Dec. 1866.]

S

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.

657

Syllabus.

The effect of this provision is decisive. N o case more
proper than the one before us, for its application, can be
presented.

The judgment below is
AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.

IOBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.
1. Parties Rtaving notice of the pendency of a suit in which they are directly
interested must exercise reasonable diligence in protecting their interests, and if instead of doing so they wilfully shut their eyes to the means
of knowledge which they know are at hand to enable them to act efficiently, they cannot subsequently turn round and evade the consequences which their own conduct and negligence have superinduced.
2. The term ,parties," as thus used, includes all who are directly interested
in the subject-matter, and who had a right to make defence, control the
proceedings, examine and cross-examine witnesses, and appeal from the
judgment.
3. Express notice to defend is not necessary in order to render a party liable
over for the amount of a judgment paid to an injured plaintiff. If the
party knew that the suit was pending, and could have defended it, he
is concluded by the judgment as to the amount of the damages. Chicago
City v. Robbins (2 Black, 418), affirmed.
4. Absence of objection by municipal officers to a person's building an area
in a public sidewalk, may infer a permission to build the area but cannot
infer a permission to leave it in a state dangerous to persons passing by.
5. A person building a storehouse on a street, who, in consequence of the
city's raising the carriage-way of the street, raises a sidewalk so as to
make it conform to the grade of the carriage-way-such person obtaining by his mode of raising the sidewalk, vaults and an area for the
benefit of his building-does not do a public work, nor relieve himself
from the penalty of making a nuisance if a nuisance is made by what
he does.
6. In a suit caused by a person's falling into an area in a public sidewalk,
a declaration charging that the defendant "dug, opened, and made,"
the area is sustained by proof that he formed it partially by excavation
and partially by raising walls.
7. 'Where work done on a public highway necessarily constitutes an obstruction or defect in the highway which renders it dangerous as a way for
travel and transportation unless properly guarded or shut out from
public use, in such case a principal for whom the work was done cannot
defeat the just claim of a niunicipal corporation which has had to pay
VOL.IV.

42

658

ROBBINS v. CHICAGO CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
damages, or of a private party who has suffered injury, by proving thdt
the work which constituted the obstruction or defect was done by an
independent contractor. Chicago City v. .Robbins (2 Black, 418), affirmed.

:ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Northern

District of

Illinois.
This was an action on the case brought by the city.of
Chicago against Robbins. The declaration alleged that the
city had by law exclusive control over the public streets and
was bound to protect them from encroachment and injury.
That Robbins owned a lot on the corner of Wells and Water
Streets, and wrongfully "dug, opened, and made" an area in
the .sidewalk adjoining, and left it so unguarded that one
Woodbury fell into it and was severely injured; that Woodbury had recovered, for his injuries, $15,000 damages against
the city, which sum the city had paid, and which, though
the city had been primarily liable for it, Robbins was bound
to refund. Plea, the general issue.
The case was this:
iRobbins owning an unimproved lot, at the southeast corner of Wells and Water Streets, in Chicago, contracted, in
February, 1856, with one Button to build a storehouse on it;
Button's principal work being the masonry, and there being
seven different contractors on the building in all, on different parts of it. The whole was under charge of an architect
appointed by Robbins, the duty of which person was to see
that the work was done according to contract.
The city had, in 1855, ordered the grade of Wells Street
to be raised about seven feet and the carrage-wayto be filled
with earth. This improvement-as Robbins wished to have
vaults to his new store-rendered necessary a curb-wall from
the natural surface of the ground to the height of the grade.
By its position-about sixteen feet from the building-this
wall would give, so far as the space beside it was covered
over (an extent of about eleven feet), a vault for storage,
and where open-as five feet would be left by another or
area-wall-an area immediately adjoining the edifice, -by
means ,of which light and air would be given to it. En-

Dec. 1866.]

D 1BBINS

V. CHICAGO CITY.

Statement of the case.

croaehments on the street to the width of five feet were
apparently allowable by the city ordinance.
In making this area there was some excavation or digging
away of the natural soil, but the testimony of Button tended
to show that what earth was thus removed was replaced by
sand and other material used in flooring the space, and that
the principal space was procured by the raising of the street
and the erection of the wall and the edifice beside it. The
depth of the space was seven or eight feet. "
By his contract, Button was to be liable for any violation of the city ordinances in obstructing -the sidewalks or
for accidents arising therefrom; but there was no specific
provision that he or any other contractor should provide
proper lights or guards. There were lamps at a bridge not
very far off, and one at an alley sixty-four feet from the
area.
Possession of the ground was given to Button on the 1st
of April, 1856, and the excavation arid walls making the
space were in effect raised some time during the spring;
the city about the same time filling the carriage-way with
earth.
Button, by the terms of his contract, was to finish his
work by the 1st September, 1856, but he. did not in fact
complete it till February, 1857. However, the sidewalkeleven feet-which was made by broad flagging stones
placed over the two walls, was finished in the autumn; thearea, which was intended to be covered with iron grating,
and which when so covered would have been thrown, in a
manner, into the sidewalk, not being as yet so covered.
In all respects, however, except this protection of grating
to passers by, the area, it seemed, was substantially finished
and ready to be covered by grating before the 19th of December. With the grating Button had nothing to do; that
being a matter, with the rest of the iron-work of the building, contracted for by another person.
From the time that the area was made until the grating
was put there, it was covered, as the whole space, before
the sidewalk was completed, by laying flagging, had been,

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

more or less by joists; the covering being sometimes very
slight, and the area-which'ran along the whole side of the
building, one hundred and fifty feet-sometimes wholly uncovered.
Robbins was in Chicago, and during the summer and
early autumn occasionally at the building. Later in the season, when ice was on tht sidewalk, the city superintendent
spoke to him about the dangerous condition of the area;
suggested a mode in which, at a small cost, it could be made
safe; telling him, at the same time, that if it happened any
time to be sleety,.and people should be passing by his building rapidly, and the covering was not attended to, somebody
would be hurt-' a neck or a leg broke'-and the city have
damages to pay.
To this Robbins replied, that it was "more the contractor's business than his," or was "wholly the contractor's
business," but that he would speak to him. Previously to
this the chief clerk of the superintendent's office, by direction of the superintendent, had written to Robbins, giving
him notice of the dangerous condition of the place; and the
clerk and superintendent, who were often in that neighborhood, and were struck with this condition, had, themselves,
once or oftener, covered it with plank. The contractor was
told about it also, and he spoke several times to his foreman
on the subject.
On Sunday evening, December 28th, 1856, the night being stormy, Woodbury, who was passing the place, and in
walking had to face the storm, fell down the area, which
had been left or had become uncovered from Saturday
night, and was severely hurt. He soon after brought suit
against the city for damages.
The city attorney, Mr. Marsh, whose duty it was to defend the suit, now applied to Robbins to assist him in procuring testimony. Robbins told him of one Livingston,
who had boarded at the same place with Woodbury at the
time of the accident, whose idea was that Woodbury's injuries were not so great as he pretended, and who would
therefore be a good witness for the city. Robbins promised

Dec. 1866.]

ROBBINS V.

CHICAGO

CITY.

661

Statement of the case.

to write to him, and afterwards informed Marsh that he had
done so. The day of the trial or the day before it, Marsh,
casually meeting Robbins at the foot of the stairway of *e
court-house, remarked to him that the suit was about to be
tried, or was coming on; but he did not tell him in what
court the suit was, nor did he ever give Robbins any notice
that the city would look to him for indemnity for what it
might have to pay Woodbury; he "never having talked with
Robbins in reference to the case with any such idea as that,"
the only object being to prepare the defence. Marsh did
not state to Robbins that he was the city attorney, but the
parties were long and intimately acquainted with each
other, meeting almost daily, and MIarsh presumed is of
course, that IRobbins knew that fact.
Woodbury recovered in his suit $15,000 damages, which
the city paid.
A provision of the city charter in force at the time when
Robbins built his area, declared that
"All owners in front of whose premises the common council
should direct sidewalks to be constructed, should make such
sidewalks at their own cost, and if not so made, that the council might make them and assess the c6st against the premises."
The controversy had already been before this tribunal,
when a judgment in favor of Robbins had been reversed.*
The court below now charged the jury, in substance, as
follows:
"The law is, that although the city is primarily liable for an
injury suffered by reason of the dangerous condition of the
streets and sidewalks, yet the corporation has a remedy over
against the party that is in fault, and has -so used the streets
and sidewalks as to produce the injury.
"The question, then, is, whether Robbins is answerable to the
city ibr the judgment recovered by Woodbury.
"If it was through the fault of Robbins that Woodbury was
injured, he is concluded by the judgment recovered against the
* Chicago City v. lobbins, 2 Black, 418.

I

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

city, if he knew that the suit was pending and could have defended it.
0" It is not necessary that the city should have given him an
express notice to defend the suit, nor is it necessary that the
city should have notified him that it would look to him for indemnity. If Marsh, the attorney for the city, told him of the
pendency of the suit, what it was for; told him of the day of
the trial, and talked to him about the testimony of a witness,
he is as much chargeable with notice as if he had been directly
told that he could contest Woodbury's right to recover, and that
the city would look to him for indemnity.
"It is not requisite that Marsh should have informed him that
he was city attorney. If IRobbins knew the fact, he did .not,
need'to be informed of it.
"It is urged that Robbins was not informed by Marsh, in
what particular court the action was pending. This was not
necessary. When iRobbins was told that Woodbury had sued
the city for fhlling into an area which he had built, then it was
his duty to have ascertained in what particular court the action
was to be tried.
"Was it through the fault of iRobbins that the accident to
Woodbury happened? The building was commenced in the
spring of 1856. The grade of Wells St'reet had been ordered to
be raised by the city, but was not actually raised until the summer of 1856. There is testimony tending to show that when
iRobbins removed the old sidewalk, which was on the natural
surface of the ground, he removed very little earth in order to
make this area. There is also testimony, tending to show that
what earth he did remove was replaced by sand and other materials, and it is contended that although he might be liable if
there were proper allegations in the declaration, yet he is not
liable in this suit, because the declaration says that he wrongfully and unjustly dug a large hole or pit, and the digging, if
any was done, did not contribute to produce the injury. But
if the declaration charges him with digging a large hole or pit,
it also charges him with opening and making one, and in the
opinion of the court it is immaterial whether the area was made.
by excavating the earth as stated by some of the witnesses, or in
the manner mentioned by Mr. Button, the contractor. IRobbins
was not in fiult in making the area so as to conform to the
grade of the city, and the city was not in ihult in permitting

Dec. 1866.]

DOBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

him to build it. IRobbins had the implied license of the city to
build the area, but no license can be presumed from the city to
leave the area open and unguarded.
"The fact that Robbins was building the area at the same
time that the city was grading the street doe3 not excuse him
or show that the city wvas in any degree delinquent. Robbins
impliedly agreed with the city that if he were permitted to
build the area for his own benefit, he would do it in such a
manner as to save the public from danger, and the city from
harm. The gravamen of the offence is not that Robbins was
engaged in an unlawful work whon he made the area, but that
he left uncovered and unprotected an area which was dangerous, and which, if left without guards to warn those who passedr
by, became a nuisance; what was originally lawful thereby became unlawful. The city cannot be held under any olligation
to supervise the building of an area like this, under the circumstances detailed in the evidence.
"If the jury believe that this area was built under the direction of Robbins and for his benefit, and that it was left unprotected, and that Woodbury, while passing along the street, fell
into it and was injured, then the jury will find the amount
Woodbury recovered against the city, with interest."
To so much of the charge as related to the notice to
Robbins of the pendency pf the suit of Woodbury against
the city, and "to so much of the charge as related to the
construction of the area," the defendant excepted.
Messrs. Kales and Beekwith, for the plaintiff in error:
I. There was error in the instructions as to the obligation
of Robbins to defend. The law on the subject of the conclusiveness on another party of a judgment like that given
against the city is this:
Where there is no request, and where the facts are only
partially communicated, it depends upon the circumstances
under which the communication is made whether the party
is charged with attending to the defence. If the circumstances were such that a prudent man might be reasonably
expected to act upon them, then the partial communication
may be considered as notice. But if from the facts commu-

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.

[Sup. t

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

nicated, and from the circumstances under which they were
communicated, a prudent man would not be expected to act
upon them, then the communication ought not to be deemed
notice; and this is more especially true when ,neither the
party 'making the communication, nor the party receiving
it, had any idea that the latter was in any manner to act by
reason of what was said.
fHere there was no notice. It should have been submitted
to the jury, whether the facts communicated-considering
the circumstances under which the communication was made
-were such as would have caused a prudent man to act.
II. The charge was erroneous in respect to the construction of the area.
The city had ordered the carriage-way of the street to be
raised and filled to the new grade, and paved, and had compelled Robbins to put up his building with reference to the
new grade. This improvement, as it progressed to completion, left the surface of the old sidewalks at this point far
below the rest of the street, thus causing a deep, vacant
space or pit around Robbins' building, on both streets.
There was really no excavation. The allegation of the
declaration that Robbins dug, opened, and made an area, is
not sustained by the proof.
IBut, independently of this point of pleading, the city had
itself created a public necessity for what Robbins did. As
the raising of the carriage-way part of the street-an improvement lawfully undertaken by the city-would, if nothing else were done, render the rest of the street occupied by
the sidewalks impassable, it became the duty of the city to
cause the sidewalks to be rebuilt. To perform this duty it
was necessary for the city officers, in the first instance, to
order IRobbins to build them, and in case he omitted to do
so, then to build them themselves, and charge him or his lot
with the expense. The erection of a curb wall necessarily
preceded the filling and paving of the carriage-ways. Robbins, in planning the improvement of his lot, knew this, and
contracted for the erection of a curb wall and sidewalk in
connection with the erection of his building. lHe had the

Dec. 1866.]

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

right to expect the city officers would order him to construct
them as soon as the city's duty to the public required the
order to be made. The erection of the curb wall was required as part of the sidewalk, and it will be presumed that
the city officers gave the proper order to Robbins. to proceed with the work. The duty of the city to cause the sidewalk to be built was absolute, though the obligation of the
mere act of building it rested upon Robbins.
Under these circumstances-and the public having a right
to require the city to cause it to be done at the time it was
performed-the work was primarily foe the ppblic benefit.
IH. When the case was here before, it appeared that IRobbins had entered into the street by but an implied license,
and the fact was regarded as important in the decision then
made; one against Robbins. It appears, now, that he entered by express authority of a statute. The case is therefore a new one.
The question then is, did Robbins perform his whole duty
when, under such circumstances, he let out to skilful and
independent contractors the execution of this work, to be
done in conformity with the plan ordained; especially as the
result, when the work was completed, conformed to what he
was authorized to do ? The following cases are decisive, to
show that he did: Gray v. Pallen (Q. B., 1863), Law Journal
Reports, N. S., vol. 82, p. 169; Blake v. _Feris(1 Selden, 48);
Painter v. Pittsburgh (46 Pennsylvania State, 213); Pack v.
Mayor (4 Selden, 222); Kdlley v. Mayor (1 Kernan, 432);
(73 English- Common Law, 867); Allen v.
Overton v. 'reeman
Hayward (7 Adolphus & Ellis, N. S., 960).
In each case above cited the party on whom the right to
do the work was conferred let out the execution of it to independent contractors; injury was occasioned to others, who
were without fault, by the negligent and improper manner
in which the execution of the work was conducted or left
during the progress of it, by the contractors' servants; the
suits wore against the employers, and they were held not
to be liable for the negligence of the contractors or their
servants.

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

The ground of decision is stated in Gray v. Pullen, where
Cockburn, C. J., announces it as "common doctrine, that if
a person in the exercise of his rights as a private individual,
or of those conferred on him by statute, employs a contractor to
do work, and the latter is guilty of negligence in doing it,
the contractor and not the employer is liable."
In the construction of a public improvement, pursuant to
a statutory right, it is as much a part of the right to intrust the execution of the work to skilful and careful contractors, as it is a part of one's individual right, in making
an improvement on his own land, to let the work in that
manner. On this subject the court, in Blake v. Ferris,say
with force:
"The impracticability and injustice of holding the express licensees who had let the work to be liable for the contractor's
negligonce, in leaving the hole in the street uncovered over night,
may be further illustrated by the common case of a man about
to build a house for himself. le may, if he please, manage the
whole, give directions, &c., &c., which his men would be bound
to follow; and thus make himself the master in fact of all the
persons employed; but, as Baron Parke said about the butcher
driving the ox, ' he is not bound to do so, and he may not know
how to do it.' He may therefore let out by contract the building of the house to some person who will undertake to do it.
Would he thereby become liable for all injuries to third persons
for negligence or misconduct in doing an act tending to the construction of the house? For instance, by the carpenter's men,
in getting out timber in the forest; by the stonecutter's servants, in blasting stone in the quarry; or by the teamsters, in
handling materials; such consequences would, indeed, shock
the common sense of all men."
Few persons possess the skill to build a house. A particular class of persons must, to a greater or less degree, be
intrusted with the execution of such a work. And the
more completely the execution of it, and the manner of
doing it, are placed by the employer in the hands of skilful
and independent contractors, the more fully has he performed his duty to the public. ie has thereby substituted

Dec. 1866.]

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.
Argument for the defendant in error.

the skilful management and independent control of another
over the work, pending its execution, in the place of his
own probable want of skill to direct.
here a person enters under an implied license to do
work for his own exclusive benefit, which appeared to be
the fact in this controversy when the case was here before,
it is a condition of such license that nothing shall be done
under it to the injury of the licensor. But when the right
springs from an express permission, or from statutory authority, no conditions are attached but those expressed; and
the obligation is different.
In this case it was pending the execution of the work, and
while the work was in the exclusive control of the contractors and their servants, and while iRobbins had no power
or authority to remove the contractors' servants from the
work, that the accident to Woodbury occurred. The omission to cover the opening properly, on Sunday night, was
never directed by IRobbins, but was the wrongful act of the
contractors' servants.
The court is bound to presume that the plan of the sidewalk, authorized by the common council, could be carefully
executed without the necessity of such a negligent omission;
and Robbins had the right, as against the city, which had
forced the plan upon him, to suppose the same thing.
Under these circumstances, if the contractor, while invested
with the control of the work, unnecessarily committed a nuisance, Robbins is not liable therefor, or for the consequences.*
Mr. El. Anthony, contra:
I. The instruction as to Bobbins's obligation to defend. Robbins was a business man, as the case shows; and no notice,
whether oral or written, could have given him any more information about the suit, or about his rights and duties in
the premises, than he possessed when informed of the com* Peachey v. Rowland, 76 English Common Law, 181; Overton V. Freeman, 73 Id. 867; Allen v. Hayward, 53 Id. 960; Reedie v; Railway Co. and
iobbit v. Railway Co., 4 Exchequer, 255; Saltonstall v. Banker, 8 Gray, 195.

ROBBINS V.

CHICAGO CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.
9

mencement of the suit, of its nature, and the claim made by
Woodbury, and of the trial of the case. Under such circumstances Robbins cannot go back of Woodbury's judgment and try the case all over.
In .Blaisdalev. Babcock,* all the'notice that ever was given
was simply a notice that a suit had been commenced; and
yet, Chancellor Kent, at that time Chief Justice, held the
judgment conclusive.t
In the Leading Cases in Equity,J Le Neve v. Le B¥ve, it
is said:
"It is not necessary in any case, to constitute notice, that it
should be in the shape of a distinct and formal communication,
and it will be implied in all cases, where a party is shown to
have had such means of informing himself as to justify the
conclusion that he might and ought to have availed himself
of them."
Again, in speaking of notice to purchasers of property:
"It should be remembered that a purchaser will have notice
whenever he has the means of knowledge, although he may
choose not to know; or, in other words, whenever it may fairly

be presumed that he either knew or remained wilfully ignorant."
Why does not the rule apply to this case? Is there any
peculiar and extenuating circumstances presented to the
court why Robbins should not be held to it?
II. The point made below as to the difference between
the proofs and the averment of the declaration is scarcely
pressed here.
It is argued, however, that Robbins was compelled to relay his sidewalk, and that the plan of doing the work had
* 1 Johnson, 519.

t See also Barney v. Dewey, 13 Johnson, 226; Kip v. Bingham, 6 Id. 158;
Waldo v. Long, 7 Id. 173; Bender v. Fremberger, 4 Dallas, 436; Leather v.
Poultney, 4 Binney, 352-376; Winter v. Schlatter, 2 lRawle, 359; Bond v.
Ward, 1 Nott & McCord, 201 ; Duffield v. Scott, 6 Tennessee, 366; Tarleton
v. Tarleton, 4 Maule & Selwyn, 20.
•1 2 Leading Cases in Equity, 160; note.

Dec. 1866.]

RoBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.
Argument for the defendant in error.

been forced upon him. The argument is that it was a
necessary work put on him by the city.
But the city never forced any plan whatever upon him.
They never designed his sidewalk, his area, or his vaults.
They never told him how or when to. build them, and
said nothing to him on that subject whatever. He formed
his own plans, began when he got ready, used his own materials, and all that can be said about the matter with any
aspect of fairness is, that the city permitted him to build up
his building, using a portion of the sidewalk as an appurtenant to his building, in order to accommodate him, and nobody else. But this very fact made it his duty to see that
he kept his vaults covered up, and his premises safe and
secure. This was what he undertook, and what the city
warned him, both verbally and in writing, to do.
]III. The question in regard to contractors is out of this
case, because1. The contracts had expired before the accident, and the
presumption of law is that Robbins was doing the work himself by employing his own workmen.
2. Robbins had an architec.t to superintend the work all
the time, and to see that the work was done according to
contract.
The doctrine pertaining to contractors cannot, for other
reasons, apply.
In Ellis v. The Sheffield Gas Consumers,* when the argument
in regard to contractors was addressed to Lord Campbell, he
said, "It would be monstrous if the party causing another to
do the thing were exempted from liability merely because
there was a contract between him and the person immediately
causing the act to be done."
IV. The charge, in view of the facts of the case, is perfect
and right. It condenses the entire evidence. The only exceptions which were taken to it are, first, to the sufficiency
of the notice of the city to Rlobbins; and second, "to the
construction of the area." The particular errors complained
* 12 Ellis & Blackburne (75 English Common Law), 169.

ROBBINS V.

C11ICAGO

CITY.

[Sup. ct.

Opinion of the court.

of are not set out, and we ought not to be made to argue in
regard to matters so indefinitely put that it requires a statement at bar to show what they mean.
V. But none of these questions ought to have bebn argued
by us. Every point raised in this case was adjudged when
the case was here before, as will be seen by reference to the
report. There is no essential difference between the case as
now coming up and as it was then presented. And, after the
language of this court, at the last term, in Minnesota Co. v.
.National Co.,* every question should be regarded as closed.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
Municipal corporations having the care and control of the
public streets within their limits are obliged by the laws of
the State of Illinois to keep the same in good repair "for
the passage of persons and property," and in case of neglect
any person receiving injury in consequence of any obstruction or defect may have an action on the case to recover
compensation for such injuries. Statutes to that effect exist
in most of the States, but the principle is now well settled
that in all cases where it appears that the obstruction or defect which occasioned the injury was caused, constructed, or
created by a third person, the corporation, if it was without
their concurrence, may have a remedy over against the party
immediately in. fault.
Severe injuries were received by one William H. Woodbury, on the twenty-eighth day of December, 1856, while
passing over Wells Street, within the limits of the plaintiff
corporation. He sued the corporation in the State court to
recover compensation for the injuries so received. Declaration alleged that the defendant in this suit was the owner
of a building lot fronting on that street; that in making improvements thereon he wrongfully excavated an area in the
sidewalk in front of his lot, and adjoining the same, of great
length, width, and depth, and wrongfully suffered it to re* 3 Wallace, 333.

Dec. 1866.]

IOBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY
Opinion of the court.

main uncovered and unguarded, so that the injured party,
while passing over the sidewalk during the night of that
day, and while in the exercise of reasonable care and prudence, fell into the excavation and was greatly injured.
Parties went to trial, in that suit at the June Term of the
court in 1857, and judgment was rendered for the plaintiff
in the sum of fifteen thousand dollars damages and costs of
suit, which the corporation was compelled to pay.
Present suit was an action on th6 case to recover of the
defendant, as the party who coustructgd, caused, or created
the obstruction or defect in the street, the amount of that
judgment and the expenses of the litigation. Gravamen of
the charge in the declaration was that the defendant made
the excavation and negligently left it open and unguarded,
and that the injury to the plaintiff in the suit against the
corporation was caused by that obstruction or defect, and
that the defendant by reason of the premises became and
was answerable over to the plaintiffs in this suit for the
amount of that judgment, and for their reasonable expenses
in defending the action. Plea was thd general issue, and
the verdict and judgment at the first trial were for the defendant. Corporation plaintiffs removed the cause into this
court by writ of error, and the judgment of the Circuit Court
was reversed and the cause remanded for a new trial. Pursuant to the mandate of this court, a new venire was issued,
'And the verdict and judgment at the second trial were for
the plaintiffs, and the defendant excepted and sued out this
writ of error.
Errors alleged at the trial, as stated in the bill of exceptions, have respect to so much of the charge of the court as
relates to the notice to the defendant of the pendency of the
suit in which the injured party recovered judgment against
the corporation, and also to so much of the charge of the
court as relates to the construction of the area described in
the declaration. Exceptions were also proposed to one of
the rulings of the court in excluding certain testimony, but
the objection appears to have been waived, as it was not
made the subject of any consideration in the argument.

ROBBINS V. OHIOAGO OITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

SI. Charge of the court in respect to the notice to the defendant of the pendency of the suit against the corporation,
presents the first question for decision. Preliminary to that
part of the charge which is the subject of complaint, the
court remarked that although municipal corporations were
primarily liable for injuries occasioned by obstructions or
defects in their streets or sidewalks, they yet might have a
remedy over against the party who was in fault, and who
had so used the street or sidewalk as to produce the injury.
Instruction was then given to the effect that if the defendant
knew that the suit was pending and could have defended it,
and it was through his fault that the party was injured, he
was concluded by the judgment recovered against the corporation. Express notice, said the presiding justice, was not
required, nor was it necessary that the officers of the corporation should have notified him that they would look to him
for indemnity. Just exception certainly cannot be taken to
those instructions, as they are in precise accordance with
what this court decided in this case when it was before
the court on the 'ormer occasion. Same principle was
adopted and applied in the case of Lovejoy v. .Aurray,* in
which the leading authorities upon the subject were collated and examined. Conclusive effect of judgments respecting the same cause of action and between the same
parties rests upon the just and expedient axiom, that it is
for the interest of the community that a limit should be opposed to the continuance of litigation, and that the same
cause of action should not be brought twice to a final determination.t
Parties in that connection include all who are directly interested in the subject-matter, and who had a right to make
defence, control the proceedings, examine and cross-examine
witnesses, and appeal from the judgment. Persons not having those rights substantially are regarded as strangers to
the cause, but all who are directly interested in the suit and
hqve knowledge 6f its pendency, and who refuse or neglect
*3 Wallace, 18.

t 2 Taylor on Evidence,

497.

Dec. 1866.]

ROBBINS
.
V. CHICAGO CITY.
Opinion of the court.

to appear and avail themselves of those rights, are equally
concluded by the proceedings.*
Evidence in the record shows that the defendant knew that
the party was injured by falling into the excavation, and that
the action against the corporation was commenced, that he
was informed of the day of trial, that he was requested to
assist in procuring testimony, and that he actually wrote to
a witness upon the subject. Testimony of the attorney of
the corporation shows that he called upon the defendant,
soon after the suit was commenced, for the purpose of finding out whether he, the defendant, knew anything about the
case which would be for the benefit of the corporation in
preparing the defence, and made inquiries of him to that
effect. Responsive to those inquiries the defendant mentioned the name of a person who was boarding at the same
place with the injured party, and whose testimony he, the
defendant, supposed would be of benefit to the corporation.
His idea was that the injuries of the party were not as great
as he pretended, and for that reason the defendant suggested
that the person named would be a good witness for the defence, and he agreed to write and get an exact statement of
what he would testify if called and examined.
Inquiry was made of the witness if he told the defendant
that he was the attorney of the corporation, and he answered
that he was not able to say; but he further testified that he
had long known the defendant, and that they were intimate
acquaintances. Same witness testified that on the day of
the trial of that case, or the day before, he met the defendant in the court-house, at the foot of the stairs, and told him
that the case was about to be tried.
Surely it cannot be doubted that the evidence justified
the instructions of the court, and, it might be added, if need
be, that it fully warranted the finding of the jury. Based
on that testimony, 'the court further instructed the jury that
if the attorney of the corporation informed the defendant of
the suit and its nature, and of the day of the trial, and con* 1 Greenleaf on Evidence, 12th ed., p. 859.
VOL. IV.

4&

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.

[Sap. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

versed with him about the testimony for the defence, he was
as much chargeable with notice as if he had been directly
told that he could contest the right of the injured party to
recover, and that the corporation would, look to him for indemnity in case of an adverse result. Argument for the
-defendant was that the notice was defective, because the attorney did not specify in what court the suit was pending,
but the presiding justice instructed the jury that when the
defendant was told that the injured party had sued the corporation for the injuries occasioned by his falling into an
area which he, the defendant, had built, then it was his duty
to have inquired and ascertained in what court the action
was to be tried. Knowledge of the pendency of the suit in
the most authentic form was brought home to him, and the
legal presumption is that he knew that he was answerable
over to the corporation, and if so, it must also be presumed
that he knew he had a right to defend the suit. Being in
the court-house on the day the trial commenced, or the day
before, and having been informed by the corporation attorney that the case was about to be heard, the defendant cannot evade the effect of the judgment upon the ground that
he did not know in which court the case was pending.
Persons notified of the pendency of a suit in which they are
directly interested must exercise reasonable diligence in protecting their interests, and if instead of doing so they wilfully shut their eyes to the means of knowledge which they
know are at hand to enable them to act efficiently, they cannot subsequently be allowed to turn round and evade the
consequences which their own conduct and negligence have
superinduced.*
"Decision of this court in this case, when it
was here before, was that express notice to the defendant to defend the
prior suit was not necessary in order to render him liable to
the corporation for the amount of the judgment paid to the
injured party; that if he knew that the suit was pending,
and could .have defended it, he was concluded by the judg*

:MAy v. Chapman, 16 Meeson & Welsby, 355.

Dec.1866.]

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO

CITY.

Opinion of the court.

ment as to the amount of the damages, and we adhere to
that rule as the settled law of the court.
H. Second exception is even more general in its terms
than the first, and might well be rejected on that account as
presenting no definite question for the decision of the court.
Statement in the bill of exceptions is that the defendant excepts to so much of the charge of the court as relates to the
construction of the area described in the declaration, and
the record shows that the part of the charge referred to fills
more than a page of the transcript, and for the most part is
merely descriptive of the circumstances under which the
area was constructed.
Purport of the description is that the defendant was engaged in erecting a large and valuable building on his lot,
fronting on the east side of Wells Street, and that he caused
an area to be constructed in the sidewalk in front of the
building, appurtenant to the same, and for its convenience
and accommodation.
Prior to that time the corporation had passed an ordinance
requiring the grade of this street to be raised, and the work
of raising the grade as ordered was accomplished during
the summer preceding the accident. Change of grade in
the street made it necessary to raise the sidewalk, so that
the defendant, in order to construct the area in front of his
building, was not obliged to make much excavation.
Declaration alleged that the place for the area was excavated, and the defendant contended that the proofs did not
sustain that allegation, as they showed that the depth of the
area was chiefly created by filling and raising the sidewalk
on each side of it, and not by excavation, as alleged.
Charge of the court was that it was immaterial whether the
depth of the area was obtained in the one or the other of
these modes, or by both, and we have no doubt the charge
was correct.
Material matter alleged and in issue was, that the defendant caused or created the obstruction or defect in the street
which occasioned the injury and wrongfully left it open and
unguarded, as alleged in the declaration; and if he did so,

IROBBINS V.

CHICAGO CITY.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

it surely was immaterial whether he constructed it by excavation or in the manner described by the contractor.
Strong effort was made to show in argument that the defendant, in constructing the area, acted under the express
orders of the corporation, and consequently that he is not
liable in this action. Theory of his counsel is, that inasmuch
as the ordinance of the corporation directed the grade of the
street to be raised, he but executed the orders of the corporation in doing the work. Suppose all that be granted, still it
is evident that it constitutes no defence to this action. His
authority to raise the sidewalk to the new grade is not contested.
Neither the ordinance nor the evidence, however, shows
that in excavating, or leaving unfilled, the place for the area,
he tcted under the directions of the corporation, or that his
acts were in any way for their benefit. Absence of objections on the part of the officers of the corporation authorize
the presumption that the defendant was not in fault in constructing the area so as to raise the surface to the even grade
of the street, and justified the charge of the court, that in
constructing it the jury might infer that he acted under
their implied license, but no license can be presumed from
that fact, or from any other evidence in the case, to leave
the area open and unguarded, which was the gravamen of
the charge in the declaration.
Instructions of the court were substantially in accordance
with those views, and were quite as favorable to the defendant as he had any right to expect.
Remarks already made show that the defendant, in constructing the area, was not constructing a public improvement for the benefit of the corporation, but was constructing
a private work exclusively for his own convenience. Attempt is made to give the work a public character, because,
in constructing the area, it became necessary to raise the
sidewalk to the new grade, but the argument is hardly
plausible, and is clearly without any solid foundation. Liability of the defendant, however, was not placed upon the
ground that he was not authorized to raise the sidewalk.

Dec. 1866.]

ROBBINS V. CHICAGO CITY.
Opinion of the court.

On the contrary, the jury were distinctly told that the gravamen of the charge was, not that the defendant was engaged
in an unlawful work when he constructed the area, but the
court placed his liability upon the ground that he left the
area open and without guards to warn those who had occasion to pass in the street, so that the work, which was originally lawful, became a nuisance and was unlawful at the
time of the injury. Correctness of that instruction, in view
of the evidence as reported in the transcript, is so manifest
that it needs no support.
Objection is also taken to the instruction in which the
court told the jury that if they believed from the evidence
that the area was built under the direction of the defendant,
and for his benefit, and that it was left open and without
guards, and that the plaintiff in the suit against the corporation, while passing al'ong the street, fell into the area and
was injured as alleged, then they would find for the plaintiff. Want of reasonable care on the part of the injured
,party was not alleged in defence or suggested in argument,
and instructions as to notice to the defendant of the pendency
of the prior suit had been previously given to the jury.
Argument for the defendant is that the instruction as to
the liability of the defendant was erroneous. He contends
that the evidence showed that the erection of the building
and all the other work, including the construction of the
area, was done by an independent contractor, and that the
owner of the land, for whose benefit the improvements were
made, is not liable in such cases for any such injuries occasioned by an obstruction or defect in the street caused or
created by the contractor or his workmen in the construction
of such improvements. Two answers may be given to that
proposition, either of which is satisfactory1. That it assumes a theory of fact which is contradicted
by the evidence.
2. That this court, in its former decision, overruled it as
applied to a case where the work contracted to be done was
itself of a character necessarily to constitute an obstruction
or defect in the street or highway requiring precautions,

ROBBINS V.

CHICAGO

CITY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

care, and oversight, to protect the traveller from danger and
injury.
1. Theory of fact assumed by the defendant is not sustained by the evidence. Seven contractors were employed
in preparing the lot, laying the foundations, erecting and
completing the building, raising the sidewalk, constructing
the area, laying th) flagstones, putting in the gratings, and
finishing the improvements. Contractor who constructed
the area finished his contract prior to the nineteenth day of
December, 1856, when he left and went away, and did not
return till after the accident.
Uncontradicted evidence was introduced that the defendant frequently visited the premises during the progress of
the work, and that the curb-wall was raised eight or nine
inches under his special directions, in the latter part of
September of that year. Both the area and curb-wall were
ready for the flagstones four months before the accident.
When the area was completed it was covered with joists,
three by twelve inches, but they were afterwards removed,
when the gratings were put down, late in the fall, and were
never properly replaced. Attention of the defendant was
several times called to the dangerous condition of the sidewalk, and the superintendent of public works gave him
notice in writing that the area was not properly covered.
He gave no heed to these repeated admonitions, but insisted
throughout that it was the sole business of the contractor,
with which he had nothing to do. Such wilful negligence
the law will never excuse.
2. Import of the decision of this court in reversing the
former judgment of the Circuit Court, and remanding the
cause for a new trial, was, that the party contracting for the
work was liable, in a case like the present, where the work
to be done necessarily constituted an obstruction or defect
in the street or highway which rendered it dangerous as a
way for travel and transportation, unless properly guarded
or shut out from public use; that in such cases the principal
for whom the work was done could not defeat the just claim
of the corporation, or of the injured party, by proving that

Dec. 1866.]

ROiBBINS V.

CHICAGO

CITY.

*679

Opinion of the court.

the work which constituted the obstruction or defect was
done by an independent contractor.
Strictly speaking, that question was not open in this case,
but the argument was allowed to proceed; and, lest there
should be a doubt upon the subject, it is proper to say that
we again affirm the proposition.
*Wherd the obstruction or defect caused or created in the
street is purely collateral to the work contracted to be done,
and is entirely the result of the wrongful acts of the contractor or his workmen, the rule is that the employer is not
liable; but where the obstruction or defect which occasioned
the injury results directly from the acts which the contractor
agrees and is authorized to do, the person who employs the
contractor and authorizes him to do those acts is equally
liable to the injured party.*
Implied authority was doubtless shown to construct the
area, if it was done with proper precautions to prevent accidents to travellers, but no authority to construct it xwithout
such precautions is proved or can be presumed; and it is
clear that in leaving it open and without guards during the
progress of the work, or after its completion, the defendant
was guilty of gross negligence, and the structure itself became unlawful. Concede that the defendant might cast the
blame on the contractor while the area was being constructed, still it is clear to a demonstration that he cannot
successfully make that answer for his own negligence after
the work was completed, and the control and oversight of
the contractor had ceased.
Looking at the case in any point of view, there is no error
in the record.
JUDGMENr AFFIRMED, WITH COSTS.
Hole v. Railway Co., 6 Hurlstone & Norman, 497; Ellis v. Gas. Cons.
Co., 2 Ellis & Blackburn, 767; Newton v. Ellis, 5 Id. 115; Lowell v. B.
& L. Railroad, 23 Pickering, 24; Storrs v. City of Utica, 17 New York,
104.

