522

COM3ISSIONER OF PATENTS V. WHITELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS V. WHITELEY.
1. Where an applicant for reissue of a patent has done all in his power to
make his application effectual-has filed his application with the acting
commissioner and paid the requisite amount of fees-the application is
to be considered as properly before the commissioner.
2. Where a statute directed the commissioner of patents to grant a reissue
of patents in certain cases, to "assignees," it is the duty of the commissioner to decide whether the applicant is an assignee with such an interest as entitled him to a reissue within the meaning of the statutory
provision on tile subject; and if he has thoroughly examined and decided that the applicant is not so, a mandamus will not lie commanding
him to refer the application to "the proper examiner or otherwise examine or cause the same to be examined according to law." The preliminary question was within the scope of his authority. If the mandamus had ordered the commissioner to allow an appeal, the order
under which it issued would have been held correct.
3. Mandamus cannot be made to perform the functions of a writ of error.
4. Semble that an applicant for a reissue of a patent under the thirteenth
section of the Patent Act of 1836, which allows a reissue in certain cases
to a patentee "and in case of his death or any assignment by him made
of the originalpatent," vests a similar right " in his executors, administrators, or assignees," must be an assignee of the "vhole interest in the
patent; and not the assignee of a sectional interest only. At least where
the commissioner of patents had thus decided, this court, on the questions being raised in connection with Gther questions, whose decision
rendered a decision on it unnecessary, say that "as at present advised
they were not prepared to say that the decision of the commissioner was
not correct."

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Whiteley, the defendant in error, was the assignee of a
sectional interest in a patent granted to Hains, on the 4th
of September, 1855, for an improvement in mowing machines. He held, by virtue of several assignments, all the
territory embraced in the patent, except the State of Ohio
and the northern half of the State of Illinois; and in all the
territory, except as just mentioned, was assignee of all the
rights of the patentee.
In 1863, lie applied to the commissioner of patents for a
reissue of the patent, according to the thirteenth section of
the Patent Act of 1836; a section which enacts that-

Dec. 1866.]

COIMISSIONER OF PATENTS v. W ITELEY.

523

Statement of the case.

"Whenever any patent, &c., shall be inoperative or invalid,
by reason of a defective or insufficient description or specification, &c., if the error has or shall have arisen by inadvertency,
accident, or mistake, &c., it shall be lawful for the commissi6ner,
upon the surrender to him of such patent, &c., to cause a new
patent to be issued to the said inventok for the same invention,
for the residue of the period then unexpired for which the original patent was granted, inf accordance with the patentee's corrected description and specification. And in case of his death,
or any acsignment by him made of the original patent, a similar
right shall vest in his executors, administrators, or assignees."
The assignees for the State of Ohio, and of the northern
half of Illinois, did not join in the application.
The commissioner of patents, after a laborious investigation of the law and comparison of various sections of the
patent acts, decided that the applicant, not being the assignee of the whole interest in the patent, was not entitled
to the reissue asked for.
Whiteley took no appeal from the commissioner's decision
to the "board of examiners," but setting forth that his application for reissue was filed with the acting commissioner,
and the refusal, petitioned the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia for a mandamus to send the application to an
examiner to be acted upon by him as though made by the patentee."
The commissioner, in reply-premising that for the reason
that the proposed applicant was not such an assignee as the
law contemplates, and that the application, therefore, was
not filed, or entered upon the books of the office, and never
had been, and that the fees required on such application,
which had been paid by the relator to the chief clerk of the
office, on the presentation of said application, had not been
placed to the credit of the patent fund, but remain in the
hands of the chief clerk, personally, and subject to the order
of the relator-replied, among other reasons, against the
mandarius:
1. That the object of it was to carry by appeal a preliminary question solely cognizable by him, to the Supreme Court
of the District, and that such a mandamus would be hugatory.

524

CoMMISSIONER OF PATENTS V. WHITELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

2. That he had decided rightly in rejecting the application, the relator not coming within the meaning of the term
"assignee," as contemplated in the thirteenth section of the
act of 1836. And in support of this view he submitted as
part of his answer a full law argument, which now came up
in the record.
The Supreme Court of the District granted the mandamus,
"commanding the commissioner of patents to refer said application to the proper examiner, or otherwise examine or cause the
same to be examined according to law." The case was now here
on writ of error, brought by the commissioner of patents, to
remove the proceeding to this court. Two principal questions were raised:
1. Supposing the decision of the commissioner to have
been erroneous, and that the assignee of a sectional interest
in a patent was entitled to a reissue, did a mandamus such as
that above mentioned lie to correct the decision ?
2. Did the commissioner, in deciding as he did, that the
applicant as owner of but a sectional interest was not entitled
to a reissue, decide correctly ?
In order to judge of the first question it is necessary to
state1. That the Patent Act of 1836, by its seventh section,
provides that on the filing of any application for a patent,
"the commissioner shall make or cause to be made an examination of the alleged new invention or discovery," and if on
such examination it does not appear that the same had been
invented or discovered by any other person, &c., he shall
issue the patent. But if,on the contrary, he shall decide
that the applicant was not the original and first inventor,
&c., and the applicant shall insist on his claim, "such applicant may on appeal have the decision of a board of examiners to
be composed of three disinterested persons who shall be appointed by the Secretary of State for that purpose," which
board shall have power "to reverse the decision of the com
missioner, either in whole or in part."
2. That by an act of 1837, in addition to the former act,
it is provided that in cases of application to the commis-

Dec. 1866.]

Co2IrIssIoxNr

OF PATENTS V. WHITELEY.

525

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

sioner for re-issue, the applicant, if dissatisfied with the decision of that officer, "shall have the same remedy and be
entitled to the same privileges and proceedings as are provided by law in the case of original applications."
31r. Foote, for the plaintiff in error, contended:
On the first point. That if the decision was erroneous it
could not be corrected in the manner in which the relator
had proceeded. The commissioner had already done just
that thing which the writ commanded him to do. He had
examined the matter very fully, and the proof of this was in
the document found in the record as the chief reply to the
application for the mandamus granted. The remedy was
appeal.
On the secondpoint. The decision of the commissioner was
believed by him to be correct; but that officer had no personal interest in the questions. All that he wished was that
it should be settled by this court. Similar questions frequently arose in the Patent Office, and it was important to
the public interest that the statute should receive an authoritative construction.
He conceded that an extension of the act to assignees of
sectional interests would be very convenient to them. That
the necessity of a reissue might be as great to them as to
the owner of the whole interest. Indeed that their rights
might be impaired and even lost for want of such a power.
But there were serious objections to such a construction
of the statute.
1st. It might lead to as many different patents for the
same invention as the patentee should grant sectional interests in it.
2d. -Upon a reissue the original patent must be surrendered.
In .lioffatt v. Garr,* this court held that a surrender of
the patent to the commissioner in judgment of law extinguishes the patent. It is a legal cancellation of it; and
* 1 Black, 273.

526

CoMMIssIoNER OF PATENTS V. WHITELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

hence can no more be a foundation for a right after the surrender than could an act of Congress which had been repealed. If the patent be cancelled by one assignee, how
could a suit be maintained upon it by another who had not
joined in the reissue ? Or if the sectional assignee did not
happen to possess the patent, how could he surrender it to
be cancelled ?
3d. The omission in the thirteenth section of the act to
mention the grantbes of sectional interests, as would be seen
on reference to it that the act does in other sections, in connection with the requirement of a surrender of the patent,
would seem to imply that it was not the intention of the act
to extend its provisions beyond the patentee and the assignee of the whole interest.
Messrs. Coombs and Fisher, contra.
So far as it was possible, Whiteley complied with all
the forms and requirements of the law. The case, therefore, presents general questions of right applicable to many
cases.
I. Has the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
jurisdiction and power to grant and enforce a "-writ of
mandamus" commanding the commissioner of patents to do
an act enjoined by law?
The writ is a remedial writ, issuing out of the King's
Bench, or other highest court of original jurisdiction; it
commands the party to whom it is directed to do his duty,
and summarily enforces its command by attachment; and
it is the appropriate remedy where the law has prescribed
no specific remedy, and where justice and good government
require one. It is based upon the principle, that there
should be a remedy to enforce every right. Without such
writ, of such general application, and of such power in terrorer, the frequent failure of justice would be intolerable.
Nowhere in the country is there so great need of the writ
of mandamus as in the District of Columbia, where all the
great departments of the general government have their

Dec. 1866.]

COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS

V.

WHITELEY.

527

Argument for the defendant in error.

offices, and where the rights of the people
infringement.
In Gr ffith v. Cochran,* a rule was granted
Secretary of the Land Office, "commanding
and deliver patents to Griffith" for certain
The court said:

are so liable to
upon Cochran,
him to prepare
tracts of land.

"Where a ministerial act is to be done, and there is no other
specific remedy, a mandamus will be granted to do the act which
is required; but where the complaint is against a person who
acts in a judicial or deliberative capacity, he may be ordered by
mandamus to proceed to do his duty, by deciding according to
the best of his judgment, but the court will not direct him in
what manner to decide. This was the principle adopted by the
Supreme Court of the lUnited States, in the case of United States
v. Lawrencet and it has been frequently recognized by this
court. If the secretary had in this case refused to make any
calculation, or take any step whereby the business of the applicant might be despatched, it would certainly have been our duty
to compel him by mandamus."
In
ndall v. United States,t in this court-the leading authority upon the question,-the court said:
"Congress has entire control over the District for every purpose of government; amd it is reasonable to suppose that, in organizing a judicial department here, all judicial power necessary
for the purposes of government would be vested in the courts
of justice. The Circuit Court here is the highest court of
original jurisdiction; and if the power to issue a mandamus in
a case like the present exists anywhere, it is vested in that
court."
In Decatur v. Pauldinq,ยง Taney, C. J., in delivering the
opinion of the court, said:
"In the case of Kendall v. United States, it was decided in this
court, that the Circuit Court for Washington County, in the
5 Binney, 103-105.
$ 12 Peters, 524.

*

- 3 Dallas, 42.
14 Id. 515.

528

COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS V. WHITELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

District of Columbia, has the power to issue a mandamus to an
officer of the Federal government commanding him to do a
ministerial act."
The act of Congress of 3d March, 1863,* which established
the Supreme Court of.the District of Colambia, in section
third, says:
"The Supreme Court organized by this act shall possess the
same powers and exercise the same jurisdiction as is now possessed and exercised by the Circuit Court of the District of
Columbia," &c.
11. Is the commissioner of patents commanded by law to
examine, or cause to be examined, a proper and lawful application for a reissue, and does the writ of mandamus lie to
enforce that command?
The relator holds, that when an application for a reissue
is made in due form of law, it is the duty of the commissioner to examine it, and take such action upon the case as
will enable the applicant to appeal from his decision if it be
unfavorable. To this the commissioner objects, that the
relator is not entitled to apply for a reissue, because he does
not own the entire patent; that the legal question involved
is preliminary, and determinable by him alone, without appeal; and refuses to put the case upon the files of the Patent Office in such form, that his refusal to grant the reissue,
would give the applicant an appeal to a Justice of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. And the object
in praying for the writ was, that the commissioner might
be compelled to "examine" this case. Before the examination can be made, the case must be duly filed, and then, iS
the commissioner refuses the patent, for any reason, we are
entitled to an appeal; but as long as the commissioner
keeps us completely out of the Patent Office, we are subject
to his will, which deprives us of the right of appeal.
The thirteenth section of the act of 1836; the eighth see* 12 Statutes at Large, 762.

Dec. 1866.]

COXIMSSIONER OF PATENTS V. _WHITELEY.

529

Argument for the defendant in error.

tion of the act of 1837, which is supplemental to it, and the
seventh section of the act of 1836, are co-active sections of
the law and command the commissioner to make, &c., an
examination.
This being the case, the writ of mandamus lies to enforce
that command.
Formerly the received idea was, that a mandamus would
lie only to command the performance of a ministerial duty;
but modern cases have gone much further, and it is now the
practice to grant the writ to command the performance by
any inferior jurisdiction or officer, of any public duty, for
which there is no specific remedy. The duty must be a
public one, though the value to the public is not scrupulously
weighed.
Adjudged cases* cover the present one, and demonstrate
the power of the court below to command and compel the
commissioner of patents "to hear the application ;" "to
exercise his discretion;" "to determine the one way or the
other;" "to put himself in motion to do the thing;" "to
proceed to do his duty," by examining, or causing to be examined, our application for a reissue, according to law.
III. Has the grantee of an exclusive territorial interest in
a patent a legal right to apply for a reissue of that patent?
In SS7az v. ooper,t the court say, "That the holder of a
defective patent may surrender it to the Department of State,
and obtain a new one, which shall have relation to the emanation of the first, was decided by this court at the last term,
in the case of Grant and Others v. _Raymond."
The word "holder" here used, it must be observed, is a
general term, and cannot be so restricted as to apply only to
one who holds the entire interest in a patent; but is equally
applicable to those who hold any exclusively territorial interest.
Moreover, the thirteenth section of the act of 1836, which
* Rex v. Bp. of Litchfield, 7 Modern, 218; Rex v. JJ. of Kent, 14 East,
220; Rex v. JJ. of North Riding, 2 Barnewall and Cresswell, 291; and
Griffith v. Cochrane, 6 Binney, 103.
t 7 Peters, 292.
$ 6 Id. 220.
VOL. IV.

34

530

COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS,.V. WHITELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

first established the reissue, as now granted, grants unto any
assignee the same right to a reissue that it grants to the
patentee. Had it been the intention of Congress to restrict
the remedy of reissue to the assignee of the whole interest,
it would have been easy to use words of limitation, or to
have used the restrictive and definite article "the" instead
of the distributive pronoun "any," before the word "assignment."
[The learned counsel followed, and replied to the argument
of the commissioner, as set forth in the opinion annexed to
his answer, and made part of the argument; contending,
also, that Whiteley was not a mere grantee of an exclusive
territorial right.]
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was brought here by a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
On the 4th of September, 1855, a patent was issued to
Jonathan Haines for an improvement in mowing machines.
On the 22d of November, 1856, Haines sold and assigned
to Ball, Aultman & Co., an exclusive right to the invention
and patent, within the limits of the State of Ohio.
On the 18th of April, 1858, upon the surrender of the
original patent by Haines, and upon his application, without
the assent of Ball, Aultman & Co., a reissue of the patent
was granted to him.
On the 15th of January, 1860, Jonathan Haines sold and
assigned to his brother, Ansel Haines, one undivided third
part of his interest in the patent.
On the 25th of January, 1860, Jonathan and Ansel Haines
sold and granted to Isaac and Wim. C. Hawley the exclusive
right to the invention and patent in certain counties in the
State of Illinois.
On the 10th of April, 1863, Ansel Haines reassigned to
Jonathan Haines all his interest in the patent.
On the 17th of April, 1863, Jonathan Haines sold and
assigned all his interest in the patent to Andrew Whiteley,
the defendant in error. Haines, at the same time, delivered

Dec. 1866.]

COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS V. WITELEY.

531

Opinion of the court.

the patent to Whiteley, in order that he might surrender it
and procure another reissue.
Ball, Aultman & Co. were applied to; but declined to concur. It does not appear that the Hawleys were advised upon
the subject.
On the 25th of January, 1863, Whiteley filed his application for a reissue in the Patent Office, in conformity
with the provisions of the thirteenth section of the act of
1836.
The commissioner of patents declined to entertain the
application, upon the ground that the applicant was only the
grantee of an exclusive sectional interest, and not of the
entire patent. He also declined to allow an appeal to be
taken from this decision. An application was thereupon
made to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia for
a writ of mandamus. That court awarded a peremptory writ,
commandifig the commissioner "to refer said application to
the proper examiner, or otherwise examine or cause the
same to be examined according to law." This writ of error
is prosecuted to reverse that order. Did the court err in
making it?
The thirteenth section of the act of 1836 declares that,
under the circumstances therein stated, "it shall be lawful
for the commissioner, upon the surrender to him of such
patent," . . . . "to cause a new patent to be issued to the
said inventor, for the same invention, for the residue of the
period then unexpired, for which the original patent was
granted, in accordance with the patentee's corrected description and specifications; and in case of his death or any assignment by him made of the original patent, a similar right
shall vest in his executors, administrators, or assigns."
The seventh section of this act provides that, on the filing
of any application for a patent and the payment of the duty
required, "the commissioner shall make, or cause to be
made, an examination of the alleged new invention or discovery," &c.
The eighth section of the act of 1837 provides, in regard

532

CoMMISSIoNrER OF PATENTS V. WHITELEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

to applications for the reissue of patents, and the decisions
of the commissioner, that "in all such cases the applicant,
if dissatisfied with such decision, shall have the same remedies, and be entitled to the benefit of the same privileges
and proceedings as are provided by law in case of original
applications for patents."
This renders it necessary to recur to the act of 1836, and

to consider carefully its provisons touching the applications
to which it relates.
Both acts should be liberally construed to meet the wise
and beneficent object of the legislature. Patentees are a
meritorious class, and all the aid and protection which the
law allows, this court will cheerfully give them.
If the commissioner should hold that a party applying
originally for a patent "was not the original and first inventor," and should decide against him upon that ground,
the applicant could undoubtedly take an appeal from his
decision. The commissioner having reached this conclusion,
would be under no obligation to go further and examine any
other question arising in the case, and it would not be
necessary to the right of appeal that he should do so.
Here an assignee applied for the reissue of a patent. It was
clearly competent for the commisioner, and it was his duty,
to decide whether the applicant was an assignee at all, and,
if so, whether he was an assignee with such an interest as
entitled him to a reissue within the meaning of the statutory
provision upon the subject. The latter question is an important one. It is as yet unsettled, and awaits an authoritative determination.
The commissioner says, in his answer to the rule, that he
could not examine the application, because none had been
filed in the Patent Office.
This position is untenable. It is averred in the petition,
and not denied in the answer-and, therefore, as in other
like cases of pleading, to be taken as conceded-that the
application was filed with the acting commissioner. It is
also admitted, in the answer, that the requisite amount of
fees had been paid by the relator, but, it is added, that it

Dec. 1866.]

COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS V. WHITELEY.

533

Opinion of the court.

had not been placed to the credit of the office, and was in
the hands of the chief clerk, subject to the relator's order.
The relator had done all in his power to make his application effectual, and had a right to consider it properly before the commissioner.
It was so. If it was not, a niandamus would clearly lie
to compel the commissioner to receive it. It was his first
duty to receive the applicati6n, whatever he might do subsequently. Without this initial step there could be no
examination, and, indeed, no rightful knowledge of the subject on his part. Examination and the exercise of judgment, with their proper fruit, were to follow, and they did
follow.
The commissioner found the question, whether the assignee was such a one as the law efititled to a reissue, lying

at the threshold of his duties? It required an answer before
he could proceed further. His decision was against the appellant. His examination of the subject was thorough, and
his conclusion is supported by an able and elaborate argument. It was made a part of his reply to the rule, and is
'found in the record.
From this decision, whether right or.wrong, the relator
had a right, under the statute, to appeal.
If the mandamus had ordered the commissioner to allow
the appeal, we should have held the order under which it
was issued to be correct. But the order was that he should
proceed to examine the application. That he had already
done. The preliminary question which he decided was as
much within the scope of his authority as any other which
could arise. Having resolved it in the negative, there was
no necessity for him to look further into the case. Entertaining such views, it would have been idle to do so. The
question was vital to the application, and its resolution was
fatal, so far as he was concerned. Only a reversal by the
tribunal of appeal could revive it, and cast upon him the
duty of further examination.
The principles of law relating to the remedy by mandamus
are well settled.

584

COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS V. WHITELEY.

[Sup.

Ct.

Opinion of the court.

It lies where there is a refusal to perform a ministerial act
involving no exercise of judgment or discretion.
It lies, also, where the exercise of judgment and discretion
are involved and the officer refuses to decide, provided that,
if he decided, the aggrieved party could have his decision
reviewed by another tribunal.
It is applicable only in these two classes of cases. It cannot be made to perform the functions of a writ of error.
In Decatur v. Paulding,* referring to an act of Congress
under which the relator in that case claimed a pension which
had been refused her by the Secretary of the 'Navy, this
court said: "If a suit should come before this court which
involved the construction of any of these laws, the court
certainly would not be bound to adopt the construction
given by any head of a department; and if they supposed
his decision to be wrong, they would of course so pronounce
their judgment. But their construction of a law must be
given in a case in which they have jurisdiction, and in which
it is their duty to interpret the act of Congress in order to
ascertain the rights of the parties in the cause before them.
The court could not entertain an appeal from the decision
of one of the secretaries, nor reverse his judgment in any
case where the law authorizes him to exercise discretion or
judgment; nor can it by mandamus act directly upon the
officer, and guide or'control his judgment or discretion in the
matters committed to his care in the ordinary discharge of
his official duties. . . The interference of courts with the
performance of the ordinary duties of the executive department of the government would be productive of nothing but
mischief, and we are quite satisfied that such a power was
never intended to be given to them."
This case, as presented to the court below, was within
neither of the categories above mentioned. The court,
therefore, erred in making the order to which the commissioner objected.
The main question passed upon by the commissioner, and
* 14 Peters, 515.

Dec. 1866.]

VO'

HOFFMAN V. CITY OF QUINCY.

585

Statement of the case.

which was supposed to underlie this case, is not before us
for consideration. If it were, as at present advised, we are
not prepared to say that the decision of the commissioner
was not correct.
The order of the court below, awarding the mandanus, is
reversed with costs, and it is ordered by this court that the
application of the relator be by that court
OVERRULED AND DISMISSED.

VON HOFFMAN

V.

CITY OF QUINOY.

1. Where a statute has authorized a municipal corporation to issue bonds
and to exercise the power of local taxation in order to pay them, and
persons have bought and paid value for bonds issued accordingly, the
power of taxation thus given is a contract within the meaning of-the
Constitution, aad cannot be withdrawn until the contract is satisfied.
The State and the corporation in such a case are equally bound.
2. A subsequently passed statute which repeals or restricts the power of
taxation so previously given, is, in so far as it affects bonds bought and
held under the circumstances mentioned, a nullity.
3. It is the duty of the corporation to impose and collect the taxes in all
respects as if the second statute had not been passed.
4. If it does not perform. this duty a mandamus will lie to compel it.

THIS case was brought up by a writ of error to the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of Illinois.
The relator filed his petition in that court, alleging, among
other things, as follows:
At the June Term, 1863, and before that time, he was
the owner and holder of certain coupons on interest notes
of the City of Quincy. They were past due and unpaid.
When issued and negotiated they were attached to certain
bonds made and delivered by that city, in payment for the
stock of the Northern Cross Railroad Company, and of the
Quincy and Toledo Railroad Company, subscribed for by

