Dec. 1866.]

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.
Syllabus.

language used, though permissive in form, is in fact peremptory. What they are empowered to do for a third person the law requires shall be done. The power is given,
not for their benefit, but for his. It is placed with the
depositary to meet the demands of right, and to prevent a
failure of justice. It is given as a remedy to those entitled
to invoke its aid, and who would otherwise be remediless.
In all such cases it is held that the intent of the legislature, which is the test, was not to devolve a mere discretion,
but to impose "a positive and absolute duty."
The line which separates this class of cases from those
which involve the exercise of a discretion, judicial in its
nature, which courts cannot control, is too obvious to require remark. This case clearly does not fall within the
latter category. *
The Circuit Court properly awarded a peremptory writ
of mandamus. We find no error in the record. The judgment below is
AFFIRMED.

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.
1. It is not required that a writ of error be allowed by a judge. It is enough
that it is issued and served by copy lodged with the clerk of the court to
which it is directed.
2. A mistake in the date of the writ of error is not important, when it is
clear that such mistake is a clerical one merely, and when, from the
judgment described and the number given to it, the party cannot be
misled.
8. A statute declared by its title to be "an act to suppress private banking,"
and making it penal to " erect, establish, institute, or put in operation,
or to issue any bills or notes for the purpose of erecting, establishing, or
putting in operation any banking institution, association, or concern,"
covers with its prohibition not only the primary steps' in establishing
and putting into operation the bank, but also the whole range of its
transactions, by which illegitimate currency is imposed on a commuThe People v. Sup. Court, 5 Wendell, 125; The People v. Sup. Court,
10 Wendell, 289; The People v. Vermilyea, 7 Cowen, 393; Hull v. Supervisors, 19 John, 260.

448

DAVIDSON v. LANIER.

[Sup.at

Statement of the case.
nity ; and contracts made in furtherance of such transactions are as void
as those made to give it original operation.
4. A bill of exchange drawn in one State upon a party in another, the
known and commnn purpose of both parties being to carry on a business declared unlawful by statute of the first State, is void as to the
drawer in the hands of a party to the bill having notice of its true character.
5. As between the parties the delivery of negotiable paper, signed and indorsed in blank, authorizes the receiver to fill it up in conformity with
the authority given him; but it does not authorize him to do more,
nor give him power to fill it up at pleasure. In a suit by the drawee
upon such paper against drawer or indorser, the burden of proof, that
an agreement as to filling up had been violated, is on the defendant;
but if he can make the proof it will avail him.

ERROR to the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Mississippi; the suit having been by
Lanier, curator of the succession of John J. Mc3\ahon, of
iNew Orleans, against Davidson, on a bill of exchange drawn.
as was alleged, by Davidson and others, and judgment hay
ing been given in favor of the plaintiff.
The case, as stated by the Chief Justice, was thus:
A statute of Tennessee, enacted in 1827, and entitled "An
act to suppress private banking," made it penal to erect, establish, institute, or put in operation, or to issue any bills or
notes for the purpose of erecting, establishing, or putting in
operation, any banking institution, association, or concern.

In January, 1856, this act being in force, several persons,
of whom one Richard M. Kirby seems to have been the principal, undertook to establish a banking association or company in Memphis, Tennessee, under cover of a charter
granted by the State of Arkansas for a corporation styled
"The Cincinnati and Little Rock Slate Company." Their
object was to issue bills for circulation as money, and use
them in the cotton trade.
About the time of the organization of the company, Kirby
visited McMahon, of whose estate the defendant in error is
curator, at New Orleans, and exhibited the charter and explained the views of the company, whereupon McMahon
agreed to act as its treasurer and linancial agent.
In pursuance of this arrangement, circulating notes of the

Dec. 1866.]

DAViDSON V. LANER.
Statement of the case.

company, to the amount of twelve thousand dollars, were
sent to McMahon, who used them, as far as he could, for
currency. He also made advances to the company by accepting and paying bills drawn on him; and, in the result,
became its creditor in a sum somewhat exceeding eleven
thousand dollars.
At the time of the arrangement with eMahon, Davidson,
the plaintiff in error, and one J. B. Ellis, were members of
the company, but afterwards withdrew. Subsequently, however, upon the request of Kirby, Davidson, with two others,
consented to sign, and Ellis consented to indorse several bills
of exchange in blank, and among them that on which the.
suit below was brought. All the bills seem to have been
addressed to P\cLahon as drawee. Shortly before, or very
soon after this transaction, H. M. True, the secretary and
treasurer of the company at Memphis, absconded, taking
with him all the cash in his possession.
There was some obscurity, and, perhaps, some contradiction of evidence in the record, as to the time and purpose of
signing and indorsing the blank bills of exchange. Kirby
stated that they were signed and indorsed before the absconding of True, to enable himself to protect the circulation of
the company. Another witness said that they were signed
and indorsed after that event, at the suggestion of Kirby, to
relieve MLc_-ahon from the consequences of True's theft; but
this witness said, also, that he only knew the object of the
bills from a statement by Kirby, made when the other parties were not present, and was not confident as to the time
of signing and indorsement.
However these things may have been, it was certain that
the bills were sent by Kirby to M\IeMahon, in July, 1856,
and were filled up some months later, after vain attempts
to obtain payment of the balance due him.
All the bills, when they went into MeMahon's hands,
seemed to have had engraved on their face the formal parts
of a bill of exchange, with the name of the place of date,
"M'[emphis, Tenn.," and the direction to the drawer, "John
J. M elMahon, New Orleans;" and all but one seemed to have
VOL. Iv.

29

[Sup. Ct.

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.
Statement of the case.

borne the words, "Exchange for $1000," in the upper left
hand corner. In other respects, as to time of date, amount
to be paid, and time of payment, they were left blank. The
one now in controversy was filled up with the date, "July
15th, 1856;" with the time of payment, "eight months after
date;" with the sum to be paid, "eight thousand nine hun-

dred and ninety-two dollars and forty-four cents;" and with
a stipulation for "eight per cent. interest from maturity until
paid." Thus filled up, the bill sued on read as follows:
Exchange for $8992.44.
"E Mmpis,

TEN-., July 15th, 1856.

"Eight months after date of this, our first of exchange (second
unpaid), pay to the order of T. B. Ellis eight thousand nine hundred and ninety-two dollars and forty-four cents, value received,
and charge the same to account of your obedient servants, with
eight per cent. interest from maturity until paid.
"JAs. R. FERGUSON,
J. LocKE,

THOMAS

J. DAVIDSON.

"To JoHN J. MCMAHON, New Orleans."
Indorsed: "J. B. ELLIS, Ripley, Miss.
RICHARD M. KIRBY."

Upon the trial, the court charged the jury, that if McMahon's object in advancing his money was to enable the
company to put into operation a banking company in violation of the laws of Tennessee, the jury must find for the
defendant; and, also, that if Me'ahon agreed with Kirby
to redeem the circulation, intending thereby to enable the
company to go into operation, and the company did go into
operation, issuing bank notes in pursuance of that agreement, then the transaction was illegal, and the plaintiff
could not recover.
But the following instructions, numbered in the record
5th, 6th, and 7th, were also given by the court:
5. "If, at the time the bills were given, the holder, McMahon, knew that the money would be used for the purpose
'of carrying on a banking company contrary to the laws of
Tennessee, and if the banking company was then in opera-

Dec. 1866.]

DAVIDSON V.

LANIER.

Argument for the defendant in error.

tion, then the consideration of the bills is not affected by
the use made of the proceeds of the bill, and the plaintiff
is entitled to recover, unless the defence is sustained on some
other ground."
6. "The signing of a bill of exchange in blank, is the
giving of the holder an unlimited authority to fill it up at
pleasure, and the party so drawing or indorsing is bound by
the act of the party filling up the same."
7. "If the bills sued on were signed in blank, and delivered
to Kirby to be sent in blank to McMahon, that would authorize him, McNahon, to fill up the bills and insert, any rate of
interest that was lawful, and the jury should flnd for the
plaintiff, unless the defence is made out and sustained on
some other ground."
It was upon these instructions, considered in connection
with the evidence, that the questions to be decided in this
case arose.
Before arguing the merits, a motion to dismiss the writ
of error was made.
The judgment of the District Court for $11,312.42 was
rendered on the 6th of June, 1860. On the 7th a writ of
error was sued out, and a copy was lodged with the clerk
of the court on the same day, and bond for supersedeas given
in double the amount of the judgment. A citation was also
issued, dated 16th April, which was served on the 14th September, 1860, and the record, with the writ of error and the
citation, was returned to the next term of this court. Another citation and apparently another writ of error, were
issued on the 7th of June. Of the last-mentioned writ and
citation there seemed to have been no service.
T]he rase was submitted in behalf of the plaintiff in error on the
record. .31r. Brent for the defendant in error:
I. Motion to dis-miss. The grounds are: because it does
not appear that the writ of error was "allowed" by the
judge, which it ought to be.*
4 Yeaton v. Lenox, 7 Peters, 221.

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.

[Sup. ot.

Argument for the defendant in error.

Because the citation returned here as the original, which
was served on the 14th September, 1860, is on its face tested
16th April, 1860 ; nearly two months prior to the judgment,
which it professes to bring up.
This citation, when served, gave notice to the defendant
in error to appear and answer a writ filed at its date (16th
April, 1860). No such writ had then been filed in this case,
nor indeed had the judgment been rendered.
It may be here stated that on the 16th April, 1860, when
this citation bears date, there was a judgment in same court
dated 5th December, 1859, being the judgment in another
case (No. 52), between the same parties, brought up to this
court in immediate sequence to this, and in principle just
like it, and it is properly described in this citation.
The appeal bond returned in this case was designed to be
a supersedeas, from the amount of its penalty, &c. In such a
case, the judge signing the citation is required to "take
good and sufficient security that the plaintiff in error shall
prosecute his suit with effbect," &c. But here it does not
appear that the judge approved the bond or exercised any
judgment touching the security. He was an attesting witness, but as such he merely authenticates the signatures.
In the case of a supersedeas appeal bond, where it does not
appear to have been taken or approved by the judge, the
writ of error must be dismissed.*
II. On the merits, or matters presented by the four instructions.
As respects the fifth and immediately preceding, or fourth
instruction, the defence rested on the statute of Tennessee.
The case shows that McMahon (on whose estate Lanier
is curator), residing in New Orleans, agreed to accept the
drafts of a banking house in Memphis, Tennessee, and that
this action is brought for the money paid in New Orleans
by Mei\ahon. The place of performance of MeMahon's
contract, therefore, was Louisiana, and its validity is to be
tested by the laws of Louisiana, and not of Tennessee.t If
* Boyce v. Grundy, 6 Peters, 777; Judiciary Act,

t

22.
Bell v. Bruen, 1 Howard, 169; Cox v. United States, 6 Peters, 172.

Dec. 1866.]

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.
Opinion of the court.

this be so, the whole defence of the plaintiff in error was inadmissible.
But the law of Tennessee manifestly intended to punish
only the parties engaged in the institution of an unincorporated association and in issuing its currency; it did not intend to prohibit the recovery of money paid in good faith
by a non-resident of that State upon the security of bills of
exchange drawn on him by individuals, and which he honored for their accommodation. The contract to pay for
money advanced upon personal security is valid, although
the occasion for this contract arose out of the illegal act.*
As respects the sixth and seventh instructions, the ground
of the assignment of error probably is that they were too
broad. We think them obviously right.
The CllflF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court,
and after stating the case went on thus:
Before proceeding to consider the questions arising on the
instructions regarded in connection with the evidence, a motion to dismiss the writ of error must be disposed of.
It is objected to the writ of error that it Was not allowed
by any judge; but this is not required. It is enough that it
was issued and served by copy lodged with the clerk of the
court to which it was directed.
It is objected to the citation that it was dated 16th April,
which was before the date of the judgment; but it is clear,
from the number which it bears, taken in connection with
the judgment it describes, that it was issued after the rendition on the 6th of June. The date must have been a mere
clerical error, and the service on the 14th of September was
regular and sufficient.
The fact that another writ of error and another citation,
not served, were issued, cannot prejudice the writ and citation which were duly issued and served.
It is also urged that the appeal bond was not approved by
the judge. But it is a fair inference, from the acts of the
i. Catts v. Phalen, 2 Howard, 376; Slaughter v. Groves, 15 Peters, 449.

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.

[Sup. CC,

Opinion of the court.

judge, in signing the citation, and in witnessing the appeal
bond, that he approved of the security. The Judiciary Act
does not, in terms, require that the judge shall put his approval of the bond in writing, nor can a writ of error be
treated as a nullity because sufficient security is not given.
This court will take care, on application, that the vights of
the defendant in error be not prejudiced by the omission,
but will not dismiss the writ except on failure to comply
with such terms as it may impose.*
The motion to dismiss in this case must be denied.
The first question upon the merits arises upon the fourth
and fifth instructions. The court had already charged in
substance that a contract in consideration of aid to be given
in putting in operation an illegal banking company in Tennessee was void. From the fifth instruction, taken in connection with those which preceded, and with the evidence,
the jury must have understood that in the judgment of the
court a contract in consideration of aid in promoting the objects and effecting the purposes of an illegal banking company, when once in operation, was valid.
We think this co'nstruction of the statute of Tennessee too
narrow. The intention of the act was declared by its title.
It was an act to suppress private banking. Its object was
the protection of the people against the evils of an unauthorized currency-than which hardly any object of legislation is more important. The currency measures all values,
and is the medium, directly or indirectly, of all exchanges.
To keep it sound, and to guard it as far as possible from
fluctuation, are among the most imperative duties and among
the most difficult problems of government.
In the construction of this act it was the duty of the court
below, as it is ours here, to give effect to its obvious intention, if that can be done without disregarding settled rules
of interpretation.
What, then, is the true sense of the prohibition to erect,
establish, institute, or put in operation any banking coin* Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheaton, 361; Catlett v. Brodie, 3 Id. 653.

:Dec. 1866.]

DAVIDSON v. ILANIER.
Opinion of the court.

pany, or to issue any bills or notes with intent or purpose to
do so ? What is meant by putting in operation or establishing a banking company? We think that this language has
a much wider import than mere commencement of business.
To establish a company for any business means complete
and permanent provision for carrying on that business, and
putting a company in operation may well include its continued as well as its first or original operation.
This construction is supported by the prohibition to issue
bills or notes. Taking the act of establishment and putting
in operation, in the restricted sense of the instructions, the
issue of circulation could not precede but must follow those
acts. The prohibition of such issues, therefore, must be
taken as proof that the legislature did not use the words in
that sense.
The emission and circulation of unauthorized notes and
bills as money was the main object and business of the company, and it was precisely this object and business which
the legislature intended to defeat and prohibit.
We must construe the act, therefore, as covering with its
penal prohibition the whole range of devices by which illegitimate currency is imposed on the community. It prohibits the use of such currency during the whole period of
the establishment of an illegal company, and applied as completely to the last as to the first step of its operations. Any
other construction would frustrate the legislative intent and
leave the great mischief, which the statute was made to prevent, wholly without restraint or check.
It was quite clear, upon the evidence, that MeMahon entered into the transaction, which resulted in the bill sued on,
in the expectation of profit from aiding the operation of the
prohibited banking company. He was engaged with its
officers and stockholders in the scheme of imposing upon
the community a prohibited aid fraudulent currency. His
name was upon its circulating bills, and his credit promoted
their circulation. His curator cannot look to the law for
remedies against his associates in this illegal undertaking.
With this view of the statute and of the evidence we can-

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

not distinguish this case from that of Brown v. Tirlcihgton,*
decided at the last term. In that case we held that notes
given for a balance found due on a settlement of accounts
with an illegal banking company, and for advances to redeem its circulation, could not be enforced in favor of a
payee who had been participant in the illegal business. The
bill in this case, in our judgment, is of the same character.
It was urged in argument that the contract we have been
considering was made in Louisiana, and not invalid by the
laws of that State. But this is not so. The bill of exchange
was made in Tennessee. It bears date at Memphis, and was
signed there; and the contract of the defendant below was
to be performed there. We by no means say that it would
be valid if made in Louisiana. It is not necessary to consider that question; the laws of Tennessee determine the
question of its validity, and we think that according to those
laws it was invalid.
In our judgment, therefore, the fifth instruction was erroneous.
The sixth and seventh instructions remain to be considered. The sixth announced, without qualification, the proposition that the holler of a bill of exchange, signed and
indorsed in blank, has unlimited authority to fill it up at
pleasure and bind the signer and indorser by his act.
This instruction cannot be sustained. The delivery of a
bill of exchange signed and indorsed in blank only authorizes the receiver, as between himself and the drawer and
indorser, to fill it up in conformity with the authority given
him. If there has been no agreement, the authority is
general; if there has, it must be pursued. The burden of
proof that there was an agreement, and that its terms have
been violated, is, in such a case, upon the defendant; but
if he can make the proof it will avail him. No person, unless authorized, either directly or by just inference from the
nature of the transaction, can fill up a blank bill for his own
benefit, nor can such a bill be enforced against the drawer
* 3 Wallace, 877.

Dec.1866.]

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.

457

Opinion of the court.

and indorser in favor of any one who takes it in bad faith;
that is, with knowledge that it has been filled up without
authority or in fraud.*
It is highly probable that the court below intended that
its instructions should be taken with this limitation; but it
was too general in its terms, and was, we think, calculated
to mislead the jury.
The seventh instruction directed the jury in substance to
find for the plaintiff if satisfied that the bill was signed in
blank and delivered to Kirby to be sent to Melcahon. It
asserted that MleSAahon had the right in the case supposed
to fill up the bill with any amount due him and make the
drawers and indorsers liable on the bill to himself.
It is doubtless true that, subject to the limitations just
stated, the delivery of a signature in blank is in gene'ral an
authority to the holder to fill it up as he thinks proper.
This rule, in its application to negotiable instruments, was
very clearly stated by Afr. Justice Clifford in The Bank of
Pittsburgh v. ieal,t as follows: "Where a party tio a negotiable instrument intrusts it to the custody of another, with
blanks not filled up, whether it be for the purpose to accommodate the person to whom it was intrusted, or to be used
for his own benefit, such negotiable instrument carries on
its face an implied authority to fill up the blanks and perfect
the instrument; and as between such party and innocent
third parties the person to whom it was so intrusted must
be deemed the agent of the party who committed such in'
strument to his custody-or in other words, it is the act of
the principal, and he is bound by it."
But the instruction before us went much further. It asserted the right of a drawee to fill up a blank bill and hold
the drawers and indorsers, and this without any other authority than such as is implied in the fact that the bill was
sent to him by the last indorser with the consent of the
other indorser and of the drawers.
* 3 Kent's Corn. 119; 10 Smedes & Marshall, 590.
- 22 Howard, 107.

DAVIDSON v. LANIER.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.
iYow it is quite clear that this fact implies no such authority. The only inference to be drawn from the circumstance that the bill was sent to MAcMahon in blank is that it
was sent to him for acceptance. The structure of the paper
excludes any other hypothesis. If, having received the bill
in blank, he had accepted it and negotiated it to a third person, without notice of facts impeaching its validity between
the antecedent parties, those parties would have been bound
to the holder. But he, as drawee, could not transfer the bill
to anybody without previous acceptance, and still less could
he treat it as an obligation to himself.
We think there was error in these instructions as well as
in the fifth.
The judgment of the District Court must, therefore, be
reversed and the cause remanded for new trial in
CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.
NoTE.-Another case, No. 52 of the Term, between the same parties, and

where the questions were the same, was disposed of in the same way.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case, also, there is a motion to dismiss the writ of
error; but, on looking into the record, we find that the writ
was duly sued out and served, bond given, citation issued
and served, and the record, with a copy of the citation and
of the writ of error, brought up and filed in this court at the
next term. There is no ground for the motion, and it is
denied.
Upon the merits the case is the same with that just decided. The suit below was upon three bills of exchange,
each for $1000; but otherwise blank as to signatures and
indorsements, which were the same as upon the bill in the
other case. The bills were sent by Kirby to MeAahon, and
were by him filled up in precisely the same manner as the
other bill.
The charges of the court were substantially the same as
in the other case, and the judgment is reversed for the same
errors, and the cause
REMANDED FOR A NEW TRIAL.

