Dec. 1866.]

BR0WN V. WILEY.
Syllabus.

mining the jurisdictional sum or amount it is obvious that
neither interest on the judgment nor costs of suit can enter
into the computation, for costs form no part of the matter in
dispute, and interest on the T'udgment can only arise after
rendition, while the jurisdictional amount, if determined by
the judgment, is fixed, at rendition. And this was settled in
Knapp v. Banles.* In that case some expressions in the
opinion and in the order seem to support the idea that if the
amount of the matter in controversy is precisely two thousand dollars a writ of error will lie. But the attention of the
court was not directed to such a case, and we are not aware
that such a case until now was ever before the court. But
there is nothing doubtful in the rules applicable to it. This
court has no appellate jurisdiction, except such as is defined
by Congress. The act of Congress limits this jurisdiction
to cases where the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand
dollars. We can no more take jurisdiction where the matter does not exceed than we can where it is less than that
sum. The amount in controversy in the case before us,
ascertained in conformity with the settled principles of
the court, does not exceed two .thousand dollars. 'We
have, therefore, no jurisdiction of the writ of error, and it
must be
DISMISSED.

BRowN v. WILEY.
1. Under the act of March 3d, 1863, establishing the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, the action of that court can be examined here in
no case in which like action in the Circuit Court of the district, whose
place it supplies, could not be re-examined.
2. Hence, it can be examined only in those cases where there has been a final
judgment, order, or decree.
3. The certificate of the finding of a jury on certain issues involving paternity, marriage, and legitimacy, sent from the Orphans' Court to the
Supreme Court of the district, which certificate of finding is transmitted
* 2 Howard, 73.

BROWN v..

WILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
by the Supreme Court to the Orphans' Court, is not such a final judgment, order, or decree as this court can re-examine on error.
4. Nor where the finding of the jury was at special term held by a single
judge of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, under instructions by such judge, and a motion for new trial on exception to such
instructions and other grounds has been heard at general term by all
the judges and overruled, is such overruling a Anal judgment, order, or
decree, reviewable on writ of error by this court.

was filed in the Orphans' Court of the District
of Columbia, by John Wiley and Emily his wife, setting
forth that the said Emily was the child of Tillotson Brown,
deceased, and his sole beir and distributee; that her mother,
Elizabeth Brown, the widow of the said Tillotson, had duly
administered upon his estate; that a surplus was left in her
hands from the assets of the estate, and praying that such
portion of the same as the petitioner was entitled to might
be paid over to her.
Marshall Brown filed an answer to the petition, setting
forth that he was the brother of said Tillotson, and alleging
that the said Tillotson was never married to the said Elizabeth Brown, and that if he ever was so married, the peti-A PETITION

tioner, Emily Wiley, was not his child.

Thereupon the Orphans' Court, on the 10th of February,
1863, sent the following issues to the Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia:
1st. Whether the petitioner, Emily Wiley, was the child
of "the said Tillotson?
2d. Whether the said Tillotson was ever married to the
mother of said Emily?
3d. Whether, after the said marriage, the said Tillotson
ever acknowledged the said Emily to be his child?
After this, that is to say, March 3d, 1863, an act of Congress abolished the Circuit Court, and established in its stead
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.*
The issues were submitted to a jury, at a special term of
this Supreme Court, November, A.D. 1865, and a verdict
rendered thereon in the affirmative on all the questions.
* 12 Stat. at Large, 763.

Dec. 1866.]

BROWN V. -WILEY.
Statement of the case.

A motion for a new-trial was made, on exceptions taken
at the trial, which was heard before all the four judges at a
general term of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in the manner prescribed by the statute constituting the court.* The motion was overruled, and the cause
remanded with directions that the same should be proceeded
in according to law.
Thereupon an order was entered by the court, before
which the issues had been tried, directing that the finding
of the jury on the issues sent from the Orphans' Court be
certified by the clerk to said Orphans' Court.
The writ of error in this case was sued out, that the foregoing order might be brought up to this court.
It is proper here to remark that, by the eleventh section of
the act of March 3d, 1863, abolishing the Circuit Court of
the district, and establishing in its stead the Supreme Court,
"an9y final judgment, order, or decree of said court may be reexamined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme Court

of the United States, upon writ of error or appeal, in the
same cases and in like manner as is now provided by law in reference to final judgments, orders, or decrees of the Circuit

Court of the United States for the District of Columbia;" and
that in the Circuit Court referred to, as was provided by the
law establishing it (an act of 1801), " anyfinaljudgment, order,
or decree,"... wherein the matter in dispute exceeded the
value of $100, might "be re-examined, reversed, or affirmed
in this court." It may also be mentioned, that by the eighth
section of the act of 1863, it is enacted, "that if upon the
trial of any cause an exception betaken,... it may be stated

in Nwriting in a case, or in a bill of exceptions, with so much
of the evidence as may be material to the questions to be
raised. .

.

. The justice who tries the cause may in his dis-

cretion entertain a motion to set aside a verdict and grant a
The Supreme Court of the district, by the act constitutipg it, had four
justices, before any one of whom any issues of fact triable by a court or jury
might be tried ( 7), it being enacted ( 9), "that a motion for a new trial,
&c., shall be heard, in the first instance, at a general term;" or court in
bane.

BRoWx v. WILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the jurisdiction.

new trial, upon exceptions, or for insufficient evidence, or
for excessive damaoes."
A motion having been previously made and argued by
Mr. Bradley, for a certiorarito supply an alleged diminution
,of the record, and by Mr. Olerriek, contra-Messrs.Brent and
Merrick now moved to dismiss the case for want of jurisdic-

tion.
In support of the motion. The right of appeal from the Supreme Court of the district- is no greater under the act of
1863 constituting it, than was the right of appeal from the
old Circuit Court, under the act of 1801, constituting it.
In either case the writ of error lay only to "afinaljudgment,
order, or decree." Now, the matter in contest in the Orphans' Court was the right to a certain surplus. The suit
between the parties has to remain pending until a decree in
the Orphans' Court is pronounced, giving it to one party or to
the other. The certificate from the Supreme Court is nothing more than evidence of the finding of a jury upon the
trial of the issue. It but certifies a fact; that is to say, that
the jury had so found. The case is like Van .ess v. Van,
Ness.,* A.D. 1848, in which,-on an issue sent out of the Orphans' Court to the old Circuit Court, whose place the. Supreme Court of the district supplies, to ascertain whether a
certain Mary Ann Van Ness was the wife of J. P. Van Ness,
a case, therefore, much like this,-Tauey, C. J., says: "The
order of the Circuit Court directing a fact to be certified to
another court to enable it to proceed to judgment, can hardly
be 'egarded as a judgment order or decree, in the legal sense
of these terms as used by the act of Congress. Certainly, it
is not a final judgment; for it does not put an end to the
suit in the Orphans' Court, as that court alone can dismiss
the petition of the plaintiff which is there pending; and no
other court has the power to pass a judgment upon it."
Messrs. Bradley and Davidge contra:
Neither the act of 1801 nor of 1863 requires the final judg"6 Howard, 62.

Dec. 1866.]

BR1OWN V. "WILEY.
Argument against the jurisdiction.

ment or order to be rendered in a suit pending in a court as
required by the Judiciary Act of 1789, ยง 22. Whilst under
that act only final judgments or decrees can be re-examined,
the jurisdiction as respects this district is broader and embraces all final judgments, orders, or decrees.
The only matters in controversy in the Orphans' Court
were those embraced in the issues sent for trial into the court
below. The verdict of the jury destroyed the claim of Marshall Brown to the succession.
The judgm'ent of the Supreme Court of this district, overruling the exceptions and remanding the cause to the judge
holding .the Circuit Court to be proceeded in according to
law, was, in substance, a judgment or order that the certificate should issue. The inferior tribunal had no discretion.
There is a judgment to the effect that there is no error in
the exceptions, and ordering the issue, by a subordinate tribunal, of a certificate to another court, upon receipt of which,
that court must pronounce a judgment which destroys the
claim of the plaintiff in error.
Such a judgment is a final judgment or order within the
meaning of the act of February 27th, 1801.
As the law stood when Van Xess v. Van Ness was tried,
the Circuit Court had not the power to enter judgment. It
could, after the verdict was rendered, grant a' new trial, but
it could do nothing more. A new trial was not applied
for; but, had it been, a mere application to the discretion
of the court would not have supported a writ of error.*
The Circuit Court had no power to do more than certify
the finding of the jury. That really was no judgment or
order in any legal sense. It was simply a certificate of a
physical fact of record, and is so treated in Van Ness v. Van
Ress.
By the eighth section of the act of 1865, at the trial of any
cause, the right to except is allowed. And under that clause
the right to a new trial is absolute, if any exception be sustained. The right is not addressed to the discretion of the
* Sparrow v. Strong, B Wallace, 97-105.

BROWN V. WILEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

court. To put any such construction upon it, would necessarily destroy the right of appeal to this court.
The distinction, then, between Van Ness v. Van INess and
the present case is, that in the former the Circuit Court had
no control over the verdict, save simply to grant, in its discretion, a new trial, which was never applied for; and the
refusal to grant which, if asked, could not support a writ of
error. Whilst in this case the verdict was in the keeping
of the Supreme Court of the district, whose duty it was, for
any error duly excepted to at the trial, to order a venire de
novo.
Any other construction of the first clause of the eighth
section of the act of March 3, 1863, would deprive a party
aggrieved of redress of writ of error from this court, which
was not the intention of Congress, and expressly declared
by the eleventh section of that act.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause is before us upon a motion to dismiss the writ
of error.
On the 10th of February, 1863, certain issues of fact were
sent by the Orphans' Court of Washington County, District
of Columbia, to the Circuit Court of the district to be tried
by a jury.
These issues were transferred,.by the act of Congress of
March 3, 1863, to the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia, and were brought to trial in November, 1865,
before that court, held by a single judge, in special term.
All the issues were determined in the affirmative by the
jury,- under the rulings of the judge. Exceptions were taken
to the rulings, and a motion for new trial was made in general term, before all the judges, and was overruled. Subsequently, an order was made at special term certifying the
finding of the jury on the issues to the Orphans' Court.
The record of these proceedings is brought here by writ
of error.
The case, in almost every particular, is identical with that

Dec. 1866.]

866.] v. W~iLry.
Dec.
BRowx
Opinion of the court.

of Van N ess v. Van Ness.* In that case, as in this, an issue
of fact was sent out of the Orphans' Court to the Circuit
Court to be tried by a jury; was tried and found in the negative. Exceptions were taken to the rulings upon the trial,
and an order was made certifying the finding to the Orphans'
Court. The proceeding was brought into this court by writ
of error, which was dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
It is true that in the case before us the exceptions were
taken to the rulings at special term; and that a motion for
new trial was heard at general term, and was denied, whereas
it does not appear that there was any motion for new trial in
the case of Van Ness, and it was insisted in argument that
this difference in proceeding distinguishes the two cases, so
that the latter cannot be regarded as an authority in the
decision of the former.
We are unable to perceive that the diference is material.
The order certifying the finding to the Orphans' Court, in
the case of Van Ness, was identical in effect with the two
orders overruling the motion for new trial, and certifying
the finding in the case before us. In each case the exceptions taken at the trial before the jury were overruled, and
nothing was left for action in the court before which the
issues were tried; but the cause went to the Orphans' Court
for final judgment.
In that case it was held that the order was not one which
could, under the act, be re-examined on -writ of error, and
we see no reason for a different ruling in this.
It was argued that the act organizing the Supreme Court
of the district gives this court jurisdiction of this case by
writ of error. We do not think so. That act expressly provides that any final judgment, order, and decree of the District Supreme Court may be re-examined upon writ of error
or appeal, "in the same cases and in like manner as provided by law in reference to the final judgments, orders, and
decrees of the District Circuit Court." It is clear, therefore,
that the action of the former court can be re-examined here
* 6 Howard, 62.

LOCKE v. NEW ORLEANS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

in no case in which like action in the latter court could not

be re-examined.
The only real difference between the two statutes is that
the latter gives an appeal from a decision of the single judge
at special term, on a motion for new trial, to the whole court
at general term, or secures an original hearing of the motion
in general term. This is an advantage to the unsuccessful
party not formerly enjoyed, but it makes no changes as to
re-examination upon appeals or writs of error in this court.
The court has considered the motion for a certiorarito supply alleged defects in the record; but, after a careful comparison of the suggestions of counsel with the record before
us, and the act establishing the Supreme Court for the
District of Columbia-, we are satisfied that the granting of
the motion would avail nothing to the plaintiff in error.
It must, therefor&, be overruled. And the writ of error
must be
DISmISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

LOCKE v. NEw ORLEANS.
1. A statute which simply authorizes the imposition of a tax according to a
previous assessment is not retrospective.
2. Every retrospective act is not necessarily an expostfacto law.
3. Such laws embrace only such as impose"or affect penalties or forfeitures.

TiE legislature of Louisiana enacted, A. D. 1850"That each of the municipalities of said city shall be and is
hereby empowered to levy a tax on capital on the assessment
roll for the year 1848, and a tax on capital on the assessment
roll for the year 1849: -Provided,that the taxes on capital on said
assessment rolls, for the years 1848 and 1849, shall not exceed
the amounts already imposed by existing ordinances of the said
municipalities."
Under the authority of this act the City of New Orleans,
having levied a tax on capital owned and employed during

