Dec. 1866.]

PURCELL V. MINER.
Statement of the case.

the damages, but the objection is without merit and is hereby
overruled. Decision of the District Court in the case of the
cross-libel was also correct.
Decree of the Circuit Court
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS IN BOTH CASES.

PURCELL V. MINER.
A contract for the exchange of lands is as much within the statute of
frauds as a contract for their sale, and a party seeking to enforce a specific execution of a parol contract for that purpose, must bring himself
within the same conditions, before he can invoke the aid of a court of
equity.
That is to say, he must make full, satisfactory, and indubitable proofFirst. Of the contract, and of its terms; a proof which must show a contract leaving no jus deliberandi,or locus ponitentice; and which cannot
be made out by mere hearsay, or by evidence of the declarations of a
party to mere strangers to the transaction, in chance conversation.
Second. That the consideration has been paid or tendered. And even the
payment of the price in part or in whole, will not, of itself, be sufficient
for the interference of a court of equity, if the party have a sufficient
remedy at law to recover back the money.
Tird. That there has been such a part-performance of the contract that
its rescission would be a fraud on the other party, and could not be fully
compensated by recovery of damages in a court of law.
Fourth. That delivery of possession has been made in pursuance of the
contract, and acquiesced in by the other party; a requisition which is
not satisfied by proof of a scrambling and litigious possession.

filed a bill against Coleman, Miner and wife, and
others, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
where the statute of frauds-enacting that alt estates in
lands made by parol only and not put in writing and signed
by the parties making the same shall have the force and
effect of estates at will only-is in force. The bill set forth
that Coleman having a house in Washington, and he, Purcell, a farm in Virginia, "a trade" had been made between
them; and the-possession and key of the house delivered to
him by Coleman, and full payment admitted by Coleman's
PURCELL

VOL. IV.

33

PURCELL V. MINER.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

receiving the farm, the title of which he had examined, and
"the trade" closed; and that Coleman bad requested the
complainant to, prepare both deeds; that Purcell had done
so, and had tendered and was now ready to tender to Coleman a deed for the farm according to the contract.
The bill then went on:
"Your orator farther avers that several weeks thereafter, to
his great surprise, about the time he bad commenced improving
the house for the purpose of placing a tenant in it, the said
Coleman, in the night-time, entered the back way, by means of
a ladder, and took from the back door the key on the inside of
said house, and held forcible possession of the same until he was
found guilty of the charge by two justices, after hearing all the
testimony and having the aid of two counsel. That the said
Coleman then delivered the key to your orator, and stated in
the presence of several gentlemen that the change of property
was fair; that he knew its condition before trading, in relation
to its value and title; that it was advantageous to. him, but that
his wife had a few days previous refused to go with him to the
said farm, and that was his only reason for his unlawful conduct, and that he would not do it again, and that he would pay
all the costs in the case, which he has failed to do.
"Your orator further avers that notwithstanding the key,
possession, and equitable title being with your orator, and that
he had actually prepared a bill in equity to compel said Coleman to make him a deed for the house and lot, and was about
to file it, that to his great surprise it appeared that on the 9th
Mareh, 1861, one Miner had entered into a conditional contract
with the said Coleman for the house and lot, and obtained a
deed for the same in the name of his wife; the said Miner well
knowing at the time he made the conditional contract with the
said Coleman that your orator was entitled to the equitable
estate in said house and lot, as well as the peaceable and lawful
possession of the same; that the said Miner, in order to get possession of the house, in the absence of your orator prepared a
false key and entered it, first having torn down the printed advertisement from the door showing the house was for rent by
your orator. And that your orator had again to incur the expense, loss of time, and annoyance of prosecuting the writ of

Dec. 1866.]

Dec. 866.]PURCELL
V. MINER.
Statement of the case.

forcible entry, and the said Miner was found guilty as charged,
and fined fifty dollars.
"Your orator further avers that the said Miner stated to your
orator in the presence of several gentlemen that it was not
necessary to make him a party to the suit to compel the legal
title; that if your orator succeeded against said Coleman, that
said Coleman was to convey back to him or his wife the land in
Virginia, which he had conveyed to said Coleman for the hou,
and lot referred to, thereby showing that their pretended exchange was entirely depending on the right of your orator to
the said house and lot, which is still in your orator's possession,
but owing to the annoyance, by said Coleman and Miner, he
has been unable to rent it.
"Your orator further avers that it is impossible to place your
orator and the said Coleman in the same situation they were in
before they exchanged property, because the said Coleman not
having given attention to the farm, a barn has been destroyed,
and also much of the fencing, as your orator has been informed
and believes, and that he has been at expense in repairing the
house and lot, &c."
The bill prayed a specific performance of the contract
set up.
The bill was answered by Miner, denying, &c., and set out
that Miner also having a farm in Virginia, he and Coleman
had agreed on and actually consummated a hondfide and unconditional exchange of the house for it.
The answer then thus went on:
"This defendant further says, that soon after the execution
of said deed to his said wife he took possession of the premises
(as this defendant was authorized to do as the property of his
wife) in a peaceable, quiet, and proper manner, and that he met
upon the street a locksmith, who unlocked the front door of
said house and sold this defendant a key. Some days subsequently the said complainant demanded of this defendant the
possession of said house and lot, which demand this defendant
refused to comply with. The next day the complainant came
to the premises with a large number of officers and two justices
of the peace, and in their presence again demanded possession

PURCELL V. MINER.

[Sup. t

Argument for the appellant.
of the house and lot, which this defendant again refused to
grant, but being requested by said justices, he opened the door
and allowed them to enter. The said justices immediately proceeded to try the question of possession, and, to the utter surprise and astonishment of this defendant, imposed a fine for
withholding from the said complainant the possession of the
said house and lot. This defendant requested. the said complainant to show his title to the said house and lot which he claimed,
and the said complainant exhibited some papers, but none of
them were signed by said Coleman, nor were they of any cons~quence in reference to the support of his pretended claim of
title. This defendant immediately called upon Coleman and related to him the circumstances in reference to the claim upon
the house and lot set up by the complainant, and was informed
by Coleman that the complainant had no claim upon the said
house and lot, but admitted that they bad been negotiating for
an exchange of properties, and while the negotiations were
going on, he, the said Coleman, learned that the farm in Virginia that said complainant had offered him for said house and
lot did not belong to the said complainant, and that he could
not give him, the said Coleman, a clear title thereto, and consequently that he, the said Coleman, had declined closing any
contract with said complainant."
Mrs. Miner did not answer, but made default. A good
deal of testimony was taken, many of the interrogatoriesthe parties managing their own case-being of a most leading character.
The court below dismissed the bill, and the case was now
here on appeal.
JBlessrs. Brent and .ierrick,for the appellant, Parcell:
At a moment when the complainant was entitled to a
decree pro confesso against M'Nrs. Miner, the recipient of Coleman's title, the court dismissed the bill.
The statute of frauds is not relied on or intimated in the
answer of defendants; but if it had been, it would not apply
in this case. The giving possession is part performance.*
* Stewart v. Dent (N. & S.), 4th July, 1786; Simmons v. Hill, 4 Harris
& McHenry, 252.

Dec. 1866.]

PURCELL V.

'IINER.

Opinion of the court.

The possession being mutually given and taken by the
parties, entitled the appellant to a specific performance of
the agreement.* An exchange will be specifically decreed.t
.XFr. liner, pro se, contra.
Mr. Justice GRTER delivered the opinion of the court.
A contract for the exchange of lands is as much within
the statute of frauds as a contract for their sale, and a party
seeking to enforce a specific execution of a parol contract for
that purpose, must bring himself within the same conditions
before he can invoke the aid of a court of equity. The statute, which requires such contracts to be in writing, is equally

binding on courts of equity as courts of law. Every day's
experience more fully demonstrates that this statute was
founded in wisdom, and absolutely necessary to preserve the
title to real property from the chances, the uncertainty, and
the fraud attending the admission of parol testimony. It
has been often regretted by judges that courts of equity have
not required as rigid an execution of the statute as courts
of law.
evertheless, courts of equity have, in many instances,
relaxed the rigid requirements of the statute; but it has
always been done for the purposes of hindering the statute
made to prevent frauds from becoming the instrument of
fraud.
A mere breach of a parol promise will not make a case
for the interference of a chancellor. It is plain that a party
who claims such interference has the burden of proof thrown

on him. He knows that the law requires written evidence
of such contracts, in order -to their validity. He has acted
with great negligence and folly who has paid his money without getting his deed. When he requests a court to interfere
for him, and save him from the consequences of his own
disregard of the law, he should be held rigidly to full, satisfactory, and indubitable proofFirst. Of the contract, and of its terms. Such proof
* Boon v. Chiles, 10 Peters, 177.

t Mclver v. Kyger, 3 Wheaton, 63.

PURCELL V. MINER.

[SUP. Ct.

Opinioni of the court.

must be clear, definite, and conclusive, and must show a
contract, leaving no jus deliberandi, or locus pomilentice. It
cannot be made out by mere hearsay, or evidence of the
declarations of a party to mere strangers to the transaction,
in chance conversation, which the witness had no reason
to recollect from interest in the subject-matter, which may
have been imperfectly heard, or inaccurately remembered,
perverted, or altogether fabricated; tdstimony, therefore,
impossible to-be contradicted.
Second. That the consideration has been paid or tendered.
But the mere payment of the price, in part or in whole, will
not, of itself, be sufficient for the interference of a court of
equity, the party having a sufficient remedy at law to recover
back the money.
Third. Such a part performance of the contract that its
rescission would be a fraud on the other party, and could not
be fully comiipensated by recovery of damages in a court
of law.
Fourth. That delivery of possession has been made in
pursuance of the contract, and acquiesced in by the other
party. This will not be satisfied by proof of a scrambling
and litigious possession.
The application of these principles to the case before us
will show that the plaintiff has wholly failed to establish a
case proper for the interference of a court of equity.
We do not think it necessary to a vindication of our judgment to give a history either of the pleadings or evidence
disclosed by the record. The case appears to have been
carried on by the parties propriO persond, who are excusable for their ignorance of all the rules of pleading and
practice in a court of chancery, or the proper mode of taking testimony. The merits of the case seem to have been
tried in a verbal wrangle before two justices, and afterwards
converted into a written one for the consideration of the
court.
Taking the complainant's bill to be a correct statement
of the facts, he has shown no case for the interference of
the court. By his statement, the contract was not intended

Dec. 1866.]

PURCELL V). MINER.
Application of petitioner.

to be left in parol; but when the parties had each examined
the properties proposed to be exchanged, they contemplated
to come together and perfect the exchange. If either party
had delivered a deed, in execution of the "trade" or bargain,
and the other refused to fulfil his part, by making a proper
conveyance, or if valuable improvements had been made by
the party in possession, there would have been a case for a
decree of specific execution. As it was, the defendant declined to go on with the "trade," alleging that the plaintiff's
farm was incumbered. He had given the key of the house
to the complainant, which was set up as a delivery of possession, while the defendant denied any intention to make
such delivery, and took forcible possession of his house.
While this contest about the possession was going on, the
defendant sold his house, and conveyed it to the wife of his
counsel, who carried on the litigation for him before the
justices, and here.
The bill must fail1. For want of clear, definite, and conclusive proofs of the
contract.
2. For want of any delivery of peaceful and uninterrupted
possession.
3. Or of valuable improvements niade.
We find no part execution on either side, nor anything
but a breach of promise, and a consequent quarrel before
the contract of exchange was executed.
IDECREE AFFIRMED.
NOTE.
SAME V. SAME.
AFTER the decision above made, the complainant, Purcell,
asked leave of this court to file a petition for a bill of review in
the court below. He had already asked in that'court, leave to
file such a petition; but the leave was not granted.

The petition asked the leave on two grounds.
The first ground consisted in the material evidence which it

PURCELL V. MINER.[SpCt

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

was said could be given by Purcell himself, he being rendered
competent to testify in his own behalf since the final decree in
March, 1864, by the act of Congress of 2d July, 1864, which, for
the first time, enabled parties tb testify in their own cases. And
it being alleged that the new evidence which he would be able
to give would establish,1st. The clear and definite terms of the contract of exchange.
2d. Part performance of the verbal contract, by each party
taking possession of the exchanged property in execution of the
contract, and by improvements made.
3d. The tender of a deed of conveyance from the petitioner
to Coleman, and his refusal to accept it.
All which facts it was alleged were in the exclusive knowledge
of the petitioner.
Besides this new evidence, the petition set forth newly discovered evidence by one Calvert, and others, tending to show
distinct and unequivocal acts of possession, by Coleman, of the
farm in Virginia, and his improvements thereon unde; and in
pursuance of the contract of exchange.
lfessrs. Brent and 3llerrick,for the petitioner.
By the new evidence the right of complainant to specific performance would be made out.*
In addition there was error in law,-since the legal title had
passed to Mrs. Mincr,-in not decreeing against her, pro confesso, under the rules of this court adopted by the court below.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
We have just decided this case and affirmed the judgment below, because by the complainant's own statement in his bill he
has shown no sufficient grounds for a court of equity to grant
him the relief sought. We will not repeat the points there decided. The case was too plain to leave any possible doubt respecting the correctness of our decision. Moreover, the record
showed an application made in the court below, before the appeal to this court, for a bill of review, which was decided by
this court to-have been properly refused. But it seems that the
appellant is not satisfied with the judgment of' the court, and
*:Story's Eq. Plead.,

412-418; 3 Daniels' Ch. Prac, 1738, side paging.

Dec. 1866.]

PURCELL V.

TI-NER.

Opinion of the court.

now makes an application to the court for leave to file another
bill of review in the court below.
We have no doubt that the complainant honestly believes
that he has been greatly wronged by the defendant below, who
has taken the liberty of breaking his promise with regard to a
parol contract for an exchange of property with the complainant; but we had supposed that in the opinion just delivered, we
had shown clearly to the satisfaction of any person who did not
suffer under some obliquity of mental vision, that by his own
statement of his case, the complainant had mistakeii his remedy;
and that although he may have suffered a wrong by the defendant's want of good faith, he had not presented a case which required a court of equity to disregard the statute of frauds, because it had been used for the purpose of committing a fraud.
As if a party to a contract of exchange had received a deed and
kept the land; refusing to give a conveyance for the land given
in exchange.
But in this case there was nothing shown but a breach of
promise and a scrambling possession, followed by litigation.
The present application shows more perseverance and faith in
the applicant than discretion or judgment; and presents not
a single feature of a case proper for a bill of review.
By Lord Chancellor Bacon's rules, it was declared: "No bill
of review shall be admitted except it contain either error in law
appearing in the body of the decree without further examination of matters in fact, or some new matter which hath arisen
in time after the decree; and not on any new proof which
might have been used when the decree was made. Nevertheless, upon new proof that is come to light after the decree was
made, which could not possibly have been used at the time
when the decree passed, a bill of review may be granted by the
special license of the court and not otherwise."
We will not put ourselves in the position of seriously noticing
the reasons offered for a review of this case. Suffice it to say
that the petitioner has not presented a single feature of a case
within the rules. He offers no new evidence, but what he might
as well have produced b6fore, and which, if it had been produced,
would not have justified a decree in his favor.
MOTION DENIED.

