Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.

888

Syllabus.

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

1. The act of Congress of January 24th, 1865, providing that after its passage no person shall be admitted as an attorney and counsellor to the
bar of the Supreme Court, and, after March 4th, 1865, to the bar of any
Circuit .r District Court of the United States, or Court of Claims, or be
allowed to appear and be heard by virtue of any previous admission, or
any special power of attorney, unless he shall have first taken and subscribed the oath prescribed in the act of July 2d, 1862-which latter act
requires the affiant to swear or affirm that he has never voluntarily
borne arms against the United States since he has been a citizen thereof;
that he has voluntarily given no aid, countenance, counsel, or encouragement to persons engaged in armed hostility thereto; that he has
neither sought nor accepted, nor attempted to exercise the functions of
any office whatever, under any authority or pretended authority in hostility to the United States; and that he has not yielded a voluntary support to any pretended government, authority, powet, or constitution
within the United States, hostile or inimical thereto-operates as a
legislative decree excluding from the practice of the law in the courts
of the United States all parties who have offended in any of the particulars enumerated.
2. Exclusion from the practice of the law in the Federal courts, or from
any of the ordinary avocations of life for past condact is punishment
for such conduct. The exaction of the oath is the mode provided for
ascertaining the parties upon whom the act is intended to operate.
3. The act being of this character partakes of the nature of a bill of pains
and penalties, and is subject to the constitutional inhibition against the
passage of bills of attainder, under which general designation bills of
pains and penalties are included.
4. In the exclusion which the act adjudges it imposes a punishment for some
of the acts specified which were not punishable at the time they were
committed, and for other of the acts it adds a new punishment to that
before prescribed, and it is thus within the inhibition of the Constitution against the passage of an e epostfacto law.
5. Attorneys and counsellors are not officers of the United States; they are
officers of the court, admitted as such by its order upon evidence of their
possessing sufficient legal learning and fair private character.
6. The order of admission is the judgment of the court that the parties possess the requisite qualifications and are entitled to appear as attorneys
and counsellors and conduct causes therein. From its entry the parties
become officers of the court, and are responsible to it for professional
misconduct. They hold their office during good behavior, and can only
be deprived of it for misconduct ascertained and declared by the judgment of the court after opportunity to be heard has been afforded. Their
admission and their exclusion are the exercise of judicial power.

EX PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
7. The right of an attorney and counsellor, acquired by his admission, to appear for suitors, and to argue causes, is not a mere indulgence-a matter
of grace and favor-revocable at the pleasure of the court, or at the command of the legislature. It is a right of which he can only be deprived
by the judgment of the court, for moral or professional delinquency.
8. The admitted power of Congress to prescribe qualifications for the office
of attorney and counsellor in the Federal courts cannot be exercised as
a means for the infliction of punishment for the past conduct of such
officers, against the inhibition of the Constitution.
9. The power of pardon conferred by the Constitution upon the President
is unlimited except in cases of impeachment. It extends to every offence known to the law, and may be exercised at any time after its
commission, either before legal proceedings are taken or during their
pendency, or after conviction and judgment. The power is not subject
to legislative control.
10. A pardon reaches the punishment prescribed for an offence and the guilt
of the offender. If granted before conviction it prevents any of the
penalties and disabilities consequent upon conviction from attaching;
if granted after conviction it removes the penalties and disabilities and
restores him to all his civil rights. It gives him a new credit and
capacity. There is only this limitation to its operation: it does not
restore offices forfeited, or property or interests vested in others in consequence of the conviction and judgment.
11. The petitioner in this case having received a full pardon for all offences
committed by his participation, direct or implied, in the Rebellion, is
relieved from all penalties and disabilities attached to the offence of
treason, committed by such participation. For that offence he is beyond the reach of punishment of any kind. He cannot, therefore, be
excluded by reason of that offence from continuing in the enjoyment
of a previously acquired right to appear as an attorney and counsellor
in the Federal courts.

ON the 2d of July, 1862, Congress, by "An act to prescribe an oath of office, and for other purposes,"* enacted:
"That hereafter every person elected or appointed to any
office of honor or profit under the government of the United
States, either in the civil, military, or naval departments of the
public service, excepting the President of the United States,
shall, before entering upon the duties of such office, take and
subscribe the following oath or affirmation:
" (I, A. B., do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I have never voluntarily
borne arms against the United States since I have been a citizen thereof;
that I have voluntarily given no aid, countenance, counsel, or encouragementto
* 12 Stat. at Large, 502.

Dec. 1866.]

EX

PARTE GARLAND.

Statement of the case.
pcrsons engaged in armed hostility thereto; that I have neither sought nor accepted, nor attempted to exercise the functions of any offce whatever, under
any authorityor pretended authority in hostility to the United States; that I
have not yielded a voluntary support to any pretended government, authority, power, or constitution within the United States, hostile or inimical
thereto. And I do further swear (or affirm) that, to the best of my knowledge
and ability, I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion, and that I will well and faithfully discharge
the duties of the office on which I am about to enter, so help me God;' &c.

"Any person who shall falsely take the said oath shall be
guilty of perjury; and, on conviction, in addition to the penalties now prescribed for that offence, shall be deprived of his
office, and rendered incapable forever after of holding any office
or place under the United States."
On the 24th of January, 1865,* Congress passed a supplementary act extending these provisions so as to embrace attorneys and counsellors of the courts of the United States.
It is as follows:
"No person, after the date of this act, shall be admitted to
the bar of the Supreme Court of the United States, or at any time
after the fourth of March next, shall be admitted to the bar of
any Circuit or -DistrictCourtof the United States, or of the Court of
Claims, as an attorney or counsellor of such court, or shall be
allowed to appear and be heard in any such court, by virtue of
any previous admission, or any special power of attorney, unless he shall have first taken and subscribed the oath prescribed
in I An act to prescribe an oath of office and for other purposes,'
approved July 2d, 1862. And any person who shall falsely take
the said oath shall be guilty of perjury, and, on conviction," &c.
By the Judiciary Act of 1789, the Supreme Court has
power to make rules and decide upon the qualifications of
attorneys.
At the December Term of 1860, A. H. Garland, Esquire,
was admitted as an attorney and counsellor of the court, and
took and subscribed the oath then required. The second
rule, as it then existed, was as follows:
* 13 Stat. at Large, 424.

EX PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct

Statement of the vase.

"It shall be requisite to the admission of attorneys and counsellors to practise in this court, that they shall have been such
for three years past in the Supreme Courts of the States to
which they respectively belong, and that their private and professional charactershall appear to be fair.
"They shall respectively take the following oath or affirmation, viz.:
" 'I, A. B., do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will
demean myself as an attorney and counsellor of this court, uprightly, and
according to law, and that I will support the Constitution of the United
States.' "

There was then no other qualification for attorneys in this
court than such as are named in this rule.
In March, 1865, this rule was changed by the addition of
a clause requiring an oath, in conformity with the act of
Congress.
At the same term at which he was admitted, Mr. Garland
appeared, and presented printed arguments in several cases
in which he was counsel. His name continued on the roll
of attorneys from then to the present time; but the late
Rebellion intervened, and all business in which he was concerned at the time of his admission remained undisposed
of. In some of the cases alluded to fees were paid, and in
others they were partially paid. Having taken part in the
Rebellion against the United States, by being in the Congress of the so-called Confederate States, from May, 1861,
until the final surrender of the forces of such Confederate
States-first in the lower house, and afterwards in the Senate
of that body, as the representative of the State of Arkansas,
of which he was a citizen-Mr. Garland could not take the
oath prescribed by the acts of Congress before mentioned,
and the rule of the court of March, 1865.
The State, in I\fay, 1861, passed an ordinance of secession,
purporting to withdraw herself from the Union; and afterwards, in the same year, by another ordinance, attached herself to the so-called Confederate States.
In July, 1865, Mr. Garland received from the President

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Statement of the case.

a pardon, by which the chief magistrate, reciting that Mr.
Garland, "by taking part in the late Rebellion against the
government, had made himself liable to heavy pains and
penalties," &e., did thereby
"IGrant to the said A. R. Garland a FULL PARDON AND AMfor all offences by him committed, arising from participation, direct or implied, in the said Rebellion, conditioned
NESTY

as follows: This pardon to begin and take effect from the day

on which the said A. H. Garland shall take the oath prescribed
in the proclamation of the President, dated MEay 29th, 1865;
and to be void and of no effect if the said A. H. Garland shall
hereafter at any time acquire any Property whatever in slaves,
or make use of slave labor; and that he first pay all costs which
may have accrued in any proeedings hitherto instituted against
his person or property. And upon the further condition that
the said A. H. Garland shall notify the Secretary of State in
writing that he has received and accepted the foregoing pardon."
The oath required was taken by Mr. Garland and annexed
to the pardon. It was to the purport that he would thenceforth "faithfully support, protect, ahd defend the Constitution of the United States and the union of the States thereunder; and that he would in like manner abide by and
faithfully support all laws and proclamations which had behn
made during the existing Rebellion with reference to the

emancipation of slaves."
Mr. Garland now produced this pardon, and by petition
filed in court asked permission to continue to practise as an
attorney and counsellor of the court, without taking the oath
required by the act of January 24th, 1865, and the rule of
the court. H6 rested his application principally upon two
grounds:
1st. That the act of January 24th, 1865, so far as it affected
his status in the court, was unconstitutional and void; and,
2d. That, if the act were constitutional, he was released
from compliance with its provisions by the pardon of the
President.'
VOL. IV.

22

[Sup. Ct.

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Argument for the Petitioner.

lfessrs. 1?everdy Johnson and M. H. Carpenter,for the petitioner, 31r. Garland,who had filed a bxief of his own presenting fully his case.
L In discussing the constitutionality of any law of Congress, the real question is, would the act accomplish a result
which the Constitution forbids? If so, no matter what may
be the form of the act, it is unconstitutional.
This court, in G(reen v. Biddle,* Bronson v. Kinzie,t and in
McCracken v. -Hayward,thas held, that although the States
may legislate at pleasure upon remedies merely, yet if the
practical effect of such legislation, in a given case, be to
burden the right of a creditor unreasonably, or withdraw
the debtor's property from the reach of the creditor, then
such law is unconstitutional, as impairing the obligations
of the contract. In Bronson v. Kinzie, C. J. Taney says:
"Whatever belongs merely to the remedy may be altered
according to the will of the State, provided the alteration does
not impair the obligation of the contract. But if that effect is
produced, it is immaterial whether it is done by acting on the
remedy, or directly on the contract itself. In either case it is
prohibited by the Constitution."
Again he says:
."And no one, we presume, would say that there is any substantial difference between a retrospective law declaring a particular contract or class of contracts to be abrogated and void,
and one which took away all remedy to enforce them, or incumbered it with conditions that render it useless or impracticableto
pursue it."
In the Passenger Cases,§ this court held that State laws,
nominally mere health or police laws, were unconstitutional,
because, in their effect, they amounted to a regulation of commerce; and, therefore, were an exercise of power vested
exclusively in the Federal government.
* 8 Wheaton, 1.

: 2 Id. 608.

t 1 Howard, 311.
7 Howard, 283.

Dec. 1866.]

EX

PARTE GARLAND.

Argument for the Petitioner.

The judges of this court hold office during good behavior.
An act of Congress passed to-day, requiring them to take
an oath that they were not above forty years of age, and
providing, as the act in question does in relation to attorneys, that, "after the 4th March next, no justice of this
court should be admitted to his seat, unless he should take
such oath, even if he were p1eviously ajustice of said court,"
would be a palpable violation of the Constitution, because
it would amount to a disqualification to any man above forty
years of age, and be equivalent to providing that no justice
of this court should remain in office beyond that age; while
the Constitution provides that the judges shall hold during
good behavior.
The Constitution provides,* that "no attainder of treason
shall work corruption of blood, or forfeiture, except during
the life of the person attainted." Now, an act of Congress,
or of a State, declaring that before any heir should enter
into his ancestral estates he should take an oath that his ancestor bad not been attainted of treason, would violate this
provision; and could be intended for no other purpose.
Assault and battery is a crime punishable by fine of $50,
but not with disqualification to bold office. Suppose A. today commits that offence, is tried and fined. To-morrow,
Congress passes a law that no person shall be admitted to
hold any office of honor, profit, or trust until he shall subscribe an oath that he has never committed the crime of assault and battery. Is it not apparent that such act, in its
practical operation, would be ex post facto, as adding to the
punishment of assault and battery an important penalty not
attaching when the crime was committed?
These are instances, and many might be cited, illustrating
the proposition that an act is unconstitutional, which accomplishes a result forbidden by, or in conflict with, the Constitution.
IL What, then, is the result accomplished by the act corn* Article iii,

3.

EX PARTE GARLAND.

.[Sup.

Ct.

Argument for the Petitioner.

plained of, and how does that result accord with the spirit
and provisions of the Constitution ?
This may be considered(1.) With reference to the petition; and
(2.) Upon principle generally.
1. Conceding, for the purpose of this argument, that the
petitioner has been guilty of treason, for which, on conviction in the manner provided in the Constitution (on the
testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open court), he might have been punished with
death.
The President has fully pardoned him for this offence;
and the constitutional effect of that pardon is to restore him
to all his rights, civil and political, including the capacity
or qualification to hold office, as fully in every respect as
though he had never committed the offence. Previous to
the Rebellion, the petitioner was not only qualified to be,
but actually was a member of this bar. In consequence of
his supposed treason, and only in consequence of that, he
subjected himself to the liability of forfeiture of that office;
but the pardon wipes out both the crime and the liability to
punishment, and restores the petitioner to the rights he before possessed, including the right to practise at this bar.
This act of Congress, however, fixes upon this petitioner, as
a consequence of the offbnce, a perpetual disqualification to
hold this or any other office of honor, profit, or trust. In
other words, the act accomplishes a result in direct opposition to the constitutional effect of the pardon. Dropping
names and forms and considering the substance of things,
the President says, by his pardon: "You shall not be precluded from practising in the Supreme Court in consequence
of your crime; I pardon you." The act says: "You shall
never practise in the Supreme Court without taking an oath
which will be perjury, and then, oi conviction of that, that
shall disqualify you." The President is trying to pardon,
and Congress to punish the petitioner for the same offence;
and the only question is, which power prevails over the
other?

Dee. 1866..]

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Argument for the Petitioner.

To examine this subject we must consider first the nature
and effect of the pardon granted to thQ petitioner; and secondly, the character and effect of the oath prescribed by the
act. If it can be shown that the pardon, in its constitutional
effect, extinguishes the crime and precludes the possibility
of punishment; and that the oath in effect fixes a disqualification, which is in the nature of a penalty or punishment
for the same offence, then, of course, the conflict between
the two is established, and we presume it will be conceded,
in that case, that the pardon must prevail.
First, the pardon. The Constitution provides* that the
President "shall have power to grant reprieves and pardons
for offences against the United States, except in cases of impeachment." This language is plain. "Offences," means
"all offences ;" and then the express exception of cases of
impeachment is a repetition of the same idea.
In United States v. Wilson,t Chief Justice Marshall, speaking of the pardoning power, says:
"As this power had been exercised from time immemorial by

the Executive of that nation, whose language is our language,
and to whose judicial institutions ours bear a close resemblance,
we adopt their principles respecting the operation and effect of
a pardon, and look into their books for the rules prescribing the
manner in which it is to be used by the person who would avail
himself of it."

This court, delivering its opinion by Mr. Justice Wayne,
in .ExparteWells,. quotes this language of Chief Justice Marshall with approval, and says further that the power granted
to the President was the same that had before been exercised by the Crown of England." Now let us turn to the
English and American authorities.
In Sharswood's Blackstone§ it is said:
"The effect of a pardon is to make the offender a new man;
to acquit him of all corporal penalties and forfeitures annexed
" Article ii, 2.
: 18 Howard, 315.

- 7 Peters, 150
Vol. 2, p. 402.
V

Ex PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. or.

Argument for the Petitioner.

to that offence for which he obtains a pardon; it gives him a
new credit and capacity; and the pardon of treason or felony,
even after conviction or attainder, will enable a man to have
an action of slander for calling him a traitor or felon."
Bacon's Abridgment says:
"The stroke being pardoned, the effects of it are consequently
pardoned."
And refers to Cole's Case, in the old and accurate reporter Plowden.* Bacon says, also: t
"The pardon removes all punishment and legal disability."I
In Bishop's Criminal Law it is said : §
"The effect of a full pardon is to absolve the party from all
the consequences of his crime, and of his conviction therefor, direct and collateral; it frees him from the punishment, whether
of imprisonment, pecuniary penalty, or whatever else the law
has provided."
in the Pennsylvania case of Cope v. Commonwealth,I the
court says:
"We are satisfied, however, that although the remission of
the fine imposed would not discharge the offender from all the
consequences of his guilt, a full pardon of the offence would."
In the Massachusetts case of Perkins v. Slevens,

it is said:

"It is only a full pardon of the offence which can wipe away
the infamy of the conviction, and restore the convict to his
civil rights."
And quoting from the attorney-general of that State, the
court approves the following language:
"When fully exercised, pardon is an effectual mode of restoring the competency of a witness. It must be fully exercised to
T Pages 415-16, notes a and b.
: See, too, Gilbert on Evidence, 128; Brown v. Crashaw, 2 Bulstrode,
154; wicks v.Smallbrooke, 1 Siderfin, 52.
1128 Pennsylvania State, 297.
1 713.
24 Pickering, 280.
* Page 401.

Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

Argument for the Petitioner.

produce this effect; for if the punishment only be pardoned or
remitted it will not restore the competency, and does not remove the blemish of character. There must be a full and free
pardon of the offence before these can be released and removed."
In other cases* a pardon was held to render the convict
a competent witness, upon the ground that the pardon removed not only the punishment but the stigma of guilt.
These authorities show that the people intended to, and
in fact did, clothe the President with the pow er to pardon
all offences, and thereby to wash away the legal stain and
extinguish all the legal consequences of treason-all penalties, all punishments, and everything in the nature of punishment.
The President, for reasons of the sufficiency of which he
is the sole and exclusive judge, has exercised this power in
favor of the petitioner. The effect of the pardon, therefore,
is to make it impossible for any power on earth to inflict,
constitutionally, any punishment whatever upon the petitioner for the crime of.treason specified in the pardon.
111. The act applied to the petitioner, in substance and
effect, visits upon him a punishment for his pardoned crime.
It will be conceded that the effect of this act is to exclude
the petitioner from this and from all civil office. That a
permanent disqualification for office is a grievous punishment need not be argued in America.
In the matter of Dorsey,t a motion was made for the admission of Dorsey as an attorney, and to dispense with administering to him an oath in relation to duelling, required
by an act of 1826. This act provided that "all members of
the general assembly, all officers and public functionaries,
elected or appointed under the constitution or laws of the
State, and all counsellors and attorneys at law," before entering upon their office, should take an oath that they had
never been engaged in any duel, and that they never
would be.
.
Jones v. Harris, 1 Strobhart, 162, and People v. Pease, 3 Johnson's
Cases, 383.
t 7 Porter, Alabama, 293.

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

I

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Petitioner.

The report of the case occupies about two hundred pages,
and is an able and elaborate discussion of this subject, and
a full authority for the position we take in this case. It was
there held:
1. That in that case the law prescribed a qualification for
holding office, which an individual never could comply with,
and that such act, as to him, was a disqualification.
2. That such disqualification was punishment.
3. That the retrospective part of the oath was unconstitutional.
4. That as a part of the oath was unconstitutional, and the
court could not separate it, the whole oath was unconstitutional, and the petitioner was entitled to be admitted without taking it.
Goldthwaitc, J., says :*
"I have omitted any argument to show that disqualification
from office, or from the pursuits of a lawful avocation, is a punishment; that it is so, is too evident to require any illustration;
indeed, it may be questioned whether any ingenuity could devise any penalty which would operate more forcibly on society."
In Barker v. Te People,t a New York case, the chancellor
says
"Whether the legislature can exclude from public trusts any
person not excluded by the express rules of the Constitution, is
the question which I have already examined, and according to
my views of that question there may be an exclusion by law,
in punishment for crimes, but in no other manner, and for no
other cause."
In same case, in Supreme Court, where the opinion was
delivered by Spencer, C. J., it is said:
"The disfranchisement of a citizen is not an unusual punishment; it was the-consequence of treason, and of infamous crimes,
and it was altogether discretionary in the legislature to extend
that punishment to other offences."
* :Pages .366, .868.

t] 3 Cowen, 686.

Dec. :1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Argument for the Petitioner.

Indeed, the very act we are considering provides this
punishment for those who shall be convicted of perjury for
taking the test oath falsely.
And more than all, the Constitution of the United States*
itself is to the same effect. It says:
"Judgment in cases of impeachment shall not extend further
than to removal from office, and disqualification to hold and
enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit under the United
States."
For the highest crimes-, then, and on trial in the most
solemn form known to the Constitution, the only punishment is disqualification.
These authorities, as we assert, establish:
1. That the pardon absolves the petitioner from all punishment for his offence; and,
2. That the act in question does, in its operation upon the
petitioner, disfranchise him from holding office; and
3.That such disfranchisement is in effect a punishment
for the same offence for which he has been pardoned; and,
therefore,
4. That the act and the pardon are in conflict, and the
pardon must prevail.
17. The foregoing objections are conclusive as regards
Mr. Garland; but it might be omitting a duty that every
lawyer owes his country, not to call attention to other
general objections to this act.
1. What right has Congress to prescribe other qualifications than are found in the Constitution; and what is the
limit of the power? Of course the power is conceded to
make perpetual or limited disqualification one of the penalties of crime, applying the act prospectively. Such was the
act sustained in Barker v. The People, before cited; but where
does Congress get the power to disfranchise and disqualify
any citizen, except as punishment for crimes, whereof the
party shall have been duly convicted?
* Article I,

3.,

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. or.

Argument for the Petitioner.

Congress can exercise none but actually delegated powers,
or such as are incidental and necessary to carry out those
expressly granted. If this act is constitutional, then there
is no limit to the oaths that may be hereafter prescribed.
The whole matter rests in the discretion of Congress. A
law requiring every public officer to swear that he voted for
a particular candidate at the last election, or leave his office,
would be more wanton, but not less constitutional, than the
one we are considering; for if it is in the constitutional
power of Congress to require these disfranchising oaths to
be taken, then Congress alone can determine their nature.
There is no appeal from its determination of any matter
within its constitutional province.
2. The Constitution provides :*
"No person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise
infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a
grand jury; except," &c. . . . "Nor shall he be compelled, in
any criminal case, to be a witness against himself, nor be
deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of
law," &c.
Now, suppose murder or treason to have been in fact
committed by a public officer, but that there is no witness
to establish the fact. Can Congress pass a law requiring
him, as a condition to his further continuance in office, or
ever after holding any office, to take an oath that he has not
committed murder or treason? If so, all the consequences
which can follow from conviction on impeachment, viz., incapacity to hold office, may be visited upon the guilty party
without indictment, trial, or witnesses produced against him,
and without any process of law whatever; and Congress may
by exposifaclo laws brand the most trifling offence, or even a
difference of political opinion, with total disqualification to
hold office. Such rapid administration of justice might often
reach a correct result, and disfranchise a guilty man whose
absence from office might not endanger the Republic; but
Article V, Amendments.

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Argument for the Petitioner.

the question is, is it a constitutional method of establishing
and punishing guilt?
3.The petitioner's right to practise in this court is property. In Waarnmack v. Halloway,* it was held by the court
unanimously, that "1the right to exercise an office is as much
a species of property as any other thing capable of possessiop; and to wrongfully deprive one of it, or unjustly withhold it, is an injury which the law can redress in as ample
a manner as any other wrong; and conflicting claims to exercise it must be decided in the same manner as other claims
involving ny other right, if either of the claimants insist
on a jury."
In Ex parte Hieyfron,t it was held to be "error to strike
an attorney from the roll on motion without giving him
notice of the proceeding," the court saying: "jIt is a cardinal
principle in the administration of justice, that no man can
be condemned, or divested of his rights, until he has had an
opportunity of being heard."
In the rnatter of Cooper,t it was held that the court, in passing upon the admission of an applicant to practise as an
attorney, acted judicially, and its decision was reviewable
in the appellate court.
In BEx parte Seconzbe,§ this court say (by 0. J. Taney):
"It rests exclusively with the court to determine who is qualified to become one of its officers, as an attorney and counsellor,
and for what cause he ought to be removed. The power, however, is not an arbitraryand despotic one, to be exercised at the pleasure of the court, or from passion, prejudice, or personal hostility;

but it is the duty of the court to exercise and regulate it by
sound and just judicial discretion, whereby the rights and independence of the bar may be as scrupulously guarded and
maintained by the court as the rights and dignity of the court
itself."
These cases show that the petitioner has a vested right
t 7 Howard's Mississippi, 127.
" 2 Alabama, 81.
: 22 New York, 67. See, also, Strother v. State, 1 Missouri, 554 or *772.
19 Howard, 9.

Ex PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the Petitioner.

in his office as an attorney of this court, of which he can
only be deprived by some regular judicial proceeding. He
may be removed for cause; but the adjudication of the court
in the premises is a judicial judgment, which may be reviewed on appeal.

Depriving the petitioner, therefore, of his office by an
enforcement of this act of Congress, is depriving him of his
property without due process of law.
Mr. B?. H. Mlarr, alsofor tMe petitioner:*
I. The President has granted to the petitioner a "full pardon and amnesty." Here are two words, and the meaning
of them is different.
The meafing of the word pardon has been discussed and

is well known. The word "amnesty" is not of frequent use
in the English law; for the clemency which is expressed by
that word is usually exercised in England by what they call
an act of indemnity.

Let us inquire into its meaning.

Neither the English law nor our law throws great light
upon the matter. It may be well to trace its history, and to
see how it was understood originally, how it has been uniformly understood since, and is now understood, by some of
the most polished nations of the world. If we turn our attention to France, particularly, so long and so often the sport of
political storms and revolutions, we shall find in her jurisprudence abundant light to guide us in our inquiry as to the
meaning and effect of the amnesty.
The word comes from the Greek, Ali'wrga, and means oblivion, the state or condition of being forgotten, no longer

remembered. When Thrasybulus had overcome and dethroned the Thirty Tyrants, he induced his followers, by his
* Mr. Marr had himself filed a petition similar to that of Mr. Garland,
for permission to continue to practise as an attorney and counsellor of the
court without taking the oath required by the act of Congress and the rule
of the court. He had been engaged in the Rebellion, but had received a full
pardon from the President. It was understood that the decision upon Mr.
Garland's petition would also embrace, in principle, his. The argument
here given is from the brief filed in his own case.

Dec. 1806.]

Ex

PARTE, GARLAND.

Argument for the Petitioner.

persuasive eloquence, and by the influence which his noble
virtues gave him, to pass an act of perpetual oblivion in favor
of an oligarchical party, from whom they had suffered atrocious wrongs; to forget,,to remember no longer, the past
offences, grievous as they were; and this act of clemency,
running back to about the year 403 3. C., he called Apqzza.
The Romans, too, bad their amnesty, which they called
Abolitdo, and which is thus defined in their law: "Abolitio est
deletio, oblivio, vel extinctio aceusationis."
This high prerogative was exercised by the kings of Spain
from a very remote period; and its effect* is, to condone the
penalty, and to obliterate, efface the mark of infamy.
From an early period, this prerogative has been exercised
by the kings of France, and its effect has been the subject
of the most minute judicial investigation.
Merlint defines the word: " -racedu sourerain,par laquelle
il veit qu'on oublie ce qui a 61t fait contre lid ou contreses ordres."
Fleming & Tibbins, in their Dictionary,J define it: "PTardon qu'on aceorde & des rebelles ou b des dserteurs."
In the matter of a person named Clemency,§ the Court
of Cassation'say:
"If the effect of letters of pardon is limited to the remission
of the whole or a part of the penalties pronounced against one
or more individuals; if they leave the offence still subsisting,
as well as the culpability of the pardoned, and even declare the
justice of the condemnation, it is otherwise with respect to a
ful and complete amnesty, which carries with it the extinction
of the offences of which it is the object; of the prosecutions
commenced or to be commenced; of the condemnations which
may have been or which may be pronounced; so that these
offences, covered with the veil of the law, by the royal power
and clemency, are, with respect to courts and tribunals, as if they
had never been committed, saving to third persons their right to
reparation, by civil action, for injury to them."
* Tapia, Febrero Novissimo, tomo 8, p. 56, 14.
t Rb'pertoire de Jurisprudence, Tit. "Amnistie."
Tit. "Amnistie."
De Villeneuve & Carrette, vol. 1825, 1827, part 1, p. 135.

Ex PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. ot

Argument for the Petitioner.

Clemency had been guilty of theft, in a time of great
scarcity; and was amnestied. She afterwards committed
the same offence, and the prosecution insisted on inflicting
upon her the accumulated penalties due to a repetition of the
offence. But the court held that the first offence had been
so completely annihilated by the amnesty, that it could not
be considered in law as having ever existed or been committed, insomuch that the offence for which she was then
prosecuted, though in reality a repetition of the first, could
be considered in law only as a first offence, and punished as
such.
Girardin was married in 1822. In 1834, by judgment of
the court of assizes of the department to which he belonged,
he was condemned by default, and sentenced to death for
some political offence; and civil death was a consequence
of that judgment. In 1840, an amnesty was declared by
royal ordinance, in favor of all under condemnation for political crimes or offences.
Supposing, as the effect of the civil death pronounced
against him operated a dissolution of his marriage, that it
was necessary to have it celebrated anew, Girardin instituted
some proceeding, in the nature of a mandamus, against the
mayor of his town, to compel the performance of the marriage ceremony; and the Court of first instance ordered the
new celebration to take place.
The mayor appealed; and the royal court reversed the
decision, upon the ground that:
" The amnesty had annihilated the sentence pronounced
against Girardin, had abolished the past, and had reintegrated
the amnestied in the plenitude of his civil life; that, consequently, he is to be regarded as having never been deprived of
civil life; and that the new celebration would be in some sort
an act of derision, and contrary in every respect to the sanctity
of marriage."*
By writ of error, Girardin sought, in the Court of Cassa* De Villeneuve & Carrette, 1840, part 2, p. 372, &e.

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE

GARLAND.

Argument for the Petitioner.

tion, the highest judicial tribunal in France, a reversal of
the judgment of the royal court. But the Court of Cassation rejected the writ of error, and affirmed the judgment
of the royal court. The court say:
"Since the object of the amnesty is to efface, completely, the
past-that is to say, to replace the amnestied in the position in
which they were before the condemnation had been incurred, it
follows that it produces the complete re-establishment of the
amnestied in the enjoyment of the rights which they had before
the condemnation, saving the rights of third persons."*
It may be said generally, we think, that pardon is usually
granted to an individual; amnesty to a class of persons, or
to a whole community. Pardon usually follows conviction,
and then its effect is to remit the penalty. Amnesty usually
precedes, but it may follow trial and conviction, and its effect
is to obliterate the past, to leave no trace of the offence, and
to place the offender exactly in the position which he occupied before the offence was committed, or in which he would
have been if he had not committed the offence.
1L. The President had the right to grant an amnesty.
The Constitution gives him unlimited power in respect to
pardon, save only in cases of impeachment. The Constitution does not say what sort of'pardon; but the term being
generic necessarily includes every species of pardon, individual as well as general, conditional as well as absolute.
It is, therefore, within the power of the President to limit
his pardon, as in those -cases in which it is individual and
after conviction, to the mere release of the penalty-it is
equally within his prerogative to extend it so as to include a
whole class of offenders-to interpose this act of clemency
before trial or conviction; and not merely to take away the
penalty, but to forgive and obliterate the offence.
It is worthy of remark, that Congress stands committed
as to the extent of the pardoning power, and the mode of exercising that power by proclamation. By the act approved
* Id. 1850, part 1, p. 672-3

EX PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

17th July, 1862, entitled "Ai act to suppress insurrection," &c.,
section 13, it is declared, that
"The President is hereby authorized, at any time hereafter,
by proclamation, to extend to persons who may have participated in the existing Rebellion in any State or part thereof,
pardon and amnesty, with such exceptions and at such time
and on such conditions as he may deem expedient for the public welfare."
.lr. Speed, contra,for the United States:
Gentlemen present themselves here who were once practitioners before this court, but who confess in form that they
have been traitors, and virtually confess that they have forfeited the privileges which they had under the rules of this
court. Confessing all this, they maintain their right to take
the original oath again, and to come back to practise before
this court because they have been pardoned by the President.
Who is a counsellor or attorney? Opposing counsel seem
to think that a man has a natural right to practise law; the
same sort of right that he has to locomotion, and even to life.
But this, we submit, is not so. The last-mentioned rights
were given to us by the Creator; and government is made
to preserve them. The government does not give the right
to life, nor the right to locomotion, though it protects us all
in the exercise of both. We sometimes call the privilege to
practise law a right, but this is a mere manner of speaking;
for it is, in truth, but a privilege; a privilege created by the
law; held under the law, and according to the terms and
conditions prescribed in the law. Not being a natural right,
and one so protected, but a right received, and upon conditions and terms, the question in this case is, can the legislature or this court prescribe such conditions as are stated in
this oath?
Whence came the power of this court to exact of an attorney an oath of any kind? No oath is prescribed in the Constitution, nor in the Judiciary Act of 1789. Whence comes
the power? Under the act of 1789 this court is doubtless

Dec.1866.]

EX PARTE GAitLAND.
Argument for the United States.

vested with the power to prescribe one. Under that power
this court prescribed the old* oath. But why that oath any
more than any other oath? What part of the Constitution
restrains the court to the point of prescribing this oath, and
this oath only? None. Then if the court could prescribe
this old, oath, can it not prescribe another and different
oath? No, say opposing counsel, it cannot; and especially
it cannot prescribe a retroactive oath.
But really there is no retroaction about this law. Every
qualification is retroactive in one sense. A man presents
himself to qualify under the old rule as a counsellor and attorney of this court. What is the question? It is as to his
past life, as to his past conduct, and as to his then sufficiency
because of his past life and past conduct. His "private and
professional character shall appear to be fair," said the rule.
Moreover, we submit that every man stands here with a
continuing condition of that sort upon him. The condition
attaches every hour in which any man stands before the
courts. It is not simply that he is, at the time he takes it,
a man whose private and professional character appears
fair. Could any gentleman, having committed yesterday an
offence for which, if the court knew when he was admitted
that he had been guilty of, he would not have been admitted
-could he stand here to-day and contend that an exclusion
on account of that offence would be retroactive? The qualification does not infer as a necessity that the counsellor admitted will both then. and for all future time be qualified.
He may disqualify himself. Being once qualified, he must
live up to that rule which qualified him at the first. Suppose a member of the bar of this court, having been once
qualified for admission, were guilty of perjury before this
court, does he ever afterwards continue qualified? There
is, then, nothing retroactive in this qualification.
Is it a penalty? No; only a qualification. Take it as an
original matter, say the opposing counsel, it is one thing;
take it as a question retroactive, it is another thing. But
* See it, supra, p. 336.
VOL. Iv.

23

EX PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

it is always an original question whether this court cannot
change its rules and repeat the qualification, either as to
moral qualities, as to professional skill and ability, and even
as to political crimes. Who doubts that it is competent for
the court to-morrow morning to read a rule here that shall
require every gentleman who practises at this bar to submit
his pretensions for sufficiency over again ? But the power
to make the rule contains the power to repeal the rule; the
power to make the rule and repeal the rule contains the
power to modify and to change the rule as the court may
see proper to do.
Under the act of 1789, then, it was competent for this
court, by the authority given under that act, to pass such a
rule as that objected to, and to make such a rule applicable
not only to those who present themselves in the future, but
applicable to all who appear here with a previous license to
practise law.
But if tnder the act of 1789 the court cannot make the
rule, we have the act of Congress of 24th January, 1865.
Cannot the legislature prescribe the qualifications which the
counsellor shall have; the length of time lie shall have been
at the bar; the number of books, or the very books, that he
shall have read and understood; that he shall not practise
in this court at all, unless he shall have practised in the
Federal courts in the several States; that he may practise in
this court though he had never appeared before the SupremeCourt of a State? Where is the limit? Congress has the
power. How can you limit that power? Can you limit it
because Congress may abuse that power? Opposing counsel argue about this government becoming a government
of faction, a government of party, &c., if these powers exist
in Congress. This court has said too often, and it is too
familiar to the judges for me to do more than mention it,
that the fact that a power may be abused is no argument
against its existence.
It is said Congress cannot exact such an oath of office from
attorneys, or from any one else; but on the face of the Constitution there is such a power given. The word "oath"

:Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

Argument for the United States.

occurs but three times in the Constitution; once it prescribes
an oath to be taken by the President; next, it is declared
that the senators and representatives before mentioned, and
the members of the several State legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers, both of the United States and of
the several States, shall be bound by oath or affirmation to
support this Constitution; "but no religious test, it is ordained,
shall ever be requiredas a qualfeation to any ofe or public trust
under the United States." Why this exception? Simply because the framers of the instrument knew that if the exception was not put in the instrument, there would be the
ability to require a religious test. That one sort of oath
alone is forbidden by the Constitution. From that provision
it is to be inferred that other oaths may be exacted. The
inference extends to senators and members of the House
of Representatives; it even reaches to that point-a point
not now before the court. Some persons have argued that
this oath in the Constitution cannot be changed by the

Senate or House of Representatives; that all the Senate or
House have to do, is to inquire as to the age and residence
of the party. Have not the Senate a right to go beyond
that? Have they not the right to expel a man from the
body? Take the case of Breckenridge, who was expelled;
the Senate recording upon its journals that he was a traitor.
Could that man present credentials, and demand that he
should be formally admitted, even though he might be again
expelled? It was in our view of the Constitution that Chief
Justice Marshall, in Me C'uloch v. The State of Maryland,* says,
that the man would be insane who should say that Congress
had not the power to require any other oath of office than
the one mentioned in the Constitution.

As to the expediency and the propriety of passing such an
act as that of 24th January, 1865, that involves a question of
duty in Congress, with which this court has nothing to do.
It would seem that, in times such as we have had, some oath
ought to be required that would keep from this bench and
* 4 Wbeaton, 416.

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. t

Argument for the United States.

from this bar men who had been guilty, and were then
guilty, of treason. There was a late associate justice upon
this bench, a gentleman for whom personally all had high
regard. He left this bench and went off to the Confederacy.
Suppose he had not resigned; suppose that this judge had
come back here and demanded to take his seat on the bench;
could you have received him in your conference-room either
pardoned or unpardoned? Would the court regard itself
as discharging its duty, if it took him into conference, guilty,
as he confessed himself to be, of treason? I know that the
court would not.
Will the judges admit men to minister at the bar of justice, whom they would not admit like men among themselves? Will they say that it is unconstitutional to keep such
men from the bar by an oath like this, but that it is quite
constitutional to keep them from the bench? If a man has
a right, without taking this oath, to come here among us,
and stand at this bar, and exercise all the functions of an
attorney and counsellor in this court because he has a pardon, would not a judge, though guilty confessedly of treason,
have a like right to return to the bench ;-if he had been
pardoned? Why could he not do it? Only because this
thing of office, this thing of privilege, is a creature of law,
and not a natural right. Being a creature of law, no man
can, like a parricide, stab that law, and claim at the same
time all its privileges and all its honors. He would destroy
the very government for which he asserts a right to act.
This he cannot do. The case of Colien v. "Wrighl* bears
strongly in our favor. There the constitution of California
prescribed an oath, to be taken by "members of the legislature and all officers, executive and judicial." It then declared that "no other oath, declaration, or test, shall be
required as a qualification for any office or public trust."
On the 25th April, 1863, the legislature passed an act, declaring that a defendant in any suit pending in a court of
* 22 California, 225. The report, as here given, is extracted from a printed
statement of Mr. Henderson's argument in Cummings v. Missouri.

Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

Argument for the United States.

record might object to the loyalty of the plaintiff; and thereupon the plaintiff should take an oath, in addition to other
things, that he had not, since the passage of the act, aided
or encouraged the Confederate States in their rebellion, and
that he would not do so in the future. In default of his
taking the oath, his suit should be absolutely dismissed, and
no other suit should be maintained by himself, his grantee,
or assigns, for the same cause of action. All attorneys-atlaw were required to take the same oath, and file it in the
county clerk's office of their respective counties; and to
practise without taking it, was declared a misdemeanor. A
few days after the passage of the act, an action of assumpsit
was brought in one of the courts on a contract, which, as
would seem from the opinion in the case, existed at and
before the passage of the act. The plaintiff was required
to take the oath; and having refused to do so, his case was
dismissed, and judgment rendered that it shoulht not again
be brought. The attorney appearing in the cause refused
to take the oath, and he was debarred. Both questions were
passed on by the Supreme Court, and the oath sustained as
equally applicable to both litigants and attorneys. The court
say, in reference to attorneys, that the legislature "has the
power to regulate as well as to suppress particular branches
of business deemed by it immoral and prejudicial to the
general good. The duty of government comprehends the
moral as well as the physical welfare of the state." In reference to the objgction that litigants are deprived of rights v
by a process not known as "due process of law," which is
guaranteed by the California constitution, the court say:
"As one State of the Union, California has the right to deny
the use of her courts to those who have committed or intended to commit treason against the nation."
The California case, indeed, was, we admit, decided on a
prospective statute; and the court, in that case, say there
would be a doubt if it was retroactive. Upon that subject,
as we have said before, we have no doubt; because the license
and privilege of every gentleman here, at the bar, is upon a
'continuing condition, and is subject to the power of this

EX PARTE GARLAND.

[Slip. Ct.

Argument for the United States.

court, subject to the power of Congress to change the rule,
there being no natural, inalienable right to occupy the position.
Mr. Stanbery, special counsel of the United States, on the same
side, and against the petitioner:
I. A pardon is not, as argued, all-absorbing. It does not
protect the party from all the consequences of his act. What
is the old Latin maxim that governs pardon? Rex non potest dare gratiam cum injurid et damno aliorum. A pardon,
while it absolves the offender, does not touch the rights of
others. Suppose that there is a penal statute against an
offence, and the policy of the law being to detect the offender,
there is a promise of reward to the informer, upon his conviction, to be had. If a pardon is given to that offender,
what is the consequence upon the informer, who draws his
right simply out of tbe offence and the conviction of the
offence? Does it take away his right to the fine, or the liability to pay him the fine? If the fine is half to the informer and half to the public, what is the effect? The half
to the public is gone, but the half to the informer is not
gone. There is one consequence arising out of the offence
that the pardon does not reach.
Put another case. Suppose a man is indicted and sent to
the penitentiary for life, and that the consequence of the
confinement is declared by law to be that he is civiliter mortus-dead in the estimation of the law. During his confin ement his wife is released from the bonds of matrimony.
She is a widow in the estimation of the law; her husband is
dead, so far as the law can see. She marries again. After
all that comes executive clemency, makes the offender a new
man, pardons the offence, and, if you please, all the consequences. The man is no longer ciriliter mortuas; again lie is
probas leqalis, or legalis homo; but shall he have his wife, however willing she may be? Does this pardon divorce the
newly-married parties, and annul their marriage? Does it
make the first husband just the man he was, and with all
the rights he had when he committed the offence? No.

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Argument for the United States.

Suppose it is some ecclesiastical penalty that has been incurred; that some incumbent has lost his office as a part of
the punishment of the offence, and afterwards the king
chooses to pardon him. What does Baron Comyns say, in
that case, as to restoration to rights ?*
"A. pardon to the parson of a church of all contempts for
acceptance of a plurality does not restore him to the former

church."
"So a pardon does not discharge a thing consequent, in which
a subject has an interest vested in him; as if costs are taxed in
a spiritual court, a pardon of the offence does not discharge the
costs."
Pardon is forgiveness, but not necessarily restoration; it
restores many things-not all things. For centuries, it has
been a question in England, whether a pardon makes a man
fit to sit in the jury-box, where the offence involves a forfeiture of his right to sit in the jury-box; and so whether a
pardon restores a man to competency as a witness, when the
crime of which he stands convicted excludes him from being
a witness? On that question, I should suppose that much
depends on the terms of the pardon.
What are the rights of this court and the rights of Congress, also, with regard to those who are to practise here?
There are certain things in which neither the executive department nor yet the legislative department can interfere
with this bench; and I am glad it is so. No law can deprive
your honors of your places here during life or good behavior.
No President can remove a judge from this bench; and
thank God it is so. No law of Congress can remove a judge
from this bench. I know there have been laws of Congress
that have removed United States judges from lower benches
than this, but their validity has been always questioned.
But no Congress has ever dared to pass a law to remove a
judge from this bench, or to abolish this bench, or change
the structure of the Supreme Court of the United States.
* Vol. 5, p. 244.

360

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. t

Argument for the United States.

What next? Congress, it is certain, cannot interfere with
your proper judicial functions. Wherever anything is commanded of you by Congress that interferes with the upright
and impartial and unfettered judicial authority that you
have, such a law is void, and invades your department, just
as distinct and unassailable as the power of Congress itself
or the executive power itself; so that if this law, which prescribes an oath to be taken by counsellors of this court, invades the proper and exclusive power of this court-if Congress has no right to say what lawyers shall practise here or
what shall be their qualifications-if that is a matter exclusively for this court, then, undoubtedly and beyond all question, this is a void law.
But let us consider what Congress may really do with regard to this court and with regard to its officers; let us see
the great field over which legislation walks undisturbed in
reference to it. Who made this number of ten judges here?
Congress. And they can put twelve here, or twenty, if
they see fit. One they cannot take from here by act of
Congress, but only by impeachment after due trial. What
further can they not do? They fix your salaries; but the
moment the law is passed and approved, the salary so fixed
is beyond their power to reduce,.not to increase. They may
force the judges to take more, but they cannot require them
to take a dollar less.
What next can they do? This court sits here in this
Capitol. Is that not by authority of law? Why is there a
chief justice to preside here? Was he made by this bench?
Not at all; but made by law. Why are the judges sitting
here now to hold a terni? Of their own motion? Not at
all; but under the authority of law. Why are the judges
required to visit all the circuits, at great personal inconvenience perhaps? On their own motion ? No; by authority of law.
Passing from the bench. What is the clerk? An officer
of this court, appointed by this court; but under what authority? By law. Who pays him? Ie is paid by law.
What is he? Ain officer merely of this court, or an officer

Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

Argument for the United States.

of the United States under the laws of the United States?
Ie is the latter in every respect. Then, your marshal; who
sends him here, and compels him to be here? Congress.
it is by authority of law. All the machinery of the court,
so far as its officers are concerned, comes to you by statute..
The statute says you shall have one marshal, not two; one
clerk, not three.
A class remains; the attorneys and counsellors that practise here. Under what authority is it that we have attorneys
and counsellors here, and that they have rights to be heard
here? Did your honors give us these rights? Is it by grant
from this court that there are counsellors and attorneys here?
No. It comes by act of Congress. The Constitution is silent
upon it. The word "attorney" is not mentioned, and the
word "counsel" is only mentioned in it as the ikight of a
person accused of crime. It is an act of Congress that creates us and gives us the right to appear here as attorneys
and counsellors at law under certain limitations. Congress
has imposed very few upon us. Congress very wisely have
given to the court the power to receive or to exclude, and
to lay down the terms upon which a counsellor shall be
admitted.
But when you are exercising that power with regard to
attorneys and counsellors you are exercising a power granted
by Congress, and we stand here as attorneys under that law
and say to your honors, "Admit us; here are all the things
that you have required and all that the law has required;
admit us." Is it not so, that in everything in which Congress has given you the power over us, to admit us or to exclude us, you get that power by law? Who prescribes the
oath of the attorney ? Is that left to the court merely, or
has that been exercised by Congress? The original oath req'uired of attorneys is not found in the Constitution. The
Constitution, upon the subject of oaths to be administered,
relates only to oaths of office of persons appointed or elected
to oflice under the Federal authority. Attorneys, as it is
admited on the other side, are not such officers, and the
oath pointed out by the Constitution has nothing to do with

EX PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the United States.

lawyers. But Congress undertook, in the original Judiciary
Act, to say that in all courts of the United States the parties
may plead and manage their own causes personally, "or by
the assistance of such counsel or attorneys-at-law as by the
rules of the said courts respectively shall be permitted to
manage and conduct causes therein." Congress gives power
to the court to prescribe the oath; and to exercise over its
counsel all wholesome control.
What further may Congress do ? If under the authority
thus given to you over attorneys you have a right to prescribe
an additional oath, may not Congress do the same thing? Is
there any constitutional objection there? Has Congress exhausted all its power with reference to such a body of men
as attorneys and counsellors in the courts of the United
States, so that it can do nothing further and lay down no
further rule for admission or exclusion, for oath, for bond,
for security? Not at all. The very first exercise of the
power under which we take our first right to be attorneys
and counsellors here remains; it is not exhausted; and no
one can assign any reason at this moment why Congress, in
its power over the attorneys and counsellors of this court,
may not prescribe rules of admission, residence, and a thousand other things, that might be fixed under a constitution
like ours. In the States we do not leave so much to our
courts in regard to attorneys and counsellors as Congress
has, very wisely, I think, left to this court. We prescribe
almost everything there by statute; fix all the qualifications
through the legislative department, to be observed as to
those who practise before the judicial department.
Then I take it as clear, so far as these persons are concerned, these attorneys and counsellors at law, that there is
a power in this court to prescribe oaths and additional oaths,
and just as clear a power in Congress to prescribe oaths an'd
additional oaths.
Having shown that the subject-matter of an oath to be
taken by attorneys and counsellors of this court is within
the competency of legislative authority and regulation, quite

Dec. 1866.]
I

Ex PARTE G-ARLAND.
Argument for the United States.

as fully as it is within the competency of this court by virtue
of the Judiciary Act; having shown that there is no constitutional objection to the exercise of this power by Congress,
and that the only possible objection that can be taken to it,
is that Congress has once exercised the power by law; when
I have shown that that exercise of power did not exhaust
the power of the legislature, then I have shown that so far
this is a valid law and a valid oath. All that it is necessary
for me to say is this: if the rule is valid, the law, which has
somewhat more of solemnity and force than a rule, is equally
valid. I do not ask for it any greater validity, but equality,
so far as mere validity is concerned in the passage of the
law or the passage of the rule. If I am right here, what
will the bench say to a pardon of the President, who, when
a lawyer is ejected from this court as unfit to practise here,
grants a pardon for the very offence for which the court has
ejected him? For instance, the lawyer may have committed
forgery or perjury, things which make a man, when convicted of them, very unfit to practise as an attorney and
counsellor at law.. In consequence of that, the court may
disbar him. Then the President pardons him, absolves him
from the conviction of perjury and forgery, and, according to
the position of the opposite side, restores him at once to his
right to be here, and defies the rule which you have made,
and your authority to exclude him. If that cannot be done
in opposition to a rule, can the same thing be done in opposition to a law passed by the legislative body that had authority over the subject-matter? Clearly not.
II. Now, passing-over the question of the power of Congress to do it, was it not eminently fit that such a law should
be passed at the time; that Congress, then charged with the
duty of saving the country, should exclude fiom its courts
members of the bar in actual rebellion against it? It was
eminently proper then. W-hat! only exclude those who
have not yet committed treason, and make them swear that
they will not commit treason; and have no power to exclude
those who have committed treason, and who come to de-

EX PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. O

Argument for the United States.

mand as a right to practise here, with the admission on
their lips that they are traitors, and, if you please, mean to
continue traitors; for I am speaking of the thing as it was
in 1862, when that law was passed. What! after treason is
committed, and the traitor comes hereflagrantedelicto, without pardon, if you please, asking no clemency, comes here
to practise law, and this oath is opposed to him, he says, "It
does not bind me; I have committed treason, it is true; I
have never recanted; I have not been pardoned; but that
oath is unconstitutional, so far as I am concerned, and takes
away my high privilege of practising in this court at this
time."
ie says that it is ex post facto and void, because it
makes a thing a crime which was not a crime at the time!
Does it impose a criminal penalty with regard to penal matters? That is the meaning of penalty in that sense. We
have now here before us a law that simply says, that a
party who has committed a certain act shall not practise law
in the courts of the United States. Is that making a new
crime? Is that adding a new penalty in the sense of criminal penalties? INot at all. The act prescribing the oath
does not say, that when a man comes here and admits that
he has committed the offence, the court shall try and punish
him for that offence. It says, that in order to practise he
shall take an oath that he has never committed treason, that
he has never joined the Rebellion. That is all. He may take
the oath or not as he pleases. No one compels him to take
it. Is it a penalty, when he must invoke the penalty on his
own head if there is penalty? That oath does not punish
him, nor authorize anybody to punish him, nor say that he
has done anything heretofore that is punishable in the sense
of crime or delict. iHe may stay away; no one can touch
him. He may choose to practise in the State courts; and
that is well. All that the law says is, "If you come here,
we require you, before we give you the privilege to appear in this court, to state under oath that you have not
been in rebellion against this government." That is the
whole of it.

Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

Reply for the Petitioner.

Mr. 1Reverdy Johnson, in reply, for the petitioner:
I. The ninth clause of the first article of the Constitution
declares that no "ex post facto law shall be passed." So solicitous were the framers of the Constitution to prohibit the
enactment of such laws, that they imposed upon every State
government the same restriction. They considered laws of
that character to be "contrary to the first principles of the
social compact, and to every principle of sound legislation."
So says Mr. Madison in the 44th number of the Federalist.
In the same number he tells us that, however obvious this
is, "Our own experience has taught us nevertheless that additional fences against these dangers ought not to be omitted.
Very properly, therefore, have the convention added this
constitutional bulwark in favor of personal security and private rights." Mr. Hamilton, in the 78th number of the
same work, advocates the necessity of an independent judiciary, upon the ground of its being "essential in a limited
constitution," and adds: "] B y a limited constitution I understand one which contains certain specified exceptions to
the legislative authority, such, for instance, as that it shall
pass no bills of attainder, no ex post facto laws, and the like.
Limitations of this kind can be preserved in practice in no
other way than through the medium of the courts of justice,
whose duty it must be to declare all acts, contrary to the
manifest tenor of the Constitution, void. Without this, all
the reservations of particular rights or privileges would
amount to nothing." Is not the act in question, in its application to Mr. Garland, an ex postfacto law? These terms
are technical, and were known to the common law of England when the Constitution was adopted. Their meaning,
too, was then well understood. An English writer says that
such a law is one "made to meet a particular offence committed." Another defines it to be "a law enacted purposely
to take cognizance of an offence already committed." The
same meaning was given to it as early as 1798, in Calder v.
-Bull.* And in the subsequent case of Fletcher v. Peck/,t it
* 3 Dallas, 386.

f 6 Cranch, 1,18.

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

[Slip. ot.

Reply for the Petitioner.

was again defined and adjudged to be a law which renders
"an act punishable in a manner in which it was not punishable'when it was committed." This definition, as is truly
said by Chancellor Kent, is "distinguished for its comprehensive brevity and precision ;" and Kent correctly tells us
that "laws passed after the act, and affecting a person by
way of punishment, either in his person or estate, are within
the definition."*
The design, therefore, of this restriction was to prohibit
legislation punishing a man, either in his person or eytate, for
an act for which there was no punishment provided when
the act was done, or from imposing an additional punishment to that which was then imposed, or to supply a deficiency of legal proof by admitting testimony less than that
before required, or testimony which the courts were before
prohibited from admitting. With this understanding of the
term, is not the act of 1865 an ex post facto law? Does it
not punish Mr. Garland for an act in a manner in which he
was not punishable when it was committed? Does it not
punish him in fact? Educated for the profession, his hopes
centred in his success in it, his highest ambition being to
share its honors, his support and that of his family depending upon success; can any man doubt that a law which deprives him of the right to pursue that profession, which defeats such hopes, which deprives him of the opportunity to
gratify so noble an ambition, and which deprives him of
the means of supporting himself and those dependent upon
him, inflicts a severe, cruel, and heretofore in this country
an unexampled punishment?
Our statutes, indeed, are full of provisions showing that,
in the judgment of Congress, similar consequences are punishments to be inflicted for crime. Disfranchisement of the
privilege of holding offices of honor, trust, or profit, is imposed as a punishment upon those who are convicted of bribery, forgery, and many other offences. And how crushing
is such punishment! To be excluded from the public ser* 1 Kent's Commentaries, 409.

Dec. 1866.]

x PARTE GARLAND.
Reply for the Petitioner.

vice makes the man virtually an exile in his native land; an
alien in his own country; and whilst subjecting him to all
the obligations of the Constitution, holds him to strict allegiance and denies him some of its most important advantages. Can the imagination of man conceive a punishment
greater than this? And this is not only the effect of the act,
but such was its obvious and declared purpose. Vhen it
was passed the country was engaged in a civil war of unexampled magnitude, begun and waged for the purpose of destroying the very life of the nation, of dissevering the government which our fathers provided for its preservation. In
1865 nearly all the members of the legal profession in the
Southern States had adopted the heresy of secession as a
constitutional right, and were5 or had been, either in the
military or civil service of the Confederate government, or
had given voluntary "aid, countenance, counsel, or encouragement to persons engaged in armed hostility" to the
United States, or had yielded a voluntary support to some
"pretended government, authority, power, or constitution
within the United States hostile or inimical to the same;"
and this was known to Congress. However criminal such
conduct may have been; however liable the parties were to
prosecution and punishment by the laws then in force, the
particular punishment inflicted by the act of 1865 could not
have been awarded. That act does not repeal the laws by
which such conduct was then punishable, but imposes (and
such was its sole and avowed purpose) the additional punishment of disfranchisement. The law assumes that the acts
which the oath it prescribes is to deny, have been done by
lawyers, and that such acts are crimes to be punished by a
denial or forfeiture of their right to appear as counsel in the
courts of the Union. Its very design, therefore, and its
effect is to inflict a punishment for the imputed crime additional to that which the laws in force when the crime was
committed provided. It falls, then, within the conceded
definition of an ex post facto law, and is therefore void. It
is also obnoxious to the same objection, because it changes
"the legal rules of evidence and receives different testimony

EX PARTE GARLAND.

[Slip. t

Reply for the Petitioner.

than was requisite for the conviction of the offender at the
time the offence was perpetrated."* This is evident. The
offence imputed is treason, of which the party at the time
of its commission could not have been convicted by refusing
to take such an oath as this act requires, or any other, but
only upon "the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt
act, or on confession in open court."t
II. The act is also in conflict with that part of the fifth
article of the amendments of the Constitution which provides that no person "shall be compelled, in any criminal
case, to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law."
Within the meaning of the first part of this clause, every
charge of crime against a party constitutes a "criminal case."
INo matter how made, if it becomes a subject of legal inquiry, the party cannot be compelled to testify. The purpose is to prevent his being called upon to prove his guilt;
to prevent his being examined in relation to it against his
will. Any law, therefore, which, in terms or in effect, makes
him "a witness against himself" is within the clause. That
a law directly compelling him to testify would be within it,
will be admitted; and it is a rule of construction especially
applicable to a constitutional provision intended for the protection of the citizen, that what cannot be done directly,
cannot be done indirectly. Where the protection is intended
to be complete, it cannot be defeated by any evasion. What,
in this particular, does this law provide? Itdoes not say
that Mr. Garland shall be compelled "to be a witness against
himself;" but it does the same thing by providing that his
guilt is to be considered conclusively established unless he
will swear to his innocence. His refusal to swear that he is
not guilty is made the evidence of his guilt, and has the
same operation as his admission of his guilt. If this is not
a clear evasion of the clause, and fatal to the protection it is
designed to afford, there can be no evasion of it. The law
in question says, that unless the lawyer, who is already a
* 1 Kent's Commentaries, 409.

tConstitution, Article ii,

3.

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Reply for the Petitioner.

counsellor, will swear to his innocence of the imputed acts,
he shall not continue to be such counsellor, or, if he was not
before one, he shall not be admitted to that right. It constitutes, therefore, his oath the evidence of his innocence,
and his refusal to take it conclusive evidence of his guilt.
That this is its effect, if authority be needed, is decided in the
Pennsylvania case of 1espublica and Gibbs,*-and the Rhode
Island case of Green and Briggs.t The reasoning upon the
point in those cases, and especially that of Pittman, J., in
the latter case, is conclusive.
And here allow me to read an extract from a speech of the
late Lord Erskine.t It was made during the troubles we had
with England and Frarce, growing out of the Berlin and
Milan decrees, and the orders in council. It was said there
that parties were not obliged to do what those laws required,
and as they were not obliged the laws did them no harm.
Lord Erskine replied:
"Is it not adding insult to injury to say to America that her
shipping is not compelled to come into our ports, since they may
return back again I Let us suppose that his majesty had been
advised, while I was a practiser at the bar, to issue a proclamation that no barrister should go into Westminster Hall without
passing through a particular gate at which a tax was to be levied
on him. Should I have been told gravely that I was by no
means compelled by such a proclamation to pass through it?
Should I have been told that I might go back again to my
chambers with briefs, and sleep there in my empty bag, if I
liked? Would it be an answer to a market gardener in the
neighborhood of London, if conipelled to pass a similar gate
erected in every passage to Covent Garden, that he was by no
means compelled to bring his greens to market, as he might
stay at home with his family and starve?"
And that is what we are practically told is the ground on
which this law is to be upheld. The right to be a counsellor
in this court, it is said, is not a natural right; that it grows
* 3 Yeates, 429.

t 1 Curtis, 311.
Hansard's Parliamentary Debates, First Series, folio 10, p. 966.
VOL. Ir.

24

EX PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ot.

Reply for the Petitioner.

out of legislation; that it may be given, or it may not be
given; and as it may not be given, the legislature (in whom
the power is supposed to reside), if it thinks proper to give
it at all, may give it on ouch terms as it may prescribe; and
opposing counsel apply that doctrine even to a case in which
the right exists, for that is the condition of the gentleman
whom I am here representing. He has got your judgment,
and the legislature undertakes to say to him, "You shall no
longer enjoy that right, unless you will swear that you have
not done the things stated in the oath which we require you
to take;" and he is gravely told, "You are not obliged to
take it." Certainly, he is not obliged to take it. No man
is obliged to follow his occupation; but unless he takes it
he must starve, except he have other means of living.
III. The act is void, because it interferes with the rights
and powers conferred on the judicial department of the government by the third article of the Constitution. By that
article the entire judicial power of the United States is
vested in "one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts
as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish,
and the judges are to hold their ' office during good behavior,'" receiving a compensation for their services which
cannot be diminished.
When the Constitution was adopted, it was well known
that courts could not properly discharge their functions without the aid of counsel; and it was equally well known that
such a class of men, in a free government, was absolutely
necessary to the protection of the citizen and the defence
of constitutional liberty, whenever these might be involved,
as history had proved they often were, in prosecutions instituted by government. The existence and necessity of this
class, for the protection of the citizen, is recognized in the
amendment last referred to, securing to the accused, in a
criminal prosecution, "the assistance of counsel for his defence." And, further, by the thirty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, passed by a Congress in which were many of
the distinguished men who framed the Constitution, parties
are secured "the assistance of such counsel or attorneys-at-

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.

Reply for the Petitioner.

law as, by the rules of the said courts (courts of the United
States), respectively, shall be perifitted to manage and conduct causes therein." As before stated, Mkir. Garland, having
complied with the terms of your second rule, was admitted
as a counsellor of this court. Has Congress the authority
to reverse that judgment without this court's assent? This
the act does, if it be compulsory upon the court. The decision in .Ex parte Secombe* is, that the relations between a
court of the United States and the attorneys and counsellors
who practise in it, and their respective rights and duties, are
regulated by the common law; and that it has been well
settled by the rules and practice of common law courts, that
it rests exclusively with the court to determine who is qualified to become one of its officers as an attorney and counsellor, and for what cause he ought to be removed. Let us
consider this question for a few moments.
1st. The admission of counsel, and dismissal when admitted, is evidently, by the act of 1789, esteemed a power
inherent in the courts, and to be exercised by them alone;
and in the decision just quoted, it is held to be one resting
"exclusively" with the courts. This being so, the propriety
of its exercise cannot-be questioned by any other department
of the government. Belonging exclusively to the courts,
their judgment is conclusive.
2d. If this was not the rule, and Congress has authority
to interfere with or revise such judgments, if they can annul
them by legislation, as is done by the act in question, then
they possess a power which may be so used as to take from
the courts the benefit of counsel, and thereby necessarily
defeat the right secured to the accused in criminal prosecutions, of having "the assistance of counsel for his defence."
A power of this description is, I submit, wholly inconsistent
with the jurisdiction conferred upon the judicial department
of the government, and fatal to the objects for which that
department was created, and is directly in conflict with the
provision of the amendment just referred to.
* 19 Howard.

E X PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply for the Petitioner.

IV. IfI understand the Attorney-General, the only ground
upon which he maintains the validity of the act of 1865, is
that the right to be attorneys and counsellors of this court,
or of any court of the United States, is not a natural one,
but one given by law only; a right to be regulated at any
time by law, or not be given at all, or, when given, to be at
any time taken away. Without stopping to inquire whether
these propositions are correct, I deny, with perfect confidence, that Congress can prohibit the appearance of counsel
in the courts of the Union. The sixth amendment of the
Constitution, before quoted, secures to the accused, in a
criminal case, "the assistance of counsel for his defence."
This security is, therefore, not dependent upon, or subject
to, the power of Congress. They have no more authority
to deny an accused the assistance of counsel, than they have
to deny him a jury trial; or the right "to be informed of the
nature and cause of the accusation;" or "to be confronted
with the witnesses against him;" or "to have compulsory
process for obtaining witnesses in his favor." The right to
have counsel is as effectually secured as is either of the other
rights given by the amendment. If that, therefore, can be
taken away or impaired by legislation, either or all of the
other rights can be so taken away or impaired. It is true
that courts, by the common law, possess authority to adopt
rules for the admission of counsel; but this is to enable
them, for their own advantage and the benefit and protection of suitors, to obtain, not to exclude, lawyers of competent legal learning and of fair character. They have no
right to use the power so as to exclude them. On the contrary, it is one which it is their duty to execute to obtain
competent counsel. It would be not only in conflict with
the Constitution, but inconsistent with the principles of a
free government, that there should exist a power to deny
counsel. In a free country, courts without counsel could
not for a moment be tolerated. The hiistory of every such
government demonstrates that the safety of the citizen
greatly depends upon the existence of such a class of men.
The courts also require, for the safe and correct exercise of

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Reply for the Petitioner.

their own powers, their aid. The preservation of liberty
.itself demands counsel. In all the revolutionary struggles
of the past to attain or retain liberty, success, where it has
been achieved, has been ever owing greatly, if not principally, to their patriotic efforts. Congre.ss would, therefore,
but convert themselves into a mere assemblage of tyrants,
regardless of the safety of the citizen, recreant to the cause
of freedom, and forgetful of the guarantees of the Coustitution, if they attempted to deny to the courts and to the citizen the assistance of counsel.
V. Conceding, for argument sake, the constitutionality of
the act, Mr. Garland is saved from its operation by the President's pardon, with the terms of which he has complied.
By the second section of the second article of the Constitution, power is given to the President "to grant reprieves
and pardons for offences against the United States, except
in cases of impeachment." With that exception the power
is unlimited. It extends to every offence, and is intended
to relieve the party who may have committed it or who may
be charged with its commission, from all the punishments
of every description that the law, at the time of the pardon,
imposes.
That the law in question is a penal one I have already
proved. That the penalty which it imposes is for the offence
imputed to Mr. Garland, and of which he was technically
guilty, is also, I hope, made clear; for the offence is the one
assumed by the law, and in denying to him the right to continue a counsellor of this court, that denial was designed as
penalty. This being the design and effect of the law, there
can be no possible doubt that Mr. Garland is saved from
that penalty by his pardon.
May it please the court, every right-minded man-I should
think every man who -has within his bosom a heart capable
of sympathy-who is not the slave to a narrow political feeling-a feeling that does not embrace, as it ought-to do, a
nationl's happiness-must make it the subject of his daily
thoughts and of his prayers to God, that the hour may come,

Ex

PA1.TE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and come soon, when all the States shall be again within
the protecting shelter of the Union; enjoying, all of them,
its benefits, contented and happy and prosperous; 6haring
all of them, in its duties; devoted, all, to its principles, and
participating alike in its renown; that hour when former
differences shall be forgotten, and nothing remembered but
our ancient concord and the equal title we have to share in
the glories of the past, and to labor together for the even
greater glories of the future. And may I not, with truth,
assure your honors that this result will be hastened by the
bringing within these courts of the United States, a class of
men, now excluded, who, by education, character, and profession are especially qualified by their example to influence
the public sentiment of their respective States, and to bring
these States to the complete conviction which, it is believed,
they most largely entertain-that to support and defend the
Constitution of the United States, and the government constituted by it, in all its rightful authority, is not only essential to their people's happiness and freedom, but is a duty to
their country and their God.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
On the second of July, 1862, Congress passed an act prescribing an oath to be taken by every person elected or appointed to any office of honor or profit under the government of the United States, either in the civil, military, or
naval departments of the public service, except the President, before entering upon the duties of his office, and before
being entitled to its salary, or other emoluments. On the
24th of January, 1865, Congress, by a supplementary act, extended its provisions so as to embrace attorneys and counsellors of the courts of the United States. This latter act provides that after its passage no person shall be admitted as
an attorney and counsellor to the bar of the Supreme Court,
and, after the fourth of March, 1865, to the bar of any Circuit or District Court of the United States, or of the Court
of Claims, or be allowed to appear and be heard by virtue
of any previous admission, or any special power of attorney,

:Dec. 1866.]

eX PARTE GARLAND.
Opinion of the court.

unless he shall have first taken and subscribed the oath prescribed by the act of July 2d, 1862. It also provides that
the oath shall be preserved among the files of the court;
and if any person take it falsely he shall be guilty of perjury,
and, upon conviction, shall be subject to the pains and penalties of that offence.
At the December Term, 1860, the petitioner was admitted
as an attorney and counsellor of this court, and took and
subscribed the oath then required. By the second rule, as
it then existed, it was only requisite to the admission of attorneys and counsellors of this court, that they should have
been such officers for the three previous years in the highest
courts of the States to which they respectively belonged, and
that their private and professional character should appear
to be fair.
In March, 1865, this rule was changed by the addition of
a clause requiring the administration of the oath, in conformity with the act of Congress.
In May, 1861, the State of Arkansas, of which the petitioner was a citizen, passed an ordinance of secession, which
purported to withdraw the State from the Union, and afterwards, in the same year, by another ordinance, attached herself to the so--called Confederate States, and by act of the
congress of that confederacy was received as one of its members.
The petitioner followed the State, and was one of her representatives-first in the lower house, and afterwards in thesenate, of the congress of that confederacy, and was a member of the senate at the time of the surrender of the Confederate forces to the armies of the United States.
In July, 1865, .he received from the President of the
United States a full pardon for all offences committed by
his participation, direct or implied, in the Rebellion. He.
now produces his pardon, and asks permission to continue
to practise as an attorney and counsellor of the court without taking the oath required by the act of January 24th,
1865, and the rule of the court, which he is unable to take,
by reason of the offices he held under the Confederate gov-

Ex PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ernment. iHe rests his application principally upon two
grounds:
1st. That the act of January 24th, 1865, so far as it affects
his status in the court, is unconstitutional and void; and,
2d. That, if the act be constitutional, he is released from
compliance with its provisions by the pardon of the President.
The oath prescribed by the act is as follows:
1st. That the deponent has never voluntarily borne arms
against the United States since he has been a citizen thereof;
2d. That he has not voluntarily given aid, countenance,
counsel, or encouragement to persons engaged in armed
hostility thereto;
3d. That he has never sought, accepted, or attempted to
exercise the functions of any office whatsoever, under any
authority, or pretended authority, in hostility to the United
States;
4th. That he has not yielded a voluntary support to any
pretended government, authority, power, or constitution,
within the United States, hostile or inimical thereto; and,
5th. That he will support and defend the Constitution of
the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic,
and will bear true faith and allegiance to the same.
This last clause is promissory only, and requires no consideration. The questions presented for our determination
arise from the other clauses. These all relate to past acts.
Some of these acts constituted, when they were committed,
offences against the criminal laws of the country; others
may, or may not, have been offences according to the circumstances under which they were committed, and the motives of the parties. The first clause covers one form of the
crime of treason, and the deponent must declare that he has
not been guilty of this crime, not only during the war of the
Rebellion, but during any period of his life since he has
been a citizen. The second clause goes beyond the limits
of treason, and embraces not only the giving of aid and encouragement of a treasonable nature to a public enemy, but
also the giving of assistance of any kind to persons engaged

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Opinion of the court.

in armed hostility to the United States. The third clause
applies to the seeking, acceptance, or exercise not only of
offices created for the purpose of more effectually carrying
on hostilities, but also of any of those offices which are required in every community, whether in peace or war, for the
administration of justice and the preservation of order. The
fourth clause not only includes those who gave a cordial and
active support to the hostile government, but also those who
yielded a reluctant obedience to the existing order, established without their co-operation.
The statute is directed against parties who have offended
in any of the particulars embraced by these clauses. And
its object is to exclude them from the profession of the law,
or at least from its practice in the courts of the United
States. As the oath prescribed cannot be taken by these
parties, the act, as against them, operates as a legislative decree of perpetual exclusion. And exclusion from any of the
professions or any of the ordinary avocations of life for past
conduct can be regarded in no other light than as punishment for such conduct. The exaction of the oath is the
mode provided for ascertaining the parties upon whom the
act is intended to operate, and instead of lessening, increases
its objectionable characjer. All enactments of this kind partake of the nature of billsof pains and penalties, and are
subject to the constitutional inhibition against the passage
of bills of attainder, under which general designation they
are included.
In the exclusion which the statute adjudges it imposes a
punishment for some of the acts specified which were not
punishable at the time they were committed; and for other
of the acts it adds a new punishment to that before prescribed, and it is thus brought within the further inhibition
of the Constitution against the passage of an ex post facto
law. In the case of Cummings against The State of Missouri, just decided, we have had occasion to consider at
length thc meaning of a bill of attainder and of an ex post
facto law in the clause of the Constitution forbidding their
passage by the States, and it is unnecessary to repeat here

Ex
0

PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. OrL

Opinion of the court.

what we there said. A like prohibition is contained in the
Constitution against enactments of this kind by Congress;
and the argument presented in that case against certain
clauses of the constitution of Missouri is equally applicable
to the act of Congress under consideration in this case.
The profession of an attorney and counsellor is not like
an office created by an act .of Congress, which depends for
its continuance, its powers, and its emoluments upon the
will of its creator, and the possession of which may be burdened with any conditions not prohibited by the Constitution. Attorneys and counsellors are not officers of the
United States; they are not elected or appointed in the
manner prescribed by the Constitution for the election and
appointment of such officers. They are officers of the court,
admitted as such by its order, upon evidence of their possessing sufficient legal learning and fair private character.
It has been the general practice in this country to obtain'
this evidence by an examination of the parties. In this
court the fact of the admission of such officers in the
highest court of the States to which they respectively belong, for three years preceding their application, is regarded as sufficient evidence of the possession of the requisite legal learning, and the statement of counsel moving
their admission sufficient evidtence that their private and
professional character is fair. The order of admission is the
judgment of the court that the parties possess the requisite qualifications as attorneys and counsellors, and are entitled to appear as such and conduct causes therein. From
its entry the parties become officers of the court, and are
responsible to it for professional misconduct. They hold
their office during good behavior, and can only be deprived
of it for misconduct ascertained and declared by the judgment of the court after opportunity to be heard has been
afforded.* Their admission or their exclusion is not the
exercise of a mere ministerial power. It is the exercise of
* Ex parte Heyfron, 7 Howard, Mississippi, 127; Fletcher v. Daingerfield, 20 California, 430.

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.
Opinion of the court.

judicial power, and has been so held in numerous cases.
It was so held by the Court of Appeals of New York in the
matter of the application of Cooper for admission.* "Attorneys and counsellors," said that court, "are not only officers
of the court, but officers whose duties relate almost exclusively to proceedings of a judicial nature. And hence their
appointment may, with propriety, be intrustedto the courts,
and the latter in performing this duty inlay very justly be
considered as engaged in the exercise of their appropriate
judicial functions."
In Ex parte Seconmbe,t a mandamus to the Supreme Court
of the Territory of Minnesota to vacate an order removing
an attorney and counsellor was denied by this court, on
the ground that the removal was a judicial act. "We are
not aware of any case," said the court, "where a mandamus
was issued to an inferior tribunal, commanding it to reverse
or annul its decision, where the decision was in its nature a
judicial act and within the scope of its jurisdiction and discretion." And in the same case the court observed, that
"it has been well settled by the rules and practice of common law courts, that it rests exclusively with the court to
determine who is qualified to become one of its officers, as
an attorney and counsellor, and for what cause he ought to
be removed."
The attorney and counsellor being, by the solemn judicial
act of the court, clothed with his office, does not hold it as a
matter of grace and favor. The right which it confers upon
him to appear for suitors, and to argue causes, is something
more than a mere indulgence, revocable at the pleasure of
the court, or at the command of the legislature. It is a
right of which he can only be deprived by the judgment of
the court, for moral or professional delinquency.
The legislature may undoubtedly prescribe qualifications
for the office, to which he must conform, as it may, where
it has exclusive jurisdiction, prescribe qualifications for the
pursuit of any of the ordinary avocations of life. The
* 22 N~ew York, 81.

t- 19 Howard, 9.

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

question, in- this case, is not as to the power of Congress
to prescribe qualifications, but whether that power has been
exercised as a means for the infliction of punishment, against
the prohibition of the Constitution. That this result cannot
be effected indirectly by a State under the form of creating
qualifications we have held in the case of Cummings v. The
State of Missouri, and the reasoning by which that conclusion
was reached applies equally to similar action on the part of
Congress.
This view is strengthened by a consideration of the effect
of the pardon produced by the petitioner, and the nature
of the pardoning power of the President.
The Constitution provides that the President "shall have
power to grant reprieves and pardons for offences against
the United States, except in cases of impeachment."*
The power thus conferred is unlimited, with the exception
stated. It extends to every offence known to the law, and
may be exercised at any time aftr its commission, either
before legal proceedings are taken, or during their pendency, or after conviction and judgment. This power of the
President is not subject to legislative control. Congress
can neither limit the effect of his pardon, nor exclude from
its exercise any class of offenders. The benign prerogative
of mercy repoged in him cannot be fettered by any legislative restrictions.
Such being the case, the inquiry arises as to the effect and
operation of a pardon, and on this point all the authorities
concur. A pardon reaches both-the punishment prescribed
for the offence and the guilt of the offender; and when the
pardon is full, it releases the punishment and blots out of
existence the guilt, so that in the eye of the law the offender
is as innocent as if he had never committed the offence. If
granted before conviction, it prevents any of the penalties
and disabilities consequent upon conviction from attaching;
if granted after conviction, it removes the penalties and
disabilities, and restores him to all his civil rights; it makes
* Article II,

2.

Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

Opinion of the court.

him, as it were, a new man, and gives him a new credit and
capacity.
There is only this limitation to its operation: it does not
restore offices forfeited, or property or interests vested in
others in consequence of the conviction and judgment.*
The pardon produced by the petitioner is a full pardon
"for all offences by him committed, arising from participation, direct or implied, in the Rebellion," and is subject to
certain conditions which have been complied with. The
effect of this pardon is to relieve the petitioner from all
penalties and disabilities attached to the offence of treason,
committed by his participation in the Rebellion. So far as
that offence is concerned, he is thus placed beyond the reach
of punishment of any kind. But to exclude him, by reason
of that offence, from continuing in the enjoyment of a previously acquired right, is to enforce a punishment for that
offence notwithstanding the pardon. If such exclusion can
be effected by the exaction of an expurgatory oath covering
the offence, the pardon may be avoided,* and that accomplished indirectly which cannot be reached by direct legislation. It is not within the constitutional power of Congress
thus to inflict -punishment beyond the reach of executive
clemency. From the petitioner, therefore, the oath required
by the act of January 24th, 1865, could not be exacted, even
if that act were not subject to any other objection than the
one thus stated.
It follows, from the views expressed, that the prayer of
the petitioner must be granted.
The case of R. I. Marr is similar, in its main features, to
that of the petitioner, and his petition must also be granted.
And the amendment of the second rule of the court, which
requires the oath prescribed by the act of January 24th, 1865,
to be taken by attorneys and counsellors, having been unadvisedly adopted, must be rescinded.
AND IT IS S0 ORDERED.
* 4 Blackstone's Commentaries, 402; 6 Bacon's Abridgment, tit. Pardon;
Hawkins, book 2, c. 37,
34 and 54.

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of Miller, J., the C. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

Mr. Justice MKILLER, on behalf of himself and the
CHIEF JUSTICE, and Justices SWAY-E and DAVIS,
delivered the following dissenting opinion, which applies
also to the opinion delivered in Cummings v. Missouri. (See
supra, p. 316.)
I dissent from the opinions of the court just announced.
It may be hoped that the exceptional circumstances which
give present importance to these cases will soon pass away,
and that those who make the laws, both state and national,
will find in the conduct of the persons affected by the legislation just declared to be void, sufficient reason to repeal,
or essentially modify it.
For the speedy return of that better spirit, which shall
leave us no cause for such laws, all good men look with anxiety, and with a hope, I trust, not altogether unfounded.
But the question involved, relating, as it does, to the right
of the legislatures of the nation, and of ihe state, to exclude
from offices and places of high public trust, the administration of whose functions are essential to the very existence
of the government, those among its own citizens who have
been engaged in a recent effort to destroy that government
by force, can never cease to be one of profound interest.
It is at all times the exercise of an extremely delicate
power for this court to declare that the Congress of the nation, or the legislative body of a State, has assumed an
authority not belonging to it, and by violating the Constitution, has rendered void its attempt at legislation. In the
case of an act of Congress, which expresses the sense of the
members of a co~irdinate department of the government, as
much bound by their oath of office as we are to respect that
Constitution, and whose duty it is, as much as it is ours, to
be careful that no statute is passed in violation of it, the incompatibility of the act with the Constitution should be so
clear as to leave little reason for doubt, before we pronounce
it to be invalid.
Unable to see this incompatibility, either in the act of
Congress or in the provision of the constitution of Missouri,
upon which this court has just passed, but entertaining a

Dec. 1866.]

Ex PARTE GARLAND.

Opinion of Killer, J., the 0. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting-

strong conviction that both were within the competency of
the bodies which enacted them, it seems to me an occasion
which demands that my dissent from the judgment of the
court, and the reasons for that dissent, should be placed on
its records.
In the comments which I have to make upon these cases,
I shall speak, of principles equally applicable to both, although I shall refer more directly to that which involves
the oath required of attorneys by the act of Congress, reserving for the close some remarks more especially applicable to the oath prescribed by the constitution of the State
of Missouri.
The Constitution of the United States makes ample provisioin for the establishment of courts of justice to administer
her laws, and to protect and enforce the rights of her citizens.
Article iii, section 1, of that instrument, says that "the judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one
Supreme Court, and such inferior cou.rts as the Congress
may, from time to time, ordain and establish." Section 8
of article i, closes its enumeration of the powers conferred
on Congress by the broad declaration that it shall have
authority "to make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by the Constitution in the
government of the United States, or in any department
thereof."
Under these provisions, Congress has ordained and established circuit courts, district courts, and territorial courts;
and has, by various statutes, fixed the number of the judges
of the Supreme Court. It has limited and defined the jurisdiction of all these, and determined the salaries of the judges
who hold them. It has provided for their necessary officers,
as marshals, clerks, prosecuting attorneys, bailiffs, commissioners, and jurors. And by the act of 1789, commonly
called the Judiciary Act, passed by the first Congress assembled under the Constitution, it is among other things enacted, that "in all the courts of the United States the parties
may plead and manage their causes personally; or by the

884

Ex PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., the C. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

assistance of such counsel or attorneys-at-law as, by the rules
of the said courts respectively, shall be permitted to manage
and conduct causes therein."
It is believed that no civilized nation of modern times has
been without a class of men intimately connected with the
courts, and with the administration of justice, called variously attorneys, counsellors, solicitors, proctors, and other
terms of similar import. The enactment which we have
just cited recognizes this body of men, and their utility in
the judicial system of the United States, and imposes upon
the courts the duty of providing rules, by which persons entitled to become members of this class, may be permitted to
exercise the privilege of managing and conducting causes in

these courts. They are as essential to the successful working of the courts, as the clerks, sheriffs, and marshals, and
perhaps as the judges themselves, since no instance is known
of a court of law without a bar.
The right to practise law in the courts as a profession, is
a privilege granted by the law, under such limitations or
conditions in each state. or government as the law-making
power may prescribe. It is a privilege, and not an absolute
right. The distinction may be illustrated by the difference
between the right of a party to a suit in court to defend his
own cause, and the right of another to appear and defend
for him. The one, like the right to life, liberty, and the
pursuit of happiness, is inalienable. The other is the privilege conferred by law on a person who complies with the
prescribed conditions.
Every State in the Union, and every civilized government,
has laws by which the right to practise in its courts may be
granted, and makes that right to depend on the good moral
character and professional skill of the party on whom the
privilege is conferred. This is not only true in reference to
the first grant of license to practise law, but the continuance
of the right is made, by these laws, to depend upon the continued possession of those qualities.
Attorneys are often deprived of this right, upon evidence
of bad moral character, or specific acts of immorality or dis-

Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.

Opinion of Miller, J., the 0. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

honesty, which show that they no longer possess the requisite qualifications.
All this is done by law, either statutory or common; and
whether the one or the other, equally the expression of legislative will, for the common law exists in this country only
as it is adopted or permitted by the legislatures, or by constitutions.
No reason is perceived why this body of men, in their important relations to the courts of the nation, are not subject
to the action of Congress, to the same extent that they are
under legislative control in the States, or in any other government; and to the same extent that the judges, clerks,
marshals, and other officers of the court are subject to congressional legislation. Having the power to establish the
courts, to provide for and regulate the practice in those
courts, to create their officers, and prescribe their functions,
can it be doubted that Congress has the full right to prescribe terms for the admission, rejection, and expulsion of
attorneys, and for requiring of them an oath, to show
whether they have the proper qualifications for the discharge of their duties?
The act which has just been declared to be unconstitutional is nothing more than a statute which requires of all
lawyers who propose to practise in the national courts, that
they shall take the same oath which is exacted of every officer of the government, civil or military. This oath has two
aspects; one which looks to the past conduct of the party,
and one to his future conduct; but both have reference to
his disposition to support or to overturn the government, in
whose functions he proposes to take part. In substance, he
is required to swear that he has not been guilty of treason
to that government in the past, and that he will bear faithful
allegiance to it in the future.
That fidelity to the government under which he lives, a
true and loyal attachment to it, and a sincere desire for its
preservation, are among the most essential qualifications
which should be required in a lawyer, seems to me to be
too clear for argument. The history of the Anglo-Saxon
VOL. IV.

25

EX PAlaTE GARLAND.

[Sup. GL

Opinion of Miller, J., the C. J., and Swayne and Davis, J3., dissenting.

race shows that, for ages past, the members of the legal profession have been powerful for good or evil to the government. They are, by the nature of their duties, the moulders
of public sentiment on questions of government, and are
every day engaged in aiding in the construction and enforcement of the laws. From among their numbers are necessarily selected the judges who expound the laws and the
Constitution. To suffer treasonable sentiments to spread
here unchecked, is to permit the stream on which the life
of the nation depends to be poisoned at its source.
In illustration of this truth, I venture to affirm, that if all
the members of the legal profession in the States lately in
insurrection had possessed the qualification of a loyal and
faithful allegiance to the government, we should have been
spared the horrors of that Rebellion. If, then, this qualification be so essential in a lawyer, it cannot be denied that
the statute under consideration was eminently calculated to
secure that result.
The majority of this court, however, do not base their decisions on the mere absence of authority in Congress, and in
the States, to enact the laws which are the subject of consideration, but insist that the Constitution of the United
States forbids, in prohibitory terms, the passage of such
laws, both to the Congress and to the States. The provisions of that instrument, relied on to sustain this doctrine,
are those which forbid Congress and the States, respectively,
from passing bills of attainder and ex post facto laws. It is
said that the act of Congress, and the provision of the constitution of the State of Missouri under review, are in conflict with both these prohibitions, and are therefore void.
I will examine this proposition, in reference to these two
clauses of the Constitution, in the order in which they occur
in that instrument.
1. In regard to bills of attainder, I am not aware of any
judicial decision by a court of Federal jurisdiction which
undertakes to give a definition of that term. We are therefore compelled to recur to the bills of attainder passed by
the English Parliament, that we may learn so much of their

Dec. 1866.1

EX PARTE GARLAND.

Opinion of Miller, J., the C. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

peculiar characteristics, as will enable us to arrive at a sound
conclusion, as to what was intended to be prohibited by the
Constitution.
The word attainder is derived, by Sir Thomas Tomlins, in
his law dictionary, from the words attineta and attinetura,and
is defined to be "the stain or corruption of the blood of a
criminal capitally condemned; the immediate inseparable
consequence of the common law, on the pronouncing the
sentence of death." The effect of this corruption of the
blood was, that the party attainted lost all inheritable quality, and could neither receive nor transmit any property or
other rights by inheritance.
This attainder or corruption of blood, as a consequence of
judicial sentence of death, continued to be the law of England, in all cases of treason, to the time that our Constitution was framed, and, for aught that is known to me, is the
law of that country, on condemnation for treason, at this
day.
Bills of attainder, therefore, or acts of attainder, as they
were called after they were passed into statutes, were laws
which declared certain persons attainted,and their blood corrupted so that it had lost all heritable quality. Whether it
declared other punishment or not, it was an act of attainder
if it declared this. This also seems to have been the main
feature at which the authors of the Constitution were directing their prohibition; for after having, in article i, prohibited the passage of bills of attainder-in section nine, to
Congress, and in section ten, to the States-there still remained to the judiciary the power of declaring attainders.
Therefore, to still further guard against this odious form of
punishment, it -is provided, in section three of article iii,
concerning the judiciary, that, while Congress shall have
power to declare the punishment of treason, no attainder of
treason shall work corruption of blood or forfeiture, except
during the life of the person attainted.
This, however, while it was the chief, was not the only
peculiarity of bills of attainder which was intended to be included within the constitutional restriction. Upon an atten-

[Slip. Ct.

EX PARTE GARLAND.

Opinion of Miller, J., the C. J., and Swayne-and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

tive examination of the distinctive features of this kind of
legislation, I think it will be found that the following comprise those essential elements of bills of attainder, in addition
to the one already mentioned, which distinguish them from
other legislation, and which made them so obnoxious to the
statesmen who organized our government:
1. They were convictions and sentences pronounced by
the legislative department of the government, instead of the
judicial.
2. The sentence pronounced and the punishment inflicted
were determined by no previous law or fixed rule.
3. The investigation into the guilt of the accused, if any
such were made, was not necessarily or generally conducted
in his presence, or that of his counsel, and no recognized
rule of evidence governed the inquiry.*
It is no cause for wonder that men who had just passed
successfully through a desperate struggle in behalf of civil
liberty should feel a detestation for legislation of which these
were the prominent features. The framers of our political
system had a full appreciation of the necessity of keeping
separate and distinct the primary departments of the government. M~r. Hamilton, in the seventy-eighth number of the
Federalist, says that he agrees with the maxim of MIontesquieu, that "there is no liberty if the power of judging be
not separated from the legislative and executive powers."
And others of the ablest numbers of that publication are devoted to the purpose of showing that in our Constitution
these powers are so justly balanced and restrained that
neither will probably be able to make much encroachment
upon the others. Nor was it less repugnant to their views
of th security of personal rights, that any person should be
condemned without a hearing, and punished without a law
previously prescribing the nature ad extent of that punishment. They therefore struck boldly at all this machinery
of legislative despotism, by forbidding the passage of bills
of attainder and ex posi facto laws, both to Congress and to
the States.
* See Story on the Constitution,

1344.

Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

Opinion of Mliller, J., the 0. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

It remains to inquire whether, in the act of Congress under
consideration (and the remarks apply with equal force to the
Missouri constitution), there is faund any one of these features of bills of attainder; and if so, whether there is sufficient in the act to bring it fairly within the description of
that class of bills.
It is not claimed that the law works a corruption of blood.
It will, therefore, be conceded at once, that the act does not
contain this leading feature of bills of attainder.
Nor am I capable of seeing that it contains a conviction
or sentence of any designated person or persons. It is said
that it is not necessary to a bill of attainder that the party to
be affected should be named in the act, and the attainder
of the Earl of Kildare and his associates is referred to as
showing that the act was aimed at a class. It is very true
that bills of attainder have been passed against persons by
some description, when their names were unknown. But
in such cases the law leaves nothing to be done to render its
operation effectual, but to identify those persons. Their
guilt, its nature, and its punishment are fixed by the statute,
and only their personal identity remains to be made out.
Such was the case alluded to. The act declared the guilt
and Punishment of the Earl of Kildare, and all who were
associated with him in his enterprise, and all that was required to insure their punishment was to prove that association.
If this were not so, then the act was mere brutum fumen,
and the parties other than the earl could only be punished,
notwithstanding the act, by proof of their guilt before some
competent tribunal.
No person is pointed out in the act of Congress, either by
name or by description, against whom it is to operate. The
oath is only required of those who propose to accept an office
or to practise law; and as a prerequisite to the exercise of
the functions of the lawyer, or the officer, it is demanded
of all persons alike. It is said to be directed, as a class, to
those alone who were engaged in the Rebellion; but this is
manifestly incorrect, as the oath is exacted alike from the

EX PARTE GARLLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., the 0. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

loyal and disloyal, under the same circumstances, and none
are compelled to take it. Neither does the act declare any
conviction, either of persons or classes. If so, who are they,
and of what crime are they declared to be guilty? Nor does
it pr6nounce any sentence, or inflict any punishment. If
by any possibility it can be said to provide for conviction and
sentence, though not found in the act itself, it leaves the
party himself to determine his own guilt or innocence, and
pronounce his own sentence. It is not, then, the act of
Congress, but the pa rty interested, that tries and condemns.
We shall see, when we come to the discussion of this act in
its relation to ex post facto laws, that it inflicts no punishment.
A statute, then, which designates no criminal, either by
name or description-which declares no guilt, pronounces
no sentence, and inflicts no punishment-can in no sense
be called a bill of attainder.
2. Passing now to consider whether the statute is an ex
postfacto law, we find that the meaning of that term, as used
in the Constitution, is a matter which has been frequently
before this court, and it has been so well defined as to leave
no room for controversy. The only doubt which can arise
is as to the character of the particular case claimed to come
within the definition, and not as to the definition of the
phrase itself.
All the cases agree that the term is to be applied to criminal causes alone, and not to civil proceedings.
In the
language of Justice Story, in the case of Matson v. Mllercer,*
"Ex post facto laws relate to penal and criminal proceedings, which impose punishment and forfeiture, and not to
civil proceedings, which affect private rights retrospectively."t
The first case on the subject is that of Calder v. Bull, and
it is the one in which the doctrine concerning ex post facto
laws is most fully expounded. The court divides all laws
* 8 Peters, 88.

t Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 386; Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 87; Ogden v.
Saunders, 12 Wheaton, 266; Satterlee v. Matthewson, 2 Peters, 380.

:Dec. 1866.]

EX PARTE GARLAND.

891

Opinion of Uiller, J., the C. J , and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

which come within the meaning of that clause of the Con.
stitution into four classes:
1st. Every law that makes an action done before the passing of the law, and which was innocent when done, criminal,
and punishes such action.
2d. Every law that aggravates a crime, or makes it greater
than it was when committed.
3d. Every law that changes the punishment, and inflicts a
greater punishment than the law annexed to the crime when
committed.
4th. Every law that alters the rule of evidence, and receives less or different testimony than the law required at
the time of the commission of the offence to convict the
offender.
Again, the court says, in the same opinion, that "the true
distinction is between ex post facto laws, and retrospective
laws;" and proceeds to show that, however unjust the latter
may be, they ard not prohibited by the Constitution, while
the former are.
This exposition of the nature of ex post facto laws has
never been denied, nor has any court or any commentator
on the Constitution added to the classes of laws here set
forth, as coming within that clause of the organic law. In
looking carefully at these four classes of laws, two things
strike the mind as common to them all:
1st. That they contemplate the trial of some person
charged with an offence.
2d. That they contemplate a punishment of the person
found guilty of such offence.
Kow, it seems to me impossible to show that the law in
question contemplates either the trial of a person for an
offence committed before its passage, or the punishment of
any person for such an offence. It is true that the act requiring an oath provides a penalty for falsely taking it. But
this provision is prospective, as no one is supposed to take
the oath until after the passage of the law. This prospective
penalty is the only thing in the law which partakes of a criminal character. It is in all other respects a civil proceeding.

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., the C. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

it is simply an oath of office, and it is required of all officeholders alike. As far as I am informed, this is the first time
in the history of jurisprudence that taking an oath of office
has been called a criminal proceeding. If it is not a criminal proceeding, then, by all the authorities, it is not an ex
post facto law.
No trial of any person is contemplated by the act for any
past offence. Nor is any party supposed to be charged with
any offence in the only proceeding which the law provides.
A person proposing to appear in the court as an attorney
is asked to take a certain oath. There is no charge made
against him that he has been guilty of any of the crimes
mentioned in that oath. There is no prosecution. There
is not even an implication of guilt by reason of tendering
him the oath, for it is required of the man who has lost
everything in defence of the government, and whose loyalty
is written in the honorable scars which cover his body, the
same as of the guiltiest traitor in the land. His refusal to
take the oath subjects him to no prosecution. His taking it
clears him of no guilt, and acquits him of no charge.
Where, then, is this ex postfacto law which tries and punishes a man for a crime committed before it was passed? It
can only be found in those elastic rules of construction
which cramp the powers of the Federal government when
they are to be exercised in certain directions, and enlarges
them when they are to be exercised in others. No more
striking example of this could be given than the cases before us, in one of which the Constitution of the United
States is held to confer no power on Congress to prevent
traitors practising in her courts, while in the other it is held
to confer power on this court to nullify a provision of the
constitution of the State of 'Missouri, relating to a qualification required of ministers of religion.
But the fatal vice in the reasoning of the majority is in
the meaning which they attach to the word punishment, in
its application to this law, and in its relation to the definitions
which have been given of the phrase, ex postficto laws.
Webster's second definition of the word "punish" is this:

:Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

Opinion of Miller, J., the C. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

"In a loose sense, to afflict with punishment, &c., with a
view to amendment, to chasten." And it ig in this loose
sense that the word is used by this court, as synonymous
with chastisement, correction, loss, or suffering to the party
supposed to be punished, and not in the legal sense, which
signifies a penalty inflicted for the commission of crime.
And so, in this sense, it is said that whereas persons who
had been guilty of the offences mentioned in the oath were,
by the laws then in force, only liable to be punished with
death and confiscation of all their property, they are by a
law passed since these offences were committed, made liable
to the enormous additional punishment of being deprived
of the right to practise law !
The law in question does not in reality deprive a person
guilty of the acts therein described of any right which he
possessed before; for it is equally sound law, as it is the dictate of good sense, that a person who, in the language of the
act, has voluntarily borne arms against the government of
the United States while a citizen thereof, or who has voluntarily given aid, comfort, counsel, or encouragement to persons engaged in armed hostility to the government, has, by
doing those things, forfeited his right to appear in her
courts and take part in the administration of her laws.
Such a person has exhibited a trait of character which, without the aid of the law in question, authorizes the court to
declare him unfit to practise before it, and to strike his name
from the roll of its attorneys if it be found there.
I have already shown that this act provides foino indictment or other charge, that it contemplates and admits of no
trial, and I now proceed to show that even if the right of
the court to prevent an attorney, guilty of the acts mentioned, from appearing in its forum, depended upon the
statute, that still it inflicts no punishment in the legal sense
of that term.
"Punishment," says Mr. Wharton in his Law Lexicon,
"is the n,nalty for transgressing the laws;" and this is, perhaps, as comprehensive and at the same time as accurate a
definition as can be given. IYow, what law is it whose trans-

Ex PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. O'

Opinion of Miller, J., the C. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

gression is punished in the case before us? None is referred

to in the act, and there is nothing on its face to show that it
was intended as an additional punishment for any offence
described in any other act. A part of the matters of which
the applicant is required to purge himself on oath may
amount to treason, but surely there could be no intention
or desire to inflict this small additional punishment for a
crime whose penalty already was death and confiscation of
property.
In fact the word punishment is used by the court in a
sense which would make a great number of laws, partaking
in no sense of a criminal character, laws for punishment,
and therefore ex post facto.
A law, for instance, which increased the facility for detecting frauds by compelling a party to a civil proceeding to
disclose his transactions under oath would result in his punishment in this sense, if it compelled him to pay an honest
debt which could not be coerced from him before. But this
law comes clearly within the class described by this court in
Watson v. Mfercer, as civil proceedings which affect private
rights retrospectively.
Again, let us suppQse that several persons afflicted with a
form of insanity heretofore deemed harmless, shall be found
all at once to be dangerous to the lives of persons with whom
they associate. The State, therefore, passes a law that all
persons so affected shall be kept in close confinement until
their recovery is assured. Here is a case of punishment in
the sense used by the court for a matter existing before the
passage of the law. Is it an expostfacto law? And, if not,
in what does it differ from one? Just in the same manner
that the act of Congress does, namely, that the proceeding
is civil and not criminal, and that the imprisonment in the
one case and the prohibition to practise law in the other, are
not punishments in the legal meaning of that term.
The civil law maxim, "INemo debet bis vexari, pro un et
eadan causd," has been long since adopted into the common
law as applicable both to civil and criminal proceedings, and
one of the amendments of the Constitution incorporates this

Dec. 1866.]

. ExPARTE

GARLAND.

Opinion of Iiller, J., the C. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

principle into that instrument so far as punishment affects
life or limb. It results from this rule, that no man can be
twice lawfully punished for the same offence. We have already seen that the acts of which the party is required to
purge himself on oath cons dtute the crime of treason. Now,
if the judgment of the court in the cases before us, instead of
permitting the parties to appear without taking the oath,
had been the other way, here would have been the case of a
person who, on the reasoning of the majority, is punished
by the judgment of this court for the same acts which constitute the crime of treason.
Yet, if the applicant here should afterwards be indicted
for treason on account of these same acts, no one will pretend that the proceedings here could be successfully pleaded
in bar of that indictment. But why not? Simply because
there is here neither trial nor punishment within the legal
meaning of these terms.
I maintain that the purpose of the act of Congress was to
require loyalty as a qualification of all who practise law in
the national courts. The majority say that the purpose was
to impose a punishment for past acts of disloyalty.
In pressing this argument it is conteinded by the majority
that no requirement can be justly said to be a qualification
which is not attainable by all, and that to demand a qualification not attainable by all is a punishment.
The Constitution of the United States provides as a qualification for the offices of President and Vice-President that
the person elected must be a native-born citizen. Is this a
punishment to all those naturalized citizens who can never
attain that qualification? The constitutions of nearly all the
States require as a qualification for voting that the Voter
shall be a white male citizen. Is this a punishment for all
the blacks who can never become white?
Again, it was a qualification required by some of the
State constitutions, for the office of judge, that the person
should not be over sixty years of age. To a very large
number of the ablest lawyers in any State this is a qualification to which they can never attain, for every year re-

Ex PARTE GARLAISD.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of Miller, J., the 0. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

moves them farther away from the designated age. Is it a
punishment?
The distinguished commentator on American law, and
chancellor of the State of New York, was deprived of that
office by this provision of the constitution of that State, and
he was thus, in the midst of his usefulness, not only turned
out of office, but he was forever disqualified from holding it
again, by a law passed after he had accepted the office.This is a much stronger case than that of a disloyal attorney forbid by law to practise in the courts, yet no one ever
thought the law was ex postfacto in the sense of the Constitution of the United States.
Illustrations of this kind could be multiplied indefinitely,
but they are unnecessary.
The history of the time when this statute was passed-the
darkest hour of our great struggle-the necessity for its existence, the humane character of the President who signed
the bill, and the face of the law itself, all show that it was
purely a qualification, exacted in self-defence, of all who
took part in administering the government in any of its departments, and that it was not passed for the purpose of inflicting punishment, however merited, for past offences.
I think I have now shown that the statute in question is
within the legislative power of Congress in its control over
the courts and their officers, and that it was not void as
being either a bill of attainder or an ex post facto law.
If I am right on the questions of qualification and punishment, that discussion disposes also of the proposition, that
the pardon of the President relieves the party accepting it
of the necessity of taking the oath, even if the law be valid.
I am willing to concede that the presidential pardon relieves the party from all the penalties, or in other words,
from all the punishment, which the law inflicted for his
offence. But it relieves him ftom nothing more. If the
oath required as a condition to practising law is not a punishment, as I think I have shown it is not, then the pardon
of the President has no "effect in releasing him from the requirement to take it. If it is a qualification which Congress

Dec. 1866.]

Ex

PARTE GARLAND.

Opinion of Miller, J., the 0. J., and Swayne and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

had a right to prescribe as necessary to an attorney, then
the President cannot, by pardon or otherwise, dispense with
the law requiring such qualification.
This is not only the plain rule as between the legislative
and executive departments of the government, but it is the
declaration of common sense. The man who, by counterfeiting, by theft, by murder, or by treason, is rendered unfit
to exercise the functions of an attorney or counsellor-at-law,
may be saved by the executive pardon from the penitentiary
or the gallows, but is not thereby restored to the qualifications which are essential to admission to the bar. No doubt
it will be found' that very many persons among those who
cannot take this oath, deserve to be relieved from the prohibition of the law; but this in no wise depends upon the
act of the President in giving or refusing a pardon. It remains to the legislative power alone to prescribe under what
circumstances this relief shall be extended.
In regard to the case of Gammings v. The State of Missouri,
allusions have been made in the course of argument to the
sanctity of the ministerial office, and to the inviolability of
religious freedom in this country.
But no attempt has been made to show that the Constitution of the United States interposes any such protection between the State governments and their own citizens. Nor
can anything of this kind be shown. The Federal Constitution contains but two provisions on this subject. One of
these forbids Congress to make any law respecting the establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise
thereof. The other is, that no religious test shall ever be
required as a qualification to any office or public trust under
the United States.
No restraint is placed by that instrument on the action of
the States; but on the contrary, in the language of Story,*
"the whole power over the subject of religion is left exclusively to the State governments, to be acted upon according
to their own sense of justice and the State constitutions."
Commentaries on the Constitution,

1878.

Ex PARTE GARLAND.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of Miller, J., the 0. J., and Swayno and Davis, JJ., dissenting.

If there ever was a case calling upon this court to exercise
all the power on this subject which properly belongs to it,
it was the case of the Rev. B. Permoli.*
An ordinance of the first municipality of the city of New
Orleans imposed a penalty on any priest who should officiate
at-any funeral, in any other church than the obituary chapel.
Mr. Permoli, a Catholic priest, performed the funeral services of his church over the body of one of his parishioners,
inclosed in a coffin, in the Roman Catholic Church of St.
Augustine. For this be was fined, and relying upon the
vague idea advanced here, that the Federal Constitution
protected him in the exercise of his holy functions, he
brought the case to this court.
But hard as that case was, the court replied to him in
the following language " The Constitution (of the United
States) makes no provision for protecting the citizens of the
respective States in their religious liberties; this is left to
the -State constitutions and laws; nor is there any inhibition
imposed by the Constitution of the United States in this respect on the States." Mr. Permoli's writ of error was, therefore, dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
In that case an ordinance of a mere local corporation forbid a priest, loyal to his government, from performing what
he believed to be the necessary rites of his church over the
body of his departed friend. This court said it could give
him no relief.
In this case the constitution of the State of Missouri, the
fundamental law of the people of that State, adopted by
their popular vote, declares that no priest of any church
shall exercise his ministerial functions, unless he will show,
by his own oath, that he has borne a true allegiance to his
government. This court now holds this constitutional provision void, on the ground that the Federal Constitution
forbids it. I leave the two cases to speak for themselves.
In the discussion of these cases I have said nothing, on
the one hand, of the great evils inflicted on the country by
* 3 Howard, 689.

Dec. 1866.]

BARROWS

V.

MIXDRED.

Statement of the case.

the voluntary action of many of those persons affected by
the laws under consideration; nor, on the other hand, of
the hardships which they are now suffering, much more as
a consequence of that action than of any laws which Congress can possibly frame. But I have endeavored to bring
to the examination of the grave questions of constitutional
law involved in this inquiry those principles alone which
are calculated to assist in determining what the law is,
rather than what, in my private judgment, it ought to be.

BARROWS V. KINDRED.
Although when statute abolishing its fictitious forms places the action of
ejectment on the same footing with other actions, as to the conclusiveness of the judgment, the court will give effect to the same; yet where
a plaintiff in ejectment is defeated in one suit, where he claimed through
a power of attorney rightly ruled out on the trial as void, he will not
be held to be concluded in a subsequent action where he claims under a
new deed made by the executors themselves. Having acquired a new
and distinct title, he has the same right to assert it, without prejudice
from the former suit, as a stranger would have had it passed to him.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Illinois; the case being thus:
The statute of Illinois regulating the action of ejectment
abolishes all fictions. Its twenty-ninth section provides that
"every judgment in the action of ejectment rendered upon
a verdict shall be conclusive as to the title established in
such action, upon the party against whom the same is rendered, and against all persons claiming from, through, or
under such party, by title accruing after the commencement
of such action, subject to the exceptions hereinafter named,"
exceptions not material to be noticed. With this statute in
force, the plaintiff in error brought an action of ejectment
against the defendant in error in the court below, and upon
the trial produced a chain of title, consisting of a patent

