REINA v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

REINA v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 29. Argued November 7-8, 1960.Decided December 19, 1960.
While serving a sentence for a federal narcotics offense, petitioner Was
summoned before a federal grand jury and asked questions concerning his crime, particularly as to the persons involved with him
and their activities in smuggling narcotics into this country from
Europe. He invoked his privilege against self-incrimination under
the Fifth Amendment and refused to answer. Acting pursuant to
18 U. S. C. § 1406, which grants immunity from prosecution to a
witness compelled to testify before a grand jury, the United States
Attorney, with the approval of the Attorney General, obtained a
court order directing petitioner to testify. He again refused to
do so and was adjudged guilty of criminal contempt. Held: The
conviction is sustained. 'Pp. 508-515.
1. The immunity provided by § 1406 covers state, as well as
federal, prosecutions. P. 510.
2. As so construed, § 1406 is constitutional, since the grant of
immunity from state prosecution is necessary and proper to the
more effective execution -of the undoubted power of Congress to
enact the narcotics laws. Pp. 510-512.
3. The grant of immunity from future state and federal prosecution was at least coextensive with petitioner's constitutional
privilege against self-incrimination, and it was not necessary that
he be pardoned or granted amnesty covering the unserved portion
of his sentence and his fine for the offense of which he had previously been convicted. Pp. 512-514.
4. Since the District Court provided that petitioner's sentence
to two years' imprisonment for criminal contempt should be vacated if petitioner should purge himself of his contempt by appearing before the grand jury and answering the questions within 60
days from the date of the judgment, and this Court construes the
60-day period as running from the effective date of this Court's

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

mandate, it is not necessary to pass on the questions whether the
sentence was excessive or whether the conviction was invalid because
the District Court did not advise petitioner of the extent of the
immunity conferred by § 1406. Pp. 514-515.
273 F. 2d 234, affirmed.

Allen S. Stim argued the cause for petitioner.
him on the brief was Menahem Stim.

With

Oscar H. Davis argued the cause for the United States.
On the briefs were Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant
Attorney General Wilkey, Beatrice Rosenberg, J. F.
Bishop and Robert S. Erdahl.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Narcotic Control Act of 1956,' 18 U. S. C. § 1406,
legislates immunity from prosecution for a witness compelled under the section by court order to testify before
a federal grand jury investigating alleged violations of the
federal narcotics laws. The questions presented are,
primarily, whether the section grants immunity from
'Act of July 18, 1956, 70 Stat. 572 et seq.; 18 U. S. C. § 1401
et seq. The relevant portions of § 1406 are as follows:
"§ 1406. Immunity of witnesses.
"Whenever in the judgment of a United States attorney the testimony of any witness . .. in any case or proceeding before any grand
jury or court of the United States involving any violation of [certain
federal narcotics statutes) . . . is necessary to the public ipterest, he,
upon the approval of the Attorney General, shall make application
to the court that the witness shall be instructed to testify ....
But no such witness shall be prosecuted or subjected to any penalty
or forfeiture for or on account of any transaction, matter; or thing
concerning which he is compelled, after having claimed his privilege
against self-incrimination, to testify . . . nor shall testimony so compelled be used as evidence in any criminal proceeding . . . against
him in any court.. .. "'

REINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

Opinion, of the Court.

state, as well as federal, prosecution, and, if state immunity, whether tho section is constitutional.
The petitioner was serving a five-year sentence for a
federal narcotics offense 2 when, on December 5, 1958, he
was subpoenaed before a federal grand jury sitting in the
Southern District of New York. A number of questions
were asked him concerning his crime, particularly as to
the persons involved with him and their activities in the
smuggling of narcotics into this country from Europe.
The petitioner invoked the provision of the Fifth Amendment against being compelled to be a witness against himself' and refused to answer any of the questions. The
United States Attorney with the approval of the Attorney
General obtained a court order pursuant to § 1406 directing him to answer. When he returned before the grand
jury he again refused to testify. Proceedings against him
in criminal contempt resulted in the judgment under
review adjudging him guilty as charged. 170 F. Supp.
592. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
affirmed. 273 F. 2d 234. Because of the importance of
the questions of the cotistruction and constitutionality of
§ 1406 raised by the case, we granted certiorari, 362 U. S.
939.
Petitioner's main argument in both courts below and
here challenges § 1406 s granting him only federal immunity, and not state immunity, either because Congress
meant the statute to be thus limited, or because the
statute, if construed also to grant state immunity, would
be unconstitutional. Both cot~ts below passed the question whether the statute grants state immunity because,
United States v. Reina, 242 F. 2d 302. When petitioner appeared
before the, grand jury on December 5, 1958, he had served about two
years and eight months of this five-year term, He completed the
sentence on November 21, 1959.
3 "No person . . . shall be compelled in any criminal case to be
2

a witness against himself . ..

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

assuming only federal immunity is granted, they held
that United States V. Murdoek, 284 U. S. 141, settled
that the Fifth Amendment does not protect a federal witness from answering questions which might incriminate
him under state law. 170 F. Supp., at 595; 273 F. 2d,
at 235. Petitioner contends that Murdock should be
re-examined and overruled. We have no occasion to
consider this contention, since in our view § 1406 constitutionally grants immunity from both federal and state
prosecutions.
We consider first whether the immunity provided by
§ 1406 covers state, as well as federal, prosecutions. We
have no doubt the section legislates immunity from both.
The relevant words of the section have appeared in other
immunity statutes and have been construed by this Court
to cover both state and federal immunity. In Adams v.
Maryland, 347 U. S. 179, a like provision in 18 U. S. C.
§ 3486 that the compelled testimony shall not "be used
as evidence in any criminal proceeding . . . against him
in any court" was held to cover both federal and state
courts. (Emphasis supplied.) The "Language could be
no plainer," p. 181. In Ullmann V. United States, 350
U. S. 422, 434-435, 18 U. S. C. § 3486 (c), added by the
Immunity Act of 1954, of which § 1406 is virtually a carbon copy, was given the same construction. Moreover,
the adoption of § 1406 followed close upon.the Ullmann
decision. That decision came down on March 26, 1956.
Section 1406 was reported out of the House Ways and
Means Committee only three months later an June 19,
1956, H. R. Rep. No. 2388, 84th Cong., 2d Sess. It became
law on July 18, 1956. 70 Stat. 574. We cannot believe
that Congress would have used in § 1406 the very words
construed in Ullmann to cover both state and federal
prosecutions without giving the words the same meaning.
We turn then to the petitioner's argument that, so con•strued, § 1406 encroaches on the police powers reserved

REINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

Opinion of the Court.

to the States under the Tenth Amendment. The petitioner recognizes that in Ullmann the Court upheld the
authority of Congress to grant state immunity as "necessary and proper" to carry out the power to provide for the
national defense; and in Adams v. Maryland upheld the
power of Congress to preclude, the States from using testimony that was compelled under former § 3486 before a
congressional investigating committee. He' insists, however, that the congressional authority to enact narcotics
laws-rested on the Commerce Clause, Brolan v. United
States, 236 U. S. 216, 218; Yee Hem v.-United States,
268 U. S. 178; or the taxing power, United States v.
Doremus, 249 U. S. 86; Alston v. United States, 274 U. S.
289; Nigro v. United States, 276 U. S. 332, 351-354;
United States v. Sanchez, 340 U. S. 42-is not broad
enough to encompass the legislation of immunity against
state prosecution under state narcotics laws, "a subject
that has traditionally been within the police power of the
state." But the petitioner misconceives the reach of the
principle applied in Ullmann and Adams v. Maryland.
Congress may legislate immunity restricting the exercise
of state power to the extent necessary and proper for the
more effective exercise of a granted power, and distinctions
based upon the particular granted power concerned have
no support in the Constitution. See Brown v. Walker,
161 U. S. 591, in which the Court upheld a federal immunity statute passed in the name of the Commerce Clause
and construed that statute to apply to state prosecutions.
The relevant inquiry here is thus simply whether the legislated state immunity is necessary and proper to the more
effective enforcement of the undoubted power to enact thE
narcotics laws.
It can hardly be questioned that Congress had a rational
basis for supposing that the grant of state as well as federal immunity would aid in the detection of violations
and hence the more effective enforcement of the narcotics

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

laws. The Congress has evinced serious and continuing
concern over the alarming proportions to which the illicit
narcotics traffic has grown. The traffic has far-reaching
national and international roots. See S. Rep. No. 1997,
84th Cong., 2d Sess., pp. 3-6. The discovery and apprehension of those engaged in it present particularly difficult problems of law enforcement. The whole array of
aids adopted in 1956, of which immunity is but one, was
especially designed to "permit enforcement officers to
operate more effectively." H. R. Rep. No. 2388, 84th
Cong., 2d Sess., p. 10. The grant of both federal and
state immunity is appropriate and conducive to that end,
and that is enough. Even if the grant of immunity were
viewed as not absolutely necessary to the execution of
the congressional design, "[T]o undertake here to inquire
into the degree of . . . necessity, would be to pass the
line Which circumscribes the judicial department, and to
tread on legislative ground." McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 423. And the supersession of state
prosecution is not the less valid because the States have
traditionally regulated the traffic in narcotics, although
that fact has troubled one court. See. Tedesco v. United
States, 255 F. 2d 35. Madison said, "Interference with
the power of the States was no constitutional criterion of
the power of Congress.. If the power was not given, Congress could not exercise it; if given, they might exercise
it, although it should interfere with the laws, or even the
Constitution of the States." II Annals of Cong. 1897
(1791). Or as the Court has said coficerning federal
immunity statutes, ". . . since Congress in the legitimate
exercise of its powers enacts 'the supreme Law of the
Land,' state courts are bound by [§ 1406], even though it
affects their rules of practice." Adams v. Maryland,
supra, p. 183.
The petitioner urges that in any event he should not
have been ordered to answer the grand jury's questions

REINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

Opinion of the Court.

unless he first received a "general pardon or amnesty"
covering the unserved portion of his sentence and his fine.
This is a surprising contention, in light of the traditional
purpose of immunity statutes to protect witnesses only as
to the future. It suggests that the witness who has been.
convicted is entitled to ask more of the Government than
the witness who has not but who may be compelled under
§ 1406 to reveal criminal conduct which, but for the
immunity, would subject him to future federal or state
prosecution. Yet the petitioner in his brief says that
"the ordinary rule is that once a person is convicted of a
crime, he no longer has the privilege against self-incrimination as he can no longer be incriminated by his testimony about said crime . . . ." There is indeed weighty
authority for that proposition. United States v. Romero,
249 F. 2d 371; 8 Wigmore, Evidence (3d ed. 1940),
§ 2279; cf. Brown v. Walker, supra, 597-600. Under it,
immunity, at least from federal prosecution, need not
have been offered the petitioner at all.
The petitioner does not argue that remission of his
penalty was his due as a quid pro quo for further exposing,
himself to personal disgrace or opprobrium. That reason
would not be tenable under Brown v. Walker, supra, in
which the Court rejected the argument that the validity
of an immunity statute should depend upon whether it
shields "the witness from the personal disgrace or opprobrium attaching to the exposure of his crime." 161 U. S.,
at 605. Nor does he support his contention with the
argument that the prison sentence imposed for disobedience of the order directing him to testify is actually an
additional punishment for his crime. His argument is
the single one that the "said order was not a proper basis
upon which to bottom a contempt proceeding in the face
of a claim of privilege against self incrimination as it-did
not grant this petitioner immunity coextensive with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

constitutional privilege it sought to replace .. ."
(Emphasis supplied.) The complete answer. to this is
that in safeguarding him against future federal and state
prosecution "for or on account of any transaction, matter
or thing concerning which he is compelled" to testify, the
statute grants him immunity fully coextensive with the
constitutional privilege. Some language in Brown v.
Walker, 161 U. S., at 601, to which petitioner refers, compares immunity statutes to the traditional declarations of
amnesty or pardon. But neither in that opinion nor elsewhere is it suggested that immunity statutes, to escape
invalidity under the Fifth Amendment, need do more
than protect a witness from future prosecutions. This
§ 1406 does.
The petitioner complains finally that his sentence is
excessive. The District Court sentenced him to two
years' imprisonment to commence at the expiration of
the sentence he was then serving. However, the court
also allowed the petitioner 60 days from the date of the
judgment to purge himself of his contempt by appearing
within that period before the grand jury and answering
the questions. It was further provided that if he did so,
"the sentence imposed herein shall be vacated." The District Court took this action because it found in effect that
the petitioner asserted his legal position in good faith and
was not contumaciously disrespectful of the court's order
or obstinately flouting it. 170 F. Supp., at 596. There is
no occasion for us to consider the claim of excessiveness
of the sentence, or the petitioner's companion claim that
the conviction was invalid because the District Court did
not advise him of .the extent of the immunity conferred
by § 1406. We construe the 60-day purge period as
running from the effective date of this Court's mandate
and the petitioner may avoid imprisonment by answering.
Now that this Court has held that his fears of future state

REINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

BLACK,

J., dissenting.

or federal prosecution are groundless, he knows that the
only reason he gave for claiming his privilege has no
substance. No question of an admixture of civil and
criminal contempt having been raised below or here, we
do not reach the issues it might present.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK,

with whom

THE CHIEF JUSTICE

concurs, dissenting.
The Court affirms a conviction for contempt of court
upon which petitioner has been sentenced to imprisonment for two years with the provision that he can purge
himself of the contempt if he answers the questions propounded to him within 60 days. This is a strange kind
of sentence, apparently combining in one judgment the
elements of both civil and criminal contempt. .This fact
alone is sufficient to arouse grave doubts in my mind
as to the validity of the judgment, since civil and criminal contempt procedures are quite different and call
for the exercise of quite different judicial powers. Moreover, analysis of this judgment makes it clear that it
rests upon the notion that petitioner has as yet committed no crime and is being sentenced for civil contempt
for the sole purpose of coercing his compliance with the
demand for his testimony, but that if he fails to comply
with this demand within the specified period, he will
have committed a criminal contempt. Thus the judgment seems to represent a present adjudication of guilt
for a crime to be committed in the future. The fact that
the judgment has not been challenged on this specific
ground by petitioner does not, in my view, bar our consideration of it. Ordinarily, a judgment invalid on its
face can be challenged at any time. I find it unnecessary,
however, to reach a definite conclusion on this question

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
BLACK, J., dissenting.

364 U. S.

because, even assuming that the judgment is not invalid
as a result of its hybrid nature, I still think it should. be
reversed.
Petitioner contends that the decision of the Court of
Appeals should be reversed because the two-year sentence
is excessive. That contention is sufficient to bring into
issue any ground upon which the length of the sentence
may open the decision to attack. Cf. Boynton v. Virginia, 364 U. S. 454, 457. I think the imposition of a
two-year sentence was beyond the District Court's power
in the summary proceedings it conducted in this case.
In my dissenting opinion in Green v. United States,
356 U. S. 165, 193, I stated in full the reasons which led
me to conclude that where the object of a proceeding is
to impose punishment rather than merely to coerce compliance, "there is no justification in history, in necessity,
or most important in the Constitution for trying those
charged with violating a court's decree in a manner wholly
different from those accused of disobeying any other mandate of the state." Id., at 218. I adhere to that view
and reiterate my belief that the Court's position rests
solely upon the fact that "judges and lawyers have told
each other the contrary so often that they have come
to accept it as the gospel truth." Id., at 219. Thus, I
cannot join a decision upholding a two-year sentence for
contempt upon a trial in which the accused has been
denied the constitutional protections of indictment by a
grand jury and determination of guilt by a petit jury.
I regard this case as another ominous step in the incredible
transformation and growth of the contempt power and
in the consequent erosion of constitutional safeguards to
the protection of liberty. I see no reason why petitioner
should not have been tried in accordance with the law
of the land-including the Bill of Rights--and conclude,
therefore, that the case should be reversed for such a trial.

