SHELTON v. TUCKER.
Syllabus.

SHELTON ET AL. V. TUCKER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 14.

Argued November 7, 1960.-Decided December 12, 1960.*

An Arkansas statute requires every. teacher, as a condition of employment in a state-supported school or college, to file annually an
affidavit listing without limitation every organization to which he
has belonged or regularl. contributed within the preceding five
years. Teachers in state-supported schools and colleges are not
covered by a civil service system, they are hired on a year-to-year
basis, and they have no job security beyond the end of each school
year. The contracts of the teachers here involved were not renewed,
because they refused to file the required affidavits. Held: The
statute is invalid, because it deprives teachers of their right of
associational freedom protected by the Due Process Clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment from invasion by state action. Pp. 480490.
(a) There can be no doubt of the right of a State to investigate
the competence and fitness of those whom it hires to teach in its
schools. P. 485.
(b) To compel a teacher to disclose his every associational, tie
is to impair his right of free association, a right closely allied tofreedom of speech and a right which, like free speech, lies at the
foundation of a free society. Pp. 485-487.
(c) The unlimited and indiscriminate sweep of the statute here
involved and its comprehensive interference with associational
freedom go far beyond what might be justified in tie exercise of
the State's legitimate inquiry into the fitness and competence of
its teachers. Pp.. 487-490.
174 F. Supp. 351 and -231 Ark. 641, 331 S.W. 2d 701, reversed.*

Robert L. Carter argued the cause for appellants in
No. 14. With him on the brief were Thad D. Williams,
Harold B. Anderson and George Howard, Jr..
*Together with No. 83, Carr et al. v. Young, et al., on certiorari,
to the Supreme Court of Arkansas.

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

Herschel H. Friday, Jr. and Louis L. Ramsay, Jr.argued
the cause for appellees in No. 14. With them on the brief
were E. Harley Cox and Robert V. Light.
Edwin E. Dunaway argued the cause and filed a brief
for petitioners in No. 83.
Robert V. Light and Herschel H. Friday,Jr.argued the
cause for respondents in No. 83. With them on the briefs
were Bruce Bennett, Attorney General of Arkansas, and
Thorp Thomas, Assistant Attorney General.
MR.

JUSTICE STEWART

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
An Arkansas statute compels every teacher, as a condition of employment in a state-supported school or college,
to' file annually an affidavit listing without limitation
every organization to which he has belonged or regularly
contributed within the preceding five years. At issue in
these two cases is the validity of that statute under the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. No. 14 is an
appeal from the judgment of a three-judge Federal District Court upholding the statute's validity, 174 F. Supp.
351. No. 83 is here on writ of certiorari to the Supreme
Court of Arkansas, which also held the statute constitutionally valid. 231 Ark. 641, 331 S. W. 2d 701.
The statute in question is Act 10 of the Second Extraordinary Session of the Arkansas General Assembly of
1958. The provisions of the Act are summarized in the
opinion of the District Court as follows:
"Act 10 provides in substance thatno person shall
be employed or elected to employment as a superintendent, principal or teacher in any public school in
Arkansas, or as an instructor, professor or teacher in
any public institution of higher learning in that State
until such person shall have submitted to the appro-

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

Opinion of the Court.

priate hiring authority an affidavit listing all organizations to which he at the time belongs and to which
he has belonged during the past five years, and also
listing all organizations to which he at the time is
paying regular dues or is making regular contributions, or to which within the past five years he has
paid such dues or made such contributions. The Act
further provides, among other things, that any contract entered into with any person who has not filed
the prescribed affidavit shall be void; that no public
moneys shall be paid to such person as compensation
for his services; and that any such funds so paid may
be recovered back either from the person receiving
such funds or from the board of trustees or other governing body making the payment. The filing of a
false affidavit is denounced as perjury, punishable by
a fine of not less than five hundred nor more than one
thousand dollars, and, in addition, the person filing
the false affidavit is to lose his teaching license." 174
F. Supp. 353-354.'
'The statute is in seven sections. Section 1 provides: "It is hereby
declared that the purpose of this act is to provide assistance in the
administration and financing of the public schools of Arkansas, and
institutions of higher learning supported wholly or in part by public
funds, and it is hereby determined that it will be beneficial to the
public schools and institutions of higher learning and the State of
Arkansas, if certain affidavits of membership are required as hereinafter provided."
Section 2 provides: "No superintendent, principal, or teacher shall
be employed or elected in any elementary or secondary school by the
district operating such school, and no instructor, professor, or other
teacher shall be employed or elected in any institution of higher learning, or other educational institution supported wholly or in part by
public funds, by the trustees or governing authority thereof, until, as
a condition precedent to such employment, such superintendent, principal, teacher, instructor or professor shall have filed with such board

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

These provisions must be considered against the existing system of'teacher employment required by Arkansas
law. Teachers there are hired on a year-to-year basis.
They are not covered by a civil service system, and they
have no job security beyond the end of each school year.
The closest approach to tenure is a statutory provision
for the automatic renewal of a teacher's contract if he is
not notified within ten days after the end of a school year
that the contract has not been renewed. Ark. 1947 Stat.
Ann. ยง 80-1304 (b) (1960); Wabbaseka School District
No. 7 v. Johnson, 225 Ark. 982, 286 S. W. 2d 841.
The plaintiffs in the Federal District Court (appellants
here) were B. T. Shelton, a teacher employed in the Little
Rock Public School System, suing for himself and others
similarly situated, together with the Arkansas Teachers
Association and its Executive Secretary, suing for the
benefit of members of the Association. Shelton had been
of trustees or governing authority an affidavit as to the names and
addresses of all incorporated and/or unincorporated associations and
organizations. that such superintendent, principal, teacher, instructor
or professor is or within the past five years has. been a member of, or
to which organization or association such superintendent, principal, teacher, instructor, professor, or other teacher is presently pay'ing, or within the past five years has paid regular dues, or to which
the same is making or within the past five years has made regular
contributions."
Section 3 sets out the form of affidavit to be used.
Section 4 provides: "Any contract entered into by any board of
any school district, board of trustees of any institution of higher learning, or other educational institution supported wholly or in part by
public funds, or by any governing authority thereof, with any superintendent, principal, teacher, instructor, professor, or other instructional personnel, who shall not have filed the affidavit required in
Section 2 hereof prior to the employment or election of such person
and prior to the making of such contracts, shall be null and void and
no funds shall be paid under said contract to such superintendent,
principal, teacher, instructor, professor, or other instructional per-

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

Opinion of the Court.

employed in the Little Rock Special School District for
twenty-five years. In the spring of 1959 he was notified
that, before he could be employed for the 1959-1960 school
year, he must file the affidavit required by Act 10, listing
all his organizational connections over the previous five
years. He declined to file the affidavit, and his contract,
for the ensuing school year was not renewed. At the
trial the evidence showed that he was not a member of the
Communist Party or of any organization advocating the
overthrow of the Government by force, and that he was a
member of the National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People. The court upheld Act 10, finding the
information it required was "relevant," and relying on
several decisions of this Court, particularly Garner v.
Board of Public Works of Los Angeles, 341 U. S. 716;
Adler v. Board of Education, 342 U. S. 485; Beilan v.
sonnel; any funds so paid under said contract to such superintendent,
principal, teacher, instructor, professor, or other instructional personnel, may be recovered from the person receiving the same and/or
from the board of trustees or other governing authority by suit-filed
in the circuit court of the county in which such contract was made,
and any judgment entered by such court in such cause of action shall
be a personal judgment against the defendant therein and upon the
official bonds made by such defendants, if any such bonds be in
existence."
Section 5 provides that a teacher filing a false affidavit shall be
guilty of perjury, punishable by a fine, and shall forfeit his license to
teach in any school or other institution of learning supported wholly
or in part by public funds.
Section 6 is a separability provision.
Section 7 is an emergency clause, reading in part as follows:
"It is hereby determined that the decisions of the United 'States
Supreme Court in the school segregation cases require solution of a
great variety of local public school problems of considerable complexity immediately and which involve the health, safety and general
welfare of the people of the State of Arkansas, and that the purpose
of this act is to assist in the solution of these problems and to provide
for the more efficient administration of public education."

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

Board of Education, 357 U. S. 399; and Lerner v. Casey,
357 U. S. 468.2
The plaintiffs in the state court proceedings (petitioners here) were Max Carr, an associate professor at the University of Arkansas, and Ernest T. Gephardt, a teacher
at Central High School in Little Rock, each suing for
himself and others similarly situated. Each refused to
execute and file the affidavit required by.,Act 10. Carr
executed an affirmation ' in which he listed his membership in professional organizations, denied ever having been
a member of any subversive organization, and offered to
answer any questions which the University authorities
might constitutionally ask touching upon his qualifications as a teacher. Gephardt filed an affidavit stating
that he had never belonged to a subversive organization,
disclosing his membership in the Arkansas Education Association and the American Legion, and also offering to
answer any questions which the school authorities might
constitutionally ask touching upon his qualifications as a
teacher. Both were advised that their failure to comply
with the requirements of Act 10 would make impossible
their re-employment as teachers for the following school
year. The Supreme Court of Arkansas upheld the constitutionality of Act 10, on its face and as applied to the
petitioners. 231 Ark. 641, 331 S. W. 2d 701.
I.
It is urged here, as it was unsuccessfully-urged throughout the proceedings in both the federal and state courts,
that Act 10 deprives teachers in Arkansas of their
In the same proceeding the court held constitutionally invalid an

Arkansas statute making it unlawful for any member of the National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People to be employed
by the State of Arkansas or any of its subdivisions. .174 F. Supp. 351.
I The affirmation recited that Carr was "conscientiously opposed to
taking an oath or swearing in any form . . . "

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

Opinion of the Court.

rights to personal, associational, and academic liberty,
protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment from invasion by state action. In considering this contention, we deal with two basic postulates.
First. There can be no doubt of the right of a State to
investigate the competence and fitness of those whom it
hires to teach in its schools, as this Court before now has
had occasion to recognize. "A teacher works in a sensitive area in a schoolroom. There he shapes the attitude
of young minds towards the society in which they live.
In this, the state has a vital concern." Adler v. Board of
Education, 342 U. S. 485, 493. There is "no requirement
in the Federal Constitution that a teacher's classroom
conduct be the sole basis for determining his fitness.
Fitness for teaching depends on a broad range of factors."
Beilan v. Board of Education, 357 U. S. 399, 406.1
This controversy is thus not of a pattern with such
cases as N. A. A. C. P. v. Alabama, 357 U. S.449, and
Bates v. Little Rock, 361 U. S. 516. In those cases the
Court held that there was no substantially relevant correlation between the governmental interest asserted and
the State's effort to compel disclosure of the membership
lists involved. Here, by contrast, there can be no question of the relevance of a State's inquiry into the fitness
and competence of its teachers.'
Second. It is not disputed that to compel a teacher
to disclose his every associational tie is to impair
4 The actual holdings in Adler and Beilan, involving the validity of
teachers' discharges, are not relevant to the present case.
I The declared purpose of Act 10 is "to provide assistance in the
administration and financing of the public schools . ..." The
declared justification for the emergency clause is "to assist in the solution" of problems raised by "the decisions of the United States
Supreme Court in the school segregation cases." See note 1. But
neither the breadth and generality of the declared purpose nor the
possible irrelevance of the emergency provision detracts from the
existence of an actual relevant state interest in the inquiry.

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.,
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

that teacher's right of free association, a right closely
allied to freedom of speech and a right which, like free
speech, lies at the foundation of a free society. De Jonge
v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353, 364; Bates v. Little Rock, supra,
at 522-523. Such interference with personal freedom is
conspicuously accented when the teacher serves at the
absolute will of those to whom the disclosure must be
made-those who any year can terminate the teacher's
employment without bringing charges, without notice,
without a hearing, without affording an opportunity to
explain.
The statute does not provide that the information it
requires be kept confidential. Each school board is left
free to deal with the information as it wishes.' The
record contains evidence to indicate that fear of public
disclosure is neither theoretical nor groundless! Even if
there were no disclosure to the general public, the pressure
upon a teacher to avoid any ties which might displease
those who control his professional destiny would be
constant and heavy. Public exposure, bringing with it
the possibility of public pressures upon school boards to
discharge teachers who belong to unpopular or minority
6

The record contains an opinion of the State Attorney General
that "it is an administrative determination, to be made by the respective Boards, as to the disclosure of information contained in the
affidavits." The Supreme Court of Arkansas has held only that
"the affidavits need not be opened to public inspection .

. . ."

231

Ark. 641, 646, 331 S. W. 2d 701, 704. (Emphasis added.)
7In the state court proceedings a witness who was. a member of the
Capital Citizens Council testified that his group intended to gain
access to some of the Act 10 affidavits with a view to eliminating from
the school system persons who supported organizations unpopular
with the group. Among such organizations he named the American
Civil Liberties Union, the Urban League, the American Association
of. University Professors, and the Women's Emergency Committee to
Open Our Schools.

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

Opinion of the Court.

organizations, would simply operate to widen and aggravate the impairment of constitutional liberty.
The vigilant protection of constitutional freedoms is
nowhere more vital than in the community of American
schools. "By limiting the power of the States to interfere
with freedom of speech and freedom of inquiry and freedom of association, the Fourteenth Amer-dment protects
all persons, no matter what their calling. But, in view
of the nature of the teacher's relation to the effective exercise of the rights which are safeguarded by the Bill of
Rights and by the Fourteenth Amendment, inhibition
of freedom of thought, and of action upon thought, in
the case of teachers brings the safeguards of those
amendments vividly into operation. Such unwarranted
inhibition upon the free spirit of teachers . . . has an
unmistakable tendency to chill that free play of the spirit
which all teachers ought especially to cultivate and practice; it makes for caution and timidity in their associations
by potential teachers." Wieman v. Updegraff, 344 U. S.
183, 195 (concurring opinion). "Scholarship cannot
flourish in an atmosphere of suspicion and distrust.
Teachers and students must always remain free to inquire
to study and to evaluate'...."

Sweezy v. New Hamp-

shire, 354 U. S. 234, 250.
II.
The question to be decided here is not whether the
State of Arkansas can ask certain of its teachers about all
their organizational relationships. It is not whether the
State can ask all of its teachers about certain of tl'eir
associational ties. It is not whether teachers can be asked
how many organizations they belong to, or how much
time they spend in organizational activity. The question is whether the State can ask every one of its teachers
to disclose every single organization with which he has
567741 0-61-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
Opinion of the Court.

364 U. S.

been associated over a five-year period. The scope of the
inquiry required by Act 10 is completely unlimited. The
statute requires a teacher to reveal the church to which
he belongs, or to which he has given financial support.
It requires him to disclose his political party, and every
political organization to which he may have contributed
over a five-year period. It requires him to list, without
number, every conceivable kind of associational tiesocial, professional, political, avocational, or religious.
Many such relationships could have no possible bearing
upon the teacher's occupational competence or fitness.
In a series of decisions this Court has held that, even
though the governmental purpose be legitimate and substantial, that purpose cannot be pursued by means that
broadly stifle fundamental personal liberties when the
end can be more narrowly achieved.8 The breadth of
legislative abridgment must beviewed in the light of less
drastic means for achieving the same basic purpose.'
In Lovell v. Griffin, 303 U. S. 444, the Court invalidated
an ordinance prohibiting all distribution of literature at
any time or place in Griffin, Georgia, without a license,
pointing out that so broad an interference was unnecessary to accomplish legitimate municipal aims. In
8

In other areas, involving different constitutional issues, more

administrative leeway has been thought allowable in the interest of
increased efficiency in accomplishing a clearly constitutional central
purpose. See Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192; Jacob
Ruppert v. Caffey, 251 U. S.264; Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 jU. S.
230, 241 (dissenting opinion); Queenside Hills Co. v. Saxl, 328 U. S.
80, 83. But cf. Dean Milk Co. v. Madison, 340 U. S.349.
See Freund, Competing Freedoms in American Constitutional Law,
13 U. of Chicago Conference Series 26, 32-33; Richardson, Freedom of Expression and the Function of Courts, 65 Harv. L. Rev. 1, 6,
23-24; Comment, Legislative Inquiry into Political Activity: First
Amendment Immunity From Committee Interrogation, 65 Yale L. J.
1159, 1173-1175.

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

Opinion of the Court.

Schneider v. State, 308 U. S. 147, the Court dealt
with ordinances of four different municipalities which
either banned or imposed prior restraints upon the distribution of handbills. In holding the ordinances invalid,
the Court noted that where legislative abridgment of
"fundamental personal rights and liberties" is asserted,
"the courts should be astute to examine the effect of the
challenged legislation. Mere legislative preferences or
beliefs respecting matters of public convenience may well
support regulation directed at other personal activities,
but be insufficient to justify such as diminishes the exercise
of rights so vital to the maintenance of democratic institutions.' 308 U. S.., at 161. In Cantwell v. Connecticut,
310 U. S. 296, the Court said that "[c]onduct remains
subject to regulation for the protection of society," but
pointed out that in each case "the power to regulate must
be so exercised as not, in attaining a permissible end,
unduly to infringe the protected freedom." 310'U. S., at
304. Illustrations of the same constitutional principle are
to be found in many other decisions of the Court, among
them, Martin . Struthers, 319 U. S. 141; Saia v. New
York, 334 U. S. 558; and Kunz v. New York, 340 U. S. 290.
As recently as last Term we held invalid an ordinance
prohibiting the distribution of handbills because the
breadth of its application went far beyond what was
necessary to achieve a legitimate governmental purpose.
Talley v. California,362 U. S. 60. In that case the Court
noted that it had been "urged that this ordinance is aimed
at providing a way to identify those responsible for
fraud, false advertising and libel. Yet the ordinance is
in no manner so limited .

. .

. Therefore we do not pass

on the validity of an ordinance limited to prevent these
or any other supposed evils: This ordinance simply bars
all handbills under all circumstances anywhere that do
not have the names and addresses printed on them in the
place the ordinance requires." 362 U. S., at 64.

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

364 U: S.

The unlimited and indiscriminate sweep of the statute
now before us brings it within the ban of our prior cases.
The statute's comprehensive interference with associational freedom goes far beyond what might be justified
in the exercise of the State's legitimate inquiry into the
fitness and competency of its teachers. The judgments in
both cases must be reversed.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

As one who has strong views against crude intrusions by
the state into the atmosphere of creative freedom in which
alone the spirit and mind of a teacher can fruitfuily function, I may find displeasure with the Arkansas legislation
now under review. But in maintaining the distinction
between private views and constitutional restrictions, I
am constrained to find that it does not exceed the pernissible range of state action limited by the Fourteenth
Amendment. By way of emphasis.I therefore add a few

words to the dissent of MR. JUSTIcE HARLAN, in which I
concur.
It is essential, at the outset, to establish what is not involved in this litigation:
(1) As the Court recognizes, this is not a case where,
as in N. A. A. C. P. v. Alabama, 357 U. S. 449, and Bates v.
Little Rock, 361.U. S. 516, a State, asserting the power to
compel disclosure of organizational affiliations, can show
no rational relation between disclosure and a governmental interest justifying it. Those cases are relevant
here only because of their recognition that an interest in
privacy, in non-disclosure, may under appropriate circumstances claim constitutional protection. The question
here is whether that interest is overborne by a countervailing public interest. To this concrete, limited question-whether the State's interest in knowing the nature

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

of the organizational activities of teachers employed by
it or by institutions which it supports, as a basis for
appraising the fitness of those teachers for the positions
which they hold, outweighs the interest recognized in
N. A. A. C. P. and Bates-those earlier decisions themselves give no answer.
(2) The Court's holding that the Arkansas statute is
unconstitutional does not, apparently, rest upon the
threat that the information which it requires of teachers
will be revealed to the public. In view of the opinion
of the Supreme Court of Arkansas, decision here could
not, I believe, turn on a claim that the teachers! affidavits will not remain confidential. That court has
expressly said that "Inasmuch as the validity of the act
depends upon its being construed as a bona fide legislative
effort to provide school boards with needed information, it
necessarily follows that the affidavits need not be opened
to public inspection, for the permissible purpose of the
statute is to enlighten the school board alone." 231
Ark. 641, 646, 331 S. W. 2d 701, 704. If the validity
of the statute depended on this matter, the pronouncement of the State's highest judicial organ would have
to be read as establishing-the earlier view of the State
Attorney General notwithstanding-that the statute does
not authorize the making public of the affidavits.
Even were the Arkansas court's language far more ambiguous than it is, it would be our duty so to understand its
opinion, in accordance with the principle that "So far as
statutes fairly may be construed in such a way as to avoid
doubtful constitutional questions they should be so
construed." Fox v. Washington, 236 U. S. 273, 277.
(3) This is not a case in which Lovell v. Griffin, 303
U. S. 444; Cantwell v. Connecticut, 310 U. S. 296; Saia v.
New York, 334 U. S. 558; and Kunz v. New York, 340
U. S. 290, call for condemnation of the "breadth" of the
statute. Those decisions struck down licensing laws

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

364 U. S.

which vested in administrative officials a power of censorship over communications not confined within standards
designed to curb the dangers of arbitrary or discriminatory
official action. The "breadth" with which the cases were
concerned was the breadth of unrestricted discretion left
to a censor, which permitted him to make his own subjective opinions the practically unreviewable measure of
permissible speech.' Nor is this a case of the nature of
Thornhill v. Alabama, 310 U. S. 88, and Herndon v.
Lowry, 301 U. S. 242,2 involving penal statutes which
the Court found impermissibly "broad" in quite another
sense. Prohibiting, indiscriminately, activity within and
without the sphere of the Fourteenth Amendment's protection of free expression, those statutes had the double
vice of deterring the exercise of constitutional freedoms
by making the uncertain line of the Amendment's application determinative of criminality and of prescribing
indefinite standards of guilt, thereby allowing the potential vagaries and prejudices of juries, effectively insulated
against control by reviewing courts, the power to intrude
upon the protected sphere. The statute challenged in
the present cases involves neither administrative discretion to censor nor vague, overreaching tests of criminal
responsibility.
1See also Hague v. C. 1. 0., 307 U. S. 496; Schneider v. State, 308
U. S. 147 (the Irvington ordinance); Largent v. Texas. 318 U. S.
418; Jones v. Opelika, 319 U. S. 103, vacating 316 U. S. 584 (the
Opelika ordinance); Niemotko v. Maryland, 340 U. S. 268; Joseph
Burstyn, Inc., v. Wilson, 343 U. S. 495; Gelling v. Texas. 343 U. S.
960; Superior Films, Inc., v. Department of Education, 346 U. S.
587: Staub v. Baxley, 355 U. S. 313; cf. Marsh v. Alabama, 326
U. S. 501; Tucker v. Texas, 326 U. S. 517. The common-law count
in the Cantwell case involved considerations similar to those which
were determinative of the decisions cited in text and note, at note 2,
infra.
' See also Stromberg v. California,283 U. S. 359; Winters v. New
York. 333 U. S. 507.

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

Where state assertions of authority are attacked as
impermissibly restrictive upon thought, expression, or
association, the existence vel non of other possible less
restrictive means of achieving the object which the
State seeks is, of course, a constitutionally relevant consideration. This is not because some novel, particular
rule of law obtains in cases of this kind. Whenever
the reasonableness and fairness of a measure are at
issue-as they are in every case in which this Court must
apply the standards of reason and fairness, with the appropriate scope to be given those concepts, in enforcing the
Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as a
limitation, upon state action-the availability or unavailability of alternative methods of proceeding is germane.
Thus, a State may not prohibit the distribution of literature on its cities' streets as a means of preventing littering,
when the same end might be achieved with only slightly
greater inconvenience by applying the sanctions of the
penal law not to the pamphleteer who distributes the
paper but to the recipient who crumples it and throws it
away. Hague v. C. I. 0., 307 U. S. 496; Schneider v.
State, 308 U. S. 147; Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S. 413. Nor
may a State protect its population from the dangers and
incitements of salacious books by restricting the reading
matter of adults to that which would be harmless to the
susceptible mind of a child. Butler v. Michigan, 352
U. S. 380. And see De Jonge v. Oregon, 299 U. S. 353;
Talley v. California,362 U. S. 60.' But the consideration
3 Language characterizing state statutes as overly broad has some-

times been found in opinions where it was unnecessary to the result,
and merely meant to express the idea that whatever state interest was
there asserted as underlying a regulation was insufficient to justify
the regulation's application to particular circumstances fairly within
the Fourteenth Amendment's protection. Compare Thomas v.
Collins, 323 U. S. 516, with Fiske v. Kansas, 274 U. S. 380. Compare Martin v. Struthers, 319 U. S. 141, with Breard v. Alexandria,
341 U. S. 622.

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

364 U. S.

of feasible alternative modes of regulation in these cases
did not imply that the Court might substitute its own
choice among alternatives for that of a state legislature,
or that the States were to be restricted to the "narrowest"
workable means of accomplishing an end. See Prince v.
Massachusetts, 321 U. S. 158, 169-170. Consideration
of alternatives may focus the precise exercise of state
legislative authority which is tested in this Court by the
standard of reasonableness, but it does not alter or displace that standard. The issue remains whether, in light
of the particular kind of restriction upon individual liberty
which a regulation entails, it is reasonable for a legislature
to choose that form of regulation rather than others less
restrictive. To that determination, the range of judgment easily open to a legislature in considering the relative degrees of efficiency of alternative means in achieving
the end it seeks is pertinent.
In the present case the Court strikes down ai.
.ansas
statute requiring that teachers disclose to school officials
all of their organizational relationships, on the ground
that "Many such relationships could have no possible
bearing upon the teacher's occupational competence or
fitness." Granted that a given teacher's membership in
the First. Street Congregation is, standing alone, of little
relevance to what may rightly be expected of a teacher, is
that membership equally irrelevant when it is discovered
that the teacher is in fact a member of the First Street
Congregation and the Second Street Congregation and
the Third Street Congregation and the 4-H Club and the
3-H Club and half a dozen other groups? Presumably, a
teacher may have so many divers associations, so many
divers commitments, that they consume his time and
energy and interest at the expense of his work or even of
his professional dedication. Unlike wholly individual
interests, organizational connections-because they involve obligations undertaken with relation to other per-

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

sons-may become inescapably demandiig and distracting. Surely, a school board is entitled to inquire whether
any of its teachers has placed himself, or is placing himself, in a condition where his work may suffer. Of course,
the State might ask: "To how many organizations do you
belong?" or "How much time do you expend at organizational activity?" But the answer to such questions could
reasonably be regarded by a state legislature as insufficient, both because the veracity of the answer is more difficult to test, in cases where doubts as to veracity may arise,
than in the case of the answers required by the Arkansas
statute, and because an estimate of time presently spent
in organizational activity reveals nothing as to the quality
and nature of that activity, upon the basis 'of which,
necessarily, judgment or prophesy of the extent of future
involvement must be based. A teacher's answers to the
questions which Arkansas asks, moreover, may serve the
purpose of making known to school authorities persons
who come into contact with the teacher in all of the phases
of his activity in the community, and who can be questioned, if need be, concerning the teacher's conuact in
matters which this Court can certainly not now say are
lacking in any pertinence to professional fitness. It is
difficult to understand how these particular ends could
be achieved by asking "certain of [the State's] teachers
about all their organizational relationships," or "all of its
teachers about certain of their associational ties," or all
of its teachers how many associations currently involve
them, or during how many hours; and difficult, therefore,
to appreciate why the Court deems unreasonable and
forbids what Arkansas does ask.
If I dissent from the Court's disposition in these cases,
it is not that I put a low value on academic freedom.
See Wieman v. Updegraff, 344 U. S. 183, 194 (concurring
opinion); Sweezy v. New Hampshire, 354 U. S. 234, 255
(concurring opinion). It is because that very freedom,

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
HARLAN, J., dissenting.

364 U. S.

in its most creative reaches, is dependent in no small part
upon the careful and discriminating selection 'of teachers. This process of selection is an intricate affair, a
matter of fine judgment, and if it is to be informed, it
must be based upon a comprehensive range of information. I am unable to say, on the face of this statute, that
Arkansas could not reasonably find that the information
which the statute requires-and which may not be otherwise acquired than by asking the question which it asks-is germane to that selection. Nor, on this record, can I
attribute to the State a purpose to employ the enactment
as a device for the accomplishment of what is constitutionally forbidden. Of course, if the information gathered by the required affidavits is used to further a scheme
of terminating the employment of teachers solely because
of their membership in unpopular organizations, that use
will run afoul of. the Fourteenth Amendment. It will be
time enough, if such use is made, to hold the application
of the statute unconstitutional. See Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356. Because I do not find that the disclosure of teachers' associations to their school boards is,
without more, such a restriction upon their liberty, or
upon that of the community, as to overbalance the State's
interest in asking the question, I would affirm the
judgments below.
I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE CLARK, MR.
JUSTICE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER agree with
this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE. HARLAN, whom MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, MR. JUSTICE CLARK and MR. JUSTICE WHITTAKER

join, dissenting.
Of course this decision has a natural tendency to enlist
support, involving as it ,does an unusual statute that
touches constitutional rights whose protection in the context of the racial situation in various parts of the country

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

demands the unremitting vigilance of the courts. Yet
that very circumstance also serves to remind of the
restraints that attend constitutional adjudication. It
must be emphasized that neither of these cases actually
presents an issue of racial discrimination. The statute
on its face applies to all Arkansas teachers irrespective of
race, and there is no showing that it has been discriminatorily administered.
The issue is whether, consistently with the Fourteenth
Amendment,, a State may require teachers in its public
schools or colleges to disclose, as a condition precedent to
their initial or continued employment, all organizations
to which they have belonged, paid dues, or' contributed
within the past five years. Since I believe that such a
requirement cannot be said to transgress the constitutional limits of a State's conceded authority to determine
the qualifications of those serving it as teachers, I am
bound to consider that Arkansas had the right to pass the
statute in question, and therefore conceive it my duty to
dissent.
The legal framework in which the issue must be judged
is clear. The rights of free speech and association
embodied in the "liberty" assured against state action by
the Fourteenth Amendment (see De Jonge v. Oregon, 299
U. S. 353, 364; Gitlow v. New York, 268.U. S. 652, 672,
dissenting opinion of Holmes, J.) are not absolute. Near
v. Minnesota, 283 U. S. 697, 708; Whitney v. California,
274 U. S. 357, 373 (concurring, opinion of Brandeis, J.).
Where official action is claimed to invade these rights, the
controlling inquiry is whether such action is justifiable on
the basis of a superior governmental interest to which
such individual rights must yield. When the action complained of pertains to the realm of investigation, our
inquiry has a double aspect: first, whether the investigation relates to a legitimate governmental purpose; second,
whether, judged in the light of that purpose, the ques-

OCTOBER TERM, 1960.
HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

364 U. S.

tioned action has substantial relevance thereto. See
Barenblatt v. United States, 360 U. S. 109; Uphaus v.
Wyman, 360 U. S. 72.
In the two cases at hand, I think both factors are satisfied. It is surely indisputable that a State has the right
to choose its teachers on the basis of fitness. And I think
it equally clear, as the Court appears to recognize, that
information about a teacher's associations may be useful
to school authorities in determining the moral, professional, and social qualifications of the teacher, as well as in
determining the type of service for which he will be best
suited in the educational system. See Adler v. Board of
Education,342 U. S. 485; Beilan v. Board of Public Education, 357 U. S. 399; see also Slochower v. Board of Education, 350 U. S. 551. Furthermore, I take the Court to
acknowledge that, agreeably to our previous decisions, the
State may enquire into associations to the extent that the
resulting information may be in aid of that legitimate
purpose. These cases therefore do not present a situation
such as we had in N. A. A. C. P. v. Alabama, 357 U. S. 449,
and Bates v. Little Rock, 361 U. S. 516, where the
required disclosure bears no substantial relevance to a
.legitimate state interest.
Despite these considerations this statute is stricken
down because, in the Court's view, it is too broad, because
it asks more than may be necessary to effectuate the
State's legitimate interest. Such a statute, it is said, cannot justify the inhibition on freedom of association which
so blanket an inquiry may entail. Cf. N. A. A. C. P. v.
Alabama, supra;.-Bates v. Little Rock, supra.
I am unable to subscribe to this view because I believe
it impossible to determine a priorithe place where the line
should be drawn between what would be permissible inquiry and overbroad inquiry in a situation like this. Certainly the Court does not point that place out. There
can be little doubt that much of the associational informa-

SHELTON v. TUCKER.
479

HARLAN,

J., dissenting.

tion called for by the statute will be of little or no use
whatever to the school authorities, but I do not understand how those authorities can be expected to fix in
advance the terms of their enquiry so that it will yield
only relevant information. I do not mean to say that alternatives such as an enquiry
limited to the names of organizations of whose character
the State is presently aware, or to a class of organizations
defined by their purposes, would not be more consonant
with a decent respect for the privacy of the teacher, nor
that such alternatives would be utterly unworkable. I
do see, however, that these alternatives suffer from deficiencies so obvious where a State is bent upon discovering everything which would be relevant to its proper
purposes, that I cannot say that it must, as a matter
of constitutional compulsion, adopt some such means
instead of those which have been chosen here.
Finally, I need hardly say that if it turns out that this
statute is abused, either by an unwarranted publicizing of
the required associational disclosures or otherwise, we
would have a different kind of case than those presently
before us. See Lassiter v. NorthamptonElections Board,
360 U. S. 45, 53-54. All that is now here is the validity
of the statute on its face, and I ajn unable to agree that
in this posture of things the enactment can be said to be
unconstitutional.
I would affirm in both cases.

