GREENE v. MASSEY
Syllabus

GREENE v. MASSEY, CORRECTIONAL
SUPERINTENDENT
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH

No. 76-6617.

CIRCUIT

Argued November 28, 1977-Decided June 14, 1978

On appeal of the first-degree murder convictions of petitioner and another,
the Florida Supreme Court reversed by a per curiam opinion and
ordered a new trial. That opinion, which a majority of four justices
joined, stated that "the evidence was definitely lacking in establishing
beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendants committed murder in
the first degree," and that the "interests of justice require a new
trial." Three justices dissented without opinion. Three of the justices
who had joined the per curiam also filed a "special concurrence,"
which, though concerned only with trial error, concluded that "[flor the
reasons stated the judgments should be reversed and remanded for a new
trial so we have agreed to the Per Curiam order doing so." Before the
second trial defendants unsuccessfully contended in the state courts that
the per curiam opinion was tantamount to a finding that the trial court
should have directed a verdict of not guilty and that a second trial for
first-degree murder would constitute double jeopardy; and the defendants
were retried and convicted of first-degree murder. Petitioner and his
codefendant, by appeal in the state courts and petitioner by application
for habeas corpus in the District Court and Court of Appeals, unavailingly pressed their double jeopardy claims. Held: Burks v. United
States, ante, p. 1, precludes a second trial once a reviewing court has
determined that the evidence introduced at trial is insufficient to sustain
the verdict. Standing by itself, the per curiam would therefore clearly
compel the conclusion that petitioner's second trial violated the Double
Jeopardy Clause. But the special concurrence leaves open the possibility
that three of the justices who joined the per curiam were concerned simply
with trial error and joined in the remand solely to give the defendants an
error-free trial-even though they were satisfied that the evidence was
sufficient to support the verdict. So that the ambiguity can be resolved,
the case is remanded to the Court of Appeals for reconsideration in light
of the Court's opinion and Burks, supra. Pp. 24-27.
546 F. 2d 51, reversed and remanded.
BURGER, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BRENNAN,
STEWART, WHITE, MARSHALL, POWELL, and STEVENS, JJ., joined. POWELL,

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court
J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 27.
concurring in the judgment, post, p. 27.
in the consideration or decision of the case.

REHNQUIST,
BLACKMUN,

437 U. S.
J., filed an opinion
J., took no part

John T. Chandler argued the cause for petitioner pro hac
vice. With him on the briefs was Donald C. Peters.
Harry M. Hipler, Assistant Attorney General of Florida,
argued the cause for respondent pro hac vice. With him on
the brief were Robert L. Shevin, Attorney General, and Basil
S. Diamond, Assistant Attorney General.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER delivered the opinion of the
Court.
We granted certiorari to decide whether a State may retry a
defendant after his conviction has been reversed by an appellate court on the ground that the evidence introduced at the
prior trial was insufficient, as a matter of law, to sustain the
jury's verdict.
I
On September 7, 1965, petitioner Greene and Jos6 Manuel
Sosa were indicted by a Florida grand jury for the murder of
Nicanor Martinez. The indictment charged that Sosa "did
hire, procure, aid, abet and counsel" Greene to murder
Martinez and that petitioner had carried out the premeditated
plan, shooting the victim to death with a pistol. A state-court
jury subsequently found the defendants guilty of first-degree
murder, without a recommendation of mercy. Pursuant to
Florida law at the time, the trial court sentenced both defendants to death.
On appeal to the Florida Supreme Court, the convictions of
Greene and Sosa were reversed and new trials ordered. The
reviewing court was sharply divided, however, with a majority
composed of four justices joining a brief per curiam opinion
which disposed of the case in the following terms:
"After a careful review of the voluminous evidence here
we are of the view that the evidence was definitely lacking

GREENE v. MASSEY
19

Opinion of the Court

in establishingbeyond a reasonable doubt that the defendants committed murder in the first degree, and that the
interests of justice require a new trial. The judgments
are accordingly reversed and remanded for a new trial."
Sosa v. State, 215 So. 2d 736, 737 (1968). (Emphasis
added.)
Three justices dissented without opinion; we can do no more
than speculate that the dissenting justices concluded there was
sufficient evidence to support the jury verdict. In addition, a
separate "special concurrence" was filed on behalf of three of
the four justices who had also joined the per curiam opinion
remanding for a new trial. These three concurring justices
undertook a detailed examination of various asserted trial errors
and found that on at least one claim the trial court had committed reversible error.' This point concerned the improper
admission of certain hearsay evidence which, in the opinion of
the concurring justices, had a "potential probative force" that
could have been "highly incriminating or critical to the establishment of an ultimate fact in dispute." Id., at 745. While
the concurrence of the three justices makes no mention of
evidentiary insufficiency as such, the opinion concludes:
"For the reasons stated the judgments should be reversed and remanded for a new trial so we have agreed to
the Per Curiam order doing so." Id., at 746.
The "reasons stated" by the concurring justices thus concerned trial error, but paradoxically, the three explicitly joined
the court's per curiam opinion which rested exclusively on the
1 The concurrence also concluded that the trial court had improperly
ruled on a question concerning a subpoena duces tecum, the result of
which was that the defense may have been deprived of evidence to which
it was entitled. It is not clear from the opinion whether the concurring
justices would have regarded this error, in and of itself, as requiring
reversal.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

437 U. S.

ground that the evidence was insufficient to support the
verdict.
The case was then remanded, and after some intervening
procedural maneuvering, the defendants were ordered retried
in the Circuit Court of Orange County, Fla. Prior to their
second trial, however, the defendants filed a suggestion for a
writ of prohibition, claiming that their retrial would violate
the Double Jeopardy Clause of the Federal Constitution, as it
was applied to the States by Benton v. Maryland, 395 U. S. 784
(1969). They contended that the per curiam opinion of the
State Supreme Court was tantamount to a finding that the
trial court should have directed a verdict of not guilty and
hence a second trial for first-degree murder would constitute
double jeopardy. When the trial court refused to issue the
writ, review was sought in the Second District Court of Appeal
of Florida. That court likewise declined to issue a writ of
prohibition, but expressly stated that it was not rendering "an
opinion as to the propriety of a new trial after a reversal for
lack of sufficient evidence to establish, as a matter of law, the
essential elements of the crime charged." Sosa v. Maxwell,
234 So. 2d 690, 692 (1970). Rather, the District Court of
Appeal was of the view that the Supreme Court's reversal
"appear[ed] to be based on a finding that the evidence, though
technically sufficient, [was] so tenuous as to prompt an
appellate court to exercise its discretion and, in the interest of
justice, grant a new trial." Id., at 691.2 Considering the case
2

The District Court of Appeal noted that "on many occasions" Florida

courts had "held that where the weight of evidence appears . . . to be very
weak, although apparently legally sufficient if all permissible inferences
are made and certain witnesses believed or disbelieved, a new trial may
be granted." 234 So. 2d, at 691. That court construed the language in
the per curiam opinion of the State Supreme Court "as indicating that
although some evidence on all elements of the crime was present, a grave
doubt that affirmance would be in the interests of justice was raised in
the minds of those members of the supreme court joining in the per curiam
decision." Id., at 691 n. 1.

GREENE v. MASSEY
19

Opinion of the Court

in this posture, the court indicated that it could find no
precedent in Florida law which would bar a retrial on double
jeopardy grounds.' Certiorari was subsequently sought in the
Supreme Court of Florida, which denied the petition without
comment. 240 So. 2d 640 (1970).
Greene and Sosa were then retried. On January 15, 1972,
they were convicted of first-degree murder and each received a
life sentence, the second jury having recommended mercy.
From this judgment they appealed to the Fourth District
Court of Appeal of Florida, raising again their contention that
the second trial violated the Double Jeopardy Clause. While
conceding "the point to be academically intriguing," Greene v.
State, 302 So. 2d 202, 203 (1974), that court refused to reach
the merits of the double jeopardy claim, holding instead that
the Court of Appeal's earlier disposition of the issue was res
judicata. Greene and Sosa applied for a writ of certiorari in
this Court and certiorari was denied. Greene v. Florida, 421
U. S.932 (1975).
Having exhausted all avenues of direct relief, petitioner
Greene' applied for a writ of habeas corpus in the United
States District Court, arguing once more that his second
trial was held in violation of the Double Jeopardy Clause.
Although the District Court was sympathetic to petitioner's
claim,' it felt constrained by prior Fifth Circuit precedent to
'Although

the District Court of Appeal thus failed to decide whether

the State might retry a defendant after his conviction has been reversed on
the ground that the evidence was insufficient to support the verdict, it did
opine in dictum that in such circumstances "the trial judge should have
directed a verdict of acquittal." Id., at 692.
4 Sosa was not a party to the federal habeas corpus action; accordingly,
our holding here has no effect on his conviction.
5 In its unreported order dismissing the petition, the District Court
stated that "if this were a question of first impression in the Fifth Circuit,
this Court might be inclined to grant the petition. Regardless of whether
an appellate court or a trial jury makes the determination that the evidenoe is insufficient to sustain a finding of guilt as to a particular charge,

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

437 U. S.

dismiss the petition. From this ruling petitioner appealed to
the Court of Appeals, which affirmed the District Court on the
basis of an earlier Fifth Circuit case, United States v.Musquiz,
445 F. 2d 963 (1971). 546 F. 2d 51 (1977). The Musquiz
decision had interpreted several of this Court's cases ' to mean
that under 28 U. S. C. ยง 2106, a court of appeals could order
a new trial after a conviction had been reversed due to
evidentiary insufficiency "if a motion for a new trial was made
in the trial court." 546 F. 2d, at 56. Noting that Greene had
made a motion for a new trial after his first conviction, and
that the Florida Supreme Court had "review power at least
equal to that possessed by this Court [of Appeals] under
ยง 2106," ibid., the court held that a new trial had been a
constitutionally permissible remedy.
We granted certiorari, 432 U. S.905 (1977), to review the
judgment of the United States Court of Appeals.
I
In Burks v. United States, ante, p. 1, decided today, we
have held that the Double Jeopardy Clause precludes a second
trial once a reviewing court has determined that the evidence
introduced at trial was insufficient to sustain the verdict.
Since the constitutional prohibition against double jeopardy
is fully applicable to state criminal proceedings, Benton v.
Maryland, supra, we are bound to apply the standard announced in Burks to the case now under review.
If we were confronted only with the per curiam opinion of
the Florida Supreme Court, reversal in this case would follow.
and regardless of whether a petitioner moves for a new trial on other
grounds in addition to asserting the ground of insufficiency of evidence,
it would seem that the double jeopardy clause would preclude giving the
prosecution a second chance."
6 These included Forman v. United States, 361 U. S. 416 (1960); Sapir
v. United States, 348 U. S. 373 (1955); Bryan v. United States, 338 U. S.
552 (1950).

GREENE v. MASSEY
19

Opinion of the Court

The per curiam disposition, standing by itself, leaves no room
for interpretation by us other than that a majority of the
State Supreme Court was "of the view that the evidence was
definitely lacking in establishing beyond a reasonable doubt
that the defendants committed murder in the first degree.. .. "
By using the precise terminology "lacking in establishing
beyond a reasonable doubt," the highest court in Florida seems
to have clearly said that there was insufficient evidence to
permit the jury to convict petitioner at his first trial.7 The
dispositive per curiam opinion makes no reference to the trial
errors raised on appeal. Viewed in this manner, the reasoning
enunciated in Burks would obviously compel the conclusion
that Greene's second trial violated the Double Jeopardy
Clause.
But the situation is confused by the fact that three of the
four justices who joined in the per curiam disposition expressly
qualified their action by "specially concurring" in an opinion
which discussed only trial error. One could interpret this
action to mean that the three concurring justices were con7 Arguably, the per curiam opinion might be read as meaning that
although there was insufficient evidence to convict the defendants of
"murder in the first degree," there was nonetheless evidence to support a

conviction for a lesser included offense, e. g., second-degree murder, see
Fla. Stat. ยง 782.04 (1977). At the time of the Florida Supreme Court's
holding in this case, the Double Jeopardy Clause was not applicable to
state proceedings, and hence that court conceivably did not see any need
to consider whether, under the Federal Constitution, a retrial would be
allowed only for some lesser included offense. Cf. Green v. United States,
355 U. S. 184 (1957). Indeed, even if Benton v. Maryland, 395 U. S. 784
(1969), had been decided prior to the State Supreme Court's action, the
Florida court might have reasonably concluded from our decisions that a
retrial for first-degree murder was permissible under the Double Jeopardy
Clause. See Burks, ante, at 10. Given our decision today to remand this
case for reconsideration by the Court of Appeals, we need not reach the
question of whether the State could, consistent with the Double Jeopardy
Clause, try Greene for a lesser included offense in the event that his firstdegree murder conviction is voided.

OCTOBER TERM, 1977
Opinion of the Court

437 U. S.

cerned simply with trial error and joined in the remand
solely to afford Greene and Sosa a fair, error-free trial-even
though they were satisfied that the evidence was sufficient to
support the verdict. A reversal grounded on such a holding,
of course, would not prevent a retrial.8 See Burks, ante, at
15-16; United States v. Tateo, 377 U. S. 463, 465 (1964). The
problem with this interpretation is that the opinion concludes
by expressly stating that the three concurring justices had
"agreed to the Per Curiam order . . . ." When the concurrence is considered in light of the language of the per curiam
opinion, it could reasonably be said that the concurring justices
thought that the legally competent evidence adduced at the
first trial was insufficient to prove guilt. That is, they were
of the opinion that once the inadmissible hearsay evidence was
discounted, there was insufficient evidence to permit the jury
to convict.'
Given the varying interpretations "othat can be placed on
the actions of the several Florida appellate courts, we conclude
that this case should be remanded to the Court of Appeals for
reconsideration in light of this opinion and Burks v. United
" Even if this view of the concurrence is accepted, it would still mean
that only a plurality of the Florida Supreme Court embraced the conclusion that reversal was justified solely on trial-error grounds. We leave
resolution of this ambiguity to the Court of Appeals on remand, which
will undoubtedly be in a better position to understand how Florida law
would construe such a disposition.
9 We express no opinion as to the double jeopardy implications of a
retrial following such a holding.
10 We
note that the Second District Court of Appeal attached still
another interpretation to the Florida Supreme Court's action, namely, that
a new trial was being granted "in the interests of justice," even though
the evidence was technically sufficient to support a verdict of guilty. See
supra, at 22 n. 2. We are unaware, however, of the amount of weight that
Florida law would afford to a district court of appeal's interpretation of
its Supreme Court's actions. Nor are we willing to express an opinion
as to the double jeopardy implications of a retrial ordered on such grounds.
We leave both of these considerations to the Court of Appeals on remand.

GREENE v. MASSEY
19

REHNQUIST,

J., concurring in judgment

States, ante, p. 1. The Court of Appeals will be free to
direct further proceedings in the District Court or to certify
unresolved questions of state law to the Florida Supreme
Court. See Fla. Stat. ยง 25.031 (1977), Fla.. App. Rule 4.61;
Lehman Bros. v. Schein, 416 U. S. 386 (1974).
Reversed and remanded.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACKMUN

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
concurring.
I concur in the opinion of the Court except insofar as
it states that the constitutional prohibition against double
jeopardy is fully applicable to state criminal proceedings.
See Crist v. Bretz, post, p. 40 (POWELL, J., dissenting). I
believe, however, that under our decision today in Burks v.
United States, ante, p. 1, a fundamental component of the
prohibition against double jeopardy is the right not to be
retried once an appellate court has found the evidence insufficient as a matter of law to support the jury's guilty verdict.
MR. JUSTICE POWELL,

concurring in the judgment.
For the reasons stated by MR. JUSTICE POWELL in his dissenting opinion in Crist v. Bretz, post, p. 40, I do not agree
with the Court's premise, ante, at 24, that "the constitutional
prohibition against double jeopardy is fully applicable to state
criminal proceedings." Even if I did agree with that view, I
would want to emphasize more than the Court does in its
opinion the varying practices with respect to motions for new
trial and other challenges to the sufficiency of the evidence
both at the trial level and on appeal in the 50 different States
in the Union. Thus, to the extent that Florida practice in this
regard differs from practice in the federal system, the impact
of the Double Jeopardy Clause may likewise differ with respect
to a particular proceeding. I therefore concur only in the
Court's judgment.
MR.

JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

