OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

FREIGHTLINER CORP. ET AL. V. MYRICK ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 94-286.

Argued February 22, 1995-Decided April 18, 1995

In separate state common-law suits, respondents alleged that the absence
of an antilock braking system (ABS) in tractor-trailers manufactured by
petitioners constituted a negligent design defect that caused accidents
injuring one respondent and killing another's spouse. The District
Court granted summary judgments for petitioners, holding that respondents' claims were pre-empted by the National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 (Act) and by the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration's Standard 121, even though the applicable portion of that standard had previously been suspended by the Ninth Circuit. Among other things, the Act forbids any State to "establish, or
continue in effect," a motor vehicle safety standard "[w]henever a Federal ... standard ... is in effect" with respect to "the same aspect of
performance," 15 U. S. C. § 1392(d), while Standard 121 imposed vehicle
stability requirements and truck stopping distances shorter than those
that could be achieved with brakes lacking ABS. The Eleventh Circuit
consolidated the cases and reversed, holding that respondents' claims
were not expressly pre-empted under Circuit precedent and were not
impliedly pre-empted due to a conflict between state law and the federal
regulatory scheme.
Held:
1. Respondents' lawsuits are not expressly pre-empted. Because of
Standard 121's suspension, there is simply no "minimum," § 1391(2),
"objective," § 1392(a), federal standard addressing stopping distances or
vehicle stability for trucks. States thus remain free to "establish, or
continue in effect," their own safety standards concerning those "aspects of performance." § 1392(d). Moreover, the absence of regulation
cannot itself constitute regulation in this instance. The lack of a federal
standard did not result from an affirmative decision of officials to refrain
from regulating brakes, but from the decision of a federal court that the
Government had not compiled sufficient evidence to justify its regulations. Ray v. Atlantic Richfield Co., 435 U. S.151, 178, distinguished.
Pp. 286-287.
2. Because respondents' common-law actions do not conflict with federal law, they cannot be pre-empted by implication. This Court has
found implied conflict pre-emption where it is "impossible for a private

Cite as: 514 U. S. 280 (1995)

Syllabus
party to comply with both state and federal requirements," English v.
General Elec. Co., 496 U. S. 72, 79, or where state law "stands as an
obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of [Congress'] full purposes and objectives," Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52, 67. Cipollone
v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S.504, 518, distinguished. First, it is not
impossible for petitioners to comply with both federal and state law
because there is simply no federal standard for a private party to comply with. Nothing in the Act or its regulations currently regulates the
use of ABS devices. Second, a finding of liability against petitioners
would undermine no federal objectives or purposes with respect to such
devices, since none exist absent a promulgated federal standard.
Pp. 287-290.
13 F. 3d 1516, affirmed.
THOMAS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and STEVENS, O'CONNOR, KENNEDY, SOUTER, GINSBURG, and
BREYER, JJ., joined. SCALIA, J., concurred in the judgment.

Charles Friedargued the cause for petitioners. With him
on the briefs were Richard G. Taranto, Edgar A. Neely III,
Richard B. North, Jr., James A. Jacobson,and Cindy F. Wile.
Paul R. Q. Wolfson argued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae in support of respondents. With him on
the brief were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney
General Hunger, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, Douglas N. Letter, Paul D. Scott, Paul M. Geier, and Phillip R.
Recht.
Michael H. Gottesman argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Arthur H. Bryant, Leslie A.
Brueckner, Robert M. Weinberg, Andrew D. Roth, James E.
Carter,Raymond Brooks, and Charles A. Mathis, Jr.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the American
Automobile Manufacturers Association et al. by David M. Heilbron and
Leslie G. Landau; for the American Trucking Associations, Inc., et al. by
Kenneth S. Geller, Erika Z. Jones, John J Sullivan, Daniel R. Barney,
Lynda S. Mounts, and Jan S.Amundson; for the Product Liability Advisory Council, Inc., by Malcolm. E. Wheeler and Richard P. Barkley; and
for the Truck Trailer Manufacturers Association by Glen M. Darbyshire.
Briefs of amicus curiaeurging affirmance were filed for the Association
of Trial Lawyers of America by Jeffrey Robert White and Larry S. Stew-

FREIGHTLINER CORP. v. MYRICK
Opinion of the Court

delivered the opinion of the Court.
By statute, the Secretary of Transportation has the authority to issue appropriate safety standards for motor vehicles and their equipment. Respondents filed lawsuits under
state common law alleging negligent design defects in equipment manufactured by petitioners. Petitioners claim that
these actions are pre-empted by a federal safety standard,
even though the standard was suspended by a federal court.
We hold that the absence of a federal standard cannot implicitly extinguish state common law.
JUSTICE THOMAS

I
This case arises from two separate but essentially identical
accidents in Georgia involving tractor-trailers. In both
cases, 18-wheel tractor-trailers attempted to brake suddenly
and ended up jackknifing into oncoming traffic. Neither vehicle was equipped with an antilock braking system (ABS). 1
In the first case, respondent Ben Myrick was the driver of
an oncoming vehicle that was hit by a tractor-trailer manufactured by petitioner Freightliner. The accident left him
permanently paraplegic and brain damaged. In the second
case, the driver of an oncoming car, Grace Lindsey, was
killed when her vehicle collided with a tractor-trailer manufactured by petitioner Navistar.
art; for the National Conference of State Legislatures et al. by Richard
Ruda and James I. Crowley; and for Public Citizen, Inc., by Alan B. Morrison, Cornish F. Hitchcock, and David C. Vladeck.
IABS "helps prevent loss of control situations by automatically control-

ling the amount of braking pressure applied to a wheel. With these systems, the Electronic Control Unit (ECU) monitors wheel-speeds, and
changes in wheel-speeds, based on electric signals transmitted from sensors located at the wheels or within the axle housings. If the wheels start
to lock, the ECU signals a modulator control valve to actuate, thereby

reducing the amount of braking pressure applied to the wheel that is being
monitored." 57 Fed. Reg. 24213 (1992).

Cite as: 514 U. S. 280 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Respondents independently sued the manufacturers of
the tractor-trailers under state tort law. They alleged that
the absence of ABS was a negligent design that rendered
the vehicles defective. Petitioners removed the actions to
the District Court for the Northern District of Georgia
on the basis of diversity of citizenship. They then sought
summary judgment on the ground that respondents' claims
were pre-empted by the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1966 (Safety Act or Act), Pub. L. 89-563, 80
Stat. 718, as amended, 15 U. S. C. A1381 et seq., and its implementing regulations. In respondent Myrick's case, the District Court held that the claims were pre-empted by federal
law and granted summary judgment for petitioner Freightliner. Myrick v. FruehaufCorp., 795 F. Supp. 1139 (ND Ga.
1992). Following the opinion in the Myrick case, the District Court granted summary judgment in the Lindsey action
in favor of petitioner Navistar.
The Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit consolidated the cases and reversed. Myrick v. FreuhaufCorp., 13
F. 3d 1516 (1994). It held that under its previous decision
in Taylor v. General Motors Corp., 875 F. 2d 816 (CAll
1989), cert. denied, 494 U. S.1065 (1990), the state-law tort
claims were not expressly pre-empted. The Court of Appeals rejected petitioners' alternative argument that the
claims were pre-empted due to a conflict between state law
and the federal regulatory scheme. We granted certiorari,
513 U. S.922 (1994). We now affirm.
II
In 1966, Congress enacted the Safety Act "to reduce traffic
accidents and deaths and injuries to persons resulting from
traffic accidents." 15 U. S. C. § 1381. The Act requires
the Secretary of Transportation to establish "appropriate
Federal motor vehicle safety standards." § 1392(a). The
Act defines a safety standard as "a minimum standard for

FREIGHTLINER CORP. v. MYRICK

Opinion of the Court

motor vehicle performance, or motor vehicle equipment performance, which is practicable, which meets the need for
motor vehicle safety and which provides objective criteria."
§ 1391(2).
The Safety Act's express pre-emption clause provides:
"Whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard
established under this subchapter is in effect, no State
or political subdivision of a State shall have any authority either to establish, or to continue in effect, with respect to any motor vehicle or item of motor vehicle
equipment any safety standard applicable to the same
aspect of performance of such vehicle or item of equipment which is not identical to the Federal standard.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as preventing
any State from enforcing any safety standard which is
identical to a Federal safety standard." § 1392(d).
The Act also contains a saving clause, which states: "Compliance with any Federal motor vehicle safety standard issued
under this subchapter does not exempt any person from any
liability under common law." § 1397(k).
The Secretary has delegated the authority to promulgate
safety standards to the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). 49 CFR
§ 1.50(a) (1994). In 1970, the predecessor to NHTSA issued
regulations concerning vehicles equipped with air brakes,
which are used in trucks and tractor-trailers. Known as
Standard 121, this regulation imposed stopping distances
and vehicle stability requirements for trucks. See 36 Fed.
Reg. 3817 (1971).2

Because these stopping distances were

2Standard

121 required air-brake equipped vehicles to stop within certain distances at various speeds without deviating from a 12-foot-wide
lane, and without any wheel lock-up. 49 CFR §571.121 S5.3.1 (1972).

The initial stopping distance requirement from 60 miles per hour was 217
feet on a dry surface. The regulation also established brake actuation
and release times, as well as other aspects of brake performance. Ibid.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 280 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

shorter than those that could be achieved with brakes without ABS, several manufacturers notified NHTSA that ABS
devices would be required. Some manufacturers asked
NHTSA to alter the standard itself because they believed
that ABS devices were unreliable and rendered vehicles dangerously unsafe when combined with new, more effective
brakes. In 1974, NHTSA responded that Standard 121 was
practical and that ABS devices did not cause accidents. See
generally Paccar, Inc. v. NHTSA, 573 F. 2d 632, 637-638
(CA9), cert. denied, 439 U. S. 862 (1978).
Several manufacturers and trade associations then sought
review of Standard 121 in the Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit. That court remanded the case to NHTSA because
"a careful review of the extensive record" indicated that "the
Standard was neither reasonable nor practicable at the time
it was put into effect." 573 F. 2d, at 640. The court found
that NHTSA had failed to consider the high failure rate of
ABS devices placed in actual use, id., at 642, and that "there
[was] a strong probability that [ABS] has created a potentially more hazardous highway situation than existed before
the Standard became operative," id., at 643. Until NHTSA
compiled sufficient evidence to show that ABS would not create the possibility of greater danger, the court concluded, the
Standard would remain suspended. Ibid.
After the Ninth Circuit's decision in Paccar,the agency
amended Standard 121 so that the stopping distance and
lock-up requirements no longer applied to trucks and trailers. NHTSA nevertheless left the unamended Standard 121
in the Code of Federal Regulations so that "the affected
sections [could] most easily be reinstated" when the agency
met Paccar's requirements. 44 Fed. Reg. 46849 (1979).
NHTSA also stated that the provisions would remain in
place so that manufacturers would know "what the agency
still considers to be reasonable standards for minimum acceptable performance." Ibid. Although NHTSA has developed new stopping distance standards, to this day it still

FREIGHTLINER CORP. v. MYRICK
Opinion of the Court

has not taken final action to reinstate a safety standard governing the stopping distance of trucks and trailers.
III
Despite the fact that Standard 121 remains suspended,
petitioners maintain that respondents' lawsuits are expressly
pre-empted. We disagree. The Act's pre-emption clause
applies only "[w]henever a Federal motor vehicle safety
standard ... is in effect" with respect to "the same aspect
of performance" regulated by a state standard. 15 U. S. C.
§ 1392(d). There is no express federal standard addressing
stopping distances or vehicle stability for trucks or trailers.
No NHTSA regulation currently establishes a "minimum
standard for . . . motor vehicle equipment performance,"
§ 1391(2), nor is any standard "stated in objective terms,"
§ 1392(a). There is simply no minimum, objective standard
stated at all. Therefore, States remain free to "establish, or
to continue in effect," their own safety standards concerning
those "aspect[s] of performance." § 1392(d).
Petitioners insist, however, that the absence of regulation
itself constitutes regulation. Relying upon our opinion in
Ray v. Atlantic Richfield Co., 435 U. S. 151 (1978), petitioners assert that the failure of federal officials "'affirmatively
to exercise their full authority takes on the character of a
ruling that no such regulation is appropriate or approved
pursuant to the policy of the statute."' Id., at 178 (quoting
Bethlehem Steel Co. v. New York State Labor Relations Bd.,
330 U. S. 767, 774 (1947). Unlike this case, however, we
found in Ray that Congress intended to centralize all authority over the regulated area in one decisionmaker: the Federal
Government. 435 U. S., at 177. Here, there is no evidence
that NHTSA decided that trucks and trailers should be free
from all state regulation of stopping distances and vehicle
stability. Indeed, the lack of federal regulation did not result from an affirmative decision of agency officials to refrain
from regulating air brakes. NHTSA did not decide that the

Cite as: 514 U. S. 280 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

minimum, objective safety standard required by 15 U. S. C.
§ 1392(a) should be the absence of all standards, both federal
and state.3 Rather, the lack of a federal standard stemmed
from the decision of a federal court that the agency had
not compiled sufficient evidence to justify its regulations.
IV
Even if § 1392(d) does not expressly extinguish state tort
law, petitioners argue that respondents' lawsuits are preempted by implication because the state-law principle they
seek to vindicate would conflict with federal law. We have
recognized that a federal statute implicitly overrides state
law either when the scope of a statute indicates that Congress intended federal law to occupy a field exclusively, English v. General Elec. Co., 496 U. S. 72, 78-79 (1990), or when
state law is in actual conflict with federal law. We have
found implied conflict pre-emption where it is "impossible
for a private party to comply with both state and federal
requirements," id., at 79, or where state law "stands as an
obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes and objectives of Congress." Hines v. Davidowitz,
312 U. S. 52, 67 (1941).
A
As an initial matter, we must address the argument that
we need not reach the conflict pre-emption issue at all. According to respondents and the Court of Appeals, Cipollone
v. Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S. 504 (1992), held that implied
pre-emption cannot exist when Congress has chosen to include an express pre-emption clause in a statute. This argument is without merit. In Cipollone we did hold that the
8
Because no federal safety standard exists, we need not reach respondents' argument that the term "standard" in 15 U. S. C. § 1392(d) pre-empts
only state statutes and regulations, but not common law. We also need
not address respondents' claim that the saving clause, § 1397(k), does not
permit a manufacturer to use a federal safety standard to immunize itself
from state common-law liability.

FREIGHTLINER CORP. v. MYRICK
Opinion of the Court

pre-emptive scope of the two statutes at issue was governed
by the language in each Act. That conclusion rested on a
familiar canon of statutory construction and on the absence
of any reason to infer any broader pre-emption. Instead of
announcing a categorical rule precluding the coexistence of
express and implied pre-emption, however, the relevant passage in the opinion stated:
"In our opinion, the pre-emptive scope of the 1965 Act
and the 1969 Act is governed entirely by the express
language in § 5 of each Act. When Congress has considered the issue of pre-emption and has included in the
enacted legislation a provision explicitly addressing that
issue, and when that provision provides a 'reliable indicium of congressional intent with respect to state authority,' Malone v. White Motor Corp., 435 U. S., at 505,
'there is no need to infer congressional intent to preempt state laws from the substantive provisions' of the
legislation. CaliforniaFederalSavings & Loan Assn.
v. Guerra, 479 U. S. 272, 282 (1987) (opinion of MARSHALL, J.). Such reasoning is a variant of the familiar
principle of expressio unius est exclusio alterius: Congress' enactment of a provision defining the pre-emptive
reach of a statute implies that matters beyond that
reach are not pre-empted. In this case, the other provisions of the 1965 and 1969 Acts offer no cause to look
beyond §5 of each Act. Therefore, we need only identify the domain expressly pre-empted by each of those
sections. As the 1965 and 1969 provisions differ substantially, we consider each in turn." Id., at 517.
The fact that an express definition of the pre-emptive
reach of a statute "implies"-i. e., supports a reasonable inference-that Congress did not intend to pre-empt other
matters does not mean that the express clause entirely forecloses any possibility of implied pre-emption. Indeed, just
two paragraphs after the quoted passage in Cipollone, we

Cite as: 514 U. S. 280 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

engaged in a conflict pre-emption analysis of the Federal
Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, 79 Stat. 282, as
amended, 15 U.S. C. § 1331 et seq., and found "no general, inherent conflict between federal pre-emption of state
warning requirements and the continued vitality of state
common-law damages actions." 505 U. S., at 518. Our subsequent decisions have not read Cipollone to obviate the
need for analysis of an individual statute's pre-emptive effects. See, e. g., CSX Transp., Inc. v. Easterwood, 507 U. S.
658, 673, n. 12 (1993) ("We reject petitioner's claim of implied
'conflict' pre-emption... on the basis of the preceding analysis"). At best, Cipollone supports an inference that an
express pre-emption clause forecloses implied pre-emption;
it does not establish a rule.
B
Petitioners' pre-emption argument is ultimately futile,
however, because respondents' common-law actions do not
conflict with federal law. First, it is not impossible for petitioners to comply with both federal and state law because
there is simply no federal standard for a private party to
comply with. Nothing in the Safety Act or its regulations
currently regulates the use of ABS devices. As Standard
121 imposes no requirements either requiring or prohibiting
ABS systems, tractor-trailer manufacturers are free to obey
state standards concerning stopping distances and vehicle
stability.
Second, we cannot say that the respondents' lawsuits frustrate "the accomplishment and execution of the full purposes
and objectives of Congress." Hines, supra, at 67. In the
absence of a promulgated safety standard, the Act simply
fails to address the need for ABS devices at all. Further,
Standard 121 currently has nothing to say concerning ABS
devices one way or the other, and NHTSA has not ordered
truck manufacturers to refrain from using ABS devices. A
finding of liability against petitioners would undermine no

290

FREIGHTLINER CORP. v. MYRICK
Opinion of the Court

federal objectives or purposes with respect to ABS devices,
since none exist.
For the foregoing reasons, the judgment of the Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE SCALIA concurs in the judgment.

