OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

SWINT ET AL. v. CHAMBERS COUNTY
COMMISSION ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT
No. 93-1636.

Argued January 10, 1995-Decided March 1, 1995

In the wake of police raids on a nightclub in Chambers County, Alabama,
two of the club's owners joined by an employee and a patron (all petitioners here) sued respondent Chambers County Commission, along with a
municipality and three individual police officers; petitioners sought damages and other relief under 42 U. S. C. § 1983 for alleged civil rights
violations. The District Court denied the summary judgment motions
of all five defendants, ruling, inter alia,that the individual officers were
not entitled to qualified immunity from suit and that the sheriff who
authorized the raids, although a state employee,.may have been the
county's final policymaker for law enforcement. The District Court
stated that it would rule dispositively on the county's liability before
jury deliberations. Invoking the rule that an order denying qualified
immunity is appealable before trial, Mitchell v. Forsyth, 472 U. S. 511,
530, the individual defendants immediately appealed. The county commission also appealed, arguing that the denial of its summary judgment
motion was immediately appealable as a collateral order satisfying the
test announced in Cohen v. Beneficial IndustrialLoan Corp., 337 U. S.
541, 546, and, alternatively, that the Eleventh Circuit had "pendent appellate jurisdiction" to decide the questions presented by the commission. The Eleventh Circuit rejected the county commission's first argument, but asserted pendent jurisdiction over the commission's appeal.
Determining that the sheriff was not a policymaker for the county, the
Eleventh Circuit held that the county commission qualified for summary judgment.
Held- The Eleventh Circuit lacked jurisdiction to rule on the county commission's liability at this interlocutory stage of the litigation and, accordingly, should have dismissed the commission's appeal. Pp. 41-51.
(a) The order denying the county commission's summary judgment
motion was not an appealable collateral order under Cohen, supra, at
546, which allows immediate appeal from decisions that are conclusive,
resolve important questions separate from the merits, and are effectively unreviewable on appeal from final judgment. The order in question fails this test because it was tentative, the District Court having
announced its intention to revisit its initial determination. Moreover,

SWINT v. CHAMBERS COUNTY COMM'N
Syllabus
the order is effectively reviewable after final judgment, because the
commission's assertion that the sheriff is not its policymaker ranks
solely as a defense to liability, not as an immunity from suit that is
effectively lost if the case is erroneously permitted to go to trial. See
Mitchell, supra,at 526. Pp. 41-43.
(b) There is no "pendent party" appellate jurisdiction of the kind the
Eleventh Circuit purported to exercise. Although that court unquestionably had jurisdiction immediately to review the denial of the individual officers' summary judgment motions, it did not thereby gain authority to review at once the unrelated question of the county commission's
liability. The parties' arguments to the contrary drift away from the
statutory instructions Congress has given to control the timing of appellate proceedings. In particular, 28 U. S. C. § 1292(b) confers on district
courts first line discretion to certify for immediate appeal interlocutory
orders deemed pivotal and debatable; this provision grants to the court
of appeals discretion to review only orders first certified by the district
court. If courts of appeals had jurisdiction of the type here claimed
by the Eleventh Circuit, § 1292(b)'s two-tiered arrangement would be
severely undermined. Furthermore, provisions Congress passed in
1990 and 1992, 28 U. S. C. § 2072(c) and 28 U. S. C. § 1292(e), designate
the rulemaking process as the way to define or refine when a district
court ruling is "final" and when an interlocutory order is appealable.
These legislative provisions counsel resistance to expansion of appellate
jurisdiction by court decision. Abney v. United States, 431 U. S. 651,
662-663, and United States v. Stanley, 483 U. S. 669, 676-677, securely
support the conclusion that the Eleventh Circuit lacked jurisdiction to
review the denial of the county commission's summary judgment motion.
Although the parties are correct that this Court has not universally
required courts of appeals to confine review to the precise decision independently subject to review, the Court need not definitively or preemptively settle here whether or when it may be proper for a court of appeals with jurisdiction over one ruling to review, conjunctively, related
rulings that are not themselves independently appealable. The parties
do not-indeed could not-contend that the District Court's decision to
deny the commission's motion on the ground that the sheriff may have
been a county policymaker was inextricably intertwined with that
court's decision to deny the individual defendants' qualified immunity
motions, or that review of the former decision was necessary to ensure
meaningful review of the latter. Pp. 43-51.
5 F. 3d 1435 and 11 F. 3d 1030, vacated in part and remanded.
GINSBURG, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 35 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Robert B. McDuff argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Carlos A. Williams, Bryan Stevenson, and Bernard Harcourt.
PaulR. Q. Wolfson argued the cause for the United States
as amicus curiae in support of petitioners. On the brief
were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney General
Patrick, Deputy Solicitor General Bender, Beth S. Brinkmann, Jessica Dunsay Silver, and Linda F. Thome.
Paul M. Smith argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the brief for respondent Chambers County Commission were Bruce J Ennis, Donald B. Verrilli, Jr., James W.
Webb, Kendrick E. Webb, and Bart Harmon.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
In the wake of successive police raids on a nightclub in
Chambers County, Alabama, two of the club's owners joined
by an employee and a patron (petitioners here) sued the
Chambers County Commission (respondent here), the city
of Wadley, and three individual police officers. Petitioners
sought damages and other relief, pursuant to 42 U. S. C.
§ 1983, for alleged civil rights violations. We granted certiorari to review the decision of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, which held that the Chambers County Commission qualified for summary judgment
because the sheriff who authorized the raids was a state executive officer and not an agent of the county commission.
We do not reach that issue, however, because we conclude
JUSTICE GINSBURG

*J Michael McGuinness filed a brief for the Southern States Police

Benevolent Association as amicus curiae urging reversal.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for Jefferson County,
Alabama, by Charles S. Wagner; and for the National Association of Coun-

ties et al. by Richard Ruda.
Mitchell F Dolin, T Jeremy Gunn, Steven R. Shapiro, Michael A Cooper, Herbert J Hansell, Norman Redlich, Thomas J. Henderson, and

Sharon R. Vinick filed a brief for the American Civil Liberties Union
et al. as amici curiae.

SWINT v. CHAMBERS COUNTY COMM'N
Opinion of the Court

that the Eleventh Circuit lacked jurisdiction to rule on the
county commission's liability at this interlocutory stage of
the litigation.
The Eleventh Circuit unquestionably had jurisdiction to
review the denial of the individual police officer defendants'
motions for summary judgment based on their alleged qualified immunity from suit. But the Circuit Court did not
thereby gain authority to review the denial of the Chambers
County Commission's motion for summary judgment. The
commission's appeal, we hold, does not fit within the "collateral order" doctrine, nor is there "pendent party" appellate
authority to take up the commission's case. We therefore
vacate the relevant portion of the Eleventh Circuit's judgment and remand the case for proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
I
On December 14, 1990, and again on March 29, 1991, law
enforcement officers from Chambers County and the city of
Wadley, Alabama, raided the Capri Club in Chambers
County as part of a narcotics operation. The raids were
conducted without a search warrant or an arrest warrant.
Petitioners filed suit, alleging, among other claims for relief,
violations of their federal civil rights. Petitioners named
as defendants the county commission; the city of Wadley;
and three individual defendants, Chambers County Sheriff
James C. Morgan, Wadley Police Chief Freddie Morgan, and
Wadley Police Officer Gregory Dendinger.
The five defendants moved for summary judgment on
varying grounds. The three individual defendants asserted
qualified immunity from suit on petitioners' federal claims.
See Anderson v. Creighton, 483 U. S. 635, 639 (1987) (governmental officials are immune from suit for civil damages
unless their conduct is unreasonable in light of clearly established law). Without addressing the question whether Wadley Police Chief Freddie Morgan, who participated in the

Cite as: 514 U. S. 35 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

raids, was a policymaker for the municipality, the city argued
that a respondeat superiortheory could not be used to hold
it liable under § 1983. See Monell v. New York City Dept.
of Social Servs., 436 U. S. 658, 694 (1978) (a local government
may not be sued under § 1983 for injury inflicted solely by
its nonpolicymaking employees or agents). The Chambers
County Commission argued that County Sheriff James C.
Morgan, who authorized the raids, was not a policymaker for
the county.
The United States District Court for the Middle District
of Alabama denied the motions for summary judgment. The
District Court agreed that § 1983 liability could not be imposed on the city for an injury inflicted by a nonpolicymaking employee; that court denied the city's summary judgment motion, however, because the city had failed to argue
that Wadley Police Chief Freddie Morgan was not its policymaker for law enforcement. Regarding the county commission's motion, the District Court was "persuaded by the
Plaintiffs that Sheriff [James C.] Morgan may have been the
final decision-maker for the County in ferreting out crime,
although he is a State of Alabama employee." App. to Pet.
for Cert. 67a. The District Court later denied the defendants' motions for reconsideration, but indicated its. intent to
revisit, before jury deliberations, the question whether Sheriff Morgan was a policymaker for the county:
"The Chambers County Defendants correctly point
out that whether Sheriff James Morgan was the final
policy maker is a question of law that this Court can
decide. What th[is] Court decided in its [prior order]
was that the Plaintiffs had come forward with sufficient
evidence to persuade this Court that Sheriff Morgan
may be the final policy maker for the County. The parties will have an opportunity to convince this Court that
Sheriff Morgan was or was not the final policy maker

SWINT v. CHAMBERS COUNTY COMM'N
Opinion of the Court

for the County, and the Court will make a ruling as a
matter of law on that issue before the case goes to the
jury." Id., at 72a.
Invoking the rule that an order denying qualified immunity is appealable before trial, Mitchell v. Forsyth,472 U. S.
511, 530 (1985), the individual defendants immediately appealed. The city of Wadley and the Chambers County Commission also appealed, arguing, first, that the denial of their
summary judgment motions-like the denial of the individual defendants' summary judgment motions-was immediately appealable as a collateral order satisfying the test announced in Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial Loan Corp., 337
U. S. 541, 546 (1949) (decisions that are conclusive, that
resolve important questions apart from the merits of the
underlying action, and that are effectively unreviewable on
appeal from final judgment may be appealed immediately).
Alternatively, the city and county commission urged the
Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals to exercise "pendent appellate jurisdiction," a power that court had asserted in earlier cases. Stressing the Eleventh Circuit's undisputed jurisdiction over the individual defendants' qualified immunity
pleas, the city and county commission maintained that, in the
interest of judicial economy, the court should resolve, simultaneously, the city's and commission's appeals.
The Eleventh Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part
the District Court's order denying summary judgment for the
individual defendants. 5 F. 3d 1435,1448 (1993), modified, 11
F. 3d 1030,1031-1032 (1994). Next, the Eleventh Circuit held
that the District Court's rejections of the county commission's and city's summary judgment motions were not immediately appealable as collateral orders. 5 F. 3d, at 1449,
1452. Nevertheless, the Circuit Court decided to exercise
pendent appellate jurisdiction over the county commission's
appeal. Id., at 1449-1450. Holding that Sheriff James C.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 35 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Morgan was not a policymaker for the county in the area of
law enforcement, the Eleventh Circuit reversed the District
Court's order denying the county commission's motion for
summary judgment. Id., at 1450-1451. The Eleventh Circuit declined to exercise pendent appellate jurisdiction over
the city's appeal because the District Court had not yet decided whether Wadley Police Chief Freddie Morgan was a
policymaker for the city. Id., at 1451-1452.1
We granted certiorari to review the Court of Appeals' decision that Sheriff Morgan is not a policymaker for Chambers
County. 512 U. S. 1204 (1994). We then instructed the parties to file supplemental briefs addressing this question:
Given the Eleventh Circuit's jurisdiction to review immediately the District Court's refusal to grant summary
judgment for the individual defendants in response to their
pleas of qualified immunity, did the Circuit Court also have
jurisdiction to review at once the denial of the county
commission's summary judgment motion? 513 U. S. 958
(1994). We now hold that the Eleventh Circuit should have
dismissed the county commission's appeal for want of
jurisdiction.
II
We inquire first whether the denial of the county commission's summary judgment motion was appealable as a collateral order. The answer, as the Court of Appeals recognized,
is a firm "No."
By statute, federal courts of appeals have "jurisdiction of
appeals from all final decisions of the district courts," except
where direct review may be had in this Court. 28 U. S. C.
§ 1291. "The collateral order doctrine is best understood not
as an exception to the 'final decision' rule laid down by Con'On Sheriff James C. Morgan's suggestion for rehearing en banc, the
Eleventh Circuit modified its opinion with respect to an issue not relevant
here and denied rehearing en banc. 11 F. 3d 1030 (1994).

SWINT v. CHAMBERS COUNTY COMM'N
Opinion of the Court

gress in § 1291, but as a 'practical construction' of it." Digital Equipment Corp. v. Desktop Direct, Inc., 511 U. S.863,
867 (1994) (quoting Cohen, 337 U. S., at 546). In Cohen, we
held that § 1291 permits appeals not only from a final decision
by which a district court disassociates itself from a case, but
also from a small category of decisions that, although they do
not end the litigation, must nonetheless be considered "final."
Id., at 546. That small category includes only decisions that
are conclusive, that resolve important questions separate
from the merits, and that are effectively unreviewable on
appeal from the final judgment in the underlying action.
Ibid.
The District Court planned to reconsider its ruling on the
county commission's summary judgment motion before the
case went to the jury. That court had initially determined
only that "Sheriff Morgan... may have been the final policy
maker for the County." App. to Pet. for Cert. 67a (emphasis
added). The ruling thus fails the Cohen test, which "disallow[s] appeal from any decision which is tentative, informal
or incomplete." 337 U. S., at 546; see Coopers & Lybrand v.
Livesay, 437 U. S.463, 469 (1978) (order denying class certification held not appealable under collateral order doctrine,
in part because such an order is "subject to revision in the
District Court").
Moreover, the order denying the county commission's summary judgment motion does not satisfy Cohen's requirement
that the decision be effectively unreviewable after final judgment. When we placed within the collateral order doctrine
decisions denying pleas of government officials for qualified
immunity, we stressed that an official's qualified immunity is
"an immunity from suit rather than a mere defense to liability; and like an absolute immunity, it is effectively lost if a
case is erroneously permitted to go to trial." Mitchell, 472
U. S., at 526 (emphasis in original).

Cite as: 514 U. S. 35 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

The county commission invokes our decision in Monell,
which held that municipalities are liable under § 1983 only
for violations of federal law that occur pursuant to official
governmental policy or custom. Monell, the commission
contends, should be read to accord local governments a qualified right to be free from the burdens of trial. Accordingly,
the commission maintains, the commission should be able to
appeal immediately the District Court's denial of its summary judgment motion. This argument undervalues a core
point we reiterated last Term: "§ 1291 requires courts of appeals to view claims of a 'right not to be tried' with skepticism, if not a jaundiced eye," Digital Equipment, 511 U. S.,
at 873, for "virtually every right that could be enforced appropriately by pretrial dismissal might loosely be described
as conferring a 'right not to stand trial,"' ibid.; cf. United
States v. MacDonald,435 U. S. 850, 858-859 (1978) (denial of
pretrial motion to dismiss an indictment on speedy trial
grounds held not appealable under collateral order doctrine).
The commission's assertion that Sheriff Morgan is not its
policymaker does not rank, under our decisions, as an immunity from suit. Instead, the plea ranks as a "mere defense
to liability." Mitchell, 472 U. S., at 526. An erroneous ruling on liability may be reviewed effectively on appeal from
final judgment. Therefore, the order denying the county
commission's summary judgment motion was not an appealable collateral order.
III
Although the Court of Appeals recognized that the District Court's order denying the county commission's summary judgment motion was not appealable as a collateral
order, the Circuit Court reviewed that ruling by assuming
jurisdiction pendent to its undisputed jurisdiction to review
the denial of the individual defendants' summary judgment
motions. Describing this "pendent appellate jurisdiction" as
discretionary, the Eleventh Circuit concluded that judicial

SWINT v. CHAMBERS COUNTY COMM'N
Opinion of the Court

economy warranted its exercise in the instant case: "If the
County Commission is correct about the merits in its appeal," the court explained, "reviewing the district court's
order would put an end to the entire case against the
County ....

"

5 F. 3d, at

1450.2

2

The Federal Courts of Appeals have endorsed the doctrine of pendent
appellate jurisdiction, although they have expressed varying views about
when such jurisdiction is properly exercised. See, e. g., Roque-Rodriguez
v. Lema Moya, 926 F. 2d 103, 105, n. 2 (CA1 1991) (noting that the First
Circuit has "refrained" from exercising pendent appellate jurisdiction, but
characterizing the Circuit's practice as "self-imposed"); Golino v. New
Haven, 950 F. 2d 864,868-869 (CA2 1991) (exercising discretion to consider
otherwise nonappealable issues because sufficient overlap exists in the factors relevant to the appealable and nonappealable issues), cert. denied, 505
U. S. 1221 (1992); Natale v. Ridgefield, 927 F. 2d 101,104 (CA2 1991) ("Only
in exceptional circumstances should litigants, over whom this Court cannot
ordinarily exercise jurisdiction, be permitted to ride on the jurisdictional
coattails of another party."); National Union Fire Ins. Co. v. City Savings,
F.S. B., 28 F. 3d 376, 382, and n. 4 (CA3 1994) (reserving question whether
pendent appellate jurisdiction is available in any circumstances other than
when "necessary to ensure meaningful review of an appealable order")
(internal quotation marks omitted); Roberson v. Mullins, 29 F. 3d 132,
136 (CA4 1994) (recognizing pendent appellate jurisdiction "if the issues
involved in the two rulings substantially overlap and review will advance
the litigation or avoid further appeals") (internal quotation marks omitted); Silver Star Enterprises v. M/V SARAMACCA, 19 F. 3d 1008, 1014
(CA5 1994) (declining to exercise pendent appellate jurisdiction because
otherwise nonappealable order was not "inextricably entwined" with
appealable order); Williams v. Kentucky, 24 F. 3d 1526, 1542 (CA6 1994)
(same); United States ex rel. Valders Stone & Marble, Inc. v. C-Way
Constr. Co., 909 F. 2d 259, 262 (CA7 1990) (pendent appellate jurisdiction
is proper only "[w]hen an ordinarily unappealable interlocutory order is
inextricably entwined with an appealable order" and there are "compelling
reasons" for immediate review; a "close relationship" between the two
orders does not suffice) (internal quotation marks omitted); Drake v. Scott,
812 F. 2d 395, 399 (CA8) ("[W]hen an interlocutory appeal is properly
before us ...

we have jurisdiction also to decide closely related issues

of law."), cert. denied, 484 U. S. 965 (1987); TransWorld Airlines, Inc. v.
American Coupon Exchange, Inc., 913 F. 2d 676, 680 (CA9 1990) (jurisdiction under § 1291(a)(1) to review on an interlocutory basis a preliminary

Cite as: 514 U. S. 35 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Petitioners join respondent Chambers County Commission
in urging that the Eleventh Circuit had pendent appellate
jurisdiction to review the District Court's order denying the
commission's summary judgment motion. Both sides emphasize that § 1291's final decision requirement is designed
to prevent parties from interrupting litigation by pursuing
piecemeal appeals. Once litigation has already been interrupted by an authorized pretrial appeal, petitioners and the
county commission reason, there is no cause to resist the
economy that pendent appellate jurisdiction promotes. See
Supplemental Brief for Petitioners 16-17; Supplemental
Brief for Respondent 5, 9. Respondent county commission
invites us to adopt a "'liberall]' construction of § 1291, and
petitioners urge an interpretation sufficiently "[p]ractical"
and "[f]lexible" to accommodate pendent appellate review as
exercised by the Eleventh Circuit. See id., at 4; Supplemental Brief for Petitioners 14.
These arguments drift away from the statutory instructions Congress has given to control the timing of appellate
proceedings. The main rule on review of "final decisions,"
§ 1291, is followed by prescriptions for appeals from "interlocutory decisions," § 1292. Section 1292(a) lists three cateinjunction order "extends to all matters 'inextricably bound up' with th[at]
order"); Robinson v. Volkawagenwerk AG, 940 F. 2d 1369, 1374 (CA10

1991) (pendent appellate jurisdiction is properly exercised where "review
of the appealable issue involves consideration of factors closely related or
relevant to the otherwise nonappealable issue" and judicial economy is
served by review), cert. denied, 502 U. S. 1091 (1992); Stewart v. Baldwin
County Bd. of Ed., 908 F. 2d 1499, 1509 (CAll 1990) ("Pendent jurisdiction

is properly exercised over nonappealable decisions of the district court
when the reviewing court already has jurisdiction over one issue in the
case."); Consarc Corp. v. Iraqi Ministry, 27 F. 3d 695, 700 (CADC 1994)

("This Circuit has invoked [pendent appellate jurisdiction] only in a narrow
class of cases, to review an interlocutory order that itself is not yet subject
to appeal but is 'closely related' to an appealable order.").

SWINT v. CHAMBERS COUNTY COMM'N
Opinion of the Court

gories of immediately appealable interlocutory decisions.8
Of prime significance to the jurisdictional issue before us,
Congress, in 1958, augmented the §1292 catalog of immediately appealable orders; Congress added a provision,
§1292(b), according the district courts circumscribed authority to certify for immediate appeal interlocutory orders
deemed pivotal and debatable. Section 1292(b) provides:
"When a district judge, in making in a civil action an
order not otherwise appealable under this section, shall
be of the opinion that such order involves a controlling
question of law as to which there is substantial ground
for difference of opinion and that an immediate appeal
from the order may materially advance the ultimate termination of the litigation, he shall so state in writing in
such order. The Court of Appeals which would have
jurisdiction of an appeal of such action may thereupon,
in its discretion, permit an appeal to be taken from such
order, if application is made to it within ten days after
the entry of the order: Provided, however, That application for an appeal hereunder shall not stay proceedings
in the district court unless the district judge or the
Court of Appeals or a judge thereof shall so order."
3

Section 1292(a) provides in relevant part:
"[T]he courts of appeals shall have jurisdiction of appeals from:
"(1) Interlocutory orders of the district courts ... granting, continuing,
modifying, refusing or dissolving injunctions, or refusing to dissolve or
modify injunctions, except where a direct review may be had in the Supreme Court;
"(2) Interlocutory orders appointing receivers, or refusing orders to
wind up receiverships or to take steps to accomplish the purposes thereof,
such as directing sales or other disposals of property;
"(3) Interlocutory decrees of such district courts or the judges thereof
determining the rights and liabilities of the parties to admiralty cases in
which appeals from final decrees are allowed."

Cite as: 514 U. S. 35 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Congress thus chose to confer on district courts first line
discretion to allow interlocutory appeals.4 If courts of appeals had discretion to append to a Cohen-authorized appeal
from a collateral order further rulings of a kind neither independently appealable nor certified by the district court, then
the two-tiered arrangement §1292(b) mandates would be severely undermined. 5
4When it passed § 1292(b), Congress had before it a proposal, by Jerome
Frank of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, to give the courts
of appeals sole discretion to allow interlocutory appeals. Judge Frank
had opposed making interlocutory appeal contingent upon procurement of
a certificate from the district judge; he advanced instead the following
proposal:
"'It shall be the duty of the district judge to state in writing whether
in his opinion the appeal is warranted; this statement shall be appended
to the petition for appeal or, as promptly as possible after the fling of
such petition in the court of appeals, shall be forwarded to said court by
the district judge. The court of appeals shall take into account, but shall
not be bound by, such statement in exercising its discretion."' Undated
letter from study committee to the Tenth Circuit Judicial Conference, in
S. Rep. No. 2434, 85th Cong., 2d Sess., 8-9 (1958).
5This case indicates how the initial discretion Congress lodged in district courts under § 1292(b) could be circumvented by the "liberal" or
"flexible" approach petitioners and respondent prefer. The District Court
here ruled only tentatively on the county commission's motion and apparently contemplated receipt of further evidence from the parties before
ruling definitively. See order denying motions to reconsider, App. to Pet.
for Cert. 72a ("The parties will have an opportunity to convince this Court
that Sheriff Morgan was or was not the final policy maker for the County,
and the Court will make a ruling as a matter of law on that issue before
the case goes to the jury."); c Swint v. Wadley, 5 F. 3d 1435, 1452 (CAll
1993) (to determine whether an official is a final policymaker, a district
court "should examine not only the relevant positive law ...but also the
relevant customs and practices having the force of law") (emphasis in
original). In view of the incomplete state of the District Court's adjudication, including some uncertainty whether plaintiffs meant to sue the
county as discrete from the commission members, it is unlikely that a
§ 1292(b) certification would have been forthcoming from the District
Judge.

SWINT v. CHAMBERS COUNTY COMM'N
Opinion of the Court

Two relatively recent additions to the Judicial Code also
counsel resistance to expansion of appellate jurisdiction in
the manner endorsed by the Eleventh Circuit. The Rules
Enabling Act, 28 U. S. C. §2071 et seq., gives this Court "the
power to prescribe general rules of practice and procedure
...for cases in the United States district courts . . . and
courts of appeals." §2072(a). In 1990, Congress added
§2072(c), which authorizes us to prescribe rules "defin[ing]
when a ruling of a district court is final for the purposes of
appeal under section 1291." Two years later, Congress
added § 1292(e), which allows us to "prescribe rules, in accordance with section 2072... to provide for an appeal of an
interlocutory decision to the courts of appeals that is not
otherwise provided for under [§ 1292] (a), (b), (c), or (d)."
Congress thus has empowered this Court to clarify when
a decision qualifies as "final" for appellate review purposes, and to expand the list of orders appealable on an
interlocutory basis. The procedure Congress ordered for
such changes, however, is not expansion by court decision,
but by rulemaking under § 2072. Our rulemaking authority
is constrained by §§ 2073 and 2074, which require, among
other things, that meetings of bench-bar committees established to recommend rules ordinarily be open to the public,
§2073(c)(1), and that any proposed rule be submitted to Congress before the rule takes effect, § 2074(a). Congress' designation of the rulemaking process as the way to define or
refine when a district court ruling is "final" and when an
interlocutory order is appealable warrants the Judiciary's
full respect.6
6

Inthe instant case, the Eleventh Circuit asserted not merely pendent
appellate jurisdiction, but pendent party appellate jurisdiction: The court
appended to its jurisdiction to review the denial of the individual defendants' qualified immunity motions jurisdiction to review the denial of the
commission's summary judgment motion. We note that in 1990, Congress endeavored to clarify and codify instances appropriate for the exercise of pendent or "supplemental" jurisdiction in district courts. 28
U. S. C. § 1367 (1988 ed., Supp. V); see § 1367(a) (providing for "supplemen-

Cite as: 514 U. S. 35 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Two decisions of this Court securely support the conclusion that the Eleventh Circuit lacked jurisdiction instantly
to review the denial of the county commission's summary
judgment motion: Abney v. United States, 431 U. S. 651
(1977), and United States v. Stanley, 483 U. S. 669 (1987). In
Abney, we permitted appeal before trial of an order denying
a motion to dismiss an indictment on double jeopardy
grounds. Immediate appeal of that ruling, we held, fit
within the Cohen collateral order doctrine. 431 U. S., at 662.
But we further held that the Court of Appeals lacked authority to review simultaneously the trial court's rejection of the
defendant's challenge to the sufficiency of the indictment.
Id., at 662-663. We explained:
"Our conclusion that a defendant may seek immediate
appellate review of a district court's rejection of his double jeopardy claim is based on the special considerations
permeating claims of that nature which justify a departure from the normal rule of finality. Quite obviously,
such considerations do not extend beyond the claim of
formal jeopardy and encompass other claims presented
to, and rejected by, the district court in passing on the
accused's motion to dismiss. Rather, such claims are
appealable if, and only if, they too fall within Cohen's
collateral-order exception to the final-judgment rule.
Any other rule would encourage criminal defendants to
seek review of, or assert, frivolous double jeopardy
claims in order to bring more serious, but otherwise
nonappealable questions to the attention of the courts of
appeals prior to conviction and sentence." Id., at 663
(citation omitted).
Petitioners suggest that Abney should control in criminal
cases only. Supplemental Brief for Petitioners 11. But the
concern expressed in Abney-that a rule loosely allowing
pendent appellate jurisdiction would encourage parties to
tal jurisdiction" over "claims that involve the joinder or intervention of
additional parties").

SWINT v. CHAMBERS COUNTY COMM'N
Opinion of the Court

parlay Cohen-type collateral orders into multi-issue interlocutory appeal tickets-bears on civil cases as well.
In Stanley, we similarly refused to allow expansion of the
scope of an interlocutory appeal. That civil case involved
an order certified by the trial court, and accepted by the
appellate court, for immediate review pursuant to § 1292(b).
Immediate appellate review, we held, was limited to the
certified order; issues presented by other, noncertified
orders could not be considered simultaneously. 483 U. S.,
at 676-677.
The parties are correct that we have not universally required courts of appeals to confine review to the precise decision independently subject to appeal. See, e. g., Thornburgh
v. American College of Obstetriciansand Gynecologists, 476
U. S. 747, 755-757 (1986) (Court of Appeals reviewing District Court's ruling on preliminary injunction request properly reviewed merits as well); Eisen v. Carlisle & Jacquelin,
417 U. S. 156, 172-173 (1974) (Court of Appeals reviewing
District Court's order allocating costs of class notification
also had jurisdiction to review ruling on methods of notification); Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co. v. Stude, 346 U. S. 574, 578
(1954) (Court of Appeals reviewing order granting motion to
dismiss properly reviewed order denying opposing party's
motion to remand); Deckert v. Independence Shares Corp.,
311 U. S. 282, 287 (1940) (Court of Appeals reviewing order
granting preliminary injunction also had jurisdiction to review order denying motions to dismiss). Cf. Schlagenhauf
v. Holder, 379 U. S. 104, 110-111 (1964) (Court of Appeals
exercising mandamus power should have reviewed not only
whether District Court had authority to order mental and
physical examinations of defendant in personal injury case,
but also whether there was good cause for the ordered
examinations).
We need not definitively or preemptively settle here
whether or when it may be proper for a court of appeals,
with jurisdiction over one ruling, to review, conjunctively,

Cite as: 514 U. S. 35 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

related rulings that are not themselves independently appealable. See supra, at 48 (describing provisions by Congress for rulemaking regarding appeals prior to the district
court's final disposition of entire case). The parties do not
contend that the District Court's decision to deny the Chambers County Commission's summary judgment motion was
inextricably intertwined with that court's decision to deny
the individual defendants' qualified immunity motions, or
that review of the former decision was necessary to ensure
meaningful review of the latter. Cf. Kanji, The Proper
Scope of Pendent Appellate Jurisdiction in the Collateral
Order Context, 100 Yale L. J. 511, 530 (1990) ("Only where
essential to the resolution of properly appealed collateral orders should courts extend their Cohen jurisdiction to rulings
that would not otherwise qualify for expedited consideration."). Nor could the parties so argue. The individual
defendants' qualified immunity turns on whether they violated clearly established federal law; the county commission's
liability turns on the allocation of law enforcement power
in Alabama.
*

*

*

The Eleventh Circuit's authority immediately to review
the District Court's denial of the individual police officer defendants' summary judgment motions did not include authority to review at once the unrelated question of the county
commission's liability. The District Court's preliminary ruling regarding the county did not qualify as a "collateral
order," and there is no "pendent party" appellate jurisdiction
of the kind the Eleventh Circuit purported to exercise. We
therefore vacate the relevant portion of the Eleventh Circuit's judgment and remand the case for proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

