OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE

CROSS & BLUE SHIELD PLANS ET AL. V.
TRAVELERS INSURANCE CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 93-1408. Argued January 18, 1995-Decided April 26, 1995*
A New York statute requires hospitals to collect surcharges from patients
covered by a commercial insurer but not from patients insured by a Blue
Cross/Blue Shield plan, and also subjects certain health maintenance
organizations (HMO's) to surcharges. Several commercial insurers and
their trade associations filed actions against state officials, claiming that
§ 614(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
(ERISA)-under which state laws that "relate to" any covered employee benefit plan are superseded-pre-empts the imposition of surcharges on bills of patients whose commercial insurance coverage is purchased by an ERISA plan, and on HMO's insofar as their membership
fees are paid by an ERISA plan. Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans (collectively the Blues) and a hospital association intervened as defendants,
and several HMO's and an HMO conference intervened as plaintiffs.
The District Court consolidated the actions and granted the plaintiffs
summary judgment. The Court of Appeals affirmed, relying on this
Court's decisions in Shaw v. Delta Air Lines, Inc., 463 U. S. 85, and
Districtof Columbiav. GreaterWashington Bd. of Trade, 506 U. S. 125,
holding that ERISA's pre-emption clause must be read broadly to reach
any state law having a connection with, or reference to, covered benefit
plans. The court decided that the surcharges were meant to increase
the costs of certain insurance and HMO health care and held that this
purposeful interference with the choices that ERISA plans make for
health care coverage constitutes a "connection with" ERISA plans triggering pre-emption.
Held New York's surcharge provisions do not "relate to" employee benefit
plans within the meaning of § 514(a) and, thus, are not pre-empted.
Pp. 654-668.
*Together with No. 93-1414, Pataki, Governor of New York, et al. v.
Travelers Insurance Co. et al., and No. 93-1415, Hospital Association of
New York State v. Travelers Insurance Ca et al., also on certiorari to the
same court.

646

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Syllabus

(a) Under Shaw, supra, the provisions "relate to" ERISA plans if
they have a "connection with," or make "reference to," the plans. They
clearly make no reference to ERISA plans, and ERISA's text is unhelpful in determining whether they have a "connection with" them. Thus,
the Court must look to ERISA's objectives as a guide to the scope of
the state law that Congress understood would survive. Pp. 654-656.
(b) The basic thrust of the pre-emption clause was to avoid a multiplicity of regulation in order to permit the nationally uniform administration of employee benefit plans. Thus, ERISA pre-empts state laws
that mandate employee benefit structures or their administration as
well as those that provide alternative enforcement mechanisms. The
purpose and effects of New York's statute are quite different, however.
The principal reason for charge differentials is that the Blues provide
coverage to many subscribers whom the commercial insurers would reject. Since the differentials make the Blues more attractive, they have
an indirect economic effect on choices made by insurance buyers, including ERISA plans. However, an indirect economic influence does not
bind plan administrators to any particular choice or preclude uniform
administrative practice or the provision of a uniform interstate benefit
package. It simply bears on the costs of benefits and the relative costs
of competing insurance to provide them. Cost uniformity almost certainly is not an object of pre-emption. Rate differentials are common
even in the absence of state action, and therefore it is unlikely that
ERISA meant to bar such indirect influences under state law. The
existence of other common state actions with indirect economic effects
on a plan's cost--such as quality control standards and workplace regulation-leaves the intent to pre-empt even less likely, since such laws
would have to be superseded as well. New York's surcharges leave
plan administrators where they would be in any case, with the responsibility to choose the best overall coverage for the money, and thus they
do not bear the requisite "connection with" ERISA plans to trigger
pre-emption. Pp. 656-662.
(c) This conclusion is confirmed by the decision in Mackey v. Lanier
Collection Agency & Service, Inc., 486 U. S. 825, that ERISA preemption falls short of barring application of general state garnishment
statutes to participants' benefits in the hands of an ERISA plan. And
New York's surcharges do not impose the kind of substantive coverage
requirement binding plan administrators that was at issue in Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts,471 U. S. 724, since they do not require plans to deal with only one insurer or to insure against an entire
category of illnesses the plans might otherwise choose not to cover.
Pp. 662-664.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)

Syllabus
(d) Any conclusion other than the one drawn here would have the
unsettling result of barring any state regulation of hospital costs on the
theory that all laws with indirect economic effects on ERISA plans are
pre-empted. However, there is no hint in ERISA's legislative history
or elsewhere that Congress intended to squelch the efforts of several
States that were regulating hospital charges to some degree at the time
ERISA was passed. Moreover, such a broad interpretation of §514

would have rendered nugatory an entire federal statute-enacted after
ERISA by the same Congress-that gave comprehensive aid to state
health care rate regulation. Pp. 664-667.
(e) In reaching this decision, the Court does not hold that ERISA
pre-empts only direct regulation of ERISA plans. It is possible that a

state law might produce such acute, albeit indirect, economic effects
as to force an ERISA plan to adopt a certain scheme of coverage or
effectively restrict its choice of insurers, but such is not the case here.

P. 668.
14 F. 3d 708, reversed and remanded.
SOUTER, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

M. Patricia Smith, Assistant Attorney General of New
York, argued the cause for petitioners in all cases. With her
on the briefs for petitioners in No. 93-1414 were G. Oliver
Koppell, Attorney General, Jerry Boone, Solicitor General,
Peter H. Schiff and Andrea Green, Deputy Solicitors General, and Jane Lauer Barker, Assistant Attorney General.
Robert A. Bicks, Patricia Anne Kuhn, Alan C. Drewsen,
Jeffrey D. Chansler,Bartley J. Costello III, Eileen M. Considine, and Beverly Cohen filed briefs for petitioners in
No. 93-1408. Jeffrey J Sherrin, Philip Rosenberg, and H.
Bartow Farr III filed briefs for petitioner in No. 93-1415.
Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler argued the cause for
the United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General Days, James A.
Feldman, Allen H. Feldman, Nathaniel L Spiller, and
Judith D. Heimlich.
Craig P. Murphy argued the cause for respondents Travelers Insurance Co. et al. in all cases. With him on the brief
were Darrell M. Joseph, Stephen M. Shapiro, Kenneth S.

648

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Counsel

Geller, Andrew J. Pincus, Charles Rothfeld, Donald M.
Falk, Zoe Baird, Theresa L. Sorota, Philip E. Stano, and
Raymond A. d'Amico. Harold N. Iselin argued the cause
for respondents New York State Health Maintenance Organization Conference et al. in all cases. With him on the brief
were Wendy L. Ravitz and Glen D. Nager.t
t Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Minnesota et al. by Hubert H. Humphrey III,Attorney General of Minnesota,
and RichardS. Slowes, Assistant Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal,
Attorney General of Connecticut, and Phyllis E. Hyman, Assistant Attorney General, J Joseph Curran,Jr., Attorney General of Maryland, and
Stanley Lustman and Elizabeth M. Kameen, Assistant Attorneys General, Roland W Burris, Attorney General of Illinois, Pamela Carter,Attorney General of Indiana, Scott Harshbarger,Attorney General of Massachusetts, Jeremiah W. (Jay) Nixon, Attorney General of Missouri, Joseph
P. Mazurek, Attorney General of Montana, Ernest D. Preate,Jr., Attorney
General of Pennsylvania, Dan Morales, Attorney General of Texas, Darrell V McGraw, Jr., Attorney General of West Virginia, and Joseph B.
Meyer, Attorney General of Wyoming; for the American Federation of
State County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO, by Larry P. Weinberg,
John C. Dempsey, Robert M. Weinberg, Ian D. Lanoff, and Andrew D
Roth; for the American Hospital Association et al. by Peter F Nadel, Margaret J Hardy, William T McGrail, and Dorothy Grandolfi Wagg; and

for the National Governors' Association et al. by Richard Ruda and Lee
Fennell.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Association
of Private Pension and Welfare Plans et al. by Edward R. Maekiewicz; for
Group Health Association of America, Inc., by Alan J Davis and Brian
D. Pedrow; for the Federation of American Health Systems by Carl Weissburg and Robert E. Goldstein; for the National Carriers' Conference Committee by Benjamin W Boley, David P. Lee, and William H. Dempsey;
for the National Coordinating Committee for Multiemployer Plans by Gerald M. Feder and Diana L. S. Peters; for the NYSA-ILA Welfare Fund
et al. by C. Peter Lambos, Donato Caruso, Thomas W. Gleason, Ernest
L. Mathews, Jr., and Kevin Marrinan;and for the Trustees of and the
Pension Hospitalization Benefit Plan of the Electrical Industry et al. by
Edward J Groarke.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the International Foundation of
Employee Benefit Plans by Paul J Ondrasik, Jr., and Sara E. Hauptfuehrer; and for the Self-Insurance Institute of America, Inc., by George
J Pantos.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

JUSTICE SOUTER delivered the opinion of the Court.

A New York statute requires hospitals to collect surcharges from patients covered by a commercial insurer but
not from patients insured by a Blue Cross/Blue Shield plan,
and it subjects certain health maintenance organizations
(HMO's) to surcharges that vary with the number of Medicaid recipients each enrolls. N. Y Pub. Health Law § 2807-c
(McKinney 1993). These cases call for us to decide whether
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
(ERISA), 88 Stat. 829, as amended, 29 U. S. C. § 1001 et seq.
(1988 ed. and Supp. V), pre-empts the state provisions for
surcharges on bills of patients whose commercial insurance
coverage is purchased by employee health-care plans governed by ERISA, and for surcharges on HMO's insofar as
their membership fees are paid by an ERISA plan. We hold
that the provisions for surcharges do not "relate to" employee benefit plans within the meaning of ERISA's preemption provision, § 514(a), 29 U. S. C. § 1144(a), and accordingly suffer no pre-emption.
I
A
New York's Prospective Hospital Reimbursement Methodology (NYPHRM) regulates hospital rates for all in-patient
care, except for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries.1
N. Y. Pub. Health Law §2807-c (McKinney 1993).2 The
scheme calls for patients to be charged not for the cost of
their individual treatment, but for the average cost of treating the patient's medical problem, as classified under one or
another of 794 Diagnostic Related Groups (DRG's). The

IMedicare rates are set by the Federal Government unless States obtain
an express authorization from the United States Department of Health
and Human Services.
infra.

See 42 U. S. C. § 1395 et seq.; see also Part II-D,

2References are made to the laws of New York as they stood at the
times relevant to this litigation.

650

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court

charges allowable in accordance with DRG classifications are
adjusted for a specific hospital to reflect its particular operating costs, capital investments, bad debts, costs of charity
care, and the like.
Patients with Blue Cross/Blue Shield coverage, Medicaid
patients, and HMO participants are billed at a hospital's
DRG rate. N. Y. Pub. Health Law §2807-c(1)(a); see also
Brief for Petitioners Pataki et al. 4.3 Others, however, are
not. Patients served by commercial insurers providing inpatient hospital coverage on an expense-incurred basis, by
self-insured funds directly reimbursing hospitals, and by certain workers' compensation, volunteer firefighters' benefit,
ambulance workers' benefit, and no-fault motor vehicle insurance funds, must be billed at the DRG rate plus a 13% surcharge to be retained by the hospital. N. Y. Pub. Health
Law §2807-c(1)(b). For the year ending March 31, 1993,
moreover, hospitals were required to bill commercially insured patients for a further 11% surcharge to be turned over
to the State, with the result that these patients were charged
24% more than the DRG rate. §2807-c(11)(i).
New York law also imposes a surcharge on HMO's, which
varies depending on the number of eligible Medicaid recipients an HMO has enrolled, but which may run as high as
9% of the aggregate monthly charges paid by an HMO for
its members' in-patient hospital care. §§2807-c(2-a)(a) to
(2-a)(e). This assessment is not an increase in the rates to
be paid by an HMO to hospitals, but a direct payment by
the HMO to the State's general fund.
B
ERISA's comprehensive regulation of employee welfare
and pension benefit plans extends to those that provide
"medical, surgical, or hospital care or benefits" for plan par' Under certain circumstances, New York law permits HMO's to negotiate their own hospital payment schedules subject to state approval.
§2807-c(2)(b)(i).

Cite as: 514 U S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

ticipants or their beneficiaries "through the purchase of
insurance or otherwise." §3(1), 29 U. S. C. §1002(1). The
federal statute does not go about protecting plan participants
and their beneficiaries by requiring employers to provide any
given set of minimum benefits, but instead controls the administration of benefit plans, see §2, 29 U. S. C. § 1001(b), as
by imposing reporting and disclosure mandates, §§ 101-111,
29 U. S. C. §§ 1021-1031, participation and vesting requirements, §§ 201-211, 29 U. S. C. §§ 1051-1061, funding standards, §§ 301-308, 29 U. S. C. §§ 1081-1086, and fiduciary responsibilities for plan administrators, §§ 401-414, 29 U. S. C.
§§ 1101-1114. It envisions administrative oversight, imposes criminal sanctions, and establishes a comprehensive
civil enforcement scheme. §§ 501-515, 29 U. S. C. §§ 11311145. It also pre-empts some state law. §514, 29 U. S. C.

§1144.
Section 514(a) provides that ERISA "shall supersede any
and all State laws insofar as they.., relate to any employee
benefit plan" covered by the statute, 29 U. S. C. § 1144(a), although pre-emption stops short of "any law of any State
which regulates insurance." § 514(b)(2)(A), 29 U. S. C.
§ 1144(b)(2)(A). (This exception for insurance regulation is
itself limited, however, by the provision that an employee
welfare benefit plan may not "be deemed to be an insurance company or other insurer ... or to be engaged in the
business of insurance . . . . " §514(b)(2)(B), 29 U. S. C.
§ 1144(b)(2)(B).) Finally, ERISA saves from pre-emption
"any generally applicable criminal law of a State."
§514(b)(4), 29 U. S. C. § 1144(b)(4).
C
On the claimed authority of ERISA's general pre-emption
provision, several commercial insurers, acting as fiduciaries
of ERISA plans they administer, joined with their trade associations to bring actions against state officials in United
States District Court seeking to invalidate the 13%, 11%, and

652

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court

9% surcharge statutes. The New York State Conference of
Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans, Empire Blue Cross and
Blue Shield (collectively the Blues), and the Hospital Association of New York State intervened as defendants, and the
New York State Health Maintenance Organization Conference and several HMO's intervened as plaintiffs. The District Court consolidated the actions and granted summary
judgment to the plaintiffs. Travelers Ins. Co. v. Cuomo, 813
F. Supp. 996 (SDNY 1993). The court found that although
the surcharges "do not directly increase a plan's costs or [a]ffect the level of benefits to be offered" there could be "little
doubt that the [s]urcharges at issue will have a significant
effect on the commercial insurers and HMOs which do or
could provide coverage for ERISA plans and thus lead, at
least indirectly, to an increase in plan costs." Id., at 1003
(footnote omitted). It found that the "entire justification for
the [s]urcharges is premised on that exact result-that the
[s]urcharges will increase the cost of obtaining medical insurance through any source other than the Blues to a sufficient
extent that customers will switch their coverage to and ensure the economic viability of the Blues." Ibid. (footnote
omitted). The District Court concluded that this effect on
choices by ERISA plans was enough to trigger pre-emption
under § 514(a) and that the surcharges were not saved by
§ 514(b) as regulating insurance. Id., at 1003-1008. The
District Court accordingly enjoined enforcement of "those
surcharges against any commercial insurers or HMOs in connection with their coverage of ...

ERISA plans."

Id., at

1012. 4
4The District Court and the Court of Appeals both held that the injunctive remedy was not prohibited by the Tax Injunction Act, 28 U. S. C.
§1341, which provides that federal district courts "shall not enjoin, suspend or restrain the assessment . . . of any tax under State law where a
plain, speedy and efficient remedy may be had in the courts of such State."
Although these courts considered the surcharges to be taxes, they found
no "plain, speedy and efficient remedy" to exist in state court, since
ERISA § 502(e), 29 U. S. C. § 1132(e)(1) (1988 ed., Supp. V), divests state
courts of jurisdiction over such claims. See 813 F. Supp., at 1000-1001;

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed, relying on our decisions in Shaw v. Delta Air Lines, Inc., 463
U. S. 85 (1983), and District of Columbia v. Greater Washington Bd. of Trade, 506 U. S. 125 (1992), holding that
ERISA's pre-emption clause must be read broadly to reach
any state law having a connection with, or reference to, covered employee benefit plans. Travelers Ins. Co. v. Cuomo,
14 F. 3d 708, 718 (1994). In the light of our decision in
Ingersoll-Rand Co. v. McClendon, 498 U. S. 133, 141 (1990),
the Court of Appeals abandoned its own prior decision in
Rebaldo v. Cuomo, 749 F. 2d 133, 137 (1984), cert. denied,
472 U. S. 1008 (1985), which had drawn upon the definition of
the term "State" in ERISA § 514(c)(2), 29 U. S. C. § 1144(c)(2),
to conclude that "a state law must 'purpor[t] to regulate...
the terms and conditions of employee benefit plans' to fall
within the preemption provision" of ERISA. 14 F. 3d, at
719 (internal quotation marks omitted). Rejecting that
narrower approach to ERISA pre-emption, it relied on
our statement in Ingersoll-Rand that under the applicable
"'broad common-sense meaning,' a state law may 'relate to'
a benefit plan, and thereby be pre-empted, even if the law is
not specifically designed to affect such plans, or the effect is
only indirect." 498 U. S., at 139; see 14 F. 3d, at 718.
Travelers Ins. Co. v. Cuomo, 14 F. 3d 708, 713-714 (CA2 1994). Neither
party challenges this conclusion and we have no occasion to examine it.
Nor do we address the surcharge statute insofar as it applies to selfinsured funds. The trial court's ERISA analysis originally led it to enjoin
defendants "from enforcing those surcharges against any commercial insurers or HMOs in connection with their coverage of ... ERISA plans,"
without any further mention of self-insured funds. 813 F. Supp., at 1012.
After staying its decision as to the 13% surcharge pending appeal, see id.,
at 1012-1015, it ordered all named parties, including the Travelers Insurance Company (which served as fiduciary to a self-insured plan), to pay
that surcharge whenever required by state law, see Travelers Ins. Co. v.
New York State Health Maintenance Conference, No. 92 Civ. 3999 (SDNY
Apr. 27, 1993), reprinted in Brief for National Carriers' Conference Committee as Amicus Curiae 29a-31a. The Court of Appeals, in turn, did
not expressly address this application of the surcharge and, accordingly,
we leave it for consideration on remand.

654

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.

Opinion of the Court

The Court of Appeals agreed with the trial court that the
surcharges were meant to increase the costs of certain insurance and health care by HMO's, and held that this "purpose[ful] interfer[ence] with the choices that ERISA plans make
for health care coverage ...is sufficient to constitute [a]
'connection with' ERISA plans" triggering pre-emption.
Id., at 719. The court's conclusion, in sum, was that "the
three surcharges 'relate to' ERISA because they impose a
significant economic burden on commercial insurers and
HMOs" and therefore "have an impermissible impact on
ERISA plan structure and administration." Id., at 721. In
the light of its conclusion that the surcharge statutes were
not otherwise saved by any applicable exception, the court
held them pre-empted. Id., at 723. It recognized the apparent conflict between its conclusion and the decision of the
Third Circuit in United Wire, Metal and Machine Health
and Welfare Fund v. MorristownMemorial Hosp., 995 F. 2d
1179, 1191, cert. denied, 510 U. S.944 (1993), which held that
New Jersey's similar ratesetting statute "does not relate to
the plans in a way that triggers ERISA's preemption clause."
See 14 F. 3d, at 721, n. 3. We granted certiorari to resolve
this conflict, 513 U. S. 920 (1994), and now reverse and
remand.
II
Our past cases have recognized that the Supremacy
Clause, U. S. Const., Art. VI, may entail pre-emption of state
law either by express provision, by implication, or by a conflict between federal and state law. See Pacific Gas & Elec.
Co. v. State Energy Resources Conservation and Development Comm'n, 461 U. S.190, 203-204 (1983); Rice v. Santa
Fe Elevator Corp., 331 U. S.218, 230 (1947). And yet, despite the variety of these opportunities for federal preeminence, we have never assumed lightly that Congress has derogated state regulation, but instead have addressed claims
of pre-emption with the starting presumption that Congress
does not intend to supplant state law. See Maryland v.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Louisiana,451 U. S. 725, 746 (1981). Indeed, in cases like
this one, where federal law is said to bar state action in fields
of traditional state regulation, see Hillsborough County v.
Automated Medical Laboratories, Inc., 471 U. S. 707, 719
(1985), we have worked on the "assumption that the historic
police powers of the States were not to be superseded by the
Federal Act unless that was the clear and manifest purpose
of Congress." Rice, supra, at 230. See, e. g., Cipollone v.
Liggett Group, Inc., 505 U. S. 504, 516 (1992); id., at 532-533
(Blackmun, J., concurring in part, concurring in judgment in
part, and dissenting in part); Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v.
Massachusetts,471 U. S. 724, 740 (1985); Jones v. Rath Packing Co., 430 U. S. 519 (1977); Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line
R. Co., 272 U. S. 605, 611 (1926).
Since pre-emption claims turn on Congress's intent, Cipollone, supra,at 516; Shaw, supra,at 95, we begin as we do in
any exercise of statutory construction with the text of the
provision in question, and move on, as need be, to the structure and purpose of the Act in which it occurs. See, e. g.,
Ingersoll-Rand, supra, at 138. The governing text of
ERISA is clearly expansive. Section 514(a) marks for preemption "all state laws insofar as they . . . relate to any
employee benefit plan" covered by ERISA, and one might be
excused for wondering, at first blush, whether the words of
limitation ("insofar as they.., relate") do much limiting. If
"relate to" were taken to extend to the furthest stretch of
its indeterminacy, then for all practical purposes pre-emption
would never run its course, for "[r]eally, universally, relations
stop nowhere," H. James, Roderick Hudson xli (New York
ed., World's Classics 1980). But that, of course, would be to
read Congress's words of limitation as mere sham, and to
read the presumption against pre-emption out of the law
whenever Congress speaks to the matter with generality.
That said, we have to recognize that our prior attempt to
construe the phrase "relate to" does not give us much help
drawing the line here.

656

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.

Opinion of the Court

In Shaw, we explained that "[a] law 'relates to' an employee benefit plan, in the normal sense of the phrase, if it
has a connection with or reference to such a plan." 463
U. S., at 96-97. The latter alternative, at least, can be ruled
out. The surcharges are imposed upon patients and HMO's,
regardless of whether the commercial coverage or membership, respectively, is ultimately secured by an ERISA plan,
private purchase, or otherwise, with the consequence that
the surcharge statutes cannot be said to make "reference to"
ERISA plans in any manner. Cf. Greater Washington Bd.
of Trade, 506 U. S., at 130 (striking down District of Columbia law that "specifically refers to welfare benefit plans regulated by ERISA and on that basis alone is pre-empted").
But this still leaves us to question whether the surcharge
laws have a "connection with" the ERISA plans, and here an
uncritical literalism is no more help than in trying to construe "relate to." For the same reasons that infinite relations cannot be the measure of pre-emption, neither can infinite connections. We simply must go beyond the unhelpful
text and the frustrating difficulty of defining its key term,
and look instead to the objectives of the ERISA statute as a
guide to the scope of the state law that Congress understood
would survive.
A
As we have said before, § 514 indicates Congress's intent
to establish the regulation of employee welfare benefit plans
"as exclusively a federal concern." Alessi v. RaybestosManhattan, Inc., 451 U. S. 504, 523 (1981). We have found
that in passing §514(a), Congress intended
"to ensure that plans and plan sponsors would be subject
to a uniform body of benefits law; the goal was to minimize the administrative and financial burden of complying with conflicting directives among States or between
States and the Federal Government... [and to prevent]
the potential for conflict in substantive law... requiring

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

the tailoring of plans and employer conduct to the peculiarities of the law of each jurisdiction." IngersollRand, 498 U. S., at 142.
This objective was described in the House of Representatives by a sponsor of the Act, Representative Dent, as being
to "eliminat[e] the threat of conflicting and inconsistent State
and local regulation." 120 Cong. Rec. 29197 (1974). Senator Williams made the same point, that "with the narrow
exceptions specified in the bill, the substantive and enforcement provisions . . . are intended to preempt the field for
Federal regulations, thus eliminating the threat of conflicting
or inconsistent State and local regulation of employee benefit
plans." Id., at 29933. The basic thrust of the pre-emption
clause, then, was to avoid a multiplicity of regulation in order
to permit the nationally uniform administration of employee
benefit plans.
Accordingly in Shaw, for example, we had no trouble finding that New York's "Human Rights Law, which prohibit[ed]
employers from structuring their employee benefit plans in
a manner that discriminate[d] on the basis of pregnancy, and
[New York's] Disability Benefits Law, which require[d] employers to pay employees specific benefits, clearly 'relate[d]
to' benefit plans." 463 U. S., at 97. These mandates affecting coverage could have been honored only by varying the
subjects of a plan's benefits whenever New York law might
have applied, or by requiring every plan to provide all beneficiaries with a benefit demanded by New York law if New
York law could have been said to require it for any one beneficiary. Similarly, Pennsylvania's law that prohibited "plans
from ... requiring reimbursement [from the beneficiary] in
the event of recovery from a third party" related to employee benefit plans within the meaning of §514(a). FMC
Corp. v. Holliday, 498 U. S. 52, 60 (1990). The law "prohibit[ed] plans from being structured in a manner requiring reimbursement in the event of recovery from a third party"
and "require[d] plan providers to calculate benefit levels in

658

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court

Pennsylvania based on expected liability conditions that differ from those in States that have not enacted similar antisubrogation legislation," thereby "frustrat[ing] plan administrators' continuing obligation to calculate uniform benefit
levels nationwide." Ibid. Pennsylvania employees who recovered in negligence actions against tortfeasors would, by
virtue of the state law, in effect have been entitled to benefits
in excess of what plan administrators intended to provide,
and in excess of what the plan provided to employees in
other States. Along the same lines, New Jersey could not
prohibit plans from setting workers' compensation payments
off against employees' retirement benefits or pensions, because doing so would prevent plans from using a method of
calculating benefits permitted by federal law. Alessi, supra,
at 524. In each of these cases, ERISA pre-empted state
laws that mandated employee benefit structures or their
administration. Elsewhere, we have held that state laws
providing alternative enforcement mechanisms also relate
to ERISA plans, triggering pre-emption. See IngersollRand, supra.
B
Both the purpose and the effects of the New York surcharge statute distinguish it from the examples just given.
The charge differentials have been justified on the ground
that the Blues pay the hospitals promptly and efficiently and,
more importantly, provide coverage for many subscribers
whom the commercial insurers would reject as unacceptable
risks. The Blues' practice, called open enrollment, has consistently been cited as the principal reason for charge differentials, whether the differentials resulted from voluntary negotiation between hospitals and payers as was the case prior
to the NYPHRM system, or were created by the surcharges
as is the case now. See, e. g., Charge Differential Analysis
Committee, New York State Hospital Review and Planning
Council, Report (1989), reprinted in Joint Appendix in No.
93-7132 (CA2), pp. 702, 705, 706 (J. A. CA2); J. Corcoran,

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Superintendent of Insurance, Update of 1984 Position Paper
of The New York State Insurance Department on Inpatient
Reimbursement Rate Differential Provided Non-Profit Insurers 6-7 (1988) (J. A. CA2, at 699-700); R. Trussell, Prepayment for Hospital Care In New York State 170 (1958)
(J. A. CA2, at 664) (Trussell); Thorpe, Does All-Payer Rate
Setting Work? The Case of the New York Prospective Hospital Reimbursement Methodology, 12 J. Health Politics, Policy, & Law 391, 402 (1987). 5 Since the surcharges are presumably passed on at least in part to those who purchase
commercial insurance or HMO membership, their effects follow from their purpose. Although there is no evidence that
the surcharges will drive every health insurance consumer
to the Blues, they do make the Blues more attractive (or
less unattractive) as insurance alternatives and thus have an
indirect economic effect on choices made by insurance buyers, including ERISA plans.
An indirect economic influence, however, does not bind
plan administrators to any particular choice and thus function as a regulation of an ERISA plan itself; commercial insurers and HMO's may still offer more attractive packages
5

Although respondents argue that the surcharges have become superfluous now that all insurers have become subject to certain open enrollment requirements, see Brief for Respondents Travelers Insurance Co. et
al. 6-7, n. 5; 1992 N. Y Laws, ch. 501, §4 (effective Apr. 1, 1993), N. Y. Ins.
Law §3231 (McKinney Supp. 1995), it is not our responsibility to review

the continuing substantive rationale for the surcharges. Even so, the surcharges may well find support in an effort to compensate the Blues for the
current makeup of their insurance pool, which presumably continues to
reflect their longer history of open enrollment policies. See J. Corcoran,
Superintendent of Insurance, Position Paper of New York State Insurance
Department on Inpatient Reimbursement Rate Differential Provided

Non-Profit Insurers 8 (1984) (J.A. CA2, at 679) ("If there is any possibility
of an abrupt abandonment of the current hospital discount, consideration
should be given to the past history of health insurance enrollment in New
York which has left the Blue Cross/Blue Shield Plans with a core of unin-

surables obtained over the years and the ongoing liability resulting from
that enrollment").

660

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court

than the Blues. Nor does the indirect influence of the surcharges preclude uniform administrative practice or the provision of a uniform interstate benefit package if a plan wishes
to provide one. It simply bears on the costs of benefits and
the relative costs of competing insurance to provide them.
It is an influence that can affect a plan's shopping decisions,
but it does not affect the fact that any plan will shop for the
best deal it can get, surcharges or no surcharges.
There is, indeed, nothing remarkable about surcharges on
hospital bills, or their effects on overall cost to the plans and
the relative attractiveness of certain insurers. Rate variations among hospital providers are accepted examples of cost
variation, since hospitals have traditionally "attempted to
compensate for their financial shortfalls by adjusting their
price ... schedules for patients with commercial health insurance." Thorpe, 12 J. Health Politics, Policy, & Law, at
394. Charge differentials for commercial insurers, even
prior to state regulation, "varied dramatically across regions, ranging from 13 to 36 percent," presumably reflecting
the geographically disparate burdens of providing for the uninsured. Id., at 400; see id., at 398-399; see also, e.g., Trussell 170 (J. A. CA2, at 664); Bobinski, Unhealthy Federalism:
Barriers to Increasing Health Care Access for the Uninsured, 24 U. C. D. L. Rev. 255, 267, and n. 44 (1990).
If the common character of rate differentials even in the
absence of state action renders it unlikely that ERISA preemption was meant to bar such indirect economic influences
under state law, the existence of other common state action
with indirect economic effects on a plan's costs leaves the
intent to pre-empt even less likely. Quality standards, for
example, set by the State in one subject area of hospital
services but not another would affect the relative cost of
providing those services over others and, so, of providing
different packages of health insurance benefits. Even basic
regulation of employment conditions will invariably affect
the cost and price of services.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Quality control and workplace regulation, to be sure, are
presumably less likely to affect premium differentials among
competing insurers, but that does not change the fact that
such state regulation will indirectly affect what an ERISA
or other plan can afford or get for its money. Thus, in the
absence of a more exact guide to intended pre-emption than
§514, it is fair to conclude that mandates for rate differentials
would not be pre-empted unless other regulation with indirect effects on plan costs would be superseded as well. The
bigger the package of regulation with indirect effects that
would fall on the respondents' reading of § 514, the less likely
it is that federal regulation of benefit plans was intended to
eliminate state regulation of health care costs.
Indeed, to read the pre-emption provision as displacing all
state laws affecting costs and charges on the theory that they
indirectly relate to ERISA plans that purchase insurance
policies or HMO memberships that would cover such services would effectively read the limiting language in §514(a)
out of the statute, a conclusion that would violate basic principles of statutory interpretation and could not be squared
with our prior pronouncement that "[p]re-emption does not
occur ... if the state law has only a tenuous, remote, or
peripheral connection with covered plans, as is the case with
many laws of general applicability." District of Columbia
v. Greater Washington Bd. of Trade, 506 U. S., at 130, n. 1
(internal quotation marks and citations omitted). While
Congress's extension of pre-emption to all "state laws relating to benefit plans" was meant to sweep more broadly than
"state laws dealing with the subject matters covered by
ERISA[,] reporting, disclosure, fiduciary responsibility, and
the like," Shaw, 463 U. S., at 98, and n. 19, nothing in the
language of the Act or the context of its passage indicates
that Congress chose to displace general health care regulation, which historically has been a matter of local concern, see Hillsborough County v. Automated Medical Laboratories,Inc., 471 U. S., at 719; 1 B. Furrow, T. Greaney,

662

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court

S. Johnson, T. Jost, & R. Schwartz, Health Law §§ 1-6, 1-23
(1995).
In sum, cost uniformity was almost certainly not an object
of pre-emption, just as laws with only an indirect economic
effect on the relative costs of various health insurance packages in a given State are a far cry from those "conflicting
directives" from which Congress meant to insulate ERISA
plans. See 498 U. S., at 142. Such state laws leave plan
administrators right where they would be in any case, with
the responsibility to choose the best overall coverage for the
money. We therefore conclude that such state laws do not
bear the requisite "connection with" ERISA plans to trigger pre-emption.
C
This conclusion is confirmed by our decision in Mackey v.
Lanier Collection Agency & Service, Inc., 486 U. S. 825
(1988), which held that ERISA pre-emption falls short of
barring application of a general state garnishment statute
to participants' benefits in the hands of an ERISA welfare
benefit plan. We took no issue with the argument of the
Mackey plan's trustees that garnishment would impose administrative costs and burdens upon benefit plans, id., at 831,
but concluded from the text and structure of ERISA's preemption and enforcement provisions that "Congress did not
intend to forbid the use of state-law mechanisms of executing
judgments against ERISA welfare benefit plans, even when
those mechanisms prevent plan participants from receiving
their benefits." Id., at 831-832. If a law authorizing an
indirect source of administrative cost is not pre-empted, it
should follow that a law operating as an indirect source of
merely economic influence on administrative decisions, as
here, should not suffice to trigger pre-emption either.
The commercial challengers counter by invoking the earlier case of MetropolitanLife Ins. Co. v. Massachusetts,471
U. S. 724 (1985), which considered whether a State could
mandate coverage of specified minimum mental-health-care

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

benefits by policies insuring against hospital and surgical
expenses. Because the regulated policies included those
bought by employee welfare benefit plans, we recognized
that the law "directly affected" such plans. Id., at 732.
Although we went on to hold that the law was ultimately
saved from pre-emption by the insurance saving clause,
§ 514(b)(2)(A), 29 U. S. C. § 1144(b)(2)(A), respondents proffer
the first steps in our decision as support for their argument
that all laws affecting ERISA plans through their impact on
insurance policies "relate to" such plans and are pre-empted
unless expressly saved by the statute. The challengers take
Metropolitan Life too far, however.
The Massachusetts statute applied not only to "'[any blanket or general policy of insurance.., or any policy of accident
and sickness insurance"' but also to "'any employees' health
and welfare fund which provide[d] hospital expense and surgical expense benefits."' 471 U. S., at 730, n. 11. In fact,
the State did not even try to defend its law as unrelated to
employee benefit plans for the purpose of § 514(a). Id., at
739. As a result, there was no reason to distinguish with
any precision between the effects on insurers that are sufficiently connected with employee benefit plans to "relate to"
the plans and those effects that are not. It was enough to
address the distinction bluntly, saying on the one hand that
laws like the one in Metropolitan Life relate to plans since
they "bea[r] indirectly but substantially on all insured benefit
plans, . . . requir[ing] them to purchase the mental-health
benefits specified in the statute when they purchase a certain
kind of common insurance policy," ibid., but saying on the
other that "laws that regulate only the insurer, or the way
in which it may sell insurance, do not 'relate to' benefit
plans," id., at 741. Even this basic distinction recognizes
that not all regulations that would influence the cost of insurance would relate to employee benefit plans within the meaning of §514(a). If, for example, a State were to regulate
sales of insurance by commercial insurers more stringently

664

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court

than sales by insurers not for profit, the relative cost of commercial insurance would rise; we would nonetheless say, following MetropolitanLife, that such laws "do not 'relate to'
benefit plans in the first instance." Ibid. And on the same
authority we would say the same about the basic tax exemption enjoyed by nonprofit insurers like the Blues since the
days long before ERISA, see Marmor, New York's Blue
Cross and Blue Shield, 1934-1990: The Complicated Politics
of Nonprofit Regulation, 16 J. Health Politics, Policy, & Law
761, 769 (1991) (tracing New York Blue Cross's special tax
treatment as a prepayment organization back to 1934); 1934
N. Y Laws, ch. 595; and yet on respondents' theory the exemption would necessarily be pre-empted as affecting insurance prices and plan costs.
In any event, Metropolitan Life cannot carry the weight
the commercial insurers would place on it. The New York
surcharges do not impose the kind of substantive coverage
requirement binding plan administrators that was at issue in
Metropolitan Life. Although even in the absence of mandated coverage there might be a point at which an exorbitant
tax leaving consumers with a Hobson's choice would be
treated as imposing a substantive mandate, no showing has
been made here that the surcharges are so prohibitive as to
force all health insurance consumers to contract with the
Blues. As they currently stand, the surcharges do not require plans to deal with only one insurer, oi to insure against
an entire category of illnesses they might otherwise choose
to leave without coverage.
D
It remains only to speak further on a point already raised,
that any conclusion other than the one we draw would bar
any state regulation of hospital costs. The basic DRG system (even without any surcharge), like any other interference with the hospital services market, would fall on a theory that all laws with indirect economic effects on ERISA

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

plans are pre-empted under §514(a). This would be an unsettling result and all the more startling because several
States, including New York, regulated hospital charges to
one degree or another at the time ERISA was passed, see,
e. g., Cal. Ins. Code Ann. § 11505 (West 1972) (nonprofit hospitals); Colo. Rev. Stat. §§ 10-16-130, 10-17-108(2) to 108(3),
10-17-119(b) (1973); Conn. Gen. Stat. §§ 33-166, 33-172 (medical service corporations), §33-179k (health care centers)
(1975); Md. Ann. Code, Art. 43, §§ 568H, 568U, 568W (Michie
Supp. 1976); Mass. Gen. Laws Ann., ch. 176A, §§ 5, 6 (West
1958), as amended by 1968 Mass. Acts, ch. 432, §2, and 1969
Mass. Acts, ch. 874, § 1 (hospital service corporations), Mass.
Gen. Laws Ann., ch. 176B, §4 (West 1958 and Supp. 1987)
(medical service corporations); Health Maintenance Organization Act, 1973 N. J. Laws, ch. 337, §8, N. J. Stat. Ann.
§ 26:2J-8(b) (West Supp. 1986); N. Y Pub. Health Law §2807
(McKinney 1971); 1973 Wash. Laws, ch. 5, § 15, Rev. Code
Wash. Ann. §70.39.140 (West 1975). And yet there is not so
much as a hint in ERISA's legislative history or anywhere
else that Congress intended to squelch these state efforts.
Even more revealing is the National Health Planning and
Resources Development Act of 1974 (NHPRDA), Pub. L. 93641, 88 Stat. 2225, §§ 1-3, repealed by Pub. L. 99-660, title
VII, §701(a), 100 Stat. 3799, which was adopted by the same
Congress that passed ERISA, and only months later. The
NHPRDA sought to encourage and help fund state responses
to growing health care costs and the widely diverging availability of health services. § 2, 88 Stat. 2226-2227; see generally National GerimedicalHospital and Gerontology Center
v. Blue Cross of Kansas City, 452 U. S. 378, 383-388 (1981).
It provided for the organization and partial funding of regional "health systems agencies" responsible for gathering
data as well as for planning and developing health resources
in designated health service areas. 88 Stat. 2229-2242.
The scheme called for designating state health planning and

666

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court

development agencies in qualifying States to coordinate
development of health services policy. Id., at 2242-2244.
These state agencies, too, would be eligible for federal funding, id., at 2249, including grants "If]or the purpose of demonstrating the effectiveness of State Agencies regulating
rates for the provision of health care.., within the State."
Ibid. Exemption from ERISA pre-emption is nowhere
mentioned as a prerequisite to the receipt of such funding-,
indeed, the only legal prerequisite to be eligible for rate regulation grants was "satisfactory evidence that the State
Agency has under State law the authority to carry out rate
regulation functions in accordance with this section ......
Ibid.
The Secretary was required to provide technical assistance
to the designated agencies by promulgating "[a] uniform system for calculating rates to be charged to health insurers
and other health institutions payors by health service institutions." Id., at 2254. Although the NHPRDA placed
substantive restrictions on the system the Secretary could
establish, the subject matter (and therefore the scope of
envisioned state regulation) covers the same ground that
New York's surcharges tread. The Secretary's system was
supposed to:
"(A) [b]e based on an all-inclusive rate for various
categories of patients ...[,]
"(B) [p]rovide that such rates reflect the true cost of
providing services to each such category of patients

..[,]
"(C) [p]rovide for an appropriate application of such
system in the different types of institutions ...[, and]
"(D) [p]rovide that differences in rates to various
classes of purchasers (including health insurers, direct
service payors, and other health institution payors) be
based on justified and documented differences in the
costs of operation of health service institutions made

Cite as: 514 U. S. 645 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

possible by the actions of such purchasers." Id., at
2254-2255.
The last-quoted subsection seems to envision a system
very much like the one New York put in place, but the
significant point in any event is that the statute's provision
for comprehensive aid to state health care rate regulation
is simply incompatible with pre-emption of the same by
ERISA. To interpret ERISA's pre-emption provision as
broadly as respondents suggest would have rendered the
entire NHPRDA utterly nugatory, since it would have left
States without the authority to do just what Congress was
expressly trying to induce them to do by enacting the
NHPRDA. Given that the NHPRDA was enacted after
ERISA and by the same Congress, it just makes good sense
to reject such an interpretation.6
history of Medicare regulation makes the same point, confirming
that Congress never envisioned ERISA pre-emption as blocking state
health care cost control, but rather meant to encourage and rely on state
experimentation like New York's. See generally K. Davis, G. Anderson,
D. Rowland, & E. Steinberg, Health Care Cost Containment 23-25, 81, 99
(1990). Since the time DRG systems were tried out in the 1960's and
1970's, Congress has consistently shown its awareness and encouragement
of controlled payment alternatives to the federal regulatory scheme. The
Social Security Amendments of 1967, Pub. L. 90-248, §402(a), 81 Stat.
930-931, as amended 42 U. S. C. § 1395b-1, for example, granted the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare (now Health and Human Services)
the authority to waive Medicare rules to allow for physician and hospital
reimbursement according to approved state payment schedules. In the
Social Security Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. 92-603, § 222(a)(5), 86 Stat.
1391, Congress specifically called upon the Secretary to report on prospective reimbursement schemes that had been thus favored already or could
be in the future. Later on, after the development of all-payor ratesetting
schemes like the NYPHRM and New Jersey's Health Care Cost Reduction
Act of 1978, 1978 N. J. Laws, ch. 83, Congress's Medicare waiver provisions
evolved to the point of explicit reference to a State's commitment to apply
its hospital reimbursement control system to a substantial portion of hospitals and inpatient services statewide. See 42 U. S. C. §§ 1395ww(c)(1),
(c)(5)(A). Indeed, in its Report on the Social Security Amendments of
6 The

668

NEW YORK STATE CONFERENCE OF BLUE CROSS &
BLUE SHIELD PLANS v. TRAVELERS INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court

III
That said, we do not hold today that ERISA pre-empts
only direct regulation of ERISA plans, nor could we do that
with fidelity to the views expressed in our prior opinions on
the matter. See, e. g., Ingersoll-Rand, 498 U. S., at 139;
Pilot Life Ins. Co. v. Dedeaux, 481 U. S. 41, 47-48 (1987);
Shaw, 463 U. S., at 98. We acknowledge that a state law
might produce such acute, albeit indirect, economic effects,
by intent or otherwise, as to force an ERISA plan to adopt
a certain scheme of substantive coverage or effectively restrict its choice of insurers, and that such a state law might
indeed be pre-empted under § 514. But as we have shown,
New York's surcharges do not fall into either category; they
affect only indirectly the relative prices of insurance policies,
a result no different from myriad state laws in areas traditionally subject to local regulation, which Congress could not
possibly have intended to eliminate.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is therefore reversed, and the cases are remanded for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

1983, the House Committee on Ways and Means recommended that States
should not be held to traditional DRG-based reimbursement systems.
"State systems provide a laboratory for innovative methods of controlling
health care costs, and should, therefore, not be limited to one methodology." H. R. Rep. No. 98-25, pt. 1, pp. 146-147 (1983). The Committee
concluded that "State systems covering all payors have proven effective
in reducing health costs and should be encouraged. Such State programs
may be useful models for our national system." Id., at 147-148. While
the history of Medicare waivers and implementing legislation enacted
after ERISA itself is, of course, not conclusive proof of the congressional
intent behind ERISA, the fact that Congress envisioned state experiments with comprehensive hospital reimbursement regulation supports
our conclusion that ERISA was not meant to pre-empt basic rate
regulation.

