AMENDMENTS TO
FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE
The following amendments to the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure were prescribed by the Supreme Court of the United States on April
27, 1995, pursuant to 28 U. S. C. ยง2075, and were reported to Congress by
THE CMIEF JUSTICE on the same date. For the letter of transmittal, see
post, p. 1146. The Judicial Conference report referred to in that letter is
not reproduced herein.
Note that under 28 U. S. C. ยง2075, such amendments shall take effect
no earlier than December 1 of the year in which they are transmitted to
Congress unless otherwise provided by law.
For earlier publication of the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure
and amendments thereto, see, e. g., 461 U. S. 973, 471 U. S. 1147, 480 U. S.
1077, 490 U. S. 1119, 500 U. S. 1017, 507 U. S. 1075, and 511 U. S. 1169.

1145

LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WASHINGTON, D. C.

APRIL

27, 1995

To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress Assembled:
By direction of the Supreme Court of the United States, I
have the honor to submit to the Congress the amendments to
the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure that have been
adopted by the Supreme Court of the United States pursuant
to Section 2075 of Title 28, United States Code. To maintain
uniformity between revised and unrevised Rules, the Court
has edited the amendments transmitted to the Supreme
Court by the Judicial Conference of the United States to use
the word "shall" in a consistent manner.
The rules are accompanied by an excerpt from the report
of the Judicial Conference of the United States' Committee
on Rules of Practice and Procedure and that Committee's
Advisory Committee Notes. In order to minimize confusion,
a footnote noting the changes made by the Supreme Court
has been added to the marked-up version of the proposed
amendments that accompanies the Advisory Committee
Notes.
Sincerely,
(Signed) WILLIAM H. REHNQUIST
Chief Justice of the United States

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
APRIL 27, 1995
ORDERED:

1. That the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure be,
and they hereby are, amended by including therein amendments to Bankruptcy Rules 8018 and 9029.
[See infra, pp. 1149-1150.]
2. That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
Bankruptcy Procedure shall take effect on December 1, 1995,
and shall govern all proceedings in bankruptcy cases thereafter commenced and, insofar as just and practicable, all proceedings in bankruptcy cases then pending.

3. That THE CHIEF JUSTICE be, and hereby is, authorized
to transmit to the Congress the foregoing amendments to
the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2075 of Title 28, United
States Code.

AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL RULES
OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE
Rule 8018. Rules by circuit councils and district courts;
procedure when there is no controlling law.
(a) Local rules by circuit councils and district courts.
(1) Circuit councils which have authorized bankruptcy
appellate panels pursuant to 28 U. S. C. ยง 158(b) and the
district courts may, acting by a majority of the judges
of the council or district court, make and amend rules
governing practice and procedure for appeals from orders or judgments of bankruptcy judges to the respective bankruptcy appellate panel or district court consistent with-but not duplicative of-Acts of Congress and
the rules of this Part VIII. Local rules shall conform
to any uniform numbering system prescribed by the
Judicial Conference of the United States. Rule 83
F. R. Civ. P. governs the procedure for making and
amending rules to govern appeals.
(2) A local rule imposing a requirement of form shall
not be enforced in a manner that causes a party to lose
rights because of a nonwillful failure to comply with the
requirement.
(b) Procedure when there is no controlling law.-A bankruptcy appellate panel or district judge may regulate practice in any manner consistent with federal law, these rules,
Official Forms, and local rules of the circuit council or district
court. No sanction or other disadvantage may be imposed
for noncompliance with any requirement not in federal law,
federal rules, Official Forms, or the local rules of the circuit
council or district court unless the alleged violator has been
furnished in the particular case with actual notice of the
requirement.
1149

RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

Rule 9029. Local bankruptcy rules;procedure when there is
no controlling law.
(a) Local bankruptcy rules.
(1) Each district court acting by a majority of its district judges may make and amend rules governing practice and procedure in all cases and proceedings within
the district court's bankruptcy jurisdiction which are
consistent with-but not duplicative of-Acts of Congress and these rules and which do not prohibit or limit
the use of the Official Forms. Rule 83 F. R. Civ. P.
governs the procedure for making local rules. A district court may authorize the bankruptcy judges of the
district, subject to any limitation or condition it may
prescribe and the requirements of 83 F. R. Civ. P., to
make and amend rules of practice and procedure which
are consistent with-but not duplicative of-Acts of
Congress and these rules and which do not prohibit or
limit the use of the Official Forms. Local rules shall
conform to any uniform numbering system prescribed
by the Judicial Conference of the United States.
(2) A local rule imposing a requirement of form shall
not be enforced in a manner that causes a party to lose
rights because of a nonwillful failure to comply with
the requirement.
(b) Procedure when there is no controlling law.-A judge
may regulate practice in any manner consistent with federal
law, these rules, Official Forms, and local rules of the district.
No sanction or other disadvantage may be imposed for noncompliance with any requirement not in federal law, federal
rules, Official Forms, or the local rules of the district unless
the alleged violator has been furnished in the particular case
with actual notice of the requirement.

