OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

ANDERSON, DIRECTOR, CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES, ET AL. V.
EDWARDS, GUARDIAN AD LITEM FOR
EDWARDS, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 93-1883.

Argued January 18, 1995-Decided March 22, 1995

The federal "family filing unit rule," 42 U. S. C. § 602(a)(38), requires that
all cohabiting nuclear family members be grouped into a single "assistance unit" (AU) for purposes of eligibility and benefits determinations
under the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) program.
California's "non-sibling filing unit rule" (California Rule) additionally
groups into a single AU all needy children who live in the same household, whether or not they are siblings, if there is only one adult caring
for them. When application of the California Rule resulted in decreases in the maximum per capita AFDC benefits due respondents,
who include Verna Edwards and her cohabiting dependent minor granddaughter and two grandnieces, they brought this action for declaratory
and injunctive relief against petitioners, the state officials charged with
administering California's AFDC program, claiming that the California
Rule violates federal law. The District Court granted summary judgment for respondents, and the Court of Appeals affirmed.
Held- Federal law does not prohibit California from grouping into a single
AU all needy children living in the same household under the care of
one relative. Pp. 149-158.
(a) The California Rule does not violate 45 CFR §233.20(a)(2)(viii),
an AFDC regulation prohibiting States from reducing the amount of
assistance "solely because of the presence in the household of a nonlegally responsible individual." Respondents are simply wrong when
they contend that, e. g., it was solely the arrival in Mrs. Edwards' home
of her grandnieces that triggered a decline in the per capita benefits
that previously were paid to her granddaughter; rather, it was the
grandnieces' presence plus their application for AFDC assistance
through Mrs. Edwards. Had the grandnieces, after coming to live with
Mrs. Edwards, either not applied for assistance or applied through
a different caretaker relative living in the home, the California
Rule would not have affected the granddaughter's benefits at all.
P. 151.

ANDERSON v. EDWARDS
Syllabus
(b) Nor does the California Rule violate 45 CFR §§ 233.20(a)(2)(viii),
233.20(a)(3)(ii)(D), and 233.90(a)(1), which prohibit States from assuming
that a cohabitant's income is available to a needy child absent a casespecific determination that it is actually or legally available. First, the
California Rule does not necessarily reduce the benefits of all needy
children when one of them receives outside income, for California may
rationally assume that the caretaker will observe her duties to all of the
AU's members and will take into account the receipt of any such income
by one child when expending funds on behalf of the AU. Second, the
California Rule simply authorizes the combination of incomes of all AU
members in order to determine the amount of the AU's assistance payment. This accords with the very definition of an AU as the group of
individuals whose income and resources are considered "as a unit" in
determining the amount of benefits, 45 CFR § 206.10(b)(5), and is authorized by the AFDC statute itself, 42 U. S. C. §602(a)(7)(A), which provides that a state agency "shall, in determining need, take into consideration any ... income and resources of any child or relative claiming
[AFDC assistance]." In light of the great latitude that States have in
administering their AFDC programs, see, e. g., Dandridgev. Williams,
397 U. S. 471, 478, that statute is reasonably construed to allow States,
in determining a child's need (and therefore the amount of her assistance), to consider the income and resources of all cohabiting children
and relatives also claiming assistance. The availability regulations are
addressed to an entirely different problem: attempts by States to count
income and resources controlled by persons outside the AU for the purpose of determining the amount of the AU's assistance. See 42 Fed.
Reg. 6583-6584, and, e. g., King v. Smith, 392 U. S. 309. The California
Rule has no such effect. Pp. 152-155.
(c) Respondents' alternative arguments-(1) that the federal family
filing unit rule occupies the field and thereby pre-empts California from
adopting its Rule, and (2) that the California Rule violates 45 CFR
§§233.10(a)(1) and 233.20(a)(1)(i), which require equitable treatment
among AFDC recipients-lack merit. Pp. 156-158.
12 F. 3d 154, reversed and remanded.
THOMAS, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Dennis Paul Eckhart, Supervising Deputy Attorney General of California, argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Daniel E. Lungren, Attorney General, Charlton G. Holland III, Assistant Attorney General,
and G. Mateo Muitoz, Deputy Attorney General.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 143 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

Paul A. Engelmayer argued the cause for the United
States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him on the
brief were Solicitor General Days, Assistant Attorney General Hunger, Deputy Solicitor General Kneedler, William
Kanter, and Howard S. Scher.
Katherine E. Meiss argued the cause for respondents.
With her on the brief were Alice Bussiere, Patrice E. McElroy, Jodie Berger,and Paul Lee.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case presents the question whether federal law governing the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC)
program prohibits States from grouping into a single AFDC
JUSTICE THOMAS

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Minnesota et al. by Hubert H. Humphrey III,Attorney General of Minnesota,
and LauraSue Schlatter, Assistant Attorney General, and by the Attorneys General for their respective jurisdictions as follows: Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, Scott Harshbargerof Massachusetts, G. Oliver
Koppell of New York, Michael F Easley of North Carolina, Theodore R.
Kulongoski of Oregon, Ernest D. Preate, Jr., of Pennsylvania, Jeffrey B.
Pine of Rhode Island, Jeffrey L. Amestoy of Vermont, Rosalie Simmonds
Ballentine of the Virgin Islands, and James S. Gilmore III of Virginia;
for the State of Nevada et al. by FrankieSue Del Papa,Attorney General
of Nevada, and John Albrecht, Deputy Attorney General, Bruce M. Botelho, Attorney General of Alaska, Vanesa Ruiz, Corporation Counsel of
the District of Columbia, Robert A Butterworth, Attorney General of
Florida, DonaldL. Paillette,Acting Attorney General of Guam, Robert A
Marks, Attorney General of Hawaii, Roland W. Burris, Attorney General
of Illinois, Joseph P. Mazurek, Attorney General of Montana, Deborah T
Poritz, Attorney General of New Jersey, Susan B. Loving, Attorney General of Oklahoma, Jeffrey B. Pine, Attorney General of Rhode Island,
Mark W Barnett, Attorney General of South Dakota, and Joseph B.
Meyer, Attorney General of Wyoming, for the Council of State Governments et al. by Richard Ruda and Lee Fennell; and for the Pacific Legal
Foundation by Ronald A Zumbrun and John H. Findley.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Alliance for
Children's Rights et al. by Charles N. Freiberg and David B. Goodwin;
and for the American Association of Retired Persons by Steven S. Zaleznick and Michael Schuster.

ANDERSON v. EDWARDS
Opinion of the Court

"assistance unit" all needy children who live in the same
household under the care of one relative. Such grouping
allows States to grant equal assistance to equally sized
needy households, regardless of whether the children in the
household are all siblings. The Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit concluded that federal law forbids States to
equalize assistance in this manner. We disagree and accordingly reverse.
I
AFDC is a joint federal-state public assistance program
authorized by Title IV-A of the Social Security Act, 49 Stat.
627, 42 U. S. C. § 601 et seq. (1988 ed. and Supp. V). As its
name indicates, the AFDC program "is designed to provide
financial assistance to needy dependent children and the parents or relatives who live with and care for them." Shea v.
Vialpando, 416 U. S. 251, 253 (1974). The program "reimburses each State which chooses to participate with a percentage of the funds it expends," so long as theState "administer[s] its assistance program pursuant to a state plan that
conforms to applicable federal statutes and regulations."
Heckler v. Turner,470 U. S. 184, 189 (1985) (citing 42 U. S. C.
§§ 602, 603).
One applicable federal rule requires state plans to provide
that all members of a nuclear family who live in the same
household must apply for AFDC assistance if any one of
them applies; in addition, the income of all of these applicants
must be aggregated in determining their eligibility and
the amount of their monthly benefits. See 42 U.S. C.
§602(a)(38) (1988 ed., Supp. V); 45 CFR §206.10(a)(1)(vii)
(1993). See generally Bowen v. Gilliard, 483 U. S. 587
(1987) (upholding rule against constitutional challenges).
This "family filing unit rule" requires that all cohabiting nuclear family members be grouped into a single AFDC "assistance unit" (AU), defined by federal law as "the group of individuals whose income, resources and needs are considered as
a unit for purposes of determining eligibility and the amount

Cite as: 514 U. S. 143 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

of payment." 45 CFR §206.10(b)(5) (1993). The regulation
at issue in this case-California's "non-sibling filing unit
rule" (California Rule)-goes even further in this regard.
It provides: "Two or more AUs in the same home shall
be combined into one AU when... [t]here is only one [adult]
caretaker relative." Cal. Dept. of Social Servs., Manual of
Policies & Procedures § 82-824.1.13; App. to Pet. for Cert.
52. In other words, the California Rule groups into a single
AU all needy children who live in the same household,
whether or not they are siblings, if there is only one adult
caring for all of them.
The consolidation of two or more AU's into a single AU
pursuant to the California Rule results in a decrease in the
maximum per capita AFDC benefits for which the affected
individuals are eligible. This occurs because, while California (like many States) increases the amount of assistance
for each additional person added to an AU, the increase is
not proportional. Thus, as the number of persons in the
AU increases, the per capita payment to the AU decreases. 1
IBetween July 1, 1989, and August 31, 1991, California adhered to the
following schedule of maximum monthly AFDC payments:
Number of
Maximum aid
Per capita
persons in AU
payment
payment
1
$ 341
$341.00
2
560
280.00
3
694
231.33
4
824
206.00
5
940
188.00
6
1,057
176.17
7
1,160
165.71
8
1,265
158.13
9
1,366
151.78
10 or more
1,468
146.80
Joint Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Plaintiffs'
Motion for Summary Judgment in No. CV-S 911473 (ED Cal.), p. 7 (Feb.
13, 1992). Cf. Dandridgev. Williams, 397 U. S.471, 488 (1970) (reproducing similar Maryland schedule.) The current schedule is set forth in

ANDERSON v. EDWARDS
Opinion of the Court

See, e. g., Dandridge v. Williams, 397 U. S. 471, 473-474
(1970) (sustaining a Maryland AFDC regulation under which
"the standard of need increases with each additional person
in the household, but the increments become proportionately smaller").
The situation of respondent Verna Edwards and her relatives illustrates the operation of these two rules. Initially,
Mrs. Edwards received AFDC assistance on behalf of her
granddaughter, for whom she is the sole caretaker.2 As a
one-person AU, the granddaughter was eligible to receive a
"maximum aid payment" of $341 per month prior to September 1991. See n. 1, supra. Later, Mrs. Edwards began caring for her two grandnieces, who are siblings. Pursuant to
the federal family fling unit rule, the grandnieces are
grouped together in a two-person AU, which was eligible to
receive $560 per month in benefits prior to September 1991.
See ibid. Because none of these children received any outside income, Mrs. Edwards received $901 per month in
AFDC assistance on behalf of the three girls. In June 1991,
however, Mrs. Edwards received notice that pursuant to the
California Rule, her granddaughter and two grandnieces
would be grouped together into a single three-person AU,
which was eligible to receive only $694 per month. See ibid.
The California Rule thus reduced AFDC payments to the
Edwards household by $207 per month.
On behalf of themselves and others similarly situated, Mrs.
Edwards, her three relatives, and other respondents brought
this action against petitioners, the state officials charged
with administering California's AFDC program, in the DisCal. Wel & Inst. Code Ann. § 11450(a)(1) (West Supp. 1994), as modified
by2 §§ 11450.01(a), (b) and 11450.015(a).

Mrs. Edwards does not receive AFDC assistance for herself As explained in the text, the family filing unit rule requires parents to apply for
assistance along with their children. But apart from this rule, caretaker
relatives need not apply for assistance along with the needy children for
whom they care, although they may do so.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 143 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

trict Court for the Eastern District of California. Pursuant
to Rev. Stat. § 1979, 42 U. S. C. § 1983, respondents sought a
declaration that the California Rule violates federal law and
an injunction prohibiting petitioners from enforcing it. On
cross-motions for summary judgment, the District Court
granted the requested relief. It found the California Rule
indistinguishable in relevant respects from the Washington
regulation invalidated in Beaton v. Thompson, 913 F. 2d 701
(CA9 1990).
In a brief opinion, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed. It found the California Rule "virtually identical" to the Washington regulation that Beaton had held to
be "inconsistent with federal law and regulation." Edwards
v. Healy, 12 F. 3d 154, 155 (1993). Since the Court of Appeals issued its decision, the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS)-which administers the AFDC program on the federal level-determined that its own AFDC
regulations "do not conflict with the State policy option to
consolidate assistance units in the same household." Transmittal No. ACF-AT-94-6 (Mar. 16, 1994), App. to Pet. for
Cert. 37. Moreover, a number of Federal Courts of Appeals
and state courts of last resort have recently issued rulings
at odds with the decision below.3 We granted certiorari to
resolve this conflict, 512 U. S. 1288 (1994), and we now
reverse.
II
In Beaton, the Ninth Circuit ruled that grouping into
the same AU all needy children (both siblings and nonsiblings alike) who live in the same household is inconsistent
with three different federal AFDC regulations, namely, 45
CFR §§233.20(a)(2)(viii), 233.20(a)(3)(ii)(D), and 233.90(a)(1)
8
See Bray v. Dowling, 25 F. 3d 135 (CA2 1994) (New York policy), cert.
pending, No. 94-5845; Wilkes v. Gomez, 32 F. 3d 1324 (CA8 1994) (Minnesota rule), cert. pending, No. 94-6929; MacInnes v. Commissioner of Public Welfare, 412 Mass. 790, 593 N. E. 2d 222 (1992); Morrell v. Flaherty,

338 N. C. 230, 449 S. E. 2d 175 (1994).

ANDERSON v. EDWARDS
Opinion of the Court

(1993). 4 See Beaton, supra,at 704. Respondents rely principally on these three regulations in their submission here.
As we examine the regulations, we keep in mind that in
AFDC cases, "the starting point of the.., analysis must be
a recognition that . . . federal law gives each State great
latitude in dispensing its available funds." Dandridge,
supra, at 478. Accord, Shea, 416 U. S., at 253 (States "are
given broad discretion in determining both the standard of
need and the level of benefits"). In light of this cardinal
4Section 233.20(a)(2)(viii) provides:

"[T]he money amount of any need item included in the standard will not
be prorated or otherwise reduced solely because of the presence in the
household of a non-legally responsible individual; and the [state] agency
will not assume any contribution from such individual for the support of
the assistance unit . ..."
Section 233.20(a)(3)(ii) provides in part:
"[I]n determining need and the amount of the assistance payment....
"(D) Income... and resources available for current use shall be considered. To the extent not inconsistent with any other provision of this
chapter, income and resources are considered available both when actually
available and when the applicant or recipient has a legal interest in a
liquidated sum and has the legal ability to make such sum available for
support and maintenance."
Section 233.90(a)(1) provides:
"The determination whether a child has been deprived of parental support or care by reason of the death, continued absence from the home, or
physical or mental incapacity of a parent, or (if the State plan includes
such cases) the unemployment of his or her parent who is the principal
earner will be made only in relation to the child's natural or adoptive
parent, or in relation to the child's stepparent who is married, under State
law, to the child's natural or [adoptive] parent and is legally obligated to
support the child under State law of general applicability which requires
stepparents to support stepchildren to the same extent that natural or
adoptive parents are required to support their children. Under this requirement, the inclusion in the family, or the presence in the home, of a
'substitute parent' or 'man-in-the-house' or any individual other than one
described in this paragraph is not an acceptable basis for a finding of ineligibility or for assuming the availability of income by the State . ..."

Cite as: 514 U. S. 143 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

principle, we conclude that the federal regulations do not
preclude the adoption of the California Rule.
A
According to § 233.20(a)(2)(viii), States may not reduce the
amount of assistance for which AFDC applicants are eligible
"solely because of the presence in the household of a nonlegally responsible individual." Using the example of Mrs.
Edwards and her relatives, respondents observe that, although the granddaughter received AFDC benefits of $341
per month before the two grandnieces came to live in Mrs.
Edwards' household, she received only one-third of $694, or
$231.33, per month after the grandnieces arrived and the
California Rule took effect. See Brief for Respondents 6,
22. This reduction in the granddaughter's per capita benefits occurred, according to respondents, "solely because of the
presence in the household of" the grandnieces, who are
"non-legally responsible individual[s]" in relation to the
granddaughter.
Respondents are simply wrong. It was not solely the
presence of the grandnieces that triggered the decline in per
capita benefits paid to the granddaughter; rather, it was the
grandnieces' presence plus their application for AFDC assistance through Mrs. Edwards. Had the two grandnieces,
after coming to live in Mrs. Edwards' home, either not applied for assistance or applied through a different caretaker
relative living in that home, the California Rule would not
have affected the granddaughter's benefits at all.5
5Although needy children will receive less in per capita benefits under
the California Rule, this reduction affects only children who share a household. California is simply recognizing the economies of scale that inhere
in such living arrangements. See, e. g., Bowen v. Gilliard, 483 U. S. 587,
599 (1987) (crediting "'the common sense proposition that individuals living with others usually have reduced per capita costs because many of
their expenses are shared"' (quoting Termini v. Califano, 611 F. 2d 367,
370 (CA2 1979))).

ANDERSON v. EDWARDS
Opinion of the Court

B
Respondents also argue that the California Rule violates
the "availability" principle, which is implemented, in one
form or another, by all three federal regulations. Section
233.90(a)(1) provides that "the inclusion in the family, or the
presence in the home, of a 'substitute parent' or 'man-in-thehouse' or any individual other than [the child's parent] is not
an acceptable basis for ... assuming the availability of income" to a needy child. Likewise, §233.20(a)(2)(viii) provides that States may "not assume any contribution from
[a nonlegally responsible] individual for the support of the
assistance unit." Finally, §233.20(a)(3)(ii)(D) provides generally that States shall, "in determining need and the amount
of the assistance payment," count only "[i]ncome . . . and
resources available for current use"; the regulation adds that
"income and resources are considered available both when
actually available and when [legally available]."
According to respondents, the California Rule assumes
that income from relatives is contributed' to, or otherwise
available to, a needy child without a determination that it is
actually available. If Mrs. Edwards' granddaughter were to
begin receiving $75 per month in outside income, for example, the AU of which she is a part would receive $75 less in
monthly AFDC benefits, and the two grandnieces would each
accordingly receive $25 less in per capita monthly benefits.
Thus, the California Rule assertedly "assumes," in violation
of all three federal regulations, that the granddaughter will
contribute $25 per month of her outside income to each
grandniece and also that such income will therefore be available to each grandniece-without a case-specific determination that such contribution will in fact occur.
Respondents' argument fails for at least two reasons.
First, its premise is questionable. Although in this example,
the grandnieces each will nominally receive $25 less in per
capita monthly benefits, they will actually receive less in
benefits only if one assumes that Mrs. Edwards will expend

Cite as: 514 U. S. 143 (1995)

Opinion of the Court

an equal amount of AFDC assistance on each of the three
children-without regard to any other relevant circumstances, such as whether one of them receives outside income. Not only would such assumption fail to reflect reality,
see, e. g., Gilliard, 483 U. S., at 600, n. 14, it would also be
inconsistent with the duty imposed on caretakers by federal
law to spend AFDC payments "in the best interests of the
child[ren]" for whom they care, 42 U. S. C. §605, a duty specifically implemented by California law, see, e. g., Cal. Welf. &
Inst. Code Ann. §§ 11005.5, 11480 (West 1991). Thus, California may rationally assume that a caretaker will observe
her duties to all the members of the AU and will take into
account the receipt of any outside income by one child when
expending funds on behalf of the AU.
Second, respondents' argument misperceives the operation
of the California Rule. In the foregoing example, California
would simply add the monthly income of all members of the
AU-$75 (granddaughter) plus $0 (first grandniece) plus $0
(second grandniece) for a total of $75-and reduce the
monthly assistance payment to the Edwards family AU accordingly. It should be clear from this example that the
monthly payment to the AU is reduced not because the California Rule "assumes" that any income is available to the
grandnieces, but because it places the two grandnieces into
the same AU as the granddaughter (whose income is actually
available to herself). What respondents are really attacking is the rule that the income of all members of the AU is
combined in order to determine the amount of the assistance
payment to the AU. This attack ignores the very definition
of an AU: the group of individuals whose income and resources are considered "as a unit" for purposes of determining the amount of the assistance payment. 45 CFR
§206.10(b)(5) (1993). Accord, Brief for Respondents 4 ("All
of the income and resources of everyone in the assistance
unit are taken into consideration in establishing the benefit
payment").

ANDERSON v. EDWARDS

Opinion of the Court

Perhaps respondents are arguing that the regulations simply forbid California to combine the incomes of all needy children in a household-whether by grouping them into the
same AU or otherwise. But whatever are the limits that
federal law imposes on States' authority in this regard, the
combination of incomes effected by the California Rule is
authorized by the AFDC statute itself, which provides that
a state agency "shall, in determining need, take into consideration any.., income and resources of any child or relative claiming [AFDC assistance]." 42 U. S. C. §602(a)(7)(A)
(1988 ed. and Supp. V). In light of the "great latitude,"
Dandridge, 397 U. S., at 478, and the "broad discretion,"
Shea, 416 U. S., at 253, that States have in administering
their AFDC programs, this statute is reasonably construed
to allow States, in determining a child's need (and therefore
how much assistance she will receive), to take into consideration the income and resources of all cohabiting children and
relatives also claiming AFDC assistance.
The availability regulations are addressed to an entirely
different problem, namely, the counting of income and resources controlled by persons outside the AU for the purpose
of determining the amount of assistance to be provided to
the AU. The regulations were adopted to implement our
decisions in three AFDC cases. See 42 Fed. Reg. 6583-6584
(1977) (citing King v. Smith, 392 U. S. 309 (1968); Lewis v.
Martin, 397 U. S. 552 (1970); Van Lare v. Hurley, 421 U. S.
338 (1975)). In all three cases, the State had counted as
available to the AU income that was not actually or legally
available because it was controlled by a person who was not
a member of the AU and who was not applying for AFDC
assistance. See King, supra, at 311 (a "'substitute father,"'
defined as any able-bodied man who cohabited with the
mother of the needy children in or outside her home); Lewis,
supra, at 554 ("an adult male person assuming the role of
spouse to the mother," such as a common-law husband, or a

Cite as: 614 U. S. 143 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

nonadopting stepfather not legally obligated to support the
children); Van Lare, supra, at 339, 340 (a "nonpaying
lodge[r]," who was "a person not a recipient of AFDC"). Accord, Bray v. Dowling, 25 F. 3d 135, 144 (CA2 1994) (the
federal availability regulations "were established to address
specific concerns regarding the imputation of income from
non-AFDC sources"), cert. pending, No. 94-5845.
The California Rule has no such effect. The combined income of the three-person AU comprising the granddaughter
and two grandnieces of Mrs. Edwards is not calculated with
reference to the income either of Mrs. Edwards herself or of
anyone else inside or outside the Edwards household who is
not a member of the AU and who is not applying for AFDC
assistance. In sum, the California Rule does not violate any
of the three federal regulations on which the Court of Appeals relied.6
6We are aware that in certain situations in which a member of a consolidated AU begins to receive outside income (such as monthly child support
payments, an inheritance, or even lottery winnings), the household would
receive a larger AFDC monthly payment if the recipient (along with all
members of her nuclear family, as required by the federal family filing
unit rule) terminated her participation in the AFDC program. See, e. g.,
Gilliard,483 U. S., at 591 (citing example from prior to federal rule's adoption). Were California law to forbid a person to "opt out" of the AFDC
program in these situations, it might be said that the State had reduced
AFDC assistance to the AU's remaining members based solely on the
presence or the income of a person who is not applying for such assistance.
We find it unnecessary to determine whether California law ever forbids
a person who begins receiving outside income to opt out of the AFDC
program. Certainly, nothing in the California Rule itself speaks to this
issue. Furthermore, because respondents challenged the California Rule
on its face by seeking to enjoin its enforcement altogether, see First
Amended Complaint in No. CV-S 91 1473 (ED Cal.), pp. 16-17 (Jan. 10,
1992), they could not sustain their burden even if they showed that a possible application of the rule (in concert with another statute or regulation)
violated federal law. See United States v. Salerno, 481 U. S. 739, 745
(1987) (a facial challenge is "the most difficult challenge to mount successfully, since the challenger must establish that no set of circumstances ex-

ANDERSON v. EDWARDS
Opinion of the Court

III
Respondents offer two alternative grounds to support the
judgment below. Neither has merit, and we may dispose of
them quickly.
First, respondents argue that the California Rule is an
invalid expansion of the family filing unit rule, 42 U. S. C.
§602(a)(38). According to respondents, when Congress decreed that all members of a nuclear family must be grouped
together in a single AU, it intended to prevent States from
including any additional persons in that AU (as does the California Rule). We reject the notion that Congress' directive
regarding the composition of assistance units "occupied the
field" and thereby pre-empted States from adopting any
additional rules touching this area. What we said about
"workfare" in New York State Dept. of Social Servs. v. Dublino, 413 U. S. 405, 414 (1973), applies here as well: "If Congress had intended to pre-empt state plans and efforts in
such an important dimension of the AFDC program ... Y
such intentions would in all likelihood have been expressed
in direct and unambiguous language." The language of
§ 602(a)(38) requires States to embrace the family filing unit
rule; it does not further limit States' discretion in a direct or
unambiguous manner.
Second, respondents argue that the California Rule
violates two other federal regulations that require equitable treatment among AFDC recipients. See 45 CFR
§ 233.10(a)(1) (1993) ("[T]he eligibility conditions imposed...
must not result in inequitable treatment of individuals or
groups"); §233.20(a)(1)(i) ("[T]he determination of need and
amount of assistance for all applicants [must] be made on an
objective and equitable basis"). Assuming that these provisions even "creat[e] a 'federal right' that is enforceable under
ists under which the [rule] would be valid"). Though an as-applied challenge that presented the opt-out issue in a concrete factual setting might
require a court to decide it, such a challenge is not now before us.

Cite as: 514 U. S. 143 (1995)
Opinion of the Court

[42 U. S. C.] § 1983," Wilder v. Virginia Hospital Assn., 496
U. S. 498, 509 (1990), we find that the California Rule affirmatively fosters equitable treatment among AFDC. recipients.
For example, prior to September 1991 a caretaker relative
responsible for three brothers having no outside income
would have received AFDC benefits of $694 per month on
their behalf. Yet before the California Rule was applied to
her household, Mrs. Edwards received monthly benefits of
$901 for the three girls for whom she cared. See supra, at
148. The $207 difference is due solely to the fact that in one
household all of the children are siblings, while in the other
they are not. The potential inequities in the absence of the
California Rule are even greater. Six needy siblings living
in the same household in California could have received up
to $1,057 per month in benefits before September 1991. But
prior to the California Rule's adoption, six needy nonsiblings
who lived in the same household could have received as much
as $2,046, or almost double. See n. 1, supra. The California Rule sensibly and equitably eliminates these disparities
by providing that equally sized and equally needy households
will receive equal AFDC assistance. Thus, the rule does
not violate the equitable treatment regulations.7
7In its 1994 Transmittal, see supra, at 149, HHS examined all of the

federal AFDC rules at issue in this case-the three availability regulations, the statutory family filing unit rule, and the equitable treatment
regulations. The agency concluded: "Apart from complying with [the
family filing unit rule and a related rule], States are authorized to set
the State-wide policy, to be applied in all cases, whether and under what
conditions two or more assistance units in the same household are to be
consolidated or retained as separate units." App. to Pet. for Cert. 35.
Because we have independently reached the same conclusion, we have no
occasion to decide whether we must defer to the agency's position. Cf.
Martin v. OccupationalSafety and Health Review Comm'n, 499 U. S.144,
150 (1991) ("It is well established 'that an agency's construction of its own
regulations is entitled to substantial deference"' (quoting Lyng v. Payne,
476 U. S.926, 939 (1986))).

158

ANDERSON v. EDWARDS
Opinion of the Court

For the foregoing reasons, we conclude that the California
Rule does not violate federal law. Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is reversed, and the case is remanded for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.

