SUPREME COURT.
Bulkley v. Naurnkeag Steam Cotton Compvany.

HENitY T. BULKLEY,

CLAIMANT OF THE BARQUE EDWIN, APPELSTEAM COTTON COMPANY.
NAUMKFAG
V.
THE
LANT,

At Mobile, it is necessary for a vessel drawing much water to lie outside of the
bar and have her cargo brought to her by lighters.
The usage is for the lighterman to be engaged and paid by the captain of the
vessel, to give his receipt to the factor for the cotton, and to take a receipt
from the captain when he delivers it on board of the vessel.
Where a lighterman, thus employed, was conveying bales of cotton to a vessel
lying outside of the bar, but before they were put on board, an explosion of
the boiler threw tbhe ,bales into the water, by which the cotton was damaged;
the vessel was held responsible for the loss upon being libelled in a court of
admiralty, the master having included these bales in the bills of lading which
he signed.
The delivery of the cotton to the lighterman was a delivery to the master, and
the transportation by the lighter to the vessel the commencement of the voy.
age, in execution of the contract by which the master bad engaged to carry
the cotton to Boston. When delivered by the shipper and accepted by the
master at the place of shipment, the rights and obligations of both parties became fixed.
The cases in this court and in England examined.

an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States sitting in admiralty for the district of Massachusetts.
THIS WaS

The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.

It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Loring for
the appellant, and Mr. Andros for the appellee.
The principal question involved was thus stated by Mr.
Loring in the opening of his argument:
One of'the questions presented, the only one decided in the
courts below, is whether or not a vessel may be liable, in a suit
in rem, for the loss of or damage done to merchandise never
received on board.
It was held that the mere reception of goods by the master
or owners,for the purpose of being carried ina particular vessel, did create a liability on the part of the vessel for any subse
quent loss or damage, though the goods were never placed on

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

887

Bulkkey v. Naumkeag Steam Cotton Company.

board, and the loss was not caused by the insufficiency of the
vessel, or any fault of its owners, master, or crew.
The clainiant, conceiving that this decision is contrary to
the principles of the maritime law and without precedent, and
that the quegtion is of importance, presents it for the consideration of this tribunal, atid respectfully asks its attention to
the suggestions to be presented in his behalf.
It is impossible for the reporter to do full justice to the arguments of the counsel on both sides, because they included
so many branches of inquiry, with references to authorities.
All that he can do is to give merely the points raised on both
sides.
Mr. Loring's points were the following:
1. The libellants cannot hold either the vessel or the owners
under the bills of lading, because the goods in question were
not on board; and having insisted upon the master's signing
such bills, are prevented thereby from resorting to the original
contract of shipment.
2. The owners of the vessel were not common carriers.
8. The vessel is not liable in rem.
So far it has not been considered whether or not the libellants have a lien or privilege upon the vessel for the loss they
have suffered.
The inquiry has been as to the personal liability of the owners. If the court shall be of opinion that the owners are not
liable on the bill of lading, because the goods were not on
board; or on the original parol contract, because that was
superseded by the written contract in the bill of lading, which
the libellants elected to take; or, if bound by such contract,
that the owners were private and not common carriers, and
there is no proof of want of ordinary care-then it is unnecessary to inquire as to the liability of the vessel, it being well
settled, that except in cases of bottomry and salvage, there can
be no claim against the thing unless there is a personal liability on the part of its owners.
In the case of the Druid, 1 W. Rob., 399, Dr. Lushington
says: "N o suit could ever be maintained against a ship where
the owners were not themselves personally liable, or where the

SUPREME COURT.
Bulkey v. 'aumkeag &e&m Cotton Company.

personal liability had not been given up, as in bottomry bonds."
And the rule as stated by him, to this extent, is expressly recognised and affirmed by this court in the 'case of the Freeman,
18 Howard, 189.
If on any ground the court should be of opinion that the
owners could not be held personally liable for the loss suffered
by the libellants, it necessarily follows that the vessel is not
liable, and that thlis suit cannot be naintained. It is absolutely essential that such personal liability must exist in order
to cr6Qte a chai'ge in rea.
Iflowever, the cotrt should be satisfied that a personal lia_bility-does exist oi the part of the owners, it does not follow
as of course that the vessel is liable.
The libellants must go further, and show that the policy of
the maritime law secures their claim and gives it a preference
over others, by creating a privilege against the vessel. The
common law gives no such preference.
There is not even a presumption that the vessel is liable because the owners are. The liabilities depend upon different
grounds, and are not at all reciprocal. In this court, of late
years, the tendency has been very strong to limit maritime
privileges, and to deny their existence in cases where they had
before been recognised. In the case of the Yankee Blade, 19
Howard, 82, they are said to be stricti juris, and not to be encouraged. In Thomas v. Osborn, 19 Howard, 22, and Reed v.
Pratt, 19 THoward, 359, the liens of material men are confined
to cases of necessity. A recent rule of the court piohibits the
enforcement of domestic liens by the District Courts. The
privilege of the ship-owner upon goods for freight is apt to be
treated as a mere common-law lien, depending upon possession;
and in People's Ferry Co. v. Beers, 20 How., 401,) it is said that
"liens on vessels encumber commerce, and are discouraged."
As in all of these cases there would exist a personal liability
on the part of the owners, it is very plain that- that does not
necessarily establish a privilege against the ship.
Mr. Andros's propositions were the following:
1. That between the libellant and the master of the vessel

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

389

BulMkey v. .aumkeag Steam Cotton .Company.

against which a lien is sought to be enforced in the present case
there was a valid contract of affreightment, which is binding
upon the claimant and owners thereof.,
2. That the owners of said vessel are liable as commoh carriers, and that such liability commenced'immediately the master received the libellant's merchandise for transportation.
3. That the owners being liable in damages for the nondelivery of the libellant's merchaidise, which bad been by his
agents delivered to and received by the master of the said vessel for transportation, the ship in specie is also liable, and that
this liability arises from the contract of affreightment, which
has been executed on the part of the libellant..
4. That the reception and lading of the libellant's merchandise on board of the lighter by the master of the vessel,
for the purpose of transporting it to the same, was a sufficient
performance of the libellaut's part of the contract of aifreightment to enable him to hold the ship in specie as security for
the due performance of the master's part of the agreement.
Mr. Justice 1TELSON1 delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States, sitting in admiralty, for the district of Massachusetts.
The libel in the court below was against the barque Edwin,
to recover damages for the. non-delivery of a portion of a shipment of cotton from the port of Mobile to Boston. The facts
upon which the question in this case depends are found in the
record as agreed upon by the proctors, both in the District
and Circuit Courts, and upon which both courts decreed for
the libellant.
From this agreed state of facts, it appears that the master
of the vessel, which was then lying at the port of Mobile,
agreed to carry for the libellant 707 bales of cotton from that
port to Boston, for certain freight mentioned in the bills of
lading.
The condition of the bhy of Mobile, which is somewhat peculiar, becomes material to a proper understanding of the
question in this case.

SUPREME COURT.
Bulkey v. Naumkeag Steam Cotton Company.

Vessels of a large size, and drawing over a given depth of
water, cannot pass the bar in the bay, which is situate a con.
siderable distance below the city. Their cargo is brought to
them in lighters, from the city over the bar, and then laden on
board the vessels. Vessels which, from their light draft, can
pass the bar in ballast, go up to the city and take on board as
much of their cargoes as is practicable, and, at the same time,
allow them to repass it on their return, and are then towed
below the bar, and the residue of their load is brought down
by lighters and put on board.
In either case, when the vessel is ready to receive cargo be
low the bar, the master gives notice of the fact to the consignor
or broker, through whom the freight is engaged, and provides,
at the expense of the ship, a lighter for the conveyance of the
goods. The lighterman applies to the consignor or broker,
and takes an order for the cargo to be delivered, receives it,
and gives his own receipt for the same. On delivering the
cargo on board the vessel below the bar, lie takes a receipt
from the mate or proper officer in charge.
The usual bills of lading are subsequently signed by the
master and delivered.
In the present case, the barque Edwin received theprincipal
part of her cargo at the city, and was then towed down below
the bar to receive the residue. The master employed the
steamer M. Streck for this purpose, and 100 bales were laden
on board of her at the city to be takeif down to complete her
load, and for which the. master of the lighter gave a receipt;
after she had passed the bar and had arrived at the side of the
barque, but before any part of the 100 bales was taken out,
.her boiler exploded, ii consequence of which the 100 bales
were thrown into the water and the. lighter sunk. Fourteen
of the bales were picket up by the crew .of the vessel, and
brought to Boston with the 607 bales on board. Eighty bales
were also picked up by other persons, wet and damaged, and
were surveyed and sold; four remain in the hands of the ship
broker, at Mobile. for account.of whom it may concern; two
were lost.
The master of the barque signed bills of lading, including

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
BUlkey

39]

v. Naumkeag Steam Cotton Comparnj.

the 100 bales, being advised that he was bdund to do so, and
that if he refused, his vessel would be arrested and detained.
On her arrival at Boston, the master delivered the 607 bales to
the consignees, and tendered the-fourteen, which were refused.
A question has bden made on the argument, whether or not
the libellant could recover upon the undertaking in the bills
of lading, they having been signed under the circumstances
stated, or must resort,to the original contract of afFreightment
between the master and the shipper. The articles in the libel
place the right to damages upon both grounds. The view the
court has taken of the case supersedes the necessity of noticing
this distinction.
The court is of opinion that the vessel was bound for the
safe shipmeut of the whole of the 707 bales of cotton, the
quantity contracted to be carried, from the time of their delivery by the shipper at the city of Mobile, and acceptance by the
master, and that the-delivery of the hundred bales to the lighterman was a delivery to the master, and the transporiation by
.the lighter to the vessel the commencement of the voyage in
execution of the contract, the same, in judgment of law, as if
the hundred bales bad been placed on board of the vessel at
the city, instead of the lighter. The lighter was simply a sub.
stitute for the barque for this portion of the service. The con..
tract of aflreightment of the cotton was a contract for its trans.
portation from the-city of Mobile to Boston, covering a voyage
between these termini, and when delivered by the shipper,
and accepted by the master at the place of shipment, the rights
and obligations of both parties became fixed-the one entitled
' to all the privileges secured to the owner of cargo for its safe
transpQrtation and deli'very; the other, the right to his freight
on the completion of the voyage, as recognised by principles
and usages of the maritime law.
--The true meaningof the contract before us cannot be mistaken, and is in perfect harmony with the acts of the master
in furtherance of its execution.
Both parties understood that the cotton was to be delivered
to the. carrier for shipment at the wharf in the city, and to be
transported thence to the port of discharge. After the deliv-

SUPREME COURT.
Bulkle v. Naumkeag Steam Cotton Company.

ery and acceptance at the place of shipment, the §hipper had
no longer any control over' the property, except as subject to
the stipulated freight.
The contract as thus explained being made by the master
in the course of the usual employment of the vessel, and in
respect to which he is the general agent 6f the owner, it would
seem to follow, upon the settled principles of admiralty law,
which binds the vessel to the cargo, and the cargo to the vessel, for the performance of the undertaking, that the ship in
the present case is liable for the loss of the hundred bales, the
same as any other portion of the cargo.
It is insisted, however; that the vessel is exempt from responsibility upon the ground that the one hundred bales were
never laden on board of her, and we are referred to several
cases in this court and in England in support of the position.
(18 How., 189; 19 Tb., 90; and 2 Eng. L. and Eq. R., 837;
Grant and others v. Norway and others. 18 Eng. C. L. and
Eq., 561; 29 Ib., 323.) But it will be seen, on reference to
these cases, the doctrine was applied, or asserted, upon a state
of facts wholly different from those in the present case. In
the cases where the point was ruled, the goods were not only
not laden on board the vessel, but they never had been delivered to the master. There was no contract of affreightmerrt
binding between the parties, as there had been no fulfilment
on the part of the shipper, namely, the delivery of the cargo.
It was conceded, no suit could have been maintained upon
the original contract, either against the owner or the vessel;
but as the bill of lading had been signed by the master, in
which he admitted that the goods were on board, the question
presented was, whether or not the admission was not conclusive against the owner and the vessel, the .bill of lading having
passed into the hands of a.bonafde holder for value.
The court, on looking into the nature and character of the
authority of the master, and the limitations annexedto it by
the usages and principles of law, and the general practice of
shipmasters, held, that the master not only had no general authority to sign the bill of lading, and admit the goods on board
when contrary to the fact, but that a third party taking the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
BulHey v. Naumkeag Steam Cotton Company.

bill was chargeable with notice of thQ limitation, and took it
subject to any infirmity in the contiact growing out of it.The first time ,the question arose in England, and was determined, was in the case of Grant and others vi Norway and
others, in the Comnon Pleas, (1851,) and was in reference to
the state of facts existing in this and like cases, and in connection with the principles involved in its determination, that
the court say the ixaster had no authority to sign the bill of
lading, unless the goods had been shipped; cases in which
there had been no delivery of the goods to the master, no contract binding upon the owner or the ship, no freight to be carried, and, in truth, where- the whole transaction rested upon
similated bills of lading, signed by t4e master in fraud of his
owners.
In the present case the cargo was delivered in pursuance of
the contract, thae goods in the custody of the master, and subject to his lien for .freight, as effectually as if they had been
upon the deck of the ship, the contract confessedly :binding
both the owner and the shipper; and, unless it be held that-the
latter is entitled to his lien upon the vessel also, he is deprived'
of one of the privileges of the contract, when, at the same
time, the owner is in the full enjoyment of all those belonging
to his side of it.
The argument urged against this lien of the shipper seems to
go th e length of maintaining, that in order to uphold it there
must be a physical connection between the cargo and the vessel, and that the form of expression in the cases referred to is
not to be taken in the connection and with reference to the
facts of the particular case, but in a general sense, and as applicable to every case involving the liability of the ship for thesafe transportatio and delivery of the cargo. But this is obviously too narrow and. limited a view of the liability of the
vessel. There is no-necessary physical connection between
the cargo-and the ship, as a foundation upon which to rest this
liability. The unlading of the vessel at the port of discharge,
upon the wharf, or even the deposit of the goods in the warehouse, does not discharg the lien, unless the delivery is to the
consignee of the cargo-witbin. the m.eaping of the bill of la-

SUPREME COURT.
Ckimen& v. Warner.

ding; and we do not see why the lien may not attach, when
the cargo is delivered to the master for shipment b6fore it
reaches the hold of the vessel, as consistently and with as much
reason as the continuance of it after separation from the vessel, and placed upon the wharf, or within the warehouse. In
both instances the cargo is in the custody of the master, and
in the act of conveyance in the execution of the contract of
affreightment. We must look to the substance and good sense
of the transaction; to the contract, as understood and intended
by the parties, and as explained by its terms, and the attending circumstances out of which it arose, and to the grounds
and reasons of tha rules of law upon the application of which
their duties and obligations are to be ascertained, in order to
determine the scope and extent of them; and, in this view, we
think no well-founded distinction can be made, as to the liability of the owner and vessel, between the case of the delivery
of the goods into the hands of the master at the wharf, for
transportation on board of a particular ship, in pursuance of
the contract of affreightment, and the case as made, after the
lading of the goods upon the deck of the vessel; the one a
constructive, the other an actual possession ; the former, the
same as if the goods had been carried to the vessel by her
boats, instead of the vessel going herself to the wharf.
The decree of the court below affirmed.

JoHN D. CLEMENTS, APPELLANT, V. JONATHAN R. WARNER.
Ia 1850, Congress granted to the State of Illinois every alternate section of land
for six sections in width on each side of a proposed railroad, and until the
StatS could make its selection, the land on either side of the track of the road
was withdrawn from entry or sale.
In 1852, the selections wete made, and the land not selected was offered for
sale, and such as were not sold became subject to private entry.
In October, 1855, Clements began a settlement upon a portion of one of these
sections.
In November, 1855, Warner purchased the same land at private sale at the land
office.
[a November, 1856, Clements claimed a pre-emption right, and the register 5nd
receiver granted a certificate of purchase accordingly.

