SUPREME COURT.
Cleeland Insurance Co. v. Reed ef al.

the company is not permitted to set up the irregularity. The
courts are bound to regard it as a corporation, so far as third
e'ersons are concerned, until it is dissolved by a judicial proceeding on behalf of the government that created it. Angel
and Ames, sec. 774, and cases referred to.
Judgment affirmed.

'THE CLEVELAND INSURANCE COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. GEORGE
REED, JULIET S. REED, JAMES HI. ROGERS, AND THE MILWAUKIE AND Mississippi RAILROAD COMPANY.
Where a mortgagor's interest in land was sold under the bankrupt act of the
United States, the statute of limitations began to run from the time when the
petitioner was declared a bankrupt, and not from the-time when the purchaser
took a deed from the assignee in bankruptcy.
By the revised statutes of Wisconsin in 1839, it is provided in the 37th section,
that where there are concurrent remedies at *law and in equity, the remedy in
equity is barred in the same time that the remedy at law is barred. And in
the 40th section it is provided, that bills for relief in case of the existence of a
trust not cognizable by the courts of common law, and in all other cases not
herein provided for, shall be filed within ten years after the cause thereof shall
accrue, and not after that time.
Therefore, where a bill was filed for a foreclosure or sale of mbrtg'aged property,
aid the defendant had been in possession for more than ten years prior to the
filing of the bill there was no corresponding remedy at law, and the case fell
within the 40th section of the act.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill must therefore be affirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the "District Court of the United

States for the district of Wisconsin.
The bill and answers opened a wide field of discussion relating to events which had transpired many years before, and
the arguments could not be made intelligible without a minute
statement of thoge events. But as the opinion of the court
does not require that this should be done, the reporter omits
a particular narrative of these circumstances.
The case was argued in this court by Mr. 1)ooliltle for the
appellants, and by Mr. Lynde, upon a brief submitted by himself and Mr. Brown, for the appellees.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

285

Cevelantd Insurance Co. v. Reedet al.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill seeks to enforce a lietp secured by mortgage on
twenty acres of land, ifwh'at is denominated Finch's addition
to Milwaukie. The mortgage debt becarne due in February,
1839. It is difficult to say, that were the bill standing on
demurrer, that a sufficient description of the land claimed as
bound for the debt could be established to justif5, an affirmative deoree. But the view We take of the case renders this
question immaterial.
In 1837, George Reed executed the mortgage tQ the Cleveland Insurance Company for $22,000, inbluding the greater
portion of a quarter section of-land, part 6f which was covered
by previous mortgages to others. *These were acquired and
foreclosed, and the title vested in.-James H. Rogers, the purchaser, and only material respondent to this suit. He taok
possession of the quarter section in 1838, claiming it as his
own. under previous mortgages of which he was assignee, and
which he foreclosed, and became, the purchaser of the equity
of redemption, and he also claimed title under five tax sales..
and deeds founded on them.
In his answer, Rogers relies on the act of limitations of"
Wisconsin' passed in 1839, which ptovides that "bills for
relief in case of the existence of'a trust not cognizable by the
courts of common law, and in all other cases not herein provided for, shall be filed within ten years after the cause thereof
shall accrue, and not after that time."
To establish the fact of adverse possession, and to negative
the conclusion that Rogers did not recognize the trust, the
parties agreed "that for the purpose of bringing the aboveentitled suit to a hearing at the present term, it shall and may
be taken as true and proved for all the purposes of this case,
that the defendant, Rogers, has been iin actual and continual
possession and occupancy of the southeast quarter section 37,
township 7, range 22 east, described in the bill of complaint,
in this suit, since some time in the year 1838, and up to this
time; and during all that time has openly controlled the
same, and improved some portion of the premises."
To onerate Rogers with the obligation of a mortgagor and

SUPREME COURT.
Uleveland Insuranie Co. v. Reed el a.

trustee, the complainant introduced R-record from the bankrupt court held in Wisconsin, showing the proceedings
against George Reed as a voluntary bankrupt under the act
of Congress of 1841. The proceeding was admitted on the
hearing to be in all respects regular. On the 23d of July,
1842, Reed was declared to be a bankrupt, and his prbperty
and rights of property were vested in an assignee appointed
by the court. He advertised Reed's interest in the property
in controversy to be sold, and on the 3d day.of May, 1843, it
was sold, and purchased by Rogers, he being the best bidder,
for the sum of six dollars, who took a regular deed for the
same oil the 6th day of July, 1846, in conformity to the 15th
section of the bankrupt law.
The object of introducing this evidence by the complainant
wvas, to avoid the operation of the act of limitations, by showing that, by his purchase, Rogers stood on the same footing
of mortgagor that George Reed had stood before his bankruptcy, and that the assignee's deed to Rogers was not ten
years old when this suit was brought.
The assignee came in as trustee by force of the decree declaring Reed a bankrupt; he held the.land as Reed had done,
and by the deed Rogers assumed the same position, because,
by the proviso to the 2d section of the bankrupt law, the lien
secured by the mortgage was excepted. The main question
as regards the effect of this deed is, to what time does the
title acquired by Rogers relate. It vested in him by its terms
such title as the bankrupt had at the time of his bankruptcy,
which was the date of the decree declaring him a bankrupt.
To this effect is the 15th section of the act.
This suit was brought in 1856, and the order declaring Reed
a bankrupt was made in 1842, so that Rogers held the relation
of mortgagor to the complainant more than ten years before
this suit was brought.
But we deem this proceeding in bankruptcy altogether immaterial. Rogers claimed to own the quarter section in fee,
and held it in actual adverse possession in 1839, when the ten
years' act of limitations was passed. The act then began to
run, and ran on so as to complete the bar in 1849.

DECEM1BER TERM, 1860.

287

Bisse etal. v.CiCy of J'eronviZle.

We do not doubt that the act applies to this suit. The bill
prays that the equity of redemption be foreclosed, or that the
undivided interest, to the extent of twenty acres in the quarter
section alleged to be covered bythe mortgage, be sold, and the
proceed appropriated towards paying the debts secured. As
neither of these modes of relief are cognizable at law, and the
only remedy is in equity, it is manifestly barred by the terms
of the act.
By .a previous provision of the act of 1839, (section 37,)
where there are concurrent remedies at law and in equity, the
remedy in equity is barred in the same time that the remedy
at law is barred; and what we mean to say is, that the remedies demanded to -be enforcedby the bill have no corresponding remedy at law, and therefore fall-within the 40th section
of the act.
As respects the other' defendants to the bill, no relief can
be had against them. By his purchase of the bankrupt's title,
Rogers took the equity of redemption, and cut off all claims to
the land the defendants had, assuming the statements in the
bill to be true.
We forbear to express any opinion on the defence relied on
by Rogers in his answer, namely, that he had purchased and
had deeds for the said quarter section from several tax collectors, which.he alleges are valid: and if not valid, that they are
confirmed by adverse possession and the operation-of the three
years' act of limitations.
It is ordered that the decree of the Circuit Court dismissing
the bill be affirmed.

GEORGE B. BISSELL, DAVID T. ROBINSON, AND CALVIN DAY,
PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE CITY OF JEFFERSONVILLE.
The common council of tie city of Jeffersonville, in Indiana, had authority t6
subscribe for stock in a railroad company, and to issue bonds-for such sub.
scription, upon the petition of three-fourths of the legal voterg of the city.
The statutes of the State examined by which such authority was conferred.
Under one of these acts, the common council determined that three-fourths had

