DECEMBBER TERM, 1860.
.ons" v. S ozard.

reason why the excepti6n was made, .as respects this class of
vessels.
And then comes the. exception, of vessels that had no connection with commerce on the-oqean, which declares, that the
act shall not apply'to any vessel, of any description whatsoever, used in rivers, or used in inland navigation. Why
should navigation on the Mississippi and the St. Lawrence
be governed by one law, and the great lakes. Green bay,
Lake Champlain, Great Salt lake, Utah lake, and many
others, by *another rule of liability? Congress has made no
such distinction; but on the contrary, every section and clause
of the act of 1851 refer to losses happening on, or to vessels
navigating, the ocean. The third section is especially significant of this conclusion.
What the expression, "inland navigation," means, mustbe
ascertained from the geography of our own country, and the
commerce carried on by vessels on its waters. Lake Erie is
inland, and a voyage from Buffalo to Detroit is, in my judgment, "inland navigation." I am, therefore, 9f the opinion
that the judgment should be reversed.

BRADDOCK JONZES, PLAINTIFF im ERROR, V. JAMES

G. SOULARD.

The eastern line of the city of St Louis, as it was incorporated in 1809, is as
follows: from the Sugar loaf due east to the Mississippi; "from thence, by
the Mississippi, to the place first mentioned."
This last call made the city a riparian proprietor upon the Mississippi, and, ns
such, it was entitled to all accretions as far out as the middle thread of the
stream.
rhis rule, so well established as to fresh-water rivers generally, is not varied by
the circumstance that the Mississippi, at St. Louis, is a great and public watercourse. The rule with respect to tide-water rivers, where the tide ebbs and
flows, does not apply to the present case.
rherefore, Duncan's island, upon which was the land in dispute, and which became connected with the shore as fast land, was included in a grant made by
Congress, in 1812, to the town of St. Louis, for the public schools; and it
neither passed to the State of Missouri by her admission into the Union, in
1820, n6r by the, act of Congress passed in 1851.

SUPREME COURhT.
Tones v.Soulard.

Tnis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
It was an action of ejectment brought by Soulard, a citizen
of Illinois, against Jones, a citizen of Missouri, to recover a
parcel of ground lying in the city of St. Louis, in Missouri,
described as the n6rthern half of United States survey four
hundred and four of the St. Louis series of school lands. In
finding a verdict for the plaintiff, the jury described the property as so much of the northern half of the United States survey 404 of the St. Louis series of school lands as is contained
in the St. Louis city block 873.
In the course of the trial below it Was admitted that the
plaintiff had in him -all the title to the land that was vested in
the schools under the acts and proceedings which will be
presently mentioned; and that the defendant, who was in possession, had in him all the title that was vested in the city of
St. Louis and Robert Duncan, under his pre-emption entry.
As to the description of the property, it was further admitted
that on the 13th of June, 1812, there was a naked sand-bar in
the Mississippi river, near St. Louis, which was, at that time,
surrounded on all sides by fresh water, navigable, in fact, for
the craft usually navigating said river, but many miles above
the influence of the ebb and flow of the tide, and was covered
by ordinary high water when the river was within its banks,
and that it continued to be such a bar, and unfit for cultivation, until after Missouriwas admitted into the Union; that
the premises in dispute were part of an island called Duncan's
island, which was formed from said sand-bar, after Missouri
was admitted into the-Union; and that they lie, and always
did lie, west of the main channel of the Mississippi river, and
within township 45 north, range 7 east of the 5th principal
meridian, and are also Within the assignment to the schools,
and the out-boundary directed to be run by the 1st section of
the act of 13tl June, 1812, provided that that boundary is to
be construed as extending to the middle of the main channel
of the Mississippi river; that said premises are also within
Duncan's pre-eription entry aforesaid; and that the island is
now connected with the Missouri shore by the filling up of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Janes v. Soulard.

intervening channel, brought about by dilkes constructed by
the city of St. Louis since the year 1840.
It was proved that the premises in the possession of said
defendant were worth three thousand dollars.
As the plaintiff below claimed uhder the schools, and 'the
principal question in the case was, whether or not the land
assigned to thQ schools extended into the river so as to make
the middle of the channel the eastern boundary thereof, it is
necessary to.state the title more particularly.
In 1809, the town -ofSt. Louis was incorporated by' an order
of the Court of Common Pleas for the district of Louisiana.
Its eastern boundary was the river Mississippi.
On the 13th of June, 1812, Congress passed an act confirming the titles of the inhabitants of-out lots, village lots, &c.,
which were to be surveyed; and enacting, furtlier, "that all
town or village lots, out lots, or common field lots, included
in such surveys, which are not rightfully owned or claimed by
any private individuals, or held as commons belonging to such
towns or'villages, or that the President of the United States
may not think proper to reserve for military purposes, shall
be and the same are hereby reserved for the -support of schools
in the respective towns or villages aforesaid."
As the property in question was not rightfully owned or
claimed by afiy private individual, or held as commons, or reserved by the President, of course it fell-vithin the reserving
clause, provided the legal boundaries included it.
On the 2.6th May, 1824, an act was passed 4iiecting the
surveyor general to survey, designate, and set apart, thevacant lots for the support of schools mentioned in the act
of 1812. This survey was not executed until 1856, and the
report of the surveyor general stated that the property in
question was within the limits of the town of St. Louis, as it
tood incorporated on the 13th of June, 1812r
In 1831, Congress passed an act on the 27th of January,
relinquishing all their right, title, and interest, in and to the
towii and village lots, out lots, and common field lots, in th
State of Missouri, reserved for the support of schools, to be
sold .and disposed of, or regulated for the above purposes, in

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Soulard.

such manner as may be directed by the Legislature of said
State.
In execution of the above power, the Legislature of Missouri
passed all act on the 13th of February, 1833, creating a school
corporation. By it all free persons residing in St. Louis were
erected into a corporation, who were directed to take possession of all the lots which had been reserved for school purposes, the title to which was vested in the corporation.
It has been before stated that it was admitted, on the trial
below, that all this title was vested in Soulard, the plaintiff in
the ejectment.
The defendant claimed title under thb following heads:
1. An entry made by Robert Duncan, in 1835, including
the premises in controversy, but which had been cancelled by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office, as having been
made in violation of law.
2. Under an act of the Legislature of Missouri, passed in
1851, transferring the title of the State to two islands in the
Mississippi river, in the county of St. Louis-one called and
known as Duncan's island, (on which are the. premises in
controversy,) situated, &c.-tothe city of St. Louis. The defendant below had, in himself, the whoTe of this title.
After the evidence was concluded upon both sides, the
Circuit Court gave to the jury the following instructions, viz:
"The jury is -instructed that if the land in controversy be
within the Congressional township 45 north, of range 7 east,
west of the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi
river,.and bounded on the west by the United States survey
number 1,333, then it is within the out-boundary directed, by
the 1st section of the act of 13th June, 1812, to be run for St.
Louis; and the assignment of the schools read in evidence,
the deed of the schools to II. G., B. A., and J. G. Soulard,
and the lease of the said II. G. and B]. A. Soulard, taken in
connection with the acts of Congress of June 13, 1812, the
act of 26th May, 1824, and the act of 27th January, 1831, and
the act of the 13th February, 1833, of the Legislature of Missouri, vest in the plaintiff the legal title to the northern half
of the survey 404; and, if the defendants were in possession

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Jons v. Soidard.

of said premises at the commencement of 'this suit, the jury
must find for the plaintif."
To the giving of which the defendant objected; but the
court overruled the objection, and gave thd instruction, to
which opinion the defendant then and there excepted. And
thereupon the defendant moved the court for the following
instructions, 6iz:
"If, as early as the 13th of June, 1812, the land sued for was
at low water only a naked bar in the Mississippi river, near
St. Louis, surrounded on all sides by navigable water, and
covered at ordinary high water, when the river was within its
banks, and continued to be such a bar, unfit for cultivation,
at the time Missouri became a sovereign State, then the plaintiff cannot recover upon the title he has shown in evidence."
Which the court refused to give, and to which opinion of
the court the defendant then and there excepted.
Upon these two exceptions the case came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Gareschg for the plaintiff in error, with
whom was Mr. Montgompery Blair, and by Mr. Garett for the
defendant in error, upon printed arguments. .
The counsel for the plaintiff in error laid down the following propositions, viz:
1. That the town of St. Louis, as the same stood incorpoated on the 13th June, 1812, did not extend to the middle
of the main channel of the Mississippi river, as its eastern
boundary, but only to high-water mark on its right bank._
2. Even if it did so extend, yet, at most, the land in controversy was but reserved for the support of schools, not
actually granted for that purpose, and upon the admission of
the State of Missouri, in 1820, it became the property of the
State.
3. That the first direct grant of this land by the State was
made by the act of 3d March, 1851, under which plaintiff in
error claims.
The general proposition first laid down depends on the
correctness of the following argument, viz: The limit of

46

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. ,Soulard.

private ownership on water-courses, when these are navigable
in law, or arms of the sea, is high-water mark; and such
rivers as the Ohio and Mississippi are of the same nature and
dignity at law, above tide-water, as ordinary rivers below the
flow of the tide.
It will not be denied- that when laid is bounded by a tidewater river, the limit of private property is the mark to which
high tide ascends. This is the point to which the sea flows,
and, whether on the seashore or -in the arms of the sea, it
divides the King's or the State's domain from that of the
individual.
The second branch of this first general proposition is more
debatable. The plaintiff in error will argue it as follows:
Arms of the sea or rivers, as far as the tide ebbs and flows,
are navigable waters in England; and no waters are navigable in that country except tide-waters. Above the ebb and
flow of the tide, no river of England is navigable at all. In
inquiring into the definition of navigable streams in that
country, therefore, it was found that they were correctly described to be those in which the tide .ebbed and flowed. But
navigability is the principal thing; the flowing of the tide is
a mere incident. When, therefore, we find that there are
navigable waters in America, or elsewhere, not flowed by the
tide, we seek other definitions of navigable water, the flowing
of the tide being no longer a test. Whatever be the new
definition, we attach to navigable waters here the same consequences, properties, and incidents, that the jurists of England attached to navigable waters in that country. In other
words, we treat our Western inland rivers in the same manner, and claim for them and the land bordering on them the
same legal consequences, that are predicable of arms of the
sea, properly so called, in England.
Upon the soundness of these positions the argument for
plaintiff in error wholly depends.
That no rivers in England are navigable above tide-water is
well settled. It is so declared in 12 How., 454, Genesee Chief
v. Fitzhugh et a]. The words of the court are: "In England,
undoubtedly, the writers upon the subject, and the decisions

DECEM3ER TERM, 1860:
Jones v. Soulard."

in its courts of admiralty, always speak of the jurisdiction as
confined to tide-water; and. this definition, in England, was a
sound and reasonable one, because there was no navigable
stream in the country beyond the ebb and flow of the tide.
*

*

*

In England, therefore, tide-water and navigable

water are synonymous terms."
It is unnecessary to go beyond this. It will be taken for
granted in all the residue of this argument, that this proposition is established beyond challenge.
In the same decision it was declared in the most solemn
and emphatic manner that such a definition was inapplicable
to the rivers and lakes of America, and that these were public
navigable waters. (P. 454.)
This being settled, it is difficult to resist the conclusion that
they have all the properties of public navigable waters, such
as -the sea, and its arms which are flowed by the tide; which
last is declared to be an immaterial circumstance, and by no
means an essential feature of navigability. (Id. ibid.)
If this be conceded, the case of the defendant in error is at
an end, for one of the properties of arms of the sea is not to
be the subject of private ownership below high-water mark.
Arms of the sea do not belong to the owners of the adjacent
soil; and when a man .owns land bounded on a river flowed
by the tide, his land is limited by the mark of high water, and
does not go to the mediurifilurnaqcx..
This view of the subject is supported by the following most
respectable authorities, viz:
Pennsylvania-7 Barr., Naylor v. Ingersoll; 1 Penn. Rep.,
105; 2 Binney, 475, Carson v. Blazer; 14 Serg. and
Rawle, 71-74; 8 Watts, 484; 9 Watts, 228.North Carolina-2 Devereux, 30-36.
Tennessee-6 Humphrey, 358, Elder -v. Burrows.
Iowa-8 Iowa Rep., 1, McManus v. Carmichael; 4 Iowa
Rep., 199, Haight v. City of Keokuk.
Michigan-1 Walker Ch., 155.
Alabama-2 Porter, 436, Bullock v. Wilson.
But the plaintiff in error is free to confess that in some of
the other States of the Union, perhaps in a majority of them, a

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. , ouard.

contrary doctrine has been laid down, and that the decisions
of the State of Missouri, and of the Supreme Court of the
United States, may be cited in opposition to the views which
it is the duty of the plaintiff'in error to enforce.
It is imagined that peculiar stress will be laid upon those
cases to be found ii the Missouri Reports which conflict with
the doctrine contended for by fhe plaintiff in error. But it is
believed that but little weight is due-to these Missouri decisions, for in all of them the matter seems to have passed without serious dispute or discussion. There is no evidence that
the matter was argued at the hearing, and it is almost certain
that the points now made were not presented to the court on
those occasions. If they were, they received no attention.
Under these circumstances, it is submitted that this court
should consider itself free to consider the case as of the first
impression, so far as the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Missouri are concerned.
As to the decision of this court in the case of Howard v.
Ingersoll, 13 How., 416-422, the point covered by this dictum
was not necessarily decided, and so what fell from the court
on that occasion was obiter dictum.
If the decisions of the Supreme Court of Missouri be not
regarded as binding, and those of this court be not considered
applicable to the matter in hand, there can be no occasion to
notice those cases which may be quoted from other States, no
matter what degree of appositeness may be claimed for them.
[The argument of the counsel upon the second point, viz:
that the State of Missouri, upon her admission into the Union
in 1820, became entitled to this nayigable water, under the
decision of this court in the case of Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan,
in 3 Howard, 212, is omitted.]
Mr. Garett, the counsel for the defendant in errol', submitted
the following propositions, viz: "
1.. The .documents read in evidence by the plaintiff below
are conclusive in favor of the plaintiff.against any one not
having a better title under the United States to the premisev
in controversy.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

'49

Jones v. &,ulard.

2. The land within the assignment and survey 404 is, as a
proposition of fact, admitted to be in T. 45, R. 7 E., in Sc.
Louis county, and to be within the reservation for the schools
by the second section of the act of 13th June, 1812; provided,
that the eastern boundary of the town of St. Louis, as then
incorporated, was the middle of the main channel of the Mississippi river. But is the middle of this channel that eastern
boundary, as a proposition of law?
3. If it was within this reservation, the title passed to the
school corporation by the several acts and documents read in
evidence by plaintiff, whether, upon the admission of Missouri
as a State, the proprietary right to the premises in controversy
was continued in the United States, or transferred to the State
of Missouri.
Upon the first proposition, it is not intended to do more
than refe.r to the case of Kissell v. the Schools, 18 Howard's
Rep., 19, where this matter was carefully considered, and where
the very pre-emption of Duncan, which is set up as one of the
defences in this action, was pronounced to be a nullity.
The examination of the second proposition brings up the
inquiry, whether the eastern boundary of the town of St.
Louis, as it stood incorporated At the date of the act of 13ib
June, 1812, was the middle of tie main channel of the Tkfississippi river; and whether the out-boundary, run by the surveyor general in 1840, had for its eastern boundary the middle
of the main channel of the Mississippi river.
The words used in each case are. substantially the same.
But inasmuch as the out-boundary directed to be run by the
first section of the act quoted was to be the "out-boundary
line of-the toWn " and was to be run so as "to include the
out-lots, commuon field lots, and commons," it follows that this
out-boundary line must contain at least all the land embraced
within the town, or the out-lots, or common field lots, or commons
of the town, besides such other pieces or tracts of land as
might be included within this continuous out-boundary,
though not belonging strictly to any of these denominations.
Coming, then, tc the description of the town, as it stood incorporated in 1812, we find that the calls are: "thence due easy
VOL. xxIv.

4

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Soulard.

to the Mississippi;from' thence by the Mississippi to the place first
mentioned."
This is the description of an incorporated town which is
bounded on the east by the Mississippi river. That this de
scription Js, in every legal sense, equivalent to a call for the
middle of the main channel of the stream, is one of those propositions which, to use the language of Juldge Cowen, in his
learned note to Ex parte Jennings, 6 Cowen's Rep., 518-543,
"no lawyer will hazard his reputation by controverting." In
the same note, he remarks that "the only question -which can
generally arise between the citizens and the State as to the
ownership of rivers above the tide is, whether the former
be the owner of the- soil adjacent, within the meaning of
Hale." (P. 543.)
In the case at bar there can be no question of this kind,
for (see 18 How., 19) the schools are the owners of all the
unappropriated land, within a survey of which-whether we
adopt the description of the town of St. Louis, as it stood incorporated in June, 1812, or of the out-boundary of the town,
"run so as to include the out-lots, common lots, and commons "-we find the Mississippi river designated as the casterd boundary. The only inquiry is, does this boundary carry
us to the middle of the stream? In Judge Cowen's opinion,
it requires a hardy man to dispute this, and certainly the
weight~of authority on this subject is overwhelming.
At the trial in the Circuit Court the following points were
made and argued for the defendant in that court, now plaintiff in error, viz:
1. That the town of St. Louis, as the same stood incorporated on the 13th June, 1812, did not extend to the middle of
the main channel of the Mississippi river as its eastern boundary, but only to high-water mark on the right bank of that
stream.
2. Even if it did so extend, yet, at most, the land in controversy was only reserved for the support of schools, not actually
granted for that purpose; and, upon the admission of the State
of Missouri into the Union in 1820, it became the property of
the State.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Joe v. &oulard.

3. That the first direct grant of this land by the State was
made by the act of March -3d, 1851, under which plaintiff in
error claims.
These propositions asserted that, in the United States, a
public river, navigable, in fact, though above the tide, was,
ipso facto, subject to all the legal incidents of what are properly called "arms of the sea," or creeks and rivers flowed by
the tide. This was the main position of the plaintiff in error
(defendant in the court below) in the Circuit Court, and it is
presumed that the same argument will be repeated here.
The defeiidant in error maintains that the doctrine of Sir
Matthew Hale on this, subject has been adopted, in all its.
integrity, by the judicial mind of America. He will first examine those decisions on the subject which have been made
by the courts of the several States, and will then con'sider
whether any modification of the rule thus established has
been made necessary by opinions which have fallen from this
court.
As the land in question lies in Missouri, we naturally look,
in the first instance; to the decisions of that State to ascertain
the rule by which controversies respecting land titles are to
be determined.
The first decision bearing on this point occurs in 4 Mo. R.,
343, O'Fallon v. Price. It was followed by the case of Shelton v. Maupin, 16 Mo., 124. Then came the case of Smith et
al. v. the City of St. Louis, 21 Mo. Rep., 36; and the case of
Smith et al. v. Kelly et al., not yet reported, decided at the
March Term, 1860.
In all these cases, the commou-law rule laid down by Hale,
and referred t9 by Cowen, was quietly adopted by the court,
and, indeed, does not seem to have been gravely questioned
by the bar. The only question supposed to present any difficulty was the point which Judge Cowen states as giving rise
to all the doubt on this subject which a lawyer can entertain,
viz: whether the person claiming to the centre of the stream
was, in truth, a riparian owner. The consequences following
from the ownership of the shore were treated as being so plain
as to require neither illustration nor argument.

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v.Soulard.

When this question has come up, incidentally or directly,
before this court, it has been treated as a settled matter. See
13 Howard's Reports, in the case of Howard v. Ingersoll,
416, (Judge Wayne's opinion,) and 422, (Judge Nelson's
opinion;) see, also, 18 How., 150, Jones et al. v. Johnston.
These are the latest opinions in which a reference to this principle is to be found. It had been repeatedly spoken of in like
manner in earlier cases.
After referring to the decisions of the courts of Missouri
and of the United States, it would seem unnecessary, in respect of the title to land in Missouri, to speak of the decisions
of other States. Nevertheless, a brief citation of cases decided
in the different States, all agreeing with the doctrine of Sir
Matthew Hale, may not be inappropriate. All the cases which
are now quoted come fully up to the ground taken by the defendant in error, viz:
Maine-Brown v. Chadbourne, 31 Maine Rep., 9.
Massachusetts-Storer v. Freeman, 6 Mass., 439; King v.
King, 7 Mass., 496; Lunt v. Holland, 14 Mass., 14';
Hatch v. Dwight, 17 Mass., 289.
New Hampshire-2 New Hampshire Rep., 369, Claremont
* v. Carleton; 11 New Hampshire Rep., 531, Greenleaf V.
Kilton.
Connecticut-2 Conn. Rep., 483, Adams v. Pease; 6 Conu.
'Rep., 471, Warner v. Southworth.
New York-3 Caine's Rep., 307, Palmer v; Mulligan; 17
Johns. Rep., 195, People v. Platt; 20 Johns. Rep., 90;
Hooker v. Cummings; 6 Cowen, 518, Ex parte Jennings; more than a dozen cases were decided afterwards
in New York in which this principle is recognised, but
all refer to this case and to Judge Cowen's valuable
note. See 5 Paige, 137 ; 5 Paige, 547; 5 Wend., 447;
13 Wend., 358; 17 Wend., 571;- 20 Wend., 111; 22
Wend., 425; 26 Wend., 404, &c., &c.
New Jersey-1 Halsted's Rep., 1, Arnold v. Munday; 3
Zabriskie, 624.
Maryland-5 Harr. and J., 195, Brown v. Kennedy.
Virginia-1 Rand. Rep., 417, Hays's Ex. v. Bowman.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

53

jo= v. ,oulard.

North Carolina-Taylor's Rep., 84, (top paging,) 136,
(side paging,) Hammond v. McGlaughlin.
Alabama-8 Porter, 9, Hagan et al. v. Campbell & Cleveland.
Georgia-6 Georgia Rep., 141, Young et al. v. Harrison
et al.; 18 Georgia Rep., 539, Jones v. Water Lot Co.,
Columbus.
Mississippi-3 Smedes and Marshall, 866, Morgan et al. v.
Reading.
Louisiana-6 Martin, 216, Morgan v. Livingston; 18
Louis. R., 122, Municipality No. 2 v. Cotton Press Co.,
Id. 278.
Tennessee-3 Swan, 9, Stuart v. Clark's Lessee, (overruling
'Elder v. Burrows, 6 Humphrey, 358.)
Illinois-3 Scammon, 510, Middleton v. Pritchard.
Michigan-8 Michigan Rep., (unpublishedj Lorman v.
Benson.
Wisconsin-2 Wisconsin Rep., 308, Jones v. Pettibone.
Ohio-3 Ohio Rep., 495, Young v. MeEntyre; 11 Ohio
Rep., 138; 16 Ohio Rep., 540.
At the trial in the Circuit Court, the defendant (now. plaintiff in error) cited, among other authorities to support his
%iews, cases from the Supreme Courts of Tennessee, Alabama,
and Michigan, being 6 Humphreys, 358; 2 Porter, 436; and 1
Walker Ch. Rep., 155, respectively.
The case in 6 Humphreys is overruled by that in 3 Swan,
-9; and though the cases cited- from Alabama and Michigan
cannot be so distinctly said to have been overruled by the
later cases of 8 Porter, 9, and Lorman v. Benson, (which 'will
be found in 8 Michigan Rep. when published,) it is only because the previous decisions of those States were not as supposed by plaintiff in error; no previous decision needed to be
overruled in those States. The cases cited from. those States
by defendant in error are unambiguous, and directly in his
favor. He has been careful not to cite from any State any
case which was not in point. All those which he has. collated
are precise, and establish, without any variation, that the bed
of a frbsh-water stream, or of a river above tide-water, be-

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Soulard.

longs-to the owner of the adjacent soil, and that this holds
good whether the.portion of the bed which is in question be
navigable in fact or not; the only consequence of the stream
admitting of navigation above tide-water being, that the proprietary right of the owner of the adjacent soil is subject to
the public easement, or servitude, as it is called by Sir Matthew
Hale. It is merely repeating the same idea, in almost the
same words, to say that, when a piece of land is bounded by a
river above tide-water, the middle of the main channel-ilum
agu-is the precise line of the boundary; and, therefore, the
town of St. Louis, as it stood incorporated on the 13th of
June, 1812, was bounded on the east by the middle of the
maini channel of the Mississippi river. It is admitted that if
this were so, then the premises in controversy were within the
town, and within the reservation of the. second section of the
act of Congress of that date.
It is scarcely important to fortify a position so abundantly
strong; but it may not be inappropriate to refer to the fact
that the first charter of St. Louis, passed by the State Legislature directly, without the intervention of a court, expressly
calls for the middle of the main channel of the river as the
eastern boundary of the corporate limits of the city, and this
expression is to be found in all subsequent amendments to the
charter. The words of the first section of the act of December
9, 1822, (which is the first charter granted directly by the
Legislature,) are as follows: "See. 1. That all that district of
country contained within the following limits, to wit: Beginning at a point in the middle of the main channel of the
Mississippi river, due cast of the southern end' of a bridge
across Mill creek at tli6 lower:end of the town of St. Louis;
thence due west to a point at which the western line of Seventh
street, extended southwardly, will intersect the same; thence
northwardly along the western line of Seventh street, and
continuing that course to a point due west of the northern line
of Roy's tower; thence, due east to the middle of the main
channel of the. river Mississippi; thence with the middle of
the main channel of the said river to the beginning, shall be
and is hereby erected into a city, by the name of the city of

DECEM3IBER TERM, 1860.
Jones v. Soulard.

St. Louis." This may be regarded as the more explicit declaiation of the character and position of the eastern boundary,
which the Legislature saw fit to give, instead of using the
expression wHich had previously been used by the Court of
Common Pleas on the same subject, which, to a lawyer, however, would convey precisely the same meaning.
In the Circuit Court, it was gravely stated, as a geographical
truth, that in England no riverwas navigable, in fact, above
tide-water, so as to be capable of being a public stream above
that limit. Hence, (it was argued,) the point to which-the
tide flowed being thd lifhit of navigability, tide-water and navigable water became convertible terms in tliat country, the
one meaning in every-respect the same thing as the other,
and having all the legal incidents of the other. But the illaqd/
navigable waters of the United States being recognised as subjeit
to the admiralty jurisdiction ofit$ courts, (12 How., 450, Fitj,
having been decided (3 How%
hugh v. Genesee et al.,) and it212, Pollard's Lessee v. Hiagan) that the ownership of all lands
covered by tide-water within the limits of any State, and updisposed of by the United States, becomes vested in the State
upon its admission into the Union:; therefore, the bed of
every fresh-water stream which is deep enough at its ordinary
stage to float any of the boats or vessels which are used in
commerce, no matter how far above the influence of the tide,
becomes the property of the State on its admission into the
Union, and the" owner of land adjacent to such stream is
bounded by high-water mark. Such was, in substance, the
argument of the defendant below.
It is submitted, that nothing but a singular confusion of the
senses in which the same word is used, in two distinct propositions, together with a total ignoring of the physical truths
\vhich underlie the whole learning upon this important subject, could have led those who labor under the geographical
mistake above-mentioned into the adoption of the startling
conclusion for which the plaintiff in error contends.
In the first place, it is far from being true that all the rivers
of England are unfit for navigation above tide-water, and are
not public rivers above that point. On the contrary, the

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Soulard.

citations presently to be made from Hale's Treatise, "De Jure
Maris et Brachiorum Ejusdem," show that the distinction between rivers navigable, in fact, above tide-water, and rivers
navigable in the proper, legal sense, as Weing arms of the sea,
was just as familiar to Hale as to the American jurist; and
that it was in full view of the truth that rivers might be and
were used by the public as common highways, above tidewater, that the doctrines "which," as Judge Cowen says in
his note to 6 Cowen's Rep., 543, "at this day, no lawyer will
hazard his reputation by controverting," were laid down in
the first instance by English courts, and have since then been
adopted with so much uniformity by the bench and bar of
&mcrica. In the second place, it is a complete missing not
only of the spirit but of the letter of the two decisions quoted
from 3 How. and 12 How., respectively, to suppose that they
give any countenance to the conclusions announced and contended for by plaintiff in error.
By reference to the decisions of the Supreme Court of the
United States since Pollard v. Hagan, it will be .seen, that
while the doctrine of that case has been repeatedly reaffirmed,
scrupulous care has been used to restate that doctrine as it
was in the first place laid down, and to limit the decision by
the circumstances under which it was made, viz: that land
flowed by the sea at ordinary high tide, if not previously disposed of by the United States, became the property of the
State on its admission to th6 Union. This careful reference
to tide-water, (9 How., 471; 18 How., 71-74,) and the distinution, taken as lately as 13 How., 416, 422, between freshwater streams and the arms of the sea, properly so called, are
abundantly sufficient to show, if illustration were needed, the
accuracy with which the doctrine declared in Pollard's Lessee
v. Hagan was adapted to the particular facts of that case, ai'd
how little it was the purpose of this court to leave any one at
liberty first to misconstrue and then misapply the decision in
that cause. It will presently appear how little assistance,
nay, what absolute refutation of these notions, the decision of
Pollard's Lessee v. Hagan actually furnishes; but it will first
be shown how inattentive the plaintiff in error has been to

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

57

Jones v. Soulard.

the physical reasons underlying this legal question; how care-.
less he has been, in his search after loose and imperfect
analogies, to discriminate as to the essential and Controlling
facts out of which all true analogies spring, and to note the
differences of circumstances which annihilate the "parity of
reason" on which he endeavors to found himself.
The use which plaintiff in error has attempted to make of
some expressions to be found in the opinion of the court in
12 How., 443, and other cases, affords a good illustration of
the soundness and wisdom of the rules laid down respecting
the unauthorized application of words used in one particular
sense, to a purpose, or a subject, or circumstances, entirely
diffbrent. The rule on this point is well settled. It is to
confine a dictum to the particular circumstances of the case in
which it was spoken. "What was said by my brother Ashhurst," (said Lord Kenyon, 5 D. and E., 7,) "in the case of
Barry v. Rush, respecting the admission of assets, must be
laken to refer to the particular case then under discussion,
but ought not to be extended farther."
Lord Elleuborough said, (3 East., 123,) "general language
used by the court in giving their opinions in any case must
always be understood with reference to the subject-matter
then before thein."
Sir James MIansfield (5 Taunt., 162) used language still
stronger; and in 9 Bing., 168; 2 Barn. and Ad., 124; 8 Ball
and B., 286; and in numerous other cases, the same rule of
common sense and of law is inculcated. Reference to Amerlean cases on this subject would extend the quotations beyond
limits, and these are omitted, not because they do not exist,
but because they are needlesm,
What, then, were the circumstances tinder which the remarks, from which plaintiff in error endeavors to deduce his
theory, were used by the court in the case of 12 How., above
referred to? The question under examination was the extent
of the admiralty jurisdiction of the United States judiciary. It
had been repeatedly laid down berore, (see Waring et al. V.
Clark, 12 How., 441, and cases there cited,) that the English
rule, which excluded the jurisdiction of their courts of ad

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Socdard.

miralty in all cases arising ifra fauces teri'e, or within the
body of a country, as. opposed to the high seas, was of no
application in this country. In the case of 12 How., 454, it
was observed that courts of admiralty had been found necessary in all commercial countries, not only for the safety and
convenience of commerce and the speedy decision of controversies, where delay would be ruin, but also to administer
the laws of nations in a season of war; and that it would be
subjecting the States bordering on the great lakes and drained
by the great rivers of the Northwest to great hardship and
inequality, if the commerce on those lakes and rivers were
denied the benefits of the same courts and the same jurisdiction for its protection which were accorded by common consent to similar commerce carried on in the Atlantic States.
"It would be contrary to the first principles on which the
Union was formed to confine these rights to the States bordering on the Atlantic, and to the tide-water rivers connected
with it, and to deny them to the citizens who border on the
lakes and the great navigable streams which flow through the
Western States."
12 How., 454.
The court then proceeds to say, that there is nothing in the
objection; that there is no ebb and flow of the tide in the
lakes and Western rivers; that the ebb and flow of the tide
does not make the waters suitable for admiralty jurisdiction,
nor does the absence of a tide render them unfit. "If it is a
public navigable river on which commerce is carried on between different States or nations, the reason for the jurisdiction is precisely the same."
12 How., 454.
It is clear that the decision was made upon these grounds.
The court recognised, in the amount and importance of the
.marine commerce carried on upon these inland streams, cogent
reasons for asserting admiralty jurisdiction over them. The
equality of the rights and privileges of the several States, which
the Constitution guarantied, required that the immense marine
commerce carried on between the States of the Union upon
tiese, fresh-water streams should have the same protection"

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Jones v. Soulard.

the same assurance of the prompt adjustment of any questions
arising in conducting it, which were enjoyed by a similar commerce on the Atlantic coast. In respect of the obligation of
the General Government to furnish appropriate tribunals for
these purposes, the court held, that there was no escape on the
ground that the water floating the commerce was not salt or
brackish. The commerce was there, in its immense proportions and importance, demanding that protection and those
facilities which the Federal Government, by its very Constitution, had undertaken to furnish; and the court held, that the
obligation to comply with this demand was not to be -evaded
on technical grounds, but to be met with the fullest and most
liberal good faiti.
Above all things, it became the court not
to be misled by any imperfect analogies. It had alieady
decided that the English rule, limiting the jurisdiction of admiralty courts to the "high seas," and forbidding its exercise
even on tide-water, infra fauces tenrce, was wholly inapplicable
in America, where it had, indeed, been disregarded from the
earliest times. In like manner, the court proceeded to declare
the unreasonableness.of the attempt to confine admiralty jurisdiction in this country to tide-water, and, having decided the
cause on other grounds, let fall the remark, that this rule, so
confining them, though unreasonable here, was reasonable
enough in England, because there were "no navigable
streams" above the tide in that country. The court was
seeking to illusti'ate its meaning forcibly, and for this purpose
used language which was very strong, as well as substantially
correct. So small a proportion of water navigable, in fact, is
to be found above the tide in England, that no one is in danger of being misunderstood when he states the rule, without
the qualifications which technical, literal accuracy requires,
and says, generally, that in England rivers are navigable as
far as the tide ebbs and flows, and no further, and that tidewater and navigable water are convertible terms in that country, the exceptions being too trifling to affect the general rule.
But when a remark, made under such circumstances, is seized
upon as if it were framed with all the nicety of a scientific
definition; when we hear an argument which depends for its

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Soulard.

very existence on the fact that this supposed definition
accurately and critically exact, containing na superfluous (,e
equivocal word-an argument, in short, founded on the supposed truth, that tide-water and navigable water are absolutely
the same thing, precisely, in every sense, and to every intent
and purpose, in England; and when we are asked to extend
to water navigable, in fact, in America, the same legal properties which have from time immemorial been accorded to what
are called "arms of the sea" in England, we certainly have a
right to show that there is an essential distinction between the
two things; that this distinction has always been recognised
in England as well as in this country; and that the point
of this distinction is precisely that upon which defendant in
error won this case in the court below, and seeks its affirmance here.
Apart from all judicial decision, and all the authority of the
legal sages who have illustrated this subject by their labors,
there is a wide and obvious physical distinction between the
navigability of ,ihe arms of the sea-those bays, more or less
extensive, putting up from the ocean into the land, which are
flowed by the'tide of that great reservoir-and those channels
of water which lie above that source of supply. So long as
the ocean keeps its bed, and the present frame of nature
exists, there will always be water up to the ocean level in
those channels where the tide ebbs and flows; and upon this
ocean level the quantity of water falling in rain has no influence of which our senses can take cognizance. These channels, then, which, twice in twenty-four hours, are filled by
the flow of the sea, have a constant, unvarying level, and are
constantly and uniformly navigable. They are navigable, in
a legal sense, in the fullest and largest sense of which that
term admits. Their navigability does not depend upon a
season more or less rainy, but only on the continued operation
of laws which human experience has shown to be unvarying
and constant in theih operation. They are as surely navigable
as the sea is navigable. Though not -as deep, their surfacelevel is the same, and therefore they are, without any violence
of expression or distortion of idea, called "arms of the sea."-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

61

Jones v. Soulard.

It is altogether otherwise with all the great rivers of the
earth, for all parts of their course above tide-water. They
depend for all the water that is in them entirely on what
comes to them from the clouds. The Ganges, the Nile, the
Danube, the Amazon, the Rio de la Plata, the Rio del Norte,
the Mississippi, and the St. Lawrence, above tide-water, are
entirely dependent up6n the supply of rain. In some places,
as on the eastern slope of the South American continent,
upwards of three hundred inches in depth of rain fall every
year. There is accordingly on that eastern slope such a sys:
tern of magnificent rivers as can nowhere else be found on the
face of the globe. No rain, or scarcely any, falls on the north
of Africa; and accordingly, except the Nile, whose. source is
beyond the rainless region-this exception, therefore, proves
the rule-we find no rivers there. To come to our own country,
where the annual average depth of water falling in rain i8
nearly forty inches, we find a system of noble streams, not
rivalling, indeed, the marvels of the South American conti.
nent, but in due proportion to the more limited supply of rain
which they receive. The Mississippi has a course, from the
sources of its principal branch in the Black-foot Indian country to its mouth near,St. Louis, of more than 3,000 miles;
and for more than two-thirds of this distance it is navigable
at certain seasons of the year. From the mouth of the Missouri to New Orleans the Mississippi has a distance of 1,200
miles, with an aierage tll of more than three inches per mile,
or upwards of 300 feet for the whole distance. The inclination of the bed of the "issouri is still greater, but these numbers are sufficient for illustration. The average depth of the
stream opposite to St. Louis is less than 30 feet. The supply
of the water which renders this river the vehicle of such
countless benefits to the whole Western and Southern country
is furnished entirely by the clouds. Fortunately, within certain limits, this supply is uniform. But we cannot shut our
eyes to the fact that if those severe droughts, of which we have
sad experience from time to time, and which have at different
epochs embraced every season of the year, and every district
of the region between the sources and the mouth of the river,

SUPREME COURT.
Iona v. Soulard.

should become permanent as to time, and universal as to
space, this great river might cease to be navigable for the
smallest canoe. We are all familiar with the separate plienomena which, if they should concur, would bring about this
deplorable result. A dry spring, a dry summer, a dry fall,
and a dry winter, in different years, we can easily remember.
Should the whole succession of the seasons fail to bring us
rain, no extraordinary sagacity would be required to compute
the period at which the flow of the river would cease.
In considering the question of what rivers being above tidewater are yet navigable, in fact, courts ofjustice have repeatedly
shown an impatience of the suggestion that an insignificant
rivulet, which is yet subject to have its volume so increased
by. freshe-s as to render it capable of floating a ship of the line
fbr a few hours, deserves, for that reason, to be called a navigable stream. This impatience merely marks the revolt of
the judicial sense from the proposition, that any improvement
can be made upon the legal definition which, in one sense,
confines the terna "navigable" to tide-water. For as all rivers
above tide-water depend'for their navigability upon the rain
which is draiied into their beds, the degree to which the effect
of the rain upon the volume of the stream is directly observable really makes no difference in principle. Whether the
rivulet be liable to assume a momentary likeness to a river,
under the influence of heavy and unusual rains, or the river,'
under the niform supply which is vouchsafed to the principal
inland streams of the United States, be kept to a depth affording.almost constant service to the public, in the one case as in
the other the supply is from the rain, 'and the navigableness
of the stream (temporary and transient, or practically permanent) is due to this source alone. It is this accidental navigableness occurring in fresh-water streams which the law refuses
:o recognise in terms, when to do so would raise them to a
level of dignity equal to that of the sea and its arms, and
every man's reflection must confirm the sentence of the law;
the distinction in kind between the grandest examples of such
rivers, as the Amazon, La Plata, Orinoco, and Mississippi,
above tide-water, and the shortest arms of the sea, in respect

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

63

.Tones v. SouZard.

of the certainty and invariableness of their supply of water,
being as substantial as can be imagined.
The same policy which forbids the acquisition of exclusive
individual rights over the shore of the sea, forbids the establishment of such rights over such places as are flowed by its
tide; for in truth, as far as the tide flows in any river bed, that
bed would be filled by the sea if the fresh river water were
entirely to fail. Let us suppose all sources supplying fresh
water throughout the world to fail, the beds of the rivers remaining as now. In this case, twice in twenty-four hours, for
most of these, they would be filled with water from the ocean.
This would be the true limit of the dominion of the sea. No one
would be at any loss then to recognise the extent of "the sea
and its arms." Upon these, then, ihere is to be no encroachment by any private individual. This limit is fixed by nature
and adopted by the law. If by the supply of the necessary
water the river beds above these limits become navigable, they
become subject to the "servitude of public interest." But
while the rights of the public, or the interests of the piblic,
have been' so far consulted in respect of rivers which are thus
navigable, as to secure to the community the free use of such
streams as common highways, yet subject to this easement,
which is, from its nature, merely accidental and temporary,
the bed of the stream, usque ad flum aqucv, belongs to the
owner of the adjacent land. These principles were as clearly
recognised, and these distinctions as clearly taken, in England
as in America. The American cases alrcady cited do not
need to be quoted again; but reference will now be made to
some of the expressions in Sir M1atthew Hale's Treatise, to be
found at large in the volume entitled "llargrave's Law
Tracts," and the first four chapters of which are reproduced
in the notes to 6 Cowen, 540, already cited.
[The citations from the treatise of Sir Matthew Iale, and
the remainder of the argument of the counsel for the defendant in error, are necessarily omitted for want of room.]
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
Soulard sued Jones to recover the northern part of a United

SUPREME COURT.
Jones v. Soulard.

States survey of land laid'off for the St. Louis schools. The
part sued for fronts the Mississippi, and includes a sand-bar,
formerly covered witli water when the channel of the river
was filled to a navigable stage. The land is included in the
survey approved June 15th, .1843, designating the school
lands; and the controversy would be governed beyond dispute
by the principles declared in the case of Kissell v. St. Louis
Public Schools, (18 How.,) had this been fast land in 1812,
when the grant to the schools was made. But it is insisted
that the title to this accretion within the Mississippi river did
not pass by the act of 1812, and remained in the United States
till the State of Missouri became one of the States of the
Union, in 1820, when the title vested in the State as a sovereign right to land lying below ordinary high-water mark.
And furthermore, that if the State did not take by force of
her sovereign right, she acquired a good title to the land
known as Duncan's island by the act of Congress to reclaim
swamp lands. These claims the State conveyed by a statute
to the city of St. Louis, and that corporation conveyed them
to Jones, the plaintiff in error.
Soulard claims under the corporation of the St. Louis
schools. The school survey No. 404 contains 78 96-100th.i
acres, including the land in controversy.
The town of St. Louis was incorporated in 1809 by the
Common Pleas Court of St. Louis county, in conformity to an
act of the Territorial Legislature passed in 1808, and the only
contested question in the. cause is, whether the eastern line
of the corporation extends to the middle thread of the Mississippi river, or is limited to the bank of the channel. The
calls for boundary in the charter are, "beginning at Antoine
Roy's mill on the bank of the Mississippi; thence running
sixty arpens west; thence south on said line of sixty arpens
in the rear, until the same comes to the Barrien Donoyer,
thence due south until it comes to the Sugar-loaf; thence due
cast to the Mississippi; from thence by the Mississippi, to the
place first mentioned."
The expression used in designating boundary on the closing
line in the charter is as apt to confer riparian rights on the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Jones v. SouZard.

proprietor of the tract of seventy-nine acres as the call could
well be, unless the last call had been for the middleof the river.
Many authorities resting on adjudged cases have been adduced to us in the printed argument presented by the counsel
of the defendant in error, to show that from the days of Sir
Matthew Hale to the present time all grants of land bounded
by fresh-water rivers, where the expressions designating the
water-line are general, confer the proprietorship on the grantee
to the middle thread of the stream, andentitle him to the accretions.
We think this as a general rule too well settled, as part of
the American and English law of real property, to be open to
discussion; and the inquiry here is, whether the rule, applies
to so great and public a water-course as the Mississippi is, at
the city of St. Louis? The land grant to which the accretion
attached has nothing peculiar in it to forn-an exemption from
the rule; it is an irregular piece of land, of seventy-nine acres,
found vacant by the surveyor general, and stfrveyed by him
as a school lot, in conformity to the act of 1812.
The doctrine, that on rivers where the tide ebbs and Ilows,
grants of land are bounded by ordinary high-water mark, has
no application in this case; nor does the size of the river alter
the rule. To hold that it did, would be a dangerous tampering with riparian rights, involving litigation concerning the
size of rivers as matter of fact, rather than pi'oceeding on
established principles of law.
1. We are of the opinion that the city charter of St. Louis,
of 1809, extends to the eastern boundary of the State of Missouri, in the middle of the river Mississippi. Dovaston v.
Payne, 2 Smith's Leading Cases, 225.
2. That Duncan's entry set up in defence in the court below is void, as this court held in the case of Kissell v. the St.
Louis Schools, 18 How.
3. That the school corporation held the land in dispute,
with power to sell and convey the same in fee to the defendant in error, Soulard, in execution of their trust. '
It is ordered that the judgment of the Circuit Coirt be
affirmed.
VOL. XXIV.

