SUPREME COURT.
Berlhold et al. v. Goldsmith.

PIERRE-

A.

BERTHOLD, ALFRED

0:

BERNONDY,

AND .MARKLAT

THOMPSON, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. EDWARD GOLDSMITH.
To enlarge his business, Goldsmith, the original plaintiff, authorized a thirc
person to go to St. Louis to negotiate an arrangement with some commissioi.
house there to accept consignments of cigars from him and to sell the same
on his account, agreeing with the person so authorized to give him half the
profits, with a guaranty that his compensation should amount to eighteen
hundred dollars per annum. He made the arrangement vith the defendants,
stipulating as to their commissions and that the cigars should be shipped at
Baltimore, in bond, subject to duties and charges, and notified the plaintiff of
the terms and conditions; whereupon the plaintiff wrote the defendants a letter,
concluding with these words: "All shipped to your house. I will hold you
responsible;" and sent two invoices of cigars, which were duly received. Afterwards, the person who negotiated the arrangement wrote an order to thidefendants to deliver all the cigars, not sold, to another firm, upon receiving
whatever sums they had advanced. That firm paid the advances, received
the cigars and sold them, but no portion of the proceeds ever came to the
hands of the plaintiff. The defence was, that the person who gave the order
was either a partner or an agent of the plaintiff, and in either capacity had a
right to direct a transfer of the cigars, and thus exonerate the defendants from
all liability.
Held:
1. Actual participation in the profits, as principals in general, creates a partnership as between the participant and third persons, whatever may have
-been the real relation of the former to the firm, but the rule has no application
to a case of mere service or special agency, where the employee has no power
in the firm and no such interest in the profits as will enable him to go into a
court of equity to enforce a lien for the same or to compvel an account. Unless
such employe6 is in some way interested in the profits of the business, as principal, he cannot be regarded as falling within the general rule, because, when
not so interested, his condition is not different from that of an ordinary creditor. Cases may arise, on one side and the other of the line, where the difference between them is so slight that it may appear to be unsubstantial; yet
the distinction itself is well founded in reason, and the only difficulty is in the
application of the principle on which it rests. No such difficulty, however,
occurs in this case, for the defbndants were a party to the arrangement and
knew the relation which the person who negotiated it sustained to them and
to the plaintiff, and they also knew that the goods had been sent by the plaintiff and received by them oilthe terms and conditions specified in the plain-tiff's letter. He was not, therefore, a partner in fact, or as between the plaintiff and defendants.
2. He was not an agent of the plaintiff, authorized to withdraw the consignments,
or to exa aerate the defendants from their obligation to account for the sales.

0

I)ECEMi Ell TERM, 1860.

537

Berthold et al. v. Goldsmith.
On the contrary, the arrangement was that the cigars should remain in theiz
custody and control, and that they should stand responsible for the proceeds,
and the case shows that it was never ;hanged. The court below were right
in instructing the jury that there was no evidence to sustain the s6cond ground
of defence.

Tiris case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Sr. Blair for the plaintiffs in err~r, and by
Mr. Carlisle, upon a brief filed by Mr. Badger and himself, for
the defendant.
The reader can see from the head note and opinion-that the
arguments were closely connected with the facts of the case,
without relating to any general principle of law.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the co c.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Missouri. The declaration in this
case was filed on the second .day of September, 1858, by the
present defendant, who was the plaintiff in the court below.
It was 'ai action of assumpsit, and the declaration contained
five counts. Without attempting to give any very precise
analysis of the declaration, it will be sufficient to say, that the
plaintiff alleged. that on the twenty-ninth day of August, 1857,
at the special instance and request of the defendants, he sent
and consigned to them sundry cases and boxes of cigars of
great value, in order that they might'sell and'dispose of the
same for him, on their guaranty of sales, for a certain commissioi or reward, and that the defendants, in consideration
thereof, undertook, and then and there promised to sell and"
dispose of the cigars on his account, and to be answerable to
hini fbr the due payment of the sunfs for which the same
should be sold, and pay over the proceeds to him. And the
complaint is, that they not only neglected and refused to perlbrm their promises in that behalf, but that they disposed of
the consignment to their own use. Defendants'appqared and

SUPREME COURT.
Berlhold et al. v. Goldsmith.

demurred to the declaration, but the court overruled the demurrer, and the parties subsequently went to trial upon the
general issue. Testimony was introduced on both sides, and
after the argdments were closed, the defendants presented to
the court- certain prayers for instruction, which were refused.
And under the instructions given by the court, the jury returned their verdict in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of
three thousand dollars. Exceptions were difly taken by the
defendants, not only to the refusal of the court to instruct the
jury as requested, but also to the instructions given, and the
question to be decided is, whether, upon the facts disclosed in
the record, there was any error in the action of the court. It appears from the evidence that the plaintiff was a merchant, residing at Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, and that the
defendants were commission merchants, doing business at St.
Louis, in the State of Missouri. For the purposes of this investigation, it is conceded that the cigars were sent by the
plaintiff, and that they were duly received by the defendants,
and there is no dispute as to the quantity or their value. Some
of the cigars were forwarded by railroad, but the largest invoice was shipped, in bond, with the understanding ihat the
defendants would make the necessary advances for the duties
and other charges. Accordingly they received the cases and
boxes containing the cigars at the custom-house, and paid the
duties and freight. All of the cigars were sent and received
under the terms and conditions specified in a certain letter
from the plaintiff to the defendants, to which more particular
reference will presently be made. Prior to the date of that
letter, it had been agreed between the plaintiff and one H. F.
Hook, that the latter should go to S+. Louis, and if practicable,
make an arrangement there with some responsible commission
house to accept. consignments of cigars from the plaintiff, and
sell and dispose -of them on his account. It seems that Hook
wanted employment, and the plaintiff wanted to extend his
business. They accordingly agreed to make an effort of that
kind, and if successful, that IIook should have half tthe profits,
with a guaranty from the plaintiff that his compensation should
amount to eighteen hundred dollars. Pursuant to that under,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860:

5.9

Bertilid et al. v. Goldsmith.

standing- Hook went to St. Louis'and made an arrangement
with the defendants, and communicated the terms and conditions of it to the plaintiff. By tie terms of this arrangement tile.
defendants were to sell for a commission of two and a half per
cent., and were to guaranty the sales fto a- like commission.
They were to receive the goods in bond, ht..the custom-house,
make the necessary advances for duties and charges, and accept drafts drawn by the plaintiff against- the consignmelnts.
Having learned the nature of the proffered iernis, the plaititiff,
on the twenty eighth day of August, 1857, wrote to the defendants the letter to which reference has already been mdde.
Referring in express terms to that arrangement, he informed
the defendants by that letter that he had eonsigned to them
a-6 invoice of cigars, and requested them to render to him;.
when the cigars were sold, an account of the sales; and what
is more, he therein stated to the defendants that if they were
willing to make advances on such goods, he Would consign to
them, in a short time, additional invoices to a large amount;
and in conclusion, employed the following language: "All
shipped to your house by me; I will hold you responsible."'
Full proof is exhibited in the record, that all the cigars in
controversy were sent a-nd received under the arrangement reAn-'ed to in that letter, and.the pe'rson who made the arrangenmint with the defendants testified that it was never changed.
le remained in St. Louis to negotiate sales, and he also testi
fled that he .maiiaged the whole business and conducted the
correspondence with the plaintiff. Defendants dissolved their
partnership on the first day of January, 1858, so that it became
desirable for them to get rid of their consignments; and on
the fifteenth day of the same mouth, all of the cigars -not previously sold were turned over to another firm, pursuant to an
order drawn on thei by the person who negotiated the arrangenment. That step was taken without consulting the plaintiff, and without his knowledge, and ten days later the defend.
ants wrote to the plaintiff and declined to render an account
of sales, affirming that they had made none, and assuming, ill
eftct, that the person who negotiated the arra~ngement was
the general agent of the plaintiff with respect to-the cigars;

SUPREME COURT.
Berthold et al. v. Goldsmith.

and they informed the plaintiff in the same letter, that he, the
supposed agent, on withdrawing the consignment, had paid
back to them what money they had advanced on the same.
Much other testimony was introduced on the one side or the
other, but the statement already given exhibits the material facts
necessary to be considered in this stage of the investigation.
Two theories were assumed by the defendants at the trial,
and the prayers for instruction were all based upon the one or
the other of those theories. It was insisted, in the first place,
that the person who negotiated the arrangement and finally
withdrew the consignment was a partner with the plaintiff in
the whole transaction; and if not, then, secondly, that he was
the agent of the plaintiff, and, as such, had authority to withJraw the consignment and acquit the defendants from all further responsibility. But the presiding justices instructed the
jury, in substance and effect, that the defendants were responsible for the cigars consigned under the letter of instructions,
whether sold directly by themselves as factors of the plaintiff,
or by Hook, as authorized to negotiate sales, provided the
cigars were received into their possession: that the defendants
were authorized by the letter to sell the cigars in the usual
course of business, and if they found that Hook was also
authorized 'to negotiate sales, then the sales by him in the
usual way were also valid, and that the defendants, by the letter, were to make the advances, have two and a half per cent.
commissions on sales, and two and a half per cent. on guaranty
of sales, and were to account to the plaintiff. Among other
things, they also instructed the jury, that there was no evidence to show any authority from the plaintiff to turn the
cigars over to an auctioneer to be sold, and that the plaintiff,
therefore, was entitled to recover the net proceeds of the
cigars sold, either by-the defendant r Hook, if the latter was
authorized to negotiate sales, and the market value at St.
Louis of the residue, less the charges paid for freight, storage,
insuranue, drayage, and duties. Both of the defences set up
in the court below are still insisted upon in this court, but we
think neither of them can be sustained, and that the instrue.
tions given to the jury were correct.

DECEMBER TERM. !860.
BerhoUl ef al. v. Goldsmith.

1.Partnerghip is usually defined to be a voluntary contract
between two or .more competent persons, to place their money,
effets, labor, and skill, or some one or all of them, in lawfiul
commerce or business, with the understanding that there shall
be a communion of the profits thereof between them. But
partnership and community of interest, independently considered,-are not always the same thing; for the first, as between
the partners themselves, is founded upon the copartnership
agreement which prescribes the relatioii they bear to each
other, and of itself creates the community of interest; but the
last niay exist, notwitlistanding there has been no agreement
hetween the parties. Part owners of a ship, for example, are
uniformly treated as tenants in common, and not as partners,
although it cannot be denied that there is a community of interest between them in every part of the vessel, and each is
entitled to a share-of her earnings in proportion to his undivided interest, and must also share the loss. Joint owners of
merchandise may consign it for sale abroad to the same consignee; and if each gives separate instructions for his own
share, it is well-settled law that these interests are several,
and that they are not to be treated as partners in the adventure. Numerous illustrations of the principle are to be found
in thd decisions of the courts, of which we will give but one
more at the present time. Where a broker or other agent
purchases goods for several persons, each agreeing to take a
certain portion of the entire parcel, it is clear, if there is no
arrangement that the goods shall be sold on joint account,
that the transaction does not amount to a partnership, although the'e is undeniably a community of interest in the
These examples will be sufficient to
goods so purchased.
show that while every partnership is founded on a community
of interest, itis, nevertheless, incorrect to suppose that every community of interest necessarily constitutes the relation of
partnership within the meaning of the commercial law.
Viienever it appears that there is a community of interest
in the capital stock, and also a community of interest in the
profit and loss, then it is clear that the case is one of actual
partnership between the parties themselves, and of course it is

SUPREME COURT.
Berthold-et al. v. Goldsmith.

so as to third persons. - All of the decided cases, however, agree
that it is seldorp or never essential that both of these ingredients should concur in the case in order to establish that
relation. Cases occur, undoubtedly, where a community of
interest in the property, without any regard to the profits, will
almost. necessarily lead-to the conclusion that the relation
betweer$ the parties was that of partnership; and, under some
circumstanoes, that' conclusion will follow, although the sale
of the property for the joint interiest may not be contemplated
by the parties. On the other hand, it is equally clear that
there may be such a community of interest in the profits
without regard to loss and without any community of interest
whatever in the property as will establish that relation. Participation in the profits, however, will not alone create a partnership between the parties themselves as to the property,
contrary to their intention. But merchants and traders are
often justly held to be partners as to third persons, where they
are not to be deemed such, expressly or impliedly, as between
themselves. Judge- Story distributes the cases in which such
a liability exists as to third persons into five classes, and it is
obvious that the present case does not fall within any principle of that classification. Story on Part., section 542; Greenl.
Ev., section 482: He admits, however, that the pressure of
the general doctrine is most severely felt in that class of cases
where all the parties charged, as partners, are to share the
profits between them. but the losses are to be borne exclusively by one of their-number. Actual participation in the
profits as principal, we think, creates a partnership as between
the parties and third persons, Whatever may be their intentions in that behalf, and notwithstanding the dormant partner
was not expected to participate in the loss beyond the amount
of the profits. Every man who has a share of the profits of a
trade or business ought also to bear his share of the loss, for
the reason, that in taking a part of the profits, he takes a part
of the fund of the trade on which the creditor relies for payment. Grace v. Smith, 2 W. Black., 998; Waugh v. Carver,
2 H. Black., 235. Actual partnership, as between a creditor
and the dormant partner, is considered by the law to subsist

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

543

Berthokd et al. v. Goldsmith.

where there has been a participation in the profits, although
the participant may have expressly stipulated 'With his associates against all the usual incidents to that relation. Pond v.
Pittard, 3 Mee. and Wels., 857. That rule, however, has no
application whatever to a case of service or special agency,
where the employee has no power as a partner in the firm and
no interest in the profits, as property, but is simply employed
as a servant or special agent, and is to receive a given sum out
of the profits, or a proportion of the same, as a compensation
for his services.
Merchants'are obligec&to have clerks, and oftentimes find it
iecessary to employ brokers or special agents to effect sales,
and it is no more detrimental to their creditors that such employees should be paid out of the profits of their trade than
from any other .source of income within their disposal. Unless"
the supposed dormant partner is in some way interested in
the profits of the business, as principal,, it is plain that he cannot bring suit as a partner, and go into equity and compel an
account; nor can it be held that he has any such lien on -the
profits as a court of equity may enforce; and if not, then his
condition is the same as that of an ordinary creditor, and he
must pursue his remedy against his employer. Denny et al.
v. Cabot et a]., 6 Met., 90; Vanderburg v. Hull, 20 Wen., 70.
Repeated decisions have recognised this distinction, and although it may happen, as heretofore, that cases will arise on
the one side or the other of the line, approaching in their facts
so near to each other that the difference between them may
appear to be unsubstantial, yet the distinction itself, we think,
is well founded in reason, and that the only difficulty is in the
application of the principle on -which it rests. Hallet v. Desban, 14 Lou. An., 529.
No such difficulty, however, arises in this case. Defendants
knew the exact relation which Hook sustained to them, and
to the plaintiff, and they had the letter of the plaintiff in their
possession, informing them that he should hold them respon-sible for the cigars. They knew what the arrangement was,
and that the gpods had been sent by the plaintiff and received
by them, on the terms and conditions specified in that letter.

SUPREME COURT.
JVhceler v. Mesbiti et al.

Irrespective of the guaranty, it is difficult to see how Hook
could have any interest in the profits as a partner with the
plaintifi. He had no interest in the property, and by the
arrangement which lie himself negotiated, the cigars were to
renman for sale in the custody and control of the defendants,
as commission merchants, and they stood responsible to the
plaintiff for the proceeds. But he did not rely upon the profits
tbr his compensation, for unless one-half the profits exceeded
eighteen hundred dollars a year, he would neither be benefited
nor injured by the success or failure of the adventure, except
so far as the latter result might have a tendency to induce his
employer to dispense with his services. Little or nothing was
ever realized friom the enterprise, and of course no excess of
profits over the amount of the guaranty was ever earned. It
is quite obvious, therefore, that the theory of the defendants
on this branch of the case cannot be sustaine(.
2. It is insisted by the defendants that Hook was the agent
of the plaintiff, and as such that lie had authority to withdraw
the cigars fiom their custody and control, and turn them over
to the other firm. On that point, the presiding justice instructed the jury that there was no evidence in the case to
support that theory, and, after a careful examination of the
evidence exhibited in the transcript, we entirely concur in that
view ot" the case; and the judgment of the Circuit Court is
therefwe affirmed, with costs.

JOH'N J. WHEELER, PLAINTIFF IN EitROR,
BITT,

JEI'OME

CARDINO, FIEDERICK

M.

r.

ANDREW

J.

XES-

BINKLEY, JAMES D.

TRIMBLLE, WILSON J. MATHIS, AND IOBERT MCNEELY.
When the genera! issue is pleaded t,.,a action on the case tbr a malicious criminal prosecution, the plaintiff must prove, in the first place, the fact of the
prosecution, that the delkdant was himself" the prosecutor, or ii tigated the
proceeding, and that it fiially terminated in favor of the party accused.
He must also prove that the charge against him was unfounded, that it was
made without reasonable or probable cause, and that thie defendant, in making
or instigating it, was actuatpd by malio,

