DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

169

Fitch v. Creighton.

JQHN FITCH, APPELLANT, V. EDWARD CREIGHTON.
icorporated vilThe statutes of Ohio give to the local authorities of cities andm
lages power to make various improvements in streets, e., and to assess the
proportionate expense thereof upon thelots fronting thereon, which is declared
to be a lam upon the property.
The City Council of Toledo directed certain improvemen.fa to b& made, and contracted with two persons (one of whom purchased the right of the. other) to do
the work, and authorized them to collect the amounts due upon the assessments.
The contractor who executed the work, and who was a citizen of another State,
filed a bill upon the equity side of the Circuit Court to enforce this lien.
The court had jurisdiction of the case.
The courts of the United States have jurisdiction at common. law and in chaneery; and wherever such jurisdiction may be appropriately exercised, there
being no objection to the citizenship of the parties, the courts of the United
States have jurisdiction. This is not derived from the power of the State, but
from the laws of the United States.
It was not necessary to make the contractor who had sold out a party, nor was
the bill multifarious because it claimed to enforce the liens upon several lots.

THIs was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern 'district of Ohio.
It was a bill filed on the equity side of the court by Creighton, a citizen.of Iowa, against Fitch, a citizen of Ohio, under
the circumstances stated in the opinion of the court. The
Circuit Court decreed against Fitch, who brought up this appeal.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Cooke for

the appellant, and Mr. Swayne for the appellee.
The principal question in the case was whether the Circuit
Court had jurisdiction of the case, which depended upon the
facts involved in it. A particular statement of these would not
be interesting to the profession generally, and- therefore they,
are omitted. The propositions for which Mr.Cooke contendedin support of the demurrer below, wereI. That the complainant does not showhimself possessed
of any right which he can enforce directly, against this defendant Qr his property; and-

SUPREME COURT.
Fich v. Crezqkton.

ff. That the liability of the defendant is not such an one as
can be enforced against him in a court of equity, without the
aid of the statute, which cannot confer jurisdiction .upoir the
courts of the United States.
Mr. Swayne's points, in opposition to the above, were thus
stated:
I. It seems to be conceded that, when the local statutes of
a State give rights to an individual, the courts of the United
States will enforce those rights in cases where they have juris.
diction of the parties.
1. It is not pretended that the States can direct the remedy
by which rights are to be enforced, which the Federal courts
are bound to pursue.
2. But it is claimed that where the statute of a State
creates -a right which may be enforced by remedies already
existing and resorted to in the latter courts, that these courts
will enforce the right by their own known remedies and
usages, in cases -where they have jurisdiction, although the
local statute may direct a special mode-of proceeding.
The General Smith, 4 Wheaton's Rep., 438.
II. By the statute and.the contract with the city,the complainant acquired, by operation of law, righ6 'which courts
of eqmty, by their long-established rules and usages, will enforce.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of Ohio. The bill was filed by
Edward Creighton, a citizen of the State of Iowa, against John
Fitch, a citizqli of the State of Ohio.
By the act of March 11th, 1853, Swan's Statutes.Ohio, it is
provided, "that the City Council shall have power to lay off,
open,. widen, straighten, extend, and establish, to improve,
keep in order, and repair, and to light streets, alleys, public
grounds, wharves, landing places, and market spaces; to open
and construct, and put in order and repair, sewers and drains;
to enter upon or take for such of the above purposes as may

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

161

Fitch v. Creighton.

require it, land and material; and to assess and collect and
charge on the owners of any lots or lands, through or by which
a street, alley, or public highway shall pass, for the purpose
of defraying the expenses of constructing, improving, and repairing, said street, alley, or public highway, to be in proportion either to the foot front of the lot or land abutting on such
street, alley, or highway, or the value of said lot or land as
assessed for taxation under the general law of the State, as
such municipal corporation may in each case determine."
Each municipal corporation may, either by a general or special law or ordinance, prescribe the mode in which the charge
on the respective owners of lots or lands shall be assessed and
charged to the owner, which shall be enforced by a proceeding at law or in equity, either in the name of the corporatiot.
or of any person to whom it shall be directed to be paid, but
the judgment or decree was required to be entered severally;
and a charge was required to be enforced for the value of the
work or material on such lot or land; and where payment shall
have been neglected or refused when required, the corporation shall be entitled to recover the amount assessed, and five
per cent. from the time of the assessment. Swan's Stat., 963.
On the 7th of April, 1855, the city of Toledo entered into a
contract with Creighton, and one Edward Connelly, who
bound themselves to do certain work on the streets, for the
sums named in the contract; and that so soon as the work
was completed, the street commissioner should give them a
certificate to the effect, and on the presentation of the same to
the council, it would assess the cost and expenses of the improvement on the lots or lands made liable by law to pay
the same, and make out and deliver to the contractors a certified copy of said assessments, and authorize them or assigns
to collect the several amounts due and payable for the work
and improvement.
Creighton purchased from Connelly his interest in the contract, and went 6n and performed the work under it, to the
acceptance of the city. On the 14th July, 1856, the council
made an assessment on the lots abutting on the improvement
in Monroe street, to pay the expenses of that work, tnd di
VOL. XXIV.

11

162.

SUPREME COURT.
Fitch v. Creighton.

rected that the owners of the lots make payment of the assess
ments to Creighton. Among the rest, lot 640, belonging to
John Fitch, was assessed for this work $84.56.
On the 20th May, 1856, the council made an assessment
upon the lots abutting on said improvement in Michigan
street, to pay for the same, and also directed the owners of
these lots to make payments of such assessments to Creighton.
Among the lots so assessed were the following, owned by defendant, numbered 547, 538, 539, 544, 1,461; the assessments
of the respective lots amounted to the sum of $1,791.76; and
subsequently a further assessment was made on the contract
of three lots, numbered 686, 751, and 855, which amounted to
the sum of $266.47. The above sums were ordered to be paid
to. the complainant, with five per centum allowed by law.
To this bill the defendant demurred, which, on argument,
was overruled. And the court ordered the above sums to be
paid in ten days, or in default thereof that the lots be sold, &c.
From this decree an appeal was taken. On the part of the
appellant it is claimed, that upon the facts of the case, the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction; that the equity jurisdiction
of the courts of the United States depends upon the principles
of general equity, and cannot, therefore, be affected by any
local remedy, unless that remedy has been adopted by the
courts of the United States.
By the 34th section of the judiciary act of 1789, it is declared, "that the laws of the several States, except where the
Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States shall
require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in
trials at common law in the courts of the United States, in
cases where they apply." This section does not relate to the
practice 6f our courts, but it constitutes a rule of property on
which the courts are bound to act.
The courts-of the United States have jurisdiction at common
law and in chancery, and wherever such jurisdiction .may be
appropriately exercised, there being no objection to the citizenship of the parties, the courts of the United States have
jurisdiction. This is not derived from the power of the State,
but from the laws of the United States.

IDCEMBER TERM, 1860.
.Fitchv. Creighton.

In Clark v. Smith, 13 Peters, 203, the court say "the State
Legislatures certainly have no authority to prescribe the forms
and modes of proceeding in the courts o the United States;
but having created a right, and at the same time prescribed
the remedy to enforce it, if the remedy prescribed is substantially consistent with the ordinary modes of proceeding on the
chancery side of the Federal courts, no reason exists why it
should not be pursued in the sane form as it is in the State
courts."

In the case above cited, the Legislature of Kentucky authorizeci a person who was in possession of land claimed by him,
and some one else had a claim on the same land; the possessor was authorized to file a bill against the claimant to.litigate
his title and remove the cloud from it.
The statute authorizes a suit at law or in equity, but from
the nature of the case it would seem that chancery was the
appropriate mode.
There was no necessity to make Connelly a party in this
case. Ile made the contract jointly with Creighton. But
before the work was commenced Connelly relinquished his
right to Creighton, who performed the whole work, and to
whom the City Council promised payment. The assessments,
too, were made to Creighton, and he was considered the only
contiactor with the city. No right was held under Connelly.
By the statute the city makes an assessment which is to be
paid by the owner personally, and it is also made a lien on the
property charged.- The charge may be collected and the lien
enforced by a proceeding at law or in equity, either in the
name of-the city or its appointee. The complainant is the
appointee for this purpose, and his right is too clear to admit
of controversy.
This bill is not multifarious; the assessments were assessed
on the lots by the foot front, and all against the same defendant.
Lord Cottenharhi, in Campbell v..Mackay, 7 Simon, 564, and
-ill Mylne v. Craig, 603, says, to lay down any rule, applicable
universally, or to say what constitutes multifariousness, as an
abstract proposition, is, upon th authorities, utterly impossi-

SUPREME COURT.
Phillips v. Page.

ble. Every case must be governed by its circumstances; and
as these are as diversified as the names of the parties, the
court must exercise a sound discretion on the subject. Wiilst
parties should not be subjected to expense and inconvenience
in litigating matters in which they have no interest, multiplicity of suits shotild be avoided by uniting in one bill all who
have an interest in the principal matter in controversy, though
the interests may have arisen under distinct contracts.
We think the statute of the State, and the municipal corporation of Toledo, authorize the assessment of the sums on
the lots in question, and that the judgment in the Circuit
Court must be affirmed.

WLLIAM

H.

PHILLIPS, PLAINTIF IN ERROR, V. GEORGE PAGE.

In a patent taken out by Page for certain improvements in the construction of
the portable circular saw-mill, he claimed the manner of affixing and guiding
the circular saw, by allowing end play to its shaft, in combination with the
means of guiding it (the saw) by friction rollers, embracing it.near its periphery, so as to leave its centre entirely unchecked laterally.
An ifistruction by the court below, that the claim was as stated above, but adding
"in a saw-mill capable of being applied to the sawing of ordinary logs," was
erroneous.
Although the improvements of the patentee may have enabled the machine to
be applied to the purpose of sawing logs, when before it was applied only to
the purpose of sawing light materials, such as shingles, and blinds for windows, yet there is nothing in the patent to distinguish the new parts of the
machine from the old, or to state those parts which lie had invented, so as to
enable the machine to saw logs.
The patent law does not require the defendant to give iiotice of the time whet
any person may have possessed the knowledge or use of the invention in ques
tion, but only of the name of the person and of his place of residence, and the
place where it has been used.
An instruction of the court below, making the time material, was therefore erroneous.

THis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the northern district of INew
York.

