DECEM LBER TERM, 1860.

533

Belwr et al.v. Linn.

WniuiA

H. BELOHER AND CHARLES BELOHER, PLINTIFFS IN
ERROR, V. WILLIAm A. LnN.

The decision in the preceding case, ith respect to the duty upon barrels when
made in the United States, and brought back from Cuba filled with molasses,
again affirmed.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from" the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Missouri.
It was a part of the case between the same parties reported
two cases back, and was argued by the same counsel who
argued that case.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Missouri. The suit in the court below was brought by the present plaintifs. against the defendant
as the surveyor and acting collector of the customs at St. Louis,
to recover the amount of certain duties alleged to have been
illegally exacted of the plaintiff, and paid, by him to the defendant under protest. As allged in te. declaration, the
duties were .assessed on the value of a larg6 number of barrels,
manufactured by the plaintiffs in the United States, exported
empty to Matanzas, in the island of Cuba; and brought back
in 1853, filled with concentrated molasses or sugar. It was
an action of assumpsit, and the declaration .contained the
usual counts for money bad and ieceived, together with a
special count detailing all the circumstances on which the
claim was founded. Defendant appeared, and the parties
went to trial .upon the general issue. At the cluse of the
evidence, five prayers for instructions to the jury were presented by the plaintiffs, but the court refused to give any one
of them; and at the request of- the defendant, instructed the
jury that on the whole evidence in the case the plai.ntiffs
could not recover against the defendant. Whereilpon the.
jury retijrned their verdict iii favor of the d*efendant, and the
plaintiffs excepted, and sued out this wrft-6f error to reverse

SUPREME COURT
Belcher et al. v. Linn.

the judgment reudered oii the verdict. Under the circum
stances of this case, as exhibited in the transcript, it will not be
ii.ecessary to refer with much particularity to the evidence, as
the sole question raised in the record is, whether the duties
imposed upon the barrels by the. appraisers were lawfully
exacted. Satisfactory'proof was introduced by the plaintiffs,
showing that all the barrels were manufactured by the .plaintiffs in the United States, and that they were exported enpfy
to the foreign market, and there filled with concentrated moldsses, of sugar in a green state, which was destined for the
rparket of St. Louis. One of the plaintiffs' witnesses testified
that the barrels, when they were received at the sugar-boiling
factory of the plaintils in Matanzas, were empty, but when
sent from thence to the United States, they were filled with
the different products of that establishment. Such of the
barrels as were designated to receive molasses were filled at
the bung without being unheaded, but it was necessary to
take out one head from those which were to be filled with
concentrated molasses, and all such of course had to be recoopered. And the same witness states, that in some instances it was necessary, after the barrels were placed in the
sugar-boiling factory, to add new hoops, but in all other respects the barrels were filled and sent back in the same condition in which they were received. Unless the barrels were
brought back in the same condition in which they were when
exported, then it is clear that they could not be admitted to
entry free of duty; and so, if the value of the barrel in which
a dutiable article or product is imported is one of the proper
charges which are required by law to be added to the actual
market value or wholesale price of the importation, then it is
equally clear .that the same conclusion must follow. In the
case of James Knight and others v. Augustus Schell, decided
at the present term,.both of those questions were determined
.against the plaintiffs in this suit. That case was determined
upon full consideration, and we are all satisfie4l that the decision of the question was correct, and that the reasons given
fbr the decision are all applicable to this case, and therefore
they need not be repeated. It is impossible to hold that mo-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

535

Becher et al. v. Linn.

lasses barrels, manufactured here and exported .to a foreign.
port, and there filled with molasses, whether it be the ordinary
article or that denominated concentrated, and then reimported:
with their contents to this country, were brought back in the
same condition as when exported, within the true intent- and
meaning of the acts of Congress. Contrary t6 the views of
the plaintiffs, we think the words, "the same conditioni" mean
not only that the identity of the article exported is preserved,
but that its utility for its original purpose is unchanged. On
this point, we adopt the view takenby the defendant, because
it appears to be more consohiant with the language of the provision under consideration, and with the obvious intent of
Congress in passing it. Suppose it be so; then it almost necessarily follows, even within the principle assumed by the
plaintiffs, that barrels filled with molasses and imported here
formed a part of the -charges of importation. They admit that
such is the -general rule, but seek to establish an exception
which would include the present case. Now, unless* the barrels were brought back in the same condition 6s when exported, then the reason on which the supposed exception is
founded fails; and it is difficult to see why the present case
dbes not fall within the admitted general rule. Outside packages belonging to the merchant were required to be estimated
and their value added to the actual cost of importation at a very.
early period; and without referring to the subsequent. acts of
Congress and tile regulations 6f the Department,, which were
cited in the briefs of the counsel, the better opinion is, we'
think, that charges include in general the value of the sack, package, box, crate, barrel, hogshead, bale, cask, all outside
coverings belonging to the merchant, or; so to speak, the in" tegument of the importation, and that the value of-.the same,
to be estimated at the usual cost to the importer, should properly be added to the actual market value or wholesale -price
of the importation, in order to ascertain the true basis on
which to assess the duty. For these reasons we are of the
opinion that the rulings and instruction of the Circuit Court
were corrent, and the judgment is accordingly affirmed, with
costs.

