DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

•195

Nations et al.v. Jolnson et al.

"town way" for boats and vesiels could be laid out on the high
seas, or of imputing to the town officers such an obliquity of
understanding as the assumption of such a power would argue;
on the contrary, the court decided that the public officers had
no such power; but that the city, after it reclaimed the laud
to high-water mark, might continue Summer street as a highway on land, for a nuisance, to which the plaintiff might sustain an action; and this case was remanded in order to give
the plaintiff -an opportunity to have the verdict of the jury on
this subject; and also for any injury he might have sustained
by the drains causing an accumulation of matter at the outer
end of the plaintiff's wharves, The record Shows that the
plaintiff abanaoned any claim for damages for either of these
causes, and he was, of course, left without any case to be submitted to the jury.
Judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.
JAMES NATIONS AND JOSEPH NATIONS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V..

N

oY ANN JoHsoN AND JAMES JomsoN.

In a suit in the District Court of the United States for the western district of
Texas, a transcript of a record of the high court of errors and appeals and the
chancery court for the northern district of the State of Mississippi was properly allowed to be offered as conclusive proof of the value of certain slaves,
and of the amount of their annual hire until given up.
The laws of Mississippi provide, that where a case is carried up to an appellate
court, and the defendant in error is a non-resident, and has no attorney of
record within the State, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper
of the pendency of.said cause, which the appellate court shall then proceed to
hear and determine.
These directions having been complied with, the jurisdiction of -the appellate
court was complete; and the plea, in Texas, of nul tiel record, properly overruled.
The American and English cases upon this point examined.
Tfle decree of the court was also properly allowed to go to the jury as evidence
of the value of the hiie of the slaves after its rendition; evidence having also
been offered at the trial of the value of such hire at that time.
The case having been on the chancery side of the court and transferred thence.
to the law docket, a bill of exceptions does not bring into this court for revision
any errors alleged to have been committed when it was on the chancery side'

SUPREME COURT.
Nations et al.v. Johnson et al.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the District Court of the United States for the western district of
Texas.
All the facts in the case, and also the proceedings of the
court )elow, are set forth in the opinion of this court.
It was argued by Mr. Paschalfor the plaintiffs in error, no
counsel appearing for the defendants.
Mr. Paschal commenced his argument by stating it as a
general principle, that a judgment obtained by publication
and without personal service cannot be the foundation of an
action in another State, nor, indeed, in the State where the
suit is brought; that all suits are either in personam or in rem;
that when in personam, there must be personal service to give
jurisdiction; when in rem, the remedy is exhausted when the
res is disposed of. Amongst other authorities, he cited 3 Howard, 336, and 11 Howard, 437. He then considered the effect
of the statute of Mississippi, which he said did not change the
principle. When the suit was dismissed, it was a final judgment, a discharge of the defendants, who had no longer a day
in court. A writ of error is an original writ.
2 Tidd's Practice, 1134.
Coke Littleton, 298 b.
2 Win. Sand, 5 Ed., 100.
And a writ of error, like a scire facias, is considered a new
action, and, therefore, upon bringing it,.the defendant in the
original action may change his attorney- without obtaining a
judge's order therefor.
2 Tidd's Practice, 1141.
Batchellor v. Ellis, 7 Dunford and East., 337.
Mr. Paschal then proceeded to examine the authorities as
to the nature of a writ of error.
11 Howard, 165, 437.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before the court upon a writ of error to the
District Court of th - United States for the western district of

DEOCEMBER TERM, 1860.

197

Nations et al. v. .7'o7nson et al,

Texas. It was a petitory suit, commenced by the present defendants, and was founded upon a certain final decree rendered
at the April term, 1854, by the district chancery court,-held at
Carrollton, in the State of Mississippi, for the northern district
of that State. Among other things, the petitioners allege that
Nancy A. Johnson, then Nancy A. Alvis, and a minor, by her
next friend, brought a suit by bill of complaint in that court
against the present plaintiffs to recover three slaves belonging
to her, together with hire for the same for a specified time;
that she'subsequently intermarried with James Johnson, who
was admitted with her to prosecute the suit;. that the cause
was afterwards submitted to the court for a final hearing, and
a decree entered dismissing the bill of complaint at the cost
of the petitioners. They also allege that they prosecuted a
writ of error to the high court of errors and appeals in that
State, and that the decree of the district court of chancery was
there reversed, and a decree entered in their favor. That decree, as set forth in the petition, shows that the appellate court
wiis of the opinion that the slaves in controversy were the
property and separate estate of the first-named complainant.
Wherefore it was considered by the court that the decree of
the vice chancellor ought to be reversed, and it was so'ordered,
adjildged, and decreed; and the court proceeding to pronounce
such a decree as the subordinate court should have rendered,
entered a decree that the complainants do have and recover of
the respondents the slaves then in controversy, for the sole
and separate use and right of the first-named complainant,
and requiring the respondents to restore the slaves and deliver
the pcssession of the same to the said complainant, or her authorized agent. It is also recited in the decree that the court
was of the opinion that the complainant was entitled to recover
hire for the slaves from the time they were taken from her
possession by the respondents. To carry out the directions
of the court' it was further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that,
the cause be remanded .to the subordinate court, and that an
account be taken of the hire of the slaves, and for such other
and further proceedings as may be required in the premises
After the mandate went down, the cause was sent to a com.

SUPREME COURI.
Nadions et al. v. Johnson et al.

missioner to carry into effect the directions of the appellate
court. He made a report, showing that on the fourth day of
February, 1"854, the reasonable hire for the slaves amounted
to the sum of twenty-two hundred dollars; and he also reported that the hire of the slaves was reasonably worth two
hundred dollars per annum. That report was confirmed by
the court, and on the fourteenth day of April of the same year
a decree was entered in favor of the complainants, that they
do have ai.L recover of the respondents the said sum of twentytwo hundred dollars with interest; andalso, that they do have
and recover of the respondents at the rate of two hundred dollars per year for the hire of the slaves, from the date of the
report until they shall be surrendered up according to the decree in the cause. As a part of the decree, it was also ordered
and directed that execution, issue, as at law, for the amount
awarded to the complainants, together with the costs of suit.
Plaintiffs also allege in their petition or declaration, that those
decrees or judgments were in full force, and that they have
never in any manner been annulled, reversed, satisfied, or discharged, either in whole or part. Process was duly served
upon the defendants in this case, and on the fifth day of December, 1854, they appeared and made answer to the suit.
From the minutes of the clerk it would seem that the suit was
entered, in the first place, as a suit at law, and it was certainly
so treated by the defendants in their first answer. Those proceedings, however, are of no importance in this investigaion,
because the record states, that on the fourth day of December,
1856, the cause was docketed on the chancery side of the
court; -and on the second day of June, 1857, the defendants
again appeared and filed their answer to the petition, without
objection to the transfer which had been made of the cause.
To that answer the plaintiffs excepted on various grounds, and
after a full hearing the exceptions were sustained, and the
an-wer was strieken out by the order of the court. Both parties agoiai appeared before the court, sitting in chancery, on
the 11th (lay of June, 1857, when, as the record states, "upon
motion, and merits examined by the court, it was ordered that
the cause be transferred to the law docket." No objection was

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

199

Nations et aL v. To1nson et a.

made to that order by either party, and for aught that appears
to the contrary, the transfer was made by consent. Leave was
subsequently"granted to the plaintiffs to amend their petition,
and on the twenty-sixth day of January, 1858, they filed an
amendment to the'same, alleging that they were citizens of
the State of Tennessee, and that the defendants were citizens
of the' State of Texas. They.also alleged, in their amended
petition, that the slaves in controversy were of the value of
three thousand two hundred dollars, and prayed judgment in
their favor for the recovery of the slaves, and in default of 'the
delivery of the possessiou of the same, they also prayed judgment for their value, and "for general relief."
Exceptions were filed by the defendants to the 'amended
petition, but the exceptions were overruled by the court. At
the same time the defendants filed an additional answer to the
petition, denying all the allegations and charges therein contained, and also pleaded the statute of limitations In two forms,
as set forth in the transcript. Afterwards, on the sixth day
of February, 1858, the defendants had leave to plead nul liel
record to the respective decrees set forth in the plaintiffs' petition. On that issue the court found fof the plaintiffs, and
overruled the plea, and the parties went to trial upon the plea
denying all the allegations and charges contained 'in the plaintiffs' petition, and upon the pleas setting up the statute of limitations. To support the issue on their part, the plaintiffs introduced duly certified copies of the two records and decrees
set forth in their petition, and proved by competent witnesses
'the value of the slaves at the time of the trial. By that testimony it appeared that one of the slaves was of the value of
eight hundred dollars, and that the other two were each of the
value of nine hundred dollars. Defendants offered to prove
that they removed from Mississippi on the twentieth day of
January, 1850; that they became citizeus of Texas,'and were
domiciliated there on the twenty-first day of February of that
year, and that they had ever since resided there as citizens of
that.State. That testimony was excluded by the court upon
the objection of the plaintiffs, and the defendants excepted to
the ruling. They offered no other evidence, and under the

200

SUPREME1

COURT.

Nations el al. v. Johnson et al.

instructions of the court the jury returned their verdict for the
plaintiffs. At the trial, the defendants requested the court to
instruct the jury that1. The transcript from the recor4 to the high court.of errors
and appeals, and the chancery court for the northern district
of the State of Mississippi, is not evidence sufficient to entitle
the plaintiffs to recover.
2. That that portion of the decree of the chancery court fixing the hire of the negroes at two hundred dollrs u year, from
and after the date of that decree, is no evidence of the value
of the hire of said negroes; and unless the plaintiffs have introduced some evidence independent of that record, proving
the value of the hire, the jury cannot allow hire from the date
of the judgment rendered by the vice chancellor.
But the court refused so to instruct the jury, and did instruct them that the record was conclusive proof that the title
of the slaves was in the plaintiffs, and of the vhlue of their
hire up to the fourth day of Feb ruary, 1854, as shown by the
record; and the jury were also -instructed to return a verdict
in favor of the plaintiffs for the additional hire, t th rate of
two hundred dollars per annum, from the date of the decree.
Instructions were alsQ given to the jury as to the other matters
of claim set forth in the petition; but inasmuch as they
are not now made the subject of complaint, we shall pass the
exceptions over without remark, except to say that they are
evidently without merit.
On this state of the case three questions are presented for
decision:
1. It is insisted by the plaintiffs in error that the court erred
in charging the jury that the record offered in evidence was
conclusive proof. as to the title of the slaves in controversy,
and of the value of their hire to the date of the decree. That
theory is based upon certain facts which are apparent in the
record of that suit, and the question is raised both by the instructions given to the jury and by the refusal of the court to
charge as requested. It appears from the record of the suit,
that the bill of complaint was filed in the district chancery
court for the northert, district of Mississippi on the twenty-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

201

-Nationset al. v. Jkhnson et al.

sixth day of November, 1846, and that the respondents entered their appearance on the twenty-third day of November,
1847, and mad( answer to the suit. Testimony was taken on
both sides, aid the respondents continued to prosecute their
defence to tne suit Until the eleventh day of April, 1850, when,
upon final hearing, the bill of complaint was dismissed at the
cost of the complainants. Respondents' attorney then withdrew his appearance; but the record states that the complainants, on the same day, prayed an appeal, which was granted,
upon their giving bond for costs in ninety days, "and by consent it is agreed" that the appeal be taken directly to the high
court of errors and appeals. Complainants, however, failed
to prosecute the appeal within the appointed time, and consequentli were obliged to prosecute the appeal by writ of error.
It is not now questioned that a writ of error, under the circumstances of the case, was the proper process, by the law of
ttlat State, for the -removal of the cause into the appellate
court; but it is insisted that the subsequent decrees are void,
becauae the respondents were not legally notified of the pendency of the writ of error. Personal service was not made on
either of the respondents, and they never appeared in the appellate court. On the contrary, it appears that the attofney
of the complainants, on the eighteenth day of January, 1852,
filed an affidavit in the cause, that the defendants in error
were not residents of the State, and that they had no attorney
of record on whom process could be served. Provision, however, is made by the law of that State for service by publication in cases of this description. By the act of the twentyninth of January, 1829, it is provided, that "whenever a cause
shall be removed to the Supreme Court by writ of error, and
the court is satisfied that the defendant in error is a non-resident, and has no attorney of record within this State, it shall
be the duty of said court to cause notice of the pendency of
said cause to be published for three weeks in some public
newspaper, the first of which shall be at least three months
before the sitting of the next term of the court in which the
case is pending, within this State; on proof of which publication, the court shall proceed to hear and determine said cause,

SUPREME COURT.
Nations et al. v. JoTnson et al.

in the same manner as if process had been actually served
upon the said defendant." Ilutchison's Dig., p. 931.
That regulation, b - a subsequent act passed on the second
day of March, 1833, is made applicable to the high court of
errors and appeals, and it was conceded at the argument that
the publication was made under that provision. On the filing
of the affidavit, showing that the defendants in that suit were
non-residents of the State, it was ordered by the court, that
unless they appeared on the third Monday of October, 1853,
"the court will proceed to hear and determine the cause in
the same manner as if process had been actually served; and
it was further ordered that a copy of the order be published
in a certain public newspaper published at the capital of the
Publication was acState, once a week for three weeks."
cordingly made, as appears by the decree in the cause, and on
the twenty-third day of January, 1854, the decree was entered
reversing the decree of the subordinate court; and the question is, whether the notice was sufficient to give the appellate
court jurisdiction of the case and the parties. That the
subordinate court had full jurisdiction is admitted. Both of
the respondents appeared in that suit, and litigated the merits
for the period of three years. From the evidence in the case,
it appears that they got possession of the slaves in Tennessee,
in violation of the rights of the first-named complainant, and
removed them to the State of Mississippi. Suit was brought
against them in a subordinate court of the latter State, and
after three years' litigation, and when they had succeeded
in dismissing the bill of complaint, they removed to Texas,
carrying the slaves with them, although they knew. the
complainants intended to seek a revision of the decree in the
appellate court. All of the equities of the case are therefore
with the present defendants. Where a court has jurisdiction it
has a right to decide every question which occurs in the cause;
ard whether its decision be correct or otherwise, its judgment,
until reversed, as a general rule, is regarded as binding in
every other court. Whenever the parties to a suit, and the
subject-matter in controversy between thbm, are within the
regular jurisdiction of a court of equity, the decree of that

DEOEMBER TERM, 386(

203

Nations et al. v. Tohnson et al.

court is to every intent as binding as would be the judgmeni
of a court of law. Accordingly, it was held by this court, in
Pennington v. Gibson, 16 How., 65, that in all cases where an
action of debt can be maintained upon a judgment at law to
recover a sum of nibney awarded by such judgment, the like
action may be maintained upon a decree in equity, provided
it is for a specific amount, and that the records of the two
courts are of equal dignity and binding obligation. Had the
decree, therefore, been rendered in the subordinate court before the appeal, the right of the plaintiffs below to recover in
this suit would have been beyond question, unless there is
some other error in the record. Courts of general jurisdiction are presumed to act by right, and not by wrong, unless
it clearly appears that they have transcended their powers.
Gregnon's Lessee .v.
Astor, 2 Howard, 319; Voorhees v. the
Bank of U. S., 10 Pet., 449. Notice to the defendant, actual
or constructive, however, is essential to the jurisdiction of all
courts, and it was held by this court., in Webster v. Reid, 11
flow., 460, that when i judgment is brought collaterally before the court as evidence, it may be shown to be void on its
face by want of notice to the person against whom it is entered. Numerous cases, also, are cited by the counsel of the
present plaintiffs, applicable to the judgments or decrees of a
court exercising original jurisdiction, which assert the general
rule that no man shall be condemned in his person or property
without notice, and an opportunity to make his defence.
And some of them go much further, and lay down the rule as
applicable to the inception of the suit, that notice by publication is insufficient to support the judgment in any jurisdiction, except in the courts of the State where it was rendered.
Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et al., 9 How., 350; Oakley v. Aspinwall, 4 Comst., 513. None of these cases, however, precisely
touch the question under consideration. Personal service was
made upon the defendants in this case by due process of law
in the court of original jurisdiction, and the question here is,
whether a party duly served with notice in a subordinate
court, after he has appeared and answered to the suit, and
secured an erroneous judgment in his favor, may voluntarily

SUPREME COUIRT.
Nations et al. v. Johnson et al.

absent himself from the jurisdiction of the app6llate tribunal,
so as to render it impossible to give him personal notice of an
appeal, and still have a right to complain that notice was
served by publication, pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction
from which he has thus voluntarily withdrawn. We think not.
To admit the proposition, would be to deprive the other party
of all means of removing the cause to the appellate tribunal,
and would enable a party, who knew he had wrongfully prevailed in the court below, to secure the fruits of an erroneous
judgment, by defeating the jurisdiction of the appellate court.
Actual notice ought to be given in all cases where it is
practicable, even in appellate tribunals; but whenever personal service has been rendered impossible by the removal of
the appellee or defendant in error from the jurisdiction, service by publication is sufficient to give the appellate tribunal
jurisdiction of the subject and the person, provided it appears
in the record that personal notice was given in the subordinate
court, and that the party there appeared, and litigated the
merits of the controversy. Contrary to the views of the counsel for the presen plaintifs, we think there is some distinction
between the notice required to be given to an appellee or defendant in error and the service of process in. the original
suit. A writ of error is said to be an original writ, because,
at common law, it was issued out of the court of chancery;
but its operation is rather upon the record, than the person.
Under the judiciary act, says Marshall, Oh. J., the effect of a
writ of error is simply to bring the record into court, and
submit the judgment of the inferior tribunal to re-examination. It does not in any manner act upon the parties; it acts
only on the record, by removing the record into the supervising tribunal. Suits cannot, under the judiciary act, be commenced against the United States;, and yet writs of error,
accompanied by citations, have uniformly issued for the removal of judgments recovered in favor of the United States
into this court for re-examination. Such cases are of daily
occurrence, and the judgments are here reversed or affirmed,
as they are with or without error; and it has never been supposed that the writ of error in such cases, though sometimes

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

205

Arations et al. v. Iohnson et al.

involving large amounts, was a suit agilinst the United States.
P.lainly, therefore, there is a distinction between a writ of
error and the original suit. According to the practice in this
court, it is rather a continuation of the o.riginal litigation than
the commencement'of a new action; and such, it is believed,
is the general understanding of the legal profession in the
United States. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Pet., 410; Clark v.
MattliewsonJ2 Pet., 170.
No rule can be a sound one which, by its legitimate operation, will deprive a party of his right to have his case submitted to the appellate court; and where, as in this case, personal,
service was impossible in the appellate court, through the act
of the defendant in 'error, it must be held that publication,
according to the law of the jurisdiction, is constructive notice
to the party, -provided the record shows that prodess was duly
served in the subordinate court, and that the party appeared
and litigated the merits. Constructive notice, says Mr. Justice Baldwin, in Hollingsworth v. Barbour et al.; 4 Pet., 475,
can only exist in the cases coming fairly within the provisions
of the statutes authorizing the courts to make orders for publication, and providing that the publication, when made, shall
authorize the courts to decree. Regina v. Lightfoot, 26 Eng.
L. and Eq., 177.
As stated by this court in Harris v. Hardeman et al., 14
How., 339, a judgment upon a proceeding in personam cean
have no force as to one on whonm there has,been no service of
process, actual or constructive, and who has had no day in
court or notice of any proceeding against him. Judgment in
that case had been rendered without .any sufficient notice,
either actual or constructive, and of course it was held to be
irregular; but the opinion of the court clearly recognises the
principle that constructive notice in certain .cases may be
3ufficient to bind the party. Every person, as this court said
in the case of the Mary, 9 Cra'n., 444, may make himself a
party to an admiralty proceeding, and, appeal from the sentence; but notice of the controversy is necessary, in order to
enable him to become a party. When the proceedings a e
againat the person, notice is served personally, or by publica-

SUPREME COURT.
Nations et al. v. Joltnson et al.

tion; but where they are in rem, notice is served upon the
thig itself. Common justice requires that a party, in cases of
this description, should have some mode of giving notice to
his adversary; and where, as in this case, the record shows
that the defendant appeared in the subordinate court, and
litigated the merits there to final judgment, it cannot be admitted that he can defeat an appeal by removing from the
jurisdiction, so as to render a personal service of the citation
impossible. On that state of facts, service by publication,
according to the law of the jurisdiction and the practice of the
court, we think, is free from objection, and is amply sufficient
to support the judgment of the appellate court. Mandeville et
al. v. Riggs, 2 Pet, p. 489; .Hunt et al. v. Wickliffe, 2 Pet., 214.
2. It is insisted, in the second place, by the counsel of the
plaintiffs, that the court erred in allowing the decree to go to
the jury as evidence of the value of the hire of the slaves subsequently to the fourth day of February, 1854. That theory
overlooks the fact, that testimony had been introduced by the
present defendants showing the value of the slaves at the
time of the trial; and that the decree was to be taken in connection with the parol testimony, showing that the slaves were
still living, and in the possession of the parties originally
charged with their abduction. No evidence had been offered
by the defendants, and, in view of the circumstances, we think
the charge was correct, and that the prayer for instruction was
properly refused.
3. While the cause was pending on the chancery side of the
court, on motion of the plaintiffs, the court struck out the
answer of the defendants, and it is now insisted that the action
of the court in that behalf was erroneous. All we think it
necessary to -say, in reply to this objection, is to remark that
the cause was subsequently transferred to the law docket
without objection, and that a bill of exceptions does not bring
into this court any of the prior proceedings for revision.
Whatever may. be the practice in the State courts, counsel
must bear in mind that there is a broad distinction between a
suit at law and a suit in equity, and must understand that this
court cannot and will not overlook that distincton.

DECEMTBER TERM, 1860.
Sampson et a7. v. Welsh et at.

The judgment of the District Court is affirmed, with costs,

GEORGE R. SAMPSON AND LEWIS

W. TAPPAN, MERCHANTS DO1NG
& TAPPAN,

BUSINESS UNDER THE NAMES AND FIRim OF SAMPSON

CLAIMANTS OF THE SHIP SARAHI HER TACKLE, APPAREL, AND
FURNITURE, APPELLANTS, V. SAMUEL WELSH, JOHN WELSH,
AND WILLIAM WELSH, TRADING AS S. &"W. WELSH.

Upon a libel to recover damages against ship.'wners, a decree passed against
them for over $2,000, with-leave to set off a sum due them for freight, which
would reduce the amount decreed against them to less than-S2,000.. The
party elected to make the set off, saving his right to appeal-to this court.
The reduced decree was the final decree, and the party cannot save a right of
appal-where it is not allowed by act of Congress.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court, of the Uni-P
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, sitting in admiralty.
It was a case of libel under the circumstances which are
stated in the opinion of -the court, and was submitted on
printed arguments by ,Mr. Wharton aid Mr. Kane for the
appellants, and Mr. Fallonand-Xr Serrill for the appellees.
The arguments of the counsel Were directed to the merits.
of the case, which it is not necessary to state iunder theciew
taken of it by the.court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought up by an appeal from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
A libel was filed in the District Court for that district by S.
& W. Welsh, the appellees, against the ship Sarah, (of which
Sampson & Tappan,-the appellants, .are the owners,) to recover
compensation for damages- sustained by a cargo of coffee shipped on board the Sarah, at Rio, and consigned to the libellants; and also to recover compensation fo p.undry disburse-

