'DECEMBER TERM. 1860.
Gue v.. Tide Water Canal Co.

ported on an ordinary working day, may Set off the fact that
the labor of depositing the goods in his warehouse was performed on "a Sabbath day," against all the subsequent obligations which the law would otherwise impose upon him with.
respect to the goods. Such a rule of law, if acknowledged by
courts of justice, and carried into effect, would amount to a
forfeiture of the goods, so far as the shipper is coficerned, as
its practical operation would be to allow the carrier, if-he saw
fit, voluntarily to destroy the goods, or to appropriate them to
his own use.
Upon a careful examination of the numerous auth6rities
bearing upon the question, the better opinion, we thi'-j, is,
that inasmuch as the subsequent custody of the goods was not
unlawful, that the obligations of the defendants, under the dircumstances of this case, were not varied by the fact thaf the*
goods-were deposited in their warehouse by their consent on
"a Sabbath day." Great injustice would result from any different rule, and' although the precise question has -seldom or
never been presented for decision, yet we think the analogies
of the law fully sustain the rule here laid down. For these
reasons we are of the opinion that the instruction given to the
jury was erroneous. The judgment of the Circuit Court is
therefore reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to
issue a new venire.

ROBET GuB, APPELLANT, V. TUE Ti)E WAT~m CANAL ComPANY.
A corporate franchise to take tolls on a canal cannot be seized and sold under a
fieri facias, unless authorized by a statute 6f the State which granted the act
of incorporation.
Neither can the lands or works essential to the enjoyment of the franchise be
separated from it and sold under afi.fa., so as to destroy or impair the value
of the franchise.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, sitting in equity, for the district of Maryland.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
VOL. XXIV.

17

SUPREME COURT.
Gue v. Tide Water Canal Co.

It was argued by Mr. Campbell and Mr. McLaughlin for the
appellant, and Mr. Dobbin for the appellee.
The canal company had made a deed of trust, which was
attacked as fraudulent, and defended by Mr. Dobbin, but the
arguments upon that point will be passed over.
Upon the question of selling the franchise under afierifacias,
the counsel for the appellant said:
The question then is, whether land held in fee by a company
for a canal and its.appurtenances can be seized- and sold, not
by piecemeal, but so that the purchaser will take the land with
the entire improvement as it stands.
In 4 Massachusetts, 596, Tippetts v. Walker, Parsons, Chief
Justice, said it mightrequire consideration whether this franchise could be taken in execution, but he does not decide it.
That was a case of a turnpike road, and it is apprehended that
no estate in the land passed to the Turnpike Company.
In 13 Sergeant and Rawle, 212, an execution was levied on
ten miles of a turnpike, with a toll-house and appurtenances.
It was there decided that the execution could not be sustained,
and among the grounds relied on were the facts that the company had no estate in the land, and that it could not be cut up
into parts. In both these particulars the case at bar is distinguishable.
In 5 Watts and Sergeant, 265, Leedon v. Plymouth Railroad Company, the plaintiff, who was an execution creditor,
had not executed the land, but claimed that his judgment was
a lien upon the tolls, and gave him a priority in payment out.
of the tolls collected by a sequestration. What might have
been the decision if the land had been levied on does not
appear, and the decision goes merely on the ground that the
t ls were not bound by the judgment.
In 9 Watts and Sergeant, 27, Susquehanna Canal Co. v.
Bonham, the execution was levied on a toll-house, and not on
the whole work, and the court followed the decision in 13
Sergeant and Rawle, and an act of Assembly of Pennsylvania,
of 1836, which had been passed subsequently to that decision.
In 9 Georgia, 394, Macon Railroad Co. v. Parker, it was made

DECEMBER, TERM, 1860.
Gue v. Tide Water Canal Co.

the subject of a query, whether a railroad could be-sold under
an execution at law. In that case it had been sold under a
decree in chancery.
in 10 Ohio, 476, Seymour v. Milford and Chilicothe Turnpike Co., the question was, whether the tolls of the road could
be levied on under the Ohio act of 8th February, 1826, wit]Yout notice first given to a receiver,- and the decision- was merely on the construction of a local statute.
In 5 Ben. Monroe, 1, it was decided that in Kentucky. a turnpike road coild not be sold. under a decree in chancery, the
only decree allowable 'in such a case at a creditor's suit being
the application of the tolls.
In Coe v. Hart, before Mr. Justice McLEAN, (6 Am. Law
Reg., 42,*) it was said, on the contrary, in regard to a railroad
company, that while the proper mode of enforcing payment
was by a proceeding in chancery to distribute the earnings
equitably among the creditors, yet in a case where such a
course would not satisfy their demands, the road might be
sold, and the proceeds distributed; and the same doctrine was
laid down by the superior court of Cincinnati, in the case of
Ludlow and Heard, reported in the same volume of the Law
Register, at page 503.
In State v. Rives, :5 Iredell's Law Rep., 297, it is said that
the corporation having an estate in the lands, and not a mere
easement, it seems to follow that such an estate is liable to
execution.
In Arthur v. Comm. and Railroad Bank, 9 Smedes and
Marshal, 394, 434, the court says, whether the road is the
subject of assignment or execution depends on the nature of
the estate which the corporation has in it.
The differing views in these cases make it difficult to say
that there is any settled rule at common law, and .throw us
back on pnnciple; apd so considered, it seems hard to escape
the conclusion that as, after all a corporation is merely placed
on a level with individuals, it cannot hold its property exempt
from the payment of its debts. But of course a purchaser
* This is the case in 23 Howard, 117.

SUPREME COURT.
Gzw v. Tide Water Canal Co.

would take, not the corporate franchise, but the estate of the.
corporation in the land, and would take that estate, of course,
as the corporation held it. Holding it in this case on the condition of allowing the public to use the canal on payment of
certain fixed tolls, the same user on the terms would continue
to exist after the sale as before. (1825, c. 180, sec. 12.)
Perhaps,. however, the true view in which to regard this
case is to look at it as controlled by the law of Maryland, and
the analogies of that law. The element which elsewhere
seems to settle that a public improvement cannot be sold on
execution, is its inalienability. If the Legislature will allow
a voluntary assignment, the presumption of a prohibition
against involuntarily alienation falls to the ground.
The act of Maryland of 1835, ch. 356, sec. 5, authorized the
company to raise money by a loan, and the Court of Appeals
of that State, in 3 Maryland, 311, Susquehanna Bridge and
Banking Co. v. General Insurance Co., decided it to be the
law of Maryland, that the power in a corporation to borrow,
(and the corporation then before the court was a bridge as
well as a banking corporation,) carried with it the power to
mortgage. The deed in this case of December, 1841, was
drawn upon the assumption that the power to mortgage
existed, for it authorizes a mortgage.. (Rec., 10.) But a
power to mortgage necessarily involves a sale as a possible
result; and if, therefore, in the present instance, the General
Assembly of Maryland have authorized the company to part
with its land and canal, it cannot e said that any public
policy forbids a sale on execution.
See, also, 7 How., 278.
21 How., 188, 125.
Mr. Dobbin for the appellee:
3. The property levied upon is not properly the subject of
a levy and sale under aferifacias.
The levy was made on the locks of the canal, its toll-house
or collector's office, and the land surrounding the outlet locks,
all admitted to be essential for the uses and working of the
canal. The agreement which states these facts is ambiguous

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Gue v. Tide Water Canal Co.•

in admitting the construction that the property levied on com.
prises the entire property of the Tide Water Canal Company,
and that a sale of that by the sheriff would transfer to the
purchaser a complete thing, which would enable him to discharge the duty to the public of maintaining it as a highway.
This construction, it is obvious from the context,. is not the
true one. In the paragraph preceding, it is said that the company "owns the line canal and its appurtenances, which extends from Havre de Grace, in Maryland, to the Pennsylvania
line," which is of course inconsistent with the construction
that the locks and toll-house, &c., which do not comprise the
thousadidth part of the line, constitute the:whole property.
Besides, the property levied.upon is stated to be necessary to
the uses and working of the canal; it must therefore be something other than the canal itself, and is obviously intended toapply to that part of the thing levied upon which is not visibly
a part of the canal, that is,.land which the marshal, in his levy,
calls wharf property and building lots, &c., ll of which are
admitted to be necessary for the uses and working of the Tide
Water canal.
The appellee contends that it possesses only an easement,
acquired for the purposes of its incorporation, connected with
the franchise of taking toll from the -public for the use of
that easement, and that the said easement and franchise are
not subject to levy and sale under afierifaua.
Ammant v. New Alexandria and Pittsburg Turnpike
IRoad Co., 13 Serg. and iRawle, 210.
Leedon v. Plymouth R. iR. Co., 5 Watts and Serg., 265.
Susquehanna Canal Co. v. Bonham, 9 Watts and Serg.,
27.
Seymour v. Milford and Chilicothe R. IL Co., 10 Ohio,
476.
Winchester .and Lexington Turn. Co. v. Vimont, 5-B.
Monroe, 1.
Coe v. Hart, 6 Am. Law iReg., 41-2.
Ludlow v. Heard, Tb., 502.
Tippetts v.Martin, 4 Mass., 596.
Macon R. R. Co. v. Parker, 9 Geo., 377.

SUPREME COURT.
Gcue v. Tide Water Canal Co.

That even if a portion of the property levied upon is liable
to sale, the levy having blended it with that which is not liable, is void for the whole.
Ammant v. New Alexandria and Pittsburg Turnpike
Road Co., .13 Serg. and Rawle, 210.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears from the record in this case that a judgment was
obtained by Robert Gue, the appellant, against the Tide Water
Canal Company, in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the district of Maryland, upon which he issued a fleri facias,
and the marshal seized and advertised for sale a house and lot,
sundry canal locks, a wharf, and sundry other lots; all of
which property, it is admitted, belonged to the Canal Company
in fee.
The Canal Company thereupon filed their bill in the Circuit
Court, 'praying an injunction to prohibit the sale of this property under the fieri facias. The injunction was granted, and
afterwards, on finaihearing, made perpetual. And from this
decree the present appeal was taken.
The Tide Water canal is a public improvement situated in
the State of Maryland, and constructed and owned by a joint
stock company chartered by the State of Maryland for that
purpose. The canal extends from Havre de Grace, in Maryland, to the Pennsylvania line; and it is admitted that the
property levied on is necessary for the uses and working of
the canal.
Upon the matters alleged in the bill and answer several
questions of much interest and importance have been raised
by the respective parties, and discussed in the argument here.
But we do not think it necessary to decide them,- nor to refer
to them 'particularly, because, if it should be held that this
property is liable to be sold by a judicial proceeding for the
payment of this debt, yet it would be against equity and unjust to the other creditors of the corporation, and to the corporators who own the stock, to suffer the property levied on
to be sold under thisfi. fa., and consequently the Circuit Court
was right in granting the injunctibn.

DEOEMBER TERM, 1860.
Gue v. Tide Water Canal Co.

The Tide Water canal is a great thoroughfare of trade,
through which a large portion of the products of the vast region of. country bordering on the Susquehanna river usually
passes, in order to reach tide-water and a market. -The whole
value of it to the stockholders consists in a franchise of taking
toll on boats passing through it, according to the rates granted
atid prescribed in the act of Assembly which created the corporation. The property seized by the marshal is of itself ot
scarcely any value, apart from the franchise of taking toll,
with which it connected iii the hands of the company, and if
sold under this fieri facias without the franchise, would bring
scarcely anything; but would yet, as it is essential to the
working of the canal, render the property of the company in
the franchise, now so valuable and productive, utterly valueless.
Now, it is very clear that the franchise or right to take toll
on boats going through the canal would not pass to the puechaser under this execution. The franchise being an incor.
poreal hereditament, cannot, upon the settled principles of the
common law, be seized under aferi facias. If it can be done
in any of the States, it must be under a statutory provision of
the State; and there is no statute of Maryland changing the
common law in this respect. Indeed, the marshal's return
and the agreement of the parties shows it was not seized, and
consequently, if the sale had taken place, the result would
have been to destroy utterly the value of the property owned
by the conipany, while the creditor himself would, most probably, realize scarcely anything from these useless canal locks,
and lots. adjoining them.
The record and proceedings before us show that there were
other creditors of the corporation to a large amount, some of
whom loaned money to carry on the enterprise. And it would
be against the principles of equity to allow a single creditor to
destroy a fund to which other creditors had a right to look for
payment, and equally -against the principles of equity to permit him to destroy the value of the property of the stockholdera, by dissevering from the franchise. property which was
essential to its useful existence.

264

SUPREME COURT.
League v. Egery et al.

In this view of the subject, the courtdo not deem it proper
to express any opinion as to the right of this creditor, in some
other form of judicial proceeding, to compel the sale of the
whole property of the corporation, including the franchise, for
the payment of his debt. Nor do we mean to express any
opinion as to the validity or operation of the deeds of trust
and acts of Assembly of the State of Maryland, referred to in
the proceedings. If the appellant has a right to enforce the
sale of the whole property, including the franchise, his remedy
is in a court of chancery, where the rights and priorities of
all the creditors may be considered and protected, and the
property of the corpoiation disposed of to the best advantage,
for the benefit of all concerned. A court of common law, from
the nature of its jurisdiction and modes of proceeding, is incapable of accomplishing this object; and the Circuit Court
was right in granting the injunction, and its decree is therefore
affirmed.

THOMAS M. LEAGUE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CYRUS W.
EGERY, JOSEPH . 'SmITH, AND SAuAH A. SIaTH, ADMINisTRATRIX.
By the colonization laws of Mexico passed in 1824 and 1828, the consent of the

federal Executive of Mexico was essential to the validity of a grant of lands
within ten leagues of the coast.
The Supreme Court of Texas has repeatedly so decided, and"this court adopts
their decision.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr.. Hughes for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Phillips for the defendants.
Mr. Hughes tried to avoid the effect of the case of Smith v.
Power, 14 Texas, 147, which decided.that the grant was within

