SUPREME COURT.
The Board of Commusoiwnrs of Knox County v. Aspmwall et al.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
western district of Pennsylvania, and on the point or question
upon which thejudges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in
opinion, and which was certified to this court for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is the opinion of this court that the issue of bonds with coupons, in the case stated, are not null and void, but that it was
done under the authority of constitutibnal acts of the State of
Pennsylvania, in the case stated, and further, that they are
not null and void for any irregularity connected with that
issue by the city of Allegheny Whereupon it is now here
ordered and adjudged that it be so certified to the said Circuit
Court.
THE BOARD oF COMMISSIONERS OF KNOX COUNTY, PLAINTIFFS
ALSOP,
IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM H. ASPINWALL, JOSEPH W
HENRY CHANCEY, CHARLES GOULD, AND SAMUEL L. M. BARLOW
Where the commissioners of a county have authority by statute to issue
bonds, and are required to levy a tax to pay the interest coupons as they
become due, and, having issued such bonds, they neglect or refuse to assess
the tax or pay the interest, a writ of mandamus is the proper legal remedy.
The Circuit Courts of the United States have authority to issue such writ of
mandamus against the commissioners, where it is necessary, as a remedy for
suitors ii such court.
It is not a sufficient reason for setting aside a peremptory mandamus, that a
previous alternative writ had not issued.

THIs case was brought up by writ of' error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Indiana.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr Porter for the plaintiffi in error, and
Mr Vinton upon a brief filed by himself, and also one by .Ar
JTudah, for the defendants.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

877

The Board of Commsszoners of Knox County v. Aspmnca~l e aZ.

The principal point in controversy was the powir of the
Circuit Court, under the 14th section of the Judiciary act,-to
issue a writ of mandamus in this case. Upon this subject, a
portion of the arguments of the counsel can be given.
Mr Porter said.
If the Circuit Court of the United States has power to issue
a writ of mandamus to enforce the payment of a judgment at
law, it derives that power from the provisions of the 14th section of the Judiciary act of 1789.
It is not pretended that there is any other foundation for it.
Th~e words of the section are: "That all the before-mentioned courts of the United States shall have power to issue
writs of scire facias, habeas corpus, and all other writs not specially provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the
exercile of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the
principles and usages of law "
I maintain that the "exercise of jurisdictioh," in any sense
in which the writ of mandamus could be called in aid of it,
was complete in this case upon the rendition- of final judgment; that to enforce the payment of that judgment by
means of this extraordinary writ would not be "agreeable to
the principles and usages of law" Passing over 'the fact
which appears in the record, that an execution was issued,
and a levy actually made, which the party voluntarily abandoned to resort to his writ of mandamus, and .conceding, for
the sake of the argument, what the opposing counsel assumes
in his brief, that "no execution can be levied on the general
.property and effects of the county," I affirm that this state-of
facts simply presents the ordinary case of a party holding a
debt of record which cannot be realized by process of execution. And I deny that it follows that a writ of mandamus'in
such a case is, in any just sense, "necessary for the exercise
ofjurisdiction," or "agreeable to the principles and usages of
law "
The writ of mandamus is the appropriate remedy to enforce
the performance of some duty eiioined by law, where there is
no other adequate xemedy

SUPREME COURT.
The Board of Commi.soners of Knoz Couty v. Aspnnwall et aL

The duty imposed by law on the board of commissioners of
the county of Knox, now sought to be enforced, was a duty to
levy a tax for the payment of interest coupons, not judgment
of-a court of law
The holders of those coupons had a right to go into the,
State courts,-and enforce the levying of the tax for their pay.
mept, by mandamus, but they elected a different remedy
They chose to sue in the ordinary form, in the Circuil
Court, merged their coupons in a judgment at law, and mubt
rely for the collection of that judgment on the ordinary and
usual writs in use for that purpose.
If, upon the failure of these, they may resort to the writ of
mandamus to compel the payment oftheir judgment, on the
ground that such a writ is necessary to the exercise of jurisdiction, why may it not be used in every case, to compel the
payment of judgments which cannot be collected in the usual
way? The words of the statute, then, instead of being understood -as words restraining the power to issue the writ in aid
and furtherance of ordinary remedies only, will become a
grant-to. the Circuit Courts of the power to employ a new and
formidable process in all cases where the common writs of
execution fail.
The defendants in error rely on the case of Wayman v.
Southard to show that the words " n ecessary for the exercise
of jurisdiction" apply to proceedings after judgment, as well
as before.
The question decided in that case will appear from the certificate at the close of the opinion, which is as follows.
" Certifieate.-This cause came on to be heard on the questions certified from the United States court for the seventh
circuit and district of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, this court is of opinion that the
statutes of Kentucky ii relation to executions, which are referred to in the questions certified to this court, on a division
of opinion of the said judges of the said Circuit Court, are not
applicable to executions which issue on judgments rendered by
thu courts of the United States, which is directed to be certified
to the said Circuit Court."

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

379

The Board of C'ommzssoners of Kkox County v. Aspznwafl e al.

10 Wheaton, 50.

That part of the opinion of the court which relates to the
question now under consideration is as follows:
"The words of the 14th section are understood bythe court
to comprehend executions. An execution is a writ which is
certainly 'agreeable to the principles and usages of law'
"There is no reason for supposing that the general term
'writs' is restrained, by the words 'which may be necessary
for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions,' to original
process, or to process anterior to judgments. The jurisliction
of a court is not exhausted by the rendition of its judgment,
but continues until that judgment shall be satisfied. Many
questions arise oii the process subsequent to the judgment, in
which jurisdiction is tco be exercised. It is, therefore, no unreasonable extension of the words of the act to. suppose an
execution necessary for the exercise of jurisdiction. Were it
even true that jurisdiction could technically be said to terminate with the judgment, ai execution would be a writ necessary for the perfection of that which was previously done, and
would consequently be necessary to the beneficial exercise of'
jurisdiction. If any doubt could exist oii this subject, the
18th section, which treats of the authority of the court over
its executions as actually existing, certainly implies that the
power to issue them had been granted in the 14th section.
The same implication is afforded by the 24th and 25th dections, both of which proceed on the idea that the power to
issue writs of execution was in possession of the courts. So,
too, the process act, which was depending at the same time
with the Judiciary act, prescribes the forms of executions, lut
does not give a power to issue them. On the-clearest principlea of just construction, then. the 14th section of the Judiciary
act must be understood as giving to the courts of the Uion,
respectively, a power to issue executions on their judgments."
10 Wheaton, 23, 24.
Now, I submit that all this is inapplicable to the case It bar.
The learned counsel for the defendants says, in his brief,
after quoting friom the opinion of the court in Aaynian v.
Southard, "all that is said above about wits of executiou

SUPREME COURT.
The Board of Commzsswners of Knox County v. Aspnwall et aL

must be equally applicable to writs of mandamus, when they
are necessary to carry a judgment into effect."
Granting this, it must appear that in the case at bar a writ
of mandamus was necessary to carry the judgment into
effect
That is the touchstone proposed by the counsel for the defendants, and tried by that very test, the case is, in my
opinion, against them.
A case might be imagined, doubtless, where a writ of mandamus would be necessary to the "beneficial exercise ofjurisdiction," and to carry the judgment into effect. Suppose, for
instance, that an execution were lodged in the hands of the
sheriff, and that he were to neglect or refuse to serve it.. In
such a case a mandamus might properly be invoked in aid of
the jurisdiction, though more summary proceedings would
probably be preferred. But in this-case no obstruction is put
in the way -of the ordinary writs, which, "agreeably to the
principles and usages of law," may issue upon judgments at
law All the remedies which any such judgment ordinarily
supplies are open to the parties in this case. -But they are
said to be inadequate, yet it does not appear that ample property could not be found whereon to levy The parties then
propose to seek another remedy, not a means of carrying into
effect the judgment already ohtained, but a separate and inde.
pendent proceeding, in which they must begin de novo, auo
conduct a new suit through the several stages of pleadings,
hearing, and final judgment. The judgment already obtained
is not the basis of this new proceeding. The claim on.whici
that judgment was obtained is, it is a proceeding for enforcing
the claiin by a separate and independent action, not for enforcing the judgment. The object of the proceeding is, to
create-a fund out of which the claim may be paid. Is there
any writ or proceeding in the same case by which a fund may
be created for the payment of a judgment at law, "agreeably
to the principles and usages of law 9"
The proceedings in mandamus constitute a separate suit ir
general. So say the authorities. 6th Bac. Ab., 453.

DECEMBER TERM., 1860.
The Board of Oommsstoners of Knox County v. Asrnwall et &Z.

Mr Vinton said.
The Judiciary act of 1789, after having conferred on the
several courts of the United States their respective jurisdictions over the matters subjected to their cognizance, and
uponwhich they may pronounce judgments, proceeds in the
14th section to provide for the exercise of those jurisdictionsthat is to say, for carrying them into execution, in the language
of the above-recited clause of the Constitution, and, as I have
already said, into full and complete exccution. For that purpose it enacts "that all the before-mentioned courts of the
United States, (the Circuit Court being one of them,) shall
have power to issue writs of serre facias, habeas corpus, and
all other writs not specially provided for by statute, which
may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the prin iples and usages of law."
1 Statutes at Large, 81.
Under this section, the power of the Circuit Courts and of all
other courts of the United States is limited to the issue of writs
for the sole purpose or object of exercising their jurisdictions;
but for the accomplishment of that object and purpose, the
power is given to issue "all writs." whether of mandamus or
any other writs not specially provided for by statute, which
may be necessary, and are agreeable to the principles and
usages of law For the accomplishment of.that purpose no
language could be more comprehensive.
A construction was given to this 14th section in respect to
the extent of the power conferred by it on the Circuit Courts
to issue writs in the above-mentioned case of Wayman v.
Southard, 6 Pet. Cond. Rep., 4.
In that'case, it was insisted by one of the parties, that the
power copferred by that section was limited to process anterior to the rendition of the judgment, and -thatwhen jtdgment
was rendered the j'urisdiction of the court was exercihed and
exbausted, and that, consequently, the Circuit Courts could
not, by virtue of that section, issue executions on their judgments.
The court, after reciting the words ofthe'14th section, answer
this objection by saying, "the words of the fourteenth section

SUPREME COURT.
The Board of Commsszners of Knoz Cwnty v. Aspnwal et al.

are understood by the court to comprehend executions. An
execution is a writ which is certainly agreeable to the principles and usages of law There is no reason for supposing
that the general term, 'writs, is restrained, by the words
'which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective
jurisdictions, to original process, or to process anterior to
judgments. The jurisdiction of a court is not exhausted by
the rendition of its judgment, but continues until that judgment shall be satisfied. Many questions arise on the process
subsequent to the judgment, in which jurisdiction is to be
exercised. It is, therefore, no unreasonable extension of the
words of the act to suppose an execution necessary for the
exercise ofjurisdiction." 6 Pet. Cond. Rep., 4, 5.
All that is said above about writs of execution must be
equally applicable to writs of mandamus, when they are necessary to carry a judgment into effect.
This decision establishes two propositions, which have an
important bearing on the case now before the aourt.
1st. That the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court over a case
continues until its judgment is satisfied.
2d. That it has power to issue such writs, both before and
after judgment, as may be necessary for the exercise of its
jurisdiction, and are agreeable to the principles and usages
of law
From these propositions, it would seem to follow, as a
necessary corollary, that if in any case the writ of mandamus
was necessary for the satisfaction of the judgment, and the
case itself was one where, by the principles and usages of law,
the writ would issue, then the 14th section confers on the
court power to issue it for that special purpose.
The question of the extent of power given to the Circuit
Courts by this 14th section, to issue writs of mandamus, first
came up for decision in this court, in the case of McIntire v.
Wood, 2 Pet. Cond. Rep., 588.
Mr Vinton then proceeded to comment on several subsequent
decisions of this court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
The Board of Uommsswners of Anoz County v. AspznwalZ et al.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiffs in error were defendants in a suit by Aspinwall and others, in which a jud xment was recovered for interest
coupons on bonds issued by the corporation. The cause was
removed to this court, and may be found reported in 21 Howard, 539. The judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed,
and the record remitted.
In order to enforce the execution of this judgment, the
plaintiffs moved for a mandamus to the commissioners, to
compel them to levy a tax to satisfy the judgment. The
record shows that the board of commissioners appeared in
the Circuit Court and resisted the motion, on several grounds,
but chiefly that the court had no jurisdiction to issue a mandamus in this case.
The act of Assembly of Indiana, which authorized the issue
of the bonds and coupons which were the subject of the litigation, may be found in the former report of the case. (21
How., 512.)It appears that by the 3d section of this act it is made the
duty of the commissioners, for the purpose of paying the interest due oa the bonds, "at the levying of the county taxes
for each year, to assess a special tax, sufficient to realize the
amount of the interest to be paid for the year."
This the commissionershad not done, and refused to do so,
on notice and request Lf the defendants in error.
Now, it is not alleged nor pretended but that, if this judgment had been obtained against the corporation in a State
court, the remedy now sought could have been obtained, for
it must be admitted, that, according to the well-established
principles and usage of the common law, the writ of mandamus is a remedy to compel any person, corporation, public
functionary, or tribunal, to perform some duty required by
law, where the party seeking relief has no other legal remedy,
and the duty sought to be enforced is ciear and indisputable.
That this case comes completely within the category- is toe
clear for argument; for, even assuming that a general law of
Indiana permits the public property of the "ounty to be levied

SUPREME COURT.
The Board of Commmszswners -ofKnox County v. As.pnwan er al.

on and sold for the ordinary indebtedness of the county, it is
clear that the bonds and coupons issued under the special
provisions of this act were not left to this uncertain and insufThe act provides a special fund for the payficient remedy
ment of these obligations, on the faith and credit of which
they were negotiated. It is especially incorporated into the
contract, that this corporation shall assess a tax for the special
purpose of paying the interest on these coupons. If the commissioners either neglect or refuse to perform this plain duty,
imposed on them by law, the only remedy which the injured
party can have for such refusal or neglect is the writ of mandamus.
Why should not the Circuit Court of the United States be
competent to give to suitors this only adequate remedy9
By the common law, the writ of mandamus is granted by
the King s Bench, in virtue of its prerogative and supervisory
power over inferior courts. The courts of the United States
cannot issue this writ by virtue of any supervisory power at
common law over inferior State tribunals. They can derive
it only from the Constitution and laws of the United States.
The jurisdiction of these courts is, by the Constitution, extended to "controversies between citizens of different States."
Congress has authority to make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying this jurisdiction into effect. The
jurisdiction of the court to give-the judgment in this case is
not disputed, nor can it be denied, that by the Constitution,
Congress has the power to make laws necessary for carrying
into execution all its judgments. (See Wayman v. Southard,
10 Wheaton, 22.) Has it done so?
By the 14th sction of the Judiciary act of 1789, it is enacted
"thaf courts of the United States shall have power to issue
writs of scirefacas, habeas corpus, and all other writs not specially
provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the principles of the common law "
Now, tho "jurisdiction " is not disputed, and it is "necesgary" to an efficient exercise of this jurisdiction that the court

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

385

Thew Board-of Commmstswners of Knox County v. AspnwaZI et aZ.

have authority to compel the exercise of a ministerial duty by
the corporation, which by law they are bound to perform, and
by the performance of which alone the plaintiff's remedy can
be effected. The fund to pay this judgment, by the face of
the contract, is a special tax laid and to be collected by defendants. .They refuse to perform a plain duty There is no
other writ which can afford the party a remedy, which the
court is bound to afford, if within .its constitutional powers,
except that afforded by this writ of mandamus.
It is "agreeable to the principles -of the common law," and,
consequently, within the category as defined by the statute.
.& court of equity is sometimes resorted to as ancillary to a
court of law in obtaining satisfaction of its judgments. But
no court, having proper jurisdiction and process to compel the
satisfaction of its own judgments, can be justified in turning
its suitors over to another tribunal to obtain justice. It is no
objection, therefore, to the use of this remedy, that the party
might possibly obtain another by commencing a new litigation
in another tribunal.
We are of opinon, therefore, that the Circuit Court had
authority to issue the writ of mandamus in this case.
It is no reason for setting it aside, that a previous alternative
writ had not issued. The notices served on the commissioners gave them every opportunity of defence that could have
been obtained by an alternative mandamus. There was no dispute about facts which could affect the decision. The court
gave them an opportunity to comply with the demand of the
plaintiffs, their excuse for not doing so was, palpably, "a
mere colorable adjournment or procrastination of the performances of the act, for the purpose of delay" It is equivalent to
a refusal. Having refused to perform the duty which the law
imposed upon them on the proper day, without even the pretence of a reason for such conduct, the peremptory mandamus
was very properly awarded, commanding the duty to be performed " forthwith."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, affirmed
with costs.
VOL. xxrv

25

