DECEMBER .TERM,. 1860.
Ballance v. Forj

188

et al

The ease of Williams v. Ballance, 23 Ill., 198, involved a
controversy similar to that before the court.
The iquiry there was as to the validity of the residence
and possession of Ballance to support his defence of the statute of limitations, it being the residence and possession established by the testimony in this suit. The Supreme Court of
Illinois inquires whether Ballance occupied the premises described in the patent since 1844, by actual residence thereon.
"The fact," says the court, "is that he did, but he did not
reside upon every square yard of the premises, nor upon. the
particular lot. Nor was this necessary He resided upon tli
legal subdivision described in the patent, the evidence of Ins
title, and possessed and occupied it by himself and tenants.
We think the laying out the land into town lots did not
deprive him of the benefit of the statute of limitations of 1835,
as to all the fractional quarter, except the particular lot upon
which his house stood. He had a right to divide it into as
many lots, or portions, or divisions, as he pleased, and put a
separate tenant on each, and their, occupation would be his
possession and the law only required him to possess and reside upon the premises claimed by his title-papers, but the law
does not say upon what portion he should reside, and, above
all, it does not declare that he should reside upon every portion of it." The instructions of the Circuit Court are inconsistent with the law as thus laid down by the Supreme Court.
In our opinion, fhe possession established by Ballance in this
case was such as placed him under the protection of the statute.
Judgment reversed and cause remanded.

CHARLES BALLANCE, APPELLANT, v. R0BERT FORSYTH, LUCIENE

DUMAIN, AND ANTOINE R. Bouis.
After the mandate went down to the Circuit Court, in te case of Ballance
v. Forsyth, 13 Howard, 18, Ballance filed a bill upon the equity side of the
court, setting forth the same titles which were involved in the suit at law.
•id praying rellie.

SUPREME COURT.
Ballancc v. Forsyth ctal.
It was not allowable for him to appeal from the judgment of the Circuit Court
and Supreme Court to a court of chancery, upon the merits of the legal titles
involved in the controversy they had adjudicated.
The objections to the title of his adversary should have been urged upon the
trial of the suit at law; and if they are founded upon alleged errors in the
location and survey, all such questions are administrative in their character,
and must be disposed of in the Land Office. He ought to have made opposition there; if he did not, he is concluded by his laches.
In the record there is a paper purporting to be an amended bill. It is doubtful
whfther this was properly filed, and if it was, it presents no ground of relief.

This was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the northern district of Illinois.
It was a sequel to the case of Ballance v. Forsyth, reported
in 1:3 Howard, 18. After the mandate went down from this
court, Ballance filed a bill on the equity side of the court; setting forth the same titles that were involved in the suit at law,
and praying relief upon certain special grounds, which it is
not necessary to enumerate.
It was- argued by the same counsel as the two preceding
cases.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill filed -bythe plaintiff to enjoin the execution of
a judgment ii the Circuit Court, upon which a writof error
had been taken to tlis court and affirmed.
The cause in this court was between the same parties, and
the decision of the court is reported in 13 How S. 0. R, 18.
The plaintiff sets forththe claims of the respective parties,
and insists that his is the superior right, and that he is entitled
But it is noi alovable to him to apto have the property
peal from the judgment of the Circuit Court and Supreme
Court to a court of chancery upon the, relative merit of the
legal titles involved in the controversy they had adjudicated.
He further objects to the title of his advcrsarics. He insists,
that ii the location of their claini under the acts of May, 1820,
and March, 1823, referred to ii the report of the case as the
,iirc, of their title, there was an erroneous location and slir-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Balance v. Forsyth el al.

vey, and that a larger extent of ground was conceded to them
than they were entitled to, that the plan of survey did not
uonform to the requirement of Congress, and that their proofs
were not filed in time. If either of these objections is of sufficient force to invalidate the title and' to render it void, it should
have been urged upon .the trial at law, and it is too late -after
judgment upon the title to employ it to contest the issuing of
the execution. But if they are mere irregularities, the court
of chancery has no juiisdiction to notice them. It is the set-.
tIed doctrine of this court, that in the location and suiveyof
claims arising under acts of Congress like those of May, 1820,
and March, 1823, the Executive Department of the Government has, in general, exclusive jurisdiction, and that all questions arising upon their location and survey are administrative
in their nature, and must be disposed of in the Land Office.
The. plaintiff was aware of the existence 6f these claims, and
of the jurisdiction to which their adjustment was confided.
His patent contains an explicit reservation of the rights of
any ai'd all persons claiming under the act of Congress of 3d
March, 1823, entitled "An act to confirm certain claims to
lots in the village of Peoria, in the. State of Illinois." If he
preteritted his opposition to their location and survey before
the General Land Office, he is concluded by bis laches. If
his opposition was made unsuccessfully, the decision of that
department-upon his objections is binding upon him.
Besides these objections, the plaintiff has introduced into
the record a claim for the improvements upon the lots recovered by the judgment of the Circuit Court. It is not at allclear that the amendments to .the bill in which this claim is
contained were filed with leave, and form any part of the bill.
It is uot charged in them that the plaintiffs in the suits at law
have opposed any obstruction to his removal, of the improvements, and the entire statement of the bill concerning them is
vague and unsatisfactory We are unable to find in theni any
ground upon which the suspension of the execution of the
judgment can be justified.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed.

