362

SUPREME COURT.
Htassey et al. v. Fapin.

of the register and receiver in such a case as this is conclusive
of the title. There is no dispute in this case upon the subject
of the location of the claim of Yair. The whole case shows
that it had been identified and was actually possessed by
Yair and his .heirs. The patent of the defendants in error
acknowledges that its location had been made, and that the
new survey for the claim of Mrs. Tate covered this location.
The decision of the register and receiver does not proceed
npon any assumption of a conflict of location, but of a denial
of the right of Yair. They had no authority to overthrow the
decision of the register and receiver that had been made more
than twenty.years before, which had bean followed by possession, and as to which there had intervened the claims of bona
fide purchasers. It further appears that Mrs. Tate did not
settle upon this parcel of land, and that the decisiou of the
register and receiver in her favor is not .supported by testimony. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
does not contain any error within the scope of the revising
jurisdiction of this court, and-it is consequently affirmed.

P LAINIPiFS 3N ERROR, V. JOSEPH
L. PAPIN.

SAMUEL MASSEY AND OTHERS,

Before 1819, Mackay had a claim to -land in Missouri under a Spanish grant,
and in that year gave a bond in the nature of a mortgage on a part of the
land to Delassus.
In 1836, Congress confirmed the claim to James Mackay or his legal representatives. This enured to the benefit of the claimants under the mortgage rather
than to the heirs of Mackay.
An imperfect Spanish title claimed by virtue of a concession was, by the laws
of Missouri, subject to sale and assignment and, of course, subject to be mortgaged for a debt.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Couzt of Missouri by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
Judiciary act.
The record was very voluminous, as it traced the title to
land for a number of years. It is not necessary to follow this.

DECEMBER 12RM, 1860.
Massey et al. y. Papin.

Mackay was the holder of a grant of lauid from Spain for
80,000 arpents, prior to 1819. In that year he gave a bond, by
*ay of mortgage, in which he promised to convey fourteenthirtieths of the land to Delassus,. who assigned his interest in
it to Leduc.. In 1822, Mackay died,leaving a widow and eight
children. In 1836, Congress confirmed the claim to Mackay.
-or his legal representatives. In 18.42, Leduc died, devising
all his property to flypolite Papin. Afterwards, in the. same
year, Papin died, devising all his property to his children
equally. In 1854, Joseph L. Papin, one of.the children, and the
defendant in error, foreclosed the mortgage against the heirs
and a dmiiiistrators of Delassrs. It was sold, and' Papin became the purchaser of fourteen-thirtieths of the 30,000 arpents.
Papin then claimed a partition, which was resisted by-Massey
and others, who claimed under the heirs of Mhckay. The
Supreme Court of Missouri decidled in favor of Papin, and
the case was brought up to this court, where it was argued
by Mr. Blair for the plaintiffs in error,-and Mr. GRover for the
defendant:
Mr. Justice CATRONf delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by writ of error to the Supreme
'Court of Missouri.
In 1806, James Mackay presented his claim before the board
of commissioners, sitting at St. Louis, to have confirmed to
him 80,000 arpents of land. In.1809, the board rejected the
rlaim.
In 1819, Mackay gave a bond in the nature of a mortgage
on 14,000 arpents of the land to Delassus. Papin claimed'as
assignee of the mortgage, which he caused to be foreclosed,,
*and purchased in the land, and took a title from the sheriff.
Massey and others claim under Mackay's heirs.
- The Supreme Court, of Missouri decided thdt Papin, claiming under the mortgage of Mackay to Delassus, had a better
title than Massey, who claimed under the heirs. And to reverse, this decision, this writ of error is prosecuted.
The board of land commissioners of .1809 refused to confirm
the claim; they were acting on the title as between the United

SUPREME COURT.
Amey v. Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of Alegheny City.

States and the claimant. The Government had the power to
grant the land in fee, regardless of the opinion of the board.
Accordingly, in 1832, an act of Congress was passed organizing
another board to examine this description of Spanish claimb,
v hich had been rejected by the old board. The new-board,
in October, 1832, recommended the claim for confirmation
"to said James Mackay, or his legal representatives." James
Mackay had died, and his heirs presented the claim the second
time; and it is insisted that the confirmation to them by the
act of 1836 rejected the mortgage of Delassus, and that the
heirs took the unincumbered legal title discharged of the
mortgage.
An imperfect Spanish title, claimed by virtue of a concession, was, by the laws of Missouri, subject to sale and assignment, and of course subject to be mortgaged for a debt. The
heirs of Mackay took the lands by descent,. with the incumbrance attached, and held them in like manner that their
ancestor held. The grant of the lands to the heirs by the act
of 1836 carried the equities of the mortgagee with the legal
title, of which he took the benefit-a consequence.contemplated
by the mortgage itself; and if the assignment had been in its
form a legal conveyance of the lands, the grantee would have
taken a legal title. And to this effect are the cases of Bissel
v. Penrose, 8 How., and Landes v. Brant, 10 HOW.
It is ordered that the judgment be affirmed.

HENRY AmEY, PLAINTIFF, V. THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN, AND
ZENS OF ALLEGHENY CIM

OITI-

In 1848, the Legislature of Ohio incorporated certain of its citizens under the
name of the Ohio and Pennsylvania Railroad- Company; and in 1849, the
Legislature of Pennsylvania incorporated the same company by the same style,

and adopted the act of Ohio.
In 1849, the Legislature of Pennsylvania exempted from taxation, except for

State purposes, the certificates of loan theretofore issued or which might be
thereafter issued by the city of Allegheny (amongst others) in payment of a

subscription to the capital stock of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, oz
to the capital stock of the Ohio ad Pennsylvania Railroad Company.

