DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

465

Perinet al. v. Carey et a.

son v. Kinzie, 1 How., 311. It was there held, after a very
careful and extended examination by the court, through the
Chief Justice, that the State law impaired the obligation of the
mortgage contract, and was forbidden by the Constitution.
This decision has since been repeatedly affirmed. 2 How.,
612; 3 Ib., 716.
It is due to the judges of the court below to say that they
felt bound by a decision of their predecessors, which they
admitted to be in direct conflict with the case of Bronson v.
Kinzie, and that the two decisions could not be reconciled.
We are entirely satisfied with the soundness of the decision
in the aboie case,, and wi. the grounds and reasons upon
which it is placed, and shall simply refer to them as governing.
the present case.,
Decree below reversed. Case remitted with~irections to
enter decree for the plaintiff in error.

CHARLES MCMICREN PERIN, CLYDE PERN; AND MARY E. PERIN,
INFANTS, BY THEIR FATHER AND NEXT FRIEND, FRANKLIN
PERIN, COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS, v. FREEMAN G.'
CAREY, WILLIAM CROSSMAN, AND WILT.iAm M. F. HEwSoN,
EXECUTORS OF THE LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT OF CHARLES
MCMICKEN, DECEASED, THE CITY OF CINCINNATI, ELIZABETH
RANDALL, DAVID P. STELLE, AND ELIZABETH STELLE, HIS WIFE,
AD A.DREW MCMICKEN, RESPONDENTS.
Charles McMicken, a citizen and resident of Cincinnati, -in Ohio, made.his will
in 1855, and died in March, .1858, without issue.
He devised certain real and personal property to the city of Cincinnati and its
successors, in trust forever for the purpose of building, establishing, and maintaining as far as practicable, two colleges for the education of boy- and girls.
None of the property devised, or which the city may purchase for the benefit
of the colleges, should at any time be sold. In all applications for admission
to the colleges, a preference was to be given to any and all of the testator's
relations and descendants, to all and any of his legatees and their descendants,
and to Mrs. McMicken and her descendants.
1i1there should be a surplus, it was to be applied to makipg additional buiidings,
aind .to the support of poor white male and female orphans,. neither of whose
80
VoL. XX=.

SUPREME COURT.
Perinet al. v. Carey et al.
parents were living; preference to be given to our relations and collateral descendants.
The establishment of the regulations necessary to carry out the objects of the
endowment was left to the wisdom and discretion of the corporate authorities
of the city of Cincinnati, who shall have power to appoint directors to said
institution.
This will can-stand; and with reference to the various points of law connecteu
therewith, this court establishes the following propositions, viz:
I. The doctrines founded upon the statute of 43 Elizabeth, c. 4, in relation to
charitaole trusts to corporations, either municipal or private, have been adopted
by the courts of equity in Ohio ; but not by express legislation, nor was that
necessary to give courts of equity in Ohio that jurisdiction..
2. The English statutes of mortmain were never in force in the English colonies, and if they were ever considered to be so in the State of Ohio, it must
have been from that resolution by the Governor and judges in her territorial
condition ;. and if so, they were repealed by the act of 1806.
3. The city of Cincinnati, as a corporation, is capable of taking in trust devises
and bequests for charitable uses, and can take and administer the devises and
bequests in the will- of C. McMicken.
4. Those devises and bequests are charities in a legal sense, and are valid in
equity, and may be enforced in equity by its jurisdiction in such matters without the intervention of legislation by the State of Ohio.
5. McMicken's direction, in section 32 of his will, that the real estate devised
should not be alienated, makes no perpetuity in the sense forbidden by the
law, but only a perpetuity allowed by law and equity in the cases of charitable
trusts.
6. There is no uncertainty in the devises and bequests as to the beneficiaries of
his intention; and his preference of particular persons as to who should be
pupils in the colleges which he meant to found was a lawful exercise of his
rightful power to make the devises and bequests.
7. The disposition which he makes of any surplus after the complete organization of the colleges is a good charitable use for poor white male and female
orphans,
8. Legislation of Ohio upon the subject of corporations, by the act of April 9,
1852, does not stand in the way of carrying into effect the devises and bequests
of the will.

Tns was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, sitting in equity, for the southern district of Ohio:
The bill Was filed by the appellants to set aside the devises
and bequests in the will of Charles McMicken to the city of
Cincinnati, in trust for the foundation and maintenance of two
colleges.
The nature of the devise is stated summarily in the head

DECEMBiEdR TERM. 1860.
.Perinet aZ. v. Carey et. al.

note of this report, and more particularly in the opinion of the
court.

The lbill specified the following objections to the validity of
the devises and bequests:
1. "Said city of Cincinnati was formerly a municipal corporation, created aid having certain powers conferred upon it
by an act of incorporation of the Legislature of the State of
Ohio, but it now exists only as a political division of the State,
under a general law having a uniform operation throughout
the State, and is without any power or authority to accept
said devises and bequests, to acquire or hold the title to the
property mentioned in said devises and bequests for the purposes therein expressed, or to execute the trusts or any of "
them therein set forth and declared.
2. "Said Charles McMicken, deceased, has undertaken, by
said alleged devises and bequests, to render a large amount
of real estate above described, situate in said city of Cincinnati, in said State of .Ohio, and an indefinite amount of real
estate to be hereafter purchased in said city of Cincinnati,
forever unalienable, contrary to the law and public policy of
said State.
8. "There are no, persons inenftioned or referred to as beneficiaries, under the trusts attempted to be created by said will,
who are so described that they are entitled to and can claim
the benefit of said trusts or any of them, and the same are
therefore void for uncertainty.
4. "By the terms of said will, the establishment of the regulations necessary to carry out the objects of the endowment
attempted to be made, aid the power to appoint directors of
the institutions therein named, are. vested in the 'corporate
authorities of the city of Cincinnati, but there are no persons,
either artificial or natural, who fall within or are sufficiently
identified by said description.
5. "The trusts attempted to be created by said will are uncertain and illegal for the further reason, that the distribution
of the trust fund between the two objects, of the education of
white boys and girls and the support of poor white -male and
female, orphans. is to be left to the unrestrained discretion of

468

SUPREME COURT.
Perin el al. v. Carey et al.

the city of Cincinnati, or of the corporate authorities of the
city
Cincinnati.
". of
"The trust attempted to be created by said will
for tile
support of poor white male and female orphans is illegal and
void, because, without authority .of law, and in violation of
the statutes and public policy of the State of Ohio, it is therein
required that before they shall receive any benefit therefrom,
their guardians, or those in whose custody they are, shall have
first entirely relinquished their control of them to the said
.city; and provided, that those orphans who may have remained
until they have reached any age between fourteen and eighteer
years shall be bound out b* the said city to some proper art,
trade, occupation, or employment."
The respondents demurred to the bill, which was sustained
by the Circuit Court and the bill dismissed. The complain.
ants appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Headingon and Mr. Ewing for the ap
pellants, and by Mr. Pugh and 1r. Taft-for the appellees.
A separate argument was filed by Mr. 1Headington, of one
hundred pages; a joint one by Mr. Ewing and himself, of
twenty pages; an argument by Mr. Pugh, of thirtypages; and
one by M. Taft and Mr.Perry, of eighty-seven pages.
The reporter is embarrassed by the quantity of matter, all
of which he would lay before his readers if it were possible.
But being obliged to select only a part, he prefers to omit the
arguments relating to.the English system of trusts and cbarities, .withwhich the profession are doubtless acquainted, aiid,
-after some general points, to confine his -attention to those
arguments whichrelate especially to the state of the law in
Ohio.
Mr. Headington. and Mr. Ewing -laid down these general
propositions:
In behalf of the appellants, we claim that the devise and
bequest to the city in trust should be held void, on the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

469

Perin d al. v. Carey et al.

grounds that the trustee, the city of Cincinnati, is incapable
of taking and executing the trust, and that the cestuis qie trusi
are dependent on the selection and designation-of the trustee;
consequently, that there is not, nor can there ever be, either
trustee or cestui que trust.
And that in violation of the Constitution of Ohio, it withdraws the colleges from the power of the Legislature, and
makes them immortal, and it creates a perpe.tuity in the lands
with which they are endowed, making them inalienable forever,swhich is against the letter and the policy of the law.
The course of argument led to the examination of this devise, irrespective of the law of charities, under the ordinary
rules of equity; and afterwards as a charity. Upon both. of
these grounds the devise was claimed to be void, and both
points were investigated at great length.
The counsel then spoke of the course of decisions in. England, commented on by this court, and proceeded as follows:
3. This system is not ours; it is not the law of this .court,
nor is it the law of Ohio.
hIn
1795, the Northwestern territory adopted from the Virginia code a law adopting British statutes prior to the fourth
year of James I. The Ohio Legislature enacted it in 1805,
and repealed it in 1806; so we have none of it. We have in
Ohio laws respecting religion, education, and charities, but
they are to be construed, as we submit, precisely as if there
had never been a statute.of Elizabeth in England.
But it is said there has been a course of leiislation in Ohio
tending to the same result with the statute of Elizabeth, and
that pro tanto, at least, the decisions under that statute ought
to be regarded. An analysis of those laws will, I think, set
this question of legislative sanction at rest. Each act which
that Legislature has ever-passed on the subject performs its
own special office distinctly and exactly, and leaves everything
else under the implied negative, that the Legislature did not
choose to include it. They are six in number, providing:
1. That a devise to the poor of a township shall vest the
estate in the trustees of the township, for the use of the poor
Swan, 612, see. 14.

SUPREME COURT.
Perin etal. v. Carey et al.

2. A devise to the State 6f Ohio, or to any person whom.
soever, in trust for the common-school fund, -the same shall
be vested in the common-school fund.
Swan, 832, see. 5; 839, sec. 11.
3. The respective township boards of education shall have
power-to take and hold in' trust-for the use and benefit of any
"central or high shool, or sub-district school in the township."
Swan, 852.
4. The trustees of the lunatic asylum may take and hold in
trust any lands, &c., conveyed, &c., to be applied to any purpose connected with the institution.
Swan, 556 and'127.
5. Townships which ha've been lawfully laid off and designated shall have power to receive any devise, &c., to the
township, for the benefit of the township, either for a public
square or other usefulpurpose specified in such devise, &c.,
and shall hold the same in trust for the township, for the purposes specified in such conveyance.
Swan, 992, see. 1.
6. The trustees of any university, college, or academy, (created according to the provisions of the act in which the
authority is- found,) may hold in trust any property devised,
bequeathed, or donated, upon any specific trust, consistent
with the objects of such corporation.
Swan, 192, sec. 3.
Now, all these provisions are very distinct and exact, and
require no loose or irregular construction. On the contrary,
they seem intended to prevent it, by laying down plain rules
for conve.yances to all such uses as the Ohio Legislature
thought proper to regard with fAvor; and if any of the re-quisites of an ordinary conveyance in trust-is dispensed with,
it is written doWn in plain terms.
There was a clause in a statute of 1838 (36 Ohio Laws, p.
35, see. 43) which admitted of a very large construction. It
directed the superintendent of common schools "to take an
account of all funds and property given in any way for the
support of education, except chartered colleges, and to carry
into effect, as nearly as may be, the obiect of the trust."

DECEMBER TERIM, 1860.

471

Perin et al.*v. Carey-et al..

In the revision under the Constitution of 1851 this was repealed, and in its stead the attorney general is directed "to
cause proper suits to be instituted at law and in chancery to
enforce the performance'of trusts f6r charitable and ejucational purposes, and restrain the abuse thereof." All that is
loose and latitudinarian in the act of 1838 is extluded from
the act of 18525 namely: "funds and property given in any
way," and directions to carry "into eFect, as nearly as may be,
the.object of the trust." "As nearly as may be" cy pres adopted and repealed, not repealed by accidet, but because the legal
world condemned it. The attorney general, in its stead, is
directed to enforce the performance of trusts-valid trusts, of
course, such as the laws authorize.-_
The statute of March 26, 1856, is relied on by defendants'
counsel. It provides:
"That whenever any person shall by deed, devise, gift, or
otherwise, set apart any lands, moneys, or effects, as an endowment of a school or academy, not previously established,
and shall not provide for the management of such school or
academy, the coumt of common pleas of the proper county
shall appoint five trustees, who shall have the control and
management of the property, moneys, and effects so set apart,
and of the sclool or academy thus endowed, and shall hold
their offices for five years," &c.
It caunot be supposed that this act under any ordinary constructiofi can reach the case; but enlarged and extended
under the statute of Elizabeth, it miglit answer any purpose
to which chancellors should please to apply it. According to
the ordinary rules of constructi6n, it has the reverse effect.
The Legislature had the subject of donations for educational
purposes before them. They provided for sehools and academies, but did not choose to provide in like manner for colleges. Colleges were already providedforjust as the Legislature
thought most proper.
Swan, 193, 196.
And the testator did not think fit to give his land or money
to a school or academy under the control of trustees selected
bv the court of common pleas.

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

While denying the application of the statute of Elizabeth in
Ohio, we are safe in saying, that this devise could not be sustained in the English chancery by the present settled construction of the law under that act. They would hold this to
be a specific charity, carefully and accurately defined, which
could not go into effect according to the expressed intent of
the donor. And as there is no expression of a general chari-table intent, dehors the defined object, equity could not apply
it ey pres to any other like charity.
Att'y Gen. v. Whitechurch,-3 Vez., 145.
Corbyn v. French, 4 Vez., 431.
Clarke v. Taylor, 21 Eng. Law and Eq. Rep., 308-9.
It is a devise, too, on the express condition that the provisions of the will "shall be faithfull complied with;" and the
English chancery would give the testator the benefit of that
condition.
De Themmines v. De Bonneville, 5 Russel, 288.
Now; in this case the testator declares that he gives his
estate to no such trustees as the law offers him, to no such
purpose as the law points out, and he submits it to no such
regulations as the law makes for him. HEe prescribes his own
conditions,; the law does not- admit, and cannot be modified
so as to admit them. The. condition of the devise cannot be
complied with; the devise therefore would fail under the law
of charities as now administered in England.
But we are, in Ohio, as we have shown,. quite clear of the
statute of Elizabeth, and of the King's prerogative,.by which
that statute was perverted, and we havd in its stead specific
legal provisions, defining the mode of donation and endowment of the various charities which it was thought fit to encourage. He who desires to found or endow an institution of
learning or a charity has no need of other aid than the regular
administration of the laws gives him, unless, as in this case,
he desires to do what the law will not permit.
There are some familiar cases where corporations or associations made trustees were incompetent to execute the trust;
in which the Legislatures, as patentes patrie, have passed enabling a'cts granting the iower, as in case of the Sailc rs' Snug

DEOEMBER TERM, 1860.
Perin et al. v. 0arey et al.

Harbor in New Yor , the Girard College in Pennsylvania,
and the McIntyre Poor School in Ohio.
But the Constitution of Ohio of 1851 does not admit in
future of such enabling statutes. The Legislature of that
State cinnot now confer .ona corporation any special powers.
Art. 13, se. 1, Swan, 27.
The statute of April 9, 1852, 'in strict conformity with the
Constitution, provides that colleges .may be founded by individuals, and incorporated under its provisions. A city cannot
found a college. One man, however rich, may not found a
college and be the autocrat and controllbr of education and
mind forever; but five or three, all citizenii resident, may found
and incorporate a college, (Swan, 193, 195, 196,) but th6y cannot give it perpetuity. The directors may. sell and dispose of
the real estate-with which it is endowed; it may- be sold on
execution to pay the debts of the college, and the Legislature
may repeal the law un.der which it isincorporated, and thus
alter or destroy the instituti6n at pleasure.
Const., art. 13, sec. 2.
The 6th article of the Constitution of 1851 provides for common schools; the 1st section of the 7th article for institutions
for the benefit of the insane, blind, deaf and dumb; while
colleges are left to be worked out under the 13th article, with
other corporations. They are placed on thd saifie footing with
railroads, mining and manufacturing companies, and the Legislature cannot, if they would, divest themselves of the power to
destroy at pleasure the organization of any one of them when
created according to legal warrant.
Const., att. 13, see. 2, Swan, 27.
Act of April 19, 1852, Swan,'193-196.
This devise, then, cannot be made to conform to any law,
common- or statute, in Ohio, without disregarding the intent
of the testator. It would require the extreme application of
the ey pres doctrine to apply it in any'known legal form. The
city authorities, which the will requires should -found the aolleges, cannot found them; required to select the benieficiaries,
they cannot select them; they cannot manage the funds nor
govern the colleges; nor can the institutions come into being

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Garey et al.

stamped with the immortality and immunity from change
which the testator makes a condition of their creation; nor
can the lands with which they are endowed be withdrawn from
the operation of law forever, without violating a long-established and well-settled principle of our jurisprudence. The
testator did not create, or intend to create, a trust, such as the
laws of the State can suffer to be executed. He creates the
trust if it may be clothed with these impossible attributes; not
otherwise. In every case of charity cited from Ohio, and we
believe in every case sustained there, there was a good trustee.
In no case has a corporation, without special power, been held
capable of executing a trust.
There is no judicial decision in Ohio, even prior to the ConThe first

stitution of 1851, which would sustain this trust.

case that was supposed to involve the English doctrine of
charities was that of the McIntyre Poor School, 9 Ohio Rep.,
262. This was a devise to Amelia McIntyre and her issue;
and if she should die without issue, remained to the Zanesville
Canal and Manufacturing Company, in trust for the maintenance of a poor.school for the town of Zanesville. The testator
died; the Legislature afterwards .passed a special act enabling
the company to execute the trust. Amelia MeIntyre died
without issue, after the enabling act. The court held that the
corporation thus empowered took the estate as a contingent
remainder, and this is all that was decided in that case.
Chief Justice Lane, in the -written opinion of the court, says:
If there had been no competent trustee, the estate would descend to the heir charged with the trust. This was obiter, as
the court held the trustee competent, and the estate did not
descend. But the dictum was right if the trust was not discretionary, and wrong if it was. It does not seem to have
been discretionary; there was no selection of beneficiaries-=
not on the tax list. Judge Lane cited in its support a dictum
of Mr. Justice Thompson in Inglis v. the Sailors' Snug Harbor, 3 Pet., 119, which rests on a special provision of the will,
attaching the trust to the legal estate, wheriever it might pass.
"
Mr. Justice Thompson c.s Malim v,. Keighley, Vez. Jr.,
)

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Perin et al. v. Garey et al.

335, a case of ordinary trust for designated cestuis pue trust,
conferring no discretionary power on the trustee.
The case of Urmey's Executors v. Wooden, 10. S. R., 160,
is also relied on. In that there was a competent trustee, and.
a cestui que trust recognised by statute.
In the same volume, p. 478, is the case of Williams v. the
First- Presbyterian Ohurch of Cincinnati; in which a conveyance in trust for the use of an unincorporated church, created
in 1797, while the statute of Elizabeth was in force in the Territory, and vested in competent trustees, who, after the church
was incorporated, executed the trust, was holden valid.
These, we believe, are all the cases decided in Ohio which
touch the question even remotely; and in no one of the cases
in which the trust was sustained do the two fatal elements
meet-an incompetent trustee and a cestui que Irust dependent
on his selection. There are, however, loose dicta by judges
in some of these cases, such as are noticed by this court in
Fontaine v. Ravenal, but no decided oase in Ohio; and I believe none of these dicta sustain this devise. Since the adoption of the Constitution of 1851; and the act of 1852, above
referred to, no case has been considered in the courts of that
State involving the question. -Wehave, theft, in Ohio, no. current of decisions; no local usage creating a special law in case
of charities variant from the law in other cases; and w have
nothing to do with the decisions in other States, founded
partly on statufes, partly on usage, and partly on Tnistaken
notions of the powers of a court of chancery.
17 How., 484.
If the court apply the English decisions, under the statute
of Elizabeth, to Ohio, the first difficulty is to determine what
shall be favgred- as charities. The enumeration in that statute, to which it can hardly be contended we are bound, fails
us Tn some of its most material elements. For example, we
have no established church in Ohio. The Christian religion
itself forms no part of the law of that State.
Bloom v. Richards, 2 0. S. R., 387.
We, therefore, cannot legally distinguish pious uses from
snperstitious uses. All forms of religion, all the wild vagaries

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al v. Carey et il.

of the human mind, which relate to the being or non-being
of God, and the origin, the spiritual condition, and final destiny of man, if embodied and taught, must be regarded aliice
by our laws; and if donations forever to our leading religious
sects, their colleges, or universities, be favored beyond the
ordinary rules of law, so must the most absurd and most objectionable, if they be not absolutely immoral. Under these
conditions, it~would not greatly subserve the public good to
set up special laws for the protection and perpetuation of religious or collegiate educational charities. The decisive objection to it, however, is,
that our law contemplates no such
thing, but has, in effect, forbidden it, and provided for the
incorporation of religious societies and colleges by a statute
always subject to repeal; and it has provided for their endowment in property, real and personal, and made it all subject to
alienation. Then, if the course of decisions, under the statute
of Elizabeth, be adopted, we must resort to our.own laws to
find the cases to which the special rules apply.
The English cases rest upon the enumeration in that statute. The chancellor, in Attorney General v. Lord Lansdale,
says: "The institution of a school for gentlemen's sons is not,
in popular language, a charity; but in view of the statute of
Elizabeth, all schools for learning are to be so considered."
We speak the popular language, and colleges are not written
down in any of our statutes as charities. Swan, 51.
The 15th section of the act of May 1, 1852, making it the
duty of the attorney general to cause proper suits to be instituted to compel the performance of trusts for charitable and
educational purposes, will be relied on by counsel for appellees. This does not create 'trusts, or mend those that are imperfect, but applies only where trusts exist, created according
to law. We have contempor'ary statutes, showing how trusts
for -those purposes may be created; this act directs how they
may be enforced. The remarks of Oh. Just. Marshall, in Baptist
Association v. Hart's Executors, 4 Wh., 48, 49, are most apposite to this point. He says: "It is not to be admitted that
legacies not valid in themselves can be made so by force of
the prerogative, in violation of private right. This suppriu-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

tending power of the Crown, therefore, over charities, must be
-confined to those which are valid in law." And so with the
power and duty of the attorney general, under the Ohio
statute. He has nothing to do with this, unless it be a valid
devise in law, and the trustee neglects or prevents it.
Mr. Pugh's points were the following:
I. The doctrines founded upon the statute of 43d Elizabeth,
chapter 4, have been adopted by the courts of Ohio, and are
recognised in that State by express legislation.
Brown v. Manning, 6 Ohio Rep., 803:
Bryant v. MeCandless, 7 Ohio Rep.,:(part 2d,) 136.
Mason v. Muncaster, 9 Wheat., 445;
Williams v. First Presbyterian Society, 1 Ohio State
Rep., 478, 501.
McIntyre Poor School v. Zanesville Canal Co., 9 Ohio
Rep., 203, 287:
Zanesville Canal Co. v. City of Zanesville, 20 Ohio Rep..
488.
Urmey v. Wooden, 1 Ohio State Rep., 164.
Attorney General's Act, May 1, 1852, sec. 14, Swan'%
Stat., 51, 52.
Derby v. Derby, 4 Rhode Island Rep., 439.
H. The devises and bequests are to the city of Cincinnati,
for its own use, as a corporation, and are valid, therefore,
without regard to the statute of 43d Elizabeth.
1. There is no statute of mortmain in Ohio, nor any exception against bodies corporate in the act relating to last wills
and testaments.
Helfenstine 6. Garrard, 7 Ohio Rep., (p'art lst,) 275.
Hall v. Ashby, 9 Ohio Rep., 96, 98.
Crawford v. Chapman, 17 Ohio Rep., 449, 452, 453.
2. The city is a corporation authorized 1;y law to take and
hold property, real and personal, by deed or'will, for both the
purposes designated.
Municipal Corporation Act of May 3 1852, sees.. 18, 34
Swan's Stat., 960, 964.
Vidal v. Girard, 2 How., 186, 187, 189., 190.

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

MeDonough v. Murdoch, 15 How., 406, 407.
Collins v. Hatch, 18 Ohio Rep., U4.
Statutes of Ohio cited:
Act of January 14, 1853, Ohio Laws, vol. 51, p. 503.
Act of March 14, 1853, Swan's Stat., 610.
Act of March 11, 1853, Swan, 988, 989.
Act of April 29, 1854, Swan, 991 a., 991 b.
Act of March 8, 1831, Swan 41.
Act of March 12, 1853, Swan, 43, 44.
Act of March 11, 1853, Swan, 588.
Philips v. Bury, 2 Term Rep., 353.
III. The city has capacity, as a corporation, to take by devise; whether she can hold the estate for the purposes designated or not, is a question with which the appellants have no
concern.

Runyan v. Coster, 14 Pet., 122.
Goundie v. Northampton Water Co., 7 Pen. State Rep..
239, 240.
Leasure v. Iillegas, 7 S. and Rawle, 320.
Sheaffe v. O'Neal, 1 Mass. Rep., 257, 258.
Fairfax v. Hunter, 7 Cranch, 603.
Coke upon Littleton, 2.

IV. The devises and bequests are for the benefit of whole
denominations of persons, and to endow colleges and asylums
particularly described ; they are valid, in equity, therefore, without any trustee, and independently of the statute of Elizabeth.
M eCartee v. the Orphan Asylum Society, 9 Cowen, 484.
Bartlett v. Nye, 4 Metcalf, 378.
Baptist Association v. Hart, 4 Wheat., 1.
Inglis v. the Sailors' Snug Harbor, 3 Pet., 99.
Vidal v. Girard, 2 How., 127.
McDonough v. Murdoch, 15 How., 367.
Smith v. Sworinstedt, 16 How., 288.
McIntyre Poor School v. Zanesville Canal Co., 9 Ohio
Rep., 203, 287.
Statutes of Ohio cited:
Act of May 3, 1852, concerning wills, sec. 67, Swan's
Stat., 1034.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

479

Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

Act of March 26, 1856, "to provide' for the government
of schools and academies specially endowed," 53 Ohio
Laws, 33, 34.
Act of March 11, 1853, "for the better management of
orphan asylums," Swan's Stat., 588.
Fontaine v. Ravenal, 17 How., 369.
Clark 'v.Taylor, 21 Eng. Law and Eq. Reports, '08.
Wheeler v. Smith, 9 How., 55.
V. M1cMicken's direction that certain real estate shall not
be alienated, (sectiop 32,) is only a condition subsequent; and
whether valid, or invalid, cannot affect the devise.
McDonough v. Murdoch, 15 How., 410, 411, 412.
VI. The persons intended as- beneficiaries, by McMicken,
are described with sufficient certainty.
Vidal v. Girard, 2 How., 192, 193, 196.
McDonogh v. Murdoch, 15 How., 414.
Whicker v. Hume, 14 Beavan, 509.
Pickering v. Shotwell, 10 Penn. State Rep., 23.
VII. The phrase "corporate authorities of the city of Cincinnati" affords an apt description of those by whom McMicken's bounty is to be administered.
Act of January 14, 1853, section 1, Ohio Laws, vol. 51,
p. 503.
McIntyre Poor School v. Zanesville Canal Co., 9 Ohio
Rep., 218.
VIII. It furnishes no ground for objection that the appor-.
tionment of bounty, as- between the colleges.and the asylums,
will depend somewhat on circumstances,, or even the discretion of the municipal authorities.
Vidal v. Girard, 2 flow., 12.
MeDonough v. Murdoch, 15 How., 367.
Pickering v. Shotwell, 10 Penn. State Rep., 23.
IX. The statutes of Ohio authorize such disposition of"
orphan and destitute children as the 36th sectfon of McMicken's
will contemplates.
Aet of March 12, f.53, concerning apprentices and servants,
sees. 1, 2, 3, 4, Swan's Stat., 43, 44.

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

Act of March 11, 1853, "for the better management of
orphan asylums," see. 9, Swan's Stat., 588.
Amendment of March 25, 1854, Swan's Stat., 588.
X. It furnishes no ground of objection that Mc icken
stipulated for the preference of particular persons, as pupils
or beneficiaries, whether such persons be his own relatives or
the children of certain friends, or others.
Attorney General v. Earl of Lansdale, 1 Simmons, 105.
Wright v. Linn, 9 Penn. State Rep., 433.
XI. It is of no consequence whether the colleges intended
by MeMicken be or be not within the act of April 9, 1852,
"to enable the trustees of colleges, academies, universities,
and other institutions for the purpose of promoting education,
to become bodies corporate," or its suppleffent of March 12,
1853, Swan's Stat., 193, 295.
The colleges need not be incorporated, inasmuch as the title
of all the property is vested in the city of Cincinnati, and the
city is a corporation with perpetual succession. If this were
otherwise, the act of March 26, 1856, would be amply sufficient.
Ohio Laws, vol., 53, p. 33.
The points made by Mr. Taft and .Mr. Perry were the following:
I. The bequest of Mr. MeMicken to the city of Cincinnati
creates a meritorious and well-defined charitable 'trust, which
is not subject to any just legal objection for vagueness or uncertainty.
1I. The city of Cincinnati has the legal capacity to take
the title of property given to her by deed or by will in trust
for a valid charity, though it be not certain that such trust
falls within thospecified purposes of the corporation, in which
case the State only, and not the heirs,; can intervene to prevent
her from holding the title and execnting the trust.
III. The city of Cincinnati has capacity tb acquire and hold
the property, and to- execute the trust under this will.
IV. That, wlhethir the city be .capable or inc:apable as a tcistee, such uses as these in Mr. MeMicken's will are good and

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

481

Perin el al. v. Carey et al.

lawful uses by the common law of England, which is the common law of Ohio.
.V. That such trusts are entitled to protection in equity upon
general principles of equity jurisdiction, which protect all lawful trusts whether there be a trustee or not.
VI. That the original jurisdiction of courts. of eq'ity to
protect and preserve, such charitable trusts as this under Mr.
McMicken's will has been recognised and thoroughly establisbed, both by statute and -by judicial decisions in Ohio, where
it is now the settled law, as it is in nearly All the States of the
Union.
The argument upon the first five points must be omitted, as
was that of Mr. Pugh.
Upon the state of the law in Ohi;, the argument was as follows:
4. Let us now examine the law -of Ohio 'on this subject, as
shown by her history, and expressed by. her Legislature and
Ler courts.
1. It is fair to presume that any one of the States where the
common law of England prevails does and will protect, its
charities. They are descended from a country under whose
laws and whose courts, in the days of their colonial connection
with it, charity never failed. It is for the plaintiffs' counsel,
therefore, to show that the State of Ohio, though deriving
from :England the great body of the common law, has rejected
the English law of charities. The policy of Ohio, and all its
historical associations and recollections, have been unqualifiedly in favor of the laws of charity, and epecially of educational charity.
It is *ell known that Ohio was the first of the new Sta'tes
formed out of the great Northwestern territory to experience
that most*liberal policy, on the part of the Federal Govern-.
ment, which not only enjoined upon the Territorial Legislature
the encouragement of learning, but made munificent grants
of land for the uses of education.
By the 3d article of the ordinance of 1787, Swan's Statutes,
(1st revision,) 46, it is provided, "that religion, morality, and
knowledge being necessary to good government and the hapVOL. XXIV.
I,

81

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Careyf et al.

piness of mankind, schiols and the means of education shall
be forever encouraged."
By the act of 1785,' Congress destined section 16 in every
township to the support of schools, and section 29 of each
township to the support of religion, and several entire townships were dedicated to the support of universities and academies.
Ohio was pledged, while yet in her tutelage, by the Federal
Government, to an unreserved and fervent support and en'couragement of all the means of education for all her people.
These were the first vows required of her before she bad
formed her Constitution. It would have been ungrateful and
unfilial, after these early pledges, if she had built up a Constitution and a system of laws excluding so important a "meaiis
of education" as these great educational charities like that of
Mr. McMicken. She would have been false to her origin and
to her early vows. But she has not been forgetful of her duty
in that regard, as will appear by reference to her old as well
as to her new Constitution, and to the laws enacted under
them, and the decisions of her courts.
In 1799, the form of government was changed from the Governor and judges of the Territory to the Governor and Territorial Legislature.
On the termination of the first session held in Cincinnati, in
1799, the Legislature issued an address to the people, in which
it says: "Religion, morality, and knowledge, are necessary to
all good government. Let us, therefore, inculcate principles
of humanity, benevolence, honesty, and punctualityn dealing, sincerity, charity, and all the social affbections."
The lands devoted to educational purposes by Congress in
the territ6ry of which Ohio was formed amounted, in the aggregate, to more than a half a million of acres-a magnificent
charity, created by the Federal Government itself; and yet it
was not more certain in its objects than is this charity created
by Mr. MicMicken.
The object of the one and the other is identical. The General Government sought to enIourage 'by these townships of
land the highest grades of education.

DECEMBER TERM, 1S60.
Perin etcd. v. Carey et al.

*When Congress gave this land for a university, it did not
mean to limit the institution to a small Western college. It
intended to gay to the people of the State: Cherish your common schools, but do not neglect the universities,
If our Western institutions have failed hitherto to rank with

the oldest and best-endowed universities of the East, it has
been because they have lacked the accumulation of endowments to%
stimulate and encourage them. But if we follow out
the original and oft-repeated injunction of the old Congress to
the Territory, not only by applying these national charities
strictly to their objects, but also by availing ourselves of the
*charities of benevolent individuals devoted to the'same great
purposes, we shall not long want the merit, though we may
want the fame, of these ancient seats of learning.
And here we must be allowed to claim, as the first fruit of
the first university founded on that early national charity, a
lawyer and a statesman whose fame and influence have not
been confined to his own State of Ohio or the West; who has
been an ornament of the Senate and the Cabinet, and who still
adorns the bar of the Union; an alumnus whom Harvard or
Yale would be proud to claim.
It cannot be hoped that, by sustaining Mr. McMicken's
charity, -many specimens can be produced like the first graduate of the "Ohio 'University;" it is nevertheless to be hoped
that many young men, sharing in his spirit, may grow up under the influence of these institutions to do'honor to their age
and country-men who will have character, and can afford to
give calm counsel even amid the strife of parties arld the fury
of local jealousies.
By the 25th section of the same Constitution of 1802, page
38 of Swan's first revision of Ohio statutes, it is provided,
"hat no law shall be passed to prevent the poor in th several
counties and townships within this State from an equal participation in the schools and colleges and universities within
this State which are endowed, in whole or in part. from donations made by the United States for the support of schools and
colleges; and the doors of said schools, academies, and universities, shall be open for the reception of scholars, students,

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Garey et al.

and teachers, of every grade, without any distinction or pref
erence whatsoever, contrary to the intent for which said donations were made."
It is ivorthy-of especial observation how perfectly the testa.
tor's will harmonizes with the policy of the State as well as of
the United States on the subject of education and educational
institutions. Neither the State nor.the United States was content to limit its encouragement and support of education to
common schools. They provided for academies and universities.
By the 27th section of the same article it is provided, "that
every association of persons, when regularly formed within
this State, and having given themselves a name, may, on application to the Legislature, be entitled to receive letters of
incorporation, to enable them to hold estates, real and personal, for the support of their schools, academies, colleges, universities, and for other purposes."
The new Constitution of 1851 is equally explicit and strong
in its encouragement of education. By.the last clause of arti.
cle I, section 7, it is declared, that "religion, morality, and
knowledge, however, being essential to good government, it
shall be the duty of the General Assembly to pass suitablN
laws to protect every religious denomination in the peaccabl,
enjoyment of its own mode of public worship, and to encourage schools and the naeans of instruction."
Article VI, section 1, of the same Constitution, provides:
"Sec. 1. The principal of all 'funds arising from the sale or
other disposition of lands or other property granted or intrusted to this State for educational and religious purposes shall
forever be preserved inviolate and undiminished, and the income arising therefrom shall be faithfully applied to the specific objects of the original grants or appropriations.
" Sec. 2. The General Assembly shall make such provisions,
by taxation or otherwise, as, with the income arising from the
school trust fund, will secure a thorough and efficient system
of common schools through'out the State."
The policy of the State is thus shown by its fundamental
law to have beon, and to still be, to foster alike the common

DElCE.\BE R TERIM, 1860.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

schools, the academies, and the universities: and to cherish
and protect every-dollar which bad been or might be donated
for any of these purposes.
The legislation of the State in behalf of schools, academies,
high schools, and colleges, has been voluminous, and institutions of learning of every grade are encouraged, and all funds
donated or appropriated by law to these purposes are looked
after with extraordinary care.
By an act of 1888, (36 Ohio Laws, 85, sec. 48,) it was made
the duty of the general superfitendent of schools "to take an
account'of all funds and property given in anyway for the
support of education, except chartered colleges, and report the
condition of the same annually to the-Legislature;" "and
where, in his opinion, waste is committed, or about to be committed, either by misuser ornonuser, he may report the same
to the prosecuting attorney of the county," &c., "and such
proceedings shaJl be had by injunction, decree, or otherwise,
as shall prevent misuser ofsuch property, and carry into effect
as near as may be the object of the trust."
In 1852, when the office of attorney general of the State was
created, this duty of looking up charitieswas cast upon him,
and the office of general superintendent of schools was abolished at the same time, and the act above quoted was repealed.
By the act.of 1852, "to prescribe the duties of the attorney
general," (Swan's Stat., 51-2, sec. 14,) it is provided, "that
it shall be his duty to cause proper suits to be instituted at
law and in chancery to enforce the performance of trusts for
charitable and educational purposes, and restrain the abuse
thereof" whenever, upon the complaint of others, or from his
own knowledge, he may deem that to be advisible, or whenever by the Governor, the Supreme'C6urt, or either house of
the Geueral Assembly, he may be directed so to do, which saiC
suits may be brought in his own name, upon behalf of the
State or the beneficiaries of the trust, in the court of Franklin
county, or in the court of common pleas of any county wherein
the trust property may be situated or invested; and which suit
shall not abate nor discoutinue by any change of the officer,
but shall be prosecuted to final judgment, mandate, or decree,.

SUPREME COURT.
Perin etal. v. Carey et al.

as if no such change had occurred: provided, however, that
the attorney general may refuse to institute proceedings as
aforesaid, except when directed by the Governor, the Supreme
Court, or either house of the General Assembly, unless some
responsible freeholder of the State will become relator in the
cause and liable for the costs thereof; but whenever the Governor, the Supreme Court, or either house of the General Assembly, may direct any such suit, he shall cause the same to
be commenced and diligently prosecuted, without any other
relation."
Now, although the act of 1838, creating the general superintendent and assigning to him so specifically his duties, was
repealed when the attorney general act was. passed, it is not to
be supposed that the repeal of that act affected in any nanner
the validity of "all funds and property in any way given for
the support of education, except chartered colleges," the condition of which the superintendent was to report annually to
the Legislature; and in case of apprehended waste, report the
same to the prosecuting attorney, who was to cause such proceedings to be had by injunction, decree, or otherwise, as
should prevent misuse of such property, and carry into effect,
as near as might be, the object of the trust." Neither the
superintendent's act nor the attorney general's act gave validity to the educational and charitable trusts, nor did the repeal
of the former act impair that validity, but its enactment was
evidence of the recognition and existence of that kind of trusts.
They are all trusts which have an object given them by the
donor; and it is provided that if they cannot be carried out
strictly according to the gift, "it shall be carried out as nearly
as may be." This is an accurate description of the cy pres
mode of proceeding, and shows that, in Ohio, even if it be not
practicable to carry out the purpose of the gift precisely as
specified by the testator, it is valid nevertheless as a charity,
and to be carried out "as nearly as may be." No Legislature
in Ohio would presume by statute, in an indirect way, to take
from heirs and next of kin property which by the law of the
land belonged to them. Nothing could more strongly show
that the doctrine by which chancery aids charities is fully

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

487

Perinet al. v. Carey et al.

recognised in Ohio as an existing, unquestioned judicial principle, to enforce which the Legislature may prescribe different
remedies at different times, without in any manner leaving the
right itself doubtful.
And even if no rhmedy at all were provided by statute, the
right itself would not be lost, but would remain; and whenever
it should come before a tribunal competent to protect and enforce it, it would no longer be dormant. In 2 How. R., 196,
Vidal v. Philadelphia, the court passed upon a similar question. They say: "Whatever doubts, therefore, might properly
be entertained upon the subject when the case of the Trustees
of the Philadelphia Baptist Association v. Hart's executors, 4
Wheat., 1, was before this court, (1819,) those doubts are
entirely removed by the late and more satisfactory sources of
information to which we have alluded."
"If, then, this be the true state of the common law on tho
subject of charities, it would, upon the general principle already
suggested, be a part of the common law of Pennsylvania. It
would be-no answer to say that if so it was dormant, and that
no court possessing equity powers now exists, or has existed,
in Pennsylvania, capable of enforcing such trusts. The trusts
would nevertheless be valid in point of la,, and remedies may
from time to time be applied by the Legislature to supply the
defects. It is no proof of the non-existence of equitable rights
that there exists no adequate legal remedy to enforce them.
They may slumber, but they are not dead."
It is clear that the Legislature of Ohio intended by the "act
to prescribe the duties of attorney general," passed 1852, to
provide for the preservation of "proceeds of property given in
any way fG? the supportof education," which was protected by
the act of March 7, 1838, "for the support and better regulation of common schools, and to create permanently the office
of superintendent," above recited; as well as for other charities. Trusts for-charitable and educational purposes are terms
which have a judicial meaning, which the Legislature undoubtedly had in view. If the trusts intended were only such
as had a cestui que tiust in being capable of suing, why was the
significant word "charitable" used? If it-was intended to

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

protect only trusts which needed no such aid as charities are
known to need, why did not the Legislature say, "it shall be
his duty to cause proper suits to be instituted to enforce the
performance of trusts in which the public has an interest?"
It is true that the public have an interest in charities. But it
would seem as if the Legislature sought to use language that
was not doubtful-language which had a well-understood historical as well as judicial meaning.
What more did the statute of Elizabeth itself enact than
this law of Ohio? The statute of Elizabeth was 6ntitled, "An
act to redress the misemployment of money heretofore given
to certain charitable uses;" and it provides a remedy for
abuses of such trusts. In the preamble it enumerates twenty
different kinds of charities, and this preamble has in modern
times been referred to, both in this country and in England,
as containing all the charities which are entitled to the aid of
a court of equity as such, except, perhaps, some which are considered as falling within the spirit and meaning of the enumeration.

The cases of dedication have been regarded in Ohio as involving the same principle as the cases. of charity, and this
identity of principle has been often recognised in this court.
It is said by the counsel for the plaintiff that a dedication
is founded on an estoppel against claiming property which
has been dedicated, while a charity presumes a grant. But
whether it be called. an estoppel or a preumed grant is quite
immaterial; the result is the same, and the principle of favor
to the object -is the same, and the trust in both cases is preserved without a legal grantee on precisely the same ground
of favor in equity. A grantee with warranty, whose grantor
had no title at the time of conveyance, takes by estoppel the
benefit of any subsequent purchase of the title by the war-rantor. But if there were no grantee, the estoppel would not
pass the title any more than any other mode of passing title.
There must be a grantee in whose favor an estoppel can operate, unless it be for public, pious, or charitable uses. Estoppel is a distinct mode of acquiring title. But it does not in

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.8

489-

Perinet al. v. Carey el al.

any manner affect the question whether a grantee is necessary
to a valid transfer of title.
The courts, therefore, are entirely correct in regarding pub-lic, pious, and charitable uses, in States where the statute of
Elizabeth is'not in force, as falling under one and thesame
rule, and entitled to the same favor in a court of chancery.
And even in England, where the statute of Elizabeth was in
force, dedications have from time immemorial been protected
and preserved with equal favor as charities. This circumstance does, of itself, furnish a strong argument in favor of the
original jurisdiction of the court of chancery over charities.
All these purposes are of public interest, and for that reason
have ever been regarded as entitled to especial favor. They
all stand upon the same principle, and it is' now too late to
dispute that all gifts for public, pious, or charitable purposes
are entitled to peculiar favor in courts of equity.
We will now examine some of the cases which have been
decided in Ohio, and we claim that those cases show conclusively that all the doctrined in favor of charities which have
been adopted anywhere in this country, whether by this court
or any State court, have been e'ptertained and freely adopted,
without the slightest hesitation .or doubt, in. Ohio. This is
what should be expected of Ohio, from its origin and history,
as we have shown it.
Another consideration would lead to the same expectation.
Ohio, though the oldest of the Northwestern States, is young,
and comparatively destitute'of those public benefactions which
'come from the growth, in wealth and civilization, of a prosperous country. Neither'Ohio nor any of the Western States
could afford to reject any of those rare bounties, which, like
angels' visits, are few and far between' in a young country,
whose wealth is far more in hope and prospect than in present
enjoyment.
"
be found: a
to
not
is
there
that
say
safely
therefore
We may
decision or a dictum*. n hny Western State, not only which is
not friendly to charities, but which does not sustain the most
liberal doctrines as to the original chaucery jurisdiction over
charitable bequests; and that there has never been a case-

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

known in the West of a trust for any charitable object so uncertain that it has not been sustained. The Western courts
have not waited for an English statute to c6untenance them
in carrying the good and noble purposes of such of their citizens as have remembered the poor and the young and ignorant in the disposition of their surplus wealth.
And even in all the Southern States, if we except Louisiana,
which has a code peculiar to itself, charities are upheld liberally and steadily,
In this remark we do not include Virginia, as to whose
present position on the subject we shall have some remarks
before closing.
But if we commence with North Carolina, and pass to South
Carolina, and to Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi, we shall
find that in each and all of those States their supreme courts
have spoken out decidedly in favor of charities. If we then
come up to Tennessee, and on to Kentucky, we find some of
the most able and satisfactory opinions expressed on the subject, all in favor of the most beneficent principles of charity.
The Arkansas courts have taken -the same ground on the subject; and Missouri we are happy to be able now to add to the
list. And in all these States which' have been now named, it
is not only true that the conclusion has been in favor of charities, but there is not to be found a dictum or a decision in their
jurisprudence adverse to charities, or expressing doubt or hesitation on the subject.
It is not a matter of surprise, therefore, that the very learned
and experienced counsel for the plaintiff should not resort to
the courts of Ohio in their attempt to overthrow this bequest.
Indeed, the senior counsel for the plaintiff has already had
experience of the way in which all Ohio courts regard objects
of charity, and how it cures defects of legal title, and supplies
trustees in aid of a charity, especially an educational charity;
and how it has never suffered an opportunity to pass in which
a charitable donation is involved, however remotely, but it
has shown its unqualified favor to its support and the carrying it fully into effect, without ever expressing the slightest
doubt of its original jurisdiction over the whole subject. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

enforcement and preservation of charities has prevailed over
all idiosyncracies of judges- on all the benches of the West,
and of all the other common-law States except Virginia and
Maryland.
The couns.el then commented on the following cases:
Brown v. Manning, 6 0. R. R., 298; decided in 1834.
Le Clere v. Gallipolis, 7 0., Ist.pt., 217; decided in 1835
Lessee of Bryant v. McCaudless, 7 0. R., 2d pt., 135.
Morgan v. Leslie, Wright's Supreme Court Reports, 144.
Webb v. Moler, 8.0. R., 548.
Trustees of McIntyre Poor School v. the Zanesville Canal
and Manufacturing Company, 9 0. R., 203; decided in
1839.
Miles v. Fisher, 10 0. R., 1.
Ohio v. Guilford, 15 0. R., 593; 18 0. R., 600.
Zanesville Canal and Manufacturing Company v. the City
of Zanesville; 20 O. R., 483.
Urmey's Executors v. Wooden, 10.S. R., 160; decided
in 1853.
Williams v. the First Presbyterian Society of Cincinnati;
10. S. R., 378.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants here were the complainants in the- court
below.
The object of their bill is to set aside the devises and bequests in the will of Charles McMicken to the city of Cincinnati, in trust for the foundation and maifitenaniee of two col.
"
leges.
The testator says: "Having long cherished the desire to
found an institdtion where white boys and girls may be
taught, not only a knowledge of their duty to their Creator
and their fellow men, but also receive the benefit of a sound,
thorough, and practical English education, and'such as might
fit them for the active duties of life, as well as instruction in all
the higher branches of knowledge, except denominational
theology' to the extent that the same are no*v or may be
hereafter taught in. any of the secalar colleges or universities

SUPREME COURT.
Pern et aL. v. Carey et al.

of the highest grade in the country, I feel grateful to God that
through His kind providence I have been sufficiently favored
to gratify the wish of my heart. I therefore give, devise, and
bequeath to the city of Cincinnati, and its successors, for the
purpose of building, establishing, and maintaining, as. far as
practicable, after my decease, two colleges fo*r the education
of boys and girls, all the following real and personal estate,
in trust forever, to wit:" describing the property in nine
clauses of the thirty-first article of the will.
He then proceeds to declare that none of the real estate
devised, whether -improved 'or otherwise, or which the city
may purchase for the benefit of the colleges, should at any
timebe sold, but that the buildings upon -any part of it should
be kept in rephir out of the revenues of his estate. In the
event, however, of dilapidation, fire, or other cause, or if it
shall be deemed expedient to have a larger income, he directs
houses to be taken down, and that they are to be rebuilt out
of the income of his estate. He further authorizes purchases
to be made of other pi'operty, buildings to be put up on his
Nacant lots, and designates a part of the eastern boundary of
the grounds devoted to the college for the boysfor the erecion of boarding houses for the accommodation of the students,
from which a revenue may be derived.' The testator then declares where the colleges shall be-located, that there might be
a separation between that for the boys and that for the girls.There are other particulars under thiis article of the will which
we need not recite, as they have no bearing upon the controversy made by the bill. Passing over the 33d article of the
,will for the same- reason, the next article in the will is a direction that the Holy Bible of the" Protestant version, as contained in the Old. and New Testaments, shall be used as a
book of instruction in the colleges. Next, it is declared that
in all applications for admission to the colleges, that preference
should be given "to any and all of the testator's relations and
descendants, to all and any of his legatees and their descendants,
and to Max MeMicken and his descendants." Then he directs:
"If, after the organization and establishment of the institution,"
and the admission of as many pupils a5 in the discretion of

DECELBER TERMIN,

1860.

Pern el al. v. Carey et al.

the city have been received, there shall remain a sufficient surplus of funds, that the same shall be applied to making additional buildings, and to the support'of poor white male and female orphans, neither of whose parents are.living, &c., &c., preferehce to be given to. my relations and collateral descendants,
&c., &c.; that they were to receive a sound English education,,
&6., &c.; and afterwards, directions are given as to the mode
of receiving such poor white male and female orphans, and the
privileges to be allowed under certain circumstances. The
testator, in the thirty-fourth article of his vvill, declares that
"the establishment of.the regulations necessary to carry out the
objects of' 7hy endowment I leave to the wisdom and discretion of the.
corporate authorities*ofthe city of Cincinnati,who shall-have power
lo appoint directors to said institution." The last article of the
-will relates to the devises and bequests to the city, and directions as to paying the accounts of the trust. The testator
then nominates executors, and they are the appellees in this
appeal.
This statement has been made, that the devises and bequets
of the testator may be fully disclosed, and the merit of themas a charitable use may be fully understood.
Our first observation is, that it was his intention to establish
primarily two colleges for boys and girls, and then a third for
the support of poor white male and female orphans, neither
of whose parents were living, and who were without -any
means of support, who were to receive a sound English education. This-third school was to be founded by applying to
the purpose the surplus funds which might remain after the
complete organ'ization of the colleges. (36th article ofthe will.)
The testator anticipated thAt there would be such a "surplus,
as he left it in the discretion of the city to determine the
number of the pupils who were to be admitted to the colleges.
We muist then -keep in mind the thirty-first and thirty-sixth
articles of the will in considering it, though they are but contingently connected by Ihe happening of a surplus in the way
just mefitioned.. For, now, if the first is subject to a failure
as a gift for charitable purposes, the devises and bequests.may
be good under the second..... Our attention, however, will be

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

chiefly /iHen to the thirty-first section and its clauses, as
under that it was principally argued by counsel.
The learned sergeant, Sir Francis Moore,- who drew the
statute of 43 Elizabeth, chapter 4, says, in his exposition of it:
"As in all other grants, so in a gift to a charitable use, four
things are principally to be considered: 1. The ability of the
donor. 2. The capacity of the donee. 3. The instrument or
means whereby it is given. 4. The thing itself which is or
may be given to a charitable use." And then, by way of caution to donors, he says: "There are five things which cannot
be granted to such a use: 1. Things that yield' no profit. 2.
Things that are incident to others, and inseparable. 3. Possibilities of interest. 4. Conditions-meaning that such things
are from their nature insusceptible of serving such a purpose;" and then be adds the 5th: "Copyholds, if in any
way prejudicial to the lord." We shall not consider them
numerically, but both seem to be the natural way to discuss
Iuch a gift, when its validity is disputed. We shall follow it
,u those particulars as briefly as we can.
:No question is made, however, in this case, as to the execution of the will, nor as to the capacity of the devisor. It is
insisted, though,'that the devises and bequests to the donee,
the city of Cincinnati, are void, because the city has not the
capacity to take them, and also that they create a perpetuity
from being inalienable, which is contrary to law.
Charity, in a legal sense, is rather a matter of description
than of definition; and the word perpetuity in law is only
determined by the circumstances of such cases. But for the
purposes of this case, the objection to the validity of the charity on account of its perpetuity, we will place under Mr. Sander's'definition in his Essay upon Uses and Trusts, 196: "A
perpetuity may be defined to be a future limitation, restraining the owner of the estate from aliening the fee of the property, discharged of such future use or estate, before the event
is deterf-hined or the period is arrived when such future use or
estate is to arise. If that event or period be within the bounds
prescribed by law, it is not a perpetuity." It is then a limitation upon the jus disponendi of property, upon the common-aw

DECEMBER TiP'M, 1860.

495

Perin el al. v. Carey et al.

right of every man to dispose of his land "t6 any other private man
at his own discretion." And one class of those limitations is,
technically termed alienation in mortmain, and to charitable
uses. Alienation in niortmain, in -its primary signification,
is an alienation of lands or tenements to any corporation, aggregate, ecclesiastical, or temporal, the consequence of which
in former times was, that by allowing lands to become vested
in objects endued with perpetuity of duration, the lords were
deprived of eseheats and other feudal profits, and the general
policy of the common law, which[favored the free circulation of property, was frunstrated,although it is true that at the common law the
power oj purchasinglands was incident to every corporation. The
effect of these statutes deprived every corporation in England,
spiritual or-secular, from acquiring, either by purchase or gift,
real property of any description, without a general license from
the Crown enabling it to hold lands in mortmain, or a special
license in reference to any particular acquisition. These restralnts were subsequently relaxed in many particulars, including gifts to a corporation for purposes of education. 'But
"
this case does not require us to particularize them; our orI yphrpose for having alluded to statutes of mortmain being to
show, from the view taken of them from an early day by the
courts in England, that devises to corporations, which generally

cannot take lands under a will; were held good when made in
favor, of charities, and that such gifts, from the purposes to
which they were to be applied, and the ownership to
which
they are subjected, have had the protection of courts of equity
to prevent any alienation of them on the part of the person or'
body interested with-the offices of giving then\ effect; and
that in all such cases land has been decreed by qourts of equity
to be practically inalienable, or that a perpetuity of them exists in corporations when they are'charitable gifts. Tillam's
case, Duke, 80, 375; Mayor of Bristol v. Whitton, 1633,
Duke, 81, 37T; Mayor of Reading v. Lane, 1601, Duke, 81, 361;
Lewis on Perpetuity, 684; 1 Macnaghten and S. Gordon, 460;
Chart. Hospital v. Granger; Griffin v. Graham, 1 Hawks, 130;
State v. Girard, 2 Ired. Eq. R., 210. The objection that the
devises and bequests create a perpetuity cannot be maintained

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.
/

unless 'they are forbidden by the law of Ohio. And if a perpetuity was forbidden, the charitable trust would not fail, but
vould be held good and carried out in equity.
We were told that the first and second sections of the 13th
article of the Constitution, in connection with the legislation
of the State under them, prevent an estate in perpetuity from
being madein Ohio. And for showing the bearing of them
upon this case, we were referred to an act of Ohio to restrain
the entailment of real estates. 2 Swan, sees. 355-6.
We are unable to see any fair connection between them.
The first and second sections of the 13th article of the Constitution were, that the General Assembly shall pass no special
act conferring corporate powers. See. 2. Corporations may
be formed under general laws, but all such may from time to
time be altered or repealed-thatis, though they may be formed
under general laws, that the Legislature may alter or repeal
them. That by the provision they meant to retain their legislative powers to give larger powers than a corporation might
have had, to reform them in any particular that might become
necessary, that of the violation of a contract excepted. The
act to restrict the entailment of real estates obviously applies
to individuals exclusively, and not-at -all to' corporations, and
especially to such of them as may take. and hold charitable
gifts in perpetuity.
The first act passed under the Constitution of 1851, relating
to corporations, was to enable the trustees of colleges, academies, universities, and other institutions for promoting education, to become bodies corporate. We will give it in its terms,
for nothing in the legislationof that State can show more satisfactorily than it does that public spirit there is in harmony with,
and fully up to, that of the age upon the subject of education.
The language of the 1st section is, that any number of persons,
not less than five, desiring to establish a college, university,
or other institution for the purpose of promoting education,
ieligion or morality, agriculture tund the fine arts, may, by
complying with the provisions of the act, become a body corporate and politic, with perpetual succession, and may assume
a corporate name, by which they may sue and be sued, plead

-

DROEEMBR TE M. 1860.
Fern et aL.

497

Cdrey et aL.

and be impleaded in all courts of law and equity; mayhrve
a corporate seal, and the same alter or break at pleasure; may
hohl all kinds of estate, real, personal, and mixed,, which they may
acquire by purchase, donation, devise, or otherwise, necessary to
accomplish the objects of the corporation; and further, the
trustees of any university, college, or academy may hold in
trust any property devised, or bequeathed, "or donated" to such
institution, upon any specific trust consistent with the objects
of said corporation; also, when any number of persons shall
have procured by subscription,, donation, or devise, purchase,
or otherwise, the sum of five hundred dollars, for the purpose
of establishing an academy, they may become a body corporate, &c., &c., and do all acts and things necessary for the
promotion of education and the general interests of such aead',
emy. Time and the occasion will not permit us to give more'
of this liberal and enlightened statute, and of the supplemental acts passed in August, 1852, and March, 1853. 2 Swan;
secs. 195, 196.
There is' nothing in either of them in any way interfering
with 'the power of before existing corporations, to become the
trustees of charitable devises and bequests for education, and
to hold them in perpetuity. There is rather a disposition
manifested to enlarge and confirm their power to do so, and
to give to other corporations under the act certainty anrd security in the administration of such trusts. The Legislature has
succeeded in giving to corporations,- f r the promotion of education, what the learned gentlemen who brought this bill said
were the requisites of a corporation: lawful existence; artificial
capacity and perpetuity of existence; nud, we add, the unquestioned enjoyment of all these privileges, which courts of equity
have said for more thaii two hundred years they were entitled
to, in the construction of devises and gifts for charity, and fot
the administration of them.
It was conceded in the argument, that the trusts in this will
fall within the description of public trusts or charitable usEs.:
as recognised in England since the statute of 43 Elizabeth,. c.
4, notwithstanding that statute is not-in force in Ohio, and.
*ur opinion, never was, as we shall show presently.
voL. xxXv.
32

498

SU' PREME COURT.
Perin et a!. v. Carey et al.

Charities had their origin in the great command, to love
thy neighbor as thyself. But when the 'Emperor Constantine
permitted his subjects to bequeath their property to the church,
it was soon abused; so much so, that afterwards, when it became too common to give land to religious uses, consistently
with the free circulation of property, the supreme authority
of every nation in Europe, where Christianity prevailed, found
it necessary to limit such devises by statutes of mortmain.
In France, by the ancient constitutions of that kingdom,
churches, communities, chapters, colleges, convents, &c., were
not permitted to acquire or hold immoveable property. Dumoulin sur 1st art., 51 De la Con., Paris. This incapacity
after a long time was relaxed, and they were allowed to hold
by. license of the King.
In Spain, the communities mentioned before could neither
acquire nor hold property, unless by authority of the Sovereign;
but in England,corporationshad the capacity to take property by the
common law. Co. Litt., 99. They were-rendered incapable of
purchasing v ithout the King's license by a succession of statutes from Magna Charta, 9 Henry 3, to 9 Geo. 2.
They are known as the statutes of mortmain; that is, as it
*was the privilege of any one, before such statute restrained it,
to leave his property of every kind by testament to whom he
pleased, and for such purposes, charitable or otherwise, as he
chose; and the will was, in every particular, administered
according to the testator's intentions, sometimes by the courts of
common law, and at others-by a court in chancery, as may be seen
from the cases in Duke and other writers upon charities. The
question, then, under such a condition of the law in Ohio,
where there was no statute of mortmain, cannot be in this
case, whether chancery had such a jurisdiction, or whether
Ohio had adopted in whole or in part the common law, but
whether Ohio, in the construction of her judicial system, did
not mean to give to those courts which were to have equity
jurisdiction cognizance of trusts made by wills for charitable
uses, as well as of other trusts; and whether the judges in
Ohio have not uniformly entertained it upon that principle.
We cannot be mistaken in the conclusion that they have done

DECEMIBER TERM, 1860.

499

.Perinet al. v. Carey el al.

so from the cases cited on both sides in the argument of this
case, the larger number of which we have verified by examination.
And we are more confirmed in what has just been said, for
the English statutes of mortmain were never in England sup
posed to have been meant to extend to her colonies, and were
never in force in those of them in America which becamiie independent States, but by legislative adoption.
First, it will be observed in all commentaries upon those
statutes they are termed local or political laws, meant to suppress a public mischief and abuse in England. The statute of
43 Elizabeth is entitled, "An act to redress the misemployment of lands, goods, and stocks of money, heretofore given to
charitable uses." The mode and manner for the enforcement
of it in any particular did not 6xist in any one of the English
colonies. There was not in either of them a Lord Keeper or
Lord Chancellor, or any corresponding officer to mature the
regulations enjoined by the act for its enforcement. There
were not in the colonies any abuses to redress for the misemployment of lands, goods, or money heretofore given to charitable uses; further, there were not then in any one of them
those religious institutions which the monarchs of Europe
deemed it politic to restrain from holding lands.
Tile statute, after beginning with a statement of the abuses
to be controlled, declares that for the redress of them it shall
be the duty of the Lord Chancellor or Lord Keeper of the
great seal for the time being, and for the Chancellor of the
Dutchy of Lancaster for the time being, to award commissions, &c., into all or any part of the realm, for the purpose of
executing the, &c., statute, and the realm or dngdom of England, in statutory parlance, as well in the time of Elizabeth as
now, "meant the kingdom over which her municipal laws or
the common law had jurisdiction, and did not include either
Wales, Scotland, or Ireland, or any other part of the King's
dominions, except the territory.of England only." 1 Blackstone's Commentaries, sec. 4, p. 93, Wendell.
And in the sane section, after having enumerated those
dominions which had been subjected by statute or otherwis,

SUPREME COURT.
Pcrine al. v. Carey et al.

to the laws of England, and such as had not been, all being
adjacent to England, Blackstone says, our more distant plantations in America or elsewhere are also in some respects subject to English law. But that must be understood with very
many and very great restrictions. Such colonies carry with
them only so much of the English law as is applicable to their
own situation and the condition of an infant colony; such..for
instance, as the general rules of inheritance and of protection
from personal injuries. Pp. 107, 108 Miayginal. But we are
not left to inferences to establish the locality of the operation
of the statutes of mortmain to England, and that they never
had any force in the colonies. The whole subject in all its
generality was ably discussed and decided in the high court
of chancery in England some forty years since. In that case,
2 Merivale, 143, the Attorney General v. Stewart, the question
being whether the statute of mortmain, 9 Geo. I, extended
to the island of Grenada, in the West Indies, it was ruled that
it did not, and that none of the English mortmain acts were
of force in the colonies.
Without, then, a particular enactment for such purpose, the
statute of 43 Elizabeth, c. 4, could never lave been in force in
Ohio. Nor do we think it to be a point of judicial uncertainty
there, for we cannot find a decision in the courts of Ohio
directly declaring that it ever was.
The law was adopted in terms from the statute of Virginia
by the Governor and judges of the Territory. 1 Chase, 190.
Whatever may have been its validity in other rspects, it id
niot comprehend the statute of Elizabeth. For though it was
a remedial statute to correct abuses, it was a restraining statute of the common-law right of every man to dispose of his
.property by will as he pleased: The law taken from Virginia
for Ohio made statutes and acts of Parliament in aid of the
common law, wiich were of a general nature, and not local to
that kingdom, of force in Ohio. It was not in aid of the common law, but being restrictive of it, it should have, as to the
places assigned for its operati'on, a strict interpretation.'
But whether we are right or not so, in respect to the la-v
adopted from Virginia, and passed in the Territorial Legisla.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Perin et al. v. Carey el al.

ture of Ohio, it is certain that in the year 1806 it was repealed;
and that since the statute of Elizabeth has had no force in
Ohio as a statute, though the judges of that State, without any
assumption, have applied its principles to all cases of charitable devises as a part of chancery jurisdiction. It certainly was7
riglt in them and a duty to carry out the charitable intentions
of a testator by the same principles that his will was executed
in every other respect, when the Legislature was silent in
respect to such devises, or had given no other rule concerning
them.
No more was done by them in Ohio than was done in every
other State in this Union where the statute of Elizabeth had
not
been adopted by legislative enactment.
But
in justice to the subject we cannot leave it without
saying that original chancery jurisdiction over charities existed
in .England, and was exercised there, before the statute of Elizabeth was passed; also, that it has now become an established
principle of American law, that courts of chancery will sustain
and protect such a gift, devise, or bequest, or dedication of
property to public charitable uses, provided. the same is consistent with local laws and public policy, where the object.of
the gift is a dedication specific and capable of being carried
into effect according to the intentions of the donor. In confirmation of this we refer to thc-cases collected in Angell and
Ames upon Corporations, private and aggregate, 6th edition,
182, 177, and from pages 170 to 180, inclusive.
And this court, in Vidal et al. V Mayor of Philadelphia et
al., reviewed its opinion to the contrary of what has just been
said in the case of the Baptist Association v. Hart's executors,
and admitted, -whatever doubts had been expressed in that
opinion, that they had been removed by later and more satisfactory sources of information.
And in Vidal's case the court went on to say :-It may, therefore, be considered as settled, that chancery has an original
and necessary jurisdiction in respect to devises and bequests
in trust to persons competent to take for charitable purposes,
when the general*object is specific and certaiji, and not contrary to any positive rule of law.- 2 Kent"s Comm., 287, 288,

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

4 edition; Gibson v. McCall, 1 Rich. S. C., 174; Att'y General v. Jolly, ibid., 176, N.; Sohun v. Wardens and Trustees
of St. Paul's Church, 12 Mot. Mass. R., 250; Beall v. Fox,
Georgia R., 404; Miller v. Chittenden, 2 Clarke, Ia.; and
Williams v. William, Opinion by Judge Denio, 4 Selden, 525.
We also refer to the opinion of Mr. Justice Baldwin, which
led the way upon this question of jurisdiction in the United
States in the will of Sarah Zane in pamphlet; Cir. Co. in
Pennsylvania, April term, 1833; and to Mr. Justice Story's
Essay in the Appendix to 3 Peters's S. C. R., 481 to 502, inclusive.
The same results have been announced by the decisions
ill Ohio. The Trustees of the McIntyre Poor School r. the
Zanesville Canal and Manufacturing Co., 9 Ohio R., 203,

does so. Lane, C. J., avoiding the discussion of the extent
of chancery jurisdiction over charities independently of the
statute, says: But one of the earliest claims of every socibl
community upon its law-givers is an adequate protection to its
property and institutions, which subserve public uses, or are
devoted to its elevation, &e.; and, in a proper case, the courts
of one State might be driven into the recognition of some principle analogous to that contained in the statute of Elizabeth
as a necessary element of our jurisprudence. But without
reference to these considerations, where a trust is clearly defiled, and a trustee exists capable of holding the property and
executing the trust, it has never been doubted that chancery
has jurisdiction over it by its own inherent authority, not
derived from the statute, nor resulting from its functions as
parens patrice. The same ruling was made afterwards in 15
Ohio R., 593, and in 18 Ohio I., 500- and the main point in
botli of them could not have been decided without maintaining the jurisdiction in chancery over charitable, uses, independently of the statute of Elizabeth. The -same may lxc
assum~d of the case growing out of the will in 20 Ohio 1.,
483. Indeed, it was assumed that no cLse in Ohio of a charitable trust has been judicially maintained, or could have been
valid under the universal admission that the statute of the 43
Elizabeth, c. 4, was not in firce in Ohio, unless the courts

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

503

Peria'etal. v. Carey et al.

there had acted from the conviction that in such cases chancery had ajurisdiction over them by its own authority.
We shall now consider the objections which were made by
the counsel for the appellants to the validity of the dcvises
and bequests of Mr. fc.1icken, that the city of Cincinnati has
not the capacity to take them and to execute the trusts of the
will, and that no other trustee can be appoiifted.
In ourview, the answers to them from the opposing -ounsel
were decisive. No incapacity of the city of Cincinnati to take
in this i:stance can be inferred from its charter.. It has the
power to acquire, to hold, and possess, real and persotal property, &c., &c., and to exercise such other powers and to have
such other privileges-as are incident to municipal corporations
of a like character and degree, not inconsistent with this act
or the general laws of the State. Swan, 960. It was admitted in the argument, that the section just read confers power
upon the city to acquire and hold real estate for the legitimate
objects of the city. These objects are enumerated in many
particulars directly connected with its powers to govern the
city, and in the nineteen sections following that cited there is
not a sentence or word from which an inference can be made
thmt the Legislature meant to deprive the city of Cincinnati
from taking and administering charitable trusts. Indeed,
such a course would have been inconsistent with the Legislature's caution in its enactments under the Constitution of
1851. It would be doiiig great injustice to the Legislature
even to suppose that it meant, in passing an act for the government of corporations, under the provisions of the Constitution, that idesigned to encroach upon that of the judiciary,
or to alter the whole power of chancery in respect to charitable
uses, and the long-established practice of corporations, private
and municipal, to receive then as trustees, and to administer
tleni according to the intention of donors. So far from any
intention to interfere with such a privilege in the city of Cincinnati, we infer from previous and subsequent legislation
that it was to have an important agency in carrying out the
6th article of the Constitution in respect to education. We
allude to the act for the better organization and classification

SUPREME COURT.
_Perin et at. v. Carey et al.

of the common schools in Cincinnati and Dayton, passed in
the year 1846, (Ohio Local Laws,, 91,) and to that of the 2Tthi
January, 1853, both now in force. In the first, the trustees
and visiters of common schools in the city of Cinciinauti, with
the consent of the city council, have the power tQ establish
and maintain out of any funds under the control of the trustees and visiters such other grades of schools than those
already established as they may deem expedient for such purpose. Further, by the 68th section of the State School Law,
Swan, 852, passed in January, 1856, power is given to township boards of education, and their successors in office, to take
and hold in trust for the use of central or high schools,.or sub:
district schools, in the township, any grant or donation, or
bequests of money, or other personal property, to be applied
to the support of such public schools: Again, in Ohio Laws,
33, March 26, 1856, it is declared that whenever any one gives
lands or -money for the endowment of a school or academy,
not previously established, and shall not provide for the maiiagement of it., that the Court of Common Pleas shall appoint
trustees with corporate powers. That act provides also for
the management of charities whet the founders have not
given directions; and' another act, Swan, 193, 1856, provides
how'colleges may be incorporated by their own act, and how
trustees of an endowment may also become a corporation by
their own act. These acts have been cited to show that Ohio,
in her legislation, has made municipal corporations trustees
for charity devises and bequests, and that the management
of them is a duty. They also prove that the privilege to take
them is one given and imposed by law.
After a close examination of all the legislation of Ohio relating to corporations, and its system of education, we have not
been able to detect any sentence or word going to show any
intent to alter the law as it stood before the adoption of tte
Constitution of 1851, in respect to a corporation receiving and
taking, either by testament or donation, property for a charity,
or to prevent them from having trustees for the execution of it
according to the intention of the donor. To take such .privileges from them can only be done by statute expressly, and

DEOEMBER TERM, 1860.

.50.5

rn et.aL v. Carey el al.

not by any implication by statutes, or from any number .of
sections in statutes analogous to the subject, containing directions for the management of corporations. "The law is,
that where the corporation has a legal capacity to take real
or personal estate,_ then it may take and hld it upon trust
in the same manner and to the same extent as private persons
may do. It is true that if the trust be repugnant or inconsistent with the proper purposes for which it was created, that
may furnish a good reason why it may not be compelled to
execute it. In such a case, the trust itself being good, will be
executed under the authority of a court of-eqfity. Neither is
there any positive objectioni in point of law, to a corporation
taking property upon trust not strictly within the scope of the
'direct purposes of its institutions, but collater,6 to them, as
for the benefit of a stranger or another corporation. But if
the purposes of the trust be germain to the objects of the
corporation, if they relate to matters which will promote and
perfect these objects, if they tend to the suppression of vice
and immorality, to the advancement of the public health and
order, and to the promotion of trade, industry, and happiness,
where is the law to be found which prohibits the corporation
from taking the devise upon such trust in a State where the
statutes of mortmain do not exist, the corporation itself havinig
an estate as well by devise as otherwise? We know of no atuthority which inculcates such a doctrine, or prohibits the execution of such trusts, even tliough the act of incorporation may
have for its main objects mere civil and municipal governimnt
and powers. 2 Iov., 190. This court announced tile same
principle agai-u in the eltse of McDonough r. Murdoch, 15"
How., 367, with other and new illustrationus, and with direct
reference to tile capacity of a corporation to take such trusts,
if within its general objects, or such as were collateral or inci-

dental to its main purpose. There is nothing in the Ohio
statute of wills to prevent corporations from taking by dvise.
Much was also said in the argumient denying the legality of
the trusts, in consequence of the uncertainity of the benefici-

aries, and because the relatives of the testator were to have
the preference. As to the first, white boy and gir ls ake aW

SUPREME COURT.
Perin et al. v. Carey et al.

distinctive a status of a class who are to be the first beneficiaries of the trust, and the words in the 36th section, that "if
any surplus shall remain, &c., it shall be api lied to the support of poor white male and'female orphans, neither of whose
parents are living, and who are without any means of support," make as certain a description as could have been expressed.
It seems to us, now, that the objection relative to the condition of the beneficiaries is at variance with the established
primary rule in respect to a charity, not only with reference to the statute of 43 Elizabeth, c. 4, but to a charity
under the common law. The answer is, that a charity is a
gift to a general public use, which extends to the rich, as well
as to the poor. Jones v. Williams, Amb., c. 651. Generally, devises and bequests having for their object establishments of learning are considered as given to charitable uses,
under the statute of Elizabeth, Attorney General v. Earl of
Lansdale; but that does not make a devise good to a college
for purposes not of a collegiate character, intended chiefly to
gratify the vanity of the.testator. And we cannot be mistaken,
that a devise to a corporation in trust for any person is good,
and will be effectuated 'n equity. 1 Bro. Oh. Cas., 81. And
z-fortiori, a devise to a charitable corporation, in trust for any
other charitable use, would be good. All property held for
public purposes is held as a charitable use, in the legal sense
of the term charity. Law Library, vol. 80, p. 116, Grant on
Corporations.
We will not pursue the subject further; for, without having
discussed either of the six objections made in the bill of the
complainants, or the points made by counsel in support of the
demurrer to' the bill, numerically, both have been under our
examination; for all were appropriately in the argument of
the cause, and in this opinion we meant to decide all of them,
and have done so.
We cannot announce them more expressively than they
were urged in argument:
1. The doctrines founded upon the statute of 43 Eliza,
beth, c. 4, in relation to charitable trusts to corporations,

DECEIMBER TERM, 1860.
Pern el al. v. Carey et al.

either municipal or private, have.been adopted by the courts
of equity in Ohio, but not by express legislation; nor was t]wi
necessay to give courts of equity in Ohio that jurisdiction.
2. The English statutes of mortinain were never in force in
the English colonies; and if they were ever considered to be
so in the State of Ohio, it must have been from that resolu-tion by the Governor and judges in her territorial condition;
and if so, they were repealed by the act of 1806.
3.The city of Cinciniati as a corporation is capable of
taking in trust devises and bequests for charitable uses, and
can take and administer the devises and bequests in the will
of C. McMicken.
4. Those devises and bequests are charities, in a legal sense,
and are valid in equity, and may be enforced iii equity by its
jurisdiction in such matters without the intervention of legislation by the State of Ohio.
5. McMicken's direction, in section 32 of his *ill, that the
real estate devised should not be alienated, makes no perpetuity in the sense forbidden by the law, but only a perpetuity allowed by law and equity in the cases of charitable
trusts.
6. There is no uncertainty in the devises and bequests as to

the beneficiaries of his intention; and his preference of particular persons, as to who should be pupils in the colleges
which he meant to found, was a lawful exercise of his rightfulpower to make the devises and bequests.
7. The disposition which he makes of airy surplus after the
complete organization of the colleges is a good charitable use
for poor whife male and female orplians.
8. Legislation of Ohio upon the subject of corporations, by
the act of April 9, 1852, does not stand in the way of carrying into effect the devises and bequests of the will.
This cause was argued on both sides with such learniug and
ability, that we feel it to be only right to the profession to
acknowledge the assistance given to us in fi)rimlin(r our conclusions; and our only regret is, that it ,liould necessarily
have extended this opinion to a greater length than we wished
it to be.

SUPREME COURT..
Belchrer et al. v. Linm.

We shall direct the affirmance of the decree dismissing the
bill by the court below.

WniAm

I.

BELCHER AND CHARLES BELCHER, PLAINTIFFS IN

ERROR, V.

WILLAM

A-

LINN.

Where there was a controversy with respect to the amount of duties properly
payable upon an importation, the collector and importers entered into an
agreement to submit samples of the article to the board of general appraisers
to be convened at New York, and to abide by their appraisement in the same
manner and to the same extent as if it had been made by merchant appraiser,
regularly appointed according to law.
The article imported was called in the invoice "concentrated molassesI" which
is syrup boiled down to a denser consistency and thus evaporating the water
particles, until the point of crystalization is reached.
The appraisers decided that this article was, in point of fact, a species of green
sugar, and that the invoice and entry were erroneous, not only with respect to
the value affixed to the article, but also as to its description. Green sugar
was subject to an export duty, but molasses was not. They therefore added,
as appeared by their report, a sum equal to the amount of that duty, although
none such bad been paid. But the statement anueled to the report ,&-'scribed
the addition mrde thus, "to add export duty on."
Held:
1.That in the absence of fraud, the decision of the appraisers as to the character of the article and the dutiable value of the importations was final
and conclusive.
-2.That the report and statement must be construed together, and that by their
true construction they showed, irrespective of the parol testimony, that the addition was made, not as an export duty, but to bring up the invoice valuation
to the actual market val:e of the merchandise at the place of exportation.
3. That ifthe words "to add export duty on" were of doubtful signification,
and must be separately considered, then the case would be one where parol
testimony would be admissible, so that, in either point of view, there was no
error in the action of the Circuit Court.
4. That the importer was not entitled to recover on account of the leakage while
the merchandise was detained for the purpose of the appraisement.
5.That the assessment of duties is properly made upon the quantity of merchandise eatt'red at the custom-house.

Tuis case was brought up by xWrit of error from the Circuit
Court of the Inited States for the district .of Missouri.
Tc facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

