SUPREME COURT.
Reddall v. Bryan et al.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.

The record of this case does not show that any question
arose or was decided by the State court, which this court has'
authority to re-examine by virtue of the 25th section of the
Judiciary act.
Without entering into a tedious analysis of' the 6ase, it is
sufficient to state, that the chief or only question in it was,
whether an act of Assembly of Kentucky, authorizing an executor to sell the real estate of minors, was a valid exercise of
power by the Legislature.
. The counsel for plaintiff objected to the admission of the
deed made. in pursuance of such authority, "because said act
and supplement were unconstitutional and void."
This objection was very properly construed by the court as
having reference to the validity of the act of the Legislature
of Kentucky, not as contrary to any provision of the Constitution of the United States, but as raising the question whether
the Legislature had a power under the Constitution of that
State, by general or special enactment, to authorize the sale
of real estate of infants. The court decided that it had such
power; and ifit had, it is abundantly evident that there is no
article nor clause in the Constitution of the United States which
could interfere with it.
Let the writ of error be dismissed.

WILLIA

0.

REDDALL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. WILLIAM H.

BRYAN, ALFRED L. RIvEs, WILLIAM H. PILES, JOHN CAMERON, JAMES PAINE, CHARLES HUTCHINSON,
AND JOHN

MOORE.
Where a decree of the Court of Appeals of Maryland affirmed the decree of the
court below and remanded the case to that court, this is not such a'final decree as will give jurisdiction over the case to this court.
The decree of the court below was merely an interlocutory order; and although
State laws allow an appeal to State courts from such an order, this cannot en
large the jurisdiction of this court given by act of Congress.
Moreover, the judgment of the State court was in favor of the authority set uF

DECEMIBER{ TERM, 1860.
Red

U v. Bryan et.al

'under the laws*of the United States, and therefore no appeal lies to-this court
under the 25th section of the Judiciary act.'

THIS case was brolaght up fron the Court of Appeals. of
Maryland by a writ of error issued U'nde'r the 25th section of
the Judiciary act,
The case is stated in the'opinion of the court, and is reported in 14th Miryland Reports, pages 470, 471.
It was argued by Mr. John S. Tjson and Mr. Mayer for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Stanton (Attorney General) for
the defendants.
kMi. ChiefJustice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.'
This is a writ of error to revise the decree of the Court of
Appeals of Maryland, affirrning-a decree of the Cireuit.Court
for Montgomery county, in that State0 .
-This case, as it appe'ars on the record, is this:
The bill in equity of the plaintiff-in error, filed in the Cir-.
cuit Court for Montgomery countyin Maryland, alleges. thtt
the defehdants have trespassedou land of his

in

Montgoniery

'county, in Maryland, digging..it up abd .recting abutments
ind structures for an. aqueduct, and so brbking-up and divid:
ing the land as -to render it incapable of tillage, ,1ndinfli.ting
great and irreparable damage upon the complainant; aid that
the defendants mditate;fqr -com'pleting the aqueduct, still
furtlier damage, of the same aggravated character, to the land,
by digging t6 great Aepths of twelve to fifteen feet, and atdther points-raising embankments and building walls, and
in coiducting through .the land a large -and constant stream
of water, for the sole use of the aqueduct.
The bill further states that the defendants claim to thus
act under authority of the Executive of the United States, unsanctioned, however, as the bill alleges, by any action of -Congress, and for supplying water to the cities of Washington and
Georgetown, and under color of. aD-act of the Legislature of
Maryland, (session of the year 185*, .hapter 179,)'purporting
to authorize tute-United States "to purchase land in Maryland

S1JPREME COURT.
Reddall v. Bryan et d.

for so supplying water, through construction of dams, reser.
voirs, buildings, and other works," and in case of sale not
being agreed by owners, tQ allow the United States to adversely appropriate to herself the land, by condemnation and
on valuation, to be effected in manner as provided in case of
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company's occasions for land
and materials for that company's works.
The bill also avers that no such purchase was authorized by
Congress, nor any attempt ever made on behalf of the United
States toward an agreement for the purchase of complainant's
lands, and insists that these pretended sanctions of the act of
the Maryland Legislature, and of the United States Executive,
are repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and of
Maryland, and that the land is thus intruded on for no public
purpose of Maryland, nor for any connected with the United
States as such, and of a Federal character, nor even so declared
in the Maryland act of Legislature, or in any action of Congress. And the bill prays injunction, to prevent the trespass
and encroachments complained of from being carried oil.
The Circuit Court refused the injunction, and from the order
of refusal, the plaintiff appealed to the Court of Appeals.
That court affirmed the order of the Circuit Court and
remanded the case.
. From this decision of the Court of Appehls, the case is here
upon writ of error.
It is evident, from this statement, that the appeal to this
court cannot be sustained. In the first place, the decree of
the Court of Appeals merely affirms the decree of the inferior
court, and remands the case. It is, therefore, still pending,
and there is no final decree. And although the State of
Maryland in her own courts may authorize an appeal from
such an interlocutory order, it cannot affect the jurisdiction
of this, which is governed by the act of Congress, and that act
authorizes the writ of error only in cases where there is a final
decree or judgment.
Iii the second place, we do not see in the plaintiff's bill any
right claimed under the laws of the United States. On the
contrary, the claim is against the rights asserted by the United

DE-0-EMBER TERM, 1860.
Sheirburn v. Cordova et al.

States, and exercised by the agents of the Government under
its authority; and even if there had been a final decree by the
dismissal of the bill, in addition to the refusal of the injunction, we perceive no ground upon which the writ of error
could be maintained under the 25th section of the act of 1789.
It is therefore dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

JOSEPH A. SHEIRBURN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JACOB IDE CORDOVA AND OTHERS.
By a statute 6f Texas, actions of ejectment, trespass to try title, &c., can, be
maintained upon certificates for bead rights or other equitable titles.
But this court has decided that, in the courts of the United States, suits for the
recovery of lands can only be maintained upon a legal title.
A plaintiff in the court below, who had nothing more than an incipient equity,
could not therefore maintain his action.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the western district of Texas.
The bill of exceptions contained the evidence of the title of
Sheirburn, the plaintiff, when the defendants objected to the
admissibility of said locations and entries because the same
were vague, uncertain, and indefinite, and also because surveys thereon were not returned to the General Land Office;
but the court overruled said objections, and the defendants
excepted thereto. The plaintiffs here closed.
The objection made in this court, viz: that the plaintiff
could not maintain the suit upon a head right in the court of
the United States, did not appear to have been made upon
the trial; but the question seemed to turn upon the validity
of the title of the defendants, which was sustained; and upon
that ruling the plaintiff brought the-case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Hale for the plaintiff in error, and Mr
Paschal for the defendants, both on printed arguments.
Mr. Paschalthus brought forward the objection upon which
the judgment of this court turned:

