DECEM3BER TERM, 1860.

267

Foote -v. Egery et al.

the decisions having the character that are mentionel -in the
extract we have made from the opinion of the Supreme Court
of Texas as having a binding force -almost equivalent to positive law. Such being our conclusion in respect to this grant,
we must sanction the'judgment of the District Court that denies to it validity.
Judgment affirmed.

HENRY S. FOOTE, PLAINT IFF IN ERROR, V. CYRUS W. EGERY
AND JOSEPH F. SMITH.
The decision in the preceding case of League v. Egery and others concludes
this also.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the eastern district of Texas.
It was similar to the preceding case with respect to the
principal question involved, and was argued by the same
counsel.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff, claimed in the District Court two leagues and
ole-half of land in the county of Refugio, in the State of Texas,
which were in the possession of the defendants. The defendant answered the claim by asserting title under grants from
the State of Texas, and by the operation of the statutes of limitation.
The plaintiff Xnintained his claim by producing a grant to
James Power and James Hewetson, issued under the authority
of the State of Coahuila and Texas, in the year 1834, upon a
contract of sale of a certain'quantity of'lands in the colony of,
Power and Hewetson, situate within the littoral or coast
leagues. In deriving his title under these grantees, the plaintiff produced a deed, or an agreement for a conveyance, from

Hewetson to Power and Walker; this paper was rejected as
testimony by the court. ' Walker, this vendee, died in 1836.

SUPREME COURT.
Greer et al. v. Nezes et al.

being a citizen of, and resident in, the United States. His
brother, also a citizen of the United States, succeeded to his
estate, and in the year 1887 conveyed his interest to a person
under whom the plaintiff claims.
Three questions were made upon the trial in' reference to
the validity of the plaintiff's title: 1st. Whether the State of
Coahuila and Texas, .in the year 1829, or in the year 1884,
could sell and convey land to a colonist within the littoral or
coast leagues, without the consent or approbation of the Central Government of Mexico. 2d. W'hether the paper executed
by Hlewetson to Power and Walker was a conveyance of the
land, or merely an agreement to convey. 3d. Whether in
1836, Walker, a citizen of the United States, could inherit
land in Texas, from one who was also a citizen of, and a resident in, the United States. The decision of either of these
questions in favor of the defendants is fatal to the plaintiff's
right to recover.
The first of these questions has been determined by this
court in the case of League v. Egery and others in the negative. This decision is in accordance with the decision of the
District Court. whose judgment is consequently affirmed.

JOHN GREER AND OTHERS, PLAINrTIFS IN ERROR; V. S. M.
MEZES, MARIA DE LA SOLIDAD ORTEGA

DE ARGUELLO, AxD

JOSE RAMON ARGUELLO.
Where the plaintiffs in ejectment showed a legal title to land in California under
a patent from the United States and A survey under their authority, it was
proper in the court below to refuse to admit testimony offered by the defend.
ants to show that the survey was incorrect, the defendants claiming under a
merely equitable title:
Where the defendants pleaded severally the general issue, it was proper for the
court below to instruct the jury to bring in a general verdict against all those
who had not shown that they were-in possessi6n of separate parcels.
The mode of proceeding by petition does not alter the lawtrof ejctsnent under
the old system of pleading.

Tuns case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

