DECEMBER TERM, 186U.

247

Poww7wtan Steamboat,Co. v. A ppomattox Railroad Co.

and that he had made the survey in accordance with'such cus
torn."

The grantee was bound to abide by the marked line from
to 1; but the other lines'must be governed by a legal rule,
which a local custom cannot change. Should this custom be
recognised as law, governing surveys, it must prevail in private surveys, in cases of sales of land, when the purchaser who
bought a certain number of acres might, by surface meagure
across a mountain, lose a large portion of the land he had .pai&
for. And such would- be the case with this, grantee, were he
restricted to surface measure; whereas, by the terms of his
patent, the Government granted to the extent of lines approximating to horizontal measurement. How far the 'act of 'limitations will affect the plaintiff's title, will depend on'ithe fadt
whether Evans's coal bank falls within the boundary of the
patent sued on, as it is not claimed that, the other possession
at a different place on grant No. 22,261, and for which trespass the recovery was had, was seven years old when the suit
was brought.
It is ordered that the judgment below be reversed, and the
cause remanded for anothwer trial to be had therein.
.

THE POWHATAN STEAMBOAT COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROU,,V.
THE APPOMATTOX RAILROAD COMPANY.
In the code of Virginia, chapter 196, are the following sections, viz:
"SEc. 15. Ifra free person, on a Sabbath day, be found laboring at any trade or
calling, or employ his apprentices, servants, or slaves, in laboor other business, except in household or other work of necessity or charity, he shall forfeit
$10 for each offence; every day any servaiit, Apprentice, or slave, is so employed, constituting a distinct offence.
SEc. 17. No forfeiture shall be incurred under the preceding section for the
transportation on Sunday of the mail, or of passengers and their baggage.
And the said forfeiture shall not be incurred by any person who conscientiously believes that the seventh day of the week ought to be observed as a
sabbath, and actually refrains from allsecular business andtlabor on thatdhy;
;rovided. he does not compel a slave, apprentice, or. servant not of his belief,

SUPREME COURT.
Powhalan Steamboat Co. v. Appomattox Railroad Co.
to do secular work or business on Sunday, and does not, on that day, disturb
any other person."
The acts prohibitOd by these sections are no doubt unlawful, but the following
- case does not fall within their operation.
The Powhatan Steamboat Company were the owners of a line of steamers em.
ployed in the transportation of goods from Baltimore to Richmond, stopping
at City Point to deliver goods, which were to be carried thence to Petersburg
by the Appomattox Railroad Company. The steamboat company gave receipts for the goods when shipped, undertaking to deliver them at Petersburg,
paying the railroad company a portion of the freight.
Leaving Baltimore on Saturday, one of the steamers arrived at City Point on
Sunday morning and delivered the goods intended for Petersburg, which were
received and locked up in a warehouse, belonging to the railroad company, to
remain until the next day. But in the after part of the day,the warehouse
and goods were destroyed by fire. The steamboat company were sued by the
shippers and compelled to pay the value of the goods to recoup which they
*nowy sued the railroad company.
The instructions of the cobrt below to the jury were erroneou§,'viz that if they
found that the goods were delivered on a Sundayi tnder a contract between
the parties, express or implied, that they might be received and accepted on
that day, and were destroyed .by fire on the day on which they were delivered
and received, their verdict should be for the defendants.
The steamboat company and railroad company each" worked for themselves.
The railroad company, having receivec the goods into their warehouse, were
bound to keep them in safe custody, as carriers for hire, although they could
not transport them to Petersburg until the next day. To take care of them
on the Sabbath day was a work of necessity, and therefore not unlawful.
The cause of action in this case is'not fonded upon any executory promise between the parties, touching either the landing and. depositing of the goods or
•the opening or closing of the warehouse, but it is based upon the non performance of the duty which arose after those acts had been performed.
If the action was one to recover a compensation for the labor of landing and de
positing the goods, or to recover damages for refusal to comply with the agree.
ment to open and close the warehouse, the rule of law invoked by the defendants would apply.

Tuis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for-the eastern district of Virginia.
The nature of the case and rulings of the court below are
fully explained in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Schley, upon a brief subrmtted by
himself and Mr. Jaynes, for the plaintiffs in error, and by Mr.
".obinsonfor the defendants.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

1 249

Powhatan Steamboat Co. v. Appomaltox Raffroad Co.

The aiguments upon both sides contained examinations of
the cases in this country and England with respect to the o'peration of Sunday lavs; but the opinion of the court being
that this case does not come within the scope of the Virginia
code, the insertion of these arguments is not considered necessary. It will be seen that the court consider the transactionbetween the two companies as having been closed by the recepti. n of the goods by the railroad company; after which
period it became their duty to keep them safely, which did
not amount to a violation of the Virginia code.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the' opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the eastern district of Virginia. All of the questions presented for decision in this case arise upon the instructions given by the court to the jury, but a-brief reference to
the pleadings and. evidence will be necessary, in order that
the precise nature of those questions may be clearly and.fully
understood.
It was An. action on the case, and the declaration contained
three counts, which are set forth at large in the transcript.
Among other things,, the plaintiffs alleged, in the first count,
that the defendants were common carriers for hire; that they,
the plaintiffs, at the special instance and request'of the defendants, on the twenty-siixth day of June, 1853, -at City'Point, in
the State of Virginia, caused ceitain goods and merchandise
to be delivered to the defendants, as such carriers, to be by,
them transported from- the place of delivery to Petersburgi
in the same State; and that the defendants, in consideration
thereof, and of certain hire and reward to be paid them therefor, undertook and-promised safely and securely to. carry and
convey the goods and merchandise to the place of destination,
and there to deliver the sanel; and the complaint is, that the
defendants, not regarding their promise and -undertaking in
that behalf, so conducted themselves, as such carriers, that
the goods and merchandise, through their negligence 'and
carelessness, were wholly lost to the plaintiffs. To the whole
declaration the defendants pleaded that they never undertook

SUPREME COURT.
Powhatan Steamboat Co.. Appomattox Railroad Co.

and promised as the plaintiffs had thereof alleged against
thorn, and upon that issue the parties went to trial.
From the evidence in the case, it substantially appears that
the plaintiffs were the owners of a weekly line of steamers,
employed in the regular and stated transportation of goods
and merchandise between the city of Baltimore, in the State
of Maryland, and the city of Richmond, in the State of Virginia. Their steamboats, on the trip each way, were accustomed to stop at the intermediate place called City Point, on
James river, for the purpose of landing goods to be sent to
Petersburg, and also for the purpose of receiving other goods
arriving from the same place to be transported to either terminus of the steamboat route. Defendants were a railroad
company, and were also engaged in the transportation of
goods and merchandise over their railroad, extending from
City Point to Petersburg, in the same State. For many years
there had been an arrangement and contract between the parties, whereby goods and merchandise destined for transportation to the latter place were to be received by the plaintiffs in
Baltimore, carried in their steamers to City Point, and there
delivered to the defendants, to be by them transported over
their railroad to the place of destination. Receipts for the
goods were given by the plaintiffs in Baltimore, promising to
deliver the same to the consignees at Petersburg, where the
plaintiffs had an agent, who collected the entire freight money,
and paid.over one-fourth part of the amount to the defendants. When the steamers arrived at City Point, the goods
were landed, and deposited in the warehouse of the defendants, which was situated on the wharf adjacent to the railroad.
According to the regular course of the transportation, one of
the steamboats of the plaintiffs left Baltimore every Saturday
afternoon, arrived at City Point about noon pn Sunday, and
there such of her cargo as was destined for Petersburg was
landed and deposited in the warehouse of the defindr.nts, and
the steamer on the same day proceeded on her voyage to the
place of her-destination. Goods ao landed and deposited remained in the warehouse until the following day, because the
defendants run no mercindise train on Sundays. Usually

* DECEM1ER TERM, 1860.

251

Po~ataa&eamboat Co. v. Appomattox Railroad Co.

the warehouse was opened on the occasion, and afterwards
tlosed by the agent of the defendants; but the whole labor of
landing and depositing the goods, except fhe opening and
closing of the warehouse, was performed by the plaintiffs.
Pursuant to the regular course of the transportation, one of
the steamers of the plain.tiffs arrived at City Point on Sunday,
the twenty-sixth day of June, 1853, about noon, with the
goods in controversy oif board. On the arrival of the steamer
at the wharf, the goods, being destined for Petersburg, were
lanled and deposited in the warehouse, and the evidence
shows that the whole labor of landing and depositing them
was performed by the plaintiffs, except that the agent of the
defendants unlocked and opened the warehouse for that purpose, and afterwards closed. it, as he had been accustomed to
do on former occasions. After the goods had been so deposited,
the steamer proceeded on her voyage up the river, and on the
same day the warehouse and all -the goods were destroyed by
fire. Suit was brought against these plaintiffs by the shipper
of the goods, and payment was recovered against them for a
sum exceeding twelve thousand dollars, which they had to
pay. Evidence'was then introduced by the defendants, tending to show that the goods were deposited in their warehouse
for the convenience hnd-accommodation of the plaintiffs, upon
the agreement and understanding that the goods should remain there until the followiTlig morning, and be at the risk of
the plaintiffs. Under the instructions of the court, the -jury
returned their verdict in favor of the defendants, and the plaintiffs excepted to the instruction. It is to the concluding portion only of the instruction that the Plaintiffs now object, and
for that reason the preceding part of it is omitted. Having
assumed that state of the case in the introductory part of thc
instruction-which the evidence adduced by the plaintiffi
tended to prove, and which, if found to be true, and the good,

had been deposited on an ordina'y working day, would hav(
entitled the plaintiffs to recover-the jury were substantialI 3
told by the presiding justice, in the concluding portion of the
instruction, that notwithstanding the facts so assumed, still,
if they found from the evidence that the goods weie delivered

SUPREME COURT.
Powhatan Steamboat Co.v. Appomattox Rairoad Co.

on a Sunday, under a contract between the parties, exprees oy
implied, that they might le received and accepted on that day,
and were destroyed by fire on the day on which they were delivered and received, to wit, on Sunday, the twenty-sixth day
of June, 1858, then theirverdict should be for the-defendants.
Had the goods arrived and been .deposited in the warehouse
on an ordinary working day, the preceding part of the instruction assumed that the evidence in the case wodild authorize a
finding in favor of the plaintiff, and the" principal question is,
whether the rights -of the parties were varied by the fat that
the goods were'landed and deposited on a Sunday. It fs in.
sisted by the defendants that it does vary their rights, especially as the goods were destroyed accidentally on the day they
were delivered and received. To support that theory, they
refer, in the first place, to the sixteenth and geventeenth sections of the code. of Virginia. By the sixteenth section it is
provided, among other things, that "if a free person on a Sabbath day be found laboring at any trade or calling, or employ
his apprentices, servants, or slaves, in labor or other business,
except- in household or other work of necessity or charity, he
shall forfeit ten dollars for each offence;" and by the seventeenth ection it is provided, that no forfeiture shall be incurred under the preceding section for the transporting on
Sunday of the mail, or of passengers and their baggage. Most
of the States have laws forbidding any worldly labor or business within their jurisdiction on the Lord's day, commonly
called Sunday, except works of necessity or charity. Those
laws were borrowed substantialy from similar regulations in
the parent country, and in some of the States were adopted at
a very early period in the history of the Colonial Governments.
Statutes of the description mentioned usually contain an express prohibition against sucJl labor; but we are inclined tadopt the early rule upon the subject, that where the statntc
inflicts-a penalty for doing an act, although the. act itself is
not expressly prohibited, yet to do the act is unlawful, because
it cannot 'be. supposed that the Legislature intended that a
penalty should be inflicted for a lawful act. -Adopting that
rule of construction, it must he assumed that alt labor "at any

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.:
PowhatanSteamboat Co. v. Appomattox Railroad Co.

trade or calling on a Sabbath day, except in household or other
work of necessity or charity," is prohibited in the State of
Virginia by the sixteenth section of the code already cited.
But the defendants do not attempt to maintain that the contract between the plaintiffs and the shipper of the goods, for
the transportation of the same from Baltimore to Petersburg,
falls within that implied prohibition, or that the voyage of the
steamer from Baltimore to Richmond was illegal.. As the evidence shows, the steamer left Baltimore on Saturday, the day
previous .to the fire which consumed the warehouse and the
goods, and it is very properly-conceded by'the defendants that
she might lawfully, under the circumstailces, proceed on her
voyageto her place of destination' notwithstanding the fact
that,*in so doing, she had to sail on "a Sabbath day;" and if
so, it clearly follows that she might. stop at any intermediate
place on the route. " Transportation of the goods, therefore, so
far as they were Carried in the steamer, was a lawful act, and, in
effect, it is conceded to have been so by the defendants. Merchandise trains Were not run. by the defendants on Sundays;
and, of couroe, neither the contract of the shipper nor the arrangement between .these parties contemplated that the goods
would be carried oyer.th*e railroad on that day. Shippers made
their contracts with the. plainfiffs for the transportation of the
goods over the whole route, from the place of departure to the
place of destination, wholly irrespective of the circumstances
which might afterwards attend the transfer of the goods from
the steamer to the defendants, and without any knowledge, so
far as appears, whether it would be accomplished on a Sundy,
or bn an ordinary working day.
When the shipper had delivered the goods to the plaintiffs,
the contract between him and them was completed, and it is
self-evident that it was one to which the Sunday laws of Virginia have no application whatever. All such contracts were
made by the plaintiffs, but they were made for the separate
,benefit of the defendants, as well as themselves, and the arrangement between these pai'ties had respect to the apportionment of the service to be performed in carrying out the contract made with the sipper, and the division of the freight

SUPREME COURT.
Powhatan Steamboat Co. v. Appomattox Railroad Co.

money to be received for the entire service. Each' party
worked for himself, and not for the other, and the compensation for that service was to be derived from the shipper of the
goods- Neither party promised to pay' the other anything,
but each was to receive a proportion of the freight money
equal to the proportion of the service the arrangement between
the parties required him to perform. Plaintiffs made the contract with the shippers in their own name, received the goods
at Baltimore, transported them to City Point, and on the
arrival, of the steamer there, landed the goods and deposited
them in the warehouse of the-defendants. On the other hand,
the defendants furnished the warehouse, opened and closed it
on the occasion, took the custody of the goods until the following morning, and then transported them over the railroad
to. the place of destination, and delivered them to the consignees. After the goods were delivered to the consignees,
the agent of the plaintiffs collected the entire freight money,
and'paid over to the defendants such portion of it-as belonged
to them under the arrangement. Merchants sending goods
knew only the plaintiffs in the entire transportation; but, as
between these parties, each performed a separate service for
himself, and had no other claim for compensation than his
proportion of freight money. 1Iad the goods been lost at sea
through the negligence of the plaintiffs, it is clear that the
defendants would not have been answerable either to the shippers or to the plaintiffs, because the defendants had no interest
in the steamer, and the arrangement between the parties did
not contemplate that they should be responsible for her navigation. Shippers, however, had a right to proceed against the
plaintiff, although the loss bad occurred while the goods
were in the custody-of the defendants, because their contract
with -the plaintiffs covered the whole route; and as between
them and the defendants, the latter were but the agents of the
plaintiffs. Accordingly, the shippers recovered judgment
against the plaintiffs, and clearly the defendants are answerable over, unless it is shown that the case is one where courts
of justice will not interfere to enforce the contract. It is insisted -by the plaintiffs ihat the labor of lhnding hnd depositing

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Powhatan eamoat Co.v. Appomattoz Railroad o.

the goods was a w6rk of necessity, within the meaning of, the
exception contained in the statute; butin"theview we have
taken of the case, it will not be necessary to decide that qugstion-at the present time..
Suppose it be admitted that the plaintiffs violated the Sunday law in landing the goods and depositing- them, and that
defendants also violated'the' same law in opening and closing
the warehouse on the occa'sion; still the admission will -not
benefit the defendants; for the reason that the cause of action
in this case is nbt founded upon 'any executory promise between the parties; touchihg either the landing and d6positing
of the goods or the opening and closing of the warehouse,
but-it is based upon the non-performance of the duty which
arose 'after those acts had been performed: . If the action wai
one to recover a compensation for the labor 'of landing and
depositing the goods, or to recover'damages for a refusal to
comply with the agreement to open and close the warehouse,
the rule of law invoked by the defendants' would apply.
Granting, however, for the sake of the argument, that those
acts of labor-fall within the prohibition of the statute, still
their perf6rmaince did not have the effect to transfer the general property in the goods to the defendants, nor to release or
discharge thenm from the subsequent obligations which devolved upon them as common carriers for hire. Safe custody
is as much the duty of the carrier as due transport and right
delivery; and although the defendants were forbidden to
transport the goods over the railroad, or to deliver the same
on "a Sabbath day," yet they might safely and securely keep
such as were in their custody, and it was their duty so to do.
Irrespective of the' Sundar law, the plaintiffs'cbuld maintain
no action against the defendants for the service they had performed in landing, and depositing the goods, for the best of
all reasons; that in performing it .they had worked for themselves,'and not for the defendAnts. Nothing, therefore, can
be more certain than the fact that the claim in this case is not
founded 'upon any executory promise rucessarily connected
with those supposed illegal -acts.' On the contrary, the real
claim ig grounded on ihe obligations which the law imposet

-

SUPREME COURT.
Powhatan ,Steamboat Co. v. Appornattox Railroad Co.

on the defendants safely and securely to keep,- convey, and
deliver the goods, and upon their subsequent negligence and
carelessness, whereby the goods were lost. To take care of
the goods on "a Sabbath day," and safely and securely keep
them, after the goods were received, was a work of necessity,
and therefore was not unlawful, even on the theory assumed
by the defendants, and the defendants were not expected to
convey or deliver the goods until the followIng day. On the
theory assumed, the defendants might have refused to open
the warehouse, or to allow the goods to be deposited; and if
they had done so, no action could have been maintained
against them for the refusal. But they elected to .do otherwise, and suffered the plaintiffs to deposit the goods; and
when the warehouse was closed, all the supposed illegal acts
were fully performed.
Whatever contract or arrangement existed between the parties upon that subject had then been fully executed, and those
who had been employed in landing and depositing the goods,
as well as the agent of the defendants, who had opened and
closed the warehouse, if the acts were illegal, had respectively
become liable to the penalty which the law inflicts for such a
violation of its mandate. That penalty is a fine often dollars;
but there is no authority in any court to declare the godds
forfeited, nor do we perceive any just ground for holding that
the general property in the goods was thereby changed. Unless the goods be considered as forfeited, or it be held that the
property became vested in the defendants, it is difficult to see
,any reason wliy the plaintiffs ought not to recover in this suit,
even admitting that the acts of landing and depositing the
goods, and of opening and closing the warehouse, were within
the prohibition of the stathte.
Subsequent custody of the goods was certainly pot within
that prohibition; and if not, then the law imposed the obligation upon the defendants to keep the goods safely and
securely until the fbilowitig morning, and afterwards to transport them over the railroad to the place of destination, and
deliver them to the consignees. To assume the contrary,
would be~to admit that a carrier, accepting goods to be trans-

'DECEMBER TERM. 1860.
Gue v.. Tide Water Canal Co.

ported on an ordinary working day, may Set off the fact that
the labor of depositing the goods in his warehouse was performed on "a Sabbath day," against all the subsequent obligations which the law would otherwise impose upon him with.
respect to the goods. Such a rule of law, if acknowledged by
courts of justice, and carried into effect, would amount to a
forfeiture of the goods, so far as the shipper is coficerned, as
its practical operation would be to allow the carrier, if-he saw
fit, voluntarily to destroy the goods, or to appropriate them to
his own use.
Upon a careful examination of the numerous auth6rities
bearing upon the question, the better opinion, we thi'-j, is,
that inasmuch as the subsequent custody of the goods was not
unlawful, that the obligations of the defendants, under the dircumstances of this case, were not varied by the fact thaf the*
goods-were deposited in their warehouse by their consent on
"a Sabbath day." Great injustice would result from any different rule, and' although the precise question has -seldom or
never been presented for decision, yet we think the analogies
of the law fully sustain the rule here laid down. For these
reasons we are of the opinion that the instruction given to the
jury was erroneous. The judgment of the Circuit Court is
therefore reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to
issue a new venire.

ROBET GuB, APPELLANT, V. TUE Ti)E WAT~m CANAL ComPANY.
A corporate franchise to take tolls on a canal cannot be seized and sold under a
fieri facias, unless authorized by a statute 6f the State which granted the act
of incorporation.
Neither can the lands or works essential to the enjoyment of the franchise be
separated from it and sold under afi.fa., so as to destroy or impair the value
of the franchise.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, sitting in equity, for the district of Maryland.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
VOL. XXIV.

17

