SUPREME COURT.
Phillips v. Page.

ble. Every case must be governed by its circumstances; and
as these are as diversified as the names of the parties, the
court must exercise a sound discretion on the subject. Wiilst
parties should not be subjected to expense and inconvenience
in litigating matters in which they have no interest, multiplicity of suits shotild be avoided by uniting in one bill all who
have an interest in the principal matter in controversy, though
the interests may have arisen under distinct contracts.
We think the statute of the State, and the municipal corporation of Toledo, authorize the assessment of the sums on
the lots in question, and that the judgment in the Circuit
Court must be affirmed.

WLLIAM

H.

PHILLIPS, PLAINTIF IN ERROR, V. GEORGE PAGE.

In a patent taken out by Page for certain improvements in the construction of
the portable circular saw-mill, he claimed the manner of affixing and guiding
the circular saw, by allowing end play to its shaft, in combination with the
means of guiding it (the saw) by friction rollers, embracing it.near its periphery, so as to leave its centre entirely unchecked laterally.
An ifistruction by the court below, that the claim was as stated above, but adding
"in a saw-mill capable of being applied to the sawing of ordinary logs," was
erroneous.
Although the improvements of the patentee may have enabled the machine to
be applied to the purpose of sawing logs, when before it was applied only to
the purpose of sawing light materials, such as shingles, and blinds for windows, yet there is nothing in the patent to distinguish the new parts of the
machine from the old, or to state those parts which lie had invented, so as to
enable the machine to saw logs.
The patent law does not require the defendant to give iiotice of the time whet
any person may have possessed the knowledge or use of the invention in ques
tion, but only of the name of the person and of his place of residence, and the
place where it has been used.
An instruction of the court below, making the time material, was therefore erroneous.

THis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit

Court of the United States for the northern district of INew
York.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Philzps v. Page.

The principal question related to the construction of Page's
patent for improvements in the construction of a portable circular saw-mill, the circumstances of which are stated in the
opinion of the court. Under the instructions of the court
below, the jury found a verdict for Page, with $50 damages,
and $466.14 costs, The bills of exception are stated in the
opinion of the court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by Mr. Keller for
the plaintiff in error, and Mr. 1?everdy Johnson and Mr. Latrobe
for the defendant.
The arguments upon the points in the case are omitted, as
not being likely to interest the profession generally.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the northern
district of New York.
. The suit was brought in the court below by,Page, the defendant in error, to recover damages for the infringement of
a patent for certain improvements in the construction of the
portable circular saw-mill. After describing minutely the
different parts, and manner of constructing the machine, with
drawings annexed, and also the use and operation of the re-.
spective parts, the patentee sets forth the particular portion
of the construction which he claims as his own, as follows:
; "I claim the manner of affixing and guiding the circular saw,
by allowing end-play to its shaft, in combination with the means of
guiding it (the saw) by friction rollers, embracing it nearits periphery,
so as to leave its centre entirely unchecked laterally. I do not claim
the use of friction rollers, embracing and guiding the edge of
a circular saw, as these have been previously used for that
purpose; but I limit ry claima -to their use, in combination uith a
saw having free lateralplay at its centre."
Evidence was given on the part of the defendant, in the
course of the trial, tending to prove that, long before the time
of granting the plaintiff's patent, and before the date of his
invention, machines for sawing shingles from short blocks of

166

SUPREME COME
Phillips v. Page.

timber, and sawing lath and blinds for windows, with circular
saws, varying ii size from ten to thirty inches in diameter,
had been in 'public. use; in which machines the circular sw
was puided by means of guide-pins, embracing it (the saw)
near the periphery, and its shaft having end-play, and being
entirely unchecked laterally; but it did not appear that such
machities had been used in a saw-mill for sawing timber, or
in a mill, or a machine of a size or character adapted to ihe
sawing of ordinary logs, or other large unsawed timbers.
When thesevidence closed, the defendant's counsel prayed
the court to charge the jury, that according to the true construction of the patent, the claim is for the manner of affixing
and guiding the circular saw, by allowing end-play to its shaft,
in combination with the means of guiding it by friction rollers, embracing it near its .periphery, so as to leave its centre
entirely unchecked laterally.
But the court refused so to charge, and instructed the jury
that the claim was limited to the manner of affixing and guid
ing the circular saw, by allowing end-play to its shaft, in coinbination with the means of gui~ing it by friction rollers,
embracing it near its periphery, so as to leave its centre unchecked laterally, in a saw-mill capable of being applied to the
sawing qf ordinary logs.
And in refusing another prayer, the court charged, that in
order to defeat the plaintiff's patent by the use of prior machines of this construction, they must have been machines for
the purposes of sawing iu mills of a size and character adapted
to the sawing of ordinary logs.
There can be no doubt but that the improvements of the
patentee in the manner of constructing the portable circular
saw-mill described in his specification were designed to adapt
it to the sawing of logs in a saw-mill, and which could be
carried from place to place, and put into operation by the use
of horse-power; and it may very well be, if he had set up in
his claim the improvements or particular changes in the construction of the old machine, so as to enable him to adapt it to
the new use, and one to which the old had not and could not
have been applied without these changes, the patent might

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

167

Phlip v. Page.

have been sustained.

The utility is not q'uestioned, and, for

aught there appears in the case, such improvements 'were
before unknown, and the circular saw-mill for sawing logs the
first put in successful operation.
But no such claim is set up by the patentee; nor does he
distinguish in the description of the parts of the machine, nor
in any other way, the old from the new, or those parts which
- he has-invented or added in its adaptation to the use of sawing
logs, not before found in the old machine for sawing shingles,
blinds for windows, and other light 'naterials. On the contrary, his claim is for the precise organization of the old ma- chine, namely, the manner of affixing and guiding the circular
saw, by allowing end-play to its shaft, in combination with
the means of guiding it by friction rollers, embracing it near
to its periphery, so as to leave its centre entirely unchecked
laterally. There is hothing new in -this combination. It had
long been known ahd used in the circular saw for sawing timbers of smaller dimensions than an ordinary saw-log. Nor
does the enlargement ofthe organization of the machine compared with the old one, (the same being five feet in diameter,
and the other parts corresponding,) afford any grdund, in the
sense 'of the patent law, for a patedit. This is done every day
by the ordinary mechanic in making a working machine from
the patent model.
The patentee in the present case must carry his improvements farther, in order-to reach invention; he must contrive
the means of adapting the enlarged old organization. to.the
new use, namely, the sawing of saw-logs, and claim, not the
old parts, but the new device, by which he has produed.the
new results.
The learned judge, by interpolating the new purpose -ofthe
improvement, namely, the sawing of logs, not only inserted
what was not specified in the claim; but, if it had been, it
would not have helped out the difficulty, as it was in effect,
upon the construction given, simply applying an old organization to a new-use, which is not a patentable subject.
The defect here is both In the specification and in the claim

SUPREME COURT.
Phillips v. Page.

The former does not distinguish the new parts from the old,
nor is there anything in the specification by which they can
be distinguished; and the latter, instead of claiming the old
parts, should have excluded them, and claimed the new, by
which the old were adapted to the new use, producing the new
result.
We are also of opinion the court below erred in rejecting
the evidence of the witness as to the prior knowledge and use
of the improvement of the patentee.
The 15th section of the patent law provides, that when the
defendant relies in his defence on the fact of a previous invention, knowledge, or use of the thing patented, he shall give
notice of the names and places of residence of those whom he
intends to prove possessed the prior knowledge, and where
the same was used.
In this case, the notice stated that Hiram Davis, who resides
at Fitchburg, Massachusetts, had knowledge of the said improvement, and of the use thereof at that place, during the
years 1836, 1837, 1838, &c., and that he resided there.
The court, on objection, refused to allow a witness to prove
the use of the improvement by Davis prior to the year 1836 at
Fitchburg, holding that the notice limited it within that time.
Notice of the time when the person possessed the knowledge or use of the invention is not required by the act; the
name of the person, and of his place of residence, and the
place where it has been used, are sufficient.
The time, therefore, was not material; nor could it have
misled the plaintiff, as he had the name and place of residence
of the person, and also the place where the improvement had
been used.
With this information of the nature and ground of the defence, the plaintiff was in possession of all the knowledge
enabling him to make the necessary preparation to rebut that
the defendant possessed to sustain it.
Judgment reversed and venire.

