SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Frost etal. v. Frostbury Coal Co.

the defendants being in possession, and there being no proof
of the particular portions which they severally occupied or
claimed, there was no error in refusing to direct the jury to
bring in a separate verdict as to each."
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed,
with costs.
THE IESSEE OF ISAIAH

FROST AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ER-

ROR, V. THE'FROSTBURG COAL OOMPANY.

An act of the Legislature of Maryland examined whereby certain named per8ons, and such others as might be associated with them, were incorporated by
the name of the Frostburg Coal Company.
Tle defendants in this suit were made a corporation by the charter, the persons
named in it constituting tie corporate body, clothed with the powers and
privileges cofiferred upon it, and were capable of taking and holding real
estate from the beginning.
Even if it were otherwise . and some irregularities occurred in the organization
of the company, inasmuch as no act made a condition precedent to the existence of-the corporation has been omitted or its non-performance shown, a
party dealing with the company is not permitted to set up the irregularity.
The courts are bound to regard it as a corporation, so far as third persons are
concerned, until it is dissolved by a judicial proceeding on behalf of the Government that created it.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the Unit&I States for the district of Maryland.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued 'by Mr. Dadis and Mr. Shackelford for the
plaintiffs in errof, and by Mr. Price and AMr. Pearrefor the defendants.
The question being on the construction of a local chartet,
the arguments are not likely to be of general interest, and are
therefore omitted.
Mr. Justice NqELSOIN delivered the opiniou of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Coart of the United
States for the district of Maryland.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

279

Lessee of Frost et al. v. Frostburg Coal Co.

The action in the court below was an ejectment brought by
-the heirs of Isaiah Frost, to recover the possession: of a tract
of land situate in the county of Allegany, Maryland. The
defence set up was a conveyance of the land by their ancestorto the defendants. The only question in the case is, whether
or not the Frostburg Coal Company -was capable of taking
and holding Teal estate at the date of the.deed, .the 18th March,
1845.
The court charged the jury, if they found that Mechack
Frost, Isaiah Frost, Thomas J. McKaig, and William W. Mc.
Kaig, the paries named in the act of incorporation of 1845,
acdepted the charter, and proceeded to aetas a corporate bDdy
under it, by the name of the Frostburg Coal Company, opened their coal mines, transported the coal to market, borrowed money on .the credit of the company, and made large
and costly improvements on the lands in controversy, during
all which time Isaiah Frost, he .ancestor, acted as one of
the directors; and fuitther found, that the said Frost executed
and delivered to the company the deed of the 13th March,
1845, given in evidence, they must find a verdict for the defendants.-

The act of incorporation, which was passed February 24,
1845, provided that Mechack Frost, Isaiah Frost, Thomas J.
McKaig, and William W. McKaig, and stich other persons as
may be associated with them in the manner afterwards. provided, shallbe andthey are hereby incorporatedand made a body polt
iic and corporate, by the name of the _rbslbuzrg Coal Company, and
by that name shall have succession, &c., conferring the usual
corporate powers for the manufacture of iron, and mining of
coal, and for transporting the same to market; and among.
others, the power to purchase and hold all such property, real,
personal, and mixed, as the company may require for the pur*poses ,iforesaid.
The second section provided, that tle capital stock of the
company should consist of five thousand shares of one hundred dollars each, of which the lands and mines of Mech'aclc Frost, Isaiah Frost, Thomas J. McKaig, and William W.
MoKaig, on one part, and those who may associate with them

SUPREME COURT.
Lessee of Frost et al. v. Frostburg Coal Co.

and constitute the aforesaid subscription for stock, payable in
money, on the other part.
The third section provided, that the subscriptions to the
capital stock should be madeat such places, and in such manner, as should be designated by the four persons above named,
and that the shareholders of one or more shares of stock
should be members of the corporation, and entitled to one vote
for each share so held; and making the shares assignable and
transferable, as may be provided in the by-laws of the company.
The fourth section provided, that the affairs of the company
should be managed by a president and four directors, to be
chosen -by the stockholders, to serve one year", and till others
shall be. elected; and until the first election of directors shall be
held, the said Mehack Frost, Isaiah Frost, Thomas . McKaig,
and William W. McKaig, shall have full power and authority to
exercise all the corporatepowers of the said company, .c.
The fifth section provided, that a general meeting of the
stockholders should be held as soon as the company is organized, and annually thereafter, oh the first Monday of June in
each year, for the election of directors, and to consult upon
the business of the company.
On the 12th March, 1845, the associates met in pursuance
of the authority given in the third section of the act, at which
meeting the whole number of shares, constituting the capital
stock, were subscribed, and the company proceeded to the
election of th president and four directors, the number required by the charter for the ensuing year; and at the same
time, directed that the secretary should procure deeds to the
company for the lands, which should constitute part of the
capital stock. And on the 21st of the month; the board met,
and provided for the issuing of certificates of the capital stock
to each stockholder.
It was in pursuance of the resolution of the 12th March,
that the deed of Isaiah Frost, the ancestor of the lessors of the
plaintiff, W~as executed. This deed contained some four hundred and sixty-four acres of laud, which, together with several
parcels c.onveyed by Mechack Frost, another of the stockhold-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

281

-Lessee of T rost et al. v. Frostburg Coal Co.

ers, dated on the same.day, and adjoining the former tract,
embraced the coal mines of the company,,for the working of
which it was incorporated.
The company immediately commenced preparations for
opening the mines, and for transporting the coal to market, by
constructing rail anid tram roads leading into the mines, erecting buildings for the accommodation of the workmen, together
with other necessary improvements, at an expense of some
fifteen thousand dollars; also, a large amount of coal had been
taken out of the mines and sent to the market; .all of which
was done during the lifetime of Isaiah Frost, and while he
was one of the most active and efficient 'directors, and all or
nearly all of said fixtures and improvements had been made
upon -the parcel of land in question, and for which he had received stock. H-e was the largest stockholder but one in the
company, and had dealt in the stock, by pledging it for money
borrowed.
As we have already said, the main ground relied upon, on
behalf of the heirs, to avoid the deed to the defendants, is the
failure to organize under the charter, so as to constitute them
a corporation capable of taking and holding real estate. It is
supposed that there are some conditions precedent to the existence of the corporation which have not been performed,
and that the act, of its own force, did not constitute them a
corporate body. But a slight reference to the charter will
show that the position is a mistaken one. The first section
declares, that the four persons, andsuch others as may be associated with them, shall be and are hereby incorporated and
made a body politic and corporate, by the name of the Frostburg Coal Company; and then confers upon it the usual
powers belonging to a corpoiation, and among others, to purchase and hold real estate for tlhe purposes-of the company;
and in the fourth section declares, that until the first election
of directors shall be held, the four persons named shall have
full power and authority to exercise all the corporate powers
of the company. The charter took effect immediately on its
acceptance by the persons named, and the subsequent steps,
such as the subscription of the stock, procurement of the coal

SUPREME CO'URT.
lessee of Frost et al. v. Frostburg Coal Co.

lands, election of the directors, of the president and secretary,
passing by-laws, &c., were steps taken in perfecting the organization, and enabling it to use the powers and privileges conferred for the purposes for which they were granted.
It was supposed in the argument, that the words, (land such
other persons as may be associated," &c., in connection with
the four persons named in the first section, imported that
other persons must be associated with the four, before the
charter could take effect; but, if any doubt could be raised
upon the language of the first section, the fourth removes it,
as there the power and authority to exercise all the corporate
powers of the company is expressly conferred upon the four
persons, until the first election of directors. These corporate
powers are not only conferred upon the four persons named,
but are continued until their successors are appointed to take
their places. The true meaning of the words referred to in
the first section probably is, that a privilege was. intended to
be given to the company of uniting other associates with the
four in the enterprise, if they so elected,
The same observation is also applicable to the second section, which declares tbat the capital stock shall consist of 5,000
shares of one hundred dollars each, of which the lands of the
four persons named in the first section may be one part, and
those who may associate with them, and constitute the corporation by subscription for stock, payable in money, the
other. The charter does not provide that any given amount
or portion of the stock shall be in -land, or in money, and the
true construction probably is, that the whole of it may have
been payable in money.
The language of the section would seem to confer upon the
four perions the privilege of paying their shares of stock by
the conveyance of land, rather than imposing it upon them as
an obligation. This is the construction of the charter under
which the company has acted, as the subscription for the
shares is a moneyed subscription. The land was purchased
from two of the principal subscribers, by the company, at a
valuation which was. applicable to their subscriptions. They

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

283

Lessee of Frost et al. v. Fosiburg Coal Co.

would be liable to the company for the balance of their stock,
as would the other subscribers for the whole amount of theirs.
The subscription of the stock was in form for a given number of shares; but as each share was fixed by the charter at one
hundred dollars, the amount each was liable for to the -company was readily ascertained, and it is well settled that a subscription in this form is as obligatory as if it had been in money.
(14 Wend. R., 20.)
The ninth section of the charter provides, that the corpora.
tion shall be subject to all the restrictions impQsed by the genera] act of 1838, regulating incorporations for manufacturing
and mining companies. The 15th section of this act provides,
that when over four-fifths of the capital stock of the company
to which the act applies shall become concentrated, by purchase or otherwise, in the hands of less than five persons, &c.,
all the corporate powers and privileges granted shall cease and
determine. And it is insisted, that the stock of this company,
at the time of itq organization, was held in violation of this
section of the general act. Although the ninth section of the
charter subjected the company to the general act, yet the provision is to be construed as subject only, when not inconsistent with the express provisions of the charter; and in this
view, the better opinion, we think, is, that this four-fifths provision does not apply. But whether it does or not, it is unimportant to determine; for conceding that it does, a private
party cannot take advantage of the forfeiture. That is a question for the sovereign power, which may waive it, or enforce
it, at -its pleasure. (9 Wend., 382; 4 Denio, 397.)
Without pui'suing the case further, the main ground upon
which we intend to place the judgment of the court is, that
the defendants were made a corporation by the charter, the
persons named in it constituting the corporate body, clothed
with the powers and privileges conferred upon it, and were
capable of taking and holding real estate; and second, even if
it were otherwise, and some irregularities occurred in the organization of the company, inasmuch as no act made a condition precedent to the existence of the corporation has been
omitted,- or its non-performance shown, a party dealing with

SUPREME COURT.
Cleeland Insurance Co. v. Reed ef al.

the company is not permitted to set up the irregularity. The
courts are bound to regard it as a corporation, so far as third
e'ersons are concerned, until it is dissolved by a judicial proceeding on behalf of the government that created it. Angel
and Ames, sec. 774, and cases referred to.
Judgment affirmed.

'THE CLEVELAND INSURANCE COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. GEORGE
REED, JULIET S. REED, JAMES HI. ROGERS, AND THE MILWAUKIE AND Mississippi RAILROAD COMPANY.
Where a mortgagor's interest in land was sold under the bankrupt act of the
United States, the statute of limitations began to run from the time when the
petitioner was declared a bankrupt, and not from the-time when the purchaser
took a deed from the assignee in bankruptcy.
By the revised statutes of Wisconsin in 1839, it is provided in the 37th section,
that where there are concurrent remedies at *law and in equity, the remedy in
equity is barred in the same time that the remedy at law is barred. And in
the 40th section it is provided, that bills for relief in case of the existence of a
trust not cognizable by the courts of common law, and in all other cases not
herein provided for, shall be filed within ten years after the cause thereof shall
accrue, and not after that time.
Therefore, where a bill was filed for a foreclosure or sale of mbrtg'aged property,
aid the defendant had been in possession for more than ten years prior to the
filing of the bill there was no corresponding remedy at law, and the case fell
within the 40th section of the act.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill must therefore be affirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the "District Court of the United

States for the district of Wisconsin.
The bill and answers opened a wide field of discussion relating to events which had transpired many years before, and
the arguments could not be made intelligible without a minute
statement of thoge events. But as the opinion of the court
does not require that this should be done, the reporter omits
a particular narrative of these circumstances.
The case was argued in this court by Mr. 1)ooliltle for the
appellants, and by Mr. Lynde, upon a brief submitted by himself and Mr. Brown, for the appellees.

