SUPREME COURT..
Belchrer et al. v. Linm.

We shall direct the affirmance of the decree dismissing the
bill by the court below.

WniAm

I.

BELCHER AND CHARLES BELCHER, PLAINTIFFS IN

ERROR, V.

WILLAM

A-

LINN.

Where there was a controversy with respect to the amount of duties properly
payable upon an importation, the collector and importers entered into an
agreement to submit samples of the article to the board of general appraisers
to be convened at New York, and to abide by their appraisement in the same
manner and to the same extent as if it had been made by merchant appraiser,
regularly appointed according to law.
The article imported was called in the invoice "concentrated molassesI" which
is syrup boiled down to a denser consistency and thus evaporating the water
particles, until the point of crystalization is reached.
The appraisers decided that this article was, in point of fact, a species of green
sugar, and that the invoice and entry were erroneous, not only with respect to
the value affixed to the article, but also as to its description. Green sugar
was subject to an export duty, but molasses was not. They therefore added,
as appeared by their report, a sum equal to the amount of that duty, although
none such bad been paid. But the statement anueled to the report ,&-'scribed
the addition mrde thus, "to add export duty on."
Held:
1.That in the absence of fraud, the decision of the appraisers as to the character of the article and the dutiable value of the importations was final
and conclusive.
-2.That the report and statement must be construed together, and that by their
true construction they showed, irrespective of the parol testimony, that the addition was made, not as an export duty, but to bring up the invoice valuation
to the actual market val:e of the merchandise at the place of exportation.
3. That ifthe words "to add export duty on" were of doubtful signification,
and must be separately considered, then the case would be one where parol
testimony would be admissible, so that, in either point of view, there was no
error in the action of the Circuit Court.
4. That the importer was not entitled to recover on account of the leakage while
the merchandise was detained for the purpose of the appraisement.
5.That the assessment of duties is properly made upon the quantity of merchandise eatt'red at the custom-house.

Tuis case was brought up by xWrit of error from the Circuit
Court of the Inited States for the district .of Missouri.
Tc facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

D]hCEMBER TERM, 1860.

509

Belcher et al. v. Linn.
It was argued by Mr. Phillips, upon a brief filed by hi,_elff
and Mr. BRererdy Johnson, for the plaintiffs in error, and by
Mr. Stanton, upon a brief filed by Mr. Black (Attorney Gener1,) lbr the defendant.
Mr. Phillips,for the plaintiffs in error, made the following

points:
By the act 3d March, 1851, (9 Stat., 630,) it is provided
that the collector, in all importations subject to an ad valorem
duty, shall cause the actual market value, or ' holesale price
thereof, at the place of exportation, to be appraised, "and to
such value or price shall be added all costs and. charges, except. insurance, including'in every case a charge for commissions at the usual rates, as the true value at the port where
the same may be entered, upon which the duties are to be
assessed.
The rights of the importer are not submitted to the arbitrary
exercise of power, either on the part of the collector or the
appraisers, but are protected by the specific directions of the
statute. If,therefore, any addition is made to the invoice'not
covered by its terms, it would constitute an illegal exactiQn,
for which the defendant would have his right of action.
The board to which the appeal 'was taken was not one pro.
vided by law for this purpose, but, by agreement of the parties, their appraisement was to be made in "the samle manner, and to the same extent, as if it had been made by merchant appraiseis regularly appointed according to law."
It is shoivn by the evidence tliat the article of concenteated
molasses was'not subject to an export duty in Cuba, and that,
in*fact, the plaintiffs had paid no such duty on thbir exportations from Matanzas.
In their report, the board say: "The board-assume that
both the concentrated mnelado and concentrated molasses are
sugar in a g&een state; " and they state the facts upon .which
this classification is made. It nowhere appears that the invoice price was-not the fair market value at the place of
"exportation; but having determined that the concentrated
molasses should be classed as sugar, they proceed, in the

SUPREME COURT.
Belcher et aX. v. Linn.

pounds,
words of the report itself, - to add export duty on at 87J cents per 500 pounds." This was the export duty on
sugar, and appears as a charge on the plaintiffs' invoices before them, properly added on all other articles -than the concentrated molasses.
Whether the subject in controversy belonged to the class
known as sugar, or to another, was a question to be decided
alone by the Cuban authorities. It was not to be treated as a
question of chemistry, but as one of political administration,
and as such, the board had no jurisdiction whatever over it.
If the Cuban authorities, with a full.knowledge of the article,
determined that it did not belong to the class of sugar, and
t herefore not subject to duty, the appraisers here could have
no authority to revise that determination, and make it subject
to a sugar duty. When, therefore, the board, acting upon the
assumption that the article was to be classed as sugar, add, as
a charge, an "export- duty," which was not due, and never
was paid, they exceeded the authority which the law confers
upon appraisers.
The force of this proposition was sought to be avoided in
the court below by the introduction of the 'tvidence of one
,f the four appraisers Who signed the award, to show that the
meaning of the board was not to add an "export duty," but
only such a sum as, in their opinion, would bring the article
up to its market value at the place of exportation. Ii other
words, that when they said "add for export duty 87 cents
per 500 pounds," they did not mean what the language used
by them clearly imports, but something different.
This is, therefore, an attempt to contradict a solemn dec
laration of four persons, by the evidence of one 6f the number
as to what was intended by them all.
If the plain meaning of the report or award could be conIradicted, it is submitted, that all who made it should have
been examined as to their intent.
But the rule of law is considered well settled, that no such
evidence is admissible.
This extrinsic evidence was introduced, not for the purpose
of applying the report to the subject-matter of the controversy,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Bdcer et aZ. v. Linn.

for that frIy appears in the, report itself; nor of supplying
any omimion necessary to make it intelligible, nor to explain
any (doibtful word, for no such omission or doubt exists.
In the case of Van Buren v. Diggs, the contract provided
that if the house was not completed at the day specified, there
was to be a "forfeiture of 10 per cent. of the whole amount."
The defendant sought to prove that the contractor intended
this as stipulated damages; but this court held such evidence
wholly inadmissible.
11 Hlow., 463.
So in ]emble v. Lull, (3 McLean, 274.,) it was ofered to
show what construction was intended by the parties in the use
of the words "if in funds," contained in an order fbr the payment of money. This the court upheld as inadmissible, holding that the words were not ambiguous, and that it was the
duty of the court to construe them.
So in Kewland v. Douglas, (2 John. R., 62,) it was offered
to show by the evidence of two of the arbitrators a mistake in
the award in their subtraction of figares, but the evidence was
rejected as illegal.
In the multiplicity of adjudications on this subject, the broad
line of separation between simple interpretation of what is in
the instrument, and direct evidence of intention independent
of the instrument, has been kept steadily in view.
. As the goods were detained by the collector, without fault
on the part of the plaintiff, it is further contended that when
the collector at New Orleans levied the duties, they should
have been calculated only on such quantity as then remained
in his possession. The law levies the duty upon the importer,
because he is enabled to make it good from the consumer; but
the importer ought not to be held responsible for duties upon
goods which, though imported, by reason of the negligent or
illegal acts of the Government agents, never came into his
possession.
Mr. Stanton made the following points:
It should be remembered that the plaintiffs showed by parol
testimonythat, bythe original appraisement at New Orleans, the

SU PRllM

COURT.

Belchlhr etal. v.Linn.

invoice valuation of thei" carioes was increased one-halfreal per
arroba, (61 cents per 25 pounds.) This is equivalent to $1.25
per 500 pounds. But the increased valuation made by the
board of general appraisers was only 87 cents per 500 pounds.
It is obvious that the alleged excess of duties ($627.41) actually paid by the plaintiffs was less than tbey would have been
rc(pired to pay upon the New Orleans appraisement. The
excess of duties which that appraisement demanded over the
amount. due on the invoice valuation was $896.30. Unless,
therefre, the original appraisement was superseded by some
regular pr:oceeding, the plaiutiffs had no right to recover.
The first inrquiry, therefore, is, whether the appraisement
made at New Orleans was defeated by the subseqcient proceedings. The plaintifA appealed from the appraisement made at
New Orleans. This appeal was taken under the provisions of
the lTth section of the act of August 80, 1842, as modified by
the 3d. section of the act of March 3, .1851.
9 Stat., 629.
RegularIy, this appeal should have been determined by a
board composed of one merchant appraiser and one of the general appraisers. By the agreement, it was submitted to the
board of general appraisers. The appraisement was made at
New York upon samples, when, regularly, it should have been
made at New Orleans on an inspection of the cargoes.
The first question, therefore, presented on this record, is
whether, by the agreement to submit the appraisement to the
hoard of general appraisers, the appeal was abandoned.
Where the importer, after demanding an appeal, withdraws
or declines to prosecute it, the original appraisement stands.
Bartlett v. Kane, 16 I-ow., 263.
Neither the Secretary of the Treasury nor the collector has
the power, with the consent of an importer, to submit the
appraisement of goods to any other -tribunal tian that designated by the law.
It is clear that, without such consent on the part of the importer, the appraisement cannot be made in any other mannei
than that directed by acts of Congress.. The collector cannot

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Belcher et al. v. Linn.

remove a merchant appraiser at pleasure after he has been
.hosen.
Greely v. Thompson, 10 How., 225.
The appraisement must in all respects be made in conformity with the law.
Burgess v. Converse, 2 Curtis, 221.
It is enough to set aside an appraisement that one of the
appraisers did not inspect the goods.
10 Howard, 225.
The whole current of decisions establishes the position that
the mode of appraisement pointed out in the tariff acts now in
force must be observed, and that the Secretary of the Treasury
has no power to change it. It is a legitimate conclusion-from
this, that want of power in that officer to alter the regular
mode of appraisement must be alike fatal to any change,*
whether made with the c'onsent of the importer or not.
2. But suppose the agreement of the 28th September, 1853,
to have been valid. The position taken by the plainfiffi intheir protest, and by the counsel on the argument, is, that the
report of the appraisers conclusively shows that the sum of
87 cents per 500 pounds was added to the invoice value of
the sugar by the board of general appraisers, as an export
duty. Let us concede, for argument's sake, this position to
be correct; what is the consequence? The case, then, stands
thus: The board of appraisers have decided that an export
duty was, in fact, paid upon these cargoes. The plaintiffs
claim the right to show before a jury that no such duty was
paid. Can they do this? They certainly cannot, if the finding of that fact was within the jurisdiction of the board of
appraisers.
Now it is plain, from the provisions of the act of March 3,
1851, (9 Stat., 629,) that the appraisers must not only ascertain
the value of the goods, but also ascertain the charges upon
them. Their business is not only to find the "actual market
value or wholesale price," &c., but also to certify the dutiable
'7alue of the goods, which consists of the wholesale price of
the goods added to all costs and charges. The case of Samson
,v.
Peaslee, 20 How., 575, is not inconsistent with this view.
voL. XXrV.

33

SUPREME COURT.
Belcher et al. v. Linn.

The apraised value of the goods added to the costs and
charges constitutes the dutiable value, and the appraisers must
ascertain both.
It was, then, the province of the board of general appraisers,
under the agreement, to ascertain the charges to which these
importations had been subjected. They found the fact to be,
that an export duty was paid. Is not that finding conclusive?
Can the plaintiffs be permitted to show that the fact was otherwise? Surely not; for it is certainly settled that the decision
of %,e
board upon a matter of fact within their jurisdiction is
final.
Act of March 3, 1851, see. 3.
16 Howard, 272.
4 Howard, 327.
Stairs et al. v. Peaslee, 18 How., 527.
3. But the report of the board of general appraisers does
not show conclusively that the amount added as export duty
to the invoice valuation was put on as a charge actually paid
upon the goods; and it was proper to admit parol evidence to
explain the principles upon which the addition was made.
The appraisers were not required by law to make a report.
No statement of the details of their proceedings was necessary.
rheir certificate of the dutiable value of the goods was their
appraisement.
Act of March 3, 1851, see. 2, 9 Stat., 629.
The report in other respects is not the only legal evidence
of the course of their proceedings.
The words "to add export duty" do not imply that such
duty was assumed to have been paid. The evidence did not
contradict the report, but explained what was obscure and
ambiguous.
The following authorities seem to sustain the position that
the evidence was properly admitted. An assistant appriser
proved the calculation upon which the appraisement was based,
(in United States v. Southmayd, 9 how., 638:) evidence adinitted that only one appraiser inspected the article, (10 How,
228;) to show that appraisement was made by sample, (Greely
v. Bvrgess, 18 How., 413;) to show how examination of pack.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
BelcTer et aL. v. Linn.

ages vas made, (20 How., 574.) The principles applicable to
awards are analogous. The appraisers are legislative referees.
4 How., 335.
10 How, 240.
Arbitrator may he examined concerning the grounds of his
award, with his consent.
Johnson v. Durant, 4 Car. and Payne, 327, note.
Greenleaf's Rep., 87.
3 Espinasse, 113.
4 Espinasse, 180.
Zeigler v. Zeigler, 2 S. and R., 286.
In Alden v.Saville, 5 Taunt., 455, a reference to the arbitrator was ordered, requesting him to state upon what -grounds
ne gave damages.
4- In the protest, one ground of objection to the payment
of tfie duties was, that no charge for export duty was made by
the Government appraisers at New Orleans. But wheu ail
appeal is taken to merchant appraisers, the whole appraisement
is open for their consideration. It is totally immaterial to
them what was done by the Government appraisers.
2 Curtis, 220.
5. The duties on imports are to be assessed on the quantity
of goods actually entered at the custom-house.
Marriott v. Brune et al., 9 How., 619.
United States v. Southmayd, 9 How., 63T.
Lawrence v. Caswell, 13 How., 488.
The importation is complete when the goods are entered.
The duty is imposed on the goods "imported."
Act of 1846.
The appraisement being required by law, the detention of
the goods gives no cause of action. It can make no difference
whether the appraisement results in maintaining the invoice
valuativin or in diminishing it. The legality of the appraisement does not depend upon the result. In this case, however,
the defendant contends that the result shows the inv.oice valuation to have been too low. The value of the barrels was
properly added to the invoice valuation.

SUPREME COURT.
Belcher et al. v. Linn.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the cpurtThis is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Missouri. Tl.,. suit was commenced
on the sixteenth day of September, 1854. It was an action
(f assumpsit, and the declaration contained a count fir iioney
had and received, together with three special counts, which
are set forthi at large in the transcript. Plaintiffs wjre "merchants residing at St. Louis, in the State of Missouri, and the
defendant was the surveyor of that port, appointed under the
act of the second of March, 1831, upon whom, by that law,
were devolved the duties of collector, and the suit was iistitu.
ted by the present plaintiffs against the defendant as such
collector, to recover an alleged excess of duties which they
had previously paid under protest on six cargoes'of merchandise invoiced, among other things, as concentrated molasses.
Other causes of action were also set forth in some of tho
special counts, to which reference will hereafter be made.
Defendant pleaded that he never undertook and promised in
manner and form as the plaintiffs had declared ag . inst him,
and upon that issue the parties went to trial. All of the
merchandise on which the duties were exacted and paid was
imported from Matanzas, in the island of Cuba, and was colsigned to the plaintiffs, who were doing bmsiness at St. Louis.
Under the laws of the United States, merchandise cannot lie
imported direct from a foreign port to the port of St. Louis,
but all such importations are required to be first entered at
the custom-house in New Orleans. Some brief reference to
the usual course of proceeding in such cases, as required by
law and the regulations of the Treasury Department, becomes
indispensable, in order that the precise nature of the controversy may be fully understood. Upon the arrival at New Orleans of a vessel from a foreign port having on board merchandise exported from a foreign port, and consigned to a
merchant at St. Louis, it is required, if the merchandise is
subject to an import duty under the laws of the United States,
that an entry of the same shall be made at the custom-house
in New Orleans, in the same manner as required in case of
entry for consumption, and the officers of the customs at that

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

517

Belcher el al, v. Linn.

port then proceed to ascertain and assess the duties to be paid
to the United; States, precisely in the same way as if. the merchandise hail been destined for that market; whereupon a
bond, called a transportation bond, is given by the importer
or his agent to the United States, conditioned that the packages described in the invoice, with marks corresponding thereto, shall, within a specified time., be delivered to the surveyor
and acting collector of the port of St. Louis. 2Notice of the
procee'diugs, ought then to be given by the collector of the
port where, the duties were asceitained and assessed to the
acting colector of the port to which the merchandise is destined; and when the packages are received at the port of
destination, they are placed in the. custody of the acting collectr of that port, who receives the duties, giving notice. of
that fact to, the colleator of the port where they were ascer:
.ained and assessed, and the collector of the latter port is then
authorize by law- to cancel the transportation bond given, by
the- importer. Six vessels arrived at New Orleans, front Matanzas, in May and June, 1853, having on board merchandise
shipped frobia the latter port, and consigned to the plaintiffs,
and it appeared that certain portions"of their respective cargoes were i v-oiced as concentrated mohiases.. Pursuant to.
:he usual course of proceedings in stch cmaes, the plaintiffi,
on the arrival of the vessels at New Orleans, made separate
entries of the respective cargoes, as required by law, at the
custom-house of that port, in order that the duties due to the
United States might be ascertained and assessed. In maing
the entries, however, they followed the invoice, describing the
merchandise in question as concentrated molasses, and carrying out the dutiable value accordingly, without making any
addition in the entry to the cost and value of the article on
account of its peculiar character. One of the entries was
made on the tenth day of May, 1853, and the last two were
made on the sixth day of June, in the same year. Conforming to the requirements of law, the collector of the port submitted the matter to the local appraisers to appraise, estimate,
and ascertain, the dutiable value of the merchandise, and they
added one-half real per arroba, equal to six and one-fourth

SUPREME COURT.
Bclcher ct al. v. Linn.

cents for every twenty-five pounds Spanish weight, to the invoice valuation of the merchandise. From that decision the
plaititiiff appealed, and called for an appraisal of the actual
value of the goods in the foreign market by merchant appraisers. They, the plaintiff, informed the collector on the
eleventh day of June, 1853, that they should appeal, and on
the fourteenth day of the same mouth the collector notified
theni that the appeal wvas allowed, but stated that he should
not appoint appraisers until lie heard from the Department, as
lie desired the aid of a general appraiser. Considerable delay
ensued; but on the 28th day of September, of the same year,
the collector, acting under the instructions of the Secretary
of the Treasury, and the plaintiffs, entered into a written
agreement to the effect that they would substitute samples in
the place of the merchandise, and submit the matters in dispute in all the cases to the determination of the board of general appraisers to be convened at the city of New York as
soon as practicable, stipulating, at fhe same time, to abide by
the appraisement of the board "iiltei same manner, and to
the same extent, as if it had been miade by merchant appraisers regularly appointed according to law." Accordingly,
the general appraisers heard the several appeals, and on the
nineteenth day of October, 1858, made a report in writing.
Concentrated molasses constituted a portion of the cargo in
five of the cases appealed, and it appeared by the report of the
general appraisers that in all those cases they made an addition
to the invoice value of that portion of the merchandise embraced in the entry. Of the five, it will be sufficient to give
one is an example of the rest. It is as follows: "To add export duty on 522,888 lbs., at 87- ets. per 500 lbs." Their reasons for making the addition are fully stated in their report.
After stating that they had examined the samples, they say:
"The board assume that both the concentrated nicladh, and
concentrated molasses are sugar in a green state, and they ar!
borne out in this view of the case by the invoices tlieniselves,
the concentrated molasses in every case heing invoiced per
arroba as sugar, and not per keg as Itiolasses; the cask8s are
also charged Ias sug-ar casks. The concentrated molasses i.i

DECEMBER TEIRM, 1860.
Belcher et at.v. Libt.

not susceptible of being guageil, which is another evidence
that its proper classificatiob issugar."
Plaintiffs proved that the goods were assessed at New Orleans, according to that appraisement, and that they afterwards
.paid the duties under protest, to the defendant at St. Louis.
They protested against the including in the computation of
the dutiable value of the goods any sum whatever for export
duty, averring in the protest that no such duty was paid by
them, or demanded by the authorities at the place of exportation. Testimony was also introduced by the plaintifls tending
to show that concentrated molasses was; well known in the
foreign marke.; that it .vas not at that time regarded as sugar;
that it was not subject to the sugar duty; that no such duty
was demanded or paid; and that the invoice price -represented
the fiiir market value. Their witnesses were cross-examined
by the defendant, and from the cross-examination it appeared
that the plaintiffs, in 1852, set up a sugar-boiling establishnient at Matauzas, and that among the products manufactured
by them was the article invoiced as concentrated molasses,
which it seems is melado, or syrup boiled down to a detnser
consistency, and is manufactured by boiling the melado, and
thus evaporating the watery portiodis until the point of crystallization is reached. Concentrated molasses, as the witnesses
state, is a recent manufacture, and was unknown in the foreign
market until about the time plaintiffs commenced to produce
it from their establishment. When the article first appeared,
the authorities for a short time allowed it to be exported without exacting any. duty; but it wa.A soon classed *with greensugars, and charged with an export duty of eighty-seven and
a half cents for every twenty arrobas of twenty-five pounds
Spanish weight. Likesugar, it is sold, invoiced,-and valued
by weight, and not by measure, -like the ordinary article of
molasses. On the other hand, the defendant, called and examined one of the general appraisers. Among other things,
he testified that"The board did make alterations from the invoice price or
value by adding eighty-seven and a hlf cents for each fiye
hundred pounds, invoice weight, and two reals or twenty-five

SUPREME COURT.
Belcher et al. v. Linn

cents to each barrel, in order to raise the same to the actual
market value, or wholesale price, at the period of exportation
in the principal markets of the country from which the same
had been imported.
"The sums in figures set out opposite these several entries
were additions made by the board to, the invoice value of the
merchandise. The 873 cents for each 500 pounds was added
to make the market value of the sugars called 'concentrated
molasses,' and 25 cents to each 'barrel was added to make the
market value of the barrel.
"The term, 'to add export duty 6n,' was used as expressive
of the principle upon which this sum was added, and not as
conveying the supposition or belief that an export duty had
been paid by the importers, or even that such an export duty
was legally due to the Cuban Government; but it was added
upon the principle that if the sum of 87 cents per each 500
pounds was not payable for export.duty, the value of the merchandise was thereby increased just that sum in the foreign
market. Sugars being the basis of the appraisement, and 87J
cents per each 500 p9uids being the export duty on the same,
that sum was added to make the true foreign market value at
the period of exportation."
To all this testimony the plaintiffs objected, but it was adnitted by the court, and the plaintiffs excepted.
Thirteen points were then presented by the plaintiffs for
instruction to the jury, all of which the court refused to give,
and on the prayer of the defendant the jury were instructed,
that "on the whole evidence the plaintiffs cannot recover."
Under the rulings and instructions of the court the jury returned their verdict 'in favor of the defendant, and the plaintifl
excepted to the refusal of the court to instruct the jury as requested, and to the instruction given, that they, the plaintiffs,
were not entitled to recover. On this branch of the case two
questions are presented for decision : 1. Whether the addition
was lawfully made to the invoice valuation of the merchandise
described in the entry as concentrated molasses; 2. Whether
the testimony of the general appraiser, as to the action of the
Voard in making the apprisenient, was properly admitted.

DECEMBER TER17I, 1860.

521

Beldcer et al.v. Linn.

1. It is provided by the act of the third of March, 1851. to
the efTect that the collector, in all importations subject to an
,advalorem duty, shall cause the actual market value or wholesale price of the importation at the period and place of exportation to be appraised, estimated, and ascertained, and to'
such value or price shall be added all costs and charges, except insurande, including in every case a charge for commissions at the usual rates; and by the true construction of tne
act, and, indeed, by its very words, that appraisement, estimatmation, and ascertainment, when regularly made, becomes
and is the true value of the importation at the place where
the same was 'entered, "upon which the duties shall be
assessed." By the, eighth section of the act of the thirteenth
of July, 1846, it is also provided; that it shall be the duty of
the collector, within whose district dutiable goods. may be
imported or entered, to cause the dutiable value of such
imports to be appraised, estimated, and ascertained, in accordance with the provisions of existing laws, and if the
appraised value-thereof shall exceed ten per cent. or more
the value declared on the entry, then, in addition to the
duties imposed by law on the same, there shall be levied,
collected, and paid, a duty of twenty'per centum ad valorem on
such appraised value. But a proviso is added, that under no
circumstances, shall the duty be assessed upbn an amount less
than the invoice value; any law of Congress to the contrary,
notwithstanding. Importers are required to make an entry
of their respective importations, which should always be
accompanied by the invoice; and when the invoice is received,
the packages for appraisement are designated on the invoice
by the collector, who orders one in ten of them to the public
store for the purposes of the appraisal. Examinatioh of the
selected packages is then made by the local appraisers; and
if, in their opinion; the invoice value is too low, they increase
it, and notify their doings to the collector, and if no appeal is
taken from their appraisement by the importer, their decision
in the premises is final and conclusive as to the dutiable value
of the importation. Every importer, lowever, under those
circumstance, has the right to appeal to merchant appraisers.

SUPREME COURT.
Belcter el al. v. Linn.

Merchant appraisers formerly consisted of two merchants, one
chosen by the importer and one by the collector; but, under
existing provisions of law, the collector may select a Government :ippraiser, so that in the larger ports the board usually
consists of a merchant selected ky the importer, and a per manent appraiser selected by the collector. 9 Stat. at Large,
630. On the appeal, the merchant appraisers, so called, examine the packages ordered to the public store, appraise,
estimate, and ascertain, the actual market value or wholesale
value thereof, at the period of exportation to the United States,
in the principal markets of the country from which the goods
were imported, and certify the value so appraised, estimated,
and ascertained, to the collector; and in the absence of fraud,
their decision is final and conclusive, and their appraisement
in contemplation of law becomes, for the purposes of calculating and assessing the duties due to the United States, the
true dutiable value of the importation. Act August 30, 1842,
see. 17, 5 Stat. at Large, 564; appraisement act, March 3.
1851, sec. 1, 9 Stat. at Large, 631. As was said by this court,
in Bartlett v. Kane, 16 How., 272, the appraisers are appointed
with powers, by all reasonable ways and means, to appraise,
estimate, and ascertain, the true and actual market value and
wholesale price of the importation. The exercise of these
powers involves knowledge, judgment, and discretion. We
hold, as was held in that case, that when power or jurisdiction
is delegated to any public officer or tribunal over a subjectmatter, and its exercise is confided to his or their discretion,
the acts so done are in general binding and valid as to the subject-matter. The only questions which can arise between an
individual and the public, or any person, denying. th'eir
validity, are power in the officer and ffiaud in the party. All
other questions are settled by the decision made or the act
done by the tribunal or officer, whether executive, legislative,
judicial, or special, unless an appeal or other revision is provided for by some appellate or supervisory tribunal prescribed
by law. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet., 691; Rankin v.
Hoyt, 4 How., 327; Stairs v. Peaslee, 18 How., 524. One of
the questions presented in the case last cited was, whether, in

DECEMBER TERM, 1800.
Belcher el al. v.- Lib.

estimating the dutiable A.alue of a certain article called cutch,
the appraisers should have taken the value at the ma-'ket of
Calcutta, or Londou and Liverpool, or Halifax, at the period
of exportation from the latter port;- and the Chief. Justice,
speaking for the whole court, held, that in estimating the
value of the cutch, it was the duty of the appraiser to determine what were the principal markets of the country friom
which it was exported into the United States, and that their
decision that London and Liverpool were the principal markets foi the article was conclusive. Applying these principles
to the present case, it follows, we think, wholly irrespective
of the parol testimony, that the value of the importations
certified to the collector constituted the true and actual
dutiable value of the merchandise embraced in the respective
entries made by the -importers, and there is nothing in the
statement accompanying the report, when considered in connection with the report itself; that is in-auy manner inconsistent
with the view here taken as to the legal effet of their action
in the premises. On the contrary, itis diffieult to misconstrue
their report.. They determine, in lhe first place, that tlhe
article described in the invoice and entry as concentrated molasses was in point of fact a species of green sugar, and that the
invoice and entry were erroneous, not only with respect to the
value affixed to the article, but also as to its description. Payiiient of duties cannot be avoided because theimportation is misdescribed either in the iivoice or the entry, or in both, at the
same time. Appraisers are required to appraise, estimate, and
ascertain, the true market value of the importation, no matter
what name may be affixed to it by the importer, and he cannot be benefited in the estimation of the duties here by the
fhet that, by accident or otherwise, lie succeeded in exporting
the packages from the foreign country without being subjected
to the usual and lawful exactions there impose;]. New manufactures naturally aud constantly give rise to new questions in
r'egard to revenue; but it cannot operate to benefit the plaintiffs in this controversy, that the subordinate authorities, at
the platce of exportation, were for a time misled or deceived as
to the real character of the product in question, or that they

SUPREME COURT.
Belc7cr et al. v. Linn.

mistook the true nature of their duty. Green sugar was subjeet to the export duty, but molasses was not; still, if the importations in question ought in fact to have been classed with
the fbrmer, then it is clear tlat the importer, as matter of
legal obligation, ought to have paid the export duty, and the
determination of the appraisers was not an unreasonable one;
that it was necessary to add a sum to the invoice valuation
equal to the export duty to which it would have been subjected, if it had been correctly invoiced, in' order to bring the
dutiable value up to the actual market value or wholesale
price in the foreign market. Both the report and the statement annexed to it must be taken in parimateria, and considered together; and when so construed, they do not appear to
differ in any respect from the explanations given of them in
the testi.mony of the general appraiser. Without regard to
that testimony, it is not possible to hold that the board added
the export duty to the several importations, regarding the article
as molasses, because they expressly state in the outset that they
assume that concentrated molasses is sugar in a green state, and
proceed to give their reasons for the conclusion, deducing the
reasons given from the various invoices, which, as they affirm,
bear them out in that view of the case. It is clear, therefore,
that the appraisers did not add the eighty-seven and a half
cents to the invoice valuation as an export duty on molasses,
and it is conceded that sugar in a green state was by law subject to the export duty; so that putting the parol testimony
in question out of the case, still the plaintiffs are not entitled
to recover.
2. But suppose it to be otherwise, and that the words, "to
add export duty on," as contained in the statement annexed
to the report, are to be separately considered; still, it is difficult to see how the admission can be of any service to the
plaintifs. They must still maintain that the importations
were in fact molasses, and that- the export duty was added by
the appraisers to the invoice valuation of molasses, as such,
else they have no standing in court, for they do not deny that
if the produce in question was really sugar in a greeii state,
that it was competent for the appraisers to correct the misde-

])ECEM1MEr

TELM. 1860.

Belcher el al. v. Linn.

scripiion in thl invoice and entry, or disregard it, so as to performn their duty as required by law. Unless they have that
right, then the grossest fiauds may be committed by an importer with perfect impunity; and if they have that right, as
clearly they must, then it follows that any Oispute as to the
nature of the produce imported, and itg consequent classification in the invoice and entry, were questions of fict within the
Jurisdiction of the appraisers, and their decision is final and
conclusive. On the other hand, if it -be admitted that the
words "to add export duty 6" are ambiguous and of doubtfl signification, then the case would be-one where paro-l testimony would he admissible to explain the ambiguity, by show..
ingr what was done by the appraisers, and the manner in which
the value of the importations was dppraised, estimated, and
ascertained. U. S. v. Southmayd, 9 How., 638; Greeley v.
Thompson et al., 10 How., 228; Greeley v. Burgess, 18 ow.,
413; Samson v. Peaslee, 20 How., 574; Raukin et al. v. Hoyt,
4 11ow., 335.
3. Plaintiffs also claimed in niome of the counts of the decla.
ration to recover back certain duties alleged to have beer.
illegally exacted of them by the defendant, on certain barrels
exported empty by them from the United States to Matanzas,
and brought back filled with concentrated molasses. That
claim, however, is not pressed in the case, because the same
claim is embraced in another case, which is also before the
court.
4. Another claim is to recover damage on account of the
delay which ensued in completing the appraisement, and the
consequent leakage and loss of the concentrated molasses; but
we are not able lo see any just ground for the claim, on the
facts disclosed in the record. Appraisement of the goods is
required by law, and as the detention of the goods is the neceasary consequence of that requirement, it cannot be held, under
the circumstances of this case, that it affords any ground of
action against the defendant. Duties are required by law to
be assessed on the- goods, and the assessmelt is uniformly
made on the quantity entered at the custom-house, without
any allowance whatever for ordinary leakage and deteriora.

SU''EME COURT.
Knighd et al. v. Schell.

tion.

Marriott v. Brune et al., 9 How., 619; Lawrence v. Caswell, 13 .How., 438. For these reasons we are of the -opinion
that there is no error in the record, and the judgment of the
Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with costs.

JAMES KNIGHT, JAMES H. WEST, AND ROBERT SARGEANT, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. AUGUSTUS SCHELL.
When barrels are manufactured in the United Sta'es and shipped empty to
Cuba, there filled with molasses, and brought back to the United States, the
duty must be levied upon the value ort the barrels, as well as upon the molasses. This conclusion rests upon the following reasons: Molasses barrels,
under such circumstances, have been applied to the commercial use for which
they were manuihctured, and on their re-importation here, even if fit for a
second voyage, seldom or never have the same value as when new. When
filled in the foreign market, re-imported here, and offered at the custom-house
for entry, they have then acquired a new c]haracter within the meaning of the
revenue laivs. Wilh their contents they are then denominated packages, from
which one in ten must be selected and ordered to the public stores for appraisement, and as such constitute a part of the charges of importation.
The acts of Congress, and the uniform interpretation placed on them by the
Treasury Department, require this to be done.

THIS case came up on a certificate of division in opinion
between the. judges of the Circuit Court for the southern district of New York.
The question was, whether barrels manufactured in the
United States and exported empty to Cuba, and afterwards
brought back to the United States filled with molasses purchased in Cuba, were brought back "in the same condition as
when exported," according to the true intent and meaning of
the acts of Congress in that behalf.
On which question the opinions of the judges were opposed.
Wherefore, on motion of the plaintiffs' counsel, at the same
term, it is ordered that the point on which the disagreement
bath happened-be stated, under the direction of the judges.
and certified under the seal of this court to the Supreme Court
,to be finally decided, and that the foregoing state of the plead-

