SUPREME COUR1.
Fackler v. Ford et al.

ter of the debt, as viewed under the statute or common law
of the country in which it originated. It was assumed by the
Congress of Mexico, upon public political considerations, in
favor of persons who had contributed their means in support
of the struggle which resulted in the achievement of her independence, and the obligation rests not upon the contract of
General Mina, or municipal regulations, but upon the decree'
of the sovereign power and public law of the nation.
We may add, that after the recognition and adoption of this
claim by the Mexican authorities, the Government of the
United States, through its minister to that country, made it
the subject of negotiation on behalf of the parties in interest,
who were citizens, for the purpose of procuring indemnity for
the same, and which resulted, as has been already stated, in
its satisfaction, under the convention of 1839.
We have no difficulty, therefore, in holding that the demand
in 1829 constituted a right of property or interest in Gooding,
the insolvent, that passed to the plaintiff as trustee, by virtue
of the assignment under the insolvent proceedings of 1829.
The case of Comegys et al. v. Vase, (1 Peters, 193, 216, 218,
220,) is a full authority upon this point.
As to the objection that the plaintiff is concluded by the
decision of this court in the case of the former, Administrator
of Gooding v. the Executors of Oliver, reported in the 17th
How., 274, one of the questions decided in that case furnishes
a conclusive answer to it. We need not repeat the reasons
or authority which led thi's court to its conclusion, which are
there stated at large.
The decree of the court below reversed and remanded, with
directions to enter a decree for the plaintiff against the administrators of Gooding, deceased, in pursuance of above opinion
and stipulations of parties.

JoHN

M.

FACKLER, APPELLANT, V. JOHN

R. FORD AND OTHERS.

rhe fourth and fifth sections of the act of Congress passed on the 31st of March,
1830, (4 Stat. at L., 392,) entitled "An act for the relief of purchasers of pub

DECEMBE!t TERM, 1860.

323

Facklerv. Ford et al.
lic lands, and for the suppression of fraudulent practices at the public sales
of the United States," cited and explained.
One who covenants to sell lands which he expects to purchase at such sales,
cannot afterwards plead his own fraud in obtaining his title from the Government in bar of a decree for specific performance of his agreement.

Tnis was an appeal from the Supreme Court of the Territory of Kansas.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 31r. Carlisle,upon a brief filed by Mr.Badger
and himself, for the appellant, and by Hr. Ewing and. Mr.
Goombs for the appellees.
The counsel for the appellant insisted that the agreement of
November 23, 1856, was in violation of the fourth and fifthsections of the act of 31st March, 1830.
4 Stat. at L., 392.
We insist that the contract on which this bill is filed is in
conflict with the provisions of both these sections, and tends
immediately to defeat or obstruct-he purpose of Congress.
That purpose, in both sections, is to secure free and open contests at the sales,ofthe public lands by auction. The fourth section prohibits any contract or agreement to,, induce or prevent
any one from bidding at such sales. Here, the plain result
and effect of this contract was to prevent the appellees from
bidding for land which the contract shows that they desired
to possess; and this was directly within the scope of the
agreement and purpose of the parties. For how could it be
consistent with the agreement, that the appellant should buy
for himself and the other parties; that the other parties should
bid against him--that is, against themselves? That they
would not, was certain, because those other parties were by
the agreement to pay to the appellant one moiety of the price
at which the land should be bid off by him; and the agreement shows upon its face that it was well understood that the
appellant would, as a settler on the land, buy it for the rnn
iPmum price at which it was to be put up for sale; or, in other
words, it was the expectation that there would in effect be no

SUPREME COURT.
Fackler v. Ford el al.

auction and no bid but that of the appellant, if the appellees
did not enter the contest. And the agreement to pay the appellant tcn thousand dollars beyond the price to be paid to
the United States, shows that the land to be bought was
known to be worth many times that price. It was therefore
a plain, direct purpose of the contract to prevent the land
from bringing a fair value, by stifling a contest, and excluding
the only party besides the appellant desiring the land from
bidding. And further, this understanding was so much a part
of the contract, that the appellees could not have bid without
violating the agreement on their part, and discharging the
appellant from his part thereof. For to bid would have been
to enhance the price, one-half of which the appellant was to
pay, contrary to the obvious intent and purpose of the contract.
Now, all this is in plain contravention of the fourth section
of the statute, which makes it an offence to bargain, contract,
or agree with any person, that such person will not bid at any
such sale, or even to attempt to make a bargain, contract,
or agreement, for such purpose. Now, here was not only a
contract, but an effectual one, by which the appellees were
prevented from making a bid.
But further, the same section makes it an offence, by any
"combination or unfair management," to hinder, or prevent,
or attempt to hinder or prevent, any person from bidding; and
though this primarily -refers to the hindering of persons from
bidding who are not parties to the combination or management, yet in this case, upon this contract, the combination of
management with each other to procure the land at a less
price, by preventing one of the parties, is seen to be withir
the mischief which the statute was intended to prevent; and
whether the parties would or would not be indictable, yet the
contract is in plain and evident conflict with the policy of the
law, and therefore prohibited thereby.
But the contract is also manifestly-a violation of the last
cited section-the fifth of the statute.
That section prohibits any and every contract or secret
understanding made by one or more persons with another whe

DECEMBER TERi,

1860.

325

Facklerv. Ford et al.

proposes to parehase any such lands, to pay or give to such purchaser for such land a sum of money or article of property
over and "above the price at which the land may or shall be
bid off," and declares every such contract, &c., and "every
bond, obligation, or writing, of any kind whatsoever, founded
upon or growing out of the same," to be utterly null and void,
and authorizes any party to such contract, &c., who may pay
any such sum of money, &c., to sue for and recover back the
same. Now, the contract in-this case, we submit, falls, both
literally and in spirit and intent, within the prohibition of this
section. First, is to its letter. The parties came to an understanding for what the statute prohibited, and then entered
into a written contract, which is void. , Secondly, the whole
scope and intent of the contract is in violation of the spirit of
the law, which is, to secure a fair competition at the public
sales. And both sections seek to accomplish that purposethe -former, by punishing any attempt to prevent bidding; the
latteri by avoiding contracts: between the parties, by which
one shouldI buy and sell to another at an enhanced price. The
object is one-to insure fair competition. This is sought by
both sections; and the contract in our case embraces both
the modes of evading the enactment and accomplishing the
mischief against which the statute was directed. There is,
first, the attempt, by a bargain well devised and successfully
carried out, to prevent competition, and procure the land at
less than its-value, by making it the interest of one party not
.to bid; then, there'is, to accomplish the sam -purpose, the
stipulation by that party to pay a price additional to that
offered to and received by thi United States at the auctionsale, and the actual payment thereof to the other party.
Now, it seems sufficiently obvious, that if such a contract
will be enforced in a court of justice, for either party against
the. other, the object of the statute will be defeated. True,
one or both the parties might have been, perhaps, indicted
under the first section before the time of limitation had expired, and true, also, that one of the parties might, and may
now, recover against the other the sum paid in violation of.
the law; but that is nbt the full measure of aid which courts

SUPREME COURT.
Fackerv. Ford et al.

of justice give in support of the law. The indictment may be
barred by time; the recovery back of the money may be prevented by the statute of limitations; but courts act upon the
principle of giving no relief to parties to an unlawful contract-one expressly forbidden by law, or growing out of or
connected with one so forbidden, or which plainly violates

the policy of the law-the end and object of the law-however
such contracts may be framed or executed.
This case, we submit, falls within this principle, and the
appellees are consequently not entitled to relief.
The counsel for the diefendant contended, on the other hand,
that the agreement was not in violation of either of these sections.
The fourth section was intended to protect the United
States against combinations to prevent competition at the
sales.
Now, fis case ,does not come within the provisions of this
fonrth section; there is no such agreement as it contemplates,
either alleged or p-royfed. If that section stood alone, this
would be simply a case where two or -three men give two or
three other men a sum of money, the latter of whom :are to
bid off two desig e trats of land for the common benefit,
and divide the land equally between them.
2. B3ut the contract does, we think, come within the fifth
section of the same act, which was intended, not for the protection of the United States, but for the protection of the person-who is made to pay a premium to another for bidding off
land for him. It is to prevent the levying of black mail, by
combinations of men, trespassers on the public lands, who assemble at the sales, and with rifle and revolver overawe honest bidders. It was intended for such cases. It is in these
words:
"That if any person or persons shall, before or at the time
of the public sale of any of the lands of the United States,
enter into any contract, bargain, agreement, or secret understanding with any other person or persons, proposing to purchase such land, or pay or give such purchasers for such land
a sum of money, or other article of property, over and above

DECEMBER,TERM, 1860.

327

Fackerv.Ford d al.

the price at which the land may or shall be bid off by such
purchasers, every such contract, bargain, agreement, or secret
understanding, and every bond, obligation, or writing of any
kind whatsoever, founded bpon or growing out of the same,
shall be utterly null and void. And any person or persons
being a party to sic-h -contract, bargain, agreement, or secret
understanding, who shall or may pay to such purchasers any
sum of money or other article of propefty, as aforesaid, over
and above the purchase money of such land, may sue for and
recover such excess from such purchasers in any court having
jurisdiction of the same. And if the party aggrieved have no.
legal evidence of such contract, bargain, agreement, or secret
understanding, or of the payment of.the excess aforesaid, he
may, by bill in equity, compel such purchaser to make discovery thereof; and if in such case the complainant shall ask
for relief, the court in which the bill is pending may proceed
to final decree between the parties to the same: Provided,
every such suit,'either in law or equity, shall be commenced
within six years next after the sale of said land by the lUbited
'States."
The person of whom illegal exaction is made is not au offending, but, in the language of the act, the "aggrieved"
party. Courts of equity are opened to him; he may compel a
disclosure by the offending party, and he :may have a decree
for "such excess " as her has been compelled to pay. He may
not, as seems to be supposed on -the other side, recover back
the actual purchase money, but only the excess, having his
remedy in equity, as a matter of course, for the title to his
land also. The fact that he has been swindled in the purchase, does not at all deprive him of his right to the land purchased. If the ,complainants had paid but $560, the actual
price at which the land was bid. off, they would have been enitled to their half of the land, beyond all doubt or question.
But they were illegally required to pay an "excess," or not
get the land: They paid it; the act of Congress says they re
"aggrieved," and have a right to recover it back in equity.
The act which gives them equitable remedy, which they had
not, cannot be construed to Jake away that which they already

SUPREME COURT.
Facder v. Ford et al.

had. it is not intended to aggrieve the person imposed on,
but to redress his grievance.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinio1 of the court.
Ford and others are complainants in a bill for specific per-.
formance of a contract made by them with Fackler & Mills.
The bill charges that on and before the 22d of November,
1856, Fackler claimed, as actual settler thereon, a fractional
section of land containing sixty acres, and Mills the east half
of a quarter section, containing eighty acres, in Leavenworth
county, Kansas Territory, being parts of the land purchased
by the Government of the United States of the Delaware Indians.
These lands had been appraised at eight dollars an acre, and
advertised for sale pursuant to law. That prior to that date,
Fackler & Mills surveyed and laid off said tracts of land so
claimed and held by them, into blocks, lots, public grounds,
streets, alleys, &c., for a town to be known as "Fackler's addition" to Leavenworth city; that they made a plat of it and
divided the whole into eighty shares of six lots each, executing certificates, on the back of each of which. they indorsed
the lots assigned; that they also represented themselves to be
owners of a ferry right from the south part of Fackler's addition, to and including a landiig on the opposite side of the
Missouri river, and a lease of a fractional section in Platte
county, in Missouri, containing thirty-four acres; that Fackler
& Mills were anxious to sell and dispose of the undivided half
of the ferry, together with an equal and divided half in lots
of the 140 acres, being 40 shares, containing ihthe aggregate
240 lots; that on the 22d. of November, 1856, they entered into
covenant, under seal, to sell to complainant 40 shares, being
one-half of 140 -acres in Fackler's addition to Leavenworth
city, which shares were divided and agreed to be the following
tots, viz: 23, &c., &c., &c.; that the complainants have paid
the sum of $10,000 as a consideration, and -agreed to furnish
one-half the porchase money to be paid at the Delaware sales;
that Fackler & Mills agred to make a quit-claim deed to the.
vendee.; when they have obtained a title for the lands, and as

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

329

FPacklerv. Ford et aL.

part consideration of said payment, a deed for the undivided
half of the ferry right and lease of grounds on the Missouri
side should also be executed.
At the bottom of this agreement, of the same date, is a receipt by Fackler for $560, -,being one-half of the appraised
value of the lands described in the within contract, which we
are to use in paying for the said lands at Delaware sales, held
at Leavenworth this day."
The bill further charges that Fackler & Mills did obtain a
title for said land, and now refuse to convey to complainant
either the land or the moiety of the ferry right, and prays for
a lecree for specific performance.
The respondents demurred to this bill, and afterwards withdrew their demurrer and filed an answer. The answer admits
the contract and receipt of the money, and purchase of the
lands, but charges that the Government of the United States
was trustee of the Delaware Indians of these lands, and that
the act of the officers of the Government in fixing the value
of the land, and in restricting the purchase thereof to settlers
thereon, to such valuation, was a "fraud on the Indians," and
that the plaintiffs were cognizant of such fraud; that the lands
were appraised far below their-true value; that respondents
have not put the plat of their town on record; that therefore
the description of the land is so vague and uncertain that a
court cannot decree a specific performance; that a statute of
Kansas requires all town plats to be recorded; that besides the
money paid to the respondents, there was a parol representation made by complainants; that by their-capital and influence
they had built up other towns in the West, and would do the
same with this if they could get a large interest at low rates;
and that not having performed this part of their contract, respondent refused to miake them a title; and lastly; the answer
concludes with the following defence and apology:
"_And this defendant says, that inasmuch as the plaintiffs
have endeavored to avail themselves of a supposed technical
legal advantage to aid them in a non-compliance with their
contract, and have failed to complj, with the same, defendant
in turn claims that h - is justified in charging, and does charge

SUPREME COU-RT.
Fackler v. Ford et al.

and insist, that said contract was made before the relinquishment of the title of the Delaware Indians to said land, and in
violation of the said treaty with said Indians; and that said
agreement, settlement, survey, and platic of said land were
each in violation thereof, and in via ation of the laws of the
United States, and in violation of the statutes of the Territory
of Kansas, and in violation of the public policy of the United
States, and void."
Afterwards, on motion of complainants, the court ordered
to be expunged from the answer each one of the charges, a
summary of which we have just given. This left in the answer
nothing but an admission of the charges in complainants' bill.
A bill of exceptions (according to the practice of that court)
was taken to this order of the court, and the case was ther,
heard on the bill, adswer, and exhibits, and a decree was
entered for complainants, which was confirmed on appeal to
the Supreme Court of the Territory.
The allegation that the United States defrauded the Indians,
and that the lands were sold below their value, and consequently that Fackler, having got his title by a fraud, was
bound to commit the further fraud of keeping the complainants' money and the land too, might well have been expunged
from the answer as "impertinent" in every sense of the term.
The plea of vagueness of description in the contract, and that
defendant had not put his town plat on record before he got a
title from the United States, partake largely of the same
quality.
The plea that plaintiffs had not used their influence to bring
emigrants and make improvements in the intended addition to
the city, and thus add value to the land which the respondent
would not convey to them, was surely irrelevant, if not impertinent; and finally, the sweeping charge in the conclusion of
the answer, that the whole transaction was in violation of the
treaty with the Indians, and in violation of the laws of the
United States, and of the statutes of Kansas, does not indicate
whether respondent intends to'charge the-complainants with
fraud, or rely upor his own. It alleges no facts, and is fol-

DECEMBER TERAM, 1860.

831

Fackler v. Ford et al.

lowed by no proof. It is in fact a return to the demurrer to
the bill, and as suchhas been argued in this court.
The question to be decided is, whether there is anything on
the face of this contract which shows it to be void ly any law
of the United States. iHow the treaty or. the laws of Kansas
can affect it has not been shown, and need not be further noticed. It was time enough to record the plat of the intended
city when the respondents had obtained a title, and so far as
it concerned the complainants, they could not be in default till
they got a title, and were offering their lots for sale. The
enumerhtion of the.lots.in the contract was a mode of specifying how the land should be divided, and the plat of the intended town could be referred-to for description and certainty
just as any other private survey or draft.
The laws of the United States which it is alleged invalidate
this -)ntract, are the fourth and fifth sections of the act of
Congress of 31st of March, 1880, entitled "An act for the relief of purchasers of public lands, and for the suppression of
fraudulent practices at the public sales of the lands of the United States." These sections are in these words:
1 "Sec. 4. That if any person or.persons shall, before or at the
time of the public sale of any lands of the United States, bargain,
contract, or agree, or attempt to bargain, contract, or agree,
with any other person or persons, that the last-named person
or persons shall not bid upon or purcbase the land so offered
for sale, or any parcel thereof, or shall by intimidation, combination, or unfair management, hinder or prevent, or attempt
to hinder or prevent, any person or persons from bidding upon
or purchasing any tract or tracts of land so offered for sale,
every such offender, his, her, or their aiders and abettors,
being thereof duly convicted, shall, for every such offence, be
fined not exceeding one thousmand dollars, or imprisoned not
exceeding two years, or both, in the discretion of the court.
"See. 5. That if.any person-or persons shall, before or at
the time of the public sale of any of the lands of the United
States, enter into any contract, bargain, agreement, or secret
understanding with any other person or persons, proposing to
purchase such land, or pay or give such purchasers for such

SUPREME COURT.
Fackler v. Ford et al.

land a aum of money, or other article of'property, over and
above the price at which the land may or shall be bid off by
such purchasers, every such contract, bargain, agreement, or
secret understanding, and every bond, obligation, or writing
of any kind whatsoever, founded upon or growing out of the
same; shall be utterly null and void. And any person or persons being a party to such contract, bargain, agreement, or
secret understanding, who shall or may pay to such purchasers
any sum of money or other article of property, as aforesaid,
over and above the purchase money of such land, may sue for
and recover such excess from such purchasers in any court having jurisdiction of the same. And if the party aggrieved have
no legal eviaence of such contract, bargain, agreement, or
secret understanding, or of the payment of the excess aforesaid, lie may, by bill in equity, compel such purchaser to make
discovery thereof; and if in such case the complainant shall
ask for relief, the court in which the bill is pending may prooeed to final decree between the parties to the same: Provided,
every such suit, either in law or equity, shall be commenced
within six years next after the sale of said land by the United
States."
The fourth section is intended to protect the Government
and punish all persons who enter into combinations or conspiracies to prevent others from bidding at the sales, either by
agreement not to do so, or by intimidation, threats, or violence.
There is nothing to be found on the.face of this contract
which can be construed as an agreement not to bid, or to hinder, intimidate, or prevent others from doing so.
The fifth section is evidently intended for the protection ot
those who propose to purchase lands at the public sales from
the extortions of those who have formed the combinations
made penal by the fourth section. The complainants stand in
the character of the "party aggrieved" by the fraud, if there be
any in the case. If Fackler had made his conveyance according to his contract, and the complainants were now seeking to
recover back the'ten thousand dollars paid to him, this section
of the statute might have been invoked by them, on proof of
such a combination, and that Fackler was a party to it, asqhe

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Washington, Alexandria, &. (eorggqwn S. P. Co. v. Siclerk

333
el al.

now acknowledges. But it is no part of the policy of this
section to encourage frauds by releasing the fraudulent .parts
from the obligation of his contract. The allegation of the
answer that the contract was in violation of the treaty with the
Indians, and of the acts of Congress, may be a confession of
the respondent's own fraud, but it can give no right to commit another.
The answer filed in this case is by Faekler alone; the record
shows the agreement of counsel that the bill be dismissed as
to Mfills.
The court below were therefore right in decreeing a specific
performance of the contract, but erred in that part of the decree which orders a conveyance of the undivided moiety of the
140 acres. The contract is for a specified and divided moiety
of the land, and an undivided moiety of the ferry privilege,
and that portion of the decree which orders a conveyance according to the contract is affirmed wi-th costs, and record re.
mitted, with instructions to the court below to reform theii
decree in accordance with this opinion.

THE WASHINGTON, ALEXANDRrA, AND GEORGETOWN STEAM-PACK.
ET COMPANY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. FREDERIC, E. SICKLES
AND TRuEmAN Coox. TE WASHINgTON, ALEXANDRIA, AND
GEORGETOWN STEAld-PACKET COMPAIir, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,
v. FREDERIC E. SiCKLES AND TRUEMAN COOK.
Docket entries in the courts of the District of Columbia, as in Maryland, stand
in the place of; and perhaps are, the record, and receiye all the consideration
'that is yielded to the formal record in other-States.
The record of'a former suit between the parties6, in which the declaration consisted of a special count, and the commcn money counts, and where there was
a general verdict on the entire declaration, cannot be given in evidence as an
estoppel in a second uit founded on the special count; for the verdict may
have been rendered on the common counts.
This rule is not varied by the circumstance that after the verdict was rendered
the court directed judgment to be entered for the plaintiib on the first count
in the declaration, being the special ccunt.
The authorities upon the doctrine of estoppel examined.

