SUPREME COURT.
Richardson v. City of Boston.

court for leave to become defendant, instead of the heirs of
the tenant.
Motion to dismiss overruled.
r

THoMAs RICHARDSON, PLAINTrrF

IN ERROR, V. THE CITY OF

BOSTON.
The decisions of this court in the cases of the City of Boston v. Lecraw, 17
How., 426, and Richardson v. City of Boston, 19 How., 263, referred to ana
explined.
Indictments against the city of Boston, in 1848, for permitting unhealthy vapors
and exhalations to arise in that part of the city which the sewer in question
was erected to remedy, were admissible in evidence, on the part of the city,
to show that the conduct of the city did not tend to oppression, and as part
of the history of the case. An instruction of the court below was correct, viz:
that a former verdict and judgment, though admitted in evidence, should
have little or no weight on the decision of the case, because it was founded
on erroneous instructions on the law.
So, also, an instruction was correct which told the jury that there was no evidence in the case which would authorize them to find that the city of Boston
had ever dedicated to the public use a public highway, town way, dock, or
public way, between the wharves in question, for the access of boats and vessels between said wharves to high-water mark or the egress therefrom to the
sea.
These instructions were in conformity with the previous decisions of this court.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Rhode Islaild.
It was an action for the continuance of an alleged nuisance
from 13th September, 185U, to 15th April, 1852. It will hereafter appear why the first of these dates was named.
The nuisance charged is described i two preceding cases,
viz City of Boston v. Lecraw, 17 How., 426, and Richardson v. City of Boston, 19 How., 263. Without noticing at
present the first-named case, it may be proper to give the
history of the present one
The action was brought by'Richardson in the Circuit Court
of Massachusetts to October term, 1850.

DECEMBER TERM. 1860.

189

Richardson v, City of Boston.

1851, March. General issuepleaded, and special plea, plain.
tiff demurs to special plea.
1851, April. Plaintiff has leave to amend his declaration by
adding two counts.
1851, May A statement of facts submitted.
1851, October. Agreement of counsel that the case should
be carried to the Supreme Court.
1852, May Plaintiff has leave to amend declaration.
1852, October. Boston files petition to remove the case, because Mr. Justice Curtis had been counsel, and Judge Sprague
was interested, removed to Rhode Island.
1853, June. Argued before Judge Pitman on the agreed
statement of facts, verdict guilty; damages and costs,
$2,026.87 up to 18th September, 1850; judgment on sixth
count; motion for new trial, pending which, the case of Lecraw v. City of Boston was decided by this court, as reported
in 17 How , case continued by agreement.
1855, June. New trial granted, plaintiff amends writ and
declaration by adding a count, which is the subject of comment by this court in the present opinion, verdict not guilty"
plaintiff.sues out writ of error, and brings the case up to this
court to December term, 1855.
1856, December term of this court. Case tried, and reported
in 19 How., 268, judgment reversed.
1857, November term of Circuit.Court. Mandate from this
court presented, new trial ordered.
1858, June term. Plaintiff amends writ and declaration by
striking out the words constituting the ad damnum in said
writ, as the same now stands, and inserting in lieu thereof the
words following, viz "ten thousand dollars."
By S. BARTLETT, hs Attorney.
And now, by agreement of parties, and with the leave of
the court here, plaintiff amends the several counts of his declaration by striking therefrom such parts thereof as claim
damages for the injury to the ends o.f his wharves by material
deposition near the same, by means of the structure complained of.
The caie then went on to trial before Mr. Justice Clifford

SUPREME COURT.
Richardsonv. Citj of Boston.

and Judge Pitman. Under the instructions which were given
by the court, the jury found a verdict for the defendant, and
the plaintiff again brought the case up to this court by a writ
of error.
The bill of exception was very long, and included the
record of the former case, together with a vast quantity of
other matter. The instruction of the court, admitting this
record in evidence, was as follows.
"'That the record of the former verdict and judgment is admissible in evidence, but inasmuch as it appears that the
verdict was found by the jury under an erroneous instruction
given by the court, the judgment is entitled to very little
weight upon the question of the right to recover in this case,
and none whatever upon the question whether the supposed
way or dock before described was duly laid out and established
by the town of Boston, or the authorities thereof, pursuant to
law, either as a public highway, town way, or public way, for
the access of boats and vessels to high water, or the egress
therefrom to the sea, as is alleged m the seventh count of the
plaintiff's declaration."
By his Honor Judge .Pitman.
The record above referred to was in a case decided by me
upon an agreed statement of facts, which was excluded in this
case. It was therein admitted by the defendant that the place
between the said wharves was "an ancient public dock or
highway " This fact, and the case having been submitted to
Judge Sprague, and decided by him in favor of the plaintiff
before the case was sent to the -Rhode Island district, I was
disposed to decide the same way, unless I saw it was manifestly erroneous. It was to be determined under the law of
Massachusetts, with which I believed he was much better acquainted. than myself. I did not, therefore, so critically examine the documents in the case, and their legal effect, as I
have since done. Since the decision of the Supreme Court of
the United States in the case of Lecraw v. City of Boston. I
have considered the opinioi erroneous which I then delivered,
and the judgment as entitled to ILo weight for that reason as
evidence to a jury, and therefore I excluded the judgment

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

191

Ieichardsonv. City of Boston.

from the consideration of the jury in the former trial. I am
now of the opinion that it is entitled to no weight, though it
be admissible.
I did not decide that the supposed way was laid out as a
way for boats and vessels by the town of Boston or its authorities. I instructed the jury that the plaintiff was entitled to
recover upon the sixth count of his declaration, the one on
which be rested his case, and they found a verdict accordingly
JOtN PITMAN,
Distriet JTdge U S., 1B. Island District.
SEPTEMBER

16, 185S.

The case was argued in this court by Mr Badger and Mr
Carlisle for the plaintiff in error, and Mr Cashing and Mr
Chandler for the defendant.
The arguments of the counsel upon the construction of the
previous decisions of this court and upon the admissibility of
the indictments, (a question reserved in the course of the
trial,) and also upon the powers and acts of the town council
as far back as 1635, are considered to be so local in their application as to justify the reporter in -omitting them.
Mr. Justice. GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the third time in which this claim to have damages
from the city of Boston, for erecting drains and sewers on
their own land for the preservation of the health of the city,
has come before us.
The plaintiff is the owner of two whaives, called Bull's
wharf and Price's wharf, running from high-water to low-water
mark. The space between these two wharves belongs to the
city of Boston, being situated at the foot of Summer street;
and as it was but thirty feet -wide, it became, by the mere
accident of its position, a very convenient dock, or slip, for
plaintiff, so long as the city did not see fit to reclaim their
land. Formerly, the drains and sewers which ran under Summer street discharged at the end of that street at high-water
mark; but, as the city increased, this discharge of drainage

SUPREME COURT
Richardsonv. City of Boston.

became pestilential, and a nuisance to the neighborhood. To
remedy this evil, the city was compelled to extend their drains
out to low-water mark, and this is the nuisance complained of
in this and the other suits.
The case of Lecraw r Boston (to be found in 17th Howard,
426) first introduced this controversy to this court. Lecraw
was tenant of Richardson, and his title consequently the same.
It was clained that the city of Boston, by not wharfing out
their land at the end of Summer street, had dedicated it to the
public, or rather to the private use of Richardson. to whose
wharves it afforded a most convenient dock or slip. This
claim was declared by this court to be wholly without foundation, and that "whether it was called 'town dock' or 'public
dock, it would furnish no ground to presume that the city
had parted with their right to govern and use it in the manner
most beneficial to the citizens."
It is'not our purpose to again discuss this question, or again
repeat the arguments and principles on winch our judgment
was founded The correctness of that decision has not been
impugned or denied, and it needs no interpretation.
During the pendency of this suit of Lecraw, the tenant, and
before its decision in this court, Richardson had brought asuit for damage to his reversion by the same alleged nuisances,
and the verdict and judgment being for less than two thousand dollars, the city could not have a writ of error to reverse
it, as in the other case. When the present case came on for
trial, the decision of this court in the Lecraw case being
known, in order, if possible, to avoid the effect of that decision, a new count was added to the declaration, drawn with
great ingenuity and subtlety, charging that "there had been A
itiniVrAY, or TOWN WAY, or PUBLIC WAY, to the sea or low water,
duly lald out and established purouant to law, " and that the
drains made by the city had "caused njud, earth, and other
materials, to be thrown and deposited upoin and near the said
wharves."
The report of our decision on this case will be founa in 19th
Howard, 263.
We then decidel that a former verdict and judgment in an

DEGEMBER TERM, 1860.
Richardsonv. City of Boston.

action on the case for continuance of the same nuisance was
not conclusive evidence, but is permitted to go to the jury as
persuasive evidence. We stated in what cases it ought to have
weight, and in what it could have little or none, as where the
former verdict was the result of an erroneous instruction on
the law by the court.
As the additional count, on which the plaintiff relied, was
rather equivocal or ambiguous, as to what was meant by a
"highway or town way" to the sea or low-water mark, we
decided that public officers of a town have no power to lay
out a town way between high water and the channel of a navigable river. A board of pilots may mark by buoys the best
channel for vessels in a bay, but this would hardly be called
a "town way on the ocean." Indeed, it did not seem to be
seriously contended on the argument that the selectmen in
1683 had assumed or intended to extend a street or town way
by water over the great ocean highway But as the city of
Boston was owner of the soil *between high and low-water
mark, it had equal right to reclaim the land as other owners;
and having done so, a street or "town way" might be established thereon.
The court decided that, if the land was so reclaimed, and a
highway laid out on it, the right to use it as a street or highway on land becomes appurtenant to the property of the adjoiners, who might well maintain an action for a nuisance on
such street or highway
The plaintiff had alleged in this count that he had received
damage to his wharf by accretions of mud, &c., below lowwater mark, and there was some evidence to support the allegation. The court decided that this fact should have been
submitted to the jury It was a question entirely distinct and
separate from a claim of right of highway in the dock.
With this history of the antecedents of this case, there can
be no difficulty in disposing of the exceptions.
The first exception is to the admission of the bills of indictment against the city They constituted part of the history
of the case, and were referred to in the testimony of the plain
tif, and were, therefore, not wholly irrelevant. They tended

voL. xxiv.

13

SUPREME COURT.
Riclardson v. City of Boston.

to show "that the conduct of the city," as disclosed by the evi.

Jence, did not "tend to oppression," as has been charged in
the argument in this court.
The next exception is to the charge of the court in their
iistruction, that the former verdict and judgment, though admitted in evidence, should have little or no weight on the
decision of the case, because it was founded on erroneous instructions on the law This instruction was in exact conforuity with the ruling of this court. The verdict was oil an
agreed statement of facts, not now disputed, on which the
court gave an opinion, since decided by this court to be a mistake. Like many other matters given in evidence to support
a case, this verdict was received as not irrelevant, although
the proof on the other side might show it to be worthless.
The last exeeption is to the charge of the court, "that there
is not any evidence in the case which will authorize the jury
to find that the supposed way or dock between the plaintiff's
wharves, from high to low-water mark, for the free egress and
ingress of boats and vessels to and from the same, as alleged
and described in the seventh count in his declaration, was ever
dedicated by the town or city of Boston to the public use,
either as a public highway, town way, dock, or public way, for
the access of boats and vessels between said wharves to highwater mark, or the egress therefrom to the sea. That there is
not any evidence in the case which will authorize the jury to
find that the supposed way or dock between the plaintiffs
wharves, from high to low-water mark, for the egress and ingress of boats and vessels to and from the same, as alleged
and described in the seventh count in his declaration, was ever
duly laid out and established by the town of Boston, or the
authorities thereof, pursuant to law, either as a public highway, town way, or public way, for the access of boats and vessels between said wharves to high-water mark, or the egress
therefrom to the sea."
This instruction is in entire conformity with the previous
decisions of this court oii this subject.
There was nothing, in the opinion of this court, which should
eubject it to the misconstruction of having decided that a

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

•195

Nations et al.v. Jolnson et al.

"town way" for boats and vesiels could be laid out on the high
seas, or of imputing to the town officers such an obliquity of
understanding as the assumption of such a power would argue;
on the contrary, the court decided that the public officers had
no such power; but that the city, after it reclaimed the laud
to high-water mark, might continue Summer street as a highway on land, for a nuisance, to which the plaintiff might sustain an action; and this case was remanded in order to give
the plaintiff -an opportunity to have the verdict of the jury on
this subject; and also for any injury he might have sustained
by the drains causing an accumulation of matter at the outer
end of the plaintiff's wharves, The record Shows that the
plaintiff abanaoned any claim for damages for either of these
causes, and he was, of course, left without any case to be submitted to the jury.
Judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.
JAMES NATIONS AND JOSEPH NATIONS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V..

N

oY ANN JoHsoN AND JAMES JomsoN.

In a suit in the District Court of the United States for the western district of
Texas, a transcript of a record of the high court of errors and appeals and the
chancery court for the northern district of the State of Mississippi was properly allowed to be offered as conclusive proof of the value of certain slaves,
and of the amount of their annual hire until given up.
The laws of Mississippi provide, that where a case is carried up to an appellate
court, and the defendant in error is a non-resident, and has no attorney of
record within the State, notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper
of the pendency of.said cause, which the appellate court shall then proceed to
hear and determine.
These directions having been complied with, the jurisdiction of -the appellate
court was complete; and the plea, in Texas, of nul tiel record, properly overruled.
The American and English cases upon this point examined.
Tfle decree of the court was also properly allowed to go to the jury as evidence
of the value of the hiie of the slaves after its rendition; evidence having also
been offered at the trial of the value of such hire at that time.
The case having been on the chancery side of the court and transferred thence.
to the law docket, a bill of exceptions does not bring into this court for revision
any errors alleged to have been committed when it was on the chancery side'

