DECEMBER TER.M. 1860.
Porter et al. v. foey.

evidefice that there was any complaint that the act of 1857
was contrary to the Constitution of the United States, or that
the court gave theirjudgment for the defendant on account
of any of its provisions. It is not referred to, except for the
purpose of showing that the plaintifl might, bring their suit
against the State for damages. The contract declared on was
made by virtue of an act of Assembly of 1845. In 1851, the
people of Ohio formed a new Constitution. This contract was
made in 1855.
The only question presented to the court, and decided by
them, was, whether the provisions of the act of 1845 were
consistent with those of the new Constitution.
This is a question of which this court has no authority to
take j udicial cognizance.
The writ of error is therefore dismissed.

JAZES

D. PORTER AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. BUSHROD W. FOLEY
.

Where an act of Assembly of the State of Kentucky was objected to in the State
court because said act and supplement were unconstitutional and void, the
court properly considere I the question as relating to the power of the Legislature to pass the act under the Constitution of the State, and not under the
Constitution of the United States.
There is therefore no ground for the exercise of jurisdiction by this~court under
the 25th section of the Judiciary act.

Tns case was brought up from the Court of Appeals for the
State of Kentucky by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the Judiciary act.
A motion was made by Mr. Mooar to dismiss it for want of
jurisdiction, under the following circumstances :
Porter and others, the plaintiffs in error, filed a.petition in
the State court.to recover the title and possession of a lot of
land in the town of Covington. They claimed under a grant

SUPRE ME COURT.
Porteret al v. Foley.

from the Commonwealth of Virginia, in 1787, to James Welsh,
and a series of mesne conveyances to themselves.
The defendants below claimed under the same original title.
and also under two acts of the Legislature.of Kentucky passed
on November 10 and November 26, 1823, by which William
Porter was authorized, to sell and convey certain parcels of
ground which had been conveyed to his children. The plaintiffs-objected to the admission of these acts as being unconstitutional and void. The court below, however, and the Court
of Appeals, sustained them.
The reader can now understand the points made by the
counsel
Iin support of the motion to dismiss, Mr. Mooar made the
following points:
1 1. As the bill of exceptions does not state that the statutes
were repugnant to the Constitution of the United States, it
must be presumed. that the State Constitution was xeferred to;
and this court has decided, in numerous cases, it had nojurisdiction on a writ of error froin a State curt to declare a State
law void on account of its collision with a State Constitution.
3 Peters, 289.
4 Peters, 568.
20 Howard, 84.
Tbid, 522.
2. The ground ofjuri sdiction must be stated with precision,
and the rifing of the court, to bring the case under the 25th
section, must appear on the record to have been decided against
the right claimed. •
18 Howard, 196.
The only ruling of the court in this case was in overruling
"the objections of the plaintiM, to the introduction of the two
State legislative acts as evidence in the cause. -The reasons
of the court for admitting the evidence are not stated in the
record; nor did the counsel who made the objection rely upoin
any clause of the Constitution of the Uhited States which
renders said statutes unconstitutional and void. In Maxwell
v. Newbold, 18 Howard, 517, Mr. Chief Justi,-e TANEY said,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

417

Porteret al. v. Foe.
"the clause in the Constitution should have been specified by
the plaintis in error in the State cburt, in order that this
court might see what was the right claimed by them, and
whether it was denied to them. by the decision of the State
couxt." Nqeither the Constitution of the United States, nor
any clause thereof was specified or referre'd tb in this case;
nor is it sufficient that the judges of the State court, in their
opinion, may lhave itated that certain clauses of the Constitution of the United States were involved in the decision, because, as Mr. Justice Story said, in the case of the Ocean Insurance Company v. Polleys, 13 Peters, 165, the opinion of the
judges in the State court "constitutes'no part of the ''ecord;
and it is to the record, and the record only, that we can resort
to ascertain our'appellate jurisdiction in cases of this sort." As
the record in this case does not show thalt the acts of the Legis.
lature of Kentucky were objected to because of their repugnancy to the Constitution of the United States, or any clause
thereof, no case is presented for the appellate jurisdiction of
this court, and the writ of error should-therefore be .dismissed.
Mr. Headingtonopposed the motion to dismiss the writ upon
the ground that the statutes in question violate the seventh
section .of the compact of 1789 between Virginia and Ken.
tucky, (1 Stanton's Ky. Stat., 82,) add are therefore repugnant
to the tenth section of the first article of the Constitution of
the United States.
Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheaton, 1.
The defendant in error now moves to dismiss the case on
the ground that the record does not show that it falls within
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary act of 1789.
1 Stat. at Large, '85.
The verdict and j udgment in the Circuit Court were in favor
of the defendant; and an appeal was taken to the Court of
Appeals, and the judgment affirmed. The whole title of the
defendant rested upon the above acts of the Legislature, the
validity of which was sustained. If, therefore, the claim now
made under the compact with Virginia, and the Constitution
of the United States, was made in the Circuit Court, or Court
VOL. XXIV.

27

SUPREME COURT.
Porterel al. v. Foley.,

of Appeals, it was necessarily involved in the decision, which
was adverse thereto. Does the record show that the claim
was made?
It is not necessary that the question should appear on tlh
record to have been raised and the decision made in direct and
positive terms; it is sufficient if this appears by clear and
necessary intendment.
Wilson v. the Blackbird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Peters, 250.
Satterlee v. Matthewson, Id., 409-10.
Harris v. Denuie, 3 Peters, 302.
Craig v. the State of Missouri, 4 Peters, 427-8.
Davis v. Packard, 6 Peters, 48.
Crowell v. Randell, 10 Peters, 398.
Armstrong v. the Treasurer of Athens Co., 16 Peters,
285.
Nelson v. Lagow, 12 Howard, 109.
When the above acts were offered in evidence.in the Circuit
Court, the plaintiffs objected to their admission on the ground
that they "were unconstitutional and void;" the objection was
overruled, and an exception taken.
It is contended that this objection might have referred to
the State Constitution, and is therefore not sufficient evidence
that-a claim was made under the Constitution of the United
States. This is a common form of expression, however, applied to acts repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
A like inhibition exists in both Constitutions, and the finding
that the acts did not conflict with the one necessarily involved
a finding that it did not conflict with the other. The Court
of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court, and
thus overruled every claim which by necessary intendment
could be brought within the above objection.
But whether the question was raised in the Circuit Court or
not, it is presented on the record, and if decided by the Court
of Appeals, is the proper subject of revision in this court.
Davis v. Packard, 6 Peters, 49.
Nelson v. Lagow, 12 Howard S. C., 110.
The record shows what would appear to be a general order
of affirmance by the Court of Appeals. But this order was

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

419

Porterd al. v. Foley.

szspended, and the final order is in fact contained in the opinion, at the conclusion of which the judgment is affirmed.
This opinion, or judgment, states that it was urged against
the validity of the above acts, "that they are opposed to both
the Federal and State Constitutions, because they in effect impair the obligations of the contracts." There is no mistaking
the meaning of this language; the objection was not sustained,
and the only question is whether the opinion forms a part of
the record in the case.
Under the 909th section of the Code of Practice, governing
the Supreme Court of Louisiana, that court is required to state
the reasons for its judgments by citing as exactly as possible
the laws on which it founds its opinions. When appeals are
prosecuted in Louisiana, the court of last resort acts on the
law and facts as presented by the whole record. And their
opinions or decisions have been uniformly held by this court
to form a part of the record, so as to allow them to be referred
to for the purpose of determining a question of jurisdiction
-under the tweuty-ftfth section of the Judiciary act.
Cousin v. Blanc's executor, 19 Howard S. C., 207.
Crowell v.Randell, 10 Peters, 398.
Now, in Ken'tucky, a case is taken from the Circuit Court
to the Court of Appeals by appeal, and no assignment of
errors is necessary, but the judgment may be reversed or modified for any error appearing upon the record.
Civil Code of Kentucky, secs. 876, 896.
And there is a statute of that State of precisely the same
import and effect as the above section of the Code of Louisiana. It provides that the decisions of the Court of Appeals
must be so written as to show the governing principle thereof,
except in cases involving matters of fact.
1 Stanton's Ky. Stat., 309.
Under this statute the decision *ofthe Court of Appeals in
the present case forms a part of the record, and has been cerlified as such to this court.
It is not desired, nor would it be proper, to discuss the merits
of the case on the present motion.

SUPREME COURT.
Reddall v. Bryan et al.

Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.

The record of this case does not show that any question
arose or was decided by the State court, which this court has'
authority to re-examine by virtue of the 25th section of the
Judiciary act.
Without entering into a tedious analysis of' the 6ase, it is
sufficient to state, that the chief or only question in it was,
whether an act of Assembly of Kentucky, authorizing an executor to sell the real estate of minors, was a valid exercise of
power by the Legislature.
. The counsel for plaintiff objected to the admission of the
deed made. in pursuance of such authority, "because said act
and supplement were unconstitutional and void."
This objection was very properly construed by the court as
having reference to the validity of the act of the Legislature
of Kentucky, not as contrary to any provision of the Constitution of the United States, but as raising the question whether
the Legislature had a power under the Constitution of that
State, by general or special enactment, to authorize the sale
of real estate of infants. The court decided that it had such
power; and ifit had, it is abundantly evident that there is no
article nor clause in the Constitution of the United States which
could interfere with it.
Let the writ of error be dismissed.

WILLIA

0.

REDDALL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. WILLIAM H.

BRYAN, ALFRED L. RIvEs, WILLIAM H. PILES, JOHN CAMERON, JAMES PAINE, CHARLES HUTCHINSON,
AND JOHN

MOORE.
Where a decree of the Court of Appeals of Maryland affirmed the decree of the
court below and remanded the case to that court, this is not such a'final decree as will give jurisdiction over the case to this court.
The decree of the court below was merely an interlocutory order; and although
State laws allow an appeal to State courts from such an order, this cannot en
large the jurisdiction of this court given by act of Congress.
Moreover, the judgment of the State court was in favor of the authority set uF

