SUPREME COURT.
Tracy v. Holcombe.

Dig., art. 3,280. The testimony adduced by the plaintiff, it
would seem, would have authorized a suit in the courts of
Texas, where rights, whether legal or equitable, are disposed
of in the same suit. But this court has established, after full
consideration, that in the courts of the United States suits for
the recovery of land can only be maintained upon a legal title.
It is not contended in this case that the plaintiff has more than
an incipient equity. This question was so fully considered by
the court in Fenn v. Holme, 20 How., 481, that a further discussion isunnecessary.
Judgment of the District Court affirmed.

ALFRED TRACY, SURVIVING PARTNER OF EDWARD TRACY, PLAIN-TIFF IN ERROR, V. WILLIAM HOLCOMBE.

Where the judgment of the court below reverses the decision of the inferior court
and awards a new trial, it is not a final judgment from which a writ of error

will lie to this court.
THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Supreme

Court of the State of Minnesota. ,
The record showed that a suit was brought by Tracy as
surviving partner against Holcombe, and on the 30th of December, 1857, the judgment of the court was entered that he
should recover $2,340.71, with costs.
On the .18th of July, 1859, the Supreme Court ordered that
"the judgment of the court below be, in all things, reversed,
and a new trial granted."
On the 8th of October, 1859, a writ of error was issued pursuant to section third of the act of Congress entitled, "An act
for the admission of Minnesota into the Union," passed May
11, 1858, and section eighteen of the act of Congress entitled,
"An act making appropriations for sundry civil expenses of
the Government for the year ending 30th June, 1859," passed
June 12, 1858.
It was submitted on the record by M-.Phillips for the plain.
tiff in error.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

427

Snqydam v. W2iliamson.
Mr. Chief Justice TATEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been brought here by a writ of error directed
to the Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota. But upon
looking into the transcript, it appears that the judgment which
it is proposed to revise is a judgment reversing the decision
of the court below, and awarding a new trial. There is, therefore, no final judgment in the case, and the wyrit must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.

JAMES H.

SUYDAM,

PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR,

V. WILLIAM H.

WILLIAMSON.

Subsequently to the decisions of this court in the cases of Williamson v. Berry,
Williamson v. the Irish Presbyterian Church, and Williamson v. Ball, re
ported in 8 Howard, the Court of Appeals of the State of New York affirmed
a different opinion from that of this court respecting the title to the real property involved in those decisions.
This court now adopts the decision of the court' of New York in conformity with
the rule which has uniformly governed this court, that where any principle of
law establishing a rule of real property has been settled in the State courts,
the same rule will be applied by this court that would be applied bythe State
tribunals.
Cases cited in support of this rule, and the cases in 8 Howard commented on.

Tnis case was brought up writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of New
York.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion Of the court,
and also in the report of the cases in 8 Howard.
It was submitted on printed argument by Mr. Ellingwood
for the plaintiff in error, and argued by 31r. David Dudley
.Field for the defendant.
The points of law involved in the case are fully stated in the
reports in 8 Howard, arid itis unnecessary to repeat them in
the arguments of counsel now. And, moreover, the decision
of this couxrt turned upon another point, which is fully ex.
plained in the opinion.

