SUPREME COURT.
Rector, &c., of Christ Church, Phila.v. Countj of Ph7

we hold that the company and their assigns, un'der the circumstances of this case, had a right to assume that they imported
verity.
Citation of authorities to this point is unnecessary, as the
whole subject has recently been examined by this court, and
the rule clearly laid down that a corporation, quite as much as
an individual, is held to a careful adherence to truth intheir
dealings with other parties, and cannot, by their representa'tions or silence, involve others in onerous engagements, and
then defeat the calculations and claims their own conduct has
superinduced. Zabriskie v. the Cleveland, &c,, Railroad Co.,
23 How., 400.
For these reasons, we are of the opinion that the parol testimony was improperly admitted, and that the instructions given
to the jury were erroneous. The judgment of the Circuit
Court is therefore reversed, with costs, and the cause remanded, with directions to issue a new venire.

THE RECTOR, CHURCH WARDENS, AND VESTRYMEN, OF CHRIST
CHURCH, IN THE CITY OF PHILADELPHIA, IN TRUST FOR CHRIST
CHURCH HOSPITAL, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. THE COUNTY OF
PHILADELPHIA.
[n 1833, the Legislature, ofPenmsylvania -enacted that "the real propefty, including ground rents, now belonging and payable to Christ Church Hospital, in
the city of Philadelphia, so long as the same shall continue to belong to the
said hospital, shall be and remain free from taxes."'
In 1851, they enacted that all property, ieal or personal, belonging to any association or incorporated company, which is now by law exempt from taxation,
other than that which is in the actual use and occupation of such association
or incorporated company, and from which an income or revenue is derived by
the owners thereof; shall hereafter be subject to taxation in the same manner
and for *the same purposes as other property is now by law taxable, and so
much of any law as is hereby altered and supplied be and the same is hereby
repealed.
This last law was not in violation of the Constitution of the United States. It
"sin the nature of such a privilege as the act of 1833 confers, that it exists
bene placitum, and may be revoked at the pleasure of the sovereign.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Rector, &c., of Christ CAhurc, Pdla)v. County of Phila.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Pennsylvanja by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the Judiciary act.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court,
ann also the decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
which was aleged to be in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States.
It was argued by Mr. McCall and Mr. 1everdoi Johnson for
the plaintiffs in error, and submitted on a printed argument
by Mr. King for the defendants.
The first. point of the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, viz:
that a Legislature had power to exempt property permanently
from taxation, was not contested by the other side; but the
argument was; whether the i'eason given for exempting the
property was a legal consideration of a contract or only a motive alleged for passing the laws. Upon this question many
authorities were cited on both sides.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court
This cause comes before this court upon a writ of error to
the Supreme Qourt of Pennsylvania, under the 25th section
of the act of Congress. of the' 24th September, 1789. In the
year 1833 the Legislatu'e of Pennsylvania passed an act which
recited "that Christ Church Hospital, in the city of Philadelphia, had for many years afforded an asylum to numerous poor
and fdistressed widows; who would probably else have become
a public charge; and it being represented that in consequence
of te decay of the buildings of the hospital estate, aud the increasing burden of taxes, its means are curtailed, and its usefulness limited," they enacted, "that the real property, including ground rents, now belonging and.payable to Christ Church
.Hospital, in the city of Philadelphia, so'long as the sdme shall
continue to bel6ng- to the said hospital '2lWL be and remain
free from taxes."
In the year 1851 the same authority en..2ted "that all property, real and personal, belonging to Any association or incor-

SUPREME COURT.
Rector, &c., of Christ Church, Phila.v. County of Phila.

porated company which is now by law exempt from taxation,
other than that which is in the actual use and occupation of
such association or incorporated company, and from which an
income or revenue is derived by the owners thereof, shall hereafter be subject to taxation in the same manner and for the
same purposes as other property is now by law taxable,-and
so mucli of any law as is hereby altered and supplied be and
the same is hereby repeaied." Itwas decided in the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, that the exemption conferred upon
these plaintiffs by the act of 1833 was partially repealed by
the act of 1851, and that an assessment of a portion of their
real property under the act of 1851 was not repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, as tending to impair a legislative contract they. alleged to be contained in the act of As
sembly of 1833 afbresaid.
The plaintiffs claim that the exemption conceded by the act
of 1833 is perpetual, and that the act itself is in efiect a contract. This. concession of the Legislature was spontaneous,
and no service or duty, or other remunerative condition, was
imposed on the corporation. It belongs to the class of laws
denominated privilegia favorabilia. It attached only to such
real property as belonged to the corporation, and while it remained as its property; but it is not a necessary implication
from these facts that the concession is perpetual, or was designed to continue during the corporate existence.
Such an interpretation is not to be favored, as the power of
taxation is necessary to the existence of the State, and must be
exerted according to the varying conditions of the Commonwealth. The act of 1833 belongs to a class of statutes-in which
the narrowest meaning is to be taken which will fairly carry
out the intent of the Legislature, All laws, all .political institutions, are dispositions for the future, and their professed object is to afford a steady and permanent security to the interests of society. Bentham says, "that all laws may be said to
be framed with a view to perpetuity; but perpetual is not
synonymous to irrevocable; and the principle on which all
laws ought to be, and the greaterpart of them have been es.
tablished, is that of defeasible perpetuity-a perpetuity defeasi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

303 .

"i gins et al. v. Gray et al.

ble by an alteration of the -circumstances and reasons on which
the law is founded." The inducements that moved the Legislature to concede the -favor contained in the act of 1833 are
special, and were probably t emporary in their operation. The
usefulness of the corporation had been curtailed in consequence of the decay of their buildings and the burden of taxes.
It may be supposed- that in eighteen years the buildings
would be renovated, and that the corporation would be able'
afterwards to sustain some share of the taxation of the State.~
The act of 1851 embodies the sense of the Legislature to this
effect.

It is in the nature of such a privilege as the act of 1833 confers, that it. exists bene pladitum, and may be revoked at the
pleasure of the sovereign.
Such was the conclusion of the courts in Commonwealth v.
Bird, 12. MIass,, 442; Dale v. Governor,- 3 Stew., 887; Alex"ander v. Willington, 2 Russ. and M., 35; 12 Harris, 232;
-Lindley's Jurisp., ec. 42.
It is the opinion of" the court that there is no error in the
judgment of the Supreme Court, within the scope of the writ
to that court, and its judgment is affirnied.

WLI&A WiGnMs, J&hMES M. JoNEs, AND Jomr B. WgiLii,
CoMPLAINANTS, v. JoN B. GRAY AND Thow- s TAYLOo.
The Circuit Court certified that they had divided in opinion upon a question
whether a party had a right to proceed summarily on motion to vacate a decree
in that court.
The question certified is merely one of practice, to be governed by the rules prescribed by this court, and the established principles and usages of a chancery
court. And even if a summary proceeding on.motion might have been a
legitimate mode of proceeding, yet the court, in its discretion, had a right to
refuse, and to order a plenary proceeding by bill and answer. The. exercise
of such a discretionary power by the court below cannot be revised in this
court upon appeal or certificate of division, and this court therefore decline
expressing any opinion on the-question certified.

THIs case came up on a certificate of a division of opinion

