SUI'EMECOURT.
t1dl v. Papin.

claims. This case must follow the sume course that was assumed in those.
Judgment of the District Court reversed, and 'petition dismissed.

WILLIAM

A.

HALL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH L.

PAPIN

An act of Congress passed on the 15th of May, 1829, (3 Stat. at L., 605,)
authorizes perions who claim lot.&in the village of Peoria, in Illinois, to notify
the register of the land office, who was d.rected to report to the Secretary of
the Treasury, to be laid by him before Congress.
An act of March 3, 1823, (3 Stat. at L., 786,) grants to each one of the settlers
who had settled on a lot prior to the 1st of January, 1813, the lot so settled on
and improved, where the same shall nbt exceed two acres; Rnd where the
same shall exceed two acres, every such claimant shall be confirmed in a
quantity not exceeding ten acres: Provided, the right of any other person
derived from the United States, or any other source whatever, &c., shall not
be affected7
These two statutes were drawn into question inthe case of Bryan et al. v. For,
syth, 19 Howard, 334iwhere it was ruled that "in the interval between 1823
and the survey a patent was -taken out, which was issued subject to all the
rights of persons claiming under the act of 1823. This patent was controlled
by the subsequent survey."
In the present case the patent is not controlled, by the subsequent survey, for the
following reasons:
The old village of Peoria was settled very early in the history of the country, but
abandoned before the years 1796, 1797, and the new village of Peoria built up
at the distance of a mile and a half.
The act of March, 1823, applies only to the new town, and the land in question
is an out-lot or field of ten acres near the old village of Peoria.
Papin, the plaintiff below, claimed under a plat of the village made in May, 1837,
approved September, 1841, and a deed to himself from the confirmee made in

1854.
Hall, the defendant below, claimed under a pre-emption certificate of 1833, a
patent from the United States in 1837 to Seth and Josiah Fulton, and a deed
to himself from the patentees in 1888.
Supposing that no out-lot was meant to be confirmed, the inchoate right of the
claimant under the act was subject to a survey and designation before it could
be matured into a title.
An instruction given by the court below to the jury, viz: that the persons taking
under the patent of March 18, 1837, and under the entry of July 11, 1833,
must be considered as taking their grant subject to the contingency of the
better title which might thercafter be perfected under the acts of 1820 and

I)iiLj;dsjvi..h

'BAI~,

W8(iu.

Hall v. -Papin.
1823;. and when a party brought himself within those acts, his ' le was the
paramount title, notwithstanding the patent to the Fultons was erroneous.
So,also, it was error in the court below to refuse to instruct the jury, that if they
believed from the evidence that by the plaintiff's recovering in this case the
legal representatives of Willette would be confirmed in more than ten acres
of Peoria French claims, they were to fid for the defendant.
The true construction of the act is, that a claimant was to have one confirmation
of "a lot so settled and improved," which had been claimed and entered in
the report of the register of the land office at Edwardsville, in pur.uanc.e of
the act of May 15,1820; that no claimant, though he shall appear in the register's report as having made several claims,, could, after having had one of
them confirmed, transfer any right of property in the others to any person
whatever.

Tuis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court if the United States for the northeri 'district of Illinois.
The dispute arose under the two acts of'f-ongress passed in.
1820 and 1823, confirning the claims of settlers in the village
of Peoria, which are particularly mentioned in the opihion of
the court, and which were also examined in a case reported
in 19 Howard, 334. The instructions of the. court be-low are
also set forth in the present opinion, which rendersit unnecessary'to state them in this place.
It was submitted on a printed argument by Mr. Browninq
for the plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Merriman an'd Mr. Blair
for the. defendant
It will be observed that the principal point upon which the
-decision of this court turned was, that the lots in questio-n
were outside of the village of Peoria. Mr.Browninq brought
this point before the court in the following manner:
The plaintiff in error (defendant 'below) asked the court to
,nstruct the jury, "that if they believed, from the evidence,
that the original French settlement or improvement, upon
which the plaintiff's claim in this suit is based, was not upon
or within the northwest quarter of section three,'in township
eight north, in range eight cast, of the fourth principal ineridianh, nor located upon that quarter section by the Uiiitud
States surveyor until after that quarter section was sold to

SUPREME COURT.
Hall v. Papin.

the Fultons by the United States, they, the jury, are to find
for the defendant."
Which instruction the court refiused to give; but, oni the contrary, instructed the jury that the acts of Congress of 1820
and 1823, taken in connection with the report of the register
of the land office and the survey under the authority of the
law, vested in the party entitled tinder the acts of Congress an
absolute right of property in tife lot so surveyed; and that the
surveys, for the purposes of this action, made the title of the
claimant, under the acts of Congress, complete; and that the
persons taking under the patent of March 18, 1837, as well as
of the entry of July 11, 1833, being the same grant, took their
grant sobject to the contingency of the better title which
might thereafter be perfected under the acts of 1820 and 1822;
and that when a party brought himself within these acts, his
title was the paramount title, notwithstanding the patent to
the Fultons.
Now, this instruction virtually admits that the land in controversy never had been settled upon or improved by any of
the French or Canadian inhabitants of the village of Peoria,
and that it was no part of the village, but quite and altogether
outside of and beyond its limits; for the defendant below had
proven this state of fact, or given evidence strongly tending to
prove it; and the.court told the jury, substantially, that it was
wholly immaterial whether it had ever been settled upon and
improved or not, or whether it had ever been a part of the village of Peoria or not; for that the title of the plaintiff, by virtue of the laws of 1820 and 1823, and by virtue of the survey
made, not upon the land of the United States, but upon the
land of the Fultons, was made absolute, and paramount to the
title of the Fultons, notwithstanding the Fultons had the first
grant from the Government. Or, to put it in another form,
the instruction amounted simply to this: That on the 11tlh
July, 1883, and the 18th March, 1837, when the land was sold
and patented to the Fultons, said land belonged, absolutely
and exclusively, to the United States, and that the French
settlers at Peoria had no right to or interest in it, inasmuch as
they had never had any settlement or improvement upon it,

)ECEM BER TERM, 1860.

135

Hall v. Papin.

and it had never been any part of their village; that the Govermnent owning it,had a right to do with it as it pleased,
and that in the exercise of that right it had sold and granted
it to the Fultons, thereby parting with all its right, title, and
interest in it, and all power and control over it; but that, notwitlstauding this, it could authorize a survey of it under a
law which had no reference whatever to this land, but to land
upon which the French had settled and improved; and by
virtue of such survey, take Fultons' land and appropriate it to
the satisfaction) of a French claim, which, in reference to this
land, had never had an existence.
Now, let it be conceded, as it is by the instruction of the
court, that there was never any French settlement or improvement oil this land, and that it was no part of the village of
Peoria-then, I ask, by what right, or upon what principle, it
can be taken for the satisfaction of a claim in the village of
Peoria, after it has.ceased to be the property of the United
States and has become the property of a private citizen ? I
freely concede that whilst it remained the property of the
United States they could authorize any part, or the whole of
it, to be given in satisfaction of French claims, although the
French settlements and improvements had never been on or
near it. But I do not comprehend how, after the Government
had parted vith its interest, had sold and conveyed to the
Fultons, it could authorize it to be taken for the satisfaction
of a French claim, or for any other purpose. Its power over
it was gone, and it could no more take this than it could
take land situated anywhere else, which it had previously
sold and granted away.
It is admitted that the surveyor might go outside of the
original French settlement and locate a claim upon any land
belonging to the Governmentjfor the Government had a right
to do as it pleased with its own, and to authorize the location of a claim where no settlement had previously been, and
to confirm such location after it was so made; but it is emphatically denied that he could go outside of the original settlement and locate upon the land of an individual, in which
the Government had no interest. If lie could go off the set-

S UPREME (O URT.
Hall v. Papin.

tlement, outside of the village at all, where was he .t6 stop ?
what limit was there to his discretion or power? If he could
go a half nile, could he not go a mile? and if one, could he
not go ten ? Could he not, in fact, go to the uttermost bounds
of the land district? Mere contiguity of Fultons' land'to the
old French village of Peoria gave the French claimants no
more right to it than they had to land situated ten miles distant, and which had been sold by the United States after the
passage of the laws of 1820 and 1823. Yet the court told the
jury that although no part of the original French settlement
or improvement, upon which the claim is based, was upon the
land sued for, nor located upon it by the United States surveyor until after it had been sold to the Fultons by the United States, still, the Fultons took the land subject to the contingency of its being thereafter taken from them to satisfy
this French claim. How did the Fultons take their land subject to such a contingency, any more than other purchasers
from tb, Government? There had originally been no French
settlemelit upon it, and when they bought, no claim had been
surveyed or located upon it. When the United States sold,
its title was perfect and the land unincumbered, and they
sold and granted absolutely, unconditionally, and without
reservatiou of any kind or character. It was no part of the
contract botween the Fultons and the United States that they
should take the laud subject to the contingency of its being
afterwards retaken and disposed of to another. If they took
their land subject to such a contingency, did not every other
person in that land district who purchased land from the
United States, after the passage of the laws .of 1820 and 1823,
take it subject to the same contingency? There was nothing
in the character or quality of the land purchased by the Fultons, nor in the nature of their contract with the United
States, to distinguish them from other purchasers from the
Governrent. They took upon the same terms, and they held
by the same tenure, with all others who purchased land to
which the Government had title; and I ask again, what was
there in this transaction to distinguish it from any other case
of an absolute and- unconditional sale of land by the United

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

137

Hall v. Papin.

State to which they had title, or to subject the Fultons to the
contingency of having it taken from them, after they had fairly
bought it, paid for it, and received a patent therefor? If they
are to be made an exception to all the general rules of law and
property, they.oughit, at least, to be informed why. It-is not
because there had been a French settlement. and improvement
upon.their land, for this is disproved. Not because it had
b~en surveyed, aiid a French claim located therebn before
they bought,_for no such thing-had been done." 'Not because
they made a conditional purchase, for the United States conveyed to them absolutely, and without condition or reservation.
No reason whatever is perceived -for making an exception of
this ease.
If the instructions given by the couit to the jury.a're right,
it must be because they contain a general principle of law,
applicable to all cases in the same ]ad district with Peoria,
for there is nothihg in this case to distinguish it from any
other; and that general principle, as declared by the court, is,
that all persons who purchased from .the United States in that
land district, after the pass.age of the laws of 1820 and 1823,
took their land subject to the contingency :of having it retakeii, to satisfy French claims. This certainly cannot be so.
Upon this point, Mr. Merriman remarked as follows.:
The second assignment of errors is upon the refusal of the.
court to grant the instructiong asked by-the defendants below.
The first of which is,' that if the jury should believe, from the
evidence, the original French settlement upon which the suit
is based was not upon "orwithin the N. W. 3,8-N., 8 E., nor
located thereon by *theUnited States surveyor until after that
quarter section had been sold by the United States to the
Fultons, they should find for the*defenaant, which instruction
was refused; and the third in'struction of the court was given
upon that point-to which instruction the court is :eferred.
The instruction, as asked, was improper, for tworeasons:
first, there was no evidence' tending to show a different location'of the lot in controversy; -and secondly5 for the reasons
stated in the said instruction of the con -t. The lot was grant-

188

8U.!It'iMtI

UUUIV.

Hall v. Papin.

ed to the settler or his legal representative in 1823, while the
land belonged to the Government; and by the terms of the
act, the located lot was to be designated, surveyed, and set
apart to such settler, by the surveyor of the district. This
survey was a duty enjoined upon the said officer, and it was a
portion of the grant, and, as such, was notice to all persons
afterwards purchasing of Government. Although the report
of Edward Coles, containing a diagram of said claims, did not
state, in numbers, the township, range, or section, -upon which
said settlement was made, yet it stated the location of said village
so fully and particularly, together with its village lots and outlots, that although, perhaps, the precise bbundaries could not be
asoertained without a survey, yet no one, by looking at the
report and diagram of Coles, and comparing it with the sectional map of the township, including said village, could avoid
the conclusion that this lot, thirteen, was wholly orin part on the
quarter section claimed by plaintiff in error; the location of the
village on the lake, the distance of this lot from the main village, the size ofthelots between thislot and the main village, was
sufficient notice of the probable location of this lot; and this,
followed up by the fact that this village and out-lots were
mostly located by the surveyor on said section three, and the
evidence in this case of the marks of the old French cultivation,
and which must have been plainer still at the time of the first
settlement of said quarter section, are, we think, sufficient
evidence of notice, if notice had been required. The courts
will take judicial notice of all acts of Congress, as well as of
the location of the different townships, ranges, and sections,
by their Congressional divisions.
The record shows a space of time between the survey of
the lot and the approval of such survey of over three years,
during which time, if there were any objections to such survey, the parties interested should have filed their objections
with the surveyor of said district. It cannot be said that they
did not have plenty of time and opportunity for so doing.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit for the recovery of ten acres of land, which is

DEIC|MI;V4. I1 11EIVV,

ibiju.

169

Hall v. Papin.

admitted by the parties to be a part of the 'northwest quarter
of section three, in township eight north, of range eight east,
of the fourth principal meridian, in the district of lands subject to sale formerly at Springfield, Illinois, and afterwards at
Quincy.
Upon the trial below, the plaintiff gave in evidence: 1st, ,the
act of Congress of May 15, 1820, entitled, all act for the relief
of the inhabitants of the village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois; 2d, the act of the 3d March, 1823; 3d, the report of Edward
Coles, in the 3d vol. State Papers, page 421; 4th, the special
and general plat and field-notes of' the survey of the village,
made May 11, 1837, approved September 1, 1841, and approved by the surveyor of public lands in Illinois and Missouri; 5th, the deed of lot 13 by Bartholomew Fortier and
his wife, Angelica, to plaintiff, September 23, 1854; 6th, depositions showing that Angelica was the only representative
of Francis Willette,-and that, when she made her claim before
J. W. Coles, she was the wife of Louis Pilette, and that she
married Fortier in 1838:
The defendant below here the plaintiff in error, introduced
in evidence a patent from the United States to Seth and Josiah
Fulton, dated March 18, 1837, a pre-emption certificate of the
same, laid July 11, 1833, and a conveyanbe by the Fultons to
him of the land covered by the patent dated the 11th July,
1838. The patentees, Seth ind Josiah Fulton, had lived upon
the quarter section for several years before their entry was
made, and Hall, also, had occupied the quarter section for some
years before the F Ultons sold.to him.

Also, a patent from

the United States to the representatives of Francis Willette,
for a lot which had been claimed by them under the act of the
3d March, 1823, and sundry depositions, which it is not necessary f& us to notice in this opinion.
The detendant in error, Joseph L. Papin, claims the ten
acres sued for in virtue of his purchase from Bartholomew
Fortier, and Angelica, lis wife, she being the sole representative of her father, and trnd. claimed the land under the act of
Congress of the 15th May, 1820, 3 Stat. at Large, 605, and
that of the 3d March, 1823, U. S. Stat. at Large, 786.

SUPREME COUtT.
Hall v. Papin.

The first of these acts declares, that "every Verson, or the
legal representatives of any person, who claims -a lot or lots in
the village of Peoria, in-the State ofIllinois, shall, on or before the first day of October next, deliver to the register of
the land office for the district of EdwardsVille a notice in
writing of his or her claim, and it shall be the duty of the
register to make to the Secretary of the'Treasury a report of
all claims filed with him, with the substance of the evidence,
in support thereof; and also his opinion, bnd such remarks
respecting the claim as he may think proper to make; which
report, with a list of the claims which, in the opinion of the
register, ought to be confirmed, shall be laid by the Secretary
of the Treasury before Congress for their determination."
Under this act claims were made by Louis Pilette in right of
his wife, Angelica, the daughter of Francis Willette, and they
appear in the register's report, dated the 10th November, 1820,
entered as numbers 11, 12, and 18. That report, however, was
not finally acted upon by Congress until the 3d March, 1823.
The first section of that act declares, "there is. hereby -granted
to each of the French and Canadign inhabitants, and other
-settlers in the village of Peoi'ia, in the State of Illinois, whose
claims are contained in a report made by the register of the
land office at Edwardsville, in pursuance of the act of Congress approved May 15, 1820, and who had settled a lot in the
village aforesaid prior to the first 'day of January, 1818, and
who have not heretofore receivid a confirnmatory claim or donation of any tract of land or vilge lot from the United
States, the lot so settled upon and improved, -where the same shall
not exceed two acres; and where the-same shall exceed two
acres, every such claimant shall be confirmed in a quaiitity
not exceeding ten acres: Provided, nothing in this act contained shall be so construed- as to affect the right, if any such
there be, of any other person or persons to the said lots, or
any part of them, derived from the United States, or any other
source Vhatever, or be construed as a pledge on the part of
the United States to make good any deficiency occasioned by
any other interfering claim or claims." And it was made the
duty of the survey6r of the public lands of the United States

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

141

Hall v. Papin.

for that district to cause a survey to be made of the several
lots, and to designate in a plat thereof the lots confirmed and
set apart to "each claimant, and forward the same to the Secretary of the Treasury, who shall cause patents to be issued in
favor of such claimants, as in other cases.
The land sued for is described in the declaration as an outlot or field of ten acres, near. the old village of Peoria,in the
State of Illinois, confirnzd to Louis Pilette in right of his wife,
Angelica,. the daughter of the late Francis W Ilette, by the
act of Corigress of the 3d March, 1823, entitled "-An act to
confirm certain lots in the village of Peoria, it being claim
Nwo. 13 of the report made by the register of the land office at
Edwardsville, in pursuance of an act of Congress of the 15th
May, 1820." The lot is claimed in the report of the register
as an out-lot or field, containing fifteen or. twenty arpents of
land, situated three-fourths of a mile northeastwardly (northwestwardly) from the village of Peoria. There can be no uncertainty whether the old or new village was meant, as the
survey establishes it to have been near the old; and in our
consideration of the act of the 3d March, 1823, our conclusion
is, that that act can only embrace lots in the new village, or
others appertaining to it.
The old village of Peoria was situated on the northwest
shore of Lake Peoria, about one mile and a half above the
lower extremity or outlet of the lake. The village had been
established by Frenchmen at, an early date, previous to the
recollection of any one. About- the years 17.78, 1779, the
first house was built on what was then called La Ville de
Maillet, afterwards the new villge of Peoria, and afterwards
known by the name of Fort Clark. It was. situated about one
mile and a half below the old village, immediately at the lower
front or outlet of the lake. This situation was preferred on
account of -the water being better and the place more healthy
-than at the old village. In consequence, the inhabitants gradually deserted the old village, and before the years 1796, 1797,
had entirely abandoned it, and removed to the new village.
The inhabitants were generally Indian traders, hunters, and
voyagers. They formed a link of connection between the

SUPREME COURT.
Hall v. Papin.

French residing on the waters of the great lakes and the Mississippi river. From that happy facility of adapting themselves to their situation and associates for which the French
arc so remarkable, the inhabitants of Peoria generally lived
in harmony with their savage neighbors. But about the year
1781, an apprehension of Indian hostilities induced them to
abandon the new village. They returned to it, however, after
the peace of 1783, between England and the United States
and the powers which had engaged in our revolutionary war,
and continued there until the autumn of the year 1812. Then
they were forcibly removed from it and their village destroyed
by a Captain Craig, of the Illinois militia, on the ground, it
was said, that himself and his company had b)een fired upon
in the night by Indians, while at anchor in their boats before the village, with whom Craig suspected the villagers to
be on too intimate and friendly terms. Craig and his company were in the service of the United States. The inhabitants of Peoria settled there without any grant or permission
from any Government. Each person took such a portion of
unoccupied land as he wished to occupy and cultivate; but as
soon as he abandoned it, his right to the land ceased with his
possession, and it reverted to its natural state. It was then
liable to be improved and cultivated by any who thought
proper to take possession. Sometimes a settler sold out his
improvements before abandoning. That and the itinerant
character of the inhabitants, account for the number of persons who claimed the same lot. As was usual in French villages, the lots in the village were small. They were large
enough for houses, out-houses, and gardens, and in some instances, those who were able to do so cultivated what were
known as out-lots or fields near to, but outside or beyond, the
village. Those out-fields were of different sizes, depending
upon the industry and means of persons to till them. The
village lots, as contradistinguished from out-lots, contained
generally the half of an arpent. Neither the old nor new
village had ever been surveyed or occupied upon any fixed
plan. Seventy claims were made under the act of the 15th
May, 1820. They were returned on the report of the register

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Hall v. Papin.

to the Secretary of the Treasury, on the 10th of November,
1826. In a little less than three years the act of 1823 was
passed. Coles's Report, 3 Am. State Papers, Land.
The narrative just given has an important bearing upon the
construction 'of the acts of 1820 and 1823. It serves to show
the locality of the village of Peoria, for which those acts were
passed, the purposes to be accomplished, and the extent and
conditions upon which a lot may be confirmed to a claimant
who had settled and improved a lot in the village before the first
day of January, 1813, and who had not before received a confirmation of claims, or donation of any tract of land or village
lot from the United States, when the lot settled upon and improved did not exceed two acres; and when it did, to confirm
to the claimant ten acres, subject to the proviso in the act.
I It was a gratuity to such settlers of a single lot in the village. Such was the first section of the act of 3d March, 1823.
It gave to the claimant an incipient or inchoate right to a lot,
when, in conformity with the second section of the act, a survey had been made of the several lots reported by the register,
with a designation or a plat thereof of the lot confirmed and set apart
to each claimant. When that had been done, the claimant became a confirmee under the act; and his fight to the lot, as
-between himself and the United States, was complete. Such
was the view taken by thi court of the acts of 15th May,
1820, and of the 3d March, 1823, -inBryan and Forsyth, 19
Howard, 336. Its language then was, Nihen the survey was
made, and the plats returned and approved and reborded by
the surveyor general of Illinois and Missouri, and recognised
as valid at the General Land Office, it bound the parties to it,
the confirmee and the United States.
The law was intended to grant the lot settled upon and improved, and no othor land described as an equivalent. But,
in this instance, no survey was made in conformity with the
2d section of the act until the 11th April, 1837. It was not
examined and approved by the surveyor of the public 'lands
in Illinois and Missouri until the first September, 1840, seven
years after Seth and Josiah Fulton had made theiri entry upon
the quarter section, and three years after they had received

SUPREME' COURT.
Hall v. Papin.

their patent for it from the United States. The land was
unconditionally sold to them. Hall, the plaintiff in error,
bought from the Fultons in July, 1838. Under the decision
of this court, already cited, no location of the out-lots could
be made upon this qiuarter section after the patent had been
issued, to the Fultons. It follows, then, that'there was no
confirmation of the land sued for to the representative of
Francis Willette; and, consequently, that the quit-claim conveyance by Angelica Fortier and her husband, of the 23d
September, 1854, to Papin, the defendant in error, gave to
her no tile to the ten acres for which he has sued. We have
shown that the inchoate right of the claimant under the actsuI posing that no out-lot was meant to be confirmed-was
subject to a survey and designation before it could be matured
into a title. The requirement of a survey before a claimant
could be considered as having a legal title to land upon a concessicn, has frequently been passed upon by this court; and
the case before us is within that of Menard Heirs v. Massey,
in 8 Howard, 309.
Itnow remains for us to consider two of the instructions
which were asked by the defendant in the court below, which
the court refused to give to the jury.
They were: If the jury believed from the evidence that the
original French settlement or improvement, upon which the
plaintiff's claim in this suit is based, was not upon or within
the northwest quarter of section 3, in township eight north, in
range eight, east of the 4th meridian, nor located upon that quarter section by the United States sureyor until after that was sold to
the Fultons by the United States, that the jury were to find for the
defendant.
The court did not give the first branch of the instructions
asked, and, in our opinion, rightly so; for there was no proof
in' the case to show that the French -settlement, which was the
basis of the suit, was not a part of it. Indeed, no such instruction would have been asked; for it was admitted by the
parties that the tract sued for was a part of the quarter section
described in the patent to the Fultons. But the court refused,
also, the second branch of the prayer, which, in our opinion,

DECEMBER TE RM, 1860.

146

Hall v. Papin.

should have been given, and gave the jury an instructi -u as
follow s: He told the jury that the acts of Congress of 1820
and 1823, taken in connection with the report of the register
of the land office and the survey under the authority of law,
vested in the parties entitled, under the acts of Congress, with
an absolute right of property in the lot surveyed; and that
Angelica, the person named in the evidence, was the daughter
and sole heir of her father, Francis Willette, the settler; that
she was within the meaning of the law; and her claim being
in the report, was confirmed by the act of 1823.
And the jury was further instructed, that the sur ey of th
claimed lots, as reported by the register, was duly made -and approved, because the survey for the purposes. of this action
made the title of the claimants under the acts of Congress
complete; and that the court was of the opinion that the persons taking under the patent of Marhel 18th, 1837, and under
the entry of July 11th, 1833, must be considered as taking
their grant subject to the contingencr of the better title which
might thereafter be perfected under the acts of 1820 and 1823;
and when a party brought himself within those acts, his title
was the paramount title' notwithstandingthe patent to the Fultons.
The defendant, in our view, had asked for such an instruction as he had a right to have under the authorities cited in a
previous part of this opinion. The instruction given to the
jury was erroneous.
The defendant had also asked in his second prayer, that the
court would instruct the jury,. if they believed from the evideuce that by the plaintiffs recovering in this case the legal
representatives of Willette would be confirmed in more than
ten acres of Peoria French claims, that they were to find for
the defendant. The prayer is inartificially drawn; but whe-n
takien in connection with the evidence in the case and the act
of 1823, its purport could not have been misunderstood. The
object of the defendant was to get an instruction from the
court, upon the evidence he had given, in conformity with the
limitation in the act, as to the quantity of land which could
be confirmed to a claimant under it. It declames when the
lot shall not exceed two acres, that it shall be confirmed: and
VOL. XXIV.

10

. SUPREME COURT.
Hall v. Papin.

when the same shall exceed two acres, that every such claimant
4hall be confirmed in a quantity not exceeding ten acres.
. Pilette, the husband of Angelica, had filed in her behalf, in
the year 1820, before the register, claims for lots eleven, twelve,
and thirteen. The first, being the land numbered as number
.eleven, contained about one-half of an arpent of land; number
twelve the 'same quantity, situated directly in the rear of
eleven, and separated from it by a street; number thirteen
was a claim for an out-lot or field, containing fifteen or twenty
acres of land, and situated about three-fourths of a mile northeastwardly (northwestwardly) from the village of Peoria;
number eleven was also claimed before the register by Felix
Fontain, his claim being.in the report No. 41; but it turned
qit, according to the survey, that both were for the same land,
and that they covered the southwest part of Etienne Barnard's
claim number 1, .the northeast part of it being also covered
'by .another claim of Felix Fontain, numbered in the survey as
42. For" land .s6 described, containing fifty-four thousand
eighli hundred -and ninety and fourteen-hundredths of a square
foot,- designated as covered by the claims one, eleven, fortyone, and forty-two,, a patent was issued by the United States
to the representatives of Francis Willette, on the 28th August, 1845. That patent was introduced in evidence by the
defendant below, the plaintiff in error. The purpose was to
show that the heirs of Willtte having already had one confirmation of "a lot settled at.. improved," under the act of 3d
March, 1823, fat they were not entitled to another, or to any
confirmation of the title to the land in litigation. If that were
allowed, they would get more than the ten acres, to which
every claimant was limited by the act. Our construction of
the act is, that a claimant was to have one confirmation .of "a
lot so settled and improved," which had been claimed and
entered in the report of the register of the land office at Edwardsville, iii purstance of the- act of the 15th May, 1820;
that no claimant, though he shall appear in the register's report as having made several claims, could, after having had
one of them confirmed, transfer any right of property in the
.ethers to any persons whatever.

DECEM-BER TERK, 1860.
Eberly et al. v. Moore et al.

Papin, the plaintiff below, took from the representatives of
Willette a quit-claim conveyance for the land for which he
sues on the 23d September, 1854-more than thirty years after
the passage of the act of the 3d -arch, 1823-mbre than
twenty years after the Fultons had made their entry upon the
quarter section-eighteen years after they received their patent
for it from the United States-seventeen after Hall had the
land in possession by purchase from the Fultons, and ten
years after the patent of confirmation to the representatives
of Willette had been recorded in the General Land Office.
Under these circumstances, Papin took a conveyance, which
gave him no right to the land. When the plaintiff in error,
Hall, asked the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed
from the evidence that, by the plaintiff's recovery in this case,
the legal representatives of Francis Willette will have been
confirmed in more than ten aciws of Peoria French claims,
they were to find for the defendant, the prayer ought to have
been apprehended by the court, according to its°relation to the
subject-matter in controversy, and such an instruction should
have been given accordingly to the jury. The refusal, then,
was error.

For the reasons given, we shall direct the judgmnent of the
court below to be reversed; that a venirefacias de novo shall be
issued; and that the court, in its further proceedings in the
cause thereon, conform to the rulings of this opinion.

ANGELINA IR. EBERLY AND PEYTON LYTLE, BY HIS NEXT FRIEND,

A. B.

EBERLY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. LEWIS MOORE AND

CHARLES RAYLON.

After'the defendants had put in a plea in bar, they moved the court for leave to
withdraw the plea, and to plead in abatement that the plaintiffs had alleged
themselves to be citizens of another State, but were in reality the citizens of
the same State with themselves, in consequence of which the District Court
of the United States had not jurisdiction of the case.
rhe court allowed the motion and the plea in abatement to be filid. Being
satisfied by the verdict oena jury that the allegation of the plea was true, the
petition of the plaintiffs was dismissed.

