SUPREME COURT.
7
t Roeder et al.
Chandlerv. Yo

time they were filed for record. It is claimed for the defend.
ants that the recording of the grants was confirmed by the
act of 1839, which provided that "copies of all deeds, &c.,
when the originals remain in the public archives, and were
executed in conformity with the laws existing at their dates,
duly certified by the proper officers, shall be admitted to record
in the county where such land lies." This act relates to the
colonists' titles delivered to the grantee, the originals remaining
as public archives. The deeds in the present case are copies
of the originals remaining in the archives, and are certified by
Steele, the commissioner, that they agree with the original
titles which exist in the archives, from which they are taken
for the parties interested, the day of their date, in the form
provided by the law. In addition to this certificate, the copies,
which it seems are executed by the commissioner, and are
second originals, were proved before the recorder at the time
they were admitted to registry. But be this as it may, we are
not disposed to look very critically into the question of the
registry, though we cannot say the court was in error in respect to it, inasmuch as the defence was complete under the
statute of three years' limitation, as already explained.
An objection has been taken that the grants of the defendants are a nullity, upon the ground that Steele, the commissioner, had no authority to act in that capacity in the colony
of Nashville, or Robertson, at their date. But this defect was
cured by the act of the Republic of Texas in 1841, as has been
repeatedly held by the courts of Texas. (2 Tex. R., 1 and 37;
9 Ib., 348, 372; 23 Tex. R., 113 and 234; 22 Ib., 161 and 21;
Ib., 722; 20 How. R., 270.)
The judgment of the court-below affirmed.

JAMES A. CHANDLER, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. OTTO VON ROEDER, HAMIILTON LEDBETTER, AND CHARLES VON ROSENBURG.
ft is the duty of the court to determine the competency of evidence and to decide all legal questions that arise in the progi-ess of a trial; and consequently,

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

225

Cl andler v. Von Roeder et at.
when assuming that all the testimony adduced by the one or the other party
is true, it does or does not support his issue, its duty is to declare this clearly
and directly. Whether there be any evidence, is a question for the judge
whether there be sufficient evidence, is for the jury.
rherefore, where, in a land suit in Texas, the defendants pleaded the statute of
limitations, and the documentary evidence showed that neither the plea of five
years' possession nor three years' possession (see preceding case in this volume)
could be sustained, it was errroneous for the judge to leave that question to

the jury.
It was also error in the judge to exclude testimony to show that the deed was
fraudulent under which the defendant claimed., The Supreme Court of Texas
have decided that conveyances made with an intent to defraud creditors are
void.
The decision of the court upon another point having been favorable to the plaintiff, he has no cause of complaint against the ruling of the court.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Distric.
Court of the United States for the western district of Texas.
It was a petition by Chandler in the nature of an action of
trespass, as well to try title to a certain league of land in
.Texas as to recover damages.
The nature of the case and the rulings of the court below
are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. Paschalfor the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr. Hale and Mr. Robinson for the defendants.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff claimed in the District Court a league of land
in the couity of Fayette, originally granted, by the Mexican
Government to William H. Jack, and which was in the possession of the defendants. His title consists of a record of a suit
in one of the district courts of Texas, in favor of Bremond
and Van Alstyne against a number of persons associated under
the name of the German Emigration Company, founded upon
notes and bills of the company, dated in the years 1846 and
1847, and upon which judgment was recovered in 1852.
-An execution was issued upon thisjudgment, and a levy, sale,
and conveyance of the property in controversy were made in
1853, according to the exigency of the writ The plaintiff was
VOL. xxrv.

15

SUPREME COURT.
Chandlerv. Von Roeder et al.

the purchaser at the sale. There was testimony conducing to
prove that Von Roeder entered upon the land as the agent of
the company. The defendants, iii their answer, denied the
sufficiency of this title, and pleaded that they had had adverse
and peaceable possession of the land for more than five years
under deeds duly registered, and had paid taxes thereon; and
also that they had possessed the land peaceably for more than
three years under title, or color of title, derived from the
sovereign authority, thus olaiming the benefit of the 15th and
16th sections of the act of limitations. Hartley's Dig., arts.
2,391, 2,392.
The title exhibited on the trial by the defendants consisted
of a deed .purporting to be made by the German Emigration
Company, through an attorney, Gustavus Dressell, in the
year 1848, in favor of the defendant, Von Roeder, in which
this and other property was conveyed, to him, and deeds
from Von Roeder to the co-defendants dated in 1850, and
that the defendants had had adverse possession under them.
There was not five" years from the date of the deed to Von
Roeder to the commencement of the suit, and there was no
testimony to show in what manner the German Emigration
Company had become entitled to the property. No conveyance from William H. Jack, the original grantee, was produced either to the company or to the defendants. Thus,
the pleas of the statute of limitations were not proved.
The plaintiff's counsel requested the court to instruct the
jury that there is no documentary evidence, title, or color
of title, to support these pleas of the defendants. The court
declined to advise the jury as requested, but after informing
them of the. nature of the title and possession that would
support such pleas, directed the jury to inquire whether
the defendants had adduced sufficient evidence to sustain
them. The entire case, in so far as these pleas were concerned, was contained in written documents and undisputed facts.
It is the duty of the court to determine the competency of
evidence, and to decide all legal questions that arise in the
progress of a trial, and consequently, when, assuming that all
the testimony adduced by the one or the other party is true.

DEbiFEMBER TERM, 1860.

227

Chandlerv. Von Roeder et al.

it does or does not support his issue, its duty is to declare this
clearly and directly. Whethr there there be any evidence is
a question forthe judge; whetherthere be sufficient evidence
is for the jury.
Company of Carpenters v. Hay~ood, Doug., 375.
Jewell v. Parr, 13 0. B. R., 909.
The court erred in refusing to instruct the jury asrequested,
and in submitting the decision of questiofis when there was
no evidence to raise them. The defendants having introduced their title, the plaintiff'proposed to prpduc6 testimony
of a variety of circumstances to show that the possession of
the property by Von Roeder .was collusive .and fraudulent,
and that the deed was made to him with the intent to defraud
and delay the creditors of the German Emigration Company,
who were insolvent.
The Vourt overruled this attempt of the .plaintiff, and oxcluded all testim6 ny to establish fraud or collusion. The
statute of the-13th Elizabeth concerning fraudulent. conveyances has been adopted in Texas. The Supreme Court of
that State have decided that when a deed is a mere pretence,
collusively devised, and the parties do not intend other than
an ostensible change of the property, the property does not
pass as to creditors; and even when'the parties intend an ir:
revocable, disposition of the property, but the. conveyance has
been made with -the intent to defraud creditors, that the conveyance is void.
Baldwin v. Peete, 22 Texas R., 708.
This decision conforms to the current doctrine relative to
the just construction of this statute. The plaintiff proposed
to prove that the deed to Von Roeder was fraudulent within
the meaning of the act. The bills and notes upon which the
judgment was founded were filed as part of the record, and
and are certified with the judgment-of the District Court.
These show that the plaintiffs in the suit were creditors at
the date of the 'conveyance to Von Roeder, and within the
protection of the statute of frauds.
Without -considering the particular testimony'offered, it is

SUPREME COURT.
\ Pearceet al. v. Page et al.

our opinion that the District Court erred in refusing to receive
evidence to impeach the deed for fraud.
The plaintiff objected to the introduction of the deed to
Von Roeder as testimony, because it was not shown that there
was such a corporation as the German association, and because
a letter of attorney to Dressel was not exhibited. The deed
was admissible, because it appeared that the defendants held
their possession under it. But whether it was sufficient evidence of title in the German Emigration Company, or of
transfer to the defendants, were questions which it was competent to the court to determine in its instructions to the
jury. It appears from the charge that the decision of the
court was favorable to the plaintiff. He, consequently, has
no cause for complaint upon his exceptions to the competency
of the evidence.
For the errors we have noticed the judgment of the District
Court is reversed, and the cause remanded for further pro.
ceedings.

CHRISTOPHER G. PEARCE AND OTHERS, INCORPORATED AND ACTING UNDER THE NAME OF THE NILES WORKS, APPELLANTS,
JESSE W.

i.

PAGE AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF THE STEAMBOAT

DOCTOR ROBERTSON.

In a collision which took place in the Ohio river between a steamboat ascending
and a flat-boat descending, .the steamboat was in fault.
When a floating boat follows the course of the current, the steamer must judge
of its course, so as to avoid it. This may be done by a 5roper exercise of
skill, which the steamer is bound to use.
Any attempt to give a direction to the floating mass on the river would be likely
to embarrass the steamer, and subject it to greater hazards. A few strokes
of an engine will be sufficient to avoid any float upon the river which is
moved only by the current, and this is the established rule of navigation.

Tmis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Kentucky, sitting in admiralty.
It was a libel filed in the District Court of Kentucky by
Pearce and others against the steamboat Doctor Robertson,

