DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
idted States v. 0Vtana et al.

date. iHence the necessity of changing the venue -to "that of
the highway, when it was too late to alter or erase the ce:tificate of record to suit it. And hence the absurd contradictions
exhibited in the testimony of Moreno, who appears to be
emulating the example of his predecessor.
The judgment of the District Court is therefore affirmed,
with costs.
THt UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. CLAUDE CHANA, WILLIAM
MARTIN, THOMAS P TURNER, AND ALBERT ROWE.
[he decision of this court in the cases of United States v. Nye, 21 Howard, 408,
and United States v. Rose, 23 Howard, 262, again affirmed; and as the testimony in the present case is similar to that offered in the above cases, the
juidgment of the District Court in favor of the claimant is reversed.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
.States for the northern district of California.
The claim was based upon Sutter's general title, which has
been explained in some of the preceding volumes of these Reports.
It was submitted on printed argument by Mr. Black (Attorney General) for the United States, no counsel appearing
for the appellees. It appears to have been confirmed by the
court below before they knew the decision of this court with
regard to Sutter's general title.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees presented their claim before the board of
commissioners for the settlement of land claims in California
for a tract of land, consisting of four leagues, on the south
side of Bear creek, in Yuba county, under a grant to Theodore Sicard by Micheltorena, Governor of the Department of
California..
The testimony io sustain the claim is similar to that offerea
in the cases of United States v. Nye, 21 How., 408, and United States v. Rose, 28 How., 262. In these cases it was determineil that the testimony was not sufficient to support the

SUI'EMECOURT.
t1dl v. Papin.

claims. This case must follow the sume course that was assumed in those.
Judgment of the District Court reversed, and 'petition dismissed.

WILLIAM

A.

HALL, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOSEPH L.

PAPIN

An act of Congress passed on the 15th of May, 1829, (3 Stat. at L., 605,)
authorizes perions who claim lot.&in the village of Peoria, in Illinois, to notify
the register of the land office, who was d.rected to report to the Secretary of
the Treasury, to be laid by him before Congress.
An act of March 3, 1823, (3 Stat. at L., 786,) grants to each one of the settlers
who had settled on a lot prior to the 1st of January, 1813, the lot so settled on
and improved, where the same shall nbt exceed two acres; Rnd where the
same shall exceed two acres, every such claimant shall be confirmed in a
quantity not exceeding ten acres: Provided, the right of any other person
derived from the United States, or any other source whatever, &c., shall not
be affected7
These two statutes were drawn into question inthe case of Bryan et al. v. For,
syth, 19 Howard, 334iwhere it was ruled that "in the interval between 1823
and the survey a patent was -taken out, which was issued subject to all the
rights of persons claiming under the act of 1823. This patent was controlled
by the subsequent survey."
In the present case the patent is not controlled, by the subsequent survey, for the
following reasons:
The old village of Peoria was settled very early in the history of the country, but
abandoned before the years 1796, 1797, and the new village of Peoria built up
at the distance of a mile and a half.
The act of March, 1823, applies only to the new town, and the land in question
is an out-lot or field of ten acres near the old village of Peoria.
Papin, the plaintiff below, claimed under a plat of the village made in May, 1837,
approved September, 1841, and a deed to himself from the confirmee made in

1854.
Hall, the defendant below, claimed under a pre-emption certificate of 1833, a
patent from the United States in 1837 to Seth and Josiah Fulton, and a deed
to himself from the patentees in 1888.
Supposing that no out-lot was meant to be confirmed, the inchoate right of the
claimant under the act was subject to a survey and designation before it could
be matured into a title.
An instruction given by the court below to the jury, viz: that the persons taking
under the patent of March 18, 1837, and under the entry of July 11, 1833,
must be considered as taking their grant subject to the contingency of the
better title which might thercafter be perfected under the acts of 1820 and

