DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

435

Curis v. County of Butler.
rule of property there, and without re-examining their own
opinion, or making any attempt to account for or to reconcile
the difference, without any hesitation applied the rule adopted
in Texas to the determination of controversies existing there.
The cases reported in the 8th Howard, referred to, carne before this court upon a division of opinion between 'the experienced judges of the Circuit Court of the southern district of
New York. The authority of Clarke v. Van Surley was thus
iipugned in that tribunal. The decision in the court of errors
was far from being unanimous; nor was the dissent in that
tribunal feeble or equivocal.
The majority of this court were convinced that the questions
might be examined anew, and their answers were accordant
with the opinion of the minority in the court of errors. But
in the present case there is no room for doubt as to what the
settled opinion of the courtg of New Ybrk is in reference to
this title, and therefore no occasion for any hesitation concerning the obligation we have to perform. The Circuit Court
decided adversely to the defendant. Its judgment is reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings.

JAcoB E. CURTIS, PLAINTIFF, V. THE COUNTY OF BUTLER.
On the 9th of February, 1853, the Legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act
entitled "An act to incorporate the Northwestern Railroad Company."
By the seventh section, the counties through parts of which the railroad may
pass were authorized to subscribe to the capital stock of the company, and to
make payments on such terms and in such manner as may be agreed upon by
the company and proper county ; and the subscription of the counties was to
be held to be valid when made by a majority of its commissioners.
The county of Butler ivas one of the counties through which the railroad was to
pass, and coupon bondswere issued,'signed by two of the thre6 commissioners
of the county, in payment of a subscription of two hundred and, fifty thousand
dollars on the part of the county of Butler.
Other parts of the act required certain other things to be done, which were complied with.
The proper construction of this act is, that power was given in thU act and by
the agreement of subscription and terms of payment, to the commissioners of

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis v. County of Butler.
Butler county, to make the instruments upon which the suit is brought, and ta
bind the county to pay them.
The bonds upon which suit is brought, being signed by two out of the three com.
missioners, are binding upon the county of Butler.

THis case came up on a certificate of division in opinion be.
tween the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the western district of Pennsylvania.
In order to show the state of the case as it was presented to
the Circuit Court the entire record will be ingerted, which was
as follows:
Jacob E. Curtis, a citizen of the State of Virginia, v. the County of Butler, a
corporation composed of citizens of Pennsylvania.
Summons-Debt-Issued October 20th, 1857, returnable the first
ohndiay of
November next.

This was an action of debt brought on forty-nine poupons
claimed to have been attached to certain bonds alleged to have
been issued by the county of Butler to the Northwestern Railroad Company, in payment of an alleged subscription of the
said county to the capital stock of said eompany. The declaration is in debt on the bonds and coupons, and the defendant
pleaded nil debit.
The cause came on to be tried before the Honorable R. 0.
Grier and the Honorable Wilson McCandless, judges of the
said court, at Pittsburg, at May term, 1859.
The plaintiff, to sustain the action on his part, gave in evidence the seventh section of the act of the General Assembly
of Pennsylvania, approved the 9th February, 1853, entitled
UAn act to incorporate the Northwzstern Railroad Company,"
as follows: "That the counties through parts of whichsaid
railroad may pass shall be, and they are hereby, severally authorized to subscribe to the capital stock of said railroad com
pany, and to make payments on such terms and in such manner as maybe agreed- upon by the said company and the propei
colnty: provided, that ,the amount of subscription by any:
county shall not exceed ten per cent. of the assessed valuation
thereof, and that before any such subscription is made, the
amount thereof shall be ficed and 'determined by one grand
jury of the proper county,'and approved by the same. U7pon.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

437

Curtis v. County of Butler.

the report of such grand jtury being filed, the county commissioners may carry the same into effect by making, in the name
of the county, the subscription so directed bysaid grand jury:
provided, that whenever b6nds-of the respective counties are
given in payment of subscriptions, the same shall not be sold
by said railroad company at less than par value, and no bonds
shall be in less amounts than one hundlred dollars; and such
bonds shall not be subject to taxation until the clear profits of
said railroad shall amount to six per cent. on the cost thereof,
and that all subscriptions -made or to be made in the name of
any county shall be held and deemed valid, if made by a majority of the commissioners of the respective counties."
The plaintiff also gave in evidence bond No. 1, as follows;
1,000.
United States of America.
1,000.
No. 1.
County of Butler, Pdnnsylvania.
No. 1.
Bonds issued for stock in the Northwestern Railroad Company; faith of the county and stock of the 'company
-pledged.

Know all men by these presents that the county of Butler,
in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, is indebted to the
Northwestern Railroad Company in the full and just sum: of
one thousand dollars; which sum of money said county agrees
and promises to pay twenty years after the date hereof, to the
said Northwestern Railroad Company, or bearer, with interest
at the rate of six per cent. per ,*nnum,payable semi-annually
on the first days. of January, and July, at the office of the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company in the city of Philaaelphia,
upon the delivery of the coupons severally hereto annexed; fdr
which payments of principal and interest well and truly to be
made, the faith and credit and property of the said county of'
Butler are hereby solemnly pledged, under authority of an act
of the Assembly of this Cbmmonwealth, entitled "An act to
incorporate the Northwestern Railroad Company," which said
act was approved the ninth- day of. February, A.'D. eighteen
hundred and fifty-three.
In testimony whereof, and pursuant to said act of the Legis.
lature of Pennsylvania, and resolutions of the county com.
missioners in their official capacity, passed the 31st day of

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis v. County of Butler.

March, 1858, the commissioners of said county have signed,
and the.clerk of the said commissioners has countersigned these
presents, and have hereto caused the seal of said county to be
affixed, this first day of July, A. D. one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four.
[Seal of county.]
JAMES MITCHELL,
JOHN MILLER,
Commissioners of Butler County.

Tnos.

ROBINSON,

Clerk of Commissioners.
The plaintiff, further to maintain the action, gave in evidence a certified copy from the records of the court of quarter
sessions of Butler qounty, No. 16, March sessions, 1853, as

follows :.
.Presentment of the grand jury recommending a subscription
of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars to the capital stock
of the Northwestern Railroad Company on the part of the
county of Butler.
Aid now, to wit, March 29, 1853, petition filed setting forth
as follows, to wit:
To the honorable the Grand Jury and Commissioners of Butler
county:
GENTLEMEN: The undersigned, commissioners of the Northwestern Railroad Company, request of the county of Butler a
subscription of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars to the
capital stock of the Northwestern Railroad Company.
(Signed by the commissioners named in the act.)
And now, to wit, 29th March, 1853, presentment of the
grand j Iry, as follows, to ,it.

I

GRAND-JURY

RooMt, March, 1853.

BUTLER COUNTY.

To .he honorable the Judges of the Court of Quarter Sessions in and
for the county of Butldr:
The grand jury, to whom was referred the application of the
Northwestern Railroad Company for the subscription of two
hundred and fifty thousand dollars to the capital stock on the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Curtis v. County of Butler.

part of the county of Butler, beg leave to report that they have
given the subject the calm consideration that the importance
would seem to demand; that they, the said grand jury, do
hereby fix and determine, according to the provisions of the
act of Assembly, the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand
dollarsi the amount that the commissioners of Butler county.
may subscribe on behalf of the said county; and they earnestly
request that they may make a subscription of that amount to the
capital stock of the said compainy. The grand inquest furtherrequests the .honorable court to direct the finding tio be duly
filed,'together with the application of the company, and that a
certified copy of the same may be laid before the commission.
ers of Butler county for treir consideration. All of which is
respectfully subitritfted.
(Signed by the Grand Ji'iry."
The plaintiff, further to maintain the issue on his part, gave
in evidence 21 ooupdns of $80; and 28 coupons of $15, in form
as follows, to wit:
County of Butler. Warrant Eo'. -, for tbirty dollars, being
for six months' interest-on bond No. -, payable on the first
day of July, A. 1). 1857,.-at the office, of the Pennsylvania
Railroad Company, in the city of Philadelphia.
THOMAS ROBINSON, Clerk.
$30.
The plaintiff further offered testimony, tending to prove
that the said coupons were signed by Thomas Robinson, and
that he was the clerk of the commissioners at .the date of the
bonds, and it was admitted fliat tile county.of Butler was one
ofthe counties through which said railroad was. intended to
pass, and if ever made would pass, .and the plaintiff rested.
The defendant, to maintain the issuie on his part, then gavein evidence the following subscription anod agreement bet-een
the commissioners bf the co inty of'Butler and the Northtestern Railroad Company, as to the. terms and manner of pay.
ment, to wit:
By authority of an let of the General Assdmbiy of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, passed the ninth day of

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis -v County of Butler.

February, A. D. one thousand-eight hundred and fifty-three,
entitled "An, act to incorporate the Northwestern Railroad
Company," and by virt ue of the actioiPof the grand jury of the
county of Butler, had at the March sessions, A. ID. 1853, at
the court of said county, fixing and determining the-amount
of subscription to be made to the said Nortwhwester n Railroad
Company by said county of Butler, we, the undersigned, commissioners of said county,, do hereby subscribe, for and in the
name of th.e county of Butler, to the capital stock of the
Northwestern Railroad Company, the sum of two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars, being five thousand shares' of said
capital stock.
It is understood, that whenever the amount of this subscription is required-from the county of Butler by the said
company, it is. to be paid in the bonds of this county, .to be
given in sums of not less than one fhousand dollars e.ach,
payable in tiventy years after date, or such other time after
date as may be agreed upon by the commissioners of Butler
county and the said railroad conipany; the interest on said
bon'ds to be paid semi-annually, and said interest to be paid
by said railroad company until such time as the Northwestern
railroad is completed.
In testimony whereof wo have hereunto set our hands and
affixed the seal of -the said county of Butler, this 18th day of
August, A. D. one thousand eighf hundred and fifty-three.
[Seal of the County.]
THOMAS WELSH,
JAMES MITCHELL,
JOHN MILLER,
Attest:
Commissioners.
JOHN SULLIVAN2 Clerk.
Resolution passed by th6 board of directors of the Northwestern Railroad Company, August 16, 1853:
"On motion of Mr. Cunninghan and S. A. Purviance, it
was"_?esolvid, That the president is-lhereby requested to procure the subscription to the company from the counties of
Lawrence and Butler, as proposed to be subscribed by them-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

441

C'urtis v. County oJ'Butler.

to wit: two hundred thousand- dollars by Lawrence county,
and two hundred and fifty thousand dollars by Butler 6ountyupon the following terms, to wit: that the subscriptions be
paid in the bonds of the respective counties of one thousand
'dollars each; payable in -- years after date, with interest payable semi-annually; the interest to: be paid by the company
until the road is completed.
"Attest;
WTLLIA-M UASLETT,
Secretary."
The defendant further gave in evidene,"tending to show
that these bonds had been disposed of by the railroad company at less than their par value, and that the plaintiff had
notice of the agreement with the county as to the payment of
interest by the company, &c., and of notice to the plaintiff to
( show how he came by these instruments.
-Whereupon the defendant prayed the said court to instructthe jury, that no power-is given in the said act of Assembly
of the 9th February, 1853, or by the said agreement of subscription and terms of payment, to the commissioners of the
county of Butler, to make the instruments upon which the suit
is brought, and thereby bind the said county to pay them;
and that if auy power was -given to issue bonds payable to
bearer, with coupons attached, it could not be exercised by
two out of the three commissioners of the. said county; and
thee bonds, having been signed by but two of the said commissioners, are not binding on the said county.
Upon whicl prayers the said judges were divided in opinion;
whereupon the said defendant requested the said judges to
certify, under their hands and seals, and cause to be certified
undef the seal of the -said court, their division of opinion upon
the said prayers of the said defendant, -to the Supreme Court
of the United States of America; which is accordingly done,
and the clerk of the said Circuit Court is hereby ordered -to
certify the same, under the seal of our said court, to the saidSupreme Court, at its next session.
In testimony whereof we have hereunto set our lands and

SUPIREME COURT.
(7rtis v. County of Butler.

seals, this 25th day of May, A. D. one thousand eight hundred
and fifty-nine.
[SEAL.]
R. C. GRIER,
WILSON McCANDLESS, [SEAL.]
The case was argued in this court by Mr. Stanton for the
plaintiff, and Mr. Black for the defendants.
Mr. Stanton, in order to show that the Legislature had power
to pass the act, refdrred to the decisions of the Supreme Court
of the State, in 9 Harris, 147; 8 Casey, 218; and 8 Casey, 144,
which related to this very act.
Assuming the power to exist, he then made the following
points:
1. It is admitted that Butler county comes within the scope
of the act; it is one of " the counties through parts of which
the said railroad may pass."
2. It is admitted that this county, through its'officers, "the
commissioners, or a majority of them," is authorized to subscribe to the capital stock of the railroad company, and "make
payment on such terms and in such manner as ma' be agreed
upon by said company and the county." It is, however,
claimed that such a great and special power could not be delegated by such vague and indeterminate language as that used
in this act; that the power 11to make payment on such terms
and in such manner as may be agreed upon by the company
and the proper comnty" does not necessarily imply that such
securities as bonds with coupons attached may be given, and
that to infer such a power would be highly dangerous.
An examination of the terms and phraseology of the act,
however, clearly shows that the power to issue bonds was intended to be conveyed. In this very section, it is provided
that "whenever bonds of the respective counties are given, in
payment of subscriptions," &c., and that " no bonds shall be
given less than one hundred dollars," &c. Here we have a
legislative construction of the act, showing that the authority
to issue bends in the name of the county was intended to be
conferred. In construing our acts of legislation, a considera.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Gurtis v. County of Butler.

tion of the provisos is often of vital importance; they often
contain, instead of exception s, or restrictions, the principal
features of the statute, which Avithout them would be inoperative or senseless.
In the actions of all the parties concerned we find a similar
construction put upon the act. Nobody ever supposed that
the county could make payment bf her subscription in any
other manner than by her credit pledged in her bonds. Until
the convenience of the plea was felt, no one ever dreamed of
questioninfg the power of the commissioners to make these
bonds. The same astuteness that we now find employed in
the endeavor to repudiate these obligations, was then engaged
'in advising and procuring thtir execution. But the defendants' own construotion of the lawin making these obligations
will now be applied by courts ofjusticb in enforcing their fulfillment.
By a reference to the case-of the county of Lawrence againfstthe Northwestern Railroad Company, reported in the-thirtysecond volume of the Pennsylvania State Reports, at page 144,
it will be seen that this matter has been before the Suprehe
Court of the State. -That was a pr6ceeding by the county of
Lawrence, which stands in precisely the same category with
the county of Butler, against the Northwestern Railroad Conipany, asking for an injunction agaiust the further negoti6ation
of the bonds of the county by the company, foi certain reasons which iAis needless here to state. The Supreme Court
granted the injunctioh, on t~rms implying and recognising the validity of the bonds before that-tine, negotiated 1)y the
company.
Of the "terms and man*ner of payment agreed upon by-the
said company and the proper county," the best, and- to ,ffect
the plaintiff, the only evidence, is to be found in the bontds
themselveg. Hence, the agreemelit of the l8th August;1853,
put in evidence by the defendants, was superseded by the agreement of the 1st July, 1854, -evidenced by the bonds; and ftn.
provision of the earlier agreement inconsistent with the terms
of the bonds cannot avail as a defence against a bona fide bearer
of the bonds.

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis v. County of Butr.

II. But suppose a fair construction of the terms of the act
.f 9th February, 1853, shows authority in the county and its
proper officers to issue the instruments given in evidence-a
second question arises under the facts as stated in the certificate of division of opinion, namely, whether bonds signed by
two of the three commissioners would be binding.
it has not been seriously contended that the commissioners
were not the proper officers to execute the bonds. The corporate powers of the county are by law exercised by the commissioners.
Act 15th April, 1834, Purdon's.Digest, 176.
But it is claimed that the execution should have been by
the entire board of commissioners, consisting of three persons; that such an extraordindry power should be construed
strictly.
Now, by the 19th section of the act of April, 1834; it is enacted as follows: "Two of the commissioners aforesaid shall
form a board for the transaction of business, and, when convened in pursuance'of notice or according to adjournment,
shall be competent to perform all and singular the duties appertaining toothe office of county commissioners."
See .Purdon's Digest, 176.
This point was considered by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, in-the case of the Commissioners of Allegheny county
against Lecky, 6 S. and R., page 166-a case that arose before
the act of 1834 was passed-and it was unanimousl Itld that
all powers conferred upon the commissioners might b legally
executed by two, without the concurrence of the third. And
to the same effect is the case of Cooper and Grove v. Lampeter
Township.
8 Watts's Reports, 128.
5 Binney's Reports, 481.
It may be further remarked, that signing the bonds was not
a duty of a deliberative nature. It was merely carrying into
effect the previous deliberations of the board and their agree.
ment witth the company.
Of Mr. Black'- argument 'he reporter iias no notes.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

445

Curti.s, v. Counly of Butler.

MUr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
Tis case has been sent to us upon a certificate of division
upon two points, which occurred between the judges upon
the trial of it in the court below: 1. Had the commissioners
of Butler county legal authority to issue the bonds given in
evidence? 2. If they had, was such power or authority well
exercised by two out of the three commissioners of the said
county, or were the bonds signed by two of them binding?
The act under which the bonds were issued was passed 9th
February, 1853. The firsk section enumerates the persons b5
name who were to become commissioners to open books, receive subscriptions of stock, and to organize a company by the
name, style, and title, of the N~orthwestern Railroad Company,
with all the powers, and subject to all the duties restrictions,
and regulations, prescribed by an act regulating railroad compdnies, approved the 19th of February, 1849, " §o far as the
same are not allowed and supplied by the provisions of this
act"'
By the second section of the act, the capital stock] of the
company was to be divided into tweity thousand shares, of
fifty dollars each, with the. privilege to be increased, if the.
exigencies of the company shall require it, to any sum not
exceeding two millions of dollars, as the president and directors of said company may deem expedient. By the third
section, the company have the right to build and construct a
railroad ffom some point on the Pennsylvinia or Alleghenyrailroad, at or west of Johnst6wn, by the way of Butler,
to the 'Pennsylvania, and Ohio State line, at some point
on the western boundary line of Lawrence county, &c., &c.,
to connect with any railroad now or Which might be thereafter constructed at either end, or at any intermediate point
on the line or route thereof. For doing this*, the company
was authorized to borrow money to an amomt not exceeding
the capital stock of the company, upon bonds to be issued by
it whenever the president and directors might deem it bxpedient to do so. The rate of interest upon the bonds was not
to exceed seven per cent., and they were to be convertible into
the stock of the company, whenever the holders of it and the

SUPREME COURT.
Curtis v. County of Butler.

company might agree to have that done. The sixth sectiov:
bf the act we need not speak of, as it relates to matters unconnected with the questions certified, or from which there is
not any impeachment of the correct action of the company.
By the seventh section, the counties through parts of which
the railroad may pass were authorized to subscribe to the
capital stock of the company, "and to make payments on such
terms and. in such manner as may be agreed upon by the company
and propercounty." But the amount of the subscription of any
county was not allowed to exceed ten per centum of the
assessed valuation thereof, (for taxes,) and before any subscription could be made for any county, the amount of each
was to be determined and approved by a grand jury of the
county. Upon the report of a grand jury being filed, the
county commissioners were to carry it into effect, accordingly.
Then, whenever bonds of the respective counties were given
in payment of subscriptions, the commissioners were prohibite'd from selling them at less than at par; and such bonds
the State exempted from taxation until the clear profit on the
business of the railroad amounted to six per cent. on the cost
thereof; and it'was declared that the subscription -ofthe counties was to be held to be valid when made by a majority of its
commissioners. With this analysis of the act, under which
the bonds sued upon were issued, we proceed to consider the
points submitted to us.
In the first place, after a careful examination of the act to
which this act was made subordinjate, we do not find that
anything was done by the commissioners inconsistent with it,
or bearing upon the points certified.
We think that the county commissioners had authority
from the Legislature to exetute the bonds, and to pledge the
faith, credit, and property of the county, to pay them. Authority was given' bS the seventh section of the charter. It
declares that the county shall have power to subscribe to the
capital stock of the railroad company,'anid to make payment
in such manner and upon such terms as may be agreed upon
between the county and the company.
Itcannot be denied that this wa' -n authority to the county

DEOEMBEM

TERM, 1860.

Cw-tis v. County of Butler.

to make a contract of subscripticn, and that it contemplates a
payment for it prospectively "by bonds which, when made
in the name of any county, were to be held valid, if made by
a majority of the commissioners of th-, respective counties."
The power to subscribe, the manner of payment, the limitation upon the amount of subscription, the mode of carrying
that out through the intervention of a grand jury's approval
and report; the allowance of bonds t6 be given in payment,
the restriction of the same upon -the railroad company to
which they were to be transferred, not to sell the bonds at less
than par, the hindrance upon the issue of bonds of less than
one hundred dollars, the exemption of them from taxation
upon a contingency until the clear profits of the railroad: shall
amount to six per cent. upon the cost of it, are significant of
what was intended. All of those particulars in this section
of the statute are to be considered together in the construction
of it.
No one questions that the Legislature, then, had the power
to incorporate such companies, and to allow the counties of
the State to become interested in them upon the faith of
county securities, for the.transportation of persons and things
'in all of the-vehicles used for commerce and the carrying trdde,
either by water, or by laud upon ordinary artificial roads. And
that associations of persons might be incorporated for the construction of the latter, either by money alreadysubscribed, or
by. money to be raised or borrowed by certificates of indebtedness, with certificates of interest attached, separable from the
former, for the payment of interest, payable at particular times.
The objection' now, as we understgnd it, is not that the
Legislature had not such a power. But it is said, in the exercise of it, that the railroad company, and the counties
through which the road might be constriicted, had mistaken
the terms upon which the counties might subscribe to the
capital of the railroad coriipAny, as to the manner for the payment-of the subscription; in other words, that the counties. in
issuing bonds with coupons had mistaken the'special a'uthority
given to them by the tcventh section of the act, and had made.
a different contract, which could not be judicially cr.forced.

448

SUm'REME COURT.
-Curtis v. County of Butler.

That section is as follows: "That the counties thro ugh parts
of which said railroad may pass shall be authorized to subscribe to the capital stock of the railroad company, and to
make payment on such terms and in such manner as may be
agreed upon by said company and the proper county: provided, that the amount of subscription by said county shall
not exceed ten per cent. of the assessed valuation thereof, and
that before any such subscription shall be made, that the amlunt
thereof shall be fixed and determined by one grand jury of the
proper county, and approved by the same; and that upon the
report of such grand jury..being filed, the county commissioners may carry the same into effect by making in the name of the
county the subscription directed by the grand jury: provided,
that'whenever the bonds of the respective counties are given
in payment of subscriptions, that the same shall not be sold
by the railroad company at less than par value, and no bonds
shall be in less amount -than one hundred dollars, and that
such bonds shall not be subject to taxationi until the clear
profits of said railroad company sliall amount to six per cent.
upon the cost thereof; and that all subscriptions made or.to
be made in the name of any county shall be held and deemed
valid if made by a majority of the commissioners of the respeptive counties:"
Now, we freely subscribe to the rule that neither privileges,
powers, nor authorities, can pass by an act of incorporation,
unless they be given in unambiguous words, and that an act
giving special privileges must be construed strictly. That in
such a case, where a sentence is capable of having two distinct
meanings, that a construction must be given to it most favorable to the public. But in applyi& these principles to this
case, it must be done with reference to the subject-matter contemplated by the Legislature as a whole, and not allow its
manifested intention and design to be defeated by delying to
the counties the only means of paying their subscription, by
which the main object could be accomplished.
Why was it that the Legislature, in drawing the section,
directed that the subscriptions of the counties should be made
upon terms and in manner as the railroad and the counties

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

449

Curtis.v. County of Butler.

might agree upon; that it limited the amount of subscription'
upon an assessed valuation of the property of the county; that
it contemplated a taxation contingently upon the bonds of the
counties, respectively, that they were to be given in payment
of subscriptions, unless it had been its clear intention that the
subscriptions were to be paid for by county bonds, when both
company and county should make such a contract-?
This, in our view, is not a case of ambiguity in -the power
given, but one of as clear designation as could have been expressed. Nor Was it a case in which the Legislature imposed
a public burden. It was no more than giving to the people
of the county a right to tax themselves for an anticipated advantage to arise from an expenditure of their own money in
the construction. of a railroad.. It was the concern of the
county; the same as it would have been if the county had been.
legislatively empowered to tax themselves to clear out a river
for a better navigation, or for the cutting of a canal. Whether
the allowance for the issue of bonds for either of those purposes will be judicious depends upon the subject and the
regulations which the Legislature may impose for their execution.
In.
our best judgment, applied as it has been to the 7th section of the act to incorporate the Northwestern Railroad Company, in connection with a full consideration of the rules for
the construction of the powers of corporations, we have been
unable to find anything in the 7th, section equivocal or doubtful as to the power given to the counties to make and to pay
for their subscriptions to the railroad company, and nothing
wrong as to that company having received them according to
its charter.
We therefore answer to the first foint certified to this court,,
"that power was given in the a(.t of the 9th February, 1853,
and by the agreement of subscription and terms of payment.
to the commissioners of Butler .county, to make the instru-

ments upon which the suit is brought, and to bind the county
to pay them."
We will now proceed to the second point certified to this
court: and if any power was given to issue bonds payable to
VOL. xxIV.

29

SUPREME COURT.
Freeman v. Howe et al.

bearer, with coupons attached, it could nQt be exercised by
two out of the three commissioners of the sai d county; and
that these bonds having been signed by but two of the said
commissioners are not binding on the county.
We have examined the acts relating to who are designated
to exercise the corporate powers of th-e county. By the act
of the 15th April, 1834, the commissioners are to do so; and
it is now claimed, as there are three, that all of them should
have signed the bonds to make them binding iipon the county.
But by the 19th section of the aet5it is declared that two of
the Commissioners shall form a board for the transaction of
business, and when convened in pursuance of notice or according to adjqurnment, shall be competent to perform all and
singular the duties appertaining to the office of county commissioners. Purdon's Digest, 176.
Before the act of 1834 was passed, it was held in the case of
the commissioners of Allegheny county against Lecky, 6 S.
powers conferred upon the commisand R., page 166, that Rhl
sioners might be legally executed by two, without the concurrence of the third. The same ruling will be found in Cooper
and Grove v. Lampter Reansbey, 8 Watts, 128; 5 Binney's
Reports, 481. But why cite authorities, when the act in terms
makes the bonds valid if made by a majorityof the commissioners
of the respective counties?
We therefore answer the second point certified, that the
bonds upon which suit is brought, being signed by two out of
the three commissioners, are binding upon the county of Butler.
WATSON FREEMAN, MARSHAL OF THE UNITED STATES, PLArNTIFF
IN ERROR, V. JABEZ C. HOWE, JOHN H. WILKINS, AND WILLIAM MINOT, JUN.

Where the marshal, by virtue of mesne process issuing out of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the district of Massachusetts, attached certain railroad
cars, which were afterwards taken out of his hands by the sheriff of Middlesex
county under a replevin brought by the mortgagecs of the railroad company,
the proceeding of 'he sheriff was entirely irregular.

