DECEMIBER TERM, 1860.

857

Tate et al. v. Cariey et al.

however; both as respected' the appellants and the other cocomplainants; and, as the court was left unembarrassed by
the objection, it was right in proceeding to dispose of the property and effects of the debtor, and to make the proper application of them; and,. as we have seen neither of the creditori
had acquired a preference at law, the application in chancery,
upon its own principles, was a ratable distribution among all
the creditors as decreed by the court below.
Decree affirmed.
CHARLES TATE AND OTHERS, PLAINTrFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN G.
CARNEY AND OTHERS.
Under several acts of Congress the register and receiver of the land office.were
authorized to grant a certificate to every person who should appear to be entitled to land in the section of country east of the Mississippi river and west
of the Perdido river.
Under these acts, Robert Yair received a certificate in 1824 for the land now in
controversy.
In 1848, the register and receiver decided that Nancy Tate han settled upon this
land at a very early day. They annulled the former certificate and granted
an order of survey, by means of which a patent was issued in 1853 to the representatives of Nancy Tate. The patent reserves the right of Robert Yair.
The decision of the register and receiver upon this question of title is not conclusive. They have power only to decide how the lands confirmed shall be
surveyed and located. They had n1o authority to overthrow the decision of
the register and receiver that had been made more than twenty years before,
which had been followed by possession, and as to which there had intervened
the claims of bonafide purchasers.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana holding sessions for the eastern district of
Louisiana, being issued under the twenty-fifth section of the
Judiciary act.
The head note has given an outline of the case so that the
reader can understand it; and the opinion of the court containR a full statement.
Tate was sued in the court below, and disclaimed title otherwise than as one of the heirs of Nancy Tate, whose other heirs
then intervened.

SUPREME COURT.
Tate et a. v. Carny et aL.

Carney and the others claimed under Yair's title.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana rejected the claim of the
heirs of Nancy Tate, who brought the case up to this court.
It was submitted on a printed argument by Mr. Benjamin
for the plaintiffs in error, and argued by Mr. Taylor for the
defendants.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause comes before this court by a writ of error to the
Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, under the 25th section of the Judiciary act of September, 1789. The defendant
in error (Carney) commenced a suit in the District Court of
the 8th judicial district of Louisiana, in which he asserted that
he had purchased, in the year 1844, at the probate sale of the
succession of Sarah Cohern, deceased, five hundred and sixty
acres of land on Cool creek, in that district, and that Charles
Tate had disturbed his possession and denied his title. IHe
summoned Charles Tate. to exhibit his claim to the land, and
required the representatives of Sarah Cohern, deceased, to
maintain the title they had "warranted to him, or to refund the
purchase money he had paid. The result of various .proceedings in the District Court was the forming of an issue between
the defendant in error and the plaintiffs in error relative to
their respective rights in the said parcel of land. It is situated
in the section of country east of the Mississippi river and the
island of New Orleans, and west of the Perdido river, which
was claimed by the United States under the treaty of Paris of
1803, for the cession of Louisiana, and which was adversely
claimed and possessed by Spain as a portion of West Florida
until 181--'18. The act of Congress for ascertaining the titles
and claims to lands in that part of Louisiana which lies east
of the Mississippi river and island of New Orleans, approved
25th April, 1812, is the first of the series of acts that apply to
this district. 2 Stat. at Large, 713. The 8th section requires
the-commissioners to be appointed under the act to collect and
report to Congress, at their next session, a list of all the actual
settlers on land in said districts, respectively, who have no

DECEMBE

TERM, 1860.

359

claims to land derived either-from .the French, British; or
Spanish Governments, and. the time at which such settlements
,Were made. The reports made by the commissioners appointed
under the act of 1812 were submitted to Congress,.and are the
subject of the act bf the 3d March, 1819, for adjusting the
claims to land, and establishing land offices in the district east
of the island of lew Orleans. 3 Stats. at Large, 528.
The third section of this act 'provides, "1 hat every person
whose claim is comprised in the lists or register of claims reported by the said commissioners, and the persons embraced
in the list of actual settlera not having any written evidence
of claim reported as aforesaid, shall, when it appears by the,
said reports or by the said lists that the latid claimed or settled
on had been. actually inhabited or -cultivated by such person
or persons in whose right he-claims, on or befbre'the fifteenth,

ofApril, 1813, be entitled to a grant for the land so claimed
or settled on as a donation; -provided that not more than one

tract shall be thus granted to any one person; and the same •
shall not contain more than six hunded 'and forty acres.

By

the 9th section of this act, the register and receiver of the land
offices in that" district were authorized to make additions to

the list of settlers, noting the time of their settlement, and to
report the same to Congress. These, with other reports, were
disposed of in the supplementary act for adjusting land claims
in that district, adopted 8th May, 1822. 3 Stats. at Large, 707.
The third section of the act of 1822 is in the same language as
the corresponding section in the act of 1819 before cited. The
sixth section of this act requires the register and receiver to
grant a certificate .to every person who shall appear to be entitled to a tract bf land under the third section of the act, setting forth the nature of the claim and the quantity allowed.
In 1820, Robert Yair made proof in the land office that in the
year .1805 he had settled upon a parcel of land in the district,
and had occupied and cultivated'it from that time until the
date of his application and proof." His clam was reported to
Congress, and in 1824 a bertificate issued to him for that land,
which is the land in controversy. Robert Yair continued to
occupy the land until his death, in 1825 or 1826, when it passed

SUPREME COURT.
Tat et al. v. Carnwj et al.

to his widow and heirs. The defendant in error (Carney)
traces his title to these heirs. The claim of the plaintiffs in
error is traced to Nancy Tate, their .ancestress, who made a
settlement in the same district in 1811, and whose claim was
reported under the act of f812, before cited.
In the year 1847, her heirs applied to the register and receiver of the land office in that district for an order of survey,
in which application they represented that Nancy Tate was
entitled to a section of land under the acts of Congress aforesaid; that she had settled upon public land in an adjoining
section, forty-one; that John Tate was settled upon the same
section; and that both could not have their .complement of
land, from their proximity, out of laid contiguous to their settlement. But that there was vacant land to the east and northeast, not claimed by any person, sufficient to make up the
quantity she had been entitled to, and prayed for the order, as
one that could not injure any other person. The register and
receiver caused a notice to be served on the, defendant in error,
to show cause why the order should not be granted. There
is no evidence that he appeared on this notice.
In February, 1848, the register and receiver made a decision,
in which they declared that Nancy Tate had settled upon this
land; that they were satisfied that Robert Yair, at the time
of the confirmation to him, was the holder of another donation
for one thousand arpents, and that he was not pntitled to this
under the act of 1822, for that reason. They annulled the
certificate that had been issued to him, and granted the order
of survey as applied for. The survey was made to include
this land, and a patent -was issued in favor of the representatives of -Nancy Tate in 1853. This patent describes the land
as covered by the claim of Robert Yair, and releases the
land, subject to any valid right, if such exists, in virtue of the
confirmed claim of Robert Yair, or of any other person claiming from the United States, the French, British, or Spanish
Governments. The Supreme Court of Louisiana have found
from the testimony that Nancy Tate was not an occupant of
this land, and that the settlement of Robert Yair and his representatives had been continuous for some forty years.

ThG

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

861

Tate et al. v. Carney etaL.

question for the consideration of this court is, whether the
decision of the register and receiver of the land office in favor
of the plaintiffs in error is conclusive of the controversy. The
Supreme Court decided that it was not, and we concur in that
opinion.
In Doe v. Eslava, 9 How., 421, the defendant in 6rror relied
upon a decision of the register and receiver of a land office in
the same district, with, the same powers as were confirmed
upon these, as conclusive in his favor. This court answered:
"We do not consider that the'act of May 8th, 1822-and that
of the same date, which is connected with it, and referred to
as inparihateria for a guide, meant to *confer the adjudication
of titles of land on registers and receivers. Sometimes, as in
the case of pre-emptioners, they are authorized to decide on
the fact of cultivation or not; and here, from th6 words used,
no less than their character, they must be considered as empowered to decide on the true location of grants or confirmations, but not on the legal and often complicated questions of
title, inv6lving, also, the whole interests of the parties, and
yet allowing no appeal or revision elsewhere. 'The power
given to them is, to-decide only how the lands confirmed shall
be located and surveyed. The further power to decide on conflicting and interfering claims should apply only to the location and survey of such claims, which are the s ubject-matter
of their cognizance; and on resorting to the- reference *made
to the second act of Congress, that act appears also to relate
to decisions on intrusions upon possessions and other kindred
matters."
The case of Cousin v. Blanc, 19 How , 203, involved a question of the effect and binding operation of a decision of the
register and receiver of the land office upon a location and
survey bf a claim confirmed under the act of .1822, and refers
to the act of the 3d March, 1831, as showing that the. decisions of the register and. receiver Were not to be considered
as precluding a legal investigation and decision by the proper
judidial tribunals between the parties to interfering claims. 4
Stat. at Large, 492.
It furnishes no support of the argument that the decision

362

SUPREME COURT.
Htassey et al. v. Fapin.

of the register and receiver in such a case as this is conclusive
of the title. There is no dispute in this case upon the subject
of the location of the claim of Yair. The whole case shows
that it had been identified and was actually possessed by
Yair and his .heirs. The patent of the defendants in error
acknowledges that its location had been made, and that the
new survey for the claim of Mrs. Tate covered this location.
The decision of the register and receiver does not proceed
npon any assumption of a conflict of location, but of a denial
of the right of Yair. They had no authority to overthrow the
decision of the register and receiver that had been made more
than twenty.years before, which had bean followed by possession, and as to which there had intervened the claims of bona
fide purchasers. It further appears that Mrs. Tate did not
settle upon this parcel of land, and that the decisiou of the
register and receiver in her favor is not .supported by testimony. The judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana
does not contain any error within the scope of the revising
jurisdiction of this court, and-it is consequently affirmed.

P LAINIPiFS 3N ERROR, V. JOSEPH
L. PAPIN.

SAMUEL MASSEY AND OTHERS,

Before 1819, Mackay had a claim to -land in Missouri under a Spanish grant,
and in that year gave a bond in the nature of a mortgage on a part of the
land to Delassus.
In 1836, Congress confirmed the claim to James Mackay or his legal representatives. This enured to the benefit of the claimants under the mortgage rather
than to the heirs of Mackay.
An imperfect Spanish title claimed by virtue of a concession was, by the laws
of Missouri, subject to sale and assignment and, of course, subject to be mortgaged for a debt.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Couzt of Missouri by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the
Judiciary act.
The record was very voluminous, as it traced the title to
land for a number of years. It is not necessary to follow this.

