SUPREME COURT.
Freeman v. Howe et al.

bearer, with coupons attached, it could nQt be exercised by
two out of the three commissioners of the sai d county; and
that these bonds having been signed by but two of the said
commissioners are not binding on the county.
We have examined the acts relating to who are designated
to exercise the corporate powers of th-e county. By the act
of the 15th April, 1834, the commissioners are to do so; and
it is now claimed, as there are three, that all of them should
have signed the bonds to make them binding iipon the county.
But by the 19th section of the aet5it is declared that two of
the Commissioners shall form a board for the transaction of
business, and when convened in pursuance of notice or according to adjqurnment, shall be competent to perform all and
singular the duties appertaining to the office of county commissioners. Purdon's Digest, 176.
Before the act of 1834 was passed, it was held in the case of
the commissioners of Allegheny county against Lecky, 6 S.
powers conferred upon the commisand R., page 166, that Rhl
sioners might be legally executed by two, without the concurrence of the third. The same ruling will be found in Cooper
and Grove v. Lampter Reansbey, 8 Watts, 128; 5 Binney's
Reports, 481. But why cite authorities, when the act in terms
makes the bonds valid if made by a majorityof the commissioners
of the respective counties?
We therefore answer the second point certified, that the
bonds upon which suit is brought, being signed by two out of
the three commissioners, are binding upon the county of Butler.
WATSON FREEMAN, MARSHAL OF THE UNITED STATES, PLArNTIFF
IN ERROR, V. JABEZ C. HOWE, JOHN H. WILKINS, AND WILLIAM MINOT, JUN.

Where the marshal, by virtue of mesne process issuing out of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the district of Massachusetts, attached certain railroad
cars, which were afterwards taken out of his hands by the sheriff of Middlesex
county under a replevin brought by the mortgagecs of the railroad company,
the proceeding of 'he sheriff was entirely irregular.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

451

Freeman v. Howe et al.
f The suit upon the replevin was instuted and carried on to judgment in thecourt below under a misapprehension of the settled course of decision in this
court in respect to the case of conflicting processes and authorities between
the Federal and State courts.
[1. Also in respect to the ap rpriate remedy of the mortgagees of the railroad'
cars for the grievances complained of.
. In the case of" Taylor et al v. Carryl, (20 Howard, 583,) the majority of the
court were of opinion that, according to the course of decision in the case of
conflicting authorities under a State and Federal process, and in order to avoid
unseemly collision between them, the question as to which authority should
for the time prevail did not depend upon the rights of the respective parties to
the property seized, whether the one was paramount fo the otherbut upon
-the question, which jurisdiction had first attached by the seizure and custody
of the property under its process.
This principle is equally applicable to the case of property attached under mesne
process, for the purpose of awaiting the final jul.gment, as in the case of property seized in admiralty, and the proceedings in rem.
The distinction examined which is alleged to exist between a proceeding in admiralty and process issuing from a common-law court.
Whether the railroad dar which were seized were or were not the property of
the railroad company, was a question for the.United States court, which had
issued the process to determine.
Cases and authorities examined which are supposed to conflict with this principle.
II. Although both parties to the replevin were citizens of Massachusetts, yet-the
plaintiffs were not remediless in the Federal courts. They could have filed a
bill on the equity side of the court from which the process of attachment is-.
sued, which bill would not have been an original suit, but supplementary
merely to the original suit out of which it had arisen. It would therefore
have been within the jurisdiction, of the court, and the proper remedy to have
been pursued.
Cases cited to illustrate this.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Judicial Court
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts within and for the
county of Middlesex, by a writ of error issued unc3er the 25th
section of the Judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 2r. Parker for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Hutchins for the defendants.
The counsel on both sides appeared to consider that the
whole proceedings of the State court were open to revision by

SUPREME COURT.
Freemanv. ifowe et al.

thi3 court, and therefore discussed many points relating to the
validity of the mortgage, attachment, &c. Their notice of the
clashing of jurisdiction by the two sets of courts was as follows.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error said:
1. Persons and property "in the custody of the law" of a
State are withdrawn from the process of the courts of the United States, (unless Congress have otherwise specially enacted;)
and in like manner, persons and property "in the custody of
the law" of the United States are not subject to any State pro
cess.

The Oliver Jordan, 2 Curtis's C. C. Rep., 414.
Taylor v. the Royal Saxon, 1 Wallace Jr., 311.
Cropper v. Coburn, 2 Curtis's C. C. R., 465, 469.
Ex parte Robinson, 6 McLean, 855.
2. An attempt was early made to draw a distinction in favoi
of the United States in matters of admiralty jurisdiction.
Certain logs of Mahogany, 2 Sumner, 589.
This was on the ground of the peculiar character of the ad.
miralty jurisdiction, and that it was vested under the Constitution solely in. the United States, to the exclusion of State
courts.
But even in admiralty matters, the earlier doctrine has been
definitely overruled by the Supreme Court of the United
Siates, in order to maintain the general doctrine now laid
down.
Taylor v. Carryl, 20 Howard, 597.
Sustaining the judgment of the courts below in the same
matter, 12 Harris's Pennsyrvania R., 264.
Chief Justice TANEY and several of the judges dissented in
the above case (20 Howard) from the judgment and opinion
of the court, but did so solely on the ground of a necessity
growing out of the peculiar character of the admiralty jurisdiction under the Constitution of the United States.
Chief Justice TANEY takes care to enforce the general doctrine more strongly, if possible, than it was stated in the opinion of the court. (Pp. 604-5.)
With respect to this case, the counsel for the defendant in
error said:

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

453

A'eeman v. Howe et al.

The case of Taylor et hl v. Carryl, 20 How., 538, is not in
point. The opinion of the majority of the court in that case
proceeded upon the ground that the process from the State
court and that from the United States court were both proceedings in rem, and of course that which was prior in time
had precedence, and the property could not be taken from the
possession of the State court, because possession of the property
was essential to its jurisdiction.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Massachu.
setts.
The case was this: Selden F. White, of the. State of New
Hampshire, in 1856 instituted .a suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the district of Massachusetts, against theVermont and Massachusetts Railroad Company, a corporation
under the laws of Massachusetts, to recover certain demands
claimed against the -defendants. The suit was commenced
in the usual way, by process of attachment and summons.
Freeman, the marshal, and plaintiff in error, to whom the
-processes were delivered, attached a number of, railroad cars,
which, according to the practice of the court, were seized and
held as a security for the satisfaction of the demand in suit in
case a judgment was recovered. After the seizure, and while
the cars were in the custody of the marshal, they were taken
but of his possession by the sheriff of the county of Middlesex,
under a writ of replevin in favor of Howe and 6thers, the defendants in error, issued from n State court. The plaintiffs in
the replevin suit were mortgagees of the Vermont and Massachusetts Railroad Company, including the cars in question, in
trust for the bondholders, to secure the payment of a large
sum of money which remained due and unpaid.
The defendant, Freeman, in the repleviit suit, set up, by way
of defence, the authority by which he held the property under
the Circuit Court of the United States, which was overruled
by thecourt below, and judgment rendered for the plaintiffs.
The case is now before us on a writ of error.
I. The suit in this case has been instituted and carried on

454

SUPREME COURT.
Freeman v. Howe et al.

to judgment in the court below under a misapprehension of
the settled course of decision in this court, in respect to the
case of conflicting. processes and authorities between the Federal and State courts; and also in respeot to the appropriate
remedy of the plaintiffs for the grievances complained of.
As it respects the effect to be given to-the processes of the
courts, whether State or Federal, the subject was so fully and
satisfactorily examined in the case of Taylor et al. v. Carryl,
the last of the series on the subject, we need only refer to
it, as all the previous cases will *there be found. 20 How.
R., 583.
The main point there decided was, that the property seized
by the sheriff, under the process of attachment from the State
court, and while in the custody of the officer, could not be seized
or taken from him by a process from the District Court of the
United States, and that the attempt to seize it by the marshal,
by a notice or otherwise, was a nullity, and gave the court no
jurisdiction over it, inasmuch as, to give jurisdiction to the
District Court in a proceeding in rcn, there must be a valid
seizure and an actual control of the res under the process.
In order to avoid the efiict of this case, it has been hssumed
that the question was not one of conflict between the State
and Federal authorities, but a question merely upon the relative powers of a court of admiralty and a court of common
law in the case of an admitted maritime lien. But no such
question was discussed by M\'r. Justice CAMPBELL, who delivered the opinion of the majority of the court, except to show
that the process of the District Court in admiralty was eu title("
to no precedence over the process of any other court, dealing
with'property that was, in common, subject to the jurisdiction
of each. " On the contrary, he observed, at the close of the
opinion, that the view taken of the-case rendered it unnecessary. "to consider any question relatIve to the respective liens
of the attaching creditors, and of the seamein for wages, or as
to the effect of' the sale of the property as chargeable, or as
perishable, upon them."
The minority of the court took a diilerdnt view of' the quicstioit suppozed lo be involved in the case. It is succiuctl 5

DECEM-BER TERM, 1860.
_Freeman v. lowe et al.

state d by the Chief Justice, at the .ommenicement of his dissenting opinion. IIe observes: "'The opinion of the court
treats this controversy as a conflict between the jurisdiction
and rights of a State court and the jurisdiction and rights of a
court of the United States, as a conflict between sovereignties,
both acting by their own officers within the sphere of their
acknowledged powers. In" my judgment, this is a mistaken
view of the question presented by the record. It is not a
question between the relative powers of a State and the United States, acting through their judicial tribunals, but merely
upon +he relative powers and duties of a court of admiralty
and a court of common law in the case of an admitted maritime lien;" and hence the conclusion was arrived at, that the
power of the admiralty was paramount. The majority of the
court were of opinion that, according to the course of decision
in the case 6f conflicting authorities under a State-and Federal
process, and in order to avoid unseemly collision between
them, the question as to which authority should, for the time,
prevail, did not depend upon the rights of the respective parties to the property seized, whettler the one was paramount to
the other, but upon the question, which jurisdiction had first
attadhed by the seizure and custody of the property under its'
process.
Another distinction is attempted by the defendants in error.
It is admitted that in the case of a proceeding in rem, the
property seized and in the custody of the officer is protected
from any interference by State pr6cess. But it is claimed
that the process of attachment issued by a common-law court
stands upon a diffejrent footing, and the reasons assigned for
the distinction are, that in the one case the property seized is
the subject of legal inquiry in the court, the matter to be tried
and. adjudicated upon, and which, in the language of the
counsel, lies at the foundation of the jhrisdiction of the court;
but that, in the other, the propertyseized, namely, uz'dcr the
attachment, is not the subject-matter, to be tried, like the
property which is the subject of a libel in rein, as the process
is, simply, for the recovery of a debt, without any lien or
charge upon the property, except that resulting from the.

SUPREME COURT.
Preemati v. Howe et al.

attachment to secure the debt, and that the question of lien
upon the property is a collateral one, which the Federal court
could not hear and decide in the action before it; and further,
that the question of liability of the Railroad Company was
upon certain bonds, the trial and judgment .upon which would
not be affected by the possession or want of possession of the
property seized by the marshal.
The idea which seems to prevail in the mind of the learned
counsel on the part of the defendant in error is, that there is
something peculiar and extraordinary in a proceeding in rem
in admiralty, and in the lien upon which it is founded, that
invests them with a power far above the proceedings or liens
at common law, or by statute; and that while the seizure of
the property in the bne case by the marshal protects it from
all interference by State process, in the other no such protection exists.
The court is not aware of any such distinction.. In the case
of a proceeding in rem in admiralty, the lien or charge which
gives the right to seize the property results from the principles of the maritime law. In the proceeding by attachment
in a court of common law, the lien results from statute or
common law; and in both cases, unless the party instituting
the proceedings sustains his demand to secure which the lien
is claimed, the property is discharged. In both, the property
is held contingently, dependent upon the result of the litigation. In the admiralty, in the case of collision,. upon a bill of
lading, or charter party, for salvage, &c., &c.,'the main questions litigated are not the questions of lien, but fault or not in
the collision, the fulfilment or ftot of the contract in the bill
of lading, or charter party, or the right to salvage.
The same observations are alike applicable to all cases of
attachment in courts of common law, where the lien is given
by statute.
It is true, in a proceeding in rem, any person claiming an
interest in the property paramount to that of the libellant may
intervene by way of defence for the protection of his interest;
but the same is equally true in the case of a proceeding by

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Freemanv. Howe et al.

attachment in a court of common law, as will be shown in
another branch of this opinion.
Some stress has also been placed'upon the idea, that the
forcible dispossession of the marshal of the property under the
attachment would not. affect the jurisdiction of the court, or
interrupt the proceedings in the suit; but the same is *equally
true as respects the proceedings in rem in the admiralty. The
forcible, dispossession of the marshal of the property once
seized would not affect the jurisdiction, or prevent a decree in
the case...
Another and main ground relied on by the defendants in
error is, that the process in the present instance was directed
against the property of the railroad company, and conferred
no authority upon the marshal to take *the property of the
plaintiffs in the replevin .suit. But this involves a question
of right and title to the property under the Federal process,
and which it belongs to the F ederal, not the State courts, to
determine. This is now admitted; for though a point is
made in the brief by the counsel for tle defendant in error,
that this' court had no jurisdiction of the case, it was given
up on the argument. -And in the condition of the present
case more .than this is involved; for the property having been
seized under the process of attachment, and in the custody of
the marshal,.and the right to hold it being a question belonging to the Federal court, Under whose process it was seized,
to determine, there was no auithority., as we-have seen, under
the process of the Stats court, to interfere with it. We agree
with. Mr. Justice GmiUR, in Pecket al. & Jenniss .et al., (7
low., 624-5:) "It is a doctrine of lw too long established
to require citation of authorities, .that where a court has jurisdiction it hag a right to decide every questi6n which -occurs ih
the cause; and whether itsadecision be correct or otherwise, its
judgmenttill reversed is regarded as binding i n every court; afid
that where the jurisdictipn of a court, and the right of a plaintiff
to prosecute his suit in it, have once attached, that right cannot be, arrested or taken away- by proceedings in another
court." :"lNeither can one take the piopertyfroni the custody
of the other by 'replevin, or any other process; f6r this IVould

SUPREME COURT.
Freeman v. Howe el al.

produce a conflict .extremely embarrassing to the administration ofjustice."
The case of Slo3uM v. Mayberry, (2 Wh. R., 2,) has been
referred to as holding a different doctrine from that maintained by the plaintiff in error in the present case.
We have examined the case attentively, and are satisfied
that this is a misapprehension. There was no interference
there with goods seized under the process of a Federal court,
and in the custody of the marshal, nor any attempt to draw
questions involved in a suit instituted in a Federal court into
a State court for decision. It is quite apparent, from the
opinion of the court, if this had been the question before it,
what would have been its decision.
Chief Justice Marshall observed: "Any intervention of a
State authority which, by taking the thing seized out of the
possession of the officer of the United States, might obstruct
the exercise of this jurisdiction, would, unquestionably, be a
violation of the act; and the Federal court having cognizance
of the seizure, might enforce a redelivery of the thing by
attachment or other summary process against the parties who
should divest such a possession. The party supposing himself aggrieved by a seizure cannot, because he considers it
tortious, replevy the property out of the custody of the seizing
officers, or of the court having cognizance of the cause." The
reason why the replevin of the cargo in the State court was
maintained was, that the vessel only was seized by the officer,
and not the cargo, and, the latter was not, therefore, within
the -protection of the principle announced.
Reference was made, also, on the argument in the present
case, to an opinion expressed by Chancellor Kent, in his Commentaries, (vol. 1, p. 410,) as follows: "If the officer of the
United States who seizes, or the court which awards the process to seize, has jurisdiction of the subject-matter, then the
inquiry into the validity of the seizure belongs exclusively to
the Federal courts. But if there be no jurisdiction in the instance in which it is asserted, as if a marshal of the United
States, under an execution in favor of the United States
againot A, should seize the person or property of B, then the

DEOEMBER TERM, 1860.

459

Freemanv. Howe et al.

State courts have jurisdiction to protect the person and the
property so illegally invaded."
The error into which the learned chancellor fell, from not
being practically familiar with the jurisdiction of the Federal
courts, arose from n'ot appreciating, for the moment, the'effect
of transferring from the jurisdiction of the Federal court to
that of the State the decision of the question in the example
given; for it is quite clear, upon the principle stated, the jurisdiction of the former, and the validity and effect of its process,
would not be what the Federal, but State court, might determine. No doubt, if the Federal court had no jurisdiction
of the case, the process would be invalid, and the seizure of
the property illegal, for which the aggrieved party is entitled
to his remedy. But the question is, which tribunal, the Federal or State, possesses the power to determine- the question
of jurisdiction or validity of the process? The effect of the
principle stated by the chancellor, if admitted, would be most
deep and extensive in its operation upon the jurisdiction of the
Federal court, as a moment's consideration will show. It
would draw after it into the State courts, not only all questions
of the liability of property seized upon mesne and final process
-issued under the authority of the.Federal courts, including the
admiralty, for this court can be no e~ception, for the purposes
for which it was seized, but also the arrests upon mesue, and
imprisonment upon final process of the person in both civil
and criminal cases, for in every case the question of jurisdiction could be made; and until the power was assumed by the
State court, and the question of jurisdiction of the Federal
court was heard and determined by it, it could not be known
whether in the given case it existed or not. We need scarcely
remark, that no Government could maintain the administration or execution of its laws, civil or criminal, if the jurisdiction of its judicial tribunals -were subject to the determination
of another. But we shall not pursue this branch of-the case
further. We regard the question.as settled, at least as early
as 5 Cranch, 115,. United States v. Peters, familiarly known as
the Olmstead case, and -which is historical, that it belongs to
the Federal courts to determine the question of their own ju-

SU-PREME CO RT.
Freeman v. Howe et al.

risdiction, the ultimate arbiter,.the supreme judicial tribunal
of the nation, and which has been recently reaffirmed, after the
most careful and deliberate consideration, in the opinion of
the present Chief Justice, in the case of the United States v.
Booth, (21 How., 506.)
II. Another misapprehension under which the counsel for
the defendant in error labors, and in which the court below
fell, was in respect to the appropriate remedy of the plaintiffs
in the replevin suit for the grievaace complained of. It was
supposed that they were utterly remediless in the Federal
courts, inasmuch as both parties were citizens of Massachusetts. But those -familiar with the practice of the Federal
courts have found no difficulty in applying a remedy, and one
much more effectual than the replevin, and more consistent
with the order and harmony of judicial proceedings, as may
be seen by reference to the following cases: (23. How., 117,
Pennock et al. v. Coe; Robert Gue v. the Tide Water Canal
Company, decided this term; 12 Peters, 164; 8 Tb., 1; 5
Cranch, 288.)
. The principle is, that ga bill Aled on the equity side of the
court to restrain or regulate judgments or suits at law in the
same court, and thereby prevent injustice, or an inequitable
advantage under mesne or final process, is not an original suit,
but ancillary and depefident, supplementary merely to the
original suit, out of which it had arisen, and is maintained
without reference to the citizenship or residenice of the parties.
The case in the 8 Peters, 1, which was among the first that
came before the court, deserves, perhaps, a word of explanation. It would seem from a rermark in the opinion, that the
power of the court upon the bilr was limited to a case between
the parties to the original suit. This was probably not intended, as any party may file the bill whose interests are affected by the Suit at law.
-in the case of Pennoek'V. Coe'the bill was filed by the mortgagee of the railroad company, in trust for the bondholders,
answering to the position of the plaintiffi in the replevin suit
in the case before us. Gue v. the Tide Water Canal Corn.
pany, decided at thfis term, is an instructive case upon this

DECEMBER TERM. 1860.
Howardv. Bugbee.

subject, in which the Chief Justice suggests the difficulties of

a court of law dealing with this description of property with a
proper regard to the rights of all conaerned.
In that case the bill was filed on the equity side of the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland, to
restrain a sale of the defendant's property on execution. Gue,
the judgment creditor, was a resident of Pennsylvania.
We shall not look into the questions raised upon the mortgage, whether executed by the proper authority, or if it was,
whether it covered after-acquired property, as not material to
the case before us. The latter question was fully examined in
this court in the case above referred to, of Pennock v. Coe.
Neither shall we inquire into the questions raised under the
attachment laws of Massachusetts, as they are unimportant in
our view of the case.
Upon the whole, after the fullest consideration of the case.
and utmost respect for the learning and ability of the court
below, we are constrained to differ from it, and reverse the
judgment.

TiAcnR

B.

HOWARD,

PiAINTIFF IN ERROR,

V. FRANCIS

BUGBEE.

A smaute of the State of Alabama, authorizing a redemption of mortgaged property in two years after the sale under a decree, by bona fide creditors of the
mortgagor, is unconstitutional and void as to sales made under mortgages executed prior to the date of its enactment, as impairing the obligation of the
contract.

This question was decided by this court in the case of Bronson v. Kinzie, 1
Howard, 311, and the decision has been since repeatedly affirmed.

THIS case was brought up from the Slpreme Court of the
State of Alabama, by a writ of error issfied under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argu ed by Xr. Phillips for .the plaintiff in error, and

