DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

427

Snqydam v. W2iliamson.
Mr. Chief Justice TATEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case has been brought here by a writ of error directed
to the Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota. But upon
looking into the transcript, it appears that the judgment which
it is proposed to revise is a judgment reversing the decision
of the court below, and awarding a new trial. There is, therefore, no final judgment in the case, and the wyrit must be dismissed for want of jurisdiction in this court.

JAMES H.

SUYDAM,

PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR,

V. WILLIAM H.

WILLIAMSON.

Subsequently to the decisions of this court in the cases of Williamson v. Berry,
Williamson v. the Irish Presbyterian Church, and Williamson v. Ball, re
ported in 8 Howard, the Court of Appeals of the State of New York affirmed
a different opinion from that of this court respecting the title to the real property involved in those decisions.
This court now adopts the decision of the court' of New York in conformity with
the rule which has uniformly governed this court, that where any principle of
law establishing a rule of real property has been settled in the State courts,
the same rule will be applied by this court that would be applied bythe State
tribunals.
Cases cited in support of this rule, and the cases in 8 Howard commented on.

Tnis case was brought up writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the southern district of New
York.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion Of the court,
and also in the report of the cases in 8 Howard.
It was submitted on printed argument by Mr. Ellingwood
for the plaintiff in error, and argued by 31r. David Dudley
.Field for the defendant.
The points of law involved in the case are fully stated in the
reports in 8 Howard, arid itis unnecessary to repeat them in
the arguments of counsel now. And, moreover, the decision
of this couxrt turned upon another point, which is fully ex.
plained in the opinion.

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. Williamsn.

Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action of ejectment in the Circuit Court for certain lots of land in the city of New Y6rk, by the defendants
in error, against the plaintiff in error. The plaintiff in the
Circuit Court c]aimed, under a devise in the will of Mary
Clarke, who died in the year 1802, by which she gave to trustees therein named that part of the farm upon which she resided, and which she owned, called Chelsea, in trust, to receive
the rents, issues, and profits thereof, and to pay the same to
Thomas B. Clarke, during his natural life; and from and after
the death of said Thomas B. Clarke, in further trust to convey
the same to the lawful issue of the said Thomas B. Clarke,
living at his death, in fee

The property in dispute is a por-

tion of this estate. Thomas B. Clarke died in 1826, and the
plaintiffs have the title to this property of his three children,
who were livinz at his death.
The defendant's title is deduced from Thomas B. Clarke,
who disposed of the property under the authority of certain
acts of the Legislature of the State of New York, and orders
of the court of chancery of that State.
In March, 1814, T. B. Clarke represented to the Legislature
the existence and terms of the will of Mary Clarke, and that
the trustees named ixi the will were consenting to such acts
of the Legislature of the State as it might deem proper to pass
for his relief, and also requested, with their sanction, that
another trustee might be substituted in their stead; and further represented, that the estate could not be so improved and
made productive as to fulfil the object of the testator; that he
had married and had a family of five children, and that some
other disposition of the estate was essential for the support of
his family and himself. The Legislature thereupon passed an
act for the discharge of the trustees named in the will, and
empowered the court of chancery to appoint one or more trustees to execute and perform the trusts and duties specified in
the will and ia their act. The act authorized the subdivision
of a'specified portion of the farm into city lots, and their sale
within a conveniept time thereafter, with the assent of said

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Suydam v. Wlhianson.

Clarke, and for the investment and application of the income
of the proceeds of the sales.
In March, 1815,. upon the petition of Thomas B. Clarke,
representing that he could not procure a suitable person to
execute the trusts of the act of 1814, and that no other person
was interested in the property beside his family and himself,
an act was passed authorizing Clarke to become trustee, in
like manner and with like effect that trustees duly appointed
under the said act might have done, and that "the said Clarke
might apply the whole of the interest and income of the said
property to thie, maintenance and support of his family, and
the education of his children; and that no sale should be made
until the said Clarke should have procured the assent of the
chancellor of the Statato such sale, who shall, at the time of
his giving such assent, direct the niode in which the proceeds
of sale, or so much thereof as he shall think proper, shall be
vested in the said Thbmas B. Clarke, as trustee; and further,
that it shall be the duty of the said Clarke to render an account annually, to the chancellor, of the principal, the interest
being applicable as the said Clarke might think proper, for his
own use and benefit, and the maintenance and support of his
children.
After the phssing of this act, the chancellor, upon the petition of Clarke, made sundry orders for the sale of the lots and
the appropriation of the proceeds of sale, under the directions
of a master of the court. In one of these orders the chancellor directed that so much of the net proceeds to arise from the
sales be applied, under the direction of one of the masters of
the court, for the payment and discharge of tpe debts now
owing by the petitioner, and to be contracted for the necessary purposes of his family.
In March, 1816, the Legislature of New York further enacted, thatthe said Clarke, underthe or derheretofore grauted by
the chancellor; or under any subsequent order, might mortgage
or sell the-premises which the chancellor permitted or might
permit him to sell as trustee under the will of Mary-Olarke,
and to apply the'money so raised by mortgage or sale to .the

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. Williamson.

purposes required or to be required by the chancellor, under
the acts theretofore passed for his relief.
In March, 1817, the chancellor authorized Clarke to sell the
southern half of the property included in the devise, and to
convey any part or parts of the said estate in payment and
satisfaction of any debt'due and owing from the said Clarke,
upon a valuation to be agreed on between him and his respective creditors: provided, nevertheless, that every sale and
mortgage, and conveyance in satisfaction, that may be made
by the said Thomas Clarke, shall be approved .by one of the
masters of the court, and that a certificate of approval be endorsed upon every deed or mortgage- to be made in the
premises; and that the said Clarke be authorized to receive
and take the moneys arising from the premises, and apply the
same to the payment of his debts, and invest the surplus in
such manner as he may deem proper, to yield an income for
the maintenance and support of his family.
In October, 1818, Thomas B. dlarke executed a deed to
Peter McIntyre for a number of lots, including those described
in the declaration, in which he recited that he had been empowered to sell, or mortgage, or convey, in satisfaction of any
debt due from him to any person, the'property devised by
Mary Clarke, as aforesaid; and that Clarke was indebted to
McIntyre iu a large sum of money; and that in consideration
of the premises, and of thirty-seven hundred and fifty dollars,
the receipt of which he acknowledged, he granted, &c., &c..
in fee simple to McIntyre.
The master in chancery endorsed upon the deed an approval,
that "having examined the within deed, he approved it in
manner and form," and contemporaneously conveyed to Mcintyre an interest he held as trustee for Clarke.
Upon the trial, it appeared that the sale was made upon the
consideration of some debts of Clarke, that McIntyre assumed
to pay; of occasional advances of small sums of money to
Clarke, and payment of bills, in which the children were interested;- 'of some two or three years of board of Clarke and a
portion of his children, and two notes for about fifteen or sixteen hundred dollars. It was shown that others of the chi]

DECEMBER TERM, 1860;'
Sujdam v. Williamson.

dren were neglected by. Clarke, and subsisted through the
bounty of friends and relatives.
The defen'daftt connects himself with the title of lcIntyre
as a purchaser at a sale of the property under a.decree of foreclosure of his mortgage, in- 1844, by the court of chancery in
New-York.
The plaintiffs impugn the proceeding under which the conveyance to Mclntyre was made, and the sufficiency of the
consideration to support the conveyance. They contend that
every.rhaterial quesfion in this case is resjudicatain this court,
having been adjudged in the cases of Williamson v. Berry, 8
How., 495, 549, Williams v. the Irish Presbyterian Church, 8
How., 565, and Williamson v. Ball, 8 How., "566. . They insist that it is not material whether the Court of Appeals of
New York persist in their adherence to the decision in the
case of Cochran v. Vai Surley, 20 Wend., 365. If they are
not willing to re-examine th'e grounds of that decision, that is
not a reason *hy this court should recede. The decision here
was made, after great deliberation, with the decision in Coch- •
.ran 7). Van Surley before it. Property has sixce been bought
and sold 4pon the faith of the opinion here delivered, and the
judgment by this court pronounced. Every principle by
which our law of precedents is justified, tends against the reopening of the case in this court.
The litigation in respect to the property conveyed by Clarke,
under the authority derived from the acts of the Legislature,
and the orders of the chancellor, commenced before the death
of Clarke. Sinclair v. Jackson, 8 Cow., 543.
The case of Clarke v. Van. Surley was tried • at the New
York Circuit in 1838, and was decided in the Supreme Court
in 1836. 15 Wend., 486. It was removed to the court for
the correction of errors, and was affirmed in that court, but
with much division in the court, in 1838. Cochran v. Van
Surley, 20 Wend., 365-.
The decree of foreclosure and sale, under which the defendant claims, was rendered- in 1840; and the sale took place in
1844. The purchaser, subsequeutly to the sale, objected to
complying with .his purchase, becase of . notice from the

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. Wlliamson.

devisees of Mary Clarke, that they were claimants of the
property, and forbade his entering upon the same. The vice
chancellor, upon the motion requiring the purchaser to comply, and the chancellor, upon appeal from his order, compelled
the purchaser to complete his purchase. The reasons for this
order do not appear. But the vice chancellor and chancellor
might have said, that it had become the settled law'of the
State that such a title was valid, and could have rested upon
the authority of the case of Clarke v. Van Surley.
In 1851 the case of Towle v. Farley came before the superior
court of the city of New York, and involved the title to one
of the lots conveyed .to McIntyre by Clarke, and sold under
the decree of foreclosure. That case was determined in that
,court, and its judgment affirming the validity of that title was
sanctioned in the -Court of Appeals subsequently to the decisions reported in the 8th Howard, in this court. The Court
of Appeals, in answer to the argument derived from the adjudication in this court, say, that perhaps there may be a difference between the cases which were determined in this court
in 1851 and that case, but that the more suitable answer is,
that as between the judgments of their own courts, and those
of the courts of the United States, their own are binding where
there is a conflict between them, except in cases arising under
the Constitution and laws of the United States, when the
judgments of the Supreme Court of the United States are of
controlling authority. That court declares that the judgment
in Clarke v. Van Surley is a determination of the court of last
resort in this State, not only upon all the questions of law in
the case under consideration, but upon the identical title under
which the plaintiff, in the reported case, and the defendant in
the present case, claimed to own the premises in controversy
in the respective suits.

*

*

*

In such a case, there being

no pretence of collusion, and no reason to impute carelessness
or inattention to the judges, the determination should be considered final and conclusive upon all persons in interest, or
who may become interested in the question, as wellgis upon
the parties to the particular action. Towle v. Farley, 14 N.
Y. R., 426; S. C., 4 Duer, 164; Clarke v. Davenport, 1 Bosw

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Suydam v. Williamson.

R., 96. S. C. affirmed on appeal; and the question is now
presemited to this court, whether they should adhere to their
own opinion as expressed in the cases in 8th Howard, or acknowledge the authority of the courts of New York to settle
finally the contest upon this title.
The subject of the dispute is real property situated within
the State of New York, and her laws exclusively govern in
respect to the rights of the parties, the modes of the transfer,
and the solemnities which should accompany them. Communis
et recta sententia est, in rebus immobilibus servadum esse jus loci in
quo bona sunt sita. Every sovereign has the exclusive ?ight to
command vfithin his territory; and the laws which originate
rights to real property are commands addressed to the members of the State, requiring them to abstain from any interference with the proprietary right they recognise, or establish;
and in respect to this subject the sovereignty of New-York
has not been impaired by her adoption of the Federal Constitution. The power to establish federal courts, and to endow
them with a jurisdiction to determine controversies between
certain parties, affords no pretext .for abrogating any established law of property, or for removing any obligation of her
citizens to submit to the rule of the local sovereign. The title
of'the devisees of Mary Clarke was divested by authority conferred by the Legislature of the State, which was exercised
subject to the oversight of her own tribhlinals. The persons
affected by this authority were natives- of the State-children
under the superintending care of the parental, jurisdiction of
the State. It was in the constitutioiial exercise of this supre m'e
and exclusive jurisdiction that this title was disturbed. -It behooves every other State to enforce or maintain righ ts which
have thus originated in laws operating within their legitimate
sphere, and which defeat nb policy of their own; and the jurisprudence of this court attests the care with which tilis cdurt
has observed the general obligation, (ofwhich this is a particular instance,) in its 'administration throughout the Union.
In Jackson v. Chew, 12 Wheat., 162, this court say:
"Th6 inquiry is very much narrowed by applying the rdle.
which has uniformly governed this court, that where any prin-.
VOL. XXIV.

28

SUPREME COURT.
Suydam v. Williamson.

ciple of law establishing a rule of real property has been settled in the State courts, the same rule will be applied by this
court tL.t 'ould be applied by the State tribunals."
In Beauregard v. Now Orleans, 18- How., 497, the court
say:
"The judgments of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, upon
the validity of the sales impugned in this bill, were given more
than twenty years ago. They-have formed the foundation
upon which the expectations and conduct of the inhabitants
of that State have been regulated. They have quieted apprehension and doubt respecting a title to an important portion
of a large and growing city. They have invited a multitude
of transactions and engagements, in which the well-being .of
hufdreds, perhaps thousands, of the citizens of that State depend. In this bill there are several hundred of d6fendants.
The constitution of this court requires it to follow the laws of,
the several States wherever they properly alply; and- the
habit of the 'court has been to defer to the decisions of their
judicial tribunals upon questions arising out of the common
law of the State, especially when applied to the title to lands.
Upon cases like the present, the relation of the courts of the
United States to a State is the same as that of her own tribunals. They administer the laws of the State, and to fulfil
that duty they must find them as they exist in the habits of
the people, and in the exposition of their constituted authorities. Without this, the peculiar organization of the judicial
tribunals of the States and the Union would be productive of
the greatest mischief and confusion."
'In the case of Arguello v. United States, 18 How., 539, this
court determined that the colonization regulations of Mexico,
of 1824 and 1828, did not prohibit the settlement of the littoral
or coast leagues by natives, under the authority of the Governor of California, and without the consent of the Central
Government in Mexico. The same question was presented in
the case of League v. Smith, at this term, from t&eDistrict
Court of the United States in Texas, in reference to the coast
leagues in that State. This court found a contrary opinion
had prevailed in the courts of that State, and had become a

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

435

Curis v. County of Butler.
rule of property there, and without re-examining their own
opinion, or making any attempt to account for or to reconcile
the difference, without any hesitation applied the rule adopted
in Texas to the determination of controversies existing there.
The cases reported in the 8th Howard, referred to, carne before this court upon a division of opinion between 'the experienced judges of the Circuit Court of the southern district of
New York. The authority of Clarke v. Van Surley was thus
iipugned in that tribunal. The decision in the court of errors
was far from being unanimous; nor was the dissent in that
tribunal feeble or equivocal.
The majority of this court were convinced that the questions
might be examined anew, and their answers were accordant
with the opinion of the minority in the court of errors. But
in the present case there is no room for doubt as to what the
settled opinion of the courtg of New Ybrk is in reference to
this title, and therefore no occasion for any hesitation concerning the obligation we have to perform. The Circuit Court
decided adversely to the defendant. Its judgment is reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings.

JAcoB E. CURTIS, PLAINTIFF, V. THE COUNTY OF BUTLER.
On the 9th of February, 1853, the Legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act
entitled "An act to incorporate the Northwestern Railroad Company."
By the seventh section, the counties through parts of which the railroad may
pass were authorized to subscribe to the capital stock of the company, and to
make payments on such terms and in such manner as may be agreed upon by
the company and proper county ; and the subscription of the counties was to
be held to be valid when made by a majority of its commissioners.
The county of Butler ivas one of the counties through which the railroad was to
pass, and coupon bondswere issued,'signed by two of the thre6 commissioners
of the county, in payment of a subscription of two hundred and, fifty thousand
dollars on the part of the county of Butler.
Other parts of the act required certain other things to be done, which were complied with.
The proper construction of this act is, that power was given in thU act and by
the agreement of subscription and terms of payment, to the commissioners of

