DECEMBER TERMI, 18.60.
Thompvson Ct al. v. Roberts et al.

two other flat-boats were, when the steamer struck the flatboat, one hundred and fifty yards above the colliding boats,
and the witness, Douglass, thinks the steamboat could have
passed, if all the flat-boats had kept their places. The stern
of the flat-boat was sixteen feet under water.
Several witnesses called by the steamer seem to think that the
flat-boat was bound to avoid the steamer; but such a rule would
be unreasonable, and would increase the risk of navigation.
When a floating boat follows the course of the current, the
steamer ifust judge of its course, so as to avoid it. This may
be done by a proper exercise of skill, which the steamer is
bound to use. Any attempt to give a direction to the floating
mass on the river would be likely to embarrass-tht, steamer,
and subject it to greater hazards. A few strokes of an epgine
will be sufficient to avoid any float upon the river which is
moved only by the current; and this, I understand, is the established rule of navigation.
We think the steamer was in fault in not avoiding the flatboat, on which ground the judgment of the Circuit Court is
reversed.
WILLIAm THOmpSoN AND JoHIN PICKELL, PL&nmrFFs "N ERROR,
v. LEWIS ROBERTS, GIDEON R. BURBANK, AND ADDISON ROBERTS.
The general rule of law is, that the judgment of a court of law or a debree of i
court of equity, directly'upon the sam6 point and between the same parties,
is good as a plea in bar, and conclusive when given in evidence in a subsequent suit.
Where the court left it to the jury to say whether the defence niade at law was
the same which was made in a prior equity suit, this error, if it be one, does
not invalidate the judgment of the court below.
The parties to the suit at law having been parties to the suit in eqiuity, the subject-matter and defence being the same, it is not a sufficient objection to the

introduction of the record in the equity suit that other persons were parties to
the latter.
No good reason can be given why the parties to the suit at law who litigated the
same question. should not be concluded by the decree because others, having'
an interest in the question or subject-matter, were admitted by the practice of
a court of chancery to assist on both sidez.

SUPREME COURT.
Thompson et dl. v. Roberts t l.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Maryland.
In consequence of some negotiations relative to coal lands,
and their eventual purchase by Pickell and Thompson, they
executed to Mr. Smith the following notes:
Promissory Note No. 1.
BALTIMORE, Jne

2, 1853.

On the 31st of December, 1856, we promise to pay William H. Smith, or order, two thousand dollars, with interest
from July 20, 1853.. Value received.
JOHN PICKELL.
$2,000.00.
WM. THOMPSON.
(Endorsed:) Wm. H. SMITH.Promissory .NoteNo. 2.
BALTIMORE, Yune 2, 1853.
On the first day of July, in the year 1856, we promise fo
pay William Hl. Smith, or order, two thousand dollars, with
interest from July 20, 1853. Value received.
JOHN PICKELL.
$2,000.00.
WM. THOMPSON.
(Endorsed:) WM. H. SMiTH.
The time for the'payment of these notes was afterwards, by
agreement, .extended to 15th January, 1857.
On the 12th of July, 1853, Thompson and Pickell executed
a mortgage of the property purchased to Smith, for the purpose of securing the payment of the purchase money, of which
the n6tes were only a part.
On the 2d of October, 1856, Smith assigned the mortgage,
as also the two notes in question, to Lewis Roberts, Gideon
R. Burbank, and Addison Robdrts.
The next step in the proceedings was the filing of a bill in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Maryland for the foreclosure of the mortgage. To this bill the following were the parties:
William H. Smith, of the city of Ricbmond, and State of
Virginia, and a citizen of the said State of Virginia, and Lewis
Roberts, Gideon R. Burbank, and Addisan F. Roberts, of the
city of New York, and State of New York. oud citizens of

"DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

235

Thompson et aI.v. Roberts et id.

said State of New York, bring this their bill of complaint
against William Thompson, a citizen of the State of Maryland, and residing in the city of Baltimore, in the said State,
and John Pickell, a citizen of the said State of Maryland, and
residing in Allegha'ny county, in said State, and the Pickell
Mining Company, incorporated by the laws of the said State
of Maryland, mining and transacting business in Alleghany
county, in said State, and having an office for the dispatch of
business in the city of Baltimore, in said State.
The Pickell Mining Company were made a party becau.se,
as the bill alleged, Thompson and Pickell had, since the date
of the mortgage, assigned their equity of. redemptibn to that
company.
This gave rise to a protracted and warmly-contested litigation, the defendants alleging that Smith had represented the
land to contain at least three hundred acres of the big vein' of
coal, whereas it did not contain more than one hundred and

fifty.
It is not necessary to state the.evidence taken on both sides.
On the 31st of October, 1857, whilst this controversy was.
pending in chancery, the defendants in error brought a suit on
the common-law side of the court upon the two notes above.
mentioned, which is the present case.
In April, 1858, the court on the equity side decreed a sale
of a part of the mortgaged property, but the most valuable
part of it was excepted, so that the residue w4as not worth the
debt. The suit at law therefore went on.
In Nqovember, 1858, the case came up for trial. The defend.
ants'offered a part of the chanicery record for the purpose of
showing that the plaintiffs were'not holders. of the notes for
:value, when the plainltiffs offered the entire record, and in.
sisted that the decree was conclusive, and estopped the defendants from again alleging the same matter as a defence to the
suit at law on the notes.
Four long prayers were made 'to the court on each side,
which were all rejected, and the following instructions given
to th jury:
fl the jury shall find from. the evidence that the promissory

SUPREME COURT.
Thonpson et al. v. Roberts et al.

notes offered in evidence in this case were duly executed and
delivered by the said defendants to W'".iam H. Smith, and by
him endorsed over to the said plaintiff for value; and that in the
cause on the equity side of this court, in which the said plaintiffs, with the said Smith, were complainants, and the said
Thompson and Pickell, with the _nckell Mining Company,
were defendants, (the record of which has been offered in evidence,) the same defence was made and set up in said cause to
prevent the passage of a decree for the sale of the said landto pay the said notes as is now made to prevent a recovery ir
this case, then the decree passed in that case is conclusive upon
the point of this defence, and the plaintiffs are entitled to recover in this action.
To which said rejection of the prayers offered on the part
of plaintiffs the said plaintiffs prayed leave to except, and the
said defendants prayed leave to except to the rejection of the
prayers as offered by the defendants, and to the instruction
given by the court to the jury, and the said parties, plaintiffs
and defendants, prayed the court to sign and seal this their
several bill of exceptions; which is accordingly done this 18th
November, 1858.

WILLIAM F. GILES. [SEAL.]
It was argued by Mr.Mayer, upon a brief filed by himself
and Mr. Washington Yellott, for the plaintiffs in error, and by
Mr. Alexander for the defendants.
The arguments upon both sides necessarily included comments upon the prayers rejected by the court below, as well as
upon the instructions which were given. Our notice will lie
confined to the latter.
Mr. Mayer made the following points:
But as to the instruction, the plaintiffs in error maintain-*
I. It submits to the jury the whole question of the identity
of the defences taken in this suit and in the equity case in the
United States court, which question, on the contrary, is, itis
contended, one of law and fact; in regard, too, to which, he

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Thwmpson el al. v. Roberts et aZ.

court should at least have specified the particular point of
defence to which they referred.
2"Johns. R., 29, 30, 210; 16 Id., 136.
1 Esp. R., 43; 1 East., 355.
3 B. and Cr., 239; [10 E. C. L., 62.]
I. It was for the court, on that question of the defences, to
-compare the respective defences; and on su.ch comparison it
will appear that they do not coincide; and the court should
therefore have refused to leave to the jury the inquiry as tothe identity of defence.' The defeneje in the equity suit was
only that the land was represented by Smith to contain 300
acres of the "big-vein" coal, and _proved to have only 150an allegation which might.imply that such was only Smith's
opinion, and certainly did not nbcdssarily import that he had
made an ascertainment by survey. The defence, on the other
hand, taken in the present suit, is, that Smith was guilty of
actua fraud, and had asserted what, by his own examination,
he knew was false.
2 Gall., 229, 230.
17 Peck., 7--14.
1 Greenl. Ev., sees. 528-53-4.
II; The instruction was erroneous, because, even assuming
that the defence of fraud was taken in the equity suit, the
decree there is not to be understood as determining or at all
cousidering' that defence. " In that suit, in rem, it was not an
appropriate defenceand coul&'not have availed, since, whether
there-were fraud or- no fraud, the land, inferior in coal value
as it might be, ought to have been charged with the purchasemoney debt, under the mortgage.. The personal liability on
the notes is a distinct question. The sale upon the mortgage
was inevitable; and for any amount reclaimable-for the misrepresentation of the purchase money-paid, the remedy wa,
against the proceeds of sales under the mortgage decree.
1 Green]. Ev., sec. 528.
2 Gall., 229, 230.
1 Peters 0. 0. R., 203.
3 Day's R., 138; 8 Cohn., 268.
3 Siinons, 447; 4 Irish *Ch. R., 75.

SUPREME COU-RT.
Tiriapson et al. v. Roberts et al.

IV. Identity of defences does not bear on the defendants in
this suit and preclude the bar now set up, because they were
not necessary nor proper parties to lhe equity suit, all their
estate ii the land to be affected by that proceeding having
been conveyed to the party defendantthere, the Pickell Mining
Company, as the very bill, confesses.
Calont on Part., 181, [17 Law Lib.]
V. The defence and testimony in the equity case were not
between the same parties as the parties to this suit, and cannot
operate against the defendants here, as res judicata, by virtue
of the equity decree.
6 Peters, 328.
1 Wash. C. 0. R., 70-75.
4 Wash. C. 0. R., 186, 187, 188.
1 Paine 0. C.R., 548.
2 Gall., 228; 1 Munf., 398.
Upon this branch of the case, Mr. Alexander made the following points:
The verdict being for the plaintiffs below, establishes the
identity of the defences in the two causes; so that it is presuimed the only subject for inquiry is, whether the decree of
the court of equity on the matter of a defence taken in a proceeding in rem, to enforce payment .of a debt by sale of the
pledge, is conclusive on the same matter offered as a defence
in an actioif in personam, for recovery of the same debt. The
defendants in error maintain the affirmative on.this question.
To render the decree conclusive, it is sufficient that there
exists identity of matter in issue, and of parties.
The identity of the matter in issue is established by the verdiet. As to parties there can be no question.
The leading cases on the subject are2 Smith's Leading Cases, 424, Duchess of Kingston's
Case.
3 East., 346, Outram v. Morewood.
12 Md., 564, Beall v. Pearce.
In addition to which it will be sufficient to refer to 6 Wheat.,
109, Hopkins v. Lee. Lee sued Hopkins on a covenant to

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Thompson et al.v. RBoberts et al.

convey. Hopkins pleaded that he had not perforried a condition on which the conveyance was to be made; a decree in
favor of Lee in a cause instituted against him by Hopkins, to
.enforce performance of that condition, was adjudged to be
conclusive on the point of performance.
1 How., 134, Bank of United States v. Beverly.
7 How., 198, Smith v. Kernochen.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendants in error were plaintiffs below, and brought
this suit az ezdorsees of two notes given by the plaintiffs in
error to William H. Smith. These notes were given in part
payment of some tracts of coal laud sold and conveyed to
Thompson and Pickell by Smith, and the defence endeavored
to be established on the trial was a -'ant of consideration, in
that Smith had falsely represented the lands to contain 800
acres of "big-vein" coal, when in fact they contained but
150 acres. A mortgage had been, given, to ,secure these notes;
a bill had been filed in chancery to foreclose this mortgage, in
which Smith, the assignor, and Roberts and others, the equitable assignees of the mortgage, and endorsees of these notes,
were complainants, and Thompson and Pickell, together with
their assignees, the Pickell Mining Company, were respondents. They put in a joint and several answer admitting the
execution of the notes and mortgage, and alleging as a defence
the representations made by Smith, by which Thompson and
Pickell were induced to purchase the lands, supposing them
to contain 300 acres of the "big-vein" coal, when in fact, as
they afterwards discovered, the lands contained but l50 acres
of the same. For this reason; and "because they did not receive a valuable consideration for said notes or mortgage,
respondents aver that plaintiffs are not entitled to demand
payment of them, or any part of them, but the same are to be
regarded as absolutely void."
This case was fully heard by the chancellor on the pleadings
and evidence, who overruled the defence set up, and decreed
a sale of the mortgaged premises. The record of that case
was put in.evidence on the trial of this case by the defendants

SUPREME COURT.
Thompson et al. v. Roberts et al.

below, for the purpose, as they alleged, "of showing that the
plaintiffs were not holders for value."
They offered for that purpose a part only of the record.
Whereupon the plaintiffs gave in evidence the entire record,
and insisted that the decree is conclusive, and estops the defendants from again alleging the same matter as a defence to
the suit at law on the notes. The evidence was, however,
again presented to the jury, without a waiver of plaintiffs' right
to treat the decree as an estoppel.
The court rejected a number of prayers' offered by each
party, and gave the following instruction to the jury, which
is the subject of exception:
"If the j ury shall find from the evidence that the promissory
notes offered in evidence in this case were duly executed and
delivered by the said defendants to William HI. Smith, and by
him endorsed over'Io the said plaintiffs for value; and that in
the cause on the equity side of this court, in which the said
plaintiffs, with the said Smith, were complainants, and the
said Thompson and Pickell, with the Pickell Mining Company,
were defendants, (the record of which has been offered in evidence,) the same defence was made and set up in said cause
to prevent the passage of a decree for the sale of the said lands
to pay the said notia as is now made to prevent a recovery in
this case, then the de( ree passed in that case is conclusive ipon
the point of this defence, and the plaintiffs are entitled to recover in, this action"
.The plaintiffs in error have not called in question the correctness of the general principle of law assumed by the court
below, viz : "that the judgment of a court of law, or a decree
of a court of equity, directly upon the same point, and between
the same parties, is good as a plea in bar, and conclusive
when given in evidence in a subsequent suit."
But it is objected to this instruction, that it submits as a
question of fact to the jury what ought to have been decided
by the court as matter of law from the face of the record produced., This, if an error, was one favorable to the plaintiffs
in error, as it gave- them the chance of a verdict on a point
which, if decided by the court, inust have been decided against

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

241

Thompson et aZ. v. Roberts et aZ.'

them; for the record shows conclusively that the very same
defence against these notes was the only point in dispute in
the court of equity, to wit, whether plaintiffs in error were
' deceivcd by" the alleged misrepresentations of Smith, fraudulent or otherwise, and whether the notes were therefore
"without consideration," and 1"ab solutely void."
The objection that the parties were not the same in both
suits cannot be sustained.
Both parties to this litigation were parties in that suit; the
subject-matter was the same; the defence now st up was the
same which the pleadings and the evidence show to have been
adjudicated in the court of chancery.
It is true, Smith, whd'endorsed the notes to the plaintiffs
below, and who was interested in the question, was joined as
complainant, and the.Pickell Mining Company, who had -purchased the mortgaged property, were made respondents, according to the practice in courts of chancery, where all parties,
having an interest in the question to be tried are made parties,
that the decree may be final as to all the matters in litigation.
No good reason can be given why the parties In this case, who
litigated the same question, should not be concluded by the
decree, because others having an interest in the question or
subject-matter were admitted by the practice of -a court of
chancery to assist on both sides.
The question as between the present parties is ries judicaza,
and none the less binding because others are concluded also.
A contrary doctrine would sacrifice a wholesome.principle of
law to a mere technical rule having no foundation in reason;.
making a distinction where there is no difference.
Such was the ruling of the court in the case of Laivrence v.
Hunt, (10 Wendell, 82,) where it was objected that in the -former suit there was another plaintiffjoined. Where the former
suit was at law, this objection might have some weight, for it
could-not well be said that a contract-of A and B with D ahd
0 was the same as that in another suit where A was- sole
plaintiff and D sole defendant. But this objection cannot apply where the first issue is in chancery, and parties collaterally
interested arm made parties to the litigation, that it may be
16
VOL. XIV.

SUPREME COURT.
AtcEwea etal. v. Den, Lessee.

final, and not because they were legal parties to the original
contract on which the litigation is founded. In such a case
the pleadings may show the contract or subject-matter of the
litigation to be the very same, and directly in issue; in the
other, it could not be well so. As we are of opinion that there
was no error in this instruction, it will not be necessary to
*notice the other points alluded to in the argument, this one
being conclusive of the whole case.
Thejudgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed, with
costs.

WILLIAM S. MoEWEN AND HENRY H. WILEY, PLAINTIFFS IN
ERROR, V. JOHN DEN, LESSEE OF CHARLES BULKLEY AND

STUART BROWN.
By the laws of Tennessee anterior to 1856, a deed for lands lying in Tennessee
could not be acknowledged or proven in another State before the clerk of a
court.
In 1856, a law was passed allowing this to be done. This statute was prospective.
The circumstance that the law of 1856 was called an amendment of the prior
law does not change this view of the subject.
Where a deed was acknowledged in 1839, before the clerk of a Co'rt in another State, a copy of it froifi the record was improperly allowed to 6:p read in
evidence to the jury.
Where the defendant claimed under the statute of limitations and showed possession of Evans's coal bank; the validity of this plea will depend upon the fact
whether or not Evans's coal bank is within the lines of the plaintiff's patent.
The case remanded to the Circuit Court for the purpose of ascertaining this
by a corrected survey made according to the rules laid down by this court.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States 'for the eastern district of Tennessee.
It was an ejectment brought under the circumstances stated
in the opinion of the court, and was argued by Mr. Maynard
and Mr. HMiskell for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Nelson for
the defendants.

