DECEMBER TERM, 186.
jiartinet at. v. Thinas et al.

JoHx T. MARTIN, ANDREW PROUDEIT, AND JOHN KEEFE, Pi.WTIFFS IN ]RROR,

r. WILIAm R.

BAKER, ADMINISTRAT&RS OF MAJOR

THo As AND ROBERT

J. TnomAs,

A.

DECEASED, USE

OF GEORGE T. ROGERS.
Where there was an action of replevin in Wisconsin, by virtue of which the
property was seized by the marshal, and a bond was given by the defendant
in replevin, together with sureties, the object of which was to obtain the'return
of the property to the deteudant; which bond was afterwards altered, by the
principal defendant's erasing his name from the bond, with the knowledge and
consent of the marshal but without the knowledge or consent of the sureties,
the bond was thereby rendered invalid against the sureties.

THIs case was broight up by writ of error from the District

Court of the United States for the district of Wisconsin.
The facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr..Doolittle and Mr. Ewing for the plain:.
tifls in error, and by Mr. Bever'dy Johnson, upon a brief filed
by himself and .Mr. .ffopkins, for the defendants.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error made the following
points:
I. The bond upon which judgment was recovered was invalid as against the defendants, because after the same was
executed by them as sureties, Remington, their principal, without their knowledge or consent, and with the consent of the
marshal, erased his name from the bond.
Hunt's Adm. v. Adams, 6 Mass., 521.
Speake et al. v. U. S., 9 Cranch, 35.
Miller v. Stewart, 9 Wheaton, 702, 703.
II. After the execution of the bond by the defendantb to be
delivered to the marshal, it- was refused and disareed to by
him, and it thereby became void. Any subsequent alteration
would create a new deed requiring a new execution, or positive
assent to the same, to give it validity against the defendants.
O'i1eale v. Long, 4 Crancl, 60, 62.
See Sheppard's Touchstone, 70, 394, as to the effect of
disagreement.

SUPREME COURT.
Xarlin et al. v. Thomas el al

III. There was no breach of the condition of the bond.
The obligors undertook to deliver the property in question
to the marshal, if such delivery were adjudged, and to pay him
such sum as might for any cause be recovered against thd -defendants, Henry W. Remington and John T. Martin, jun.
The return of the property was not adjudged, and there wns
no recovery of any sum of nioney against the defendants. The
recovery was against one only.
See Miller ,. Stewart, 9 Wheaton, 702, 703, and the eases
cited.
The counsel for the defendants in error maintained that the
alterations of the bond were immaterial, and cited:
15 John., 293; 1 Wend., 659; 10 Conn., 192.
18 Pick., 172; 5 Mass., 538; 2 Barb. Ch'y R., 119.
16 N. Y. Rep., 439; 3 Conisk. R., 188.
1 Greenleaf, (Maine Rep.,) Hale v. Russ.
1 Coke's Rep., 60.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the district court of the United
States for the district of Wisconsin.
The action was replevin; the pleadings being filed, a jury
was called, who rendered a verdict in damages for nine thousand seven hundred and eighty dollars and ninety-six, cents,
with costs.
In the course of the trial a bill of exceptions was filed, on
which the questions of law were raised. Be it remembered,
that at the trial of the above-entitled action, the plaintiff produced an instrument in writing in the words and figures, and
with interline'tions and crasures following, to wit:
Know all men by these presents, that we and John T. Martin, and John Keefe, and Andrew Proudfit, are held and firmly
bound unto Major J. Thomas, marshal of the United States
for the Wisconsin district, in the sum of twenty thousand dollars, to be paid, &c.
Whereas the defendants have required the return of property replevied by the marshal, at the suit of George T. Rogers
against Henry M. Remington and John T. Martin, jun.; now,

DECEMBER TERM, 18601

317

Mayer, Trustee, v. Wite, An.

the condition of this obligation is such, that if the said defendants in said suit shall deliver to the marshal said property, if
suw delivery be adjudged, and shall pay to him such sum as
may for any cause be recovered against the defendants, then
thifi obligation to be void.
The bond upon which judgment was recovered was void, as
against the defendants, because, after the same was executed
by them as sureties, Remington, their principal, without their
'knowledge or consent, and with the consent of the marshal,
erased his name from the bond.
In Miller v. Stuart, 9 Wheat., 702, Mr. Justice Story said,
nothing can be clearer, both upon principle and authority
thai the doctrine that the liability of a surety is not to be ex
tended, by implication, beyond tlbe terms of his contract. To
the extent, and in the manner, and under the circumstances,
pointed out in the obligation, he is bound, and no further. It
is not sufficient that he may sustain no injury by a"change in
the contract, or that it may be for his benefit. He has a right
to stand upon the very terms of his contract; and if he does
not assent to any variation of it, and an alteration of it is
made, it is fatal.
Hunt's Adm. v. Adams, 6 Mass., 521.
2. After the execution of the bond by the defendants, to be
delivered to the marshal, it was refused and disagreed to by
him, and it thereby became void. Any subsequent alteration
would&require a new deed or positive assent to the same, to
make it valid against the defendants.
Sheppard's.Touchstone, 70, 394.
The judgment is reversed.

CHARLES F. MAYER, SURVIVING PERMANENT TRUSTEE OF JOHN
GOODING, APPELLANT, V. WILLI,.M PINKNEY WHITE, AD.aIINISTRATOR DE BONIS NON OF JOHN GOODING AND ROBERT

M.

GIBBES AND CHARLES OLIVER, SURVIVING EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, DECEASED.
Another branch of the cases arising under the Msexican Company of Balthmore,
formed in 1816.

