DECEMBER TElRM, 1860.

413

Mfedberry et al. v. State of Ohio.

debtor, consistentiy with' equity and humanity. Bankrupt
and insolvent laws, laws allowing of attachment and sequestration of the debtor's estate, and for the revocation of fraudulent conveyances, creditors' bills, and criminal prosecutions
tbr fraud or conspiracy, are some of the modes that have been
adopted for the purpose. -In,
the absence of special legislation,
we may safely affirm; that a general creditor cannot bring
an action on the case against his debtor, or against those corbining and colluding with him to make dispositions of his
property, although the object of those dispositions be to binder, delay, and defraud creditors. The charge of the district
judge is erroneous, and the judgment of ihat court is reversed,
and the cause remanded for further proceedings.

ARNOLD. MEDBERRY, JOHN LAWHEAD, ROBERT -H. NuGEN, AND
ABNER J. DICKENSON, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR,.V. THE STA ,E
OF OHIO.
Whether this cohrt has or has not jurisdiction uider the 25th section of The Judiciary act may be ascertained either from the pleadings, or by bill of
exceptions, or by a certificate of the court.
But the assignment of errors, or the published opinion of the court, cannot be
reviewed for that purpose. They make no part of the record proper, to which
alone this court can resort to-ascertain the subject-matter of the litigation. Therefore, where the record showed that the only question presented to the
State Court, and decided by them, was, whether the provisions of an act of
the Legislature were consistent with the Cunstitution of the State, this court
has no power to review their judgment.

THIS case was brought up from the Supr"cme Court of the
State of Ohio by a writ of error issued under the 25th section

of the Judiciary act.
The facts or the case are stated mu the opinion of the court,
and also in 7 Ohio State Reports, p. 523.
It came up on a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction,
which was sustained by Mr. lVohto and .Mr. Stanton, and op.
posed by Mr. Pugh.

SUPREME COURT.
Aedberry et al. v. State of Ohio.

Mr.Justice GRIER delivered the .opinioi "ofthe court.

The defendant in error moves to dismiss this case for Want
af jurisdiction, because the record does not present any question which this court has authority to re-examine, by the 25tb
section of the Judiciary act.,
The construction of this section has been so often before
this court, and the cases are so numerous which define and
establish the conditions under which we assume jurisdiction,
that it would be tedious to notice them, and superfluous to
repeat or comment upon them.
For the purp6ses of this case, it.is only necessary to say,
"that it must appear from the record of the case, either in
express terms or by clear and necessary intendment, that one
of the questions which this court has jurisdiction to re-exaraine and decide was actually decided by the State court."
This may be ascertained either from the pleadings, or by
bill of exceptions, or by a certificate- of the court. But the
assignment of errors, or the published opinion of the court,
cannot be reviewed for that purpose. They make no part of
the record proper, to which alone we can resort to ascertain
the subject-matter of the litigation.
In this case, the declaration counts upon a contract made
by the plaintiffs with" the board of public works of Ohio, in
1855, for keeping a portion of the canal in repair for five years.
It avers performance, and readiness to perform, and that those
officers, acting under and by authority of an act of Assembly
of Ohio, entitled "An act making appropriations for the public works for 1857," "in violation and in open disregard of
such contract, did wrongfully hinder and prevent," &c.
The Supreme Court gave judgment for the defendants on a
demurrer to this declaration.
It is not averred in the pleadings, or anywhere on the
record, that this or any statute of Ohio was void, because it
impaired the obligation of contracts.
The only legitimate inference to be drawn from the face of
this record is, that the Supreme Court decided that the board •
of public works had no authority to make such contract. If
we 9-o out of the record to search for the reasons, we find no

DECEMBER TER.M. 1860.
Porter et al. v. foey.

evidefice that there was any complaint that the act of 1857
was contrary to the Constitution of the United States, or that
the court gave theirjudgment for the defendant on account
of any of its provisions. It is not referred to, except for the
purpose of showing that the plaintifl might, bring their suit
against the State for damages. The contract declared on was
made by virtue of an act of Assembly of 1845. In 1851, the
people of Ohio formed a new Constitution. This contract was
made in 1855.
The only question presented to the court, and decided by
them, was, whether the provisions of the act of 1845 were
consistent with those of the new Constitution.
This is a question of which this court has no authority to
take j udicial cognizance.
The writ of error is therefore dismissed.

JAZES

D. PORTER AND OTHERS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. BUSHROD W. FOLEY
.

Where an act of Assembly of the State of Kentucky was objected to in the State
court because said act and supplement were unconstitutional and void, the
court properly considere I the question as relating to the power of the Legislature to pass the act under the Constitution of the State, and not under the
Constitution of the United States.
There is therefore no ground for the exercise of jurisdiction by this~court under
the 25th section of the Judiciary act.

Tns case was brought up from the Court of Appeals for the
State of Kentucky by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the Judiciary act.
A motion was made by Mr. Mooar to dismiss it for want of
jurisdiction, under the following circumstances :
Porter and others, the plaintiffs in error, filed a.petition in
the State court.to recover the title and possession of a lot of
land in the town of Covington. They claimed under a grant

