SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Demison, Governor, &c.

Ex

IN THE MATTER OF TIIE COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, ONE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, nY BERIAH
MAGOFFIN, GOVERNOR, AND THE EXECUTIvE AiUTHORITY THEREPARTE.

OF, PETITIONER, V. WILLIAM DENNISON, GOVERNOR AND
ECUTIVE AUTHORITY OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

Ex-

1. In a suit between two States, this court has original jurisdiction, without any
further act of Congress regulating the mode and form in which it shall b& exercised.
2. A suit by or against the Governor of a State, as such, in his official character,
is a suit by or against the State.
3. A writ of mandamus does not issue in virtue of any prerogative power, and,
in modern practice, is nothing more than an ordinary action at law in cases
where it is the appropriate remedy.
4. The words "treason, felony, or other crime," in the second clause of the
second section of the fourth article of the Constitution of the United States,
inclnde every offence forbidden and made punishable by the laws of the State
where the offence is committed.
5. It was the duty of the Executive authority of Ohio, upon the demand made
by the Governor of Kentucky, and the production of the indictment, 'duly ce:tified, to cause Lago to be delivered up to the agent of the Governor of Kentucky who was appoiiited to demand and receive him.
6. The duty of the Governor of Ohio was merely ministerial, and he had no
right to exercise any discreti6nary power as to the nature or character of the
crime charged in the indictment.
7. The word ",duty," in the act of 1793, means the moral obligation of the State
to perform the compact in the Constitution, when Congress had, by that act,
regulated the mode in which the duty was to be performed.
8. But Congress cannot coerce a State officer, as such, to perform any duty
by i.ct
of Congress. The State officer may perform it if lie thinks proper,
and it may be a moral duty to perform it. But if he refuses, no law of Congress can compel him.
9. The Governor of Ohio cannot, through the Judiciary or any other Department of the Geiieral Government, be compelled to deliver up)Lago; and, upon
that ground only, this motion for a mandamus was overruled.

A MOTION was made in behalf of the State of Kentucky, by
the direction and in the name of tht Governor of the State,
for a rule on the Governor of Ohio to show cause why a mandamus shouht not be issued by this court, commanding him
to cause Willis Lago, a fugitive from justice, to be delivered
up, to be removed to the State of Kentucky, having jurisdic
tion of the crime with which he is charzed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

67

(Jommonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor,&c.

The facts on which this motion was made are as follows:
The grand jury of Woodford Circuit Court, in the State of
Kentucky, at October term, 1859, returned to the court the
following indictment against the said Lago:
WOODFORD CIRCUIT COURT.
The Commonwealth of Kentucky against Willis Lago, free man of color.

The grand jury of Woodford county, in the name and by
the authority of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, accuse-Willis Lago, free man of color, of the crime of assisting a slave to
escape, &c., committed as follows, namely: the said Willis
Lago, free man of color, on the fourth day of October
1859, in the county aforesaid, nQt having lawful claim, and
not having any color of claim thereto, did seduce and entice
Charlotte, a slave, the property of C. W. Nuckols, to leave
her owner and possessor, and did aid and assist said slave in
an attempt to make her escape from her said owner and possessor, against the peace and dignity of the Commonwealth
W. S. DOWN{EY, Com. Attorney.
of Kentucky.
On the back of said indictment is the following endorsement:
"CA true bill; L. A. Berry, foreman. Returned by grand
jury, October term, 1859."
A copy of this indictment, certified and authenticated, according to the act of Congress of 1793, was presented to the
Governor of Ohio by the authorized agent of the Governor of
Kentucky, and the arrest and delivery of the fugitive demanded.
The Governor of Ohio referred the matter to the Attorney
General of the State of Ohio, for his opinion and advice, and
received from him a written opinion, upon which he acted,
and refused to arrest or deliver up, the fugitive, and, with hib
retusal, communicated to the Governor of Kentucky the opinion of the Attorney General, to-show the grounds on which tie
refused. The written opinion of the Attorney General is as
follows:
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL,

bolunhbus, Ohio, April 14, 1860.
SIR: The requisition, with its accompanying documents,

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

made upon you' by the Governor of Kentucky, for the surrender of Willis Lag6, described to be a "fugitive from the
justice of the laws of" that State, may, for all present purpose, be regarded as sufficiently complying with the provisions of the Federal Constitution and the act of Congress
touching the extradition of fugitives from justice, if the alleged offence charged' against Lago can be considered as
either "treason, felony, or other crime," within the fair scope
of these provisions.
Attached to the requisition is an authenticated copy of the
indictment on which the demand is predicated; and this,
omitting merely'the title of the case and the venue, is in the
words and figures following:
"The grand jury of Woodford county, in the name and by
the authorityof the Commonwealth of Kentucky, accuse Willis Lago, free man of color, of the crime of assisting a slave to
escape, &c., committed as follows, viz: the said Willis Lago,
free man of color, on the fourth day of October, 1859, in the
county aforesaid, not having lawful claim, and not having any
color of claim-thereto, did seduce and entice Charlotte, a
slave, the property of C. W. Nuckols, to leave her owner and
possessor, and did aid and assist said slave in an attempt to
make her escape from her said owner and possessor, against
the peace and dignity of the Commonwealth of Kentucky."
This indictment, it must be'admitted, is quite inartificially
framed, and it might be found difficult to vindicate its validity
according to the rules of criminal pleading which obtain in
our own courts, or wheresoever else the common law prevails.
This objection, however, if it have any force, loses its importance in the presence of other considerations, which, in my
judgment, must control the fate of the application.
The act of which Lago is thus accused by the grand jury of
Woodfbrd county certainly is not "treason," according to any
code of any country, and just as certainly is not "felony," or
any other crime, under the laws of this State, or by the common law. On the other hand, the laws of Kentucky do denounce this a.t as a "crime," and the question is thus presented whether, under the Federal Constitution, one State is

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Commonweath of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

under an obligation to surrender its citizens or residents lo'
any other State, on the charge that they have committed an
offence not known to the laws of the former, nor affecting the
public safety, nor regarded as malurn in se by the general
judgment and conscience of civilized nations.
This question must, in my opinion, be resolved against the
existence of any such obligation. There are many acts-s uch
as the creation of nuisances, selling vinous or spirituous liquors,
horse racing, trespassing on public lands, keeping tavern without license, permitting dogs t6 run at large-declared by the
laws of most of the States to be crimes, for the commission of
which the offender is visited with fine or imprisonment, or with
both; and yet it will not be insisted that the power of extradition, as defined by the Constitution, applies to these or the
like offences. Obviously a line must be somewhere drawn,
distinguishing offences which do from offences which do not
fall within the scope of this power. The right rule, in my
opinion, is that which holds the power to be limited to such
acts as constitute either treason or felony by the common law,
as that stood when the Constitution was adopted, or which are
regarded as crimes by the usages and laws of all civilized nations. This rule is sufficiently vindicated by the consideration that no other has ever been suggested, at once so easy of
application to all cases, so just to the several States, and so
consistent in its operation with the rights and security of the
citizen.
The application of this rule is decisive against the demaud
now urged for the surrender of Lago. The offence charged
against him does not rank among those upon which the constitutional provision was intended .to operate, and you have,
therefore, no authority .to comply with the requisition made
upon you by the Governor of Kentucky.
Entertaining no doubt as to the rightfulness of this cot clusion, I am highly gratified in being able to fortify it by the
nuthority of my learned and eminent predecessor, who first
Rilled this office, and who officially advised the Governor of
that (lay, that in a case substantially similar to the one now
presented, he ought not to issue his war'ant of extradition.

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennion, Governor, &c.

Other authority, if needed, may be found in the fact that this
rule, is oouformable to the ancient and settled usage of the
State.
To guard against possible misapprehension, let me add that
the power of extradition is not to be exercised, as of course,
in every case which may apparently fall within the rule here
asserted. While it is limited to these cases, the very nature
of the power is such,.that its exercise, even under this limitation, must always be guided by a sound legal discretion, applying itself to the particular circumstances of each case as it
shall be presented.
The communication, in a formal manner, of the preceding
opinion, has been long but unavoidably defer.red by causes of
which you are fully apprised. Though this delay is greatly
to be regretted, it can have had no prejudicial effect, as the
agent appointed by the Governor of Kentucky to receive
Lago was long since officially, though informally, advised that
no case had been presented which would warrant his extra.
dition.
Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
C. P. WOLCOTT.
To the GOVERNOR.

Some further correspondence took place between the Gov
ernors, which it is not necessary to state; and the Governor of
Ohio, having finally refused to cause the arrest and delivery of
the fugitive, this motion was made onl the part of Kentucky.
Upon the motion being made, the court ordered notice of
it to be served on the Governor and Attorney General of Ohio,
to appear on a day mentioned in the notice. The Attorney
General of Ohio appeared, but under a protest, made by order
of the Governor of Ohio, against the jurisdiction of the court
to issue the mandamus moved for.
The case was fully argued by Mr. Sterenson and 1t. Marshall on behalf of the State of Kentucky, and by Mr. Wolcolt,
the Attorney General of Ohio, on the part of that State.
The great importance of the principles involved in this case

DECE_1BER TERM, 1860.

71

Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

has induced the reporter to allow, a large space to the arguments of the respective counsel.
That of Xessrs. Cooper and Marshall and Mr. Stevenson, for
the State of Kentucky, was as follows:
The State of Kentucky, interested in the preservation of the
integrity of her own laws, and in the punishment of such as
offend against them on her own soil, comes, as a party plaintiff in tlais proceeding, before the Supreme Court of the United
States,' as a court of original jurisdiction, to ask for a mandamus against Mr. Dennison, who is the Governor of Ohio, and
as such, exercises the Executive authority of said State.
The second paragraph of section 2, article 4, of the Constitution of the United States, reads thus;
"A person charged in any State with treasob, felony, or
other crime, who shall flee from justice and be found in an.
other State, shall, on demand of the Executive authority of
the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed
to the State having jurisdiction of the crime."
To execute this obligation of the Constitution the act of
Congress of 1793 was passed, (Statutes at L., 302, sec. 1,) in
which, by the first section, the duty to be performed, and the
person. by whom to be performed, in the event of a demand
under the Constitution, are prescribed. That duty is simple,
and is stated thus:
"It shall be the duty of the Executive authority of the State
or Territory to which such person shall have fled, to cause
him or her to be arrested and secured, and notice of the arrest
to be given to the Executive authority making such demands,
or to the agent of such authority appointed to receive the
fugitive, and to cause the fugitive to be delivered. to such
agent when he shall appear."
I One Lago, who was indicted for an act denounced as a crime
by the law o'fKentucky, fled, and was found in Ohio, and was
demanded by Governor Magoffin, the Executive authority of
the State of Kentucky, of Governor Dennison, the Governor
of Ohio, and at the time Executive authority thereof. All the
conulitions were observed to complete a proper demand, ac-

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

cording to the act of Congress.

It is further shown that, for

reasons set forth in the official reply of Governor Dennison,
as Executive authority of Ohio, the demand was not complied
with, and that he refused to arrest Lago at all. Upon that
refusal this proceeding is taken.
The Commonwealth of Kentucky is properly the plaintiff in
this case.
"Where an application is made, the object of which is to
obtain the benefit of certain provisions of an act of Parlia*ment, &c., those for whose benefit such provisions were inserted in the act, &c., should be the applicants for the rule,
although they may be neither speciallyi nor nominally mentioned."
Tapping on Mandamus, 289.
The duty prescribed by the Constitution and law was to
have been performed by the defendant, Dennison, as the officer wielding the Executive authority of the State of Ohio. He
is, therefore, the proper person against whom to institute the
proceeding.
Is mandamus the proper remedy? We will not extend this
brief by reciting what is said of the authority of the Court of
B. R. over mandamus. It has been used since the days of
Edward fi, in England, and has been the suppletory police
power of the kingdom.
Tapping on Mandamus, 5-80.
Cowp., 878; 2 B. and C., 198.
Burrows, 1265-'68.
15 East., 185.
8 Blacks. Com., 110.
In this court it is acknowledged as an action, a case, rather
than as a"prerogative writ."
The proceeding on mandamus is a case within the meaning
of the act of Congress. It is an action or suit brought in a
court of justice, asserting a right, and-is presented according
to the forms of judicial proceeding.
12 Peters, 614; 2'Peters, 450.
It is not by the office of the person to whom the writ is
directed. bat the nature of the thing to be done, that the pro.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

73

Commonweaa of Ky.v. Dennison, Govewnor, &c.

priety or improp riety of issuing a mandamus is to be determined.
1 Cranch, 170.
This court (in3 Howard, 99) treats the mandamus as "an
action," and that "a party is entitled to it when there is no
other adequate remedy." This court refuses to entertain the
action of assumpsit for matter which might have been proved
on a former action of mandamus.
There is no remedy for the grievance inflicted on the State
of Kentucky by the refusal of Governor Dennison, unless the
mandamus applied for will lie. If mandamus will lie in any
case where the Supreme Court exercises original jurisdiction,
all considerations and conditions concur to point it out as the
proper remedy in this case; for1. The duty to be performed is single, simple, only ministerial and public in its nature and- office.
2. The party directed to perform it is certainly named.
3. No other adequate remedy exists or is prescribed by law.
4. The duty is distinctly prescribed by the Constitution and
the act of 1793.
5. The office held by Mr. Dennison does'not shield him
from the performance; "it is the nature of the duty which
determines the propriety of mandamus as a remedy."
The Supreme Court of the United States has never adjudicated the question of this remedy as now it is presented.
In the case of the United States v. Lawrence, 3 Dallas, 53,
(A. D. 1795,) this court was applied to as a court of original
jurisdiction, and it entertained the jurisdiction. The case
was disposed of on the point, that the duty of Judge Lawrence- involved the exercise of a discretion in the execution. of
his office which this court could not contro).
: In the case of Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 175, a careful
reading of the opinion will show that the mandamus was refused because the act of 1789 was unconstitutional, in so far
as it disturbed the constitutional distribution of the judicial
power of this court.. The application was to this court, in its
original jurisdiction, whereas the case belonged to it only

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

under its appellate jurisdiction, and therefore the rule was
discharged.
In McIntyre v. Wood, 7 Cranch, 504, the point was as to
the power of the Circuit Court of the United States; and the
same remark applies to the case of McCluney v. Silliman, 6
Wheat., 600. The reasoning of those cases is sufficiently satisfactory, but it has no application in this case.
Ex parte Roberts, 6 Peters, 216, and Ex parte Davenport, 6
Peters, 664, were applications to control the judge of an inferior court by mandamus, which. were refused because of the
discretion the inferior officer had the right to exercise. Ex
parte Bradstreet, 8 Peters, 634, and Ex parte Story, 12 Peters,
339, were cases addressed to this court, in the exercise of its
appellate jurisdiction; so was the case of Kendall v. United
States, which was very elaborately argued, 12 Peters, 525 to
655. Ex parte Guthrie, and all the rest of the cases of the
applications for mandamus, have been to this court as an appellate court. This is the first case in our judicial history in
which a mandamus has been asked for in a case falling properly within the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court.
The judicial power of the United States is vested, by the
Constitution, in the Supreme Court, and in such inferior
courts as Congress may from time to time establish. This
power "shall extend" to a number of classes of cases, among
which are "all cases in law or equity arising under this Constitution, the laws of the United States," &c., &c., and, within
the enumerated classes, "in all cases in which a State shall be
a party, the Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction.
It is respectfully submitted that, under these constitutional
grants of power and jurisdiction, this court may, debiojustitid',
entertain the application for mandamus where a State is a party, and this without resort to the act of Congress distributing
the means of enforcing the jurisdiction. The judicial power,
so far as this jurisdiction of the court- is concerned, is vested
by tLe Constitution; it would neither remain dormant, nor
would it expire, though the Legislative power had never passed
a law to authorize certain processes to assert such jurisdiction.
We adopt the view taken by the counsel ifl the case of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

75

CommonwealtA of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

United States v. Peters, 3 Dallas, 126:. "The judicial power is
abstract or relative; in the former character, the court, for itself, declares the law and distributes justice; in the latter, it
superintends and controls the conduct of other tribunals by a
prohibitory or mandatory interposition. This superintending
authority has been deposited in the Supreme Court by the
Federal Constitution, and it becomes a duty to exercise it
upon every proper occasion." "It is certain the Constitution
fixes no limitation to the exercise of this power by this court
upon the subject; nor does the law, but by the implication in
the 14th section of the act of 1789, that the writs issued shall
be allowable by princi*le and usage," and necessary to the
exercise of the jurisdiction belonging to the court. If mandamus would then be granted by the Court of King's Bench,
debitojustitie, it can be issued in a cise of original-jurisdiction,
upon a proper showing, by this court; and the express power
is extended by the 14th section of the judiciary act of 1789, if
the writ is necessary to the exercise of the jurisdiction belonging to the court.
If mandamus should not be regarded as a "prerogative
writ," but as an action, a case, it falls, in this matter, directly
within the vested power and original jurisdiction of the court,
and can be entertained independently of the judiciary act, as a
constitutional "power" of this court.
Where is the great conservative power which is to regulate
State sovereignties in the execution of their constitutional
obligations, if this court renounces, or shrinks friom, the legitimate exercise of the functions with which it is invested by the
Constitution?
The original jurisdiction of this court is limited to those
cases in which foreign ambassadors, ministers, consuls, and,'
American States, are interested; but in this range it has no'
limit. There is no judge who can interpose to exercise power
over them but this court, in its original jurisd.ction. From
the very nature of the Constitution, the great police power
of the mandamus, as between the States, is a necessity to the
exercise of the jurisdiction conferred on this court. Therefore, Kentucky approaches this tribunal with the violated

SUPREME COUIRT.
Commonwvealih of Ky. v. Dennison, Goveriior, &c.

obligation of Ohio in one hand, and with the Constitution in

the other, conferring full jurisdiction on this court, as a court
of original jurisdiction in all cases in law or equity in which a
State is a party, and shows that, for the grievance she suffers,
there is no legal remedy but mandamus.
"It is the case which gives the jurisdiction, not the court."
1 Wheat., Martin v. Hunter's Lessee.
Under the precepts of the law of nations, the obligation to
deliver fugitives from justice touched only a few classes of
criminals-those whose crimes "touched the State," or were
so enormous as to make them hostcs hunanigeneris-poisoners,
assassins, &c. These were delivered tip, when convicted or
tried, and sometimes before. This was done f6r comity. Vattel, Book 1, c. 19; B. 2, c. 6.
The character of this obligation was more frequently rendered certain by treaty, as in our treaties with Great Britain
and France. But the Constitution of the United States has,
among the States of the Union,, extended and enlarged the
rule of the publicists. Whereas they obeyed the demand in
cases of criminals "convicted or tried," our States obey the
demand where a person is charged with treason, felony, or
other crime; whereas they only obeyed the demand in cases
of heinous crimes, our States enter into the obligation for
"other crime," making their obligation as broad as the word
crime can be extended. Crime can be extended in its signification. Crime is synonymous with misdemeanor, (4 Black.
Com., 5,) and includes every offence below felony punished by
indictment as an -offence against the public, (9 Wendell, 222.)
We know that, in the first draft of this clause of the Constitution, the words "high misdemeanor" were used. They were
stricken out, and "other crime" inserted, because "high misdemeanor" might be technical and too limited. The framers
wanted "to comprehend all proper cases." (5 Elliott, 487.)
To use the language of a learned judge, "therp is a dependence that justice will be done; and the Constitution rests on
this confidence for the vindication of the compact for 'a more
perfect Union.'
The Constitution reposes in the Federal Government the

DECEM3ER TERM 1860.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

discretion of conducting the foreign intercourse of these States
with foreign Powers. This is manifest by the power given to
the Executive "to receive ambassadors, public minis'ters, and
consuls, and, by and with the consent of the Senate, to appoint
ambassadors and other public ministers, and consuls," and, by
and with-the consent of the Senate, to make treaties. The correlative inhibitions to the States are expressed in the same
instrument: "No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance,
or donfederation." Article 1, section 10: "No State shall
enter into any agreement with a foreign Power," &c. This
court has coincided with the view here expressed, in the opinion rendered in the case of Holmes v. Jennison, 14 Pet., 575.
A Governor of one of these United States cannot surrender a
fugitive from justice from a foreign country to the agents of
that Power. This is exclusively within the sphere of the
Federal Power. lb.
The Constitution-is harmonious in its complicated structure.
As the Federal Government is the repository of the power
ever foreign intercourse, so the inter-State intercourse is established upon a fixed and stable basis, by dispensing with
comity and the rule of the publicists, and making the obligation to render criminals to the jurisdiction they have offended
a perfect obligation, in express constitutional compact. The
.States have left themselves no discretion on this subject.
They cannot enlarge, diminish, abridge, or modify, the constitutional arrangement: "No State shall, without the consent of Congress, enter into any agreement or compact with
another Stafe," -&c.
Congress cannot waive an express and mandatory provision
of the Constitution. A person charged with treason, felony,
or other crime, &c., shall be delivered* up, &c. Can two of
these States negotiate with each other a modification of this
obligation? Certainly not. "Can they with the consent of
Congress? Certainly not. It is a fixed, welldefined, and
perfedt obligation, which furnishes all the essentials for its
own execution, if properly considered, as an inter-State obligation, subject to the Judicial branch of the Government to
onforae its. due _snd proper execution. It.expresses plainly

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, d&C.

what is to be done, upon whose demand it is to be done,
the circumstances under which it is to be done, and the purpose for which it is to be doncL By whom it is to be done,
-the Constitution did not prescribe; for, it may be, that was a
matter in which the State might have a choice. Congress
acted; yet the Executive of the State was left to be guided by
his State authority or his own responsibility as to the mode in
which he would cause the arrest and delivery of the fugitive;
but, beyond this simple and single ministerial performance,

the Constitution and the law have left him no discretion whatever. He is a mere instrument .ofthe Constitution, pointed
out by the law, because he holds the Executive authority of
his State, and is a sworn officer of the Constitution of the
United States, bound by his oath to observe its mandates, and
"the laws of the United States made in pursuance thereof, as
the supreme law of the land, even in preference to those of
his own State. The Executive authority of the State was
indicated, because the duty to be performed was of a very
delicate nature, and a discourteous exhibition of power within
the demesnes of a State was to be avoided, such. as arresting
one, without regular process, who might be within the protection of the State.
It would not be within the right or competency of the State
of Ohio to refuse this delivery. All her departments could
not make a law effective to prevent it. Can her Executive
alone avoid it? If he can, why may not any one else, no
matter how appointed or in what way qualified? Another
could not be qualified by a stronger oath to support the Constitution, and the laws of the United States made in pursuance
of it; for the Constitution requires this Executive to take that
oath, and qualifies his right to the gubernatorial chair of his
State by the fact of his taking or refusing to take that oath.
Were he to refuse, as Governor of Ohio, to take the oath to
support the Constitution of the United States, and to maintain the laws made inpursuance thereof, is there no power,
by mandamus, in the Judicial Department of this Government, to compel obedience to a duty expressed on the face of
the Constitution?

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Commonwealth of Z. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

The State of Ohio must be considered as yet- willing to
abide by her constitutional obligation, for this refusal is not
the act of the Government of the State; it is only the act of
her Executive, of one department of her Government. The
State is bound so strongly by the terms of the Constitution,
she cannot refuse. If, then, she is consenting, and Kentucky
is demanding, and only Mr. Dennison refusing, it remains
to be seen whether there resides in the Judicial Department
of the Federal Government power to compel him to the performance of a ministerial duty assigned to him by law, in
order to execute the inter-State covenants inscribed in the
Constitution. In that memorable case of Prigg v. Pennsylvania, (16 Pet., 539,) several leading principles of construction
were asserted, to the observance of which we now invite the
attention of this court.
1. When the end is required, the means are given ; when
the duty is enjoined, the ability to perform it is contemplated
to exist on the part of the functionaries to whom it is intrusted.
2. The General Government is bound, through its own departments, Legislative, Judicial, or Executive, as the case may
be, to carry into effect all the rights and duties imposed upon
it by the Constitution.
We are perfectly aware that reliance may be placed on the
very case from which -these' principles are extracted, to prove
that the obligationl to deliver the fugitive from justice is "exclusively Federal," and that, therefore, it may be insisted that
Congress cannot direct a State Executive authority to execute
it, but must impose this duty on some person who will be
amenable, as belonging to one of the departments of the
Federal Government: The court says the obligation is "ex-'
elusively Federal"-tbat "the States cannot be compelled to
enforce it." From this dictum the inference is drawn that, if
the person indicated to perform the duty, (though it be only,
ministerial,) holds any office under the State Government, this
court cannot or will not compel him-to perform the duty, but
will wait for Congress to remodel the legislation of. 1793, so
as to make the person exclusively a Federal officer. We resist the propriety of such inference -from the points deciled

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

by the court in Prigg's case. The court alluded to the resort
which the claimant of a fugitive from service must have to the
Judiciary to ascertain a fact, in order to support a right upon
the finding of the fact, and did intimate that the action of the
State magistracy was voluntary, though valid, unless prohibited
by the State. In the case of a fugitive from justice, however,
there is no fact to be ascertained, no question to be adjudicated, no necessity to appeal to any one to support a right,
but simply to deliver upon a demand. Will it be replied that,
to afford even this facility, Congress must, by law, indicate
who is to perform the duty? We rejoin, that Congress has so
indicated by the act of 1793. As well might the defendant
plead his citizenship or inhabitancy in Ohio to relieve him, as
that he is relieved by being Governor, or holding an office by
authority of the State. The power of this Government extends so far that the performance of a public duty may be
demanded, and the incumbent of a particular office may be
required to perform it, especially where the duty is only ministerial, though at the same time he may be in office in the
State. We think it is eminently proper that the Executive
authority of the State should be the power indicated for the
performance of this duty; because that officer is, at the same
time, sworn to support the Constitution of the United States,
and the laws of Congress made in pursuance thereof; and because he represents the State on which the demand is made,
and is bound by the constitutional compact on which the demand is founded.
The obligation is said to be "exclusively Federal." Does
it not bind the State of Ohio? Is it not from her power the
compact subtracts? We think the State has peculiarly come
under the obligation expressed in the clause in question. Her
hands are tied by the clause. Without the clause she might
have been guided by her own discretion or by comity; .now
she is obliged, by the terms of the covenant to which she has
consented. It may be she cannot be compelled to enforce the
delivery of the fugitive; it may be the General Government is
compelled, through its own departments, "to carry this into
effect;" but that necessity does not shift the obligation.

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

, 81

Commonweallh of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

The citizen owes obedience to the law, and is under obligation
to perform the duties the law enjoins; but, if he fails, the
court enforces the law, and secures the right which was infringed by the violation of the duty. Nothing can be more
familiar than an obligation resting upon one party, and the
right and power to enforce its execution vested in another.
We submit, very respectfully' that this is just the case under
our Constitution. The obligation to surrender the fugitive
from justice rests upon the State; the power and-duty to enforce the obligation reside in the General Government. The
State of Virginia failing in 1790 to deliver certain fugitives
upon the demand of Governor Mifflin, of Pennsylvania, he
brought the facts before the President, and the act of 1793
was the consequence, whereby the Executive of the State was
directed to perform the duty answering such demand. Every
condition has been met. They who would escape the conclusion at which we wish t6 arrive must take the position not
only that, in our system, the States may prohibit the use of
their State agencies to the General Government in carrying
the supreme law into effect within their boundaries, but this
further position, that it is not in the power of the Federal
Government to demand of any on-e in a State to perform -a
duty essential to the execution of the obligations inscribed in
the Constitution.
We may well ask the Supreme Court to pause before ruling
to this extent. When we remember that all Executive, Legislative, and Judicial officers, in the several States, are kequired,
by the express letter of the Constitution of the United States,
to be sworn "to support the Constitution,"'and that "the laws
of Congress made in pursuance thereof are the supreme law
of the land," overriding all State laws coming into conflict
with them-that this body of State officers is bound solemnly
to render obedience primarily to this supreme law, even in
their respective jurisdictions, and though opposed to their
State laws-it is difficult to comprehend the wisdom of that
policy which teaches that those States can prohibit the use of
these agencies in carrying into effect those very law-" which
the State has consented to observe as the supreme law, and its
voL. XXIV.
6

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky.v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

agents have been sworn to support as paramount. It seems
to us that the policy leads to a multiplication of officers, thus
increasing the burdens of the people, and to conflicts between
State and Federal agencies, by inculcating the idea that there
is an incompatibility in the exercise of official fidelity to the
State and Federal jurisdictions at the same time. Under our
system of government, administered in its true spirit, there
never can be a conflict. It is pernicious to the best interests
to build on this foundation, for "a house divided against itself
will fall." The State functionary owes allegiance and obedience to the Constitution of the United States, and the laws
made in pursuance thereof, before everything else. The State
owes the same obedience and observance to the same power.
The Constitution enters and pervades our system evdrywhere.
It surrounds the States and the people like an atmosphere
vital to them, and ever in contact with them. To the officials
of States, in every department of State Government, it is ever
present with the oath to be rendered for its support, to remind
them that, while they perform the functions of a limited jurisdiction, they are at the same time the conservative sentinels
of that larger system, whose forces control the course and destiny of their State and of their fellow-citizens.. The planet
of the heavens revolves upon its own axis, and, pursues its
peculiar orbit; but it, and all who inhabit it, are at the same
time particles of an infinite system, whose balanced and regulated forces acting upon it assure its safety, and preserve it
from destructive collision with the spheres that surround it.
The plafnet and its inhabitants are not taught that they cannot
obey the laws of the Great Architect and Ruler.
The Constitution of the United States engages three articles
in asserting the construction of its departments of Government, defining. their powers, and prohibiting the ekercise of
these to the States. So precise is it, that no restraint is laid
upon a State but that an examination will prove it is because
the same poWdr vested in the new Government. With the
4th article a new class is entered upon ; they are fiot powers,
but obligations and compacts, in which it is impossible to un'derstand anything else (as it seems to us) than that. the States

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

83

Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

are bound inter se, andare understood to be actors. They are
a class of cases to be rendered effective by the action of the
States, and by the action of the General Government-concui rent powers. The rule is well settled that in such cases,
when Congress acts, the rule it establishes obtains.
We submit to the court that the case of Prigg v. Pennsylvania has been modified by the subJsequent decision of Moore
v. the People of Illinois, (14 Howard,) so far .at-least as to
authorize State legislation, which is ancillai'y to the effectuation of the obligation to be "carried into effect" by the Federal power. We hope the court will not carry the exclusive
action of the Federal power so far as to say that it cannot indicate "the Executive authority of a State," as the instrument
to perform the purely ministerial act required by the 2d section, 4th article, of the Constitution.
We refer, especially, to the opinion of Justice McLean in
Prigg's case, because it is directly in line with the views we
now present, and seems, to us to be conclusive.
The duty required of the Governor of Ohio, in arresting a
fugitive from justice, results from an express obligation of his
State, which he, as the Executive authority of that State, is
directed by the act of seventeen hundred and ninety-three to
carry out. He has no judgment to exercise touching the
point of arrest. He -cannot even hear a question on the point
of identity of person, that a judge might hear on habeascorpus.
He cannot consider the question of guilt or innocence.
9 Wendell, 221.
We refer to Clark's case because it is a strong case, adjudicated in the better days of the Republic by a patriotic public
officer, who strove only to perform his duty under the law.
May every State Executive at pleasure violate the Constitution in its most direct mandates, and most express obligations?
Has the Judicial power an arm not strong enough to reach
him? If so, the obligations of the Constitution may at any
time and under any pretext be avoided; the instrument is a
myth.
Governor Dennison has mistaken his poVer in this iatter,
by assuming the discretion to judge in regard to the alleged

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

crime. The words of the Constitution are unambiguous.
That the crime is to be judged by'the law of the State through
whose Executive the demand is made, appears from the Constitution itself, for the object of the delivery of the fugitive is,
"that he may be removed to the State having jurisdiction of
the crime." To say that the authority on whom the demand
is made shall judge of the guilt of the party, or of the fact of
the crime, or whether the alleged act is a crime, is to nullify
the sense, object, and intent, of the framers of the Constitution, and to assume a supervisory power by the Executive of
a State over the law-making and police powers of another
State. The police power of the States was reserved, and has
never been surrendered to the Federal Government.
Moore v. the People of Illinois, 14 Howard, 18.
11 Pet., 139.
The Governor of Ohio, in refusing the demand, has not
denied his general responsibility, under the Constitution and
'aw of the United States, to make delivery of a fugitive from
justice. His refusal was based upon the allegation that the
offence charged in the Kentucky indictment was not crime,
according to the signification of that wo'd in the Constitution,
and that therefore there was no obligation to deliver arising
under the compact, nor springing from comity, because the
offence was not known to civilized nations generally, to the
common law, or to the statutes or polity of Ohio. In the
views we have submitted already as to the duty of Governor
Dennison, these positions are controverted. To confine the
term to such offence as was denominated crime at the date of
the Constitution, would give a restricted operation to the
itistrument, which would vastly iihpair its adaptation to the
progress and wants of society. It would, in effect, destroy
the force of' this clause of the Constitution at its inception,
and, instead of placing the States in bonds of mutual obligation to vindicate the jurisdiction of each other through future
years, would make each a supervisor of the police power of
•the others, and, by reason of conflicting policies in their progress, would iievitably lead to alienation, confusion, and ultimate discord. "The instrument was not intende.l to provide

85

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Gommonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

merely for the exigencies of a few years, but was to endure
through a lapse of ages, the events of which were locked up
in the inscrutable purposes of Providence.

*

*

*

Hence

its-powers are expressed in general terms," &c.
1 Wheat., 305, 326.
The instrument was intended not only for those who framed
it, but for posterity; not merely for the society of 1787, but
for American society in all future time, and embraced in the
word "crime" not merely what was punishable by indictment
at the date of the instrument, but whatever each State in its
progress might so declare. If this be not true, this family of
American States are not connected by links stronger than a
rope of sand. We will not elaborate this point further in this
place, but may, if deemed proper, dwell uipon it hereafter,
together with reference to such works as will justify the views
we suggest.
It only remains for the counsel for the demandant to say
that the State of Kentucky, in bringing this case before the
Supreme Court, pursues the law as it exists, and asks its enforcement, if the law can be enforced. If the act of Congress
has exceeded the power vested in Congress by the Constitution, and we have been, since 1793, acting through instruments over which the Government has no control, Kentucky
desires, through the Supreme Court, to know the fact, so that
Congress may, without delay, so treat this important subject
as hereafter to assure the faithful and prompt execution of
this clause of the Constitution. .To her it is a vital question;
as to all the other States, in fact, whose institutions are similar to hers.
The argument of MAfr. Wolcott, on behalf of the State of Ohio,
was as follows:
I. The Government of the United States is one of limited
and enumerated powers, derived primarily from the specific
grants of the Constitution, which is at once the source and
the law of all its being. It is a necessary correlative of this
proposition, and one declared by the fundamental law itself,
that each State still retains complete, exclusive, and supreme

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor,

power, over all persons and things within its limits, where
that power has not been specially granted or restrained by the
Constitution; and that, in respect to all this mass of undelegated and unprohibited power, the States stand to each other
and to the General Government as absolutely foreign nations.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat., 203--208.
Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat., 419, 443.
Wilson v. Blackbird Creek Co., 2 Peters, 251, 252.
Buckner v. Finley, 2 Peters, 586, 590.
New York-v. Miln,.11 Peters, 62, 139.
United States Bank v. Daniel, 12 Peters, 32, 34.
hode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Peters, 720.
License Cases, 5 How., 504, 588.
II. The Judicial Department of the .Federal Government,
sharing of necessity the intrinsic -quality which marks that
Government in its unity, is also one of limited .and specific
powers, and, in its tribunals of evetry grade, is subject to three
conditions, of universal application:
1. Ex vi termini, it is confined to the discharge of functions
purely judic;al in their nature.
Hayburn ' Case, in nots, 2 Dall., 409.
2. These functions can be exerted only in the precise cases
enumerated by the Constitution as subject to the.judicial
authority, and which, it has been said, range themselves in
two general lasses:
a. Cases in which the authority depends on the nature of
the controversy, with6ut respect to the character of the parties; andb. Cases in which the authority depends on the charac, er
of the parties, without regard to the nature of the controversy.
Cohlpns'v. Virginia, 6 Wheat., 264, 293.
But this is evidently to be taken as subject to another qualfication ; for3. The judicial power exercised in these specific cases must
be the "judicial power: of theUnited States." In other words,
the. authority of the Judicial Department is restrained not only
by the limitations specially affixed to" it, but also by those
-more general. considerations which -grow out of the very na-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Commonweala of Ky. v. Dennitso

Govemar, & .

tare and purpose of a Federal Government. Thus the judicial power of the United States cannot extend to a controversy
in which a State may, even by, a purely civil action, pursue a
citizen of another State for his violation of its municipal laws.
Though in that instance the controversy would, as to its subjectmatter, be one proper for judicial cognizance, in the general
sense of that term, and would also, in respect. of its parties, fall
within the enumerated cases, yet no tribunal of the United
States could entertain it, because all matters of merely internal
concern have been kept by the States for their own original,
exclusive, and sovereign cofitrol.
lNew York City v. Miln, 11 Pet., 189.
License Cases, 5 How., 588.
JIl. The Supreme Court of the United States, while fettered by each of the conditions so attaching to the whole
Judicial Department-of which it is simply the highest organ-has been otherwise so narrowly confined as to permit it
to wield, in an original form, only a very 'scant degree of the
scant power confided to the range of the Judicial Department.
The Constitution assumed the existence of, but diWl not creaie
this tribunal, and it delineated the outlines of the judicial
authority with which-it might or should be endowed. Of necessity, all judicial power must be exerted in an -original or
appellate fofm, and the Constitution has declared the precise
cases in which, under either of thesq forms, the judicial powez
of the.United States may be imparted to the Supreme Court.
The orginal jurisdiction, (and the present inquiry concerns
that alone,) thus permitted to it, is expressly limited to1. Cases "affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, or
consuls;" and2. Cases ".in which a State shall be a party," and, since
the adoption of the eleventh amendment, in which a State
shall be the plaintiff, or other pursuing party. This means,
that a State, in its sole corporate capacity5 shall be the "entire prosecuting party on the record," with a persona standi fln
judicio of its own-a direct legal or equitable right pertaining
to it, as a distinct unity. It is not enough that it maybe
"consequentially affected- or indirectly interested."

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky.v. Dennison, Governor,&c.

Fowler v. Lindsay, 3 Dall., 411.
United States v. Peters, 5 Cranch, 115, 139.
Osborne v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat., 738, 850-857.
United States Bank v. Planters' Bank, 9 Wheat., 904,
906.
Wheeling Bridge Case, 13 How., 518, 559.
IV. The Constitution does not, of itself, vest any power of
action in the Supreme Court. It simply enables the court,
under the regulating control of Congress, to exert judicial
authority in the prescribed cases; but the existence in the
court of the power itself, and the methods and instruments of
its exercise, depend on the affirmative legislative action of
Congress. 'The Supreme Court, in respect of both forms of
its jurisdiction, is the organ of the Constitution and the law.
Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall., 419, 432, 452.
Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, 173.
Bollman's Case, Ex parte, 4 Cranch, 75, 93, 94.
Wayman v. Southard, 10 Wheat., 1, 21, 22.
New York v. New Jersey, 5 Pet., 284, 290.
Crane's Case, Ex parte, 5 Pet., 190, 193.
Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet., 657, 721, 722.
Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet., 52 , 622.
Christie's Case, Ex parte, 3 IHow., 293, 322.
The Congress, exercising its power in this behalf, has regulated the jurisdiction of this couft, and its forms and mode of
proceeding. These regulations, so far as they bear upon the
present purpose, are substantially as follows:
1. The original cognizance of this court, as- to cases in
which a State is a party, has been limited to "controversies
of a civil nature "-a limitation not expressed by the Constitution, and yet certainly effectual.
udiciary Act, sec. 13.
2. Power has been given to the Supreme Court to issue
two named writs: the writ of prohibition to a- named court,
for a nam'ed purpose , and the "writ of mandamus, in cases
warranted by the principles and usages of law, to auny courts
appointed, or persons holding office, under the authority ofthe United States."

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

89'

Cornmonweath of Ky. v. Dennison, Govmro, &c.

Judiciary Act, sec. 13.
The general authority to regulate its modes of proceeding
.onferred on this court by the "process act," (sec. 2,) and to
,ssue "other writs," ancillary to the exercise of its jurisdiction, conferred by the judiciary act, (see. 14,) does not enable
the court to enlarge the uses of the writ of mandamus. The
process act expressly shuts out from its operation "the forms
of proceeding," which "are provided for by the judiciary act;"
and the judiciary act, in terms, limits the c6urt to the issue of
"such other writs" as are "not specially provided for by statute." Moreover, on settled and necessary principles, the express grant of this writ, as against a specific class of functionaries-otherwise within the scope of its most ordinary .uses,
and to whom, as of course, it would run, without distinct
grant, if the court had a geideral authority to employ it-is a
clear exclusion of any such authority, and an emphatic prohibition against the use of the writ in any other ease, for any
other purpose.
Christie, Ex parte, 3 How., 293, 322.
V. Arranging, in continuous order, the ascertained general conditions which limit the existence and exercise of the
original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in all possible
cases, except only those "affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers, and colisuls," of whom there is now no. question,
it will be seen that no controversy can gain a foothold here,
unless it be1. Appropriate for the action of judicial, as distinguished
from political power.
2. Within the scope of "the judicial power of the United
States," as distinguished from the general mass of judicial
power reserved by and to the several States for their own exclusive exercise.
3. Instituted by a State, as the "entire party" plaintiff on
record, in virtue of such direct legal or equitable interest in
the subject-matter as, accoyding to the ordinary rules applied
to other parties, entitles it to "move 2' ' case at law, or in
equity, against a party subject to the control of the court.

SUPREME COURT
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Gore? aor,&c.

4. Of a "civil" as opposed to one of a criminal "nature;"
and5. Conducted in a form of proceeding consistent with its
subject-matter, with the character of its parties, and with the
regulations prescribed by Congress for the use of that form
of proceeding.
But the controversy, if a vR " of mandamus can be so called,
moved for by the present application, has no one of all these
vital characteristics; forVI. The subject-matter of the controversy excludes it from
discussion or adjudication by any judicial tribunal.
1. It is not appropriate for the action of judicial power,
since it only concerns the execution of a compact between
States-independent as to each other-for the extradition of
fugitive offenders. Affecting the States at large as to their
exterior relations, and their reciprocal national rights and
duties, it is, in essence, a political question. Without express
provision, committing them, under specific regulations, to the
judicial authority, the performance of national engagements
addresses itself to the department wielding the political power,
and able to weigh political considerations. No such valid provision has been made in respect of this coinpact.
Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, 170.
United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat., 610, 634, 670.
The Divina Pastora, 4 Wheat., 52, 63.
Foster v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 253, 307, 314.
Cherokee Nation v. Georgia, 5 Peters, 1, 20.
United States v. Arredondo, 6 Peters, 691, 735.
2. If fit for judicial cognizance under any circumstances,
or by any tribunal, the subject of the proceeding is, neverthe-

less, not within the scope of the judicial power of the United
States.
a. The Constitution has not granted any power to any
department of the Federal Government concerning the reclamation of fugitives from justice, as between the States. The
provision which it contains in this behalf is a simple engagement made by the States with each other, regulating matters
of purely Stale coiceri,, and addressed to the States alone;

DECIhMBER TERM, 1860.

91

£'ommonwealth of Ky v. Deinnison, Governor, &c.

If, as an original question, this interpretation could be doubted, it has become the fixed one by long usage and acquiescence. Since the foundation of the Government, each State
has habitually determined for itself the extent of this obligation; many of them (and Kentucky is one, 1 Stanton's Rev.
Stat., 557) have regulated its discharge by express enactment;
Nut never, until now, has the authority of the Federal Government been invoked to constrain its fulfilment. This practical
exposition, acted upon for nearly eighty years, is too strong
and obstinate to be shaken or controlled.
.Note.-Upon this ground, as well as aiiother, yet to be noticed, the act of Congress relating to fugitives from justice is
clearly void. No inference of power in the Federal Government over this subject can be drawn from acquiescence in its
provisions, for the act, in defining the cases to which it extends, follows the precise language of the stipulation itself,
and, in terms, leaves its execution wholly to the authorities
of the States themselves. The -States, doubtless, have generally observed the rules it declares for the mere manner of
surrender; not, however, as having the force of law, but by
reason of their inherent fitness and convenience.
VII. The proceeding is not one in which a State is the pursuing party on the record; hor is any State so interested in
its subjectmatter as to be entitled to pursue here any form
of controversy in respect to it; nor ib the adversary party one
over whom this court can, under any circumstances, or by any
mode, exercise any control.
1. The writ of mandamus-as will hereafter more dis.
tinctly" appear-is a prerogative writ, issued by the Government, in its.own-name, to its own functionaries, to redress or
prevent a wrong done or threatened to itself as a Government.
Awarded upon this ground and for this purpose, the Government is, of ilecessity, the prosecutor on the record. The relator is no "party" to the writ, and the writ constitutes ne
whole "case," or "controversy." If granted in this base, it
will be a proceeding instituted by "The United States of America" against "The Governor of Ohio." Though the State of
Kentucky may be interested in the performance of that duty,

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

yet the writ will issue upon reasons of public policy, simply t3
constrain the discharge of a public duty, imposed by the authority of the General Government, and essential to its own
peculiar welfare. But if the applicant for the writ can be
deemed the prosecuting party of record, still2. The Commonwealth of Kentucky has not such an interest in the discharge of the asserted duty as entitles her to
set the writ in motion. The ground on which it must base
its interest in the extradition of Lago is simply one phase of
that general obligation, springing out of the social compact
itself, which binds every organized political community to
avenge all injuries aimed at the being or welfare of its society.
Certainly, this is the first and highest of all governmental
duties; but nevertheless it is, in juridical language, a "duty
of imperfect obligation," incapable in its essence of precise
exposition or admeasurement, and its fulfilment depends on
moral and social considerations, accosting the community at
large, which a judicial tribunal can neither weigh, define, nor
enforce. But if there be any such right in this behalf as
may constitute a foundation for legal proceedings to enforce
it, then3. The claim made for the surrender of Lago must be prosecuted by the Executive authority, eo nornine, of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. That "authority" alone is empowered
by the Constitution to demand the extradition, and, by parity
of reason, can alone institute proceedings for its enforcement.
But a suit by or against a State functionary, as such, is not a
suit by or against the State itself.
Osborne v.United States Bank, 9 Wheat., 852, 859.
United States Bank v. Planters' Bank, 9 Wheat., 904.
4. The official personage against whom the writ is prayed
is not subject, in any form or degree, to the jurisdiction of this
court. The proceeding is against him in his official character
and respects his official duty; so that if from any cause the
present incumbent of the office should, prior to the execution
of the writ, be divested of his official position, the writ itself
would, in the same instant and et necessitate rei, fall impotenta mere brutum fulmen. The proceeding, then, is aimed- at the

DECEMBER TERM, i860.
Commonwealth of 'Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

93-

supreme Executive of the State of Ohio, to "coerce" the exercise of one of its imagined functions. But no power has
been confided to any Department of the Federal Government
to iiupose a duty upon any functionaries of a State, or to constrain the discharge of their offi'cial concerns.
Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, I Wheat., 804, 836.
Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat., 1, 21, 22..
Prigg v. Pennsylvania, 16 Peters, 539.
Note.-Upon this ground, also, the act of Congress relating
to fugitives from justice, which speaks only to State authorities, is void.
VMTI. The controversy raised by the motion is not of a civil
nature. Itinvolves no question of the rights of person or the
rights of property. The power of the court is invoked simply
in aid of the administration of the criminal code of Kentucky,
to the end that she may be able to try Lago for an imputed
offence against her laws, and, if guilty, to imprison him in her
penitentiary:
IX. The original jurisdiction of this court cannot be exercised through the method of the writ of mandaniius; and this
disability springs as well from the inherent nature of the writ
itself as from the regulations prescribed for its use by theLegislative power.
1. The nature and functions of the writ are so peculiar as
to forbid its employment, save for a single purpose,- by any bf
the courts of the United States. The writ comes to us from
the common law; and this court has judicially determined that
the common-law remedies in the Federal tribunals are to be
according to the principles of that law as settled in England,
(Campbell v. Robinson, 3 Wheat., 221,) subject, of course, to,
the modifications made by Congress, or under its authority,
and also to such limitations as result from the constitution Df
the -court and the nature of the Federal Government. According to these principles, this writ, as tersely defined by
Lord Mansfield, is "a high prerogative one, flowing from the
King himself, sitting in the Court of King's Bench, superintending the police, and preserving the peace of the country.'
Rex v. Barker, 1 Bl. Rep., 300, 352.

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Zy.v. Dennison, Gove-nor, &c.

Stated in a different form, the writ at common law is issued
by a tribunal in which not only the judicial sovereignty, but
the prerogative of general superintendency resides, and it is
employed extra-judicially (Audley v. Jay, Popham, 176) as
well as judicially. Its judicial use is to supervise the administration of the King's justice by his inferior judicatures; and
its extra-judicial function is "to preserve peace, order, and
good government," by constraining the prompt and rightful
performance of every public duty confided to any public fune
tionary or tribunal by ".Parliament or the King's Charter."
Tapping on Mandamus, S. 6, 11, 12.
Bacon's Ab. Tit. Mandamus, A.
Butler's Nisi Prius, 195.
Rex v. Baker, 3 Burr, 1266.
Rex v. Bank of England, 2 Barn. and Ald., 622.
Rex v. Fowey, 2 Barn. and Cr., 596.
Rex v. North Riding, 2 Barn. and Cr., 290.
Re:k v. E. C. Railway, 10 Ad. and El., 557.
Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 621.
But this court is one of very special and limited jurisdiction.
The judicial sovereignty, in its general sense, does not reside
here; and it has no prerogative power, no police power, no
power to superintend the conduct of public. affairs. All its
ittributes are purely judicial; and from its very constitution,
the power to issue this writ, in the large sense of the common
law, cannot be given to this court. Of necessity, it can employ the writ only in its judicial operation, and as a revisionary
process directed to some inferior judicature charged with the
administration of the justice of the Federal Government.
Otherwise stated, the court cannot, under the Constitution, be
empowered to issue the writ of mandamus, save to the inferior
judicatures of the United States, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.
Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cranch, 137, 176.
Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 524, 621.
2. The judicial act, as already noticed, in regulating the
conditions under which the great common-law writs may be
issued by this court,.has interdieted the employment of this

DECEMBER TERM, i860.
Commonwedth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

wit, except as it may, agreeably to "the principles and usage,
of law," be directed against "courts appointed, or persons
holding office, under the authority of the United States.!' (See.
13.) In effect, however, the power to issue the writ is not
co-extensive with even the, narrow boundaries so prescribed.
For the court, considering the validity of this provision, and
recognising the incompatibility of any of the common-law
functions of the writ with the limited and peculiar nature of
its original power, has solemnly determined that the Constitution prohibits it from issuing the writ, except to the courts of
the Federal Government, in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.
Marbury v. Madison, 1 Oranch, 137, 176.
Kendall v. United States, 12 Peters, 524, 621.
But the party against whom the writ is now invoked does
not come within either of the categories prescribed by the
judicial act. The Governor of Ohio is not a "court appointed,
or a person holding office, under the authority of the United
States."
X. The results now attained demonstrate that the contro.
versy which the present application seeks to inaugurate is, in
its form and in its essence, in its whole and in its every part
and element, beyond the utmost sweep of the jurisdiction of
this court. The power to compose this national and political
strife does-not reside in this tribunal; the pursuing party cannot cross its threshold; the party pursued is without the
reach of its arm;'the subject of the dificrence has been ex-luded from its action; and the writ which it is solicited to
grant has .been denied to it as a method for the exercise of its
original jurisdiction.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The court is sensible of the importance of this case, and of
the great interest and gravity of the questions involved in it,
and which have been raised and fully argued at the bar.
Some of them, however, are not now for the first time
brought to the attention of this court; and. the objections made
to the jurisdiction, and the form and nature of the process ti

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of hYy. v. Dennison, Govermor, &c.

be issued, and upon whom it is to be served, have all been
heretofore considered and decided, and cannot now be regarded
as open to further dispute.
As early as 1792, in the case of Georgia v. Brailsford, the
court exercised the original jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution, without any further legislation by Congress, to regulate it,, than the act of 1789. And no question was then
made, notr any doubt then expressed, as to the authority of
the court. The same power was again exercised without objection in the case of Oswold v. the State of Georgia, in which
tl.court regulated the form and nature of the process against
the State, and directed it to be served on the Governor and
Attorney General. But in the case of Chisholm's Executors
v. the State of Georgia, at February term,. 1793, reported in 2
Dall., 419, the authority of the court inthis respect was questioned, and brought to its attention in the argument.of counsel; and the report shows how carefully and thoroughly the
subject was considered. Each of the judges delivered a separate opinion, in which these questions, as to the jurisdiction
of the court, and the mode of exercising it, are elaborately examined.
Mr. Chief Justice Jay, Mr. Justice Cushing, Mr. Justice
Wilson, and Mr. Justice Blair, decided in favor of the jurisdiction, and held that process served on the Governor and
Attorney General was sufficient. Mr. Justice Iredell differed,
and thought that further legislation by Congress was necessary to give the jurisdiction, and regulate the manner in which
it should be exercised. But the opinion of the majority of
the court upon these points has always been since followed.
And in the case of New Jersey v. New York, in 1831, 5 Pet.,
284, Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the
court, refers to the case of Chisholm v. the State of Georgia,
and to the opinions then delivered, and the judgment pronounced, in terms of high respect, and after enumerating the
various cases in which tlat decision had been acted on, yeaffirms it in the following words:

"It has been settled by our predecessors, on great-deliberation, that this court may exercise its original jurisdiction in

DECEMBER TERM,. 1860.

97

Commonweuth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

suits against a State, under the authority conferred by the
Constitution and existing acts of Congress. The rule respeoting the process, the persons on whom*it is to be served, and
the time of service, are fixed. The course of the court, on the
failure of the State to appear after due service of process, has
been also prescribed."
And in the same case, page 289, he states in full the process
which had been established by the court as a rule of practice
in the case of Grayson v. the State of Virginia, 8 Dall., 320,
and ever since followed.

This rule directs, "that when pro-

cess at common law, or in equity, shall issue against a State,
the same shall be served upon the Governor or chieF Executive magistrate and the Attorney General of such State."
It is equally well settled, that a mandamus in modern prac.
tice is nothing more than an action at law between the parties,
and is not now regarded as a prerogative writ. It undoubtedly came into use by virtue of the prerogative power of the
English Crown, and was subject to regulations and rules
which have long since been disused. But the right to the
writ, and the power to issue it, has ceased to depend upon any
prerogative power, and it is now regarded as an ordinary
process in cases to which itis applicable. It was so held
by this court in the cases of Kendall v. United States, 12 Pet.,
615; kendall v. Stokes and others, 3 How., 100.
So, also, as to the process in the name of the Governor, in
his official capacity, in behalf of the State.
In the case of Madraso v. the Governor of Georgia, 1 Pet.,
110, it was decided, that in a case where the chief magistrate of a State is sued, not by his name as an individual,
but by his style of office, and the claim made upon him is entirely in his official cliaracter, the State itself may be considered a party on the record. This was a case where the State
was the defendant; the practice, where it is plaintiff, has been
frequently adopted of suing in the name of the Governor in
behalf of the Staie, and was indeed the form originally used,
and always recognised as the suit of the State.
Thus, in the first case to be found in our reports, in which
a suit was brought by a State, it was entitled, aud set forth in
VOL. XXIV

7

SUPREME COURT.
v. Den nison, Governor, &c.
of
Commonwealth qKy.

the bill, as the suit of "the State of Georgia, by Edward Tell
fair, Governor of the said State, complainant, against Samuel
Brailsford and others;" and.the second case, which was as
early as 1793, was entitled and set forth in the pleadings as
the suit of "His Excellency Edward Tellfair, Esquire, Governor and Commander-in-chief in and over the State of Georgia, in behalf of the said State, complainant, against Samuel
Bra.ilsford and others, defendants."
The cases referred to leave no question open to controversy,
as to the jurisdiction of the court. They show that it has been
the established doctrine upon this subject- ever since the act
of 1789, that in all cases where original jurisdiction is given
by the Constitution, this court has authority to exercise it
without any furthef act of Congress to regulate its process or
confer jurisdiction, and that the court may regulate and mould
the process it uses in such manner as in its judgment will best
promote the purposes of justice. And that it has also been
settled, that where the State is a party, plaintiff or defendant,
the Governor represents the State, and the suit may be, in
form, a suit by him as Governor in behalf of the State, where
the State is plaintiff, and he must be summoned or notified as
the officer representing the State, where the State is defendant.
And ftirther, that the writ of mandamus does not issue from
or by any prerogative power, and is nothing more than the
ordinary process of a court of justice, to which every one is
entitled, where it is the appropriate process for asserting the
right he clainis.
We may therefore dismiss the question of jurisdiction without further comment, as it is very clear, that if the right
claimed by Kentucky can be enforced by judicial process, the
proceeding by mandamus is the only mode in which the object can be accomplished.
This brings us to the examination of the clause of the Constitution which has given rise to this controversy. It is in the
following words:
"A person charged in any State with treason, felony, or
other crime, who shall flee from justice, and be found in another State, shall, or demand of the Executive authority of the

DEOEM-BER TERM, 1860.
Comaonwealt of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

State from which he fled, be delivered ipi to be removed to
the State having jurisdiction of the crime?'
Looking to the-language of the clause; it is difficult to comprebend how any doubt could have arisen as to its meaning
and construction. The words, "treason, felony, or other
crime," in their plain and obvious import, as well as in their
legal and *technical sense, embrace every act tbrbidde, dnd
made punishable by a law of the State. The'word "crime"
of itself includes every offence, from the highest to the lowest
in the grade of o[lYnces, and includes what are called "misdemeanors," as well as treason and felony.
.4 Bi. Com., 5, 6, and note3, Wendall's
edition.
But ts the word crime would have included treason and
felony, without specially menutioning those ofibnces, it seems
to be supposed that the natural and legal import of the word,
by associating it with those offences, must be restricted and
confined to offences already known' to the common law and to
the usage of nations, and regarded as offences in every civilized community, and that they do not extend to acts made
offences by local statutes growing out of local circumstances,
nor to offences against ordinary police regulations. This is
one of the grounds upon which the Governor of Ohio refused
to deliver Lago, under the advice of the Attorney General of
that State.
But this inference is founded upon an obvious mistake as
to the purposes for which the words "treason and felony"
were introduced. - They were introduced for the purpose of
guarding against any restriction of the word "crime," and to
prevent this provision from being construed by the rules and
usages of independent nations in compacts for delivering up
fugitives from justice. According to these usages, even where
they almitted the obligation to deliver the fugitive, persons
%vho-fled on account of political offences were almost always
excepted, and the nation'upon which the demand is made also
uniformly claims 'and exercises a discretion in weighing the
evidence of the crime, and the character of the offence. The
policy of different nations, in this respect, with the opinions
-of eminent writers upon public law, are collected ,in Wheaton

SUPREME COURT.
Commonocalth qKf

y. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

on the Law of Nations, 171; Fo lix, 312; and Martin, Vergb's
edition, 182. And the English Government, from which we
have borrowed our general system of law and jurisprudence,
has always refuised to deliver up political offenders who had
sought an asylum within its dominions. And as .the States
of this Union, althiongh united as one nation for certain specified purposes, are yet, so far as coil'erns their internal goverinnent, separate sovereignties, independent of each other;. it
was obviously deemed necessary to show, by the terms used,
that this compact was not to be regarded or construed as an
ordinary treaty Fbr extradition between nations altogether independent of each other, but was intended to embrace political offences against the sovereignty of the State, as well as
all other crimes. And as treason was also a "felony," (4 BI.
Com., 94,) it was necessary.to insert those words, to show, in
language that couild not be mistaken, that political offenders
were included in it. For this was not a compact of peace
and comity between separate nations who had no claim on
each other for mutual support, but a compact binding them
to give aid and assistance to each other in executing their
laws, and to support each-other in preserving order and law
within its confines, whenever such aid was needed and required; for it is manifest that the statesmen who framed the
Constitution were fully sensible, that from the complex character of the Government, it must fhil unless the States mutually supported each other and the General Government; and
that nothing would be more likely to disturb its peace, and
end in discord, than permitting an offender against the laws
of a State, by passing over a mathematical line which divides
it from another, to defy its process, and stand ready, unde: the
protection of the State, to repeat the offence as soon as another
opportunity offered.
Indeed, the necessity of this policy of mutual support, in
bringing offenders to justice, withont any exception as to the
character and nature of the crime, seems to have been first
recognised and acted on by the American colonies; for we
find, by Winthrop's History of Massachusetts, vol. 2, pages
121 and 126, that as c"rly as 1643, by "articles of Confbdera.

D)ECEMIER TERAM, 1860.

10]

Comnmonweallt of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

tion between the plantations under the Government of Mas
sachusetts, the plantation under the Government of New Ply.
mouth, the plantations unider the Government of Connecticut,
and the Government of New Haven, with the plantations in
combination therewith," these plantatibns pledged themselves
to each other, that, epon the escape of any prisoner or fugitive for any criminaT cause, whetler by breaking prison, or
getting from the officer, or otherwise escaping, upon the certificate of two magistrates of the jurisdiction out of which
the escape was made thaf he was a prisoner orsuch an offender
at the time of the escape, the m'agistrate, or some of them, of
the jurisdiction where, for the present, the said prisoner or
fugitive abideth, shall forthwith grant such a warrant as the
case will beat', for the appreliending of any such person, and
the delivery ofihini into the hands of the officer or other person who pursueth him; and if there be help required for the
safb retufning of any such offender, then it shall be granted
unto him that craves the same, he paying the charges thereof."
It will be seen that this agreement gave no discretion to the
magistrate of the Government where the offender was found;
but he was hound to arrest and deliver, upon'the production
of the certificate under which he was demanded. -When the thirteen colonies formed a Confederation for mutual support, a similar provision was introduced, most probably suggested by the advantages which the plantations had derived. fiom their compact with one another. But, as these colonies had then, by the Declaration of Independence, become
separate and independent sovereignties, against which treason
might be committed, their compact is 2arefully worded, so as
to include treason and felony-that is, political cffences-as
well as crimes of an iuferior grade. It is in the following
words:
"If any person, guilty of or charged with treason, felony, or
other high.misdemeanor, iii any State, shall flee from justice,
and be found n ,iny other.of the United States, he shall, upon
demand of the Governor or Exccn tive power of the State from
which he fled, be delivered up and removed to the State hay.
iiljurisdictioi of his offence."

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

And when these colonies were about to form a still closer
union by the present Constitution, but yet preserving their
sovereignty, they had learned from experience the necessity
of this provision for the internal safety of each-of them, and to
promote concord and harmony among all their members; and
it is introduced in the Constitution substantially in the same
words, but substituting the word "crime" for the words
"high misdemeanor," and thereby showing the deliberate
purpose to include every offence known to the law of the
State from which-the party charged had fled.
The argument on behalf of the Governor of Ohio, which
insists upon excluding from this clause new offences created
by a statute of the State, and growing out of its local institutions, and which are not admitted to be offences in the State
where tie fugitive is found, tor so regarded by the general
usage of civilized nations, would render the clause useless for
any practical purpose. For where can the line of division be
drawn with anything like certainty? Who is to mark it?
The Governor of the demanding State would probably draw
one line, and the Governor of the other State another. And,
if they differed, who is to decide between them? Under such
a vague and indefinite construction, the article would not be
a bond of peace and union, but a constant source of controversy and irritating discussion. It would liave been far better to omit it altogether, and to have left it to the comity of
the States, and their own sense of their respective interesfs,
than to have inserted it as conferring a right, and yet defining
that right so loosely as to-make it a never-failing subject of
dispute and ill-will.
The clause in question, like the clause in the Confederation,
authorized the demand to be inade by the Executive authority
of the State where.the crime was committed, but does not in
so ruany words specify th officer of the State upon whom the
demand is to be made, and whose duty it. is to have the fugitive delivered and removed to the State having jurisdiction of
the crime. But, under the Confederation, it is plain that the
demand was to be made on the Governor or Executive authority of the State, anl could l)e nmide on no other depart

DECEMBIMP TERM, 1860.

[03

Comnaronwealt. of Ky]. r. Dennison, Govenr, &c.

"ment or officer; for the Confederation wag only a league of
separate soveieignties, in which each Stite, within its own
limits, held -ard exereised all the powers of sovereignty;and
the Confederation had no officer, either executive, judicial, or
ministerial, througth whom it could exercise an authority within the linjits of a State. In the-present Constitution, however, these powers, to a limited extent, have been conferred
on the; General Government within the- territories of tlfe
several States. But the part of the clause in relation to the
mode of demanding and. surrenderinig the fugitive is, (w'itl
the exception of"an unimportant word or two,) a literal copy
of the article of the Confederation, and it is plain that the
.mode of the demand and the oflicial authority by and to
whom it was addressed, under the Confederation, must have
been in the minds of the members of the Conention when
this article was introduced, and that, in adopting the same
words, they -manifestly intended to sanction the mode of proceeding practiced under the Confederation-that is, of demanding the figitive from the Executive authority, and
malking it his duty to cause him to be delivered up.
Looking, thereford, to the words of the Constitution-to the
obvious policy ' and necessity of this provision to' preserve
harmony bietwieen States, and -order and, law within their
respective borders, and. to its early adoption by the colonies,
and then by the Confederated States, whose mutual interest it
was to give each other aid and support whenever it was needed-the condlusion is irresistible, that this compact engrafted
in-the Constitution included, and was intended to include, every
offence made punishable by the law of the State in which it
was committed, and that it gives the right to the Executive
authority of the State to depland the fugitive from the Executive authority -of the State in which he is found; that the
right given to "demand" implies that itis an absolute right#
and it follows that there must be .a correlative obligation
to deliver, without any refercice to the character of the
crim'e. charged, or to the policy or laws of the State to
which the fugitive has fled.
Tliis is evidently the construction put upon this article in

SUPflEME COURT.
Commonwealth of Z.

v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

the act of Congress of 1793, under which the proceedings now
before us are instituted. It is therefore the construction put
upon it almost cotemporaneously with the commencement of
the Government itself, and when Washington was still at its
head, and many of those who had assisted in framing it were
members of the Congress which enacted the law.
The Constitution having established the right on one part
and the obligation on the other, it became necessary to provide by law the mode of carrying it into execution. The Governor of the State could not, upon a charge made before him,
demand the fugitive; for, according to the principles upon
which all of our institutions are foundbd, the Executive Department can act only in subordination to the Judicial Department, where rights of person or property are concerned, and
its duty in those cases consists only in aiding to support the
judicial process and enforcing its authority, when its interposition for that purpose becomes necessary, and is called for by
the Judicial Department. The Executive authority of the
State, therefore, was not authorized by this article to make
the demand unless the party was charged in the regular course
of judicial proceedings. And it was equally necessary that
the Executive authority of the State upon which the demand
was made, when called on to render his aid, should be satisfied
by competent proof that the party was so charged. This proceeding, when duly authenticated, is his authority for arresting
the offender.
This duty of providing bylaw the regulations necessary to
carry this compact into execution, from the nature of the duty
and the object in view, was manifestly devolved upon Congress; for if it was left to the States, each State might require
different proof to authenticate the judicial proceeding upon
which the demand was founded; and as the duty of the Governor of the State where the fugitive was found is, in such
cases, merely ministerial, without tile right to exercise either
executive or judicial discretion, he could not lawfully issue a
warrant to arrest an individual without a law of the State or
of Congress to authorize it. These difficulties presented them.
selves a4 early as 1791, in a demand nm:de by the Governoi

DECEMBEIR TERM, 1860.

105

(oAomnonweath of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

of Pennsylvania upon the Governor of Virginia, and both of
them admitted the propriety of bringing the subject before
the President, who immediately submitted the matter to the
consideration of Congress. And this led to the act of 1793,
of which we are noNv speaking. All difficulty as to the mode
of authenticating the judicial proceeding was removed by the
article in the Constitution, which declares, "that full faith and
credit shall be given in each State to the public acts, records,
and judicial proceedings, of every other State; and the Congress may by general laws prescribe the manner in which
acts, records, and proceedings, shall be proved, and the effect
thereof." And without doubt the provision of which we are
now speaking-that is, for the delivery of a fugitive, which
requires official communications between States, and the authentication of official documets-was in the rhinds of the
framers of the Constitution, and had its influence in inducing
them to give this power to Congress. And acting upon this
authority, and, the clause of the Constitution which is the
subject of the present controversy, Congress passed the act of
1793, February 12th, which, as far as relates to this subject, is
in the following words:
"Section 1. That whenever the Executive authority of any
State in .tbe Union, or of either of the Territories northwest
or south of the river Ohio, slall demand any person as a fugitive from justice of the Executive authority of any such State
or Territory to which such person shall have fled, and- shall,
moreover, produce the copy of an indictment found, or an affidavit made before a magistrate of any State or Territory as
aforesaid, charging the person so demanded with having committed treason, felony, or other crime, certified as authentic
by the Governor or chief Magistrate of the State or Territory
fr6m whence the person so charged fled, it shall be the duty
of the Executive authority of the State or Territory to which
such person shall have fled to cause him or her to be arrested
and secured,. and notice of the arrest to be given to the Executive authority making such demand, or to the agent of such
authority appointed to receive the fugitive, and to cause the
fugitive to be delivered to such agenttwien he shall appear;

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth f .Ej. v. Dennison, Governor, ,t-c.

but if no such agent shall appear within six months from the
time of the arrest, the prisoner may be discharged. And all
co-'.s or expenses incurred in the apprehending, securing, and
transmitting such fugitive to the State or Territory making
such demand shall be paid by such State or Territory.
"Section 2. And be it further enacted, That any agent, appohnted as aforesaid, who shall receive the fugitive into his
custody, shall be empowered to transport him or her to the
State or Territory from which he or she shall have fled; and
if any person or persons shall by force set at liberty or rescue
the fugitive from such agent while transporting as aforesaid,
the person or persons so offending slfal, on conviction, be
fined not exceeding five hundred dollars, and be imprisoned
not exceeding one year."
It will be observed, that the judicial acts which are necessary
to authorize the demand are plainly specified in the act of Congress; and the certificate of the Executive authoity is made
conclusive as to their verity whien presented to the Executive
of the State wher6 the fugitive is found. He has no right to
look behind them, or to question them, or to look into '.he character of the crime specified in this judicial proce~dng. The
duty which he is to perfoin is, as we have already said, merely
rninisterial--that is, to cause the party to be arrested, and delivered to the agent or authority of the State where the crime
was committed. 'It is said in tih" argument, that the Executive officer upon whom this demand is made must have a discretionary executive power, because he must inquire and decide who is the person demanded. But this certainly is not a
discretionary duty upon which he is to exercise anyjudgmeut;
but is a mere ministerial duty-that is, to do the act required
to be done by him, and such as every marshal and sheriff
must perform when process, either criminal or civil, is placed
in his 'hands to be served on the person named in it. And it
never has been supposed that this duty involved any discretionary power, or made him anything more than a mere ministerial officer; and such is the position and character of the
txecufive of the State under this law, when the demand is
made upon him and the r:quisite evidence produced. The

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

Governor has only to issue his warrant to'an agent or officer
to arrest tihe party named in the demand.
The question which remains to be examined is a grave and
important one. When the demand was made, the proofs required by the act 6f 1793 to support it were exhibited to the
Governor of Ohio, duly certified and authenticated; and the
objection made to the validity of the indictment is altogether
iuntenable. Kentucky has an undoubted right to regulate the
forms of pleading and process in her own courts, in criminal
as well as civil cases, and is not bound to conform to those of
any other State. And whether the charge against Lago is
legally and sufficiently laid in this indictment according to
the laws of Kentucky, is a judicial question to be decided by
the courts of the State, and not by the Executive authority of
the State of Ohio.
The demand being thus made,.the act of Congress declares,
that, "it shall be the duty of the Executive authority of the
State" to cause the fugitive to be arrested and secured, and
delivered to the agent of the demanding State. The words,
"it shall be the duty," in ordinary legislation, imply the
assertion of the power to command and to coerce obedience.
But looking to the subject-matter of this law, and the relations which the United States and the several States bear to
each other, the court is of opinion, the words "it shall be the
duty" were not used as mandatory and compulsory, but as
declaratory of the moral duty which this compact created,
when Congress had provided the mode of carrying it into execution. The act does not provide any means to compel the
execution of this duty, nor inflict any punishment for neglect
-or, refusal on the part of the Executive of the State; nor is
there any clause or provision in the Oonstitution whicharms
the' Government of the United States with this power. Indeed, such a power would place every State under the control
and-domiioii of the General Government, even in the administration of its internal concerns and reserved rights. And we
think it clear, that the Federal Government, under the Constitution, has no power, to impose on a State officer, as such,
an, duty whatever, .and colnpej imi to perform it; for, if it

SUPREME COURT.
Commonwealth of Ky. v. Dennison, Governor, &c.

possessed this power, it might overload the officer with duties
which would fill up all his time, and disable him from per
forming his obligations to the State, and might impose or
him duties of a character incompatible with the rank and dig.
nity to which he was elevated by the State.
It is true that Congress may authorize a particular State officer to perform a particular duty; but if he declines to do so,
it does not follow that he may be coerced, or punished for his
refusal. And we are very far from supposing, that in using
this word "duty," the statesmen who framed and passed the
law, or the President who approved and signed it, intended
to exercise a coercive power over State -fficers not warranted
by the Constitution. But the General Govern'ment having in
that law fulfilled the duty devolved upon it, by prescribing
the proof and mode of authentication upon which the State
authorities were bound to deliver the fugitive, the word
"duty" in the law points to the obligation on the State to
carry it into execution.
It is true that in the early days of the Government, Congress relied with confidence upon the co-operation and support of the States, when exercising the legitimate powers of
the General Governument, and were accustomed to receive it,
upon principles of comity, and from a sense of mutual and
common interest, where no such duty was imposed by the
Constitution. And laws were passed authorizing State courts
to entertain jurisdiction in proceedings by the United States
to recover penalties and forfeitures incurred by breaches of
their revenue laws, and giving to the State courts the same
authority with the District Court of the United States to enforce such penalties and forfeitures, and also the power to hear
the allegations of pirties, and to take proofs, if an application
rot a remission of the penalty or forfeiture should be made,
according to the provisions of the acts of Congress. And
these powers were for soine years exe'cised by State tribunals,
readily, and without objection, until in some of the States it
was declined because it interfered with and retarded the per
formance of duties which properly belonged to them, as State
courts; and in other States, doubts appeal to have arisen as

DECEM1BER TERM, 18o.

109

Commonwealth of Ky. v. Deudison, Oooeruor, d'c.

to the power of the courts, acting under the authority of the
State, to inflict these penalties and forfeitures for offences
against the General Government, unless especially authorized
to do so by the State.
And in these casds the co-operation of the States was a matter of comity, which the several sovereignties extended to one
another for their mutual benefit. It was not regarded by
either party as an obligation imposed by the Constitution.
And the acts of Congress conferring the jurisdiction merely
give the power to the State tribunals, but dQ not purport to
regard it as a duty, and they leave iito the States to exercise
it or not, as might best comport with their own sense of justice, and their own interest and convenience.
But the language of the act of 1793 is very different. It
does not purport to give authority to the State Executive to
arrest and deliver the fugitive, but requires it to be done, and
the language of the law implies an absolute obligation which
the State authority is bound to perform. And when it speaks
of the duty of the Governor, it evidently points to the duty
imposed by the Constitution. in the clause we are now considering. The performance of this duty, however, is left to
depend on the fidelity of the State Executive to the compact
entered into with the other States when it adopted the Constitution of the United States, and became a member Qf the
Union. It was so left by the Constitution, and necessarily so
left by the act of 1793.
And it would seem that when the Constitution was framed,
and when this law was.pasied it was confidently believed that
a sense of justice and of mutual interest would insure a faithful execution of this constitutional provision by the Executive
of every State, for every State had an equal interest in the
execution of a compact absolutely essential to their peace and
well being in their internal concerns, as well as members of
the Union. Hence, the use of the words ordinarily employed
when an undoubted obligation is required to be performed,
"it shall be his duty."
But if the Governor of Ohio refuses to discharge this. duty.
there is no power delegated to the General Government, either

SUPREME COURT.
Sturgis v. Boyer et al.

through the Judicial Department or any other department, to
use any coercive means to compel him.
And upon this ground the motion for the mandamus must
be overruled.

RUSSELL STURGIS, OLAIMANT OF THE STEAM-TUG HECTOR, HER
'TACKLE, &C., IMPLEADED WITH THE SHIP WISCONSIN, HER
TACKLE, &c., APPELLANTS, V. HERMAN BOYER, ALBERT WOODRUFF, AND JEREMIAH

R.

IROBINSON, OWNERS OF THE LIGHTER

REPUBLIC, LIBELLANTS.

In-a collision which took place in the harbor of New York, between a ship which
was towed along by a steam tug. to which she was lashed, and a lighter loaded
with flour, by which -the latter vessel was capsized, the evidence shows that
she was not in fault, and is entitled to damages. Neither the ship nor the
tug had a proper look-out, and being propelled by steam they could have governed their course, which the lighter could not.
Bdth the tug and tow were under the command of the master of the tug, who
gave all the orders. None of the ship's crew were on board except the mate,
who did not interfere with the management of the vessel, the persons on board
being all under the conmmand of a head stevedore. The tug must therefore be
responsible fbr the whole loss incurred.
rhe vessel must be responsible because her owners appoint the bfficers, and the
master of-the tug was their agent, and not the agent of the owners of the ship,
who had made a contract with him to remove the ship to her new position.
Some of the cases examined as to the distinction between principal and agent.
Cases arise when both the tow and the tug are jointly liable for the consequences
of a collisin i as whnfi those in charge of the respective vessels jointly participate in their control and management, and the master or crew of both vessels
are either deficient in skill, omit to take due care, or are guilty of negligence
in their navigation.
Other cases may.be supposed when the tow alone would be responsible; as when
the tug is employed by the master or owners of the tow as the mere motive
power to propel their vessels from one point to another, and both vessels are
exclusively under the control, direction, and management, of the master and
crew of the tow.
But whenever the tug, under the charge of her own master and crew. and in the
usual and. ordinary course of such an employment, undertakes to transport
antther vessel, which, for the time being, has neither her master nor crew on
board, from one point to another, over waters where such accessory motive
power is necessary, or usually employed, she must be held responsible for the
proper navigation of both vessels.

