DECEM-BER TERK, 1860.
Eberly et al. v. Moore et al.

Papin, the plaintiff below, took from the representatives of
Willette a quit-claim conveyance for the land for which he
sues on the 23d September, 1854-more than thirty years after
the passage of the act of the 3d -arch, 1823-mbre than
twenty years after the Fultons had made their entry upon the
quarter section-eighteen years after they received their patent
for it from the United States-seventeen after Hall had the
land in possession by purchase from the Fultons, and ten
years after the patent of confirmation to the representatives
of Willette had been recorded in the General Land Office.
Under these circumstances, Papin took a conveyance, which
gave him no right to the land. When the plaintiff in error,
Hall, asked the court to instruct the jury, that if they believed
from the evidence that, by the plaintiff's recovery in this case,
the legal representatives of Francis Willette will have been
confirmed in more than ten aciws of Peoria French claims,
they were to find for the defendant, the prayer ought to have
been apprehended by the court, according to its°relation to the
subject-matter in controversy, and such an instruction should
have been given accordingly to the jury. The refusal, then,
was error.

For the reasons given, we shall direct the judgmnent of the
court below to be reversed; that a venirefacias de novo shall be
issued; and that the court, in its further proceedings in the
cause thereon, conform to the rulings of this opinion.

ANGELINA IR. EBERLY AND PEYTON LYTLE, BY HIS NEXT FRIEND,

A. B.

EBERLY, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. LEWIS MOORE AND

CHARLES RAYLON.

After'the defendants had put in a plea in bar, they moved the court for leave to
withdraw the plea, and to plead in abatement that the plaintiffs had alleged
themselves to be citizens of another State, but were in reality the citizens of
the same State with themselves, in consequence of which the District Court
of the United States had not jurisdiction of the case.
rhe court allowed the motion and the plea in abatement to be filid. Being
satisfied by the verdict oena jury that the allegation of the plea was true, the
petition of the plaintiffs was dismissed.

148

SUPREME COURT.
Eberly et al. v. .Atoo,'e d al.

In this the District Court was right. The jurisdiction has been conferred by
acts of Congress upon the courts of the United States so to supervise the various steps in a cause as to prevent hardship and injustice, and that the merits
of a cause may be fairly tried.
That the plea was not artistically drawn is not a sufficient reason for reversing
the judgment of the court below.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the District
Court of the United States for the western district of Texas.
Angelina R. Eberly, and the minor, Peyton Lytle, brought
-an 'action of trespass to try title to-a tract of land situated in
Falls county, in the State of Texas. The suit was brought
against a number of persons, who adopted different modes of
defence. Moore and Raybon pleaded the general issue anacertain pleas of adverse possession in bar. At the succeeding
term of the court they presented a motion for leave to withdraw their answer, and plead in abatement, upon. the ground
that the plaintiffs, instead of being citizens of Kentucky, as
they had alleged, were in reality citizens of Texas, and consequently that the court had no jurisdiction over the case. The
motion was granted and the pleas in abatement filed. Other
proceedings took place which it is not necessary to state.
After the jury was impannelled, the court charged them as
follows:
GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY: To give the court jurisdiction of
this case, it is necessary that the plaintiffs should be non-residents, or citizens of the State of Texas. The petition alleges
that two of the plaintiffs, viz: Mrs. Eberly and Peyton Lytle,
are citizens of the State of Kentucky. This allegation is denied by the plea in abatement, which avers them to be citizens
of the State of Texas. Upon this issue arises the question of
fact which you are to determine.
When a domicil or citizenship is once acquired in a State,
a mere temporary removal will not affe~t it, and a citizenship
elsewhere will not be acquired without a corresponding removal, accompanied with a bona fide intent for that purpose.
This intent the jury must determine from all -the facts and
circumstances in evidence before them. The jury will simply
state in their verdict whether, from the proof before them in

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

149

Eberly et at. v. Moore et al.

this case, Mrs. Eberly, and her grandson, Peyton Lytle, or
either of them, were citizens of the States of KeMtucky or
Texas on the 4th NTovember, 1855.
T. H. DUVAL,
U. S. Dist. Judge.
The defendants ask the court to charge, that if Texas was
the natural domicil of Peyton Lytle, that is, the domicil of
his birth, and if it remained so until the death of his- parents,
then it was not in the power of the grandmother to change
his domicil by parrying him to'Kentucky, and thus to confer
upon him that citizenship which Would give this court jurisJ-1O. A. & R. GREEN,
diction.
For Def'ts.
The-above instruction is given.
T. H. DUVAL,
U. S. Dist. Judge.
And the jury having heard the evidence, dnd .argument of
counsel, and the 6harge of the court,, retired, and returned into court with the following verdict, which is in words, to wit:
"We, the jury, find, from the law and the evidence, that the
domicil or residence of the plaintiffs in this case, Afigelina
R. Eberly, and her grandson, Peyton Lytle, never has been
changed from the State of Texas, and that their domicil or
residence was in the State of Texas at the commencement of
this suit."
The counsel for the plaintiffs took an exception to the judgment of the court, granting permission to the defendants to
withdraw their plea first filed and file one in abatement; and
afterwards moved the court for judgment by default to be entered against the defendants, for want of a defence or answer;
which motion being overruled by the court, the plaintiffs excepted. The jury then found that the residence of the plaintiffs was in Texas, and the court dismissed the suit.
The case was argued by Mr. Hale for the plaintiffs in error,
and submitted on a printed argument by Mr. Ballinger for the
,letendant.

150

SUPREME COURT.
Eberly el al. v. loore et al.

That part only of the argument of Mr. Hale which related
to. the power of the court to grant leave to the defendant to
withdraw their first plea and plead in abatement can be inserted.
Ordinary questions of amendment are intrusted to the discretion of the inferior courts, and are not revisable here; but
ina case of this .character, the courts of law have no discretion. The 32nd section of the act of 1789, (1 Stat. at L., 91,;
applies, in its first clause, to the correction of formal defects or
errors by a reference to other parts of the record; and in its
last and more general clause, to an amendment of "any defect
id|
the process or pleadings." It is obVious that this statute
grants only the power of correcting an error occurring in the
body of a pleading, and is not to be understood as authorizing
the cancellation or withdrawal of the pleading itself. In the
latter case there would be no "defect" to be supplied, as there
would be nothing left in which to supply it. The power,
then, to allow the withdrawal of an entire plea and the substitution of another, must be derived, if at all, from the common
law, or the general and necessary authority of a court in ordinationem litis. But this general authority cannot extend to the
case of amendments, because then there would have.been no
need of the enabling statutes. And at common law, the
courts had at first no power of admitting amendments after
the term.
Bac. Ab. Amendment, A.
Blackmore's case, 6 Co. R., 157.
Com. Dig. Prerogative, D., 85.
Nelson v. Barker, 3 McLean, 379.
Afterwards their power was considered to continue as long
as tle cause was "in paper."
Tidd's Pract., 697.
Bondfield v. Milner, 2 Burr,, 1099.
The expression "in paper" appears to be strictly applied to
the condition of a cause before the impannelling of a jury;
but the decisions are conflicting as to the power of granting
an amlendmnent in a material point, (except to correct a van-

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

-151'

Eberlya .v. Moore etal.

ance,) after issue is taken. It is clear that an omission cannot, in the English courts, be supplied after that time.
Bye v. Bower, Carr and M., 262.
John v. Currie, 6 Carr and P., 618.
Brashear v. Jackson, 6 Mees. and W., 549.
Webb v. Hill, Mood and M.,-253.
But there have been instances where a demurrer or replication was allowed tb be withdrawn and a new pleading substituted. In these cases,. however it is to be noticed that the
object has been to speed the cause. There is no precedent for
the withdrawal of a plea in bar, to admit either a demurrer or
a plea in abatement. On the contrary, it is well settled ' thata plea, introduced by amendment, must be to the merits of
the case.
Law v. Law, Str., 960.
Perkins v. Burbank, 2 Mass., 73.
Eaton v. Whittaker, 6 Pick., 465.
Beach v. Fulton Bank, 3 Wend., 573, 576.
Waples v. McGee, 2 Harring, 444.
See, also, D'Wolf v. Rabaud, 1 Pet., 585.
Ripley v. Warren, 2 Pick., 592, 594-596.
Palmer v. Everson, 2 Cow., 417.
Engle v. Nelson, I Penns., 442.
There seem to be two rules on this subject; first, that an
amendment will not, in general, be allowed, unless there is
something in the" record by which or on which to amend; and
second, in the rare cases in which an entire new plea is permitted, it must be of a character subsequent in the natural
order of pleading to the one withdrawn.
Judicial discretion can. bnly be exercised where neither party
has a legal right. When rights are -involved, discretion ends,
and any decision becomes the subject of appellate revision.
In the present case, the defendants in error, by pleading in
bar at a former term, had admitted the jurisdiction of the
court and waived any objection to it.
Co. Litt., 303.
Com. Dig. Abatement, D., 9, -5.
Mostyn v. Fabrigas, Cowp., 161.

SUPREME COURT.
Eberlyet al. v. Moore el aL

Bailey v. Dozier, 6 How., 23, 80.
Sheppard v. Graves; 14 How., 505, 509.
Whyte v. Gibbes et al., 20 How., 579, 585.
Martin v. Commouw., 1 Mass., 347.
Ripley v. Warren, 2 Pick., 592, 594.
Coffin v. Jones, 5 Pick., 61.
Ludlow v. Simond, 2 Caines Ca., 40.
Wood v. Mann, 1 Sumn., 578.'
Hinckley v. Smith, 4 Watts, 433.
Chamberlain v. Hite, 5 Watts, 373.
Andrit is so expressly decided in Texas, Hart. Dig., art.
688, 691.
Drake v. Brander, 8 Texas, 351.
Cook v.Southwick, 9 Tex., 615.
Ryan v. Jackson, 11 Tex., 391, 400.
Wilson v. Adams, 15 Tex., 323.
Compton v. Westerm Stage Co., Mss. opinion.
This waiver on the part of the Ulefendants enures to the
-plaintiffs, and when acted on by them, in-the ffrther prosecution of the suit, gives them a right to in-sist on it as conclusive. Thus Lord Eldon said, in Iveson v. Harris, 7 Vesey,
254, "the objection to the jurisdiction may have been waived
by the defendant himself-that is, he may have pleaded so that
it is incompetent to him to stay the proceeding afterwards."
And this ie further illustrated by the remarks of the Vice
Chancellor, in Chichester v. Donegal, 6 Madd., 375. "I state,"
he sgys, "without exception, as a general principle, that in
courts of equity, as well as courts of law, a party admitting a
fact which gives jurisdiction to a court, and appearing, and
submittifg to that jurisdiction, on general principles and upon
all the analogies kirown to us, can never recede, or as it is
called in the Scoth law, resile, from these 'facts and withdraw
that admission."
See, also, Smith v. Elder, 3 Johns. R., 113.
Cases are not wanting, also, in which the power of a court
to permit a plea to the jurisdiction, after such a constructive
-admission, has been expressly denied. Thus qn Martin v.
Commouw., I Mass., 353-60, the Attorney General asked

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

.153

Eberly et al. v. Aoore et al.

leave to plead in abatement after an imparlance in error; and
objection being made by Parsons, counsel for plaintiff in error,
the court unanimously refused to permit it, because the plea
in abatement was offered after a plea- in bar bad been filed,
which admitted the capacity of the plaintiff in error. In a
similar case in New York, where it was shown that the general issue had been pleaded without the knowlelge of the defendant, the court still refused to allow it to be withdrawn to
let in a plea of coverture.
Anonymous, 3 Caines R., 102.
So permission to plead in abatement will be refused, after
imparlance, though the prayer for imparlance was by mistake
or through ignorance.
2 Rol., 244.
Com. Dig. Abatement, D., 9, 2.
The subject is elaborately discussed in Wood v. Mann, I
Sumn., 578. And the principle is substantially affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Texas in Coles v. Perry, T Texas, 109,
141.
That part only of Mr. Ballinyer's argument which relates to
the general rules of pleading can be given, omitting the references to the Texas decisions.
II. The court below had the right to permit the answer to
the merits to be withdrawn and abandoned, and a plea to the
jurisdiction' filed; and this court will not revise the discretion
which was exercised.
The general rule requiring a plea to the jurisdiction to precede a plea to the merits, or otherwise waiving the former,
is of course fiamiliar. Its reason is thus explained by Judge
Story: "All pleas to the jurisdiction are objections to entering into the lils contcstatio, and they must and ought therefore
to precede the litis contestti,. When the party submits the
merits of the case to be heard by the court on the pleadings
and testimony, he admits that the court has jurisdiction for
that purpose."
2 Sumner, 585; 11 Pet., 393; 14 Ho w., 509.
But the question is, wlhether, if a party once pleads to the

1/54

SUPREME COURT.
Eberly e al. v. Mfoore et aL

merits, he forever forfeits all right to ask, and the court itself
loses all power to permit, upon any ground whatever, such
plea to be withdrawn, apo an issue p'esented to the jurisdiction of the court. If he is led to make such plea through
fraud and misrepresentation practiced upon him, or through
accident or mistake, not culpable on his part, and it appears
not to have prejudiced the plaintiff in any degree, but to be
only an unconscionable advantage in his favor, is the mouth
of the defendanit'forever closed, and is he placed beyond the
pale of any relief? "Fraud vitiates the most solemn proceedings of courts ofjustice."
Duchess of Kingston.'s Case.
Accident, surprise, and mistake, are grounds of relief in all
the transactions of life. Can it be possible that rules of pleading, fashioned by the courts for their own convenience in the
.administration of justice, are the only exception to the power
of courts to grant relief from unconscionable advantages obtained by either of these means? "If courts could not, in:
cases of accident or necessity, with a view to reach the truth,
give relief or indulgence on making the other party indemnity
for the delay, bur rules would be worse than any principles of
law in common cases, which are often relieved against in
equity, and sometimes at law, in the event of accident and
mistake."
See Wallace v. Clark, (3 Woodb. and AL, 359,) a case
standing on veiy analagous ground.
The Constitution of the United States provides that "the judicial power shall extend to all cases in law and equity, arising,"
&c. By "cases in law" was meant suits in which legal rights
are to be determined, in contradistinction to rights cognizable
in equity or admiralty.
Parsons v. Bedford, 3 Pet., 44.
Bennett v. Butterworth, 11 How., 647-5.
There is no common law of the United States regulating
principles of p.eading and practice at law, or upon any other
subject, (Wheaton v. Peters, 8 Pet., 658;) nor do the laws of
a State have any such effe6t, proprio vigore.
9 Pet., 329; 2 Curt. C. C., 94.

DECEM-BER TERM, 1860.

155

Ebeily et al. v. .Mooreet al.

The Supreme Court of the United States has the power. to
prescribe rules of pleading and practice, in suits at common
law, for the District and Circuit Courts, (act Aug. 23, 1842,
sec. 6, 5 Stats., 517;) but it is a power which has never been
exercised. The District Court in Texa6 has also the power
to regulate its practice, "as shall be fit and neceSsary -for the
advancement of justice," &c., (act March 2, 1793, sec. 7', A
Stats., 385;) and in the entire want of all other rules, it adopt-

cd its own rules of pleading and practice, conforming them to
the practice of the State cpurts, so far as Consistent with the
laws of Congress and the distinctive'organization of a court
of law. One of the few provisions, by act of Congress, touching the pleadings in the courts of the United State, is, .that
those courts may at any time permit either of the parties to
amend any dqfect in the process or pleadings upon such, conditions as the said courts respectively shall in their discretion
and by their rules prescribe.
32d sec. Judiciary Act, 1789, i Stats., 91.
By the law governing the State practice, "the pleadings
in all suits may be amended under the direction of the court,
upon such terms as it may prescribe, at any time before the
parties announce themselves ready for trial, and not thereafter."
0. & W. Dig., art. 434.
These express provisions of law intrust the amplest discretion to allowr amendments of the "pleadings," and the
largest measure of such discretion and control also results
from the organization of the court. The exercise of that discretion cannot, upon well settled principles, be revised by this
court. In Marine Ins. Co. v. Hodgson, 6 Crunch, 206, the
defendant having filed six special pleas, was refused leave to
file two others. The court say:
"T his court does not think that the-refusal of an inferior
court to receive an additional plea or to amend one already
filed can ever be assigned for error. This depends so much
on the discretion of the court,vhich must be regulated more
by the particular circumstances of every case than by any
precise and known rule of law, and of which the superior

156

SUPREME COURT.
Eberly et al. v. Moore et al.

c6urt can never become fully possessed, that there would be
more danger of injury in revising matters of this kind than
what might resfflt now and then from an arbitrary or improper exercise of this discretion. It may be very hard not
to grant a new trial or not to continue a cause; but in neither
case can the party be relieved by writ of error, nor is the
court apprised that a refusal to amend, or to add a plea, was
ever made the subject of complaint in this way. The court,
therefore, does not feel itself obliged to give any opinion on
the conduct of the inferior court in refusing to receive these
pleas. At the same time, it has no difficulty in saying that
even in that stage of the proceedings, the Circuit Court might,
if it had thought proper, have received these additional pleas,
or admitted of any amendment in those already filed." (Pp.
48, 219.)
"The allowance or disallowance of amendments is not matter for which a writ of error lies here,"
Chirac v. Reinecker, 11 Wheat., 280.
Walden v. Craig, 9 Wheat., 573.
Wright v. :Hollingsworth, 1 Pet., 165.
United States v. Buford, 3 Id., 31.
Clapp r. Balch, 3 G~reenl., 219.
Morgan & Smith v. Dyer, 10 Johns., 163.
Korthum v. Kellogg, 15 Conn., 574.
Toby v. Claflin, 3 Sum., 380.
Calloway v. Dobson, 1 Brock, 119.
The precise question of permitting a plea to the jurisdiction
after general answer to the merits Was. decided by Judge
Story, in Dodge v. Perkins, 4 Mason, 435, in which suit was
brought against a citizen of Massachusetts by an administrator, alleging citizenship of his intestate in New York. There
was an answer to the merits, also denying the averment of
citizenship. Judge" Story held that the citizenship of the
administrator must be averred, and granted leave therefor.
After deciding that the question of citizenship was preliminary, and to be made by plea, and not by. answer, he says:
"In this case, I should feel it my duty to give the defendant
a right to withdraw his answer and put in a plea, if the pos

DECEMBER TERM, 1860.

1.57

Eberly et al. v. Moore et al.

ture of the cause hereafter should render that course desirable
to him." (P. 437; and see 1 Sum., 579.)
The general rule is thus recognised in Pennsylvania by Ch.
J. Tilghman: "The pleadings are always under the control
of the court. Pleas in abatement ought not to be put in after
pleas in bar, unless under special circumstances, of which the
court7 will judge."
Riddle et al. v. Stevenis, 2 Serg. and R., 544.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opiniori of the court.
The plaintiffs, as citizens of Kentucky, commenced a suit by
petition against the defendants, as citizens of Texas, for the
recovery of a parcel of land in their possession. At the return
of the process the defendants pleaded to the petition the general issue, and the statute of limitations, in bar of the suit.
At the next succeeding term they moved the court, upon
an affidavit charging that the allegationin the petition, "that
the' plaintiffs w~r6 citizefis -of Kentucky, was untrue, and
fraudulently made to induce the court to take cognizance of
the tause," and that they were bitizen :of Texas, for lave to
withdraw their pleas, and to plead this mater in abatement
of the suit. This motion was allowed, and pleas in abatement
were filed. One of these avers that the allegation of citizenship in said plaintiffs' petition is not true; that .said plaintiffs
are not citizens of Kentucky, but are respectively citizens of
Texas; wherefore he prays the dismissal of the cause for want
of jurisdiction. The plaintiffs thereupon moved the coirt for
judgment for the want of a plea. This-motion was not allowed, and thereupon the plaintiffs refused to reply to the
pleas in abatement, and the court then proceeded to impannel
a jury, and directed them to ascertain whether, from. the proof
before them, the plaintiffs, or either of them," were citizene nf
the -States of Kentucky or Texas at the date of the writ. The
jury returned as their verdict, that the domicil or residence
of the plaintiffs never had been changed from the State of
Texas, and that their domicil or residence wai' in the State of
Texas at the commencement of this suit. The court dismissed
their petition.

SUPREME COURT.
:Bberly et al. v. Afoore ef'al.

The plaintiffs object tx the authority of the District Court
to permit the withdrawal of pleas in bar, for the purpose of
pleading to the jurisdiction; that a plea in bar admits the
jurisdiction of the court, and the capacity of the plaintiffs to
sue, and that they cannot be deprived of the benefit of that
admission. The equitable jurisdiction of the courts of the
United States as courts of law is chiefly exercised in the
amendment of pleadings and proceedings in the court, and in
t].e supervision of all the various steps in a cause, so that the
rules and practice of the court shall be so administered and
enforced as to prevent hardship and injustice, and that the.
merits of the cause may be fairly tried. Such a jurisdiction is
essential to and is inherent in the organization of courts of
justice. Bartholomew v. Carter, 2 M. and G., 125.
But this jurisdiction has been conferred upon the courts of
the United States in a plenary form by acts of Congress. 1
Stat. at Large, p. 83, sec. 17; p. 335, sec. 7; p. 91, sec. 32.
It has been uniformly held in this court that a Circuit Court
could not be controlled in the exercise of the discretion thus
conceded to it. Spencer v. Lapsley, 20 How., 264. In the
present instance the jurisdiction was properly exercised. An
attempt was made, according to the affidavit on which the
motion was founded, to confer upon the District Court, by a
false and fraudulent averment, a jurisdiction to which it was
not entitled under the Constitution. If true, this was a gross
contempt of the court, for which all persons connected with it
might have been subject to its penal jurisdiction.
The plaintiffs contend that the plea. is a nullity, and that
"they were entitled to sign, judgment. It is not a precise, distinct, or a formal plea; but it denies the truth of the averment
of the citizenship of the plaintiffs, as they had affirmed it to
be in the petition. We may say as Lord Denman said, in
Homer v. Keppel, -10 A. and E., 17: "Where a plea is clearly
frivolous on the face of it, that is a good ground for setting it
aside; but the plea here is not quit- bad enough to warrant
that remedy."
Judgment affirmed.

