DECEMTBER TERM, 1860.
Sampson et a7. v. Welsh et at.

The judgment of the District Court is affirmed, with costs,

GEORGE R. SAMPSON AND LEWIS

W. TAPPAN, MERCHANTS DO1NG
& TAPPAN,

BUSINESS UNDER THE NAMES AND FIRim OF SAMPSON

CLAIMANTS OF THE SHIP SARAHI HER TACKLE, APPAREL, AND
FURNITURE, APPELLANTS, V. SAMUEL WELSH, JOHN WELSH,
AND WILLIAM WELSH, TRADING AS S. &"W. WELSH.

Upon a libel to recover damages against ship.'wners, a decree passed against
them for over $2,000, with-leave to set off a sum due them for freight, which
would reduce the amount decreed against them to less than-S2,000.. The
party elected to make the set off, saving his right to appeal-to this court.
The reduced decree was the final decree, and the party cannot save a right of
appal-where it is not allowed by act of Congress.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court, of the Uni-P
States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, sitting in admiralty.
It was a case of libel under the circumstances which are
stated in the opinion of -the court, and was submitted on
printed arguments by ,Mr. Wharton aid Mr. Kane for the
appellants, and Mr. Fallonand-Xr Serrill for the appellees.
The arguments of the counsel Were directed to the merits.
of the case, which it is not necessary to state iunder theciew
taken of it by the.court.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought up by an appeal from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
A libel was filed in the District Court for that district by S.
& W. Welsh, the appellees, against the ship Sarah, (of which
Sampson & Tappan,-the appellants, .are the owners,) to recover
compensation for damages- sustained by a cargo of coffee shipped on board the Sarah, at Rio, and consigned to the libellants; and also to recover compensation fo p.undry disburse-

SUPREME COURT.
Vigel v. Naylor.

ments made by the libellants fr.the payment of wages and
provisions for the ship.
The ship-owners appeared, and answered; but it is unnecessary to state more particularly the facts in controversy between the parties, because the final decree of the Circuit
Court was for less than two thousand dollars, and consequently no appeal from its decree will lie to this court.
At the hearing in the District Court the libel was dismissed; but upon an appeal to the Circuit Court this decision
was reversed, and a decree passed by the Circuit Court in
favor-of the libellants for thb sum of $2,302.78, with leave to
the respondents to set off the balance due them for freight, if
theyshould elect to do so. Afterwards, the respondents appeared in court, and elected to set off this balance against the
sum decreed against them, which reduced the amount to
$1,071.27. But in making this election, the proctors for the
"sDondents stated in writing, and filed in the court, that the
eiection to set off was made iVithout any waiver of their right
to appeal from the decree. After this election was made, the
court, on the 31st of August, 1858, passed its decree in favor
of the libellants for -theabove-mentioned sum of $1,071.27,
with interest from July 20, 1858. This was the final decree
of the court, and the one fiom which the.appeal is taken; and,
as it is beloJr $2,000, no appeal will lie under the act of Congress. And neither the reservation of the respondents in
nanking their election, nor even the consent of both parties, if
that had appeared, will give jurisdiction to this court where
it is not given by law'
The appeal must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

SUSAN V'IGEL, PLAINTIF

IN ERROR, V. HENRY NAYLOR, ADMINISTRATOR OF GEORGE NAYLOR, DECEASED. -

On a petition for freedom, the petitioner proved that one Kirby had emancipated
all his slaves by will some immediately and sofe at a future day.
The petitioner, -in order to bring herself within -this category and show that

