410

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

did not have any intention of placing more than one Negro
on the grand jury."
Clearer proof of intentional and deliberate limitation on
the basis of color would be difficult to produce. The commissioners' declarations that they did not intend to discriminate and their other inconsistent statements cited by
the Court fade into insignificance beside the admitted and
obvious fact that they intended to and did limit the number of Negroes on the jury panel. By limiting the number
to one they thereby excluded the possibility that two or
more Negroes might be among the persons qualified to
serve. All those except the one Negro were required to be
of white color. At the same time, by insisting upon one
Negro, they foreclosed the possibility of choosing sixteen
white men on the panel. They refused, in brief, to disregard the factor of color in selecting the jury personnel.
To that extent they have disregarded petitioner's right
to the equal protection of the laws. To that extent they
have ignored the ideals of the jury system. Our affirmance
of this judgment thus tarnishes the fact that we of this
nation are one people undivided in ability or freedom by
differences in race, color or creed.

BOWLES, PRICE ADMINISTRATOR, v. SEMINOLE
ROCK & SAND CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 914. Argued April 26, 27, 1945.-Decided June 4, 1945.
1. Under Rule (i) of § 1499.163 (a) (2) of Maximum Price Regulation
No. 188, issued by the Administrator of the Office of Price Administration under § 2 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act
of 1942, a seller's ceiling price for an article which was actually delivered during March 1942 is the highest price charged for the
article so delivered, regardless of when the sale or charge was made.
P. 416.

BOWLES v. SEMINOLE ROCK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

410

2. In interpreting an administrative regulation a court must necessarily
look to the administrative construction of the regulation if the meaning of the words used is in doubt. The intention of Congress or the
principles of the Constitution in some situations may be relevant
in the first instance in choosing between various constructions. But
the ultimate criterion is the administrative interpretation, which
becomes of -controlling weight unless it is plainly erroneous or inconsistent with the regulation. Pp. 413-414.
3. This Court does not here determine the constitutionality or statutory validity of the regulation as so construed (matters determinable
in the first instance by the Emergency Court of Appeals); nor any
question of hardship of enforcement of such ceiling price (the procedure for relief therefrom being prescribed by § 2 (c) of the Act
and § 1499.161 of the Regulation). P. 418.
145 F. 2d 482, reversed.
CERTIORAI,

324 U. S. 835, to review a judgment affirm-

ing the dismissal of a suit by the Price Administrator to
enjoin the respondent from violation of the Emergency
Price Control Act of 1942 and Regulations issued pursuant
thereto.
Mr. Henry M. Hart, Jr., pro hac vice, with whom
Solicitor GeneralFahy, Messrs. Robert L. Stern and David
London were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Robert H. Anderson, with whom Messrs. Robert
Ruark, Bennett H. Perry and J. M. Hemphill were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JusTIcE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Our consideration here is directed to the proper
interpretation and application of certain provisions of
Maximum Price Regulation No. 188,1 issued by the Administrator of the Office of Price Administration under
Section 2 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act of
1942.2
17

Fed. Reg. 5872, 7967, 8943.

256 Stat. 23, 24.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Respondent is a manufacturer of crushed stone, a commodity subject to Maximum Price Regulation No. 188.
In October, 1941, respondent contracted to furnish the
Seaboard Air Line Railway crushed stone on demand at
60 cents per ton, to be delivered when called for by Seaboard. This stone was actually delivered to Seaboard in
March, 1942.
In January, 1942, respondent had contracted to sell
crushed stone to V. P. Loftis Co., a government contractor
engaged in the construction of a government dam, for
$1.50 a ton.' This stone was to be delivered by respondent
by barge when needed at the dam site. A small portion of
stone of a different grade than that sold to Seaboard was
delivered to Loftis Co. during January pursuant to this
contract. For some time thereafter, however, Loftis Co.
was unable to pour concrete or to store crushed stone at
the dam site. Respondent thus made no further deliveries
under this contract until August, 1942, at which time
stone of the same grade as received by Seaboard was
delivered to Loftis Co. at the $1.50 rate.
Subsequently, and after the effective date of Maximum
Price Regulation No. 188, respondent made new contracts
to sell crushed stone to Seaboard at 85 cents and $1.00 per
ton. Alleging that the highest price at which respondent
could lawfully sell crushed stone of the kind sold to Seaboard was 60 cents a ton, since that was asserted to be the
highest price charged by respondent during the crucial
month of March, 1942, the Administrator of the Office of
Price Administration brought this action to enjoin respondent from violating the Act and Maximum Price Regulation No. 188.' The District Court dismissed the action
3The contract actually spoke in terms of $1.50 per cubic yard, but
there is no appreciable difference between a cubic yard of crushed
stone and a ton of crushed stone.
4The Administrator also sought to recover from respondent a judgment under § 205 (e) of the Act for three times the amount by which

BOWLES v. SEMINOLE ROCK CO.
410

413

Opinion of the Court.

on the ground that $1.50 a ton was the highest price
charged by respondent during March, 1942, and that this
ceiling price had not been exceeded. The Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. 145 F. 2d 482.
We granted certiorari because of the importance of the
problem in the administration of the emergency price
control and stabilization laws.
In his efforts to combat wartime inflation, the Admin-,
istrator originally adopted a policy of piecemeal price control, only certain specified articles being subject to price
regulation. On April 28, 1942, however, he issued the General Maximum Price Regulation.' This brought the entire
economy of the nation under price control with certain
minor exceptions. The core of the regulation was the requirement that each seller shall charge no more than the
prices which he charged during the selected base period of
March I to 31, 1942. While still applying this general
price "freeze" as of March, 1942, numerous specialized
regulations relating to particular groups of commodities
subsequently have made certain refinements and modifications of the general regulation.' Maximum Price Regulation No. 188, covering, specified building materials and
consumers' goods, is of this number.
The problem in this case is to determine the highest price
respondent charged for crushed stone during Match, 1942,
within the meaning of Maximum Price Regulation No.
188. Sinct: this involves an interpretation of an administhe sales price of the crushed stone sold by the respondent to Seaboard
after the effective date of Maximum Price Regulation No. 188 exceeded
60 cents per ton. The District Court held that the purchaser rather
than the Administrator was vested with whatever cause of action
existed to recover a judgment under § 205 (e). The Circuit Court
of Appeals, however, held that § 205 (e), as amended by § 108 (b) of
the Stabilization Extension Act of 1944, 58 Stat. 640, entitled the
Administrator rather than the purchaser to bring suit under the circumstances of this case. This aspect of the case is not now before us.
5 7 Fed. Reg. 3156.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

trative regulation a court must necessarily look to the administrative construction of the regulation if the meaning
of the words used is in doubt. The intention of Congress
or the principles of the Constitution in some situations
may be relevant in the first instance in choosing between
various constructions. But the ultimate criterion is the
administrative interpretation, which becomes of controlling weight unless it is plainly erroneous or inconsistent
with the regulation. The legality of the result reached by
this process, of course, is quite a different matter. In this
case the only problem is to discover the meaning of certain portions of Maximum Price Regulation No. 188. Our
only tools, therefore, are the plain words of the regulation
and any relevant interpretations of the Administrator.
Section 1499.153 (a) of Maximum Price Regulation No.
188 provides that "the maximum price for any article
which was delivered or offered for deliveiy in March, 1942,
by the manufacturer, shall be the highest price charged by
the manufacturer during March, 1942 (as defined in
§ 1499.163) for the article." Section 1499.163 (a) (2)6 in
turn provides that for purposes of this regulation the
term:
"'Highest price charged during March, 1942' means
"(i) The highest price which the seller charged to a
purchaser of the same class for delivery of the article or
material during March, 1942; or
"(ii) If the seller made no such delivery during March,
1942, such seller's highest offering price to a purchaser of
the same class for delivery of the article or material during that month; or
"(iii) If the seller made no such delivery and had no
such offering price to a purchaser of the same class during March, 1942, the highest price charged by the seller
during March, 1942, to a purchaser of a different class, ad67

Fed. Reg. 7968-7969.

BOWLES v. SEMINOLE ROCK CO.
410

415

Opinion of the Court.

justed to reflect the seller's customary differential between
the two classes of purchasers . . ."

It is thus evident that the regulation establishes three
mutually exclusive rules for determining the highest price
charged by a seller during March, 1942. The facts of each
case must fiist be tested by rule (i); only if that rule is inapplicable may rule (ii) be utilized; and only if both rules
(i) and (ii) are inapplicable is rule (iii) controlling.
The dispute in this instance centers about the meaning
and applicability of rule (i). The Administrator claims
that the rule is satisfied and therefore is controlling whenever there has been an actual delivery of articles in the
month of March, 1942, such as occurred when respondent
delivered the crushed rock to Seaboard at the 60-cent rate.
The respondent, on the other hand, argues that there must
be both a charge and a delivery during March, 1942, in
order to fix the ceiling price according to rule (i). Since
the charge or sale to Seaboard occurred several months
prior to March, it is asserted that rule (i) becomes inapplicable and that rule (ii) must be used. Inasmuch
as there was an outstanding offering price of $1.50 per
ton for delivery of crushed stone to Loftis Co. during the
month of March, 1942, although the stone was not
actually delivered at that time, respondent concludes that
the requirements of rule (ii) have been met and that the
ceiling price is $1.50 per ton.
As we read the regulation, however, rule (i) clearly
applies to the facts of this case, making 60 cents per ton
the ceiling price for respondent's crushed stone. The regulation recognizes the fact that more than one meaning
may be attached to the phrase "highest price charged
during March, 1942." The phrase might be construed
to mean only the, actual charges or sales made during
March, regardless of the delivery dates. Or it might refer
only to the charges made for actual delive-Ry in March.
Whatever may be the variety of meanings, however, rule

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

(i) adopts the highest price which the seller "charged
• . . for delivery" of an article during March, 1942. The
essential element bringing the rule into operation is thus
the fact of delivery during March. If delivery occurs
during that period the highest, price charged for such delivery becomes the ceiling price. Nothing is said concerning the time when the charge or sale7 giving rise to the
delivery occurs. One may make a sale or'charge in October relative to an article which is actually delivered in
March and still be said to have "charged . . . for delivery
. . . during March." We can only conclude, therefore,
that for purposes of rule (i) the highest price charged for
an article delivered during March, 1942, is the seller's
ceiling price regardless of the time when the sale or charge
was made.
This conclusion is further borne out by the fact that
rule (ii) becomes applicable only where "the seller made
no such delivery during March, 1942,"' as contemplated by
rule (i). The absence of delivery, rather than the absence
of both a charge and a delivery during March, is necessary
to make rule (i) ineffective, thereby indicating that the
factor of delivery is the essence of rule (i). It is apparent,
moreover, that the delivery must be an actual instead of a
constructive one. Section 1499.20 (d) of General Maximum Price Regulation, incorporated by reference into
Maximum Price Regulation No. 188 by § 1499.151, defines
the word "delivered" as meaning "received by the purchaser or by any carrier . . .for shipment to the purchaser" during March, 1942. Thus an article is not
7Respondent points to the provision in '§302 (a) of the Act, 56
Stat. 36, to the effect that the term "sale" as used in the Act includes
"sales, dispositions, exchanges, leases, and other transfers, and contracts and offers to do any of the foregoing," as well as to a similar
provision in § 1499.20 (r) of the General Maximum Price Regulation.
But such a definition is of no assistance in determining the meaning of
the Administrator's use of the phrase "charged ....for delivery"
during March, 1942.

BOWLES v. SEMINOLE ROCK CO.
410

Opinion of the Court.

"delivered" to a purchaser during March because of the
existence of an executory contract under which no shipments are actually made to him during that month. In
short, the Administrator in rule (i) was concerned with
what actually was delivered, not with what might have
been delivered.
Any doubts concerning this interpretation of rule (i) are
removed by reference to the administrative construction
of this method of computing the ceiling price. Thus in a
bulletin issued by the Administrator concurrently with
the General Maximum Price Regulation entitled "What
Every Retailer Should Know About the General Maximum Price Regulation," 8 which was made available to
manufacturers as well as to wholesalers and retailers, the
Administrator stated (p. 3): "The highest price charged
during March 1942 means the highest price which the retailer charged for an article actually delivered during that
month or, if he did not make any delivery of that article
during March, then his highest offering price for delivery
of that article during March." He also stated (p. 4) that
"It should be carefully noted that actual delivery during
March, rather than the making of a sale during March,
is controlling." In his First Quarterly Report to Congress, the Administrator further remarked (p. 40) that
"'Highest price charged' means one of two things: (1) It
means the top price for which an article was delivered
during March 1942, in completion of a sale to a purchaser
of the same class . . . (2) If there was no actual delivery
of a particular article during March; the seller may establish as his maximum price the highest price at which he
offered the article for sale dut.ng that month." Finally,
the Administrator has stated that this position has uniformly been taken by the Office of Price Administration
8

General Maximum Price Regulation, Bulletin No. 2 (May, 1942).
Maximum Price Regulation No. 188 established prices "at the identical
level of the General Maximum Price Regulation" for articles dealt in
during March, 1942. 7 Fed. Reg. 5873.

418

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

in the countless explanations and interpretations given
to inquirers affected by this type of maximum price
determination.
Our reading of the language of § 1499.163 (a) (2) of
Maximum Price Regulation No. 188 and the consistent
administrative interpretation "of the phrase "highest price
charged during March, 1942" thus compel the conclusion
that respondent's highest price charged during March for
crushed stone was 60 cents per ton, since that was the highest price charged for stone actually delivered during that
month. The two courts below erred in their interpretation
of this regulation and the judgment below must accordingly be reversed.
We do not, of course, reach any question here as to the
constitutionality or statutory validity of the regulation as
'Respondent points to two allegedly inconsistent interpretations
made by the Administrator:
1. On August 20, 1942 (0. P. A. Press Release No. 564), he made
certain statements with reference to Amendment 23 to the General
Maximum Price Regulation, 7 Fed. Reg. 6615, allowing a different
method of maximum price computation where general price increases
were announced prior to April 1, 1942, and deliveries at lower prices
were made in March under previous contracts. The provisions and
applicability of this amendment are not in issue in this case and
statements interpreting that amendment have no bearing here.
2. On December 5,1942 (0. P. A. Press Release No. 1223), he issued
a statement interpreting Amendment 38 to the General Maximum
Price Regulation and Amendment 3 to Maximum Price Regulation
No. 188, 7 Fed. Reg. 10155. These amendments authorized sellers
who made general price increases prior to April 1, 1942, to apply the
increases to ceiling prices for goods and services delivered during March
under long-term contracts. The Administrator's explanation of these
amendments, which are not presently before us, is likewise irrelevant
in this case.
Indeed, the fact that the Administrator found it necessary to make
such amendments is some evidence that under the rules here in issue
the price established under a previous contract is the maximum price
if that was the highest price for goods actually delivered during March,
1942.

WALLING v. HARDWOOD CO.
.410

419

Syllabus.

we have construed it, matters that must in the first instance
be presented to the Emergency Court of Appeals. Lockerty v. Phillips,319 U. S. 182; Yakus v. United States, 321
U. S. 414, 427-431. Nor are we here concerned with any
possible hardship that the enforcement of the 60-cent price
ceiling may impose on respondent. Adequate avenues for
relief from hardship are open to respondent through the
provisions of § 2 (c) of the Act and § 1499.161 of the
regulation.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS thinks the judgment

should be

affirmed for the reasons given in the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 145 F. 2d 482.

WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND
HOUR DIVISION, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR, v. YOUNGERMAN-REYNOLDS HARDWOOD CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 955. Argued May 1, 1945.-Decided June 4, 1945.
1. In a proceeding brought by the Administrator to enjoin alleged
violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act, the District Court did
not abuse, its discretion in refusing to enjoin the employer's use of
a method of wage payments which the employer had abandoned
on the day before the trial-where the court found no evidence of
intent to resume use of such method of payments, nor of willful
violation of the Act, nor of intent to violate the Act in future.
P. 421.

2. The regular rate contemplated by § 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act refers to the hourly rate actually paid the employee for
the normal, non-overtime workweek for which he is employed. In
the case of piece work wages, this regular rate is the quotient of the
amount received during the week divided by the number of hours
worked. P. 424i

