OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

325 U. S.

COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE v.
DISSTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD
CIRCUIT.

No. 589.

Argued April 24, 1945.-Decided June 4, 1945.

1. Irrevocable trusts for the benefit of minors provided for accumulation of the income from each beneficiary's share until he reached
the age of 21; for payment of the income thereafter during his
lifetime; and for ultimate distribution of the corpus contingently.
The trustees were authorized to apply, during the minority of any
beneficiary, so much of the income from his share "as may be necessary" for his support, education and comfort; and to expend
up to 10% of the corpus in an "emergency." Held that gifts to the
trusts were of "future interests," within the meaning of § 504 (b)
of the Revenue Act of 1932 and applicable Treasury Regulations, so
that in computing the gift tax the $5,000 exclusion prescribed by
that section was not allowable. Fondren v. Commissioner, 324
U.S. 18. P. 447.
2. A taxpayer claiming benefit of the $5,000 exclusion in computing a
gift tax under § 504 (b) of the Revenue Act of 1932 has the burden
of showing that the gift to which the claim relates was not of a
"future interest." P. 449.
3. In computing the gift tax pursuant to the formula prescribed by
§ 502 of the Revenue Act of 1932, an adjustment may be made in
the net gift figure for an earlier year, even though assessment and
collection of a gift tax for such earlier year be barred by limitations. P. 449.
144 F. 2d 115, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 324 U. S. 832, to review the reversal of a
decision of the Tax Court which sustained the Commissioner's determination of deficiencies in gift taxes.

Mr. J. Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
Messrs. Sewall Key and Robert Koerner were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Mr. Harold Evans for respondent.

COMMISSIONER v. DISSTON.
442

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case, like Fondren v. Commissioner, 324 U. S. 18,

presents questions whether certain gifts to minors are
gifts of "future interests in property," within the meaning
of the Revenue Act of 1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169.
In 1936 the respondent, William D. Disston, created a
trust for the benefit of each of his five children, three of
whom were then minors. The total of his gifts that year
was $71,952. The Commissioner allowed an exemption
of $5,000 on each gift for the children and on one to his
wife. The taxpayer also was allowed the specific exemption of $40,000 provided by §505 of the Revenue Act of
1932, as amended by § 301 (b) of the Revenue Act of
1935. The net gifts for 1936 accordingly were computed
to be $1,952, upon which a tax was assessed and paid.
In 1937 the taxpayer added to the corpus of the trust
securities valued at $25,000, of which $5,000 was allocated
to each child's interest, including the three who were still
minors. In 1938 he created another trust for his five children, the corpus consisting of undeveloped land worth
$38,581. Two of the children still were minors.
The two trusts were identical in all respects now material. The principal was divided into five equal shares,
one for each child. The trusts were of the spendthrift
variety. All shares of the corpus and income were to be
free from "anticipation, assignment, pledge, or obligations of beneficiaries," as well as execution or attachment.
The shares of the minors alone are now involved. Hence
the nature of the trust as applicable to them only need be
considered.
The taxpayer's son, William L. Disston, was nineteen in
1936 when the first trust was created. As to his share the
trustees were directed, in the Second Article, "to accumulate the net income therefrom for the benefit of William
L. Disston until he reaches the age of twenty-one years,
at which time to pay over to him all accumulated income,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

and thereafter to pay over to him in not less than quarterly instalments the entire net income derived therefrom
during his lifetime; provided, however, that upon his
reaching the age of forty-five years one-half of the principal of his share shall be paid over to him free and discharged of all trusts; and upon further trust upon his
death whether before or after reaching the age of fortyfive years, to divide the principal of his share, or such portion thereof as is then held by the Trustees, among his
then living descendants . . .in such amounts as he shall
by will appoint, and in default of such appointment, to
divide the same equally per stirpes," with provision for
division among the taxpayer's other children and their
descendants if no descendant of the beneficiary should
,hen be living. The Article contains a proviso that if the
-axpayer's son should die before reaching forty-five, the
son may appoint to his spouse for a period no longer than
her life not more than one-half of the income from his
share of the corpus.
Identical provisions were made for the two *minor
daughters, except that they were to obtain only one-third
of the corpus at age forty-five and could appoint to their
spouses only one-third of the income.
A subsequent paragraph provided that the trustees
should hold the minors' shares during their respective
minorities, "and during such time shall apply such income
therefrom as may be necessary for the education,- comfort
and support of the respective minors, and shall accumulate for each minor until he or she reaches the age of
twenty-one years, all income not so needed. The foregoing clause shall apply to minor children of the Settlor
irrespective of the direction heretofore set forth to accumulate all income for such minors."
In addition the Fourth Article, which defined the .trustees' powers, authorized them "to apply the income to
which any beneficiary shall be entitled hereunder for the

COMMISSIONER v. DISSTON.
442

Opinion of the Court.

maintenance, education, and support of such beneficiary
should he or she by reason of age, illness, or any other
cause in the opinion of the Trustees be incapable of dispensing it. Payment by the Trustees to the parent of
any minor . . . shall be sufficient acquittance and discharge to the Trustees for such payment or payments."
Finally, the trustees were authorized to invade the
corpus in an emergency: "To expend out of the share of
principal from which any beneficiary may be receiving
income under this deed of trust such sums as Trustees
may consider to be for the best interests of such beneficiaries during illness or emergency of any kind; provided,
however, that in no case shall such expenditures of principal exceed in the aggregate ten percent (10%) of the
value of such share of principal . . ."
In operation the 1938 trust of unimproved realty had
produced no net income to the time the case came before
the Tax Court. Most of the 1936 income of the first trust,
$288 for each minor, was paid to the mother of the beneficiaries. In 1937 partial payments of income, $94 per
minor child, were made. The beneficiaries' mother returned other checks to the corporate trustee in 1937, and
one of the individual trustees, an adult child of the taxpayer, directed the corporate trustee thereafter to accumulate the income of the minors. No further payments of income were made to any child prior to his
becoming of age.
In determining the taxpayer's gift tax for 1937 the
Commissioner disallowed three $5,000 exclusions from
the net gifts for that year on the ground that the gifts to
the three minor children were gifts of future interests.
For 1938 the Commissioner disallowed two $5,000 exclusions on the ground that the gifts made that year to the
two children who were still minors were gifts of future
interests.
In computing the gift tax for 1937 and 1938 it was
necessary for the Commissioner to compute the aggregate

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

sum of the net gifts for the preceding years.' The Commissioner, in determining the net gifts made for this purpose by the 1936 trust, adjusted the exclusions which he
had allowed in 1936 to the extent of $5,000 for each of the
three minors. The period of limitations for assessment
and collection of 1936 gift taxes had run.2
The Tax Court upheld the Commissioner, but the
Court of Appeals reversed, holding no future interests
arose as a result of the gifts to the minors. Consequently
it was unnecessary for the Court of Appeals to consider
whether the statute of limitations barred readjustment of
the net gift figure for 1936 or simply barred collection of
any further gift taxes for that year.
The guiding principles were outlined recently in Fondren v. Commissioner, 324 U. S. 18. Gifts of "future interests," within the meaning of § 504 (b), to any person
are not excluded from the computation of net gifts to the
extent of the first $5,000 in value, as are present interests.
Treasury Regulations 79 (1936 ed.), Article 11, defines
"future interests" as interests "limited to commence in
use, possession, or enjoyment at some future date or
time. . . ." The definition has been approved repeatedly. Cf. Ryerson v. United States, 312 U. S. 405; United
States v. Pelzer, 312 U. S. 399; Fondren v. Commissioner,
324 U. S. 18.
1The formula results in a progressive rate of gift taxation, not limited to progression within the calendar year, but extending over the
life of the donor. The computation formula is set forth in § 502 of
the Revenue Act of 1932:
"The tax for each calendar year shall be an amount equal to the
excess of"(1) a tax, computed in accordance with the Rate Schedule hereinafter set forth, on the aggregate sum of the net gifts for such calendar year and for each of the preceding calendar years, over
"(2) a tax, computed in accordance with the Rate Schedule, on
the aggregate sum of the net gifts for each of the preceding calendar
years.
2
See § 517 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1932.

COMMISSIONER v. DISSTON.
442

Opinion of the Court.

Clearly the corpus of the trusts falls within the definition. Distribution to William L. Disston, for example,
has no relation to his reaching his majority, which he has
now attained. He must live to attain the age of forty-five
to enable him to receive one-half of the corpus. If he does
not reach that age, his estate receives no part of the principal. The recipients are an undetermined group designated in the trust provision, among whom the beneficiary
has a limited power of appointment. At the time of the
gifts in 1936-1938 it was unknown who in fact would receive this one-half interest. Obviously the enjoyment
was postponed.
As to the other half in William L. Disston's share, it
likewise was unknown who would enjoy the corpus. One
thing only was known, that the named child could not
enjoy it. He would continue to receive the income from
it for his life, but the principal was not given to him. The
possibility that in an emergency the trustees might invade
the corpus to the extent of ten per cent for his benefit
did not confer a present interest in that part of the principal. The emergency by definition was extraordinary,
something that might or might not occur at some indefinite future time. No present, certain and continuous
enjoyment was contemplated, nor did it materialize.
What has been said of the one minor is true of the others.
The question must be determined whether the trusts
provided for a present interest in the trust income, or
some definable portion of it. The first direction of each
trust is to accumulate the net income until the minor
reaches twenty-one. If that were all, it would again be
clear that a future interest was created by the postponement of enjoyment. A later paragraph directs the trustees, however, "to apply . . . such income therefrom as
may be necessary for the education, comfort and support
of the respective minors" and to accumulate the
remainder.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Respondent urges that this case differs from the Fondren case in that there the trust instrument showed that
it was not contemplated that the income would be needed
for education and support; and the trustee was directed
to accumulate the income unless no other funds were
available for such purposes, whereas here there is nothing
in the trust instrument to indicate such an intent. In
fact, respondent argues, the trust instrument means that
the trustees must apply an amount of the income sufficient to provide for education, comfort and support, even
though the minor is amply cared Aor by his parents, his
own efforts, or other sources of revenue, citing 1 Scott,
Trusts, § 128.4 and other authorities. When faced with
the fact that the history of the trust's administration
shows a practical construction by the trustees that support money need not automatically be paid over, respondent urges that the terms of the trust and the nature of
the interest granted cannot be varied by what was subsequently done in administration.
The language of the trust instruments directs that the
income be accumulated during minority. The subsequent provision for payments for maintenance and support may be said to indicate a departure from the policy
of accumulation only when necessary, in the reasonable
discretion of the trustees. If that is the appropriate interpretation of the trust instruments, then little difference from the Fondren case is involved. Even in its
practical working, the trustees did not find the necessary
prerequisites for a steady application of all or any ascertainable part of the income for education, support and
maintenance.
But, even though the trustees were under a duty to
apply the income for support, irrespective of outside
sources of revenue, there is always the question how
much, if any, of the income can actually be applied for
the permitted purposes. The existence of a duty so to
apply the income gives no clue to the amount that will be

COMMISSIONER v. DISSTON.
442

Opinin of the Court.

needed for that purpose, or the requirements for maintenance, education and support that were foreseeable at the
time the gifts were made. In the absence of some indication from the face of the trust or surrounding circumstances that a steady flow of some ascertainable portion of
income to the minor would be required, there is no basis
for a conclusion that there is a gift of anything other than
for the future. The taxpayer claiming the exclusion must
assume the burden of showing that the value of what he
claims is other than a future interest. Cf. New Colonial
Co. v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 435. That burden has not been
satisfied in this case.
The question remains whether the adjustment of net
gifts for 1936 in computing 1937 and 1938 tax liability is
barred by the statute of limitations. As has been noted,
§ 502 requires utilization of "the aggregate sum of the net
gifts for each of the preceding calendar years" in the formula for computing gift tax liability. Section 517 (a)
does not purport to bar adjustment of the net gift figure
for that purpose, but simply prevents assessment and collection of a tax for a year barred by the statute. The
statute does not purport to preclude an examination into
events of prior years for the purpose of correctly determining gift tax liability for years which are still open.
The Tax Court and Treasury Regulations have construed
§ 517 (a) as requiring determination of the true and correct aggregate of net gifts for previous years.3 The construction is in accord with the statutory language.
Accordingly, the judgment is
Reversed.
8

The pertinent Treasury Regulations 79, Article 5 provides:
..By the words 'aggregate sum of the net gifts for each of the
preceding calendar years' (aside from the amount of the specific exemption deductible) is meant the true and correct aggregate of such
net gifts, not necessarily that returned for such years and in respect
to which tax was paid ... ." See also Winterbotham v. Commissioner, 46 B. T. A. 972; Wallerstein v. Commissioner, 2 T. C. 542;
Roberts v. Commissioner, 2 T. C. 679.

