304

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

judication of insolvency appears in a paragraph otherwise
exclusively devoted to the contingency of bankruptcy.
Petitioner relies on the New York Debtor and Creditor
Law, Consol. L., c. 12, which provides for the discharge
of insolvent debtors in proceedings in the New York
courts. §§ 50-88. It is said that insolvency under that
statute means insolvency in the bankruptcy sense (§ 52)
and that the covenant in question was drawn so as to provide for a forfeiture in the event of such an adjudication.
But as we have said, the covenant in this lease provides
for forfeiture on an adjudication of insolvency "by any
Court." It is ditficult to see in that language a limitation
of the covenant to an adjudication of insolvency by the
New York courts under the Debtor and Creditor Law.'
Affirmed.
CHASE SECURITIES CORP., NOW KNOWN AS AMEREX HOLDING CORP., v. DONALDSON ET AL.,
EXECUTORS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 110.

Argued February 27, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.

1. Upon the record of this suit to recover the purchase price of
securities sold in violation of the Minnesota Blue Sky Law and
on misrepresentations, the defendant's immunity from suit can not

be said to have been finally adjudicated by the state courts prior
to the legislature's enactment of an Act which operated to abolish
any defense that the defendant may' have had under the state
statutes of limitations, and the Act therefore did not deprive the
defendant of property without due process of law in violation, of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Following Campbell v. Holt, 115
U. S. 620. P. 310.
5The other provisions of New York law dealing with insolvency
commonly define it as an inability to pay debts as they mature. The
New York authorities are reviewed by Judge Knox in In re Schulte
Retail Stores Corp., 22 F. Supp. 612, 616.

CHASE SECURITIES CORP. v. DONALDSON.
304

305

Opinion of the Court.

2. The essential holding in Campbell v. Holt-that where lapse of
time has not invested a party with title to real or personal property,
a state legislature, consistently with the Fourteenth Amendment,
may repeal or extend a statute of limitations, even after right of
action is barred thereby, restore to the plaintiff his remedy, and
divest the defendant of the statutory bar-so far as applicable to
this case, is sound and should not be overruled. Pp. 311, 315.
3. The Act in question was a general one, applying to all similarly
situated persons or transactions, and did not violate the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 309, n. 5.
4. That the defendant had no opportunity to submit testimony of
legislators as to the intent of the Act did not constitute a denial of
due process of law. P. 309, n. 5.
216 Minn. 269, 13 N. W. 2d 1, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment upholding the constitutionality of a state statute in a suit to recover the purchase price
of securities sold to the plaintiff.
Mr. Henry Root Stern, 'with whom Messrs. Frederick
H, Stinchfield, Jr., John M. Palmer and Floyd E. Nelson

were o4 the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Beni.eti

S. Deinard,with whom Mr. Hyman Edel-

man was on t1fh brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered

the

opinion of the

Court.

This appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota attacks as violative of the Fourteenth Amendment a provision of the Minnesota statutes enacted as part
of a general revision of the Minnesota Securities or Blue
Sky Law.

Its effect upon appellant was to lift the bar of

the statute of limitations in a pending litigation, which
appellant contends amounts to taking its property without due process of law.

This action was brought in state court in November,
1937, to recover the purchase price of "Chase units," sold
by appellant in Minnesota to the appellees' testate August

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

10, 1929. The "units" had not been registered as required
by the laws of that state. The action was based in part
on illegality of the sale, but it also was grounded on common, law fraud and deceit. Defendant relied among other
defenses on the statute of limitations. Plaintiff countered
that the running of the statute had been suspended because defendant had withdrawn from the state and the
statute did not run during its absence. The case was tried
by the court without a jury. It found that there was a sale
in violation of the Blue Sky Law, that the Minnesota
6-year statute of limitations applying to actions "upon a
liability created by statute" governed the case but had
been tolled by withdrawal of the appellant from the state
in 1931. Judgment was therefore rendered for the purchase price adjusted for interest and dividends and the
court found it unnecessary to pass on the fraud issues.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota reversed.1 It held by
reference to a companion case' that the statute of limitations had not been tolled by the appellant's absence from
the state because it had designated agents to receive service of process after its departure as required by statute.
The case was remanded on January 10, 1941 without
prejudice to further proceedings on "issues other than that
of the tolling of the statute of limitations."
While proceedings were pending in the lower court, the
legislature enacted a statute, effective July 1, 1941, which
amended the Blue Sky Law in many particulars not pertinent here. The section in question added a specific statute of limitations applicable to actions based on violations
of the Blue Sky Law ' as to which there had been no provi1Donaldson v. Chase Securities Corp., 209 Minn. 165, 296 N. W.
518.
2 Pomeroy v. National City Co., 209 Minn. 155, 296 N. W. 513.
3The section reads:
"Other actions or prosecutions not limited.-No action shall be
maintained for relief upon a sale of securities made in violation of

CHASE SECURITIES CORP. v. DONALDSON.
304

307

Opinion of the Court.

sion except a general statute of limitations. Under the
former law the limitation on actions for fraud did not commence to run until its discovery. Under the new law,
actions for failure to disclose non-registration or for misrepresentations concerning registration, or for falsity of
representations implied from the fact of sale, all of which
grounds were set up in this action, must be brought within
six years of delivery of the securities. Aggrieved purany of the provisions of this act, or upon a sale of securities made in
violation of any of the provisions of a registration thereof under this
act, or for failure to disclose that the sale thereof was made in violation
of any of the provisions of this act or in violation of any of the provisions of a registration thereof under this act, or upon any representation with respect to the rea;strafion or nonregistration of the security
claimed to be implied from any such sale, unless commenced within
six years after the date on which said securities were delivered to the
purchaser pursuant to such sale, provided that if, prior to the effective
date of this section, more than five years shall have elapsed from the
date of such delivery, then such action may be brought within a period
of one year following such effective date, and provided further that
no purchaser of a security otherwise entitled thereto shall bring any
action for relief of the character above set forth who shall have refused
or failed, within 30 days after the receipt thereof by such purchaser,
to accept a written offer from the seller or from any person who participated in such sale to take back the securities in question and to
refund the full amount paid therefor by such purchaser, together
with interest on such amount from the date of payment to the date
of repayment, such interest to be computed at the same rate as the
fixed interest or dividend rate, if any, provided for in such securities,
or, if no rate is so provided, at the rate of six per centum per amum i
less in every case the amount of any income received by the purchaser
on such securities. Any written offer so made to a purchaser of a
security shall be of no force or effect unless a duplicate thereof shall
be filed with the commissioner of securities prior to the delivery
thereof to such purchaser.
"Nothing in this section, except as. herein expressly set forth, shall
limit any other right of any person to bring any action in any court for
any act involved in or right arising ont of a sale of securities or the
right of the state to punish any person for any violation of law."
Mason's Minn. Stat. 1941 Supp., § 3996-24.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

chasers were therefore denied future benefit of suspension
of the period of limitation during the time such frauds or
grounds of action remained undiscovered. But it also
was provided that where delivery had occurred more than
five years prior to the effective date of the Act, which was
the fact in this case, the action might be brought within
one year after the law's enactment. The effect of this was
to abolish any defense that appellant might otherwise
have made under the Minnesota statutes of limitation.
Both appellant and appellee moved in the trial court,
shortly after the Act became effective, for supplemental
findings. Appellant asked findings in its favor on the
theory that the action was barred, that the new Act was
inapplicable, and that there was no proof of actual fraud.
Appellee contended that the 1941 law applied and that by
reason of it recovery was not barred. The trial court
determined that the plaintiff was entitled to recover in
tort both on the ground of an illegal sale and on the ground
of common-law fraud and deceit; that plaintiff :iad not
discovered the deception until shortly before the action
was begun; that the provisions of the 1941 Act applied
to the plaintiff's "cause of action, or any of the separate
grounds of relief asserted by plaintiff," and operated to
extend the time for the commencement of action thereon
to July 1, 1942 and that plaintiff's action was therefore
commenced within the time limited by the statutes of
Minnesota. The appellant moved for amended findings
and then for the first time raised the federal constitutional
question that the statute; if applied so to lift the bar,
deprived appellant of property without due process of law,
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Its motion
was denied.
.:
Appealing again to the Supreme Court of Minnesota,
appellant among other things urged this federal constitutional question. The Supreme Court again did not reach
decision of the fraud aspects of the case. It held that the
I

CHASE SECURITIES CORP. v. DONALDSON.
304

309

Opinion of the Court.

Blue Sky Law required the-securities to be registered and
was violated by the sale; that the action was one in tort
to recover as damages the purchase price of unregistered
securities sold in Minnesota; that the new limitations
statute was applicable and had the effect of lifting any
pre-existing bar of the general limitation statute and that
in so doing it did not violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. The court relied on Campbell
v. Holt, 115 U. S. 620, saying, "We do not find that Campbell v. Holt has been reversed or reconsidered, and we
regard it as sound law; and, certainly, so far as the federal
constitution is concerned, it is binding on this court until
reversed by the Supreme Court."' The judgment was
therefore affirmed, rehearing was sought and denied,' and
the case brought here by appeal.
Donaldson v. Chase Securities Corp., 216 Minn. 269, 276, 13 N. W.
2d 1.
5The petition for rehearing for the first time raised two questions
also urged here, but which may be disposed of shortly.
1. That the Act in question violated the Fourteenth Amendment in
denying equal protection of the law. Even if seasonably made, which
ii doubtful (see American Surety Co. v. Baldwin, 287 U. S. 156), the
claim is without merit. The statute on its face is a general one, applying to all similarly situated persons or transactions. It appears that
a number of cases were involved. Among other litigations were Stern
v. National City Co. (D. C. Minn.), 25 F. Supp. 948, aff'd, sub nom.
City Co. of New.York v. Stern (C. C. A. 8th), 110 F. 2d 601, rev'd,
312 U. S. 666; Chase Securities Corp. v. Vogel (C. C. A. 8th), 110
F. 2d 607, rev'd, 312 U. S. 666. These were remanded by this Court
to the Circuit Court of Appeals "for further proceedings with respect
to any questions not determined by the Supreme Court of Minnesota" in the Pomeroy and Donaldson cases. Also in this class of
cases was Shepard v. City Co- of New York (D. C. Minn.), 24 F.
Supp. 682. That the motivation for the Act" may have arisen in a
few' cases or in a single case would not establish that a general act
such as we have described would deny equal protection.
2. The claim that appellant was denied due process of law because
it had no opportunity to submit testimony of legislators as to legislative.intent appears to us frivolous. The state court has seen fit to

310-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

As the case stood in the state courts it is not one where
a defendant's statutory immunity from suit had been fully
adjudged so that legislative action deprived it of a final
judgment in its favor. The lower court had. decided
against appellant. The Supreme Court had confined its
reversal to one question-whether the defendant's withdrawal from the state tolled the running of the statute of
limitations. The case was returned to the lower court
without prejudice to any other question.
Appellant, however, insists that it was sued upon two
separate and independent causes of action, onV being "upon
a liability created by statute," and that its immunity from
suit on that cause of action had been finally adjudicated.
The argument is not consistent with the holdings of the
state court. tlhe Blue Sky Law imposes duties upon a
seller of certain securities, but it does not expressly define
a liability f6r their omission or create a cause of action
in favor of a buyer of unregistered securities. The state
courts, nevertheless, held that such an illegal sale will support'a common-law action in tort. Drees v. Minnesota
Petroleunm Co., 189 Minn. 608, 250 N. W. 563. And on
the second appeal of this case the court said, "The action
was brought in tort to recover as damages the purchase
price of unregistered securities . . . It also sought recovery on the ground of deceit based on misrepresentation,
but, in view of our disposition'of the cav, we need not condraw inferences as to the intent of an act from its .timing and from
its provisions and from background facts of public notorjety. But.that
does not mean that the judgment must be set aside to afford a party
the opportunity to call legislators to prove that the court's inferences
as to intent were wrong. Statutes ordinarily bespeak their own intention, and when their meaning is obscure or dubious a state court
may determine for itself what sources of extrastatutory enlightenment
it will consult. Our custom of going back of an act to explore legislative history does not obligate, state courts to do so, -and there is
nothing in the Constitution which by the widest stretch of the imagination could be held to require-taking testimony from a few or a majority
of the legislators to prove legislative "intent."

CHASE SECURITIES CORP. v. DONALDSON. 311
Opinion of the Court.

304

sider that phase of the case." ' It is not uncommon that
a single cause of action in tort will rest both on omission
of a statutory duty and on common-law negligence; the
two bases do not necessarily multiply the causes of action. Cf. Baltimore Steamship Co. v. Phillips, 274 U. S.
316, 321; New York Central R. Co. v. Kinney, 260 U. S.
340, 346; Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. Koennecke, 239
U. S.352, 354. This appears to be permitted by the law
of Minnesota. Tuder v. Oregon Short Line R. Co., 131
Minn. 317, 318-19, 155 N. W. 200. It is true that the
Supreme Court in disposing of the first appeal relied on a
companion case in which it was said that "plaintiff must
be considered to have sued 'upon a liability created by
statute.' " I The pleadings in the companion case are
not before us. No separate statement of a statutory cause
of action is set out in the complaint in this case. The
state court did not dispose of the liability for statutory
violation as a separate cause of action by dismissal or
otherwise. We cannot say that it was finally or separately
adjudicated. The state courts seem to have treated the
complaint as setting up several bases for a single common-law cause of action in tort which had. been remanded
for retrial at the time the new statute was enacted. We
must regard it in that same light.
The substantial federal questions which survive the
state court decision are whether this case is governed by
Campbell v. Holt and, if so, whether that case should be
reconsidered and overruled.
In Campbell v. Holt, supra, this Court held that where
lapse of time has not invested a party with title to real or
personal property, a state legislature, consistently with the
Fourteenth Amendment, may repeal or extend a statute
of limitations, even after right of action is barred thereby,
restore to the plaintiff his remedy, and divest the defend6 Donaldson v.
7 Pomeroy

Chase Securities Corp., 216 Minn. 269, 270-71.
v. National City Co., 209 Minn. 1,55, 156, 296 N. W. 513.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

ant of the statutory bar. This has long stood as a statement of the law of the Fourteenth Amendment, and we
agree with the court below that its holding is applicable
here and fatal to the contentions of appellant.'
Appellant asks that in case we find Campbell v. Holt
controlling it be reconsidered and overruled. We are reminded that some state courts have not followed it in construing provisions of their constitutions similar to the due
process clause.' Many have, as they are privileged to do,
so interpreted their own easily amendable constitutions
"Appellant invokes the principle of our decisions in William DanaY & Co. v. Gulf & Ship Island R. Co., 268 U. S. 633, and Davis v.
Mills, 194 U. S. 451. But the state court so construed the relationship
between its limitation acts and the state law creating the asserted
liability as to make these cases inapplicable, and we do not think it
did so improperly. In the Danzer case it was held that where a statute
in creating a liability also put a period to its existence, a retroactive
extension of the period after its expiration amounted to a taking of
property without due process of law. Read with the Danzer case,
Davis v. Mills stands for the proposition that the result may be the
same if the period of limitation is prescribed by a different statute
if it "was directed to the newly created -liability so specifically as to
warrant saying that it qualified the right." 194 U. S. 454. But the
situation here plainly does not parallel that in the Danzer case, and
the state court whose province it is to construe state legislation has
found no parallel to the Davis case. At the time this action was
commenced the Blue Sky Law of Minnesota had imposed on appellant
a duty; it had not explicitly created a liability. The liability was
implied by, the state's common law; the period of limitation was
found only in the general statute of limitations enacted many years
earlier. The state court concluded that the challenged statute did not
confer on appellees a new right or subject appellant to a new liability.
It considered that the effect of the legislation was merely to reinstate
a lapsed remedy, that appellant had acquired no vested right to immunity from a remedy for its wrong in selling unregistered securities,
and that reinstatement of the remedy by the state legislature did
not infringe any federal right under the Fourteenth Amendment, as
expounded by this Court in Campbell v. Holt.
9 Wasson v. State, 187 Ark. 537, 60 S. W. 2d 1020; Bussey v. Bishop,
169 Ga. 251, 150 S. E. 78; Board of Education v. Blodgett, 155 Ill.

CHASE SECURITIES CORP. v. DONALDSON. 313
304

Opinion of the Court.

to give restrictive clauses a more rigid interpretation than
we properly could impose upon them from without by construction of the federal instrument which is amendable
only with great difficulty and with the cooperation of many
States.
We are also cited to some criticisms of Campbell v. Holt
in legal literature."0 But neither in volume nor in weight
are they more impressive than has been directed at many
decisions that deal with controversial and recurrent
issues.
Statutes of limitations always have vexed the philosophical mind for it is difficult to fit them into a completely
logical and symmetrical system of law. There has been
controversy as to their effect. Some are of opinion that
like the analogous civil la'w doctrine of prescription "1limitations statutes should be viewed as extinguishing the
.claim and destroying the right itself. Admittedly it is
troublesome to sustain as a "right" a claim that can find
no remedy for its invasion. On the other hand, some common-law courts have regarded true statutes of limitation
as doing no more than to cut off resort to the courts for
enforcement of a claim. 2 We do not need to settle these
arguments.
441, 40 N. E. 1025; Jackson v. Evans, 284 Ky. 748, 145 S. W. 2d 1061;
Wilkes County v. Forester,204 N. C. 163, 167 S. E. 691; Raymer v.

Comley Lumber Co., '169 Okla. 576,38 P. 2d 8; Cathey v. Weaver, 111
Tex. 515, 242 S. W. 447; Re Swan's Estate, 95 Utah 408, 79 P. 2d
999; Eingartnerv. Illinois Steel Co., 103 Wis. 373, 79 N. W. 433.
10 Appellant cites 2 Lewis' Sutherland, Statutory Construction (2d
ed. 1904) § 708, p. 1288; 1 Wood, Limitations (4th ed. 1916) § 11,
pp. 47-49; 24 Col. Law Rev. 803 (1924); 10 Corn. L. Q. 212 (1925);
2 Geo. Wash. Law Rev. 100 (1933); Rottschaefer, Constitutional Law
(1939) § 252, pp. 548-9.
1 See La. Civ. Code, Arts. 3457-3459; Billings v. Hall, 7 Cal. 1,
4; Goddard's Heirs v. Urquhart,6 La. 659, 673.
12 See Gilbert v. Selleck, 93 Conn. 412, 106 A. 439; In re Estate of
Daniel, 208 Minn. 420, 294 N. W. 465; Bates v. Cullum, 177 Pa. 633,
35 A. 861.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Statutes of limitation find their justification in necessity
and convenience rather than in logic. They represent expedients, rather than principles. They are practical and
pragmatic devices to spare the courts from litigation of
stale claims, and the citizen from being put to his defense
after memories have faded, witnesses have died or disappeared, and evidence has been lost. Order of Railroad
Telegraphers v. Railway Express Agency, 321 U. S. 342,
349. They are by definition arbitrary, and their operation
does not discriminate between the just and the unjust
claim, or the voidable and unavoidable delay. They have
come into the law not through the judicial process but
through legislation." They represent a public policy about
the privilege to litigate. Their shelter has never been regarded as what now is called a "fundamental" right or what
used to be called a "natural" right of the individual. He
may, of course, have the protection of the policy while it
exists, but the history of pleas of limitation shows them to
be good only by legislative grace and to be subject to a
relatively large degree of legislative control.
This Court, in Campbell v. Holt, adopted as a working
hypothesis, as a matter of constitutional law, the view that
statutes of limitation go to matters of remedy, not to
destruction of fundamental rights. The abstract logic of
the distinction between substantive rights and remedial
or procedural rights may not be clear-cut, but it has been
found a workable concept to point up the real and valid
difference between rules in which stability is of prime importance and those in which flexibility is a more important
value. The contrast between the acceptable result of the
reasoning of Campbell v. Holt and its rather unsatisfactory
rationalization was well pointed out by Mr. Justice Holmes
when as Chief Justice of Massachusetts he wrote:
13For history of these acts see Atkinson, "Some Procedrlr Aspccts
of the Statute of Limitations," 27 Col. Law Rev. 157 (1927).

CHASE SECURITIES CORP. v. DONALDSON. 315
304

Opinion of the Court.

"Nevertheless in this case, as in others, the prevailing
judgment of the profession has revolted at the attempt to
place immunities which exist only by reason of some slight
technical defect on absolutely the same footing as those
which stand on fundamental grounds. Perhaps the reasoning of the cases has not always been as sound as the
instinct which directed the decisions. It may be that sometimes it would have been as well not to attempt to make
out that the judgment of the court was consistent with
constitutional rules, if such rules were to be taken to have
the exactness of mathematics. It may be that it would
have been better to say definitely that constitutional rules,
like those of the common law, end in a penumbra where
the Legislature has a certain freedom in fixing the line,
as has been recognized with regard to the police power.
Camfield v. United States, 167 U. S. 518, 523, 524. But
however that may be, multitudes of cases have recognized
the power of the Legislature to call a liability into being
where there was none before, if the circumstances yere
such as to appeal with some strength to the prevailing
views of justice, and if the obstacle in the way of the
creation seemed small." Danforth v. Groton Water Co.,
178 Mass. 472, 476, 59 N. E. 1033. This statement was
approved and followed by the New York Court of Appeals in Robinson v. Robins Dry Dock Co., 238 N. Y. 271,
144 N. E. 579.
The essential holding in Campbell v. Holt, so far as it
applies to this case, is sound and should not be overruled.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not make an act of
state legislation void -merely because it has some retrospective operation. What it does forbid is taking of life,
liberty or property without due process of law. Some rules
of law probably could not be changed retroactively without hardship and oppression, and this whether wise or unwise in their origin. Assuming that statutes of linitation,
like other types of legislation, could be so manipulated that

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

their retroactive effects would offend the Constitution, certainly it cannot be said that lifting the bar of a statute
of limitation so as to restore a remedy lost through mere
lapse of time is per se an offense against the Fourteenth
Amendment. Nor has the' appellant pointed out special
hardships or oppressive effects which result from lifting
the bar in this class of cases with retrospective force. This
is not a case where appellant's conduct would have been
different if the present rule had been known and the change
foreseen. It does not say, and could hardly say, that it
sold unregistered stock depending on a statute of limitation for shelter from liability. The nature of the defenses
shows that no course of action was undertaken by appellant on the assumption that the old rule would be continued. When the action was commenced, it no doubt
expected to be able to defend by invoking Minnesota public
policy that lapse of time had closed the courts to the case,
and its legitimate hopes have been disappointed. But
the existence of the policy at the time the action was commenced did not, under the circumstances, give the appellant a constitutional right against change of policy before
final adjudication. Whatever grievance appellant may
have at the change of policy to its disadvantage, it had
acquired no immunity from this suit that has become a
federal constitutional right. The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

