OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

outside the United States; (2) the particular transaction
In issue is detrimental to Okin's interests as a stockholder
inasmuch as the management extended a note of a subsidiary at a reduced interest rate; (3) various corporate officers held conversations with each other and with members
of the Commission's staff; (4) his constitutional rights
have been invaded; and (5) the transaction is void for
failure to comply with § 20 of the New York Stock Corporation Law. Such frivolous claims of fraud' are insufficient to warrant making an exception to the general rule
that a stockholder cannot appeal an administrative order
which involves only the corporation as such.
MR. JusicE BLAcK and MR. JUSTICE REED join in that

part of this dissent dealing with No. 470, the American
Power& Light Co. case.
AKINS v. TEXAS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CRIMINAL APPEALS OF TEXAS.

No. 853. Argued April 30, May 1, 1945.-Decided June 4, 1945.
1. The manner in which the court which convicted the petitioner was
organized-assignment of a judge pursuant to a statute the validity
of which under the state constitution was upheld by the highest
court of the State-,-violated no fundamental principle of justice and
denied no right of the petitioner under the Federal Constitution.
P. 399, n. 1.
2. Although there was but one Negro on the grand jury which indicted
the Negro petitioner, the record in this case fails to establish that
the jury commissioners deliberately and intentionally limited the
number of Negroes on the panel, or that there was discrimination
on account of race in the selection of the grand jury, in violation of
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution. Pp. 403, 407.
3. It is unnecessary here to consider whether purposeful limitation
of jurors by race to the approximate proportion that the eligible
jurymen of the race so limited bears to the total eligibles would be
invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 407.
182 S. W. 2d 723, affirmed.

AKINS v. TEXAS.
Opinion of the Court.

398
CERTIORARI,

324 U. S. 836, to review a judgment which

affirmed a sentence of death upon a conviction of murder.
Messrs. A. S. Baskett and W. J. Durham for petitioner.
Benjamin T. Woodall, Assistant Attorney General of
Texas, with whom Grover Sellers, Attorney General, was
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
This certiorari brings here for review a judgment of the
Criminal District Court of Dallas County, Texas, sentencing petitioner to execution on a jury verdict which
found petitioner guilty of murder with malice and assessed
the penalty at death.
Certiorari was sough-t to the Court of Criminal Appeals
of the State of Texas, which had affirmed the judgment,
on a petition which claimed discrimination on account of
his race, against the petitioner, who is a Negro,. under the
equal protection and due process clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.'
1 Certiorari

was allowed also for alleged denial of due process under.

the Fourteenth Amendment because of the manner in which the trial
judge was designated to conduct the trial court. He acted by assignment of the presiding judge of the First Administrative Judicial
District of Texas under General and Special Laws, 48th Leg. Reg.
Sess., p. 25 (Vernon's Annotated Civil Statutes, Texas, Art. 200a,
§ 5) instead of by appointment by the Governor under § 28, Article
5, of the Constitution of Texas, to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of the regularly chosen occupant.
The legality of the assignment depends upon the validity of the
provisions of the state statute- as tested by the Texas Constitution.
The constitutional requirement is that vacancies in the office of judges
shall be filled by the Governor. The Texas statute provided for
assignment of other judges for the work of the court. This statute
was interpreted by the Court of Criminal Appeals to provide merely
for the functioning of courts under assigned judges, who did not qualify as successors to decedent judqes, until the vacancy was filled by
appointment or election. The court upheld the constitutionality of

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Certiorari was allowed because of the importance in the
administration of criminal justice of the alleged racial discrimination which was relied upon to support the claim
of violation of constitutional rights. 324 U. S. 836. This
discrimination was said to consist of an arbitrary and pur-

poseful limitation by the Grand Jury Commissioners of
the number of Negroes to one who was to be placed upon
the grand jury panel of sixteen for the term of court at

which the indictment against petitioner was found. This
is petitioner's only complaint as to racial discrimination.
No other errors in the proceedings are pointed out.

The Fourteenth Amendment forbids any discrimination against a race in the selection of a grand jury.' Neal
v. Delaware, 103 U. S.370, 394; Pierre v. Louisiana, 306

U. S. 354,356; Smith v.Texas, 311 U. S. 128; Hillv. Texas,
316 U. S. 400. The burden is, of course, upon the defendant to establish' the discrimination. Tarrance v. Florida,

188 U. S. 519, 520;.Martinv. Texas, 200 U. S. 316; Norris
v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 590. An allegation of discriminatory practices in selecting a grand jury panel challenges
an essential element of proper judicial procedure--the rethe statute. Pierson v. State, 177 S. W. 2d 975; Fuller v. State, 180
S. W. 2d 361; Jones v. State, 181 S. W. 2d 75; Brown v. State, 181
S. W. 2d 93; Akins v. State, 182 S. W. 2d 723. Whether the state
rule is expressed in constitution, statute or decision, or partly in one
and partly in another, the state's power is to be viewed as a totality.
In the absenceof a violation of fundamental principle of justice, a
state's determination is conclusive upon the federal courts as to the
'meaning of the state law, so far as any federal question
is concerned.
Hebert v. Louisiana, 272 U. S. 312, 316; Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query,
286 U. S. 472, 479-80; United.Gas Co. v. Texas, 303 U. S. 123, 141-42.
We find no violation of any of petitioner's federal rights in Texas'
decision upon the legality of the organization of thecourt which tried
petitioner.
2 Constitution, Fourteenth Amendment, § 1: "...
nor shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due
process of lAw; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws."

AKINS v. TEXAS.
398

Opinion of the Court.

quirement of fairness on the part of the judicial arm of
government in dealing with persons charged with criminal offenses. It cannot lightly be concluded that officers
of the courts disregard this accepted standard of justice.
The order overruling the motion to quash the indictment was made after evidence and without opinion. That
motion set out the alleged purposeful limitation on racial
representation which is pressed here. The Court of Criminal Appeals, however, without a written analysis of the
testimony, said in an opinion that it failed "to find any
evidence of discrimination. On the contrary, the evidence
shows an effort on the part of the authorities to comply
with the holding of this court 4nd of the Supreme Court
of the United States upon the question of discrimination."
Akins v. State, 182 S. W. 2d 723. This reference to the
holdings of the state and federal. courts was t- J "'_ v.
State, 145 Tex. Cr. R. 289, 167 S. W. 2d 758, which reversed
a previous conviction of petitioner on the authority of Hill
v. Texas, supra. Although this opinion of the Court of
Criminal Appeals does not refer to proportional racial representation on juries, recent decisions of that court had
previously disapproved that procedure. Hamilton v.
State, 141 Tex. Cr. R. 614, 150 S. W. 2d 395, 400, r. c.; Hill
v. State, 144 Tex. Cr. R. 415, 157 S. W. 2d 369, 373, 1. c.,
reversed on other grounds, 316 U. S. 400. We think, therefore, that the conclusions of the state courts show that in
their judgment there was no proven racial discrimination
by limitation in this case. Otherwise there would have
been a reversal by the Court of Criminal Appeals.
As will presently appear, the transcript of the evidence
presents certain inconsistencies and conflicts of testimony
in regard to limiting the numberz of Negroes on the grand
jury. Therefore, the trier of fact who heard the witnesses
in full and observed their demeanor on the stand has a
better opportunity than a reviewing court to reach a correct conclusion as to the existence of that type of discrimination. While our duty, in reviewing a conviction upon

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

a complaint that the procedure through which it was obtained violates due process and equal protection under the
Fourteenth Amendment, calls for our examination of evidence to determine for ourselves whether a federal constitutional right has been denied, expressly or in substance
and effect, Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 589-90; Smith
v. Texas, 311 U. S. 128, 130, we accord in that examination
great respect to the conclusions of the state judiciary,
Pirrev., ouisiana,306 U. S. 354, 358. That respect leads
us to accept the conclusion of the trier on disputed issues
"unless it is so lacking in support in the evidence that to
give it effect would work that fundamental unfairness
which is at war with due process," Lisenba v. California,
314 U. S. 219, 238, or equal protection. Cf. Ashcraft v.
Tennessee, 322 U. S. 143, 152,153; Malinski v. New York,
324 U. S. 401, 404.
The regular statutory practice for the selection of grand
jurors was followed in this case. Under the Texas statutes
jury commissioners appointed by the judge of the trial
court select a list of sixteen grand-jurymen from which list
twelve are chosen as a grand jury. Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, Articles 333,337. Qualifications for grandjurymen are set out in Article 339.1 The Commissioners
8

Art. 339. "No person shall be selected or serve as a grand juror
who does not possess the following qualifications:
"1. He must be a citizen of the State, and of the county in which he
is'to serve, and qualified under the Constitution and laws to vote in
said county; but, whenever it shall be made to appear to the court
that the requisite number of jurors who have paid their poll taxes can
not be found within the county, the court shall not regard the payment
of poll taxes as a qualification for service as a juror.
"2. He must be a freeholder within the State, or a householder within
the county.
"3. He must be of sound mind and good moral character.
"4. He must be able to read and write.
"5. He must not have been convicted of any felony.
"6., He must not be under indictment or other legal accusation for
,theft or of any felony."

AKINS v. TEXAS.
398

Opinion of the Court.

are instructed by the court as to their duties. Art. 366.
This method of selection leaves a wide range of choice to
the commissioners. Its validity, however, has been accepted by this Court. Smith v. Texas, 311 U. S. 128, 130.
Petitioner does not attack it now. Its alternative would
be a list composed of all eligibles within the trial court's
jurisdiction and selection of the panel by lot.
Petitioner's sole objection to the grand jury is that the
"commissioners deliberately, intentionally and purposely
limited the number of the Negro race that should be
selected on said grand jury panel to one member." Fairness in selection has never been held to require proportional representation of races upon a jury. Virginia v.
Rives, 100 U. S. 313, 322-23; Thomas v. Texas, 212 U. S.
278, 282. Purposeful discrimination is not sustained by
a showing that on a single grand jury the number of members of one race is less than that race's proportion of the
eligible individuals. The number of our races and nationalities stands in the way of evolution of such a conception of due process or equal protection. Defendants
under our criminal statutes are not entitled to demand representatives of their racial inheritance upon juries before
whom they are tried. But such defendants are entitled
to require that those who are trusted with jury selection shall not pursue a course of conduct which results
in discrimination "in the selection of jurors on racial
grounds." Hill v. Texas, supra, 404. Our directions that
indictments be quashed when Negroes, although numerous in the community, were excluded from grand jury
lists have been based on the theory that their continual
exclusion indicated discrimination and not on the theory
that racial groups must be recognized. Norris v. Alabama, supra;Hill v. Texas, supra;Smith v. Texas, supra.

The mere fact of inequality in the number selected does
not in itself show discrimination. A purpose to discriminate must be present which may be proven by systematic

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

exclusion of eligible jurymen of the proscribed race or by
unequal application of the law to such an extent as
to show intentional discrimination. Cf. Snowden v.
Hughes, 321 U. S. 1, 8. Any such discrimination which
affects an accused will make his conviction unlawful.
The history and record of this case gives evidence that
the courts of Texas which are charged with the trial of
petitioner endeavored to comply with the federal constitutional requirements as to the selection of grand juries,
according to the interpretation of this Court in Hill v.
Texas, supra. Not only did the Court of Criminal Appeals reverse a former conviction of petitioner on its
authority but the judge, now deceased, of the criminal
district court of Dallas instructed the three jury commissioners, who selected this grand jury list, as testified to
by each of them, that there should be no discrimination
against anyone because of his color.'
' Commissioner Wells: "In the selection of our panel of sixteen for
the grand jury the way we determined whom we would put on that
list was, we were advised by Judge Grover Adams that the Supreme
Court had ruled that we could not discriminate against any one because of his color, as I recall, they had not been discriminating for
selection on the grand jury panel; and in turn they said there were
sixteen, and it would be further evident if we placed one among the
twelve so as to make it clear."
Commissioner Tennant: "When the grand jury commissioners
were appointed by Judge Adams the only thing I remember he said
is that we could not discriminate against the negro population being
represented on the grand jury. No, he just outlined if he could qualify
as a grand juror. In this particular instance we selected one negro
on this panel; so far as I am concerned, I read in the paper that the
Supreme Court of the United States stated that a negro could sit
on the grand jury. ... Judge Adams never mentioned to us about

putting one negro on the grand jury, or five or ten. Yes, that there
must be representation for the race."
Commissioner Douglas: "At that time Judge Adams, the judge of
this court made some reference or instructions about how to select
the grand jury. He thought it well to select negroes on the grand
jury. He said he thought it would be well to select a negro on the

AKINS v. TEXAS.
398

Opinion of the Court.

Hill v. Texas, supra, was decided June 1, 1942. The
trial court has four terms a year-January, April, July
and October. After the Hill decision, the jury commissioners who were appointed at the July 1942 term to select
grand jurors for the October 1942 ,term, Texas Code of
Criminal Procedure, Arts. 333 and 338, placed a Negro on
the grand jury list although he did not serve. Under the
instructions of the judge as just detailed, the commissioners for the January 1943 term, at which petitioner was
indicted, placed a Negro on the list and he served as a
grand juror. Prior to the decision in the Hill case, it does
not appear that any colored person had ever served on a
grand jury in Dallas County.
On the precise act of discrimination by the jury commissioners which is asserted by petitioner, th is the deliberate, intentional and purposeful limitation to one of the
number of Negroes on the grand jury panel, the record
shows as follows. About fifteen and one-half per cent of
the population of Dallas County, Texas, is negro. A substantial percentage of them are qualified to serve as grand
jurors. No exact comparison can be made between the
white and r'egro citizens as to the percentage of each
race which is eligible. On the strictly mathematical basis
of population, a grand jury of twelve would have 1.8552
negro members on the average. Of course, tit
,cqualifications for grand jury service, note 3 supra, would affect the
proportion of eligibles from the two races. As one member of the Negro race served upon the grand jury which
indicted petitioner and one had appeared upon the other
grand jury list which had been selected after the decision
in Hill v. Texas, we cannot say that the omission from each
of the two lists of. all but one of the members of a race
grand jury. There was no further discussion about that. We did
select a negro on the grand jury.

All three of us went out there

to see him. We all went and talked to just one negro and that is the
one we selected."

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

which composed some fifteen per cent of the population
alone proved racial discrimination.
In connection with that fact of omission, we must appraise the testimony offered to show the intentional limitation. Besides the language quoted in note 4 supra,
which relates particularly to the court's instructions, other
relevant evideitce of such intention is found only in the
testimony of the commissioners. They made these statements as to their intentions:
Commissioner Wells: "There was nothing said
about the ,number and nothing was said about the
number on the panel. .

.

. We had no intention of

placing more than one negro on the panel.
we did, that we had finished with the negro.
was the suggestion of the others and what
Adams thought about the selection of the
jury.....

When
That
Judge
grand

Judge Adams did not tell us to put one

negro or five negroes on the grand jury. Yes, we
just understood to see that negroes had representation on the grand jury, and we went out to see this
particular one because we did not know him ...
Among the white people whose names might go on
the grand jury, unless I knew them personally and
knew their qualifications, we went out and talked to
them. No, we did not discriminate against a white
man or a negro. I attempted not to."
Commissioner Tennant: "We three did not go to
see any other negroes, that is the only one. I did
not have any intention of putting more than one on
the list; I could not think of anybody; I would have
if I could have thought of another one, and putting
one on."
Commissioner Douglas: "Yes, sir, there were
other negroes' names mentioned besides the one we
selected; we did not go talk to them; we liked this
one, and our intentions were to get just one negro on
the grand jury; that is right. No, I did not have
any intention of placing more than one negro on the
grand jury. . . . We never .agreed to select any
certain number, but when we found one with all 'the

AKINS v. TEXAS.
,98

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

qualifications of a grand juror we felt like that was
satisfactory representation. . . . No, sir, we did not
have in mind to put any set number of representatives of the various races. . . We did not agree to
put eleven negroes and one white man on, no. That
is right, all that we were endeavoring to get a fair and
impartial grand jury without any discrimination
against any race on earth. We did not have in mind,
or the other commissioners, to put any set number
on of any race, white, yellow or what-not."
A careful examination of these statements in connection with all the other evidence leaves us unconvinced that
the commissioners deliberately and intentionally limited
the number of Negroes on the grand jury list. The judge
who heard the witnesses on the motion to quash did not
find that type of discrimination. The law of their state,
the instructions of the judge, their oath of office required
them to choose prospective jurors on their statutory
qualifications and without regard to their color or the
number of representatives of various races who might
appear upon the Uist. We cannot say the commissioners
violated these obligations.
This conclusion makes it unnecessary to decide whether
a purposeful limitation of jurors by race to the approximate proportion that the eligible jurymen of the race so
limited bears to the total eligibles is invalid under the
Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE concurs in the result.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE

and MR. JUSTICE BLACK dissent.

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY, dissenting.

The equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment entitles every person, whose life, liberty or property
is in issue, to the benefits of grand and petit juries chosen

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

without regard to race, color or creed. This constitutional
principle is a fundamental tenet of the American faith in
the' jury system. The absence of such a principle would
give free rein to those who wittingly or otherwise act to
undermine the very foundations of this system and would
make juries ready weapons for officials to oppress those
accused individuals who by. chance are numbered among
unpopular or inarticulate minorities.
The State of Texas in this instance appears to have
made a sincere effort to obey this constitutional mandate
in selecting the grand jury which indicted the Negro petitioner. Until this Court's decision in 1942 in Hill v. Texas,
316 U. S. 400, no Negro ever served on a grand jury in
Dallas County, Texas, where this case arose. In an attempt to comply with that decision the three jury commissioners were careful here to appoint one Negro to the
sixteen-member grand jury panel; he qualified and served
on the twelve-man jury.
Thus it cannot be said that
Texas has systematically and completely excluded Negroes from the grand jury. Cf. Norris v. Alabama, 294
U. S. 587; Pierre v. Louisiana, 306 U. S. 354; Smith v.
Texas, 311 U. S.128; Hill v. Texas, supra. But that fact
alone does not guarantee compliance with the Fourteenth
Amendment, however commendable may be the attempt.
Racial limitation no less than racial exclusion in the formation of juries is an evil condemned by the equal protection clause. "The Amendment nullifies sophisticated as
well as simple-minded modes of discrimination." Lane v.
Wilson, 307 U. S.268, 275. This case must therefore be
reviewed with that in mind.
Petitioner, as a Negro, "cannot claim, as matter of right,
that his race shall have a representation on the jury,"
Neal v. Delaware,103 U. S.370,394, inasmuch as "a mixed
jury in a particular case is not essential to the equal protection of the laws," Virginia v. Rives, 100 U. 8. 313, 323.
But petitioner, as a human being endowed with all the

AKINS v. TEXAS.
398

MURPHY, J., dissenting.

rights specified in the Constitution, can claim that no

racial or religious exclusion, limitation or other form of
discrimination shall enter into the selection of any jury
which indicts or tries him.
It follows that the State of Texas, in insisting upon one
Negro representative on the grand jury panel, has respected no right belonging to petitioner. On the contrary, to the extent that this insistence amounts to a
definite limitation of Negro grand jurors, a clear constitutional right has been directly invaded. The equal protection clause guarantees petitioner not only the right to
have Negroes considered as prospective veniremen but
also the right to have them considered without numerical
or proportional limitation. If a jury is to be fairly chosen
from a cross section of the community it must be done
without limiting the number of persons of a particular
color, racial background or faith-all of which are irrelevant factors in setting qualifications for jury service. This
may in a particular instance result in the selection of one,
six, twelve or even no Negroes on a jury panel. The important point, however, is that the selections must in no
way be limited or restricted by such irrelevant factors.
In this case the State of Texas has candidly admitted
before us "that none of the three [jury commissioners]
intended to place more than one Negro upon the grand
jury drawn by them." Commissioner Wells testified that
"We had no intention of placing more than one Negro on
the panel. When we did that we had finished with the
Negro." In the words of Commissioner Tennant, "We
three did not go to see any other Negroes, that is the only
one. I did not have any intention of putting more than
one on the list." Finally, as Commissioner Douglas
stated, "Yes, sir, there were other Negroes' names mentioned besides the one we selected; we did not go talk
to them; we liked this one, and our intentions were to get
just one Negro on the grand jury; that is right. No, I

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Syllabus.

325 U. S.

did not have any intention of placing more than one Negro
on the grand jury."
Clearer proof of intentional and deliberate limitation on
the basis of color would be difficult to produce. The commissioners' declarations that they did not intend to discriminate and their other inconsistent statements cited by
the Court fade into insignificance beside the admitted and
obvious fact that they intended to and did limit the number of Negroes on the jury panel. By limiting the number
to one they thereby excluded the possibility that two or
more Negroes might be among the persons qualified to
serve. All those except the one Negro were required to be
of white color. At the same time, by insisting upon one
Negro, they foreclosed the possibility of choosing sixteen
white men on the panel. They refused, in brief, to disregard the factor of color in selecting the jury personnel.
To that extent they have disregarded petitioner's right
to the equal protection of the laws. To that extent they
have ignored the ideals of the jury system. Our affirmance
of this judgment thus tarnishes the fact that we of this
nation are one people undivided in ability or freedom by
differences in race, color or creed.

BOWLES, PRICE ADMINISTRATOR, v. SEMINOLE
ROCK & SAND CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 914. Argued April 26, 27, 1945.-Decided June 4, 1945.
1. Under Rule (i) of § 1499.163 (a) (2) of Maximum Price Regulation
No. 188, issued by the Administrator of the Office of Price Administration under § 2 (a) of the Emergency Price Control Act
of 1942, a seller's ceiling price for an article which was actually delivered during March 1942 is the highest price charged for the
article so delivered, regardless of when the sale or charge was made.
P. 416.

