HUNT v. CRUMBOCH.
Statement of the Case.

be said to be aiding and abetting a violation of the Act and
its immunity would be lost. The facts of this case,
however, do 'not allow such conclusions to be drawn.
I would therefore affirm the judgment of the court
below.
HUNT ET AL., CO-PARTNERS TRADING AS HUNT'S
MOTOR FREIGHT & FOOD PRODUCTS TRANS-

PORT, v. CRUMBOCH

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 570. Argued March 2, 1945.-Decided. June 18, 1945.
1. Refusal of a labor union to admit to membership the employees
of an interstate motor carrier, and refusal of members of the union
to accept employment by the carrier-even though as a result
it was impossible for the carrier to continue in business--held not
a violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act, as amended. P. 823.
2. That the refusal of members of the union to accept employment
by the carrier stemmed from personal antagonism toward a partner
in the carrier firm-arising out of the killing of a union man, of
which the partner was acquitted---did not render such refusal
a violation of the Sherman Act. P. 824.
3. The fact that the refusal of the union members to accept employment was related to the business of an interstate carrier did not
make such refusal a violation of the Sherman Act. P, 825.
4. A labor union's breach of duty to employees in a collective bargaining group is not, of itself, a violation of the Sherman Act.
P. 826.
5. The Sherman Act does not afford a remedy for every tort committed by or against persons engaged in interstate commerce.
P. 826.
6. The question whether the conduct of the union and its members is
actionable under state law is not here involved. P. 826.
'143 F. 2d 902, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 323

U. S. 704, to review the affirmance of a

judgment for the defendants, 47 F. Supp. 571, in a suit for
an injunction and treble damages under the Sherman Act.

822

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Messrs. Hirsh W. Stalber# and Peter P. Zion for petitioners.
Mr. William A. Gray, with whom Messrs. Francis
Thomas Anderson and Walter Stein were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUsTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
The question here is whether an organization of laboring men violated the Sherman Act, as amended, 26 Stat.
209, 38 Stat. 730, by refusing to admit to membership
petitioner's employees, and by refusing to sell their services to petitioner. thereby making it impossible for
petitioner profitably to continue in business.
For about fourteen years prior to 1939, the petitioner,
a business partnership engaged in motor trucking, carried
freight under a contract with the Great Atlantic & Pacific
Tea Co. (A & P). Eighty-five percent of the merchandise
thus hauled by petitioner was interstate, from and to
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The respondent union,
composed of drivers and helpers, was affiliated with other
A. F. of L. unions whose members worked at loading and
hauling of freight by.motor truck. In 1937, the respondent union called a strike of the truckers and haulers of
A & P in Philadelphia for the purpose of enforcing a
closed shop. The petitioner, refusing to unionize its
business, attempted to operate during the strike. Much
violence occurred. One of the union men was killed near
union headquarters, and a member of the petitioner partnership was tried for the homicide and acquitted. A & P
and the union entered into a closed-shop agreement,
whereupon all contract haulers working for A & P, including the petitioner, were notified that their employees must
join and become members of the union. All of the other
contractor haulers except petitioner either joined the
union or made closed-shop agreements with it. The

HUNT v. CRUMBOCH.
821

Opinion of the Court.

union, however, refused to negotiate with the petitioner,
and declined to admit any of its employees to membership.
Although petitioner's services had been satisfactory, A &
P, at the union's instigation, cancelled its contract with
petitioner in accordance with the obligations of its closedshop agreement with the union. Later, the petitioner
obtained a contract with a different company, but again
at the union's instigation, and upon the consummation

of a closed-shop contract by that company with the union,
petitioner lost that contract and business. Because of
the union's refusal to negotiate with the petitioner and
to accept petitioner's employees as members, the petitioner was unable to obtain any further hauling contracts
in Philadelphia. The elimination of the petitioner's
service did not in any manner affect the interstate operations of A & P or other companies.
The petitioner then instituted this suit in a federal
district court against respondents, the union and its representatives, praying for an injunction and asking for
treble damages. Demurrers to the complaint were overruled, the case was tried, findings of fact were made, and
the district court rendered a judgment for the respondents
on the ground that petitioner had failed to prove a cause
of action under the Anti-trust laws. 47 F. Supp. 571.
The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed, holding that tLfact that respondents' actions had caused petitioner to go
out of business was not such a restraint of interstate comnerce as would be actionable under the Sherman and
Clayton Acts. 143 F. 2d 902. We granted certiorari
because of the questions involved concerning the responsibility of labor unions under the Anti-trust laws.
The "destruction" of petitioner's business resulted from
the fact that the union members, acting in concert, refused to accept employment with the petitioner, and refused to admit to their a.sociation anyone who worked for
petitioner. The petitioner's loss of business is therefore

824

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

analogous to the case of a manufacturer selling goods in
interstate commerce who fails in business because union
members refuse to work for him. Had a group of petitioner's business competitors conspired and combined to
suppress petitioner's business by refusing to sell goods and
services to it, such a combination would have violated the
Sherman Act. Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S.
291, 312; Fashion Originators' Guild v. Federal Trade
Commission, 312 U. S. 457. A labor union which aided
and abetted such a group would have been equally guilty.
Allen Bradley Co. v. Local Union No. 3, ante, p. 797. The
only combination here, however, was one of workers alone
and what they refused to sell petitioner was their labor.
It is not a violation of the Sherman Act for laborers
in combination to refuse to work. They can sell or not
sell their labor as they please, and upon such terms and
conditions as they choose, without infringing the Antitrust laws. Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469,
502-503. A worker is privileged under congressional enactments, acting either alone or in concert with his fellow
workers, to associate or to decline to associate with other
workers, to accept, refuse to accept, or to terminate a relationship of employment, and his labor is not to be treated
as "a commodity or article of commerce." Clayton Act,
38 Stat. 730, 731; Norris-LaGuardia Act, 47 Stat. 70; see
also American Steel Foundries v. Tri-City Council, 257
U. S. 184, 209. It was the exercise of these rights that
created the situation which caused the petitioner to lose
its hauling contracts and its business.
It is argued that their exercise falls within the condemnation of the Sherman Act, because the union members'
refusal to accept employment was due to personal antagonism against the petitioner arising out of the killing of a
union man. But Congress in the Sherman Act and the
legislation which followed it manifested no purpose to
make any,kind of refusal to accept personal employment

HUNT v. CRUMBOCH.
821

Opinion of the Court.

a violation of the Anti-trust laws. Such an application
of those laws would be a complete departure from their
spirit and purpose. Cf. Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader,
supra, 512; Allen Bradley v. Local Union No. 3, supra.
Moreover "So long as a union acts in its self-interest and
does not combine with non-labor groups, the licit and the
illicit under ยง 20 are not to be distinguished by any judgment regarding the wisdom or unwisdom, the rightness or
wrongness, the selfishness or unselfishness of the end of
which the particular union activities are the means."
United States v. Hutcheson, 312 U. S. 219, 232.1
It is further argued that the concerted refusal of union
members to work for petitioner must be held to violate
the Sherman Act because petitioner's business was "an instrumentality of interstate commerce." See United States
v. Trans-MissouriFreight Assn., 166 U. S. 290, 312. Acceptance of this contention would imply that workers do
not possess the same privileges to choose or reject employment with interstate carriers as with other businesses.
The entire history of congressional legislation, including
the Railway Labor Act, 48 Stat. 1185, belies this
argument.
Finally, it is faintly suggested that our decisions in
Steele v. L. & N. R. Co., 323 U. S. 192; Tunstall v. Brother'Dorchy v. Kansas, 272 U. S. 306, 311, cited here in dissent, has
no relevancy to the issues before us. In that case Dorchy was convicted of calling a strike to enforce a stale claim contrary to state law.
He attacked the state law on the ground that the right to strike was
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment. This .Court rejected
Dorchy's constitutional contention with the statement that "Neither
the common law, nor the Fourteenth Amendment, confers the absolute
right to strike." The Court had no reason in the Dorchy case to
consider the Clayton Act, which as we decided in the Hutcheson case
does recognize an absolute right of employees to work or cease working according to their own judgments. That which Congress has
recognized as lawful, this Court has no constitutional power to declare
unlawful, by arguing that Congress has accorded too much power to
labor organizations.

826

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
ROBERTS,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

hood, 323 U. S. 210, and Wallace Corp. v. Labor Board, 323
U. S. 248, require that we hold that respondents' conduct
violated the Sherman Act. Those cases stand for the principle that a bargaining agent owes a duty not to discriminate unfairly against any of the group it purports to represent. But if the record showed discrimination against
employees here, it would not even tend to show a violation
of the Sherman Act. Congress has indicated no purpose
to make a union's breach of duty to employees in a collective bargaining group an infraction of the Sherman
Act.
The controversy in the instant case, between a union
and an employer, involves nothing more than a dispute
over employment, and the withholding of labor services.
It cannot therefore be said to violate the Sherman Act, as
amended. That Act does not purport to afford remedies
for all torts committed by or against persons engaged in
interstate commerce. "The maintenance in our federal
system of a proper distribution between state and national
governments of police authority and of remedies private
and public for public wrongs is of far-reaching importance. An intention to disturb the balance is not lightly
to be imputed to Congress." Apex Hosiery Co. v. Leader,
310 U. S. 469, 513. Whether the respondents' conduct
amounts to an actionable wrong subjecting them to liability for damages under Pennsylvania law is not our
concern.
Affirmed.

MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS.
I think the judgment should be reversed.
The issue presented in this case, in my judgment, lies
wholly outside and beyond any precedent to be found in
the decisions of this court, and certainly so as to Apex
Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469, on which the court
relies.

HUNT v. CRUMBOCH.
821

ROBERTS,

J.,

dissenting.

There was a labor dispute as to unionization between
motor carriers and the union representing employes. The
record demonstrates that the dispute involved in this case
was no part of that labor dispute but an off-shoot of it;
not involving wages, unionization, closed shop, hours or
other conditions of work.
The union, in an effort to organize the employes of motor carriers, resorted to a strike. The petitioners resisted
unionization. During the ensuing disorder a man was
shot. The union officials attributed the killing to one of
the petitioners. In fact he was acquitted by a jury. The
respondents decided to punish him. The respondents
having succeeded in unionizing the industry in Philadelphia the petitioners could continue in their business of
interstate carriage only by having their men jointhe union
and by signing a closed-shop contract. The union determined to punish petitioners by refusing to sign a contract
with them and by forbidding the members of the union to
work for them. There is no suggestion in the record that
they did so because of any labor conditions or considerations, or that petitioners' men would not join the union,
or that union men would not work with them, if they did
join. It is hardly an accurate description of their attitude
to say that the union men decided not to sell their labor
to the petitioners. They intended to drive petitioners out
of business as interstate motor carriers, and they succeeded
in so doing.
The petitioners, for fourteen years, had been carriers of
merchandise in interstate commerce. The union compelled A. & P., their principal patron, to break its contract
with them and to discharge them from further serving it.
The union frustrated efforts of petitioners to obtain
contracts with other shippers.
The petitioners had been, and were at the time, in competition with other similar interstate carriers. The sole
purpose of the respondents was to drive petitioners out of

828

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON, J., dissenting.

325 U.

S.

business in that field. This they accomplished. Thus
they reduced competition between interstate carriers by
eliminating one competitor from the field. The conspiracy, therefore, was clearly within the denunciation of the
Sherman Act, as one intended, and effective, to lessen
competition in commerce, and-not within any immunity
conferred by the Clayton Act.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON join in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON, dissenting.
The Court concedes that if business competitors alone
or in combination with labor had conspired to drive petitioners out of business by refusing goods or services, competitors and labor organization would have violated the
Sherman Act. The only question then is whether respondent is exempted from the prohibition of the Act. It
is hard to see how this union is excused from the terms
of the Act when in the Allen Bradley case we hold that
labor unions even though furthering their members' interests as wage earners violate the Act when they combine
with business to do the things prohibited by the Act.
There, too, labor performed its part of the conspiracy by
denying or threatening to deny labor to employers. But
in that case we hold that no absolute immunity is granted
by the statute, and that because of its purpose and its association, the labor union violated the Act. Here too the
purpose of the respondent union is such as to remove the
union's activities from the protection of the Clayton and
Norris-LaGuardia Acts.
We say in the Allen Bradley case that, since a labor
dispute existed, the refusal of the union to work would
not have violated the Sherman Act if it had acted alone.
In that case, the Court reviews fully the conflicting policies
expressed in those Acts intended to preserve competition

HUNT v. CRUMBOCH.
821

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

and, in those which permit labor organizations to pursue
their objectives. Those statutes which restricted the application of the Sherman Act against unions were intended
only to shield the legitimate objectives of such organizations, not to give them a sword to use with unlimited immunity. The social interest in allowing workers to better
their condition by their combined bargaining power was
thought to outweigh the otherwise undesirable restriction
on competition which all successful union activity necessarily entails. But there is no social interest served by
union activities which are directed not to the advantage
of union members but merely to capricious and retaliatory
misuse of the power which unions have simply to impose
their will on an employer.
The Apex case is authority only for the principle that
a labor organization which employs its power for recognized purposes does not violate the Sherman Act, unless
its purpose is to affect and it does affect competition in
the marketing of goods and services. That case says nothing of the direct destruction of competition in interstate
commerce, as an end in itself, which the respondent union
here effectuated. It explicitly declares that to some extent labor unions are subject to the Sherman Act. Apex
Hosiery Co. v. Leader, 310 U. S. 469, 489. Much of what
we said in American Medical Assn. v. United States, 317
U. S. 519, is applicable here, although. that case did not
involve a labor union: "The petitioners did not represent
present or prospective employes. Their purpose was to
prevent anyone from taking employment under Group
Health. They were interested in, the terms and conditions of the employment only in the sense that they desired wholly to prevent Group Health from functioning by
having any employes. Their objection was to its method
of doing business.- Obviously there was no dispute between Group Health and the doctors it employed or might
employ in which petitioners were either directly or indi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

325 U.S.

rectly interested." And in that case, we held the Clayton
and Norris-LaGuardia Acts inapplicable and sustained
convictions under the Sherman Act. It can hardly be
said that merely because respondent is a labor union, for
that reason alone a labor dispute is involved in the present
case.

Respondents contend that, in any event, their conduct
is not prohibited by the Sherman Act because prices
within the field were not affected and the public did not
suffer. AppalachianCoals v. UnitedStates, 288 U. S. 344,
and similar cases refusing to apply the Sherman Act held
that certain practices were permissible because they did
not restrain competition in the industry as a whole, although they did restrain competition among the parties
to the agreement. But there is a difference between being a party to consensual restriction of competition within
a segment of an industry and being forced out of the industry entirely. Competition within the field has been lessened by the elimination of one of the companies engaged
therein. Of course it cannot be said on this record that
the destruction of petitioner's business substantially af-fected market conditions in the services which petitioner
was engaged in rendering. Cf. Apex Hosiery Co. v.
Leader, supra, at 512. But, even assuming that such an
effect is necessary, the Court does not distinguish between
the situation presented in this case and a case in which a
union by similar methods and with similar motives would
drive out of business a company whose demise would
affect prices in the field.
With this decision, the labor movement has come full
circle. The working man has struggled long, the fight
has been filled with hatred, and conflict has been dangerous, but now workers may not be deprived of their livelihood merely because their employers oppose and they
favor unions. Labor has won other rights as well, unemployment compensation, old-age benefits and, what is

HUNT v. CRUMBOCH.
821

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

most important and the basis of all its gains, the recognition that the opportunity to earn his support is not alone
the concern of the individual but is the problem which
all organized societies must contend with and conquer if
they are to survive. This Court now sustains the claim
of a union to the right to deny participation in the economic world to an employer simply because the union dislikes him. This Court permits to employees the same
arbitrary dominance over the economic sphere which they
control that labor so long, so bitterly and so rightly
asserted should belong to no man.
Strikes aimed at compelling the employer to yield to
union demands are not within the Sherman Act. Here
the employer has yielded, and the union has achieved the
end to which all legitimate union pressure is directed and
limited. The union cannot consistently with the Sherman Act refuse to enjoy the fruits of its victory and deny
peace terms to an employer who has unconditionally
surrendered.
Mr. Justice Brandeis, for a unanimous Court, held that
a union cannot lawfully strike for an unlawful purpose.
"The right to carry on business--be it called liberty or
property-has value. To interfere. with this right without just cause is unlawful. The fact that the injury was
inflicted by a strike is sometimes a justification. But a
strike may be illegal because of its purpose, however
orderly the manner in which it is conducted. To collect
a stale claim due to a fellow member of- the union who
was formerly employed in the business is not a permissible
purpose." Dorchy v. Kansas, 272 U. S. 306, 311. No
more permissible is an exaction of privately-determined
punishment for alleged murder. And being unlawful,
union activities of this kind are not protected by the
Clayton and Norris-LaGuardia Acts.
The CHIEF JusTIcE and MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join
in this opinion.

