NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.

507

Syllabus.

NORTH CAROLINA ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
NO. 560.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH
CAROLINA.*

Argued April 23, 24, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.
1. An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission, under § 13 (4)
of the Interstate Commerce Act, authorized railroads in North
Carolina to establish and maintain intrastate passenger coach fares
at levels not lower than interstate fares, which in effect increased
the state-prescribed basic fare of 1.65 cents per mile to the interstate level of 2.2 cents per mile. Held that the order was not
based on adequate findings supported by evidence, and that the
District Court should have enjoined its enforcement. Pp. 509, 520.
2. The Interstate Commerce Commission is empowered to nullify
a state-prescribed intrastate rate only When the Commission, after
full hearing, finds that such rate causes (1) undue or unreasonable
advantage, preference, or prejudice as between persons or localities
in intrastate commerce on the one hand and interstate commerce
on the other, or (2) undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination
against interstate commerce; and the Commission is without
authority to set aside a state-prescribed intrastate rate unless there
are clear findings, supported by evidence, of each element essential
to its exercise of that power. Pp. 510, 511.
3. A mere finding that interstate passengers paid higher fares than
intrastate passengers for the same service does not adequately support a statewide order nullifying a state-prescribed rate as unduly
prejudicial to interstate passengers and requiring all intrastate
passengers to pay the higher intrastate rate. Pp. 512, 514.
4. The findings of the Commission that the 2.2 cents interstate rate
was just and reasonable; that the same trains in general carried
both interstate and intrastate passengers; and that the railroads
affected would have received $525,000 more annual income from
the passengers they carried had the 2.2 cents rate been applied, did
not support the conclusion that the intrastate traffic was not con*Together with No. 561, Davis, Economic Stabilization Director,
by Bowles, Price Administrator,v. United States et al., also on appeal
from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of North Carolina.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

tributing its fair share of the revenue required to enable the railroads
to render adequate and efficient transportation service, and did
not support the order on the ground that the intrastate rates
discriminated against interstate commerce. P. 514.
5. The power of the Commission to require a State to raise intrastate
rates depends on whether the intrastate traffic is contributing its
fair share of the earnings required to meet maintenance and
operating costs and to yield a fair return on the value of property
directed to the transportation service, both interstate and intrastate.
P. 520.
6. The Commission can not require intrastate rates to be raised above
a reasonable level. P. 520.
7. Where, as here, there is evidence from which the Commission could
have found that a rate of 2.2 cents was far above a reasonable rate
level for the intrastate coach traffic of the railroads, the Commission
must make findings on that issue, which findings are supported by
evidence, before entering an order supplanting the state authority.
Without such findings supported by evidence, the Commission was
not authorized to find that the intrastate rates discriminated against
interstate commerce. P. 520.
56 F. Supp. 606, reversed.

from a decree of a district court of three judges
denying an injunction and dismissing the complaint in a
suit to enjoin and set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
APPEALS

Messrs. J. C. B. Ehringhausand F. C. Hillyer for appellants in No. 560. Messrs. Richard H. Field, David F.
Cavers and Malcolm D. Miller submitted for appellants
is No. 561.
Mr. J. Stanley Payne, with whom Mr. Daniel W.
Knowlton was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce
Commission, and Mr. Charles Clark, with whom Mr.
Frank W. Gwathmey was on the brief, for the Aberdeen &
Rockfish -Railroad Co. et al., appellees.
MR. JusTIcE

BLAcK delivered the opinion of the Court.

The North Carolina State Utilities Commission brought
suit to enjoin enforcement of an order of the Interstate

NORTH CAROLINA V. UNITED STATES.
507

509

Opinion of the Court.

Commerce Commission. 258 I. C. C. 133. The Federal
Economic Stabilization Director acting through the Price
Administrator sought and was granted the right to intervene as a party plaintiff. A federal district court of three
judges denied the injunction, 56 F. Supp. 606, and the case
is here on direct appeal under § 210 of the Judicial Code.
This clash between state and federal agencies came
about because the State Commission and the Interstate
Commerce Commission each claimed the paramount power to fix railroad rates in North Carolina. The North Carolina Commission ordered railroads doing business in the
state to charge no more than 1.65 cents per mile for carrying intrastate coach passengers from one point in the
state to another. Despite this State Commission order,
the Interstate Commerce Commission authorized the same
railroads to charge 2.2 cents per mile for the same type of
carriage.'
The Interstate Commerce Commission asserted its
power to prescribe these purely intrastate rates under
§ 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act. 49 U. S. C.
§ 13 (4). That section, which is set forth below, 2 empowI There is a corresponding conflict which involves round trip coach
rates. The questions presented are the same with regard to one
way and round trip rates, and we shall therefore consider both of
them by reference to the one way rate.
2
"Whenever in any such investigation the Commission, after full
hearing, finds that any such rate, fare, charge, classification, regulation, or practice causes any undue or unreasonable advantage, preference, or prejudice as between persons or localities in intrastate
commerce on the one hand and interstate or foreign commerce on the
other hand, or any undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination
against interstate or foreign commerce, which is hereby forbidden and
declared to be unlawful, it shall prescribe the rate, fare, or charge, or
the maximum or minimum, or maximum and minimum, thereafter
to be charged, and the classification, regulation, or practice thereafter
to be observed, in such manner as, in its judgment, will remove such
advantage, preference, prejudice, or discrimination. Such rates, fares,
charges, classifications, regulations, and practices shall be observed

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

ers the Interstate Commerce Commission to prescribe intrastate railroad rates under certain conditions, despite
conflicting state orders as to the same rates. The conditions that Congress imposed as a prerequisite to Commission action are that the Commission shall hold a "full hearing" and find that the state-prescribed rates either caused
(1) undue or unreasonable advantage, preference, or prejudice, as between persons or localities in intrastate commerce on the one hand, and interstate commerce on the
other hand, or (2) undue, unreasonable, or unjust discrimination against interstate commerce. The Commission
held hearings which are challenged on various grounds
as falling short of "full" hearings. It made findings and
concluded that the 1.65 state rate was unduly prejudicial
to interstate passengers, and that the state rate constituted an undue and unjust discrimination against interstate commerce. These conclusions are attacked on the
ground that they are supported neither by findings nor
evidence. The crucial question involved in all these contentions is whether the indispensable prerequisites to the
exercise of the Federal Commission's power over intrastate
rates have been shown to exist with sufficient certainty.
Before making any detailed reference to the hearings, findings or evidence, it would be helpful to set out certain
guiding principles which lead us to a resolution of the
crucial question.
Section 13 (4) does not relate to the Commission's power
to regulate interstate transportation as such. As to interstate regulation, the Commission is granted the broadest powers to prescribe rates and other transportation
details. See United States v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 323
U. S. 612. No such breadth of authority is granted to the
Commission over purely intrastate rates. Neither § 13
while in effect by the carriers parties to such proceeding affected
thereby, the law of any State or the decision or order of any State
authority to the contrary notwithstanding." 49 U. S. C. § 13 (4).

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

511

Opinion of the Court.

(4), nor any other Congressional legislation, indicates a
purpose to attempt wholly to deprive the states of their
primary authority to regulate intrastate rates. Since the
enactment of § 13 (4), as before its enactment, a state's
power over intrastate rates is exclusive up to the point
where its action would bring about the prejudice or discrimination prohibited by that section. When this
point-not always easy to mark-is reached, and not until
then, can the Interstate Commerce Commission nullify a
state-prescribed rate.
Intrastate transportation is primarily the concern of
the state. The power of the Interstate Commerce Commission with reference to such intrastate rates is dominant
only so far as necessary to alter rates which injuriously
affect interstate transportation. American Express Co.
v. South Dakota, 244 U. S. 617, 625. A scrupulous regard for maintaining the power of the state in this field
has caused this Court to require that Interstate Commerce
Commission orders giving precedence to federal rates must
meet "a high standard of certainty." Illinois Central R.
Co. v. Public Utilities Commission, 245 U. S. 493, 510.
Before the Commission can nullify a state rate, justification for the "exercise of the federal power must clearly
appear." Floridav. United States, 282 U. S. 194, 211-212.
See also Yonkers v. United States, 320 U. S. 685. And
the intention to interfere with the state's rate-making
function is not to be presumed, Arkansas Commission v.
Chicago, R. I. & P. R. Co., 274 U. S. 597, 603; nor must
its intention in this respect be left in serious doubt. Illinois Commerce Comm'n v. Thomson, 318 U. S. 675, 684685. The foregoing cases also stand for the principle that
the Interstate Commerce Commission is without authority
to supplant a state-prescribed intrastate rate unless there
are clear findings, supported by evidence, of each element
essential to the exercise of that power by the Commission.
We shall now take up the two grounds upon which the
Commission set aside the state order.

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

Prejudice Against Interstate Passengers. On this
aspect of the case the Commission's findings were that
the interstate 2.2 cents rate was just and reasonable; that
the accommodations afforded interstate and intrastate
passengers in North Carolina were "substantially similar"; that in general these passengers traveled in the
same trains and in the same cars; and from these, it concluded that since interstate passengers were forced to
pay higher fares than intrastate passengers, there was an
undue and unreasonable disadvantage and prejudice of
interstate passengers. On these findings it issued the
statewide order requiring all intrastate passengers to pay
2.2 cents per mile. We think these findings failed to give
adequate support to the order.
In effect, the Commission's holding was, and its argument is here, that § 13 (4) automatically requires complete uniformity in intrastate and interstate rates. That
argument is in short that under our national transportation system interstate travelers and intrastate travelers use
the same trains; for a state to fix a lower intrastate rate
than the interstate rate is therefore an undue advantage
to the intrastate passengers and an unfair discrimination
against the interstate passengers. If Congress intended
to permit such an oversimplified form of proof to establish
"unjust discrimination," then its requirement of a "full
hearing" was mere surplusage. In fact, it need have provided for no hearing at all since it could have easily stated
in its legislation that intrastate rates shall never be lower
than interstate rates. The argument of the Commission
in this regard runs counter to the language of § 13 (4),
and would call for a declaration by us that Congress intended by this section to reverse the entire transportation
history of the nation. The clause about "persons" and
"localities" is, as the legislative history shows, a practical
enactment into law of a decision of this Court in the

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

511

Opinion of the Court.

"Shreveport" case.' Houston,E. & W. T. R. Co. v. United
States, 234 U. S. 342. In the "Shreveport" case the Commission found from evidence that certain Texas intrastate
rates to Texas points were far below the interstate rates
charged to carry Lhe same types of freight from Shreveport,
Louisiana. The distances and conditions of both transportations were found to be substantially the same. The
Court sustained the Commission's conclusion that the
Texas intrastate rates constituted an unfair discrimination against Shreveport and persons doing business there.
The Commission's order was not statewide, but only required removal of the discrimination against the particular localities and business groups affected by the
discrimination.
In Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co.,
257 U. S. 563, 579, 580, this Court refused to sustain a
Commission order nullifying all state passenger rates because of a discrimination against interstate travelers and
against localities. The Commission had found there as
here that state and interstate passengers rode on the same
trains in the same car and perhaps in the same seats. It
had found there, as it did here, that this constituted an
undue discrimination against interstate passengers, and
it issued a general sweeping order against all intrastate
s The House Committee reporting this bill said with reference to the
provisions of § 13 (4): "After such hearing the Commission shall make
such findings and orders as may in its judgment tend to remove any
undue advantage, preference, or prejudice as between persons or
localities in state and interstate or foreign commerce. The provision
practically enacts into law the decision of the Supreme Court in the
so-called 'Shreveport' case. Any undue burden upon interstate or
foreign commerce is forbidden and declared to be unlawful. It is
believed that the provisions of this section will have a beneficial and
harmonizing effect, and will tend to reduce the number of so-called
'Shreveport' cases, while at the same time recognizing the regulatory
bodies of the several States." Report No. 456, 66th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 20.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

passenger rates. This Court pointed out that the order
went far beyond the principles announced in the Shreveport case, and declined to sustain the statewide order on
this phase of the case. See also Floridav. United States,
282 U. S. 194, 208. So here, the finding that interstate
passengers paid higher fares than intrastate passengers
for the same facilities is an inadequate support for nullifying state rates on the ground that they constitute unjust
discrimination against interstate passengers.
Discrimination Against Interstate Commerce. One
ground of the Commission's order was that the intrastate
rates discriminated against interstate commerce as such.
The findings of the Commission on which this conclusion
rested were that the 2.2 cents interstate rate was just
and reasonable; the same trains in general carried both
interstate and intrastate passengers; the North Carolina
railroads to which the intrastate rates were applied,
would have received $525,000 more annual income from
the passengers they carried had the 2.2 cents interstate
rate been applied; from this the conclusion was reached
that intrastate traffic was "not contributing its fair share
of the revenue required to enable respondents to render
adequate and efficient transportation service."
This conclusion of the Commission, if based on findings
supported by evidence, would justify its order. For in
Floridav. United States, 292 U. S.1, 5, we said that § 13 (4)
authorized the Commissi6n "to raise intrastate rates so
that the intrastate traffic may produce its fair share of
the earnings required to meet maintenance and operating
costs and to yield a fair return on the value of property devoted to the transportation service, both interstate and
intrastate." We sustained the Commission's order there
because it was based on findings supported by evidence
that the intrastate rate "was abnormally low and less than
reasonably compensatory . . . 'insufficient under all the
circumstances and conditions to cover the full cost of the

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

515

Opinion of the Court.

service.'" Neither in its formal findings nor in its discussion of the facts did the Commission indicate that the
North Carolina railroad rates here involved were less than
compensatory or insufficient to cover the full cost of service. Nor did they find that maintenance of these rates was
necessary to the operation of a nationally efficient and
adequate railway system.4
4 In Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S.
563, this Court sustained a statewide Commission order raising intrastate rates. Section 13 (4) in the context of the 1920 Transportation
Act, 41 Stat. 456, as it then existed, was construed as requiring the
Commission to prescribe rates sufficient "to enable the carriers as
a whole, or in groups selected by the Commission, to earn an aggregate annual net railway operating income equal to a fair return
on the aggregate value of the railway property used in transportation."
584-585. The 1920 Act, however, treated the national railway system
as a unit. The net returns for any particular railroad were limited
by the Act. All above this limitation went into a common pool to be
distributed for the use of weak railroads. In this way, all railway
income inured to the benefit of all the railroads individually and collectively to aid in "maintaining an adequate railway system." This
Court has said that Congress adopted the pooling provisions because
"it was not clear that the people would tolerate greatly increased
rates (although no higher than necessary to produce the required
revenues of weak lines) if thereby prosperous competitors earned an
unreasonably large return upon the value of their properties." New
England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184, 191. But Congress in 1933,
48 Stat. 211, repealed this part of the 1920 Act; the income pooling
system was abandoned; the rule of rate making was re-written, and
while the Commission was to give consideration to the need of adequate and efficient railway transportation service at the lowest cost
consistent with the furnishing of such service, and to the need of
revenue sufficient to enable the carriers under honest, economical
and efficient management to provide such service, the rates were no
longer to be treated on a national basis as though all railroads constituted one system. House Report No. 193, 73rd Cong., 1st Sess.,
pp. 30-31. Railroads were to be treated on an individual basis.
Abandonment of the profit pooling system made this necessary to
carry out the continuing Congressional purpose to prevent "an unreasonably large return upon the value of their properties." The
Commission recognized this legislative change in rate-making policies

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

But the question posed by the Commission's conclusion
was whether the particular North Carolina railroads were
obtaining from North Carolina's intrastate passenger rates
their fair part of such funds as were required to enable
these particular railroads to render adequate and efficient
service. The Commission made no findings as to what
contribution from intrastate traffic would constitute a fair
proportion of the railroad's total income. It made no
finding as to what amount of revenue was required to enable these railroads to operate efficiently. Instead, it relied on the mere existence of a disparity between what it
said was a reasonable interstate rate and the intrastate
rate fixed by North Carolina. It thought this action was
justified by this Court's opinion in Illinois Commerce
Comm'n v. United States, 292 U. S. 474, 485. Aside from
the fact that "the mere existence of a disparity between
particular rates on intrastate and interstate traffic does
not warrant the Commission in prescribing intrastate
rates," Floridav. United States, 282 U. S. 194, 211-212;
Utah Edible Livestock Rates and Charges,206 I. C. C. 309,
there is reasonable doubt as to whether the Commission
had ever fixed 2.2 cents as the only reasonable interstate
rate.
The whole argument that it had done so rests primarily
on an order made in 1936. At that time, the Commission
made a comprehensive investigation of rates throughout
the nation, and after elaborate discussion made findings
by its reference to "revenues required to enable respondents to render
adequate and efficient-transportation service." The "respondents"

referred to were the individual railids to -which North Carolina's
order applied.
'This case did not involve a sweeping statewide order based on
general railroad revenue needs. It related to a problem like that
considered in the Shreveport case. The rates involved applied to
switching movements in a single "Switching District," "essentially a
,unit, so far as switching movements are concerned." This Court's
holding in that case does not suppor

the statewide order here.

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

517

Opinion of the Court.

of fact. It concluded that any rate over 2 cents per passenger mile would be unreasonable and unlawful. But it
also declared that a rate of 1.5 cents then commonly
charged throughout the Southern states, would not be
"unreasonable or otherwise unlawful." 214 I. C. C. 174,
257. Railroads in the South continued to charge 1.5 cents
most of the time from then until 1942. March 2, 1942,
upon an application of the American railroads, the Commission in Ex parte 148, granted a general 10% increase
on all rates then in existence. This increase it found was
necessary to enable the railroads "to continue to render
adequate and efficient railway-transportation service
during the present emergency." 248 I. C. C. 545, 565.
The Commission specifically stated, p. 606, that its conclusion was not based on "individual, sectional, or particular industrial desires or needs." Four months later, on
July 14, 1942, certain railroads operating in the South,
including the railroads involved in the North Carolina
case, filed a petition with the Commission asking that it
modify its 1936 order, so as to permit them to charge 2.2
cents per mile. Two weeks later, without a hearing, without evidence, and without discussion, the Commission entered an order declining to amend its 1936 order, but
modifying its 10% rate increase order, "so as to authorize"
the petitioning railroads to charge 2.2 cents per mile. It
made no finding that the railroads needed this increase
in order to maintain adequate railroad systems and of
course could not have done so unless it relied upon the
old 1936 evidence. There was no issue of this nature
raised by any of the parties in the 10% rate increase proceedings. Neither before nor since these Southern railroads were authorized by the Commission to increase their
interstate rate to 2.2 cents has any hearing been held on
the subject. Petition of North Carolina for a hearing
was denied. Nor has there been any finding based on evidence that the 1.65 cents rate which the Commission

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

found adequate, and neither "unreasonable nor unlawful," has ceased to be such. We are unable to find from
any of the various orders that the Commission has ever
yet made findings supported by evidence and upon them
set aside its 1936 conclusions that a 1.5 cents rate for
Southern territory was reasonable and lawful, except
to the extent that it held that a 10% increase was
justifiable.
Furthermore, even assuming that the Commission had
previously made a valid 2.2 cents per mile general order
broadly applicable to all railroads in the Southern territory or throughout the nation, it does not follow that
such a general order must pe:manently stand as to each
and every separate railroad or railroad system. The very
nature of such a broad general order requires that it contain a saving clause for future modification and adjustment of particular rates. This Court declared that such
a saving clause was essential even at the time that all
surplus railroad profits were pooled for the common good
of the national system. Railroad Commission v. Chicago,
B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 579; Georgia Commission
v. United States, 283 U. S. 765, 772; United States v.
Louisiana,290 U. S. 70, 76, 77, 79.
Such a saving clause left to the state its power to bring
about particular changes in the internal intrastate rate
structure necessary to keep intrastate revenues as a class in
harmony with interstate needs. Railroad Commission v.
Chicago,B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563, 580. For the Interstate Commerce Commission was "without jurisdiction
over intrastate rates except to protect and make effective
some regulation of interstate commerce." Illinois Commerce Comm'n v. Thomson, 318 U. S. 675, 684. Consequently, no one but the state had power to readjust its
internal intrastate rate structure. This it undertook to do
by a hearing focussed upon the state railroads individually
and collectively. Four railroads were denied the increase,

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

519

Opinion of the Court.

and they are the only ones now affected by the Interstate
Commerce Commission order. Other roads were granted
the increase. Its order to this effect rested on evidence as
to the differing qualities of intrastate and interstate accommodations afforded as well as the net revenues of different roads. The State Commission found as to the four
roads which it denied an increase that their profits from
passenger revenues even on a 1.65 cents rate were so great
that continuance of that rate would be reasonable and
just to them.
In the proceedings before the Interstate Commerce
Commission, the state and the Price Administrator presented these issues which the State Commission had considered. Both the railroads and their adversaries offered
evidence on the points. There was evidence that the four
railroads were carrying more passengers and more freight,
and were more prosperous than they had ever been in
their history, This evidence showed that they were in the
highest excess profit tax brackets, and that somewhere
between 80 and 90% of all their profits were subject to
be paid for federal taxes.
There was evidence offered by the railroads, which indicated that their 1942 per mile net cost of carrying coach
passengers was under or about 1 cent. The Commission
had found facts in the 1936 report, 214 I. C. C. at pp. 216,
266, which indicated a mileage coach passenger cost of 3.25
cents. Evidence of the four railroads also showed their
average revenue increase since 1936 had been 'Approximately 250%. This great revenue increase transformed
a 1936 $16,426.00 deficit of six North Carolina reads, including the four here involved, into a 1942 $26,699,988.00
profit. Most of this increased profit was shown to have
been derived from passenger revenues.
All of this evidence and much more to which we might
advert was sufficient to show that the Commission might
have found, had it made any findings on the subject at all,

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

that a 1.65 cents rate for these four North Carolina railroads would have been a fair coach passenger contribution to revenues required to enable them to operate

profitably and efficiently. But it made no findings on this
subject at all. The purpose of the National Transportation
Law is to assure railroads a fair net operating income and
no more. Dayton-Goose Creek R. Co. v. United States,
263 U. S. 456. The power of the Commission to require
states to raise their intrastate rates depends upon whether
intrastate traffic is contributing its fair share of the earnings required to meet maintenance and operating costs and
to yield a fair return on the value of property directed to
the transportationservice both interstate and intrastate.
UnitedStates v. Louisiana,290 U. S. 70, 75. But the Commission cannot "require intrastate rates to be raised above
a reasonable level." UnitedStates v. Louisiana,supra,78.
And where there is evidence as here from which the Commission could have found that a rate of 2.2 cents was far
above a reasonable rate level for the intrastate coach traffic
of these four railroads, the Commission must make findings on that issue, which findings are supported by evidence, before entering an order supplanting the state
authority. Without such findings supported by evidence,
the Commission was not authorized to find that the intrastate rates discriminated against interstate commerce.
Because the order of the Commission was not based on
adequate findings, supported by evidence, the District
Court should have declined to enforce its order. The judgment of the District Court is
Reversed.
dissenting.
The Court has set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission which was entered May 8, 1944, on a
Commission report of the preceding March 25th. 258
I. C. C. 133. The order covered investigations instituted
MR. JUsTIcE REED,

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

REED,

521

J., dissenting.

upon separate petitions of carriers in North Carolina, Kentucky, Alabama and Tennessee to determine whether the
maintenance of intrastate fares in these states at levels
below fares and charges established for application to
interstate traffic in respective states on October 1, 1942,
caused undue or unreasonable advantage, prejudice or
preference between persons or localities in intrastate commerce on the one hand, and interstate commerce on the
other, or any such discrimination against interstate commerce. 49 U. S. C. § 13 (4). The petitions sought, too,
prescription of fares and charges by the Commission to
remove any preference, advantage, prejudice or discrimination found to exist. See also Alabama v. United States
and Davis v. United States, post, p. 535. This dissent i,
applicable both to this and that opinion.
Without summarizing the entire report we call attention to a finding which it contains that traffic moving
under these lower intrastate fares is not contributing it,
fair share of the revenues required to enable appellees (thE
interstate carriers) to render adequate and efficient transportation service and that this "unlawfulness should be
removed by increasing" the intrastate fares to the level
of the interstate fares. 2581. C. C. 154, 155, Findings 5 and
6. This finding, if supported by evidence, is in our opinion sufficient to justify the applicable order of May 8th
which is under review in this appeal. That order required
the carriers to maintain and apply intrastate fares on bases
no lower than those applied by the carriers in interstate
transportation to, from and through the four states.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has the power to
make this order on a valid finding of such discrimination
against interstate commerce. 49 U. S. C. § 13 (4). It
has long been established that this section delegates a
valid power of regulation of intrastate rates to the Commission. Railroad Commission v. Chicago, B. & Q. R.
Co., 257 U. S. 563. Cf. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

352,432, and Houston, E. & W. T. R. Co. v. United States
(the Shreveport case), 234 U. S. 342, 351. It gives authority to the Commission to raise intrastate rates so that
that traffic may produce its fair share of the required earnings. United States v. Louisiana,290 U. S. 70, 75. And
that authority does not depend upon the recapture, in
whole or in part, of excess earning of individual railroads
under the requirements of the Transportation Act of 1920,
41 Stat. 488, § 15a, now repealed, Emergency Railroad
Transportation Act, 1933, 48 Stat. 220, §- 205, for creation of a general railroad contingent fund for financing
the national transportation system of railways. Section
13 (4) was not changed by the Act of 1933. This section
in conjunction with the revised and reenacted § 15a of the
Interstate Commerce Act now empowers the Commission,
in accordance with the statutory provisions, to remove the
discrimination against interstate commerce by prescribing intrastate fares.1 Floridav. UnitedStates, 292 U.S. 1,
4, First. Cf. Illinois Commerce Comm'n v. Thomson,
318 U. S. 675, 682. This Court today recognizes this rule.
The four states attack the finding of discrimination against
interstate commerce, which finding is essential to the validity of the present order to maintain intrastate fares
at the level of interstate fares, on the ground that there is
neither finding nor evidence that the intrastate rates are
1The present § 15a, 49 U. S. C., reads as follows:
"(1) When used in this section, the term 'rates' means rates, fares,
and charges, and all classifications, regulations, and practices relating
thereto.
"(2) In the exercise of its power to prescribe just and reasonable
rates the Commission shall give due consideration, among other factors, to the effect of rates on the movement of traffic by the carrier
or carriers for which the rates are prescribed; to the need, in the public interest, of adequate and efficient railway transportation service
at the lowest cost consistent with the furnishing of such service; and
to the need of revenues sufficient to enable the carriers, under honest,
economical, and efficient management to provide such service."

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

REED,

523

J., dissenting.

not producing a proper proportion of the carriers' needed
revenue. This Court sustains the attack as sufficient to
invalidate the Commission order. We think the argument, which the Court has sustained, has its source in a
misconception of the purpose of this present proceeding.
The petitions were filed by the carriers, the investigation was made and the order under dispute here was entered to coordinate the intrastate passenger fares in these
four states with the passenger fare structure of the entire
country. 258 I. C. C. 133. There had been a number of
recent proceedings involving the national structure. The
evidence, which will be referred to later, presented in those
proceedings is, we think, properly to be considered in this
investigation and the power of the Commission to require
intrastate fares to conform to interstate fares in the four.
states is to be appraised in the light of a purpose to establish a national passenger rate structure. The Court apparently accepts as a premise the contention of the states
that the present proceeding is an isolated investigation
by the Commission into an application by the respective
carriers in the four states to have their intrastate fares
raised to the level of their interstate fares because the
intrastate earnings were below a fair proportion of the
carriers' total required income.2 Instead we think that
2Compare the following excerpt from the opinion of the Court:

"But the question posed by the Commission's conclusion was
whether the particular North Carolina railroads were obtaining from
North Carolina's intrastate passenger rates their fair part of such
funds as were required to enable these particular railroads to render
adequate and efficient service. The Commission made no findings as'
to what contribution from intrastate traffic would constitute a fair
proportion of the railroad's total income. It made no finding as to
what amount of revenue was required to enable these railroads tooperate efficiently. Instead, it relied on the mere existence of a disparity between what it said was a reasonable interstate rate and the
intrastate rate fixed by North Carolina. It thought this action was
justified by this Court's opinion in Illinois Commerce Comm'n vi
United States, 292 U. S. 474, 485."

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RzED, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

these proceedings are but another step in the comprehensive regulation by the Commission of the general passenger fare structure.
Basic Interstate Fares. The basic passenger fares were
first investigated on a national scale by the Commission
in Passenger Fares and Surcharges, No. 26550, decided
February 28, 1936. In this proceeding carrier coach and
pullman fares respectively were fixed at not to exceed
2 and 3 cents per passenger mile. 214 I. C. C. 174, 256.3
The order, see paragraph 3, page 257, left these respondent
roads in the southern territory free to continue certain
experimental fares, which were as-low as 1.5 cents per
mile in-coaches. A ten per cent increase, applicable to
both the basic 2 and 3 cent fares and the experimental
fares, was allowed on January 21, 1942, in a proceeding
before the Commission, docketed as Ex parte No. 148,
IncreasedRailway Rates, Fares,and Charges, 248 I. C. C.
545, 549, 564; 566, 612. A reference to the Commission's
8States made the earliest efforts to limit passenger fares. E. g.
Kansas, 1901, § 66-167, Revised Statutes of Kansas (1923); North
Dakota, 1907, § 4796, Compiled Laws of North Dakota (1913);
Illinois, 1907, § 170, Callaghan's Illinois Statutes Annotated (1924);
Iowa, 1913, § 8126, Code of Iowa (1924). Such limitations were,
of course, not uniform. On May 25, 1918, by General Order No. 28,
the United States Railroad Administration in order to increase the
operating revenue fixed the national basic passenger fare in coaches,
interstate and intrastate, at not less than 3 cents per mile, with a
surcharge for pullmans. This produced a considerable degree of
uniformity. An increase of 20% or to 3.6 cents was made as of
August 26, 1920. In the depression of the 1930s certain carriers
operating in southern territory experimented with fair success on
revenues with fares as low as 1.5 cents per mile in coaches. Alabama
Intrastate Fares, 258 I. C. C. at 134.
Approximate uniformity before 1936 was maintained by the Commission's use of 13 (4) orders to bring intrastate fares into line with
interstate fares. The Commission found it more convenient later to
secure state adoption of its rates by cooperation through agreement.
See Sharfman, The Interstate Commerce Commission II, pp. 287-344.

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

REED,

525

J., dissenting.

decisions in the above proceedings will indicate the full
hearing which was given the fare problems in those cases.
In the Passenger Fares case, the report of the Commission, 214 I. C. C. at 175, shows that all carriers by railroad
subject to the act were made respondents and that a
committee of the State Commissioners cooperated with
the Commission in determining the issues. In the Increased Railway Rates case, all the states were notified
of the pendency of the proceeding and a committee of
the state commissions also attended the hearing and oral
argument and conferred as to the determination of the
issues. 248 I. C. C. at 549. All rail carriers were again
before the Commission.
After the ten per cent increase, the railroads of southern
passenger association territory filed, on July 14, 1942, a
petition in Passenger Fares and Surcharges, No. 26550,
seeking a modification of paragraph 3 of the conclusions,
214 I. C. C. at 257, to enable them to file tariffs increasing
their coach fare to 2.2 cents (2 cents plus 10 per cent).
The Commission ruled that its former decision in No.
26550, 214 I. C. C. at 256, permitted all railroads, respondents therein, which included applicants, to charge
a basic fare of 2 cents and that a general increase of 10
per cent on these rates had been authorized in Ex parte
No. 148, and that therefore the Commission could and it
did authorize the application of the 2.2 cent basic rate to
interstate rates in southern territory. The Commission
by order of August 1, 1942, directed that the petition in
No. 26550 be denied, evidently because the order in that
number had been superseded by the "Increased Rates"
proceecings, Ex parte No. 148, and that its order in Ex
parte No. 148 be modified to effectuate this increase and
that it be left otherwise unchanged.' The participating
4 "It is further ordered, That the order of January 21, 1942, in Ex
parte No. 148, be, and it is hereby, further modified so as to authorize
the aforesaid petitioners to apply the increase of 10 per cent approved

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RE=, J., dissenting.

325 U.S.

carriers then approached the separate state authorities to
obtain their consent to the increase for intrastate passenger traffic in accordance with the recitation in the order
of January 21, 1942, in Ex parte No. 148.' On the refusal
of the rate regulatory authorities of North Carolina, AlabaRa, Tennessee and Kentucky to authorize the applicatpii of the increased interstate basic coach fare of 2.2
'tents, with corresponding adjustments for pullmans, to
all intrastate fares, this present proceeding was initiated
by the carriers to secure the Commission order of May 8,
1944, here involved, which requires the application of a
basis no lower than their present interstate basis to intrastate fares, notwithstanding the refusal of the state rate
authorities to authorize a similar application. The
commissions of the respective states, and the Price
Administrator for himself and the Director of Economic
Stabilization intervened.
The foregoing references make plain that beginning
with the comprehensive investigation of passenger fares,
which was instituted by Commission order of June 4, 1934,
and resulted in the order of February 28, 1936, 214 I. C. C.
174, the state regulatory authorities have not only been
advised of the rate proceedings but have participated in
in said order to a basic coach fare of 2 cents per mile on the lines
of said petitioners, subject to the rule for the disposition of fractions
as modified by order of July 6, 1942, in said proceeding, and that
in all other respects said order of January 21, 1942, shall remain in
full force and effect."
5The portion of the order referred to reads as follows:
"It appearing .

.

. that the proper authorities of all States have

been notified of this proceeding, and similar application has been or
will be made to the regulatory authority of the respective States for
permission to increase similarly petitioners' intrastate rates, fares, and
charges;
"It is ordered, That the increased passenger fares as proposed by..
the said petitioners be, and they are hereby, approved . . ."

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

REED,

527

J., dissenting.

them. The record specifically shows this participation
except in the supplementary proceeding under docket No.
26550, which was filed July 14, 1942, and resulted in the
order of August 1, 1942, in docket Ex parteNo. 148. This
August 1, 1942, order, note 4 supra,permitted increasing
the carriers' interstate fares of 1.65 cents per passenger mile
(the 1.50 cents of the 1936 experimental southern district
fares, then adjudged by the Commission to be "not unreasonable or otherwise unlawful," 214 I. C. C. 257, par. 3,
and the ten per cent increase thereon of Ex parte No. 148,
248 I. C. C. 545, 564-66) to 2.2 cents. There was no occasion or requirement for hearing or report by the Commission or notice to the states of the petition of the southern passenger association carriers for permission to apply
this 2.2 cents basic passenger rate to their interstate
traffic.
The southern railroad passenger rate problem was stated
in the terms of "what reasonable fare basis will meet with
the greatest revenue response from the public?" 214
I. C. C. at 201. The conclusion of the Commission is thus
summarized at page 255, finding of fact No. 11:
"Giving appropriate consideration to all of the evident
circumstances and conditions which are likely to affect the
ultimate revenue result to respondents, a maximum-fare
basis, one way and round trip, for general application, of
2 cents per mile in coaches and 3 cents per mile in pullmans would be most likely to lessen the transportation
burden of respondents and to harmonize with presentday economic conditions, with consequent fuller assurance to the respondents of realizing a fair return upon
their property investment. There is doubt whether at
least in the southern district a coach fare of 1.5 cents per
mile is not producing better revenue results for those respondents than would any higher fare, and it may also
be that round-trip fares on both coach and pullman traffic
at a lower rate per mile than the one-way fares herein pre-

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

scribed would bring to respondents better revenue results
than the higher fares. These matters are left to the discretion of respondents."
This resulted in the following provision by the CommisSion, at page 257:
"3. The present experimental fares in the southern and
western districts and on the Norfolk & Western are not
unreasonable or otherwise unlawful."
Obviously this provision was to make clear that the current lower rates of the southern carriers were not disapproved. It cannot properly be read, even though entirely
isolated from its context, as a requirement that the southern carriers should continue to apply this lower basis to
their passenger fares. The preceding provision limited
the regular passenger fare structure of all railroads, including of course the southern carriers now appellees, to a
maximum of 2 cents per passenger mile in coaches, without prejudice to lower fares. Lower fares were "discretionary" with the company. The accompanying order
limited maximum interstate fares generally to 2 cents
and contained no reference to the lower experimental fares.
Thus a national interstate basis schedule, universally applicable,' was established by the report and order in docket
No. 26550, the Passenger Fares and Surcharges decision,
and this basis was increased to 2.2 cents per mile by the
January 21, 1942, order in Ex parte No. 148, 248 I. C. C.
545. Consequently when the southern carriers, appellees
here, petitioned on July 14, 1942, seeking 'a modification
to permit the publication of interstate passenger tariffs
inconformity with the previous conclusions in No. 26550
and Ex parte No. 148, no further investigation, report or
notice to anyone was needed.
The interstate basis had been fixed at 2.2 cents a few
months before. Carriers and states alike had acquiesced.
The carriers now wished to exercise the discretion to raise
6

There were certain specified exceptions. 214 I. C. C. at 244.

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

REED,

529

J., dissenting.

fares, which discretion had been reserved to them in No.
26550, 214 I. C. C. at 255, and subsequent conclusions 2
and 3, at 256. All that was necessary Was to modify the
order in Ex parte No. 148 of January 21, 1942, which had
approved, "as proposed," a requested ten per cent increase
in fares "as published in passenger tariffs," 248 I. C. C.
550, 565, and the order, note 5 supra, so that the limitation "as published in passenger, tariffs" would be removed.
The appellee carriers had outstanding published tariffs of
1.50 cents when the January 21, 1942, order was entered.
The August 1, 1942 order removed the limitation. See.
note 4 supra.
The preceding paragraphs under "Basic Interstate
Fares" demonstrate, we think, that no further hearings
or findings by the Commission were necessary -to enAble
the Commission-to authorize the application of the national basis of 2.2 cents to their interstate fares by the
appellee carriers, instead of the. 1.65 cents in effect prior
to the order of August 1, 1942.
Discrimination Against Interstate Commerce. The
Court holds, however, that even if it is assumed that the
order permitting the interstate basic fare of 2.2 cents is
valid, it does not follow that the intrastate passenger
.traffic earnings on the 1.65 cent rate are not contributing
a fair proportion of the required total earnings of the
road. The Court points to evidence from which the Commission might have found that the 1.65 cent basis, or a
lower basis than 2.2 cents, would produce sufficient to
meet the intrastate contribution. Evidence is set out
in the Court's opinion showing greatly increased passenger
earnings. The Court concludes that as such evidence is
presented in this record, the Commission must make finding that no lower fare will produce intrastate traffic's
proportion of revenue before requiring the application
of the interstate 2.2 cent rate to intrastate fares.
This argument, we think, flows from another phase of
the same misconception to which we earlier referred as

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED,

J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

the source of the Court's erroneous conclusion. These
proceedings ought not to be treated as isolated efforts to
secure higher intrastate rates because the present intrastate rates are not producing their fair share of the total
required income. To the Court's requirement, which it
reads into §§ 13 (4) and 15a, of a specific finding on the

issue of whether the present 1.65 cent intrastate rate
produces now the proper intrastate proportion of revenue,
there seems to us a conclusive answer. The interstate
maximum was adopted by the Commission on the assumption that the intrastate rates would be adjusted to the
same level. Therefore revenue from intrastate rates
at the interstate fares is required to produce the needed
income.
In this present proceeding the validity of the interstate
rate of these carrier appellees was re-examined.7 Evidence as to each appellee carrier of former deficits from
its entire passenger traffic prior to 1942 was noted. Evidence as to their passenger operating ratios, their increased expenses, their net earnings on passenger business
and other operations also, was received and appraised.
Attention was called, 258 I. C. C. 142, to the fact that the
previous investigation into passenger rates, Ex parte
No. 148, had anticipated the earnings during war years,
page 142, and their need for deferred maintenance and
war service, page 148. The interstate basic rate was found
just and reasonable. See Alabama Intrastate Fares, 258
I. C. C. 133, 137.
The figures used were aggregate figures for past passenger receipts and expenses. Audits for representative
periods showed the estimated amount of additional
The national investigation, Ex parte No. 148, has also been reopened and reexamined as late as December 12, 1944, but the pastsenger rates were left unchanged. 259 I. C. C. 159. This report
discussed intermediate reexaminations of the national passenger rate
structure.

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

531

REED, J., dissenting.

revenue from the increased intrastate fares.8 The statistics for the net railway operating income were introduced
which covered all receipts and expenses. The evidence of
train service in the respective states led the Commission
to find that travel conditions were "substantially similar,"
258 I. C. C. 154. If the Commission's conclusion as to
carrier revenue needs assumed equal intrastate and interstate fares and if the present interstate rates were held
"just and reasonable," it follows that the finding that the
lower intrastate rates were not contributing their fair
share of the "revenues required to'enable respondents to
render adequate and efficient transportation service" was
proper. This logically led to the finding 6, that this failure of intrastate traffic to contribute its part discriminated
against interstate commerce.
The determination of the necessary basic interstate
rate in all these proceedings was made on the supposition
of intrastate rates of equal level. When general basic
rates, fares or charges are fixed by the Commission, the
Commission necessarily gives consideration "to the need
of revenues sufficient to enable the carriers, under honest,
economical, and efficient management to provide" railway transportation at the lowest cost. § 15a. Therefore
when interstate rates are fixed with the supposition of an
equal level for intrastate rates, for substantially similar
service, it requires a contribution on that basis from intrastate rates to avoid intrastate discrimination against interstate traffic. If it appears that interstate fares have been
fixed with the supposition of an equal level for intrastate
Alabama IntrastateFares,2581. C. C. 133, 154-55, Finding 5:
"Respondents' revenues under the lower intrastate fares are less
by at least $725,000 per annum in Alabama, $500,000 in Kentucky,
$525,000 in North Carclina, and $525,000 in Tennessee than they
would be ii those fares were inoreased to the level of the corresponding
interstate fares, and traffic moving under these lower intrastate fares
is not contributing its fair share of the revenues required to enable
respondents to render adequate and efficient transportation service."

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
REED, J:, dissenting.

325 U. S.

fares, then it is clear that intrastate rates are not producing their expected revenue. The Commission thus
would have manifested its consideration of the statutory
requirements of §§ 13 (4) and 15a that due consideration
be given revenue and efficient -management in finding
unjust discrimination against interstate commerce and
in prescribing the intrastate rate which would remove the
discrimination. See United States v. Carolina Carriers
Corp., 315 U. S. 475, 489.
In the proceeding in which these southern interstate
carriers were permitted to apply the general basic interstate coach rate of 2.2 cents, the order therein of August
1, 1942, by adopting the order of January 21, 1942, in Ex
parte No. 148, 248 I. C. C. 545, required the appellee carriers to make application to the state authorities for similar intrastate increases. See note 5, supra. The required
applications led directly to this litigation.
Both in Passenger Fares and Surcharges, 214 I. C. C.
174, 257, par. 5, and Increased Railwafj Rates, Ex parte
No. 148, 248 I. C. C. 545, 565-66, which are the two investigations which brought interstate coach fares to a maximum of 2.2 cents per passenger mile, the Commission itself
ordered the numerous intrastate fares which were under
its direction because regulated by the Commission through
previous § 13 proceedings, modified in accordance with
the interstate fares. As pointed out in the preceding
paragraph the order in Ex parte No. 148 required application to state rate regulatory bodies for autliority to increase the intrastate passenger rates to the same level.
Specific consideration was given to various objections
raised by state commissions to the proposed new fares and
rates, all with an eye to securing future compliance by the
states with the interstate rates to be set by the Commission.
See 248 I. C. C. at 560, 565, 574,580,582. In the Passenger
Faresinvestigation, the figures on passenger traffic reflect
the aggregate use of trains without consideration of a
division of the traffic between inter- and intrastate. 214

NORTH CAROLINA v. UNITED STATES.
507

REED,

533

J., dissenting.

I. C. C. 174, 176, 179, 180, i85, 200, 209, 221, 230, 231.
The Commission said at page 187:
"At the time the 1920 increase was authorized many of
the States prohibited passenger fares above certain
amounts per mile, most of them 2 cents or 2.5 cents, and
section 13 orders by us became necessary in order to bring
the intrastate fares in those States up to the interstate
basis."
The tables of passenger statistics in the appendices do not
separate the traffic. Revenue from all passenger traffic
was the dominant motive. See "Fact Findings," page
253. Evidence in Ex parte No. 148 likewise related to aggregate revenue. So did the expected increases.
"On the basis of traffic, both interstate and intrastate,
moved during 1941 and moving when the petition was
filed, allowing for readjustments required by commercial
and traffic conditions, petitioners estimate that the proposals will yield increased revenue for all class I railroads
of about $356,956,000 per year." 248 I. C. C. 552.
The interstate increase of Ex parteNo. 148 "became effective on intrastate traffic in all of the States" by sta te order.
258 I. C. C. at 136. The general considerations on the
decline in railroad passenger traffic which motivated the
Commission in establishing the new interstate rate applied to both intrastate and interstate traffic. 214 I. C. C.
at 176; 248 1. C. C. at 551. As a matter of fact, separation
of interstate and intrastate income is not required by the
Commission in its annual reports. 49 C. F. R. § 120.11
et seq. These proceedings convince us. that the Commission reached its conclusion as to the proper interstate rate
with the understanding that the interstate rate would be
applied to intrastate traffic and that such revenue as might
result from that application was needed by the carriers
involved to furnish adequate service.
Under § 13 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act in proceedings as to unjust discrimination against interstate
commerce, the issue is not the earnings from intrastate

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
RED, J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

traffic but the appropriate proportion of those earnings as
compared with earnings from interstate commerce. Section 15a requires consideration of costs, economy and adequate transportation service. Section 13 (4) requires a
finding of discrimination against interstate commerce as a
basis for regulation of intrastate commerce, 258 I. C. C.
154-55, pars. 5 and 6. It may be that the earnings from
intrastate commerce may sometimes be one percentage
of aggregate earnings and at another time another percentage. The Commission may conclude that the carriers' required revenue may best be obtained from intrastate passenger fares rather than from freight rates. The
reverse was once true. Cf. 214 I. C. C. at 227. These
are matters for Commission decision.
The language of 15a has been modified from its original
form in the Transportation Act of 1920 so that it no longer
specifically empowers the Commission to deal with fares
and rates of carriers as a whole for the nation or as a
whole in designated territories or rate groups. We think,
however, that the present statute, "In the exercise of its
power to prescribe just and reasonable rates," the Commission shall give consideration to various nhmed factors,
is adequate to permit general rate regulation under 15a
and § 1 (5). This power has been unquestioned. See
Passenger Fares and Surcharges, 214 I. C. C. 174, and
Class Rate Investigation No. 28300 and Consolidated
Freight Classification No. 28310. It is the only practicable approach to the problem. See discussion in New England Divisions.Case,261 U. S. 184, 196. We cannot treat
the present proceeding as disassociated from the general
investigation into passenger fares. United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70, 76-79. We think it. is adequately
shown that the orders in the general investigation were
predicated upon the assumption that intrastate passenger
traffic would have an equal basis with interstate traffic
for fares.

ALABAMA v. UNITED STATES.
507

Statement of the Case.

Unjust or UnreasonableIntrastate Fares. It may be
that the intrastate fares prescribed by the Commission
are unjust or unreasonable in certain items. The report
of the Commission provides a remedy for such a situation:
"The foregoing findings are without prejudice to the
right of the authorities of the affected States, or of any
interested party, to apply for modification thereof as to
any specific intrastate fare on theground that such fare
is not related to interstate fares in such a way as to contravene the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act."
258 I. C. C. at p. 155.
The remedy for a readjustment of the basic interstate
fare or for a separation of the levels of interstate and intrastate fares is by application to the Commission for reopening of PassengerFares and Surcharges, 214 I. C. C.
174.
We do not consider the other points which are raised
by the appeal.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS and MR.
JUSTICE FRANKFURTER join in this dissent.
ALABAMA ET AL. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
NO. 5 7 4. APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF.KENTUCKY.*
Argued April 24, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.
Decided on the authority of North Carolina v. United States, ante,
p. 507.
56 F. Supp. 478, reversed.
APPEALS from a decree of a district court of three judges
denying injunctions and dismissing the complaints in three
suits to enjoin and set aside an order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
*Together with No. 592, Davis, Economic Stabilization Director,
by Bowles, Price Administrator,v. United States et al., also on appeal
from the District Court of the United States for the Western District
of Kentucky.

