WALLING v. HARDWOOD CO.
.410

419

Syllabus.

we have construed it, matters that must in the first instance
be presented to the Emergency Court of Appeals. Lockerty v. Phillips,319 U. S. 182; Yakus v. United States, 321
U. S. 414, 427-431. Nor are we here concerned with any
possible hardship that the enforcement of the 60-cent price
ceiling may impose on respondent. Adequate avenues for
relief from hardship are open to respondent through the
provisions of § 2 (c) of the Act and § 1499.161 of the
regulation.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS thinks the judgment

should be

affirmed for the reasons given in the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 145 F. 2d 482.

WALLING, ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND
HOUR DIVISION, U. S. DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR, v. YOUNGERMAN-REYNOLDS HARDWOOD CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 955. Argued May 1, 1945.-Decided June 4, 1945.
1. In a proceeding brought by the Administrator to enjoin alleged
violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act, the District Court did
not abuse, its discretion in refusing to enjoin the employer's use of
a method of wage payments which the employer had abandoned
on the day before the trial-where the court found no evidence of
intent to resume use of such method of payments, nor of willful
violation of the Act, nor of intent to violate the Act in future.
P. 421.

2. The regular rate contemplated by § 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act refers to the hourly rate actually paid the employee for
the normal, non-overtime workweek for which he is employed. In
the case of piece work wages, this regular rate is the quotient of the
amount received during the week divided by the number of hours
worked. P. 424i

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

3. The regular rate by its very nature must reflect all payments which
the parties have agreed shall be received regularly during the workweek, exclusive of overtime payments. The determination of this
rate is a matter of mathematical calculation and is unaffected by any
designation of a contrary "regular rate" in the wage contracts.
P. 424.
4. Wage agreements between a lumber manufacturer and employees
engaged as stackers provided for compensation at a "regular rate"
of 35 cents per hour and one and one-half times that rate for overtime, with a guaranty of 70 cents per 1,000 board feet of lumber
ricked and 80 cents stacked. The guaranteed piece rate would result in an average hourly rate of 59 cents for a normal, non-overtime
workweek. Held that the wage agreements, so far as they failed to
provide for overtime compensation of one and one-half times the
regular rate actually received, which in this ins-Lance would equal
the average hourly rate of 59 cents, violated § 7 (a) of the Fair
Labor Standards Act. P. 425.
The individual regular rate which must be used will depend upon
the number of hours worked and the wages received by each stacker
during the particular workweek in question; but such a rate is the
one that must enter into any calculations of overtime payments due
under § 7 (a).
5. Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624, is not authority for fixing by
contract a "regular rate" wholly unrelated to payments which the
employees actually and normally receive each week. P. 426.
145 F. 2d 349, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 324 U. S. 837, to review the affirmance of a
judgment dismissing a suit by the Administrator to enjoin

alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
. Mr. Douglas B. Magqs, with whom Assistant Solicitor
General Hugh B. Cox, Messrs. Irving J. Levy, Ralph F.

Fuchs and Archibald Cox were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Fred S. Ball, Jr. for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The respondent corporation manufactures lumber for
shipment in interstate commerce, employing various men

WALLING v. HARDWOOD CO.
419

421

Opinion of the Court.

to pick up and stack boards. Prior to the trial in this
case these stackers were compensated at agreed piece rates
per thousand board feet ricked or stacked. The Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the Department
of Labor brought suit to enjoin alleged violations of the
overtime and record-keepig provisions of the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 19381 in connection with these stackers.
On the day before the commencement of the trial in the
District Court the respondent ceased to use the allegedly
illegal mode of piece rate compensation and entered into
new and more elaborate wage agreements with the stackers. Following the trial the District Court dismissed the
complaint and the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
the judgment. 145 F. 2d 349. We granted certiorari because of important questions as to whether the new wage
agreements comply with the requirements of § 7 (a) of the
Act.
First. The District Court found that even though the
former piece rate agreements be considered unlawful the
respondent had no apparent intention of resuming their
use. It also found no willful intention on the part of the
respondent to violate the Act and no evidence of any intention of future violations. It therefore felt that there was
no necessity for an injunction. While "voluntary discontinuance of an alleged illegal activity does not operate to
remove a case from the ambit of judicial power," Walling
v. Helmerich & Payne, 323 U. S. 37, 43, it may justify a
court's refusal to enjoin future activity of this nature'when
it is combined with a bona fide intention to comply with
the law and not to resume the wrongful acts. Cf. United
States v. United States Steel Corp., 251 U. S. 417, 445. We
cannot say, therefore, that the District Court abused its
discretion in refusing to enjoin the abandoned method
of wage payments.
1

52 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq.

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

At the same time, however, the validity of the new
wage agreements was also at stake. These agreements on
their face contemplated future hourly payments at regular and overtime rates as well as additional piece rate
payments. Since the Administrator's complaint alleged
generally that the respondent was violating §§ 7 and 15
(a) (2) by employing its stackers on a piece work basis
for more than 40 hours a week without compensating them
for overtime at one and one-half times the regular rate,
the question as to whether the new contracts satisfied
§ 7 (a) was properly in issue. Upon proof that these new
provisions did not comply with § 7 (a) the Administrator was therefore entitled to an injunction absent any
recognized mitigating factor. Evidence on this matter
was introduced at the trial and the two courts below considered the contracts thoroughly, predicating their judgments in part upon the belief that the agreements did
comply with § 7 (a). We accordingly turn to a consideration of that question.
Second. For approximately six months immediately
preceding the trial the stackers were paid piece rates
of 60 cents per thousand board feet ricked and 70 cents
per thousand board feet stacked. During this period they
earned at these rates an average of 51 cents an hour.
Under the new contracts made on the day before the trial,
however, they were compensated according to the following provisions:

"The basic or regular rate of pay is 35 cents per hour
for the first forty hours each week and for time over
forty hours each week the pay shall'not be less than one
and one-half times such basic or regular rate above mentioned with a guaranty that the.employee shall receive
weekly for regular time and for such overtime as the
employee may work a sum arrived at as follows:
"The amount of stacking done by said employee shall
be figured on the basis of 80 cents per thousand board

WALLING v. HARDWOOD CO.
419

Opinion of, the Court.

feet of lumber for flat stacking and 70 cents per thousand
board feet of lumber ricked."
Using by way of illustration the labor performed and
the hours worked during the six-month period preceding
the trial, the Administrator points out that under the
new guaranteed piece rates of 70 and 80 cents per thousand the stackers would earn an average of about 59 cents
an hour for all hours actually worked, including those in
excess of the statutory maximum. On the basis of the
contract "regular rate" of 35 cents an hour,' on the other
hand, the excess hours would yield the stackers only 52
cents hourly. It is thus apparent that the guaranteed
piece rates would yield greater returns on an hourly basis
for both regular and overtime work and that they would
actually be the rates paid.
The respondent argues that these contract provisions
satisfy § 7 (a) since they provide for a "regular rate" of
35 cents an hour and for payment of one and one-half times
that rate, or 521/2 cents, for all overtime hours. Inasmuch as the Act does not forbid incentive pay or compensation above and beyond the statutory requirements it is
urged that the additional payments resulting from the
operation of the guaranteed piece rates are unaffected'in
any way by § 7 (a). We cannot agree, however, that
this scheme of compensation is obedient to this statutory
mandate.
Under § 7 (a) an employer is required to compensate
his employees for all hours in excess of 40 at not less than
one and one-half times the regular rate at which they
are employed. Thus by increasing the employer's labor
costs by 50% at the end of the 40-hour week and by giving the employees a 50% premium for all excess hours,
§7 (a) achieves its dual purpose of inducing-the employer
2 At the time these contracts were made the minimum wage for
the timber products industry had been fixed at 35 cents an hour in

an order issued by the Administrator.

424

IOCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

to reduce the hours of work and to employ more men and
of compensating the employees for the burden of a long
workweek. Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S.
572, 577,-578; Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, supra, 40;
Jewell Ridge Coal Corp. v. Local No. 6167, ante,
pp. 161, 167.
The keystone of § 7 (a) is the regular rate of compensation. On that depends the amount of overtime payments which are necessary to effectuate the statutory
purposes. The proper determination of that rate is
therefore of prime importance.
As we have previously noted, the regular rate refers to
the hourly rate actually paid the employee for the normal,
non-overtime workweek for which he is employed. Walliny v. Helmerich & Payne, supra, 40; United States v.
Rosenwasser, 323 t. S. 360, 363. In the case of piece work
wages, this regular rate coincides with the hourly rate
actually received for all hours worked during the particular workweek, such rate being the quotient of the
amount received during the week divided by the number
of hours worked. See Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel,
supra, 580. As long as the minimum hourly rates established by § 6 are respected, the employer and employee
are free to establish this regular rate at any point and in
any manner they see fit. They may agree to pay compensation according to any time or work measurement
they desire. United States v. Rosenwasser, supra. "But
this freedom of contract does not include the right to
compute the regular rate in a wholly unrealistic and artificial manner so as to negate the statutory purposes."
Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, supra, 42. The regular
rate by its very nature must reflect all payments which
the parties have agreed shall be received regularly during
the workweek, exclusive of overtime payments. It is not
an arbitrary label chosen by the parties; it is an actual
fact. Once the parties have decided upon the amount of

WALLING v. HARDWOOD CO.
419

Opinion of the Court.

wages and the mode of payment the determination of the
regular rate becomes a matter of mathematical computation, the result of which is unaffected by any designation
of a contrary "regular rate" in the wage contracts.
Here it is established that under the new wage agreements the stackers will receive 70 or 80 cents per thousand
board feet ricked or stacked. Translated to an hourly
basis this means that they will receive approximately 59
cents per hour for both regular and overtime hours." That
amount is guaranteed them under the terms of the contracts and accurately mirrors all payments that they normally will receive from the respondent during the workweek. This 59-cent figure is therefore the average regular
rate at which the stackers are employed. The individual
regular rate which must be used depends, of course, upon
the number of hours worked and the wages received by
each stacker during the particular workweek in question.
But such a rate is the one that must enter into any calculations of overtime payments due under § 7 (a). Insofar as the wage agreements failed to provide for the
payment of one and one-half times this regular rate for
all overtime hours, they plainly violated the requirements

of § 7 (a).
The 35-cent per hour "regular rate" fixed by the contracts is obviously an artificial one, however bona fide it
may have been in origin. Except in the extremely unlikely situation of the piece work wages falling below a
35-cent per hour figure, this "regular rate" is never
actually paid. In the normal case where the stackers earn
more than 35 cents per hour on the piece rate basis during
non-overtime hours, they are guaranteed this higher figure
and are actually so compensated. And even when the
8 This

59 cents an hour average is based upon a six-month study
of work actually done by the stackers and there is no substantial
basis for assuming-fat it is incorrect or that the average is likely
to vary appreciably in the future.

426

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion ofthe Court.

325 U. S.

stackers work overtime they ictually receive at the present time an average of 59 cents an hour under the guaranteed piece rate system rather than one and one-half
times the 35-cent "regular rate."
The 35-cent figure thus does not constitute the hourly
rate actually paid for the normal, non-overtime workweek.
Nor is it used as the basis for calculating the compensation
received for overtime labor. It is not in fact the regular
rate under any normal circumstances. And reliance upon
it to prove compliance with § 7 (a) only allows respondent to escape completely the burden of a 50% premium
for the hours so worked and prevents the stackers from
receiving the benefits of such a premium as Congress
intended. Thus by a mere label respondent would be
enabled to nullify all the purposes for which § 7 (a) was
created. We are unable to perceive any reason for sanctioning that result.
This Court's decision in Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S.
624, lends no support to respondent's position. The particular wage agreements there involved were upheld because it was felt that in fixing a rate of 67 cents an hour
the contracts did in fact set the actual regular rate at
which the workers were employed. The case is no authority, however, for the proposition that the regular rate may
be fixed by contract at a point completely unrelated to
the payments actually and normally received each week
by the employees.
The judgment of the court below is reversed with directions to remand the case to the District Court for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
"For opinions of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring,
see post, p. 433; and MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE, dissenting,
see post, p. 434i

