478

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Counsel for Parties.

325 U. S.

in a declaratory judgment proceeding. The writ of certiorari is accordingly
Dismissed.
KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
NO. 39.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.*

Argued November 9, 10, 1944.-Decided June 11, 1945.
1. The evidence in this case was insufficient to sustain conviction of
the petitioners, members of the German-American Bund, for conspiracy knowingly to counsel others to evade service in the armed
forces of the United States, in violation of § 11 of the Selective
Training and Service Act of 1940. Pp. 488, 494.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J., in which FRANKFURTER and MURPHY, JJ.,

concur:
2. Promulgation and communication of Bund Command No. 37 was
not in itself a counsel to evade; evidence of the general disposition
of the petitioners either towards the Government of the United
States or towards the Selective Service Act did not make the Command a counsel to evade; and the evidence and oral statements
of the various petitioners at committee meetings and unit meetings
of the Bund did not supply the basis for a finding, beyond a reasonable doubt, of counselling, or intending to counsel, or conspiring
to counsel, evasion of military service within the meaning of § 11
of the Act. P. 494.
BiAcK and RUTLEDEo, JJ., concur in separate opinions, pp. 495, 498.
141 F. 2d 248, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 322 U. S. 719, to review a judgment affirming convictions of conspiracy in violation of § 11 of the
Selective Training and Service Act of 1940.

Messrs. John F. X. Finn and Harold W. Hastings and
Mr. William H. Timbers, pro hac vice, with whom Messrs.
*Together with No. 44, Kunze et al. v. United States, also on
certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

Leo C. Fennelly, George S. Leisure, Joab H. Banton and
George 'C. Norton were on the brief, for petitioners in
No. 44. Carl Frederick Berg, Ernest Martin Christoph,
John C. Fitting, William C. Kunz, William Ottersbach,
Max Rapp and Louis Schatz, petitioners in No. 44, submitted pro se. Wilbur V. Keegan, petitioner in No. 39,
submitted pro se.
Mr. James M. McInerney, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Tom C. Clark, Messrs.
Robert S. Erdahl,Ralph F. Fuchs, William Strong, Irving
S. Shapiro and Peter J. Donoghue were on the brief, for
the United States.
Mr. John F. X. Finn filed a brief, as amicus curiae,
urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS announced the judgment of the
Court and delivered the following opinion, in which MR.
JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE MuRPHY concur.
Two indictments, one returned July 7, 1942, the other
returned August 26, 1942, charged a conspiracy beginning
January 1, 1940, and ending at the dates the indictments
were found. The evident purpose of the second was to inelude several additional defendants as alleged conspirators.
We shall treat them as one.
The conspiracy charged was to counsel divers persons
to evade, resist, and refuse service in the land and haval
forces of the United States in violation of § 11 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940, 50 U. S. C. App. 311.
The Act defines the crime as conspiracy "knowingly" to
counsel "another to evade registration or service in the
land or naval forces
The proofs would not sustain, and the indictment does
not contain, any charge of conspiracy to counsel evasion
of registration.
In certain paragraphs of the indictment it is charged

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

325 U. S.

(1) That it was part of the conspiracy that each was and
would remain a member of the German-American Bund;
that each was a responsible leader of the Bund.
(2) That some prepared German articles called Bund
Commands and others distributed and caused them to be
distributed to units of the Bund.
(3) That the commands were read at meetings.
(4) That Command 37 counselled, directed, and urged
those to whom its contents were communicated to evade,
resist, and refuse service in the land and naval forces.
(5) That articles in the newspaper "The Free American," published by the Bund, which were distributed,
urged German-American citizens and others to resist,
refuse and evade such service.
(6) That the defendants otherwise urged GermanAmerican citizens and others to resist the provisions of the
Act of 1940 and to evade service.
The 25 defendants were tried together. One was, acquitted. The Government called 68 witnesses and the
trial lasted from September 17th to October 19th, 1942.
The printed transcript of testimony furnished this court
covers just short of 800 pages, and the exhibits offered in
evidpnce run to over 350, some of them containing over
50 pages. The defendants were represented at the trial
by appointed counsel as they were not able to employ
counsel.
The Government correctly states that the evidence offered by the prosecutor falls into two classes: (1) that
touching the German-American Bund and its purposes,
which was offered to indicate the motives and purposes
for the defendants' statements and actions; and (2) evidence touching'specific actions, conduct, and statements
tending to show the existence of a conspiracy and the steps
taken pursuant to it. The evidence in the first category
is overwhelmingly greater in volume than that in the second. Indeed a question arises whether it was not an abuse

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

of discretion to permit the Government to go, at such
inordinate length, into evidence ;concerning the Bund and
its predecessor, the Friends of 'New Germany, during a
period of sevenyears prior to the inception of the alleged
conspiracy; and concerning Bund uniforms and paraphernalia, and pictures and literature in the possession
of various defendants.
What we shall characterize as the background evidence
may be summarized. The proofs disclose that there existed from some time in the early 1930's a society known
as the Friends of New Germany. About 1935 the name
was changed to the German-American Bund. After Fritz
Kuhn, the leader of the organization, had been arrested
and convicted of certain offenses irrelevant to the present
case, Kunze, one of the petitioners, became president. At
the convention of 1940 a new constitution was adopted;
and at some time within the dates specified as covering
the conspiracy a synopsis of the structure of the Bund
was promulgated. Minutes of the convention of 1940 also
were in evidence.
From these documents a conception of the nature and,
to some extent, the purposes of the association may be
obtained. It was organized on the fuehrer or leadership
principle. The president was the leader, and was amenable only to the association in convention assembled. His
orders were law unless and until modified or abrogated
by a convention. Members were expected to obey his
orders. Disobedience involved discipline, or expulsion
from the organization. The entire hierarchy of constituent organizations and of officials, national and local, was
created by him; and all officials, high and low, held office
subject to his pleasure. The constituent organizations
consisted of local units, each of which had its leader, and
of collateral organizations within a unit, such as an OD
division, whose function was to drill in uniform, to police

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

325 U. S.

meetings of members, and perform other similar duties;
a youth organization, etc.
The professed purpose of the Bund was to keep alive
the German spirit among persons of German blood in the
United States. Speeches and literature justify the inference that the Bund endorsed the Nazi movement in Germany and, if it did not actually advocate some such form
of government in this country, at least essayed to create
public opinion favorable to the Hitler regime and to the
German National Socialist State. The Bund was also
anti-British and opposed our entering the war on the side
of the British; its aim was to keep us neutral and friendly
to the new Germany. There is much in literature put out
or approved by the Bund concerning "discrimination"
against American citizens of German blood and the fight
which must be waged against it. There is also much to
the effect that the Bund is pursuing lawful aims within
the constitutional rights of its members, and that its
activities need not be hidden from governmental agencies.
There is basis for suspicion of subversive conduct; there
is matter offensive to one's sense of loyalty to our Government's policies. There may well be doubt of the organization's hearty support of those policies, but if the
Bund, and its membership were, prior or subsequent to
January 1, 1940, engaged in illegal activities, other than
those claimed to prove the charge laid in the indictment,
the record is bare of evidence of any such.
The Draft Act was introduced in Congress in June, 1940,
was amended September 7 by adding § 8 (i) and as so
amended became law September 16, 1940. Prior to September 7 there, seems to have been no suggestion by the
Bund or its officers that, if passed, the law wpuld not be
binding on all and ought not to be obeyed. The oral evidence respecting this period is almost entirely that of
Luedtke, former secretary of the Bund, who was a defendant and turned 'state's evidence.

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

He states that the Bund and its members always favored
a compulsory selective service act. But, he said, they were
opposed to the principle of using a draft army to fight
against Germany. The Bund feared that the President
might use a conscript army by sending it abroad to fight
with England, against Germany. The Bund desired this
country to maintain neutrality by not having our soldiers
go to foreign shores. These views were then shared by
many loyal citizens, and some of them were enacted into
law by Congress. (See § 3 (e) of the Selective Training
and Service Act.)
There is no documentary evidence to contradict this
testimony. Nothing appears in the minutes of the national convention held August 31-September 2, 1940, or
in the testimony as to its proceedings, with reference to
selective service. It is true Luedtke says there was some
talk about it, and the stenographer was instructed to omit
this from the record; but he does not say that such talk
was in any way inconsistent with what he had testified as
to the Bund's attitude.
On September 7, while the bill was pending in the House,
an amendment was offered, was adopted as offered, and
remained in the bill when signed by the President.
It is
"8 (i) It is the expressed policy of the Congress that
whenever a vacancy is caused in the employment rolls of
any business or industry by reason of induction into the
service of the United States of an employee pursuant to
the provisions of this Act such vacancy shall not be filled
by any person who is a member of the Communist Party
or the German-American Bund" (50 U. S. C. App.

308 (i)).
Admittedly Kunze, probably with the approval of other
defendants, protested by letter and telegram to members
of Congress against the passage of the bill thus amended
and to the President against signing it. The Act became

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

325 U. S.

law September 16th. Shortly thereafter Kunze called a
meeting of unit leaders, at which many of the defendants
were present, including Keegan, the counsel of the Bund.
Keegan addressed the meeting and said that there was a
constitutional question involved, that members of the
Bund had been discriminated against (it is plain this statement applies to § 8 (i)); and they had a right to go to
court to establish their rights. Kunze recited his efforts
to prevent passage of the bill, said an article was to appear
in "Free American" entitled "No rights, no duties" and
that the Bund was going to fight the discrimination. He
explained that the article would make clear that if American citizens were deprived of their right to work they
should not be saddled with the burden of military service.
He said the Bund intended to fight this discrimination by
a test in court. Neither Keegan nor Kunze suggested that
Bund members should resist military service irrespective
of what happened in the test case. Luedtke, who is the
principal witness as to what occurred at this meeting, said
he never heard Keegan, Kunze, or any national leader
advise anyone to resist military service, irrespective of the
outcome of the test case; that it was the policy of the
Bund to get this provision (§ 8 (i)) out of the Act.
The sequel to this meeting was the issue of Bund Command No. 37 on October 1, 1940. (Some 49 such commands were offered in evidence, though none but No. 37
is relied on 'as containing any statement relevant to the
charge.) In this command, one of several subjects dealt
with was that of military service. The whole of this section is, according to the translation submitted by the
Government:
"4. Military Service: On October 16, of this year, all
citizens and non-citizens (male) who are of age, but who
have not passed their 36th year, must register with the
military authorities. This order must be complied with
unhesitatingly.

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

"We represent the standpoint, however, that AN INDUCTION into the MILITARY SERVICE is NOT justified, in as far it concerns Bund members and American
Germans, for in the Selective Service Law the citizenship
rights of Bund Members and the defenders of Germandom
are unconstitutionally severed!
"EVERY MAN, if he can, will REFUSE to do militarlt
duty until this law and all other laws of the country or
the states which confin the citizenship rights of Bund
members ARE REVOKED!
"We will fight to establish a precedent in this servile
matter!" [Emphasis as in original.]
Warner, the translator, a government witness, testified
that the German word "prizedenfall," here translated
"precedent," means "a test case in the legal sense," "a
case which they refer to as a precedent." He further testified that the German words translated above simply as the
English "if he can" may be fairly taken to mean "if he
can properly do so" or "if he can possibly do so." And he
further agreed that the word "Jeder," which he translated
as "every," might properly be translated as "each."
Thus altered, the phrase would read: "Each man if he
properly can . . . will refuse to do military service . . .
until this law etc."
As will be seen from what follows, the Government's
case is really pitched on this command, which it construes as a counsel to evade military service. The proof
went to great lengths to show that it reached various unit
leaders, and that they read it or made it available to the
members of their units. The evidence is that each of the
defendants who was a unit leader either read it to some
members of his unit or made it available to them, except
only Schneller.
The Bund held a convention in 1941 but there is no
evidence that selective service was there discussed. It
disbanded in December 1941. There is evidence that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

325 U. S.

leaders advised the members to keep together, to meet
for singing and social purposes; but no evidence that
anything was said about selective service or military
service.
If the promulgation or imparting of the contents of
Command No. 37, and concurrence in its purpose, is evidence of an intent to counsel evasion of military service,
the conviction of all the defendants, save Schneller, was
justified. But the Government evidently felt that a counsel to register for the draft, thus making one's liability to
service, his address, etc., matters of public record, and
then, if possible, to refuse service, if a supposed discrimination remained effective, could hardly be claimed to be a
counsel to evade.
This becomes the clearer if we analyze the provisions of
§ 11 of the Act (50 U. S. C. App. §311).
It subjects to punishment any person:
(1) who shall knowingly make or be a party to
making any false registration;
(2) who shall knowingly make or be a party to
making any false statement as to his or another's fitness or liability for service;
(3) who knowingly counsels, aids, or abets another
to evade registration or service;
(4) who in any manner shall knowingly fail or
neglect to perform any duty required of him by the
Act;
(5) who shall knowingly hinder or interfere by
force or violence with the administration of the Act;
(6) who shall conspire so to do.
It will be noted that resistance or refusal are nowhere
merrtioned, except as such refusal would constitute a neglect to perform a duty enjoined by the Act (4) or were
accompanied by force or violence (5). On the other hand,
there appear in collocation descriptions of two sorts of
evasion, false entries (1) and false statements (2) imme-

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

Opinion of ROBERTS, J.

diately followed by the denunciation of counselling "evasion" (3). Plainly enough the Act distinguishes evasion,
a species of fraudulent conduct, from mere neglect of duty
and from forcible and violent interference or resistance.
The classification so made corresponds with what
"evade" means to the common understanding, and the
effort of the draughtsman of the indictment to make evasion the equivalent of refusal or resistance, does violence
to such usage as well as to the statute.
"Evade" is defined as, "To escape; to slip away; to take
refuge in evasion; to use artifice in avoidance."
"Resist" is defined as, "To withstand; to oppose by
physical, mental, or moral power."
"Refuse" is defined as, "To decline to accept; to reject;
to decline to submit to or undergo."
Now the surest way of rendering oneself incapable of
evading military service, of slipping away or escaping it,
is to register. And the Bund command which is at the
core of the Government's case enjoins registration in the
strongest terms. That accomplished, a refusal to serve
may follow when the registrant is to be inducted. But
to counsel merely refusal is not made criminal by the
Act.
The provisions of § 8 (i) of the Act hardly need animadversion. They speak for themselves. Can it be that
criticism, that an effort to eliminate them from the Act,
or forthright advice to those discriminated against by
those provisions, to register but not, if it can be avoided,
to serve, unless those provisions have been sustained by
the courts as legal, amount to counselling evasion of service? The belief that validity of the other provisions of
the Act depends on the validity of that section may seem
foolish to us, but can wesay that the other defendants
did not believe what the Bund's lawyer told them about
that?
Thus the Government, recognizing that the issue and
communication of Command No.. 37 did not, in itself,

488

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

325 U. S.

constitute a counselling to evade military service, sought
to prove a sinister and undisclosed intent in connection
with it to counsel evasion. For this purpose it relied first
on the so-called un-American sentiments and statements
of the Bund; on articles which appeared in the "Free
American" and on proceedings had and speeches made at
the 1940 convention. But these evinced nothing bearing
on the charge laid in the indictment. At most they were
evidence that the defendants, or some of them, were the
kind of men who might be inclined to counsel evasion of
military service.
In addition, the Government introduced evidence as
to statements made by one or other of the defendants at
unit meetings or other gatherings of Bund members. It
must, in final analysis, sustain the judgment by this
evidence.
We think the evidence insufficient to overcome the
innocent purport of Command No. 37 and to fasten on
those who imparted that command a covert purpose
knowingly to counsel evasion of military service. The
testimony has been carefully examined. It cannot be
quoted in extenso. A summary must suffice.
Most, though not all, of the testimony as to oral statements by the defendants refers to occasions between September 16, 1940, the date of the Draft Act, and July 9,
1941. There is nothing of significance after the latter
date except what is hereinafter noted. During the period
mentioned Command No. 37 was read or made available
to members by unit leaders, was to some extent discussed;
and, during that period, Kunze, accompanied by some
of the national leaders, visited various units and discussed
the Act before groups. The testimony, in the main, is
directed to what Kunze, Keegan, and unit leaders said,
on these occasions.
Most of it amounts to this: It was stated that the Act
was unfair and discriminatory; that Bund members ought
not at the same time be deprived of civil rights and asked

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

Opinion of

489

ROBERTS, J.

to serve in the armed forces; that they should not be
called into the army until the discrimination was abolished; that the Bund would fight the discrimination; that
tle Bund would take steps to correct the unfairness of
the Act; that a lawyer would take care of it; that the
Bund would bring a test case if means could be devised
to that end; that those who could afford it should refuse
military service until the discrimination was removed;
that the Bund would try to get this provision out of the
Act; that § 8 (i) was unconstitutional; that the members
had to register but that it was not thought right to ask
them to do so while the discrimination continued, but that
they should enlist more or less under protest and wait
until their rights were restored to them. One witness
testified that Kunze once stated that if the members were
not treated right they did not have to bear arms and that
the Bund was going to make a test case of this.
Reference should be made to certain specific portions
of the testimony. A mail carrier testified that shortly
after the Act went into effect he spoke to the defendant
Belohlavek at the latter's office in Cleveland. Over objection that the evidence did not go to prove any conspiracy,
the court admitted it. The witness stated that he said
to Belohlavek:
"Joe, you are in the draft aren't you? He said, 'Yes.'
I said, 'What are you going to do if they send you to the
other side?' So he said, 'Well,'-it was a vulgar word-'I
will run to the other side and fight against them'."
A witness testified that, at a meeting of a German
Hiking Club in Buffalo early in 1942, Keegan referred to
the fact that two of his sons were in the Army, said he
felt sorry about them and, referring to those present, said:
"You boys are lucky in a way, you might evade military
service because you are foreign-born." When someone
asked how and why, Keegan explained: "By claiming being a conscientious objector." The witness went to Kee-

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

325 U. S.

gan afterwards, spoke to him privately and said: "Supposing what would happen to me as a naturalized American citizen if i had tried to evade military service by
claiming being a conscientious objector? Well, then, he
said, 'You would lose your citizenship.' Well, then, I said,
'Of course, to hell with that'." The witness was inducted
into the United States Army.
Throughout the entire testimony this is the only evidence that any defendant, in speaking of the draft or military service, ever by the use of the word "evade," or otherwise, gave any indication of a counselling to anyone to
escape military service. Under cross-examination the
witness testified that, in answering questions, Keegan had
said that the only way anyone could avoid serving was
by claiming and proving that he was a conscientious
objector.
There is evidence that, at a meeting held before the Act
was passed, Klapprott said he would not fight against
Germany and also that "the Draft Act would build up
an army that would be used against Germany" and that he
"would do everything" to prevent the passage of such an
Act.
As respects the defendant Knupfer, a witness testified:
"Well, Mr. Knupfer explained that a lot of German
people lose their jobs, and in a case like that we should
refuse to fight."
But, on cross-examination, the witness qualified his
testimony to the following effect:
"Q. And I believe you said something about that if they
were not allowed to have jobs then they should not be
called upon to fight, is that right? A. That is right.
"Q. And that is really the substance of what he said to
you at that meeting, is it not? A. Yes.

"Q Did you ever hear Mr. Knupfer suggest to you, or
to anyone else in -that meeting in your membership group,

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

that you should not register or that you should evade the
Selective Service Act in any way? A. He did not say exactly that we should not, but he came out with the point
that on account of the people losing jobs, if we not able
to work in this country we should not fight in this country."
The following testimony concerns statements attributed
to Kunze:
"Q. Well, now, with particular reference to the subject
of Selective Service, did he have anything further to say?
A. Well, he said one can always be a conscientious
objector.

"Q. And he told all of you that he was going to be a
conscientious objector? A. I did not say that he was going to be but he said that it would be wise to be. He said
'You always can become a conscientious objector.' That
was his wording.
"Q. Then do I understand now that Mr. Kunze never
said that he was going to be a conscientious objector, is
that so? A. I cannot recall the exact words that he said,
but he used that phraseology of conscientious objector."
Again, with respect to a statement of Kunze, it was
testified:
"He said that we were discriminatedi against, the German-Americans, and therefore we should not sign up for
the selective service draft, and he also meant that he
wanted to make a test case, but he did not say what kind
I asked him what would happen if I
of a test case ...
He said he did not
would not sign up for a draft ....
a test case in the
to
make
is
going
know himself, but he
East, you see. So I asked him what I should do. He said
it was up to the individual if he wants to sign up for the
draft."
With respect to the defendant Streuer, a witness testified that he "mentioned" that if "anybody has chances
to stay away from it [military service] which naturally

S492

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

ROBFTS,

J.

325 U. S.

sometimes happens to some people, it is all right for
them . .. " The same witness testified that Streuer never
told anybody to resist the draft or not to register.
Except for the so-called background
evidence pertaining to the general attitude and state of mind of the defendants this is all the significant testimony with respect
to any counselling to evade military service. It should be
added that practically every witness who testified to statements made at meetings, and to conversations of the various defendants, when asked whether he heard the defendant as to whom he was testifying advocate resistance to
military service or evasion of military service, answered
that he had never heard any such advice given by the
defendant in question.
When it is borne in mind that most of the defendants
were so-called unit leaders of small groups scattered from
the Atlantic to the Pacific coast, whose contacts with the
Bund and national officers consisted in attending annual
conventions, reading Bund commands to members of the
unit, and attending meetings to which Kunze or other
national officers came, it becomes plain how little evidence
there is in the record to convict them of a nation-wide
conspiracy to counsel evasion of the draft. In essence, the
case made by the Government amounts to this: That these
men were partisans of Germany; were against our going to
war with Germany, and might be disposed, therefore, to
counsel evasion of military service, and were all familiar
with Bund Command No. 37.
That the Government, in the last analysis, relied, to
make its case, upon the promulgation of Bund Command
No. 37, and that the trial judge so understood, seems plain
from his charge to the jury, to which exception was taken
and which was assigned as error. In that he said:
"There have been numerous references in the evidence
and in the arguments of counsel to a test case said to have
been proposed by the defendants or some of them to de-

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

Opinion of

]ROBERTS,

493

J.

termine the validity of Section 308 (i) of the Selective
Service and Traini,_ Act which states amongst other
things that it is the policy of Congress that Bund members be not employed to fill vacancies created by men in
employment being drafted into the armed service. I
charge you that if you should believe from the evidence
that the defendants, or any of them, proposed to test this
law by conspiring to counsel someone to violate the law,
then the fact that their purpose was to make a test case
is no defense to the charge here presented against them.
I repeat that the offense with which these defendants are
charged is a conspiracy to counsel others to evade service
in the armed forces of the United States, and such an
*offense would be complete, if as a fact the defendants did
unlawfully and knowingly conspire, combine or confederate together to counsel others to evade such service, and
this is true even if defendants had a bona fide honest intent to make a test case. For if there was a conspiracy
amongst these defendants, or any of them, having as its
object the violation of the Selective Service Law, knowingly, the reason for such violation is immaterial to you
in your consideration of the question of their guilt or
innocence." (Italics supplied.)
Here the honesty and the bona fides of the defendants
is said to be immaterial; the fact that they desired to test
the constitutionality of the law is said to be immaterial.
Nowhere is it stated that Bund Command No. 37, without more, does not amount to counselling to evade military service. Mingled with instructions that innocenM
motives were no excuse, and the intention to test the constitutionality of the law was no excuse, are statements
that these are not excuses where there is a conspiracy
knowingly to counsel evasion of military service. The
statements are mutually contradictory. One with innocent motives, who honestly believes a law is unconstitutional and, therefore, not obligatory, may well counsel

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

325 U. S.

that the law shall not be obeyed; that its command shall
be resisted until a court shall have held it valid, but this
is not knowingly counselling, stealthily and by guile, to
evade its command. Thus having charged that innocent
motives and a desire to test the validity of the law were
not a defense, the court added:
"In regard to the matter of a test case, I call your attention to the fact that no test case was ever made, nor is
there any evidence that any legal action was ever prepared, and the further fact that Bund Order No. 37, by its
very language, opposes military service until this and all
other laws, State and national, which the Bund considered
discriminatory, were repealed.
"Of course, if you believe beyond a reasonable doubt
that the defendants, or any of them, knowingly and unlawfully conspired to counsel evasion of the Selective
Service Law, and the matter of a test case was merely a
subterfuge to divert attention from their real purpose, you
should find such defendants guilty as charged."
This final statement seems to mean nothing short of
this, when taken in connection with what just preceded it:
If defendants had innocent motives they are nonetheless
guilty; if they had guilty motives they, of course, are
guilty. It is somewhat difficult to see how the jury could
reach any other than a verdict of guilty.
From what has been said above it will be seen that we
are of opinion, first, that the promulgation and communication of Bund Command No. 37 was not in itself a counsel to evade; second, that the evidence of the general
disposition of the petitioners either towards the Government of the United States or towards the Selective Service
Act did not make the Command such; third, that the
evidence and oral statements of the various petitioners
at committee meetings and unit meetings of the Bund
did not supply the basis for a finding, beyond a reasonable doubt, of counselling, or intending to counsel, or con-

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

BLACK, J., concurring.

spiring to counsel, evasion of military service within the
meaning of § 11 of the statute. We are of the view, therefore, that, on the case made by the Government, the defendants were entitled to the direction of acquittal, for
which they moved.
Other errors in the admission of evidence and in the
harge of the court are assigned by the petitioners. The
views we have expressed make it unnecessary to pass
upon these alleged errors.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the District Court for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK, concurring.

I wish to add a few words emphasizing certain reasons,
among others, which prompt me to concur in the Court's
reversal of these judgments on the ground that the evidence was insufficient to support conviction of the defendants.
The prosecution tried to prove that the defendants
counseled the members of the Bund to evade the Selectice Service Act. Its case necessarily rested upon the assumption that members of the Bund were subject to the
draft under that Act. It follows that if Bund members
were not lawfully subject to draft under the Act, no person could be convicted for advising Bund members to this
effect. Bund Command No. 37, an indispensable element
in the government's case, took the position that Bund
members were not subject to draft because "in the Selective Service Law the citizenship rights of the Bund members

. .

.

are unconstitutionally

severed."

This same

crucial question was seasonably raised and urged in the
courts below, and is argued here. Since I think the evidence inadequate to support the judgments, I am not compelled to pass on this grave constitutional challenge.

496

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
'BLACK,

J., concurring.

325 U. S.

Nevertheless, these defendants' conduct cannot fairly
be appraised without an understanding of the statutory
provisions against which they vehemently protested.
For testimony as to these protests was a vital part of the
evidence against them-without that part of the evidence
they could not possibly have been convicted. It is necessary to distinguish between honest objections directed at
legitimate wrongs, and sham protests which only obscure
the real purpose. Language and actions of these defendants which is crucial to their convictions must be judged
in the light of the fact that it followed passage of the
Selective Service Act which contained the following provisions.
Sections 8 (a) (b) of the Selective Service Act, 54 Stat.
885, 890, provides that persons who have been drafted
into and honorably discharged from military and naval
service shall be accorded high preferential rights in regard
to their reemployment by public or by private employers.
Congress declared in these sections that such an ex-service
man must be restored to his former position as though he
had "been on furlough or leave of absence during his period of training and service in the land or naval forces,"
and that he should be so restored to his former job without loss of seniority or other privileges accorded regular
employees. Section 308 (i) of the Act, however, declared
that
"It is the expressed policy of the Congress that whenever a vacancy is caused in the employment rolls of any
business or industry by reason of induction into the service of the United States of an employee pursuant to the
provisions of this Act such vacancy shall not be filled by
any person who is a member of the Communist Party or
the German-American Bund."
After the passage of this Act, these defendants found
themselves in this position. It was announced that Bund
members were -subject to draft to serve on the battlefront

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

BLACK, J., concurring.

where they might be seriously injured or lose their lives.
They found that the law under which they were said to
be subject to draft, commanded employers to reemploy
other citizens who had been honorably discharged from
the service, but the same law provided that when a Bund
member came back after an honorable service, with an
honorable discharge, no person anywhere could give him
reemployment without violating the express policy of
Congress.
It has been argued that these defendants had no legitimate reason to protest against these provisions because
they were obviously unconstitutional and amounted to no
more than an admonition; but they were an admonition
sounded by the highest legislative body of the nation.
It has also been suggested that these defendants should
have known both that the protested proscriptive provision of the Act was unconstitutional and that Courts
would sever it from other parts of the Act leaving Bund
members constitutionally subject to draft. But this
Court has said that
"The legislature could not thus impose upon laymen,
at the peril of criminal prosecution, the duty of severing
the statutory provisions and of thus resolving important
constitutional questions with respect to the scope of a
field of regulation as to which even courts are not yet in
accord." Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U. S.553, 564.
When we view the conduct of these defendants in all of
this setting, their vigorous language appears to have been
little, if any, more condemnatcry of the discriminatory
section of the Selective Service Act than language previously used by this Court with reference to legislation
of a similar pattern. The whole tone of their protest was
sounded graphically by their expression:
"No Civil Rights-No Military Duty! Draft Exempts
Bund Members!" Cf. Inglis v. Trustees of the Sailors

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

Snug Harbour,3 Pet. 99, 125, 168, 169. As to legislation
having a similar setting, this Court has said:
in the pursuit of happiness all avocations, all
honors, all positions, are alike open to every one, and . . .
in the protection of these rights all are equal before the
law. Any deprivation or suspension of any of these rights
for past conduct is punishment, and can be in no otherwise defined. . . . A bill of attainder is a legislative act
which inflicts punishment without a judicial trial ...
These bills are generally directed against individuals by
name; but they may be directed against a whole class."
Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277, 321-323. See also
Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333.
I cannot agree that the convictions of these defendants
can be sustained on the basis of the evidence presented
by the prosecution, weighed along with that section of the
Selective Service Act which would stigmatize honorably
discharged soldiers as unworthy to hold a job and earn a
living.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE.

I concur in the Court's judgment and in the opinion
to the effect that the evidence is insufficient to sustain the
conviction. I think that is true whether "evade," as used
in § 11 of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940,
means a species of fraudulent conduct or willful refusal
or resistance of induction. Without Command No. 37
the case collapses. But one sentence in it bears any possibility of construction as counseling evasion, whether in
the sense of refusal or of artifice or fraud. That sentence
is conditional, not absolute. The whole command, in my
judgment, is no more than vehement protest against § 8
(i), sheer political discussion. More than this is necessary.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE REED, MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, MR. JUSTICE

JACKSON and

I think the judgment should be affirmed as

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

to all the petitioners other than Schneller who is not shown
to have participated in the conspiracy.
Petitioners were national and local leaders of the German American Bund, whose membership was made up of
persons of German nationality or descent. They have
been convicted of a conspiracy to violate § 11 of the Selective Service Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 885, which imposes a
criminal penalty on any person "who knowingly counsels,
aids, or abets another to evade registration or service in the
land or naval forces."
The indictments charge that petitioners and others conspired to distribute among the members of the Bund
throughout the country a document known as Bund Order
No. 37 "which would counsel, direct and urge those to
whom the contents were made known that they should
evade, resist, and refuse service in the land or naval forces
of the United States." Order No. 37 was ostensibly published as a protest of the Bund against the adoption by
Congress of § 8 (i) as an amendment to the Selective
Service Act, which declared:
"It is the expressed policy of the Congress that whenever a vacancy is caused in the employment rolls of any
business or industry by reason of induction into the service
of the United States of an employee pursuant to the provisions of this Act such vacancy shall not be filled by any
person who is a member of the Communist Party or the
German-American Bund."
Order No. 37 was printed in the German language, and
an English translation of it was submitted to the jury.
After calling attention to the fact that all citizens who
have not passed their thirty-sixth year were required
by the Selective Service Act to register, it continued,
"This order must be complied with unhesitatingly" and
added:
"An induction into the military service is not justified,
in as far as it concerns Bund members and American Ger-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
SoNE,

C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

mans, for in the Selective Service Law the citizenship
rights of Bund members and the defenders of Germandom
are unconstitutionally severed!"
It concluded:
"Every man, if he can, will refuse to do military duty
until this law and all other laws of the country or the
States which confine the citizenship rights of Bund members are revoked!
"We will fight to establish a precedent in this servile
matter I"
The only substantial questions for our decision are
whether the jury could rightly find from the evidence that
Bund Order No. 37 did in fact counsel "another to evade
registration or service in the land or naval forces," and
whether petitioners' conspiracy to give such advice was
in the circumstances unlawful. The contentions are that
the conviction cannot be sustained because the advice in
Bund Order No. 37, that "every man if he can will refuse
to do military duty" until the law offensive to the Bund
was repealed, cannot be taken to counsel the evasion of
service in the military forces and because the alleged conspiracy was not unlawful since the Bund Order only counselled refusal to do military duty as a means of initiating
a case to test the validity of § 8 (i) of the Selective Service
Act, which is a lawful purpose.
There is abundant evidence showing a consistent purpose of the Bund and Bund members to promote in the
United States the interests of Nazi Germany. It is not
denied, and could not be, that there is ample evidence
from which the jury could have found that the Bund
members, and petitioners in particular, were opposed to
war with Germany and hostile to the Selective S.ervice
legislation of 1940 because they wished to prevent the
raising of an army for a war against Germany. It was
the theory of the Government, in presenting its case, that
respondents7 seized upon the proposed legislation, which

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

became § 8 (i) of the Selective Service Act of 1940, as
the ready implement of propaganda and agitation among
Bund members and their friends, as a means of hindering
and delaying the drafting of an army to fight against
Germany. The Government's position is that Bund
Order No. 37, which petitioners diligently circulated
among Bund members, was the product of the conspiracy,
and the means by which petitioners counselled members
to evade service in the armed forces.
It seems to be admitted, and indeed it cannot be denied,
that the evidence gives support to the Government's contention that petitioners had the inclination and the purpose to persuade Bund members to obstruct the operation
of the Selective Service Act, and that Bund Order No. 37
was their chosen means to accomplish that end. But it'
is insisted that the advice to "refuse to do military duty,"
given by the distribution of Bund Order No. 37 among
Bund members of draft age, was not an incitement to
"evade" military service which the statute proscribes.
Appealing to the dictionary as the ultimate arbiter of the
statutory construction, it is said that 'evade" connotes
conduct which is fraudulent or characterized by artifice
or craft, and suggests the idea of "escaping or slipping
away from" as opposed to resistance to or refusal to .do
military duty, which the Bund order counselled.
If the meaning which the dictionary ascribes to a word
standing in isolation is to be deemed controlling in the
construction of a statute in which the word appears, it
would seem to be of some importance to refer to the Latin
derivation of the word "evade" as meaning to go or. proceed away from, and to its modern usage, also recognized
by the dictionaries, as the synonym of "avoid," or
"escape" by effort or by force or by any other means, as
well as by artifice, craft or dexterity.1 As the draftsmen
1 The following are dictionary definitions of the word "evade":
Funk & Wagnalls: "To avoid by artifice; elude or get away from by

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

of statutes .do not usually limit the application of the
chosen word to only some of its common meanings without indicating their purpose to do so, the word, read in its
context in the statute, is far more revealing of the legislative purpose than the arbitrary selection of one of its
dictionary meanings to the exclusion of others which are
equally applicable.
Here the statute shows on its face that the word
"evade" is used in § 11 as meaning avoidance of or escape
from military service either by the failure or the refusal
to. perform a duty which would otherwise result in the
performance of the service, or by means of fraud, craft,
or artifice, in meeting the requirements of the Selective
Service Act. Section 11 imposes criminal penalties upon
any person "charged . . . with the duty of carrying out
any of the provisions of this Act . . . who shall knowingly fail or neglect to perform such duty." But it also
imposes penalties upon any such person "who shall knowingly make, or be a party to the' making, of any false,
improper, or incorrect registration, classification...
and any person who shall knowingly make, or be a party
to the making of, any false statement or certificate . . ."
It then provides for a like application of the Act to any
person "who otherwise evades registration or service in
the land or naval forces or any of the requirements of
this Act, or who knowingly counsels, aids, or abets another to evade registration or service in the land or naval
craft or force; save oneself from, as an impending evil; as, to evade
an argument or a crisis." Webster: "To escape; to slip away . . . to
get away from by artifice; to avoid by dexterity, subterfuge or ingenuity . . . to escape or avoid, often by the use of skill, dexterity,
or contrivance." Oxford: "To escape by contrivance or artifice from
. . . to avoid, save oneself from . . . to elude. Nonce-use: 'go out of.
Opposed to invade.'" Century: "To avoid by effort or contrivance;
escape from or elude in any way, as by dexterity, artifice, stratagem
or address; slip away from; get out of the way of . . to escape;
slip away."

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

forces or any of the requirements of this Act." (Italics
supplied.)
The implication from the use of the phrase "otherwise
evades" is plain that the acts of omission or refusal to
perform the prescribed duty and acts of ostensible performance by false statements and the like are equally
recognized by the statute as modes of evasion of military
service or of other requirements of the Act. It is thus
clear that the phrase "otherwise evades" was intended to
include both types of evasion whether effected by breaches
of duty or by false, fraudulent and deceptive acts, either
of which, if successful, would result in avoidance of or
escape from military service. In addition to all these
modes of evasion § 11 penalizes one who otherwise (by any
other mode) evades (avoids) service. Thus, on the face
of the statute there is no basis for saying that respondents
can elude its penalties because they counselled Bund
members to evade, .i. e., escape or avoid, military service by
refusing to perform military duty rather than by false
statements, artifices, or stratagem. There is no occasion
for giving the word "evade," as used in the statute, a more
strained or a narrower meaning than is recognized in its
context in § 11, which is also identical with the dictionary
definitions.
Such legislative history as there is supports this conclusion. Senator Burke, one of the authors of the bill which
became the Selective Service Act of 1940, at the hearings
on the bill before the Senate Committee on Military Affairs, stated that the provision of § 11 prohibiting the
counselling of evasion, applied "where one urged another
not to seek repeal of the law but to refuse to obey it while
it remained the law." Hearings, Senate Committee on
Military Affairs, 76th Cong., 3rd Sess., p. 156. Section
11 was derived from § 6 of the Selective Draft Act of 1917,
40 Stat. 80, which penalized any person who "evades or
aids another to evade the requirements of this Act." In

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

Frainav. United States, 255 F. 28, Fraina was indicted
under §§ 37 and 332 of the Criminal Code and of § 6 of
the Selective Service Act of 1917 for conspiracy with others
to "counsel . . . induce . . . divers persons . . . to
evade . . . the requirements of" the Selective Service
Act. The Court affirmed a conviction where the jury
found that the accused made a speech in order to counsel
and induce certain "conscientious objectors" "to refuse to
be bound, or refuse to act or accept the law, and refuse to
do their duty which is required by this law." Thus, before the adoption of the present Selective Service Act, it
was judicially determined that one who refuses to comply
with the requirements of the law "evades" the law, and
that one who counsels another to refuse to accept the law
or to do his duty which is required by the law can be found
guilty of inducing him to evade it. We must take it that
Congress, in adopting the term "evade" from § 6 of the
earlier draft act, and using it in like context in § 11 of
the 1940 Act, adopted and confirmed the judicial construction of the term as it appeared in the 1917 Act. Sessions
v. Romadka, 145 U. S. 29, 41-42; Manhattan Properties
v. Irving Trust Co., 291 U. S. 320, 336; United States v.
Elgin, J. &E. R. Co., 298 U. S. 492, 500; Missouri v. Ross,
299 U. S. 72, 75; Electric Battery Co. v. Shimadzu, 307
U. S. 5, 14.
The conclusion seems inescapable that petitioners, by
counselling Bund members to refuse to do military duty,
counselled evasion of military service, and that the jury's
verdict of violation of § 11 is therefore sustained by the
evidence. This is not any the less so because the Bund
order counselled members of the Bund to refuse to do military service until § 8 (i) was repealed. Bund Order No.
37 was published and distributed by petitioners after the
enactment of § 8 (i) of the Act. Its counsel therefore
was to violate the statute by evading military service, notwithstanding the order's suggestion that the refusal to do
military duty might cease whenever repeal occurred.

KEEGAN v. UNITED STATES.
478

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

The trial judge instructed the jury, rightly we think,
that "bona fide honest intent to make a test case is no
defense," saying: "If there was a conspiracy amongst these
defendants, or any of them, having as its object the violation of the Selective Service Law, knowingly, the reason
for such violation is immaterial to you in your consideration of the question of their guilt or innocence." Plainly
one who would assail the validity of a statute in a test
case can do so only by violating its provisions, here by
knowingly counselling another to evade registration or
service in the armed forces. One who thus evaded or
counselled evasion of military service could not defend
on the ground that he violated the Act in order to test its
constitutionality. He nevertheless does the act which the
statute prohibits and nonetheless intended to do it even
though his purpose was to establish that the statutory
prohibition is unconstitutional. There is no freedom to
conspire to violate a statute with impunity merely because its constitutionality is doubted. The prohibition of
the statute is infringed by the intended act in any case, and
the law imposes its sanctions unless the doubt proves to be
well founded.
Here petitioners laid no foundation for assailing the
validity of § 11 by reason of their doubts of the constitutionality of § 8 (i). No one can urge the unconstitutionality of a statute until he shows that it is applicable to
him and that he is injured by it. Marye v. Parsons, 114
U. S.325; Tyler v. The Judges, 179 U. S.405; Collins v.
Texas, 223 U. S.288; Roberts & Schaefer Co. v. Emmerson, 271 U. S.50, 54, 55; Utah Power Co. v. Pfost, 286 U. S.
165; Ashwander v. Tennessee Valley Authority, 297 U. S.
288, 324; Voeller v. Neilston Co., 311 U. S. 531, 537; Alabama State Federationof Labor v. McAdory, ante, p. 450.
Petitioners introduced no evidence. It does not appear
that any of them ever gave up any employment because of
their induction into the service of the United States pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

suant to the Selective Service Act, or that they were ever
refused or threatened with refusal of any employment because of their membership in the Bund or the Communist
Party. And even though § 8 (i) were to be deemed unconstitutional as applied to petitioners, that would not
affect the constitutionality of § 11 or relieve petitioners
from the consequences of their violation of § 11. For § 14
(b) of the Act provides "If any provision of this Act, or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is
held invalid, the remainder of the Act, and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances, shall
not be affected thereby."
The doctrine of People v. Powell, 63 N. Y. 88, on which
petitioners rely, that a criminal conspiracy to do an act
"innocent in itself" not known by the conspirators to be
prohibited must be actuated by some corrupt motive other
than the intention to do the act which is prohibited and
which is the object of the conspiracy, has never been accepted by this Court. To establish violation of § 11
nothing more need be proved than that respondents had
in contemplation all the elements of the offense which they
conspired to commit. United States v. Mack, 112 F. 2d
290, 292; cf. Hamburg-American Steam Packet Co. v.
UnitedStates, 250 F. 747, 759; Chadwick v. United States,
141 F. 225, 243. There is no contention that petitioners
did not know that the Selective Service Act required those
subject to it to do military service. And People v. Powell,
supra, was careful to point out that where the conspiracy
is to do an act which is not "innocent in itself" the offense
is "complete when the act is intentionally done," irrespective of any actual intention to violate the law. Here the
act prohibited was hardly "innocent in itself." The facts
found by the jury under instructions of the court constitute plain violation of § 11, and the jury's verdict is
supported by the evidence.

