HERB v. PITCAIRN.
Counsel for Parties.

for our decision it is therefore quite inaccurate for the
Court to conclude that our treason clause "taught a concept that differed from all historical models." That would
be true only if there was a purpose to depart from the concept of adhering to the enemy or the concept of overt acts
which had become ingrained in the antecedent English
law. We find no such purpose.

HERB v. PITCAIRN

ET

AL.,

RECEIVERS FOR

WABASH RAILWAY CO.
NO. 24. CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ILLINOIS.*

Decided April 23, 1945.
For purposes of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, which provides that "No action shall be maintained under this chapter unless commenced within two years from the day the cause of action
accrued," an action is "commenced" when instituted by service

of process issued out of a state court which is itself unable to
proceed to judgment but which by the state law or practice is
directed or permitted to transfer the proceeding, by change of venue
or otherwise, to a court which does have jurisdiction to hear and
determine the cause. P. 78.
384 Ill. 237, 281';- 51 N. E. 2d 277, 282, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 321 U. S. 759, to review judgments affirming dismissals of two suits under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act. An earlier opinion of this Court in this case
is reported in 324 U. S. 117.

Messrs. Roberts P. Elam and Mark D. Eagleton for
petitioner.
Messrs. CarletonS. Hadley, Geo. D. Burroughs, Bruce
A. Campbell, James A. Farmer and Walton Whitwell for
respondents.
*Together with No. 25, Belcher v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Co., also on certiorari to the Supreme Court of Illinois.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases were heretofore considered and disposition
was deferred to enable petitioners to apply for clarification of the grounds upon which the Supreme Court of
Illinois intended to rest its judgments. Herb v. Pitcairn,
324 U. S. 117.
That court, responding to petitioners' request, has made
clear that its judgment resulted solely from its interpretation of a federal statute of limitations applicable to actions under the Federal Employers' Liability Act which
provided: "No action shall be maintained under this
chapter unless commenced within two years from the day
the cause of action accrued." 35 Stat. 66, 45 U. S. C.
56; amended to three years, August 11, 1939, 53 Stat. 1404.
That court said (March 21, 1945) that it "did not pass
upon any of the questions certified except to apply the
limitation of two years fixed in the last-mentioned statute
after deciding whether said cause had been commenced
when it was filed in the city court of Granite City, Illinois."
And it added: "We observed that section 6 of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act required the plaintiff to commence an action within two years from the date of the
injury; that, the city court of Granite City had no jurisdiction of the cause for the reasons set forth in the opinion, and that,' under Illinois law, commencing an action
means starting it in a court that has the power to decide
the matter involved, to issue process, to bring the parties to
the particular cause before it and to render and enforce
a judgment on the merits of said cause."
We are unable to agree to an interpretation of the federal statute by which a case is not "commenced" for its
purposes unless instituted in a court with power to proceed
to final judgment. An action is "commenced" for these
purposes as a matter of federal law when instituted by

HOOVER CO. v. COE.
77

Syllabus.

service of process issued out of a state court, even if one
which itself is unable to proceed to judgment, if the state
law or practice directs or permits the transfer through
change of venue or otherwise to a court which does have
jurisdiction to hear, try, and otherwise determine that
cause. Whether the action would be barred if state law
made new or §upplemental process necessary is a question
not involved here and not decided. Clearly, however,
when process has been adequate to bring in the parties
and to start the case on a course- of judicial handling which
may lead to final judgment without issuance of new initial
process, it is enough to commence the action within the
federal statute. As these cases were dismissed solely because of a contrary view, the judgments are reversed and
the causes remanded to the Supreme Court of Illinois
for further proceedings not inconsistent with our opinions herein.

HOOVER COMPANY v. COE, COMMISSIONER OF
PATENTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 486. Argued March 5, 1945.-Decided April 30, 1945.
1. A federal district court has jurisdiction of a suit under R. S. § 4915
to review a decision of the Board of Appeals of the Patent Office
rejecting a claim as not reading on the disclosure in the application
for a patent. Pp. 80, 83.
Jurisdiction is not defeated by the fact that an adjudication
favorable to the applicant might not conclude all possible qu.estions as to the applicant's right to a patent.
2. The right of the applicant in such case to sue under R. S. § 4915.
is supported by the language of the statute, its legislative history,
administrative practice, and judicial 'construction. Pp.. 80, 84.
3. Hill v. Wooster, 132 U. S. 693, distinguished. P. S9.
144 F. 2d 514, reversed.

