BORDEN CO. v. BORELLA.

679

Counsel for Parties.

BORDEN COMPANY v. BORELLA

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 688.

Argued April 6, 1945.-Decided June 11, 1945.

1. A manufacturing corporation owned and operated an office building
in which 58% of the rentable space was used for its central offices,
where its production of goods for interstate commerce was administered, managed and controlled, although the goods were actually
produced at plants located elsewhere. Held that maintenance employees of the building were engaged in an "occupation necessary
to the production" of goods for interstate commerce, within the
meaning of § 3 (j) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, and were
therefore covered by the Act. Pp. 680, 684.
2. In an economic sense, executive officers and administrative employees working in the central office building of an industrial organization are actually engaged in the production of goods, and the
maintenance employees working in such a building are engaged in
occupations necessary to that production. P. 683.
3. In the absence of any contrary evidence, it can not be assumed
that Congress in the Fair Labor Standards Act referred to production in other than its ordinary and comprehensive economic sense.
P. 684.
145 F. 2d 63, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 706, to ;eview the reversal of a

judgment for the defendant, 52 F.'Supp. 952, in a suit to
recover overtime compensation and liquidated damages
under the Fair Labor Standards Act.
Mr. JohnA. Kelly, with whom Messrs. GeorgeF. Keenan
and Henry Kirk Greer were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. A. H. Frisch,with whom Messrs. George W. Newgass and Bertram S. Nayfack were on the brief, for
respondents.
Miss Bessie Margolin, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy,Messrs. Chester T. Lane and DouglasB. Maggs were

680

I OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

on the brief, for the Administrator of the Wage and Hour
Division, United States Department of Labor, as amicus
curiae,urging affirmance.
MR. JUsTICE MURPHY delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Once again, as in Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S.
517, we are required to consider the application of the Fair
Labor Standards Act of 1938' to employees engaged in
activities relating to the maintenance and operation of a
building.'
In the Kirschbaum case we held that the Act does apply
to such employees working in a loft building in which
large quantities of goods for interstate commerce are
physically produced. In the instant case, the porters, elevator operators and night watchmen in question work in a
24-story office building in the business district of New
York City. The building is owned and operated by the
petitioner, the Borden Company, which is a New Jersey
corporation engaged in the business of manufacturing milk
products and other food products. Petitioner occupies
approximately 17 of the 24 floors and 58% of the total
rentable area. The remainder of the office space is leased
to various tenants, none of which was found by the District Court to produce, manufacture, handle, process or2 in
any other manner work on any goods in the building.
Petitioner has manufacturing plants and factories in
both the United States and Canada and its products are
sold in large volumes throughout this and other countries.
These establishments are admittedly engaged in the production of goods for interstate commerce. The heart of
152 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq.
2 The leasing of space to these tenants is incidental to the use of
the building by the Borden Company and we need not consider
whether the activities of the tenants are such as to constitute production of goods for commerce.

BORDEN CO. v. BORELLA.
579

Opinion qf the Court.

this industrial empire, however, lies in the central office
building in New York City. Here the entire enterprise
is supervised, managed and controlled.
In this building the directors meet and the corporate
officers conceive and direct the policies of the company.
Although geographically divorced from the manufacturing plants, employees working in this building dictate,
control and coordinate every step of the manufacturing
processes in the individual factories. By means of direct
teletype wires, they maintain detailed and meticulous
supervision of the plants, the local superintendents exercising discretion only in the conduct of routine matters.
While no products are actually processed or sold in the
building, the purchase of raw materials and supplies, the
methods of production, the amounts to be produced, the
quantity and character of the labor, the safety measures,
the budgeting and financing, the legal matters, the labor
policies and the maintenance of the plants and equipment
are all directed from this building. Such are the activities
of petitioner's central office which is maintained, serviced
and guarded by the respondent employees.
The respondents brought this suit against petitioner to
recover overtime compensation and liquidated damages,
plus reasonable counsel fees. The District Court denied
relief, holding that they were not entitled to the benefits
of the Act under the rule of the Kirschbaum case.8 52 F.
Supp. 952. The Second Circuit Court of Appeals reversed
the judgment. 145 F. 2d 63. We took the case because
a The District Court also ruled that the preparation and drafting
of labels, photostat and advertising material in petitioner's central
office did not constitute "production of goods" within the meaning
of the Act and that the case in this respect was controlled by McLeod
v. Threlkeld, 319 U. S. 491, and Stoike v. First National Bank, 290
N. Y. 195, 48 N. E. 2d 482. The Circuit Court of Appeals, however,
found it unnecessary to pass upon this phase of the case. We likewise have no occasion to express our views on this matter since the
determination of the main issue is sufficient to dispose of this case.

682

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

of the asserted conflict with the decision of the Tenth
Circuit Court of Appeals in Rucker v. First National Bank,
138 F. 2d 699, and because of the importance of the issue
as to the application of the Kirschbaum doctrine to such
facts as are here presented.
Under § 7 (a) of the Act, overtime compensation must
be paid to all employees "engaged in commerce or in the
production of goods for commerce." As to the latter category of employees it is unnecessary that they directly participate in the actual process of producing goods inasmuch
as § 3 (j) provides that "for the purposes of this Act an
employee shall be deemed to have been engaged in the
production of goods if such employee was employed . . .
in any process or occupation necessary to the production
thereof, in any State." Our problem thus is to determine
whether the respondent maintenance employees are engaged in a process or occupation necessary to the production of goods for commerce so as to come within the ambit
of § 7 (a).
The Kirschbaum case made it clear that the work of
maintenance employees in a building where goods were
physically manufactured or processed had "such a close
and immediate tie with the process of production for commerce, and was therefore so much an essential part of it,
that the employees are to be regarded as engaged in an
occupation 'necessary to the production of goods for commerce.'
316 U. S. at 525-526. The maintenance of a
safe, habitable building, with adequate light, heat and
power, was deemed necessary to the production of goods
for commerce. See also Walton v. Southern Package
Corp., 320 U. S. 540; Armour & Co. v. Wantock, 323 U. S.
126. The only distinction between this and the Kirschbaum case lies in the fact that here the employees work
in a building where production of goods is administered,
managed and controlled raiher than carried- on physically.
We hold, however, that this distinction is without eco-

BORDEN CO. v. BORELLA.
679

Opinion of the Court.

nomic or statutory significance and that it cannot form
the basis for concluding that the respondent employees
are engaged in occupations unnecessary to the production
of goods for commerce.
In an economic sense, production includes all activity
directed to increasing the number of scarce economic
goods. It is not simply the manual, physical labor in7
volved in changing the form or utility of a tangible article.
Such labor is but an integral part of the coordinated productive patteri of modern industrial organizations.
Equally a part of that pattern are the administration,
management and control of the various physical processes
together with the accompanying accounting and clerical
activities. Economic production, in other words, requires
planning and control as well as manual labor.' He who
conceives or directs a productive activity is as essential
to that activity as the one who physically performs it.
From a productive standpoint, therefore, petitioner's
executive officers and administrative employees working
in the central office building are actually engaged in the
production of goods for commerce just as much as are
those who process and work on the tangible products in
the various manufacturing plants. And since the respondent maintenance employees stand in the same
relation th this production as did the maintenance workers
in the Kirschbaum case, it follows that they are engaged
in occupations "necessary" to such production, thereby
qualifying for the benefits of the Fair Labor Standards
Act.
'In the words of the court below, "As was observed over a century
ago, every process of manufacture (indeed for that matter every
process by which men can affect the outside world at all) may be
resolved into the movement of things in space, and it would be
absurd to say that, although what the artisans do in the factory, or
the dispatching clerks do upon the shipping platforms, is 'necessary'
to 'production,' the directions they receive that govern all the movements they impart, are not 'necessary.'" 145 F. 2d at 65.

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

We find nothing in the Act militating against this conclusion. Sections 7 (a) and 3 (j) both speak of production
without attempting to limit its meaning to physical labor.
Section 3 (j) in particular defines the term "produced" not
only in the physical sense of manufacturing, mining and
handling but also in the more general sense of producing
or "in any other manner" working on goods. In the absence of any contrary evidence we are unable to assume
that Congress used the term in other than its ordinary and
comprehensive economic sense. Indeed, the fact that
§ 13 (a) (1) specifically excludes from the provisions of
§§ 6 and 7 those employees employed in a bona fide executive, administrative or professional capacity is clearly
consistent with the conclusion that these activities are
included within the concept of production as that term is
used in the Act and that full effect should be given that
fact unless otherwise provided. Thus where, as here, the
work of employees is essential or necessary to such executive, administrative or professional activities of a productive nature the employees fall within the purview of § 7 (a)
even though those directly engaged in such activities axe
by express exemption precluded from sharing in its
benefits.
Nor do we find in the interpretative principles laid down
in the Kirschbaum case any basis for holding that the
respondent employees are not "necessary" to petitioner's
production. Since they bear the same relation to production as did the maintenance employees in that case they
cannot be considered any less essential to production; nor
can this conclusion have any different "implications in the
relation between state and national authority." 316 U. S.
at 525. Petitioner's industrial organization is such that
the operation and maintenance of a central office building
is essential to the economy, efficiency and continuity of
production. In short, this office is "part of an integrated
effort for the production of goods," Armour & Co. v.

BORDEN CO. v. BORELLA.
679

STONE,

C. J., dissenting.

Wantock, supra, 130, and the statutory consequences that

flow from that fact cannot be avoided.
The judgment below is
Affirmed.
MR. JuSTICE FRANKFURTER concurs in the result.

dissenting.
No doubt there are philosophers who would argue, what
is implicit in the decision now rendered, that in a complex
modern society there is such interdependence of its members that the-activities of most of them are necessary to
the activities of most others. But I think that Congress
did not make that philosophy the basis of the coverage
of the Fair Labor Standards Act. It did not, by a "housethat-Jack-built" chain of causation, bring within the sweep
of the statute the ultimate causa causarum which result
in the production of goods for commerce. Instead it defined production as a physical process. It said in § 3 (j)
"'Produced' means produced, manufactured, mined,
handled, or in any other manner worked on" and declared
that those who participate in any of these processes "or
in any process or occupation necessary to" them are
engaged in production and subject to, the Act.
In Kirschbaum Co. v. Walling, 316 U. S. 517, after pointing out that Congress did not undertake to make the Act
applicable to all occupations which affect commerce, we
held that the services of elevator men and other service
employees in a manufacturing loft building, where those
services contributed to and assisted the manufacturing
process carried on there, were within the Act. But
nothing then decided or said seems to me to justify our
saying that the elevator men and other maintenance employees in an office building, in which no manufacturing
is done, either participate in or are necessary to the manufacturing process, because tenants of its building are exMR. CHIEF JUSTICE STONE,

686

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
STONE, C. J., dissenting.

325 U. S.

ecutive or administrative officers of a company which does
manufacturing elsewhere.
The fact that it is convenient or even necessary for the
president of the company to ride in an elevator does not
seem to me to meet the requirement of the statute that
the occupation must be one necessary to the physical
process of production. The statute includes those who
are necessary to that process, but it does not also include
those :who are necessary to them. The manufacturing
process could proceed without many activities which are
necessary or convenient to the executive officers of a manufacturing company but which do not in any direct or
im '
ediate manner contribute to the manufacturing process, as did the services rendered in Kirschbaum Co. v.
Walling, supra.
The services rendered in this case would seem to be no
more related, and no more necessary to the processes of
production than the services of the cook who prepares
the meals of the president of the company or the chauffeur
who drives him to his office. Compare McLeod v.
Threlkeld, 319 U. S. 491. All are too remote from the
physical process of production to be said to be, in any
practical sense, a part of or necessary'to it.
I would reverse the judgment.
"MR. JUsTIcE

ROBERTS joins in this opinion.

