ANGELUS MILLING CO. v. COMM'R.

293

Opinion of the Court.

ANGELUS MILLING CO. v. COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 610. Argued March 7, 8, 1945.-Decided May 21, 1945.
1. The evidence in this case was insufficient to establish that the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, by investigating the merits of
a claim for refund of processing taxes paid under the Agricultural
Adjustment Act of 1933, had waived compliance with requirements
of Treasury Regulations as to the form of the claim; and the claim
was therefore properly rejected. P. 297.
2. The requirements of TreAsury Regulations as to the information
which shall be contained in the claim for refund were not satisfied
even though the claim of the taxpayer together with that of another
might have furnished the required data. P. 299.
144 F. 2d 469, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

323 U. S. 703, to review the affirmance of a

decision of the Tax Court, 1 T. C. 1031, dismissing a proceeding for refund of a processing tax paid under the
Agricultural Adjustment Act.
Mr. Prew Savoy for petitioner.
Mr. J.Louis Monarch, with whom Solicitor General
Fahy, Assistant Attorney General Samuel 0. Clark, Jr.,
Messrs. Sewall Key and Newton K. Fox were on the brief,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit under Title VII of the Revenue Act of
1936, 49 Stat. 1648, 1747, 7 U. S. C. ยง 644 et seq., for a
refund of processing taxes paid under the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933. The problem'of the case derives
from the procedural requirements of a claim for such a
refund.

294

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

The petitioner, Angelus Milling Company, known until
June, 1933 as the Middleport Flour Mills, Inc., was a
processor of wheat, with its principal office in Niagara
Falls, New York. During the years for which the refund
is claimed-1933 to 1936-its processing operations were
closely connected with those of the Niagara Falls Milling
Company. The two companies had the same officers,
employees, and majority stockholder, and a joint bank
account. They also had a common set of books, but the
respective transactions of the two companies-purchases,
costs of manufacture, sales-were entered in their separate
accounts on the books. Between July 9, 1933, and January 31, 1935, the companies filed joint processing tax
returns. Between February 1, 1935, and November 30,
1935, Niagara filed returns in its name on behalf of itself
and petitioner.
After United States v. Butler, 297 U. S. 1, invalidated
the processing tax, three claims were filed with the Commissioner on June 22, 1936, all stating the name of the
taxpayer and claimant as "Niagara Falls Milling Co., Inc.
and/or Middleport Flour Mills, Inc." Each of these claims
is for only part of the period during which the tax was
paid, and their total is $434,045.27. Admittedly the form
of these claims did not satisfy the requirements of the
statute' or the authorized Treasury Regulations.! They
I Section 903 of Title VII of the 1936 Revenue Act, 49 Stat. 1648,
1747, requires that no refund be made or allowed "unless . . . a claim
for refund has been filed . . . in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Commissioner with the approval of the Secretary. All
evidence relied upon in support of such claim shall be clearly set forth
under oath."
2The applicable regulations provide for the making of claims on
prescribed forms, presentation of the grounds urged, and submission
of evidence, etc. Treas. Reg. 96, Arts. 201, 202, 601, 603, 605, 606.
The only information furnished in these claims is the name and address
of the joint claimants, and a statement of the dates and amounts of
the tax payments made by the Niagara Milling Company.

ANGELUS MILLING CO. v. COMM'R.
293

295

Opinion of the Court.

were filed on an old Form 843 and not on the required
Form P. T. 79. While these claims were still undetermined, Niagara, on June 30, 1937, filed a claim in the sum
of $436,231.73. This claim was in due form but was filed
by Niagara on its own behalf alone. Thereafter, on
August 15, 1938, petitioner filed a claim, designated
"Amendment to Claim," for itself alone for the refund of
$145,839.12. While this claim was submitted on Form P.
T. 79, it failed to give the information required by the form
and the regulations, containing merely an apportionment
between Angelus and Niagara of the three earlier claims.
An attached affidavit stated that this claim "was originally
filed on the 22nd day of June 1936 iin the name of the Niagara Falls Milling Company and/or Middleport Flour
Mills, Inc." The Commissioner, on May 23, 1941, denied
this claim.
To review this disallowance, petitioner brought proceedings in the United States Processing Tax Board of Review.
A motion to dismiss, because of a fatal defect in the
claim, was denied by the Board, but the Commissioner in
his answer stood on his ground that the Board was with-out jurisdiction to entertain the proceedings. At this stage
in the litigation Congress abolished the Processing Tax
Board of Review and transferred its jurisdiction to the
present Tax Court. That Court granted the Commissioner's renewed motion to dismiss, 1 T. C. 1031, and the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second.Circuit affirmed.
144 F. 2d 469. We brought the case here, 323 U. S. 703,
because conflict was urged with the decision in United
States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., 288 U. S. 62.'
Petitioner's claim for*recovering processing taxes paid
by it was properly rejected by the Commissioner if it did
3

After we granted certiorari in this case, the same question of timeliness as to filing of the petition emerged as is raised in Commissioner
v. Estate of Bedford, ante, p. 283. The decision in the Bedford case
governs this.

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

not satisfy the conditions which Congress directly and
through the rule-making power given to the Treasury laid
down as a prerequisite for such refund. Insofar as Congress has made explicit statutory requirements, they must
be observed and are beyond the dispensing power of Treasury officials. Tucker v. Alexander, 275 U. S. 228, 231232; United States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., 288 U. S.
62, 71; United States v. Garbutt Oil Co., 302 U. S. 528,
533. Without needless elaboration, we conclude that there
is nothing in what Congress has explicitly commanded to
bar the claim. The effective administration of these
modern complicated revenue measures inescapably leads
Congress to authorize detailed administrative regulations
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. He may insist
upon full compliance with his regulations. See United
States v. Memphis Cotton Oil Co., supra, at 71; Commissioner v. Lane-Wells Co., 321 U. S. 219, 223-224. It is
hardly contended that the confusing series of petitioner's
claims which we have summarized, whether singly or in
conjunction, obeyed the regulations. For such default the
Commissioner could have rejected the claims out of hand.
He did not do that, and by what he did do he has given
rise to the contention that he -waived the requirement
of his regulations. The basis of this claim of waiver is
that the Commissioner through his agents dispensed
with the formal requirements of a claim by investigating
its merits.
Candor does not permit one to say that the power of
the Commissioner to waive defects in claims for refund
is a subject made crystal-clear by the authorities. The
question has been somewhat complicated by cases involving amendments of claim. Thus, in United States v.
Memphis Cotton Oil Co., supra, a claimant's amendment
was allowed because filed before hiis.original claim was rejected on formal grounds. According to what was there
said, there can be no amendment after a rejection though

ANGELUS MILLING CO. v. COMM'R.
293

297

Opinion of the Court.

the Commissioner had examined the claimant's books and
tentatively found an overpayment. See Edwards v. Malley, 109 F. 2d 640; 10 Mertens, Law of Federal Income,
Taxation (1942) ยง 58.19. It smacks too much of the
strangling niceties of common law pleading to find no
existing claim to which a curative amendment may be
attached, although there has been an examination of the
merits, simply because of the prior rejection of a formally
defective claim and yet find waiver of a formal defect
merely because an examination of the merits by the Commissioner manifests consideration of the claim.
Treasury Regulations are calculated to avoid dilatory,
careless, and wasteful fiscal administration by barring incomplete or confusing claims. Tucker V.Alexander,supra,
at 231; Commissioner v. Lane-Wells Co., supra, at 223224. But Congress has given the Treasury this rulemaking power for self-protection and not for self-imprisonment. If the Commissioner chooses not to stand on his
own formal or detailed requirements, it would be making
an empty abstraction, and not a practical safeguard, of a
regulation to allow the Commissioner to invoke technical
objections after he has investigated the merits of a claim
and taken action upon it. Even tax administration does
not as a matter of principle preclude considerations of
fairness.
Since, however, the tight net which the Treasury Regulations fashion is for the protection of the revenue, courts
should not unduly help disobedient refund claimants to
slip through it. The showing should be unmistakable
that the Commissioner has in fact seen fit to dispense with
his formal requirements and to examine the merits of the
claim. It is not enough that in some roundabout way the
facts supporting the claim may have reached him. The
Commissioner's attention should have been focused on the
merits of the particular dispute. The evidence should be
clear that the Commissioner understood the specific claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1944.
Opinion of the Court.

325 U. S.

that was made even though there was a departure from
form in its submission. We do not think that the petitioner has made out such a case here.
The evidence of waiver largely rests upon a letter from
a General Deputy Collector requesting an examination of
certain books, and upon affidavits of two accountants, one
an officer of the company, to the effect that the Commissioner examined petitioner's books in order to consider the
claim. We agree with the Tax Court that the evidence is
insufficient to establish waiver. The letter from the General Deputy Collector requesting petitioner's president to
allow examination of the "records of the Middleport Flour
Mills, Inc., and Angelus Flour Mills, Inc." was in connection with the claim which had been filed by the Niagara
Milling Company. In view of the confusing identity of
interest of the two companies, it is not unreasonable to
attribute this inquiry, as did the Tax Court, to Niagara's
claim and not to petitioner's. For similar reasons, the
affidavits regarding the purpose of the Commissioner's representatives bear interpretation of a like significance.
In the Memphis Cotton Oil case, where an amendment
was allowed out of time, the Deputy Commissioner, after
an audit of the taxpayer's books, notified the taxpayer in
writing that its refund claims had been considered and
that its taxes had been readjusted in accordance with a
proven overassessment. Similar evidence of preoccupation by the Commissioner with the particular claim and
controversy has been'offered in cases where waiver was
recognized. See, e. g., United States v. Elgin Watch Co.,
66 F. 2d 344; United States v. Humble Oil & Refining
Co., 69 F. 2d 214; Weihman v. United States, 4 F. Supp.
155. To be sure, it is not essential for the establishment
of a waiver that the Commissioner communicate his ruling on the merits to the taxpayer. But in the absence of
such explicitness the implication that formal requirements were dispensed with should not be tenuously argu-

ANGELUS MILLING CO. v. COMM'R.
293

299

Opinion of the Court.

mentative. No more than that can be squeezed out of
the materials in this record. Thus it is claimed that the
Commissioner offered a refund, subject to offsets, to the
Niagara Falls Milling Company. But this rather confirms
the indication the Commissioner was bent on Niagara's
claim. The Commissioner may have acquired knowledge
of petitioner's affairs but only by the way, incidentally to
his investigation of Niagara's claims. Petitioner has
failed to sustain his burden of showing that the Commissioner, by examining the facts of petitioner's claim in order
to determine the merits, dispensed with the exactions of
the regulations.
An additional argument of the petitioner need not detain us long. It urges that taking the claims filed by
Niagara and petitioner together, they furnish all the data
required by the regulations. But it is not enough that
somewhere under the Commissioner's roof is the information which might enable him to pass on a claim for
refund. The protection of the revenue authorizes the
Commissioner to demand information in a particular
form, and he is entitled to insist that the form be observed
so as to advise him expeditiously and accurately of the
true nature of the claim.
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIcE DOUGLAS

dissents.

