HICKS v. FEIOCK

1305

Opinion in Chambers

HICKS, DISTRICT ATTORNEY FOR COUNTY OF
ORANGE, CALIFORNIA, ACTING ON BEHALF OF
FEIOCK v. FEIOCK
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-288.

Decided October 23, 1986

An application to stay enforcement of the California Court of Appeal's
judgment is granted pending the timely filing and subsequent disposition
of a petition for certiorari. A state trial court, holding respondent in
civil contempt for failure to make previously ordered child support payments, had applied a state statute providing that proof of service on a
parent of a valid child support order, together with proof of noncompliance, constitutes prima facie evidence of contempt of court. Granting
habeas corpus relief, the Court of Appeal held that the statute violated
the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause because it created a
mandatory presumption impermissibly shifting to the nonpaying parent
the burden of proving inability to comply with the child support order.
It is likely that at least four Justices will vote to grant certiorari, and
that the applicant will prevail on the merits. Moreover, the balance of
equities clearly weighs in favor of a stay.
JUSTICE O'CONNOR,

Circuit Justice.

Applicant requests that I issue a stay pending the filing
and disposition of a petition for certiorari to review the judgment of the California Court of Appeal, Fourth Appellate
District, Division Three. The California Court of Appeal

judgment granted Phillip William Feiock's petition for habeas
corpus, holding that the United States Constitution requires
that the government prove beyond a reasonable doubt in a
civil contempt proceeding that Mr. Feiock was able to comply
with a previous court order. The Orange County Superior
Court had ordered Mr. Feiock to make child support payments, and after Mr. Feiock failed to comply with this court
order, he was held in civil contempt. He was sentenced to a
25-day suspended sentence, placed on probation, and ordered
to begin making his child support payments or prepare himself for incarceration. At the civil contempt hearing, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion in Chambers

479 U. S.

trial court applied Cal. Civ. Proc. Code Ann. ยง 1209.5 (West
1982), which provides that proof that a court of competent jurisdiction had issued a child support order which was filed
and served on a parent, together with proof of noncompliance, constitutes prima facie evidence of a contempt of court.
On petition of Mr. Feiock, the California Court of Appeal
granted a writ of habeas corpus and annulled the judgment of
contempt. In re Feiock, 180 Cal. App. 3d 649, 225 Cal.
Rptr. 748 (1986). The court held that ยง 1209.5 was unconstitutional under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment because it created a mandatory presumption
that shifted the burden of proof to the defendant, requiring
him to prove that he was unable to comply with the child support order. The court relied on this Court's decisions involving the use of mandatory presumptions in criminal prosecutions. See Sandstrom v. Montana, 442 U. S. 510 (1979);
Ulster County Court v. Allen, 442 U. S. 140 (1979). The
Supreme Court of California denied the State's petition for
review.
My obligation as a Circuit Justice in considering a stay
application under 28 U. S. C. ยง 2101(f) and Rule 44 of this
Court is "to determine whether four Justices would vote to
grant certiorari, to balance the so-called 'stay equities,' and
to give some consideration as to predicting the final outcome
of the case in this Court." Gregory-PortlandIndependent
School District v. United States, 448 U. S. 1342 (1980)
These factors lead me to
(REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
conclude that the request for a stay should be granted.
I have serious doubts about the validity of the California
Court of Appeal's conclusion in light of this Court's nearly
unanimous decision in United States v. Rylander, 460 U. S.
752 (1983). In Rylander, this Court held that an alleged contemner has the burden of showing a current inability to comply with a court order, and that a contemner must overcome
a presumption of ability to comply with a court order. Moreover, the decision of the California Court of Appeal that the

HICKS v. FEOCK
1305

Opinion in Chambers

State must prove a parent's ability to comply with a child
support order has far-reaching implications for the enforcement of child support obligations. I think it fair to say,
therefore, that at least four Justices would vote to grant
certiorari.
Furthermore, given this Court's holding in
Rylander, I conclude that applicant is likely to prevail on
the merits.
Finally, the balance of equities clearly weighs in favor of a
stay. The father is required merely to comply with an admittedly valid child support obligation. The decision of the
California Court of Appeal, however, will make it far more
difficult for the State of California to enforce child support
payments. As even the Court of Appeal observes, its judgment permits recalcitrant parents to "literally 'sit on [their]
hands,' and defend any contempt allegation by relying on the
prosecution's burden of proof." 180 Cal. App. 3d, at 654, 225
Cal. Rptr., at 750. The burden placed on the State, custodial parents, and children is unquestionably sufficient to support a stay. Finally, because the Orange County Superior
Court has not yet dismissed the judgment of contempt it appears that this case is not moot. Cf. California v. Brown
475 U. S. 1301 (1986) (REHNQUIST, J., in chambers).
I therefore grant the requested stay of the enforcement of
the judgment of the California Court of Appeal pending the
timely filing and subsequent disposition of a writ of certiorari
in this case.
It is so ordered.

