LEDBETTER v. BALDWIN

1309

Opinion in Chambers

LEDBETTER, COMMISSIONER, GEORGIA DEPT. OF
HUMAN RESOURCES v. BALDWIN ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-448.

Decided December 18, 1986

An application to stay the Federal District Court's order, pending appeal,
is granted. In respondents' suit challenging the constitutionality of applicant's regulations that implemented the federal-law requirement that
child support payments made to certain children living with the family
be considered in determining the family's need for payments under the
Aid to Families with Dependent Children Program, the District Court
held that the regulations were unconstitutional. Respondents concede
that the case raises an issue sufficiently meritorious for this Court to
note probable jurisdiction, and there is a significant possibility that the
Court will reverse the lower court's judgment. Moreover, the balance
of irreparable injuries supports a stay.

Circuit Justice.
Applicant in this case is the Commissioner of the Georgia
Department of Human Resources. He promulgated regulations implementing 42 U. S. C. § 602(a)(38) (1982 ed., Supp.
III). That section alters the requirements for state plans
distributing grants under the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) program. Generally, § 602(a)(38) requires the States, in determining a family's need for AFDC
payments, to consider child support payments made to certain children living with the family. Respondents filed suit
in the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Georgia, contending that applicant's regulations violated
the Federal Constitution in two respects: the regulations
took property from the children without just compensation
and violated substantive due process. The District Court
held in favor of respondents and declared the regulations unconstitutional. Applicant sought a stay pending appeal from
the District Court. Before the District Court ruled on that
motion, applicant filed a notice of appeal in this Court purJUSTICE POWELL,

1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Opinion in Chambers

479 U. S.

suant to 28 U. S. C. §§ 1252 and 2101. Subsequently, the
District Court denied applicant's request for a stay.
Three considerations govern a Justice's decision whether
to grant an application for a stay pending appeal. First,
there must be a reasonable probability that four Members of
the Court would consider the underlying issue sufficiently
meritorious to justify notation of probable jurisdiction. Second, there must be a significant possibility of reversal of the
lower court's decision. Finally, there must be a likelihood
that irreparable harm will result if the lower court's decision
is not stayed. See Times-Picayune Publishing Corp. v.
Schulingkamp, 419 U. S. 1301, 1305 (1974) (POWELL, J., in
chambers); Graves v. Barnes, 405 U. S. 1201, 1203-1204
(1972) (POWELL, J., in chambers).

Respondents concede that the case raises an issue sufficiently meritorious for the Court to note probable jurisdiction. On December 8, the Court noted probable jurisdiction
in the similar cases of Kirk v. Gilliard, No. 86-564, and
Bowen v. Gilliard, No. 86-509 (both on appeal from Gilliard
v. Kirk, 633 F. Supp. 1529 (WDNC 1986)). My review of the
papers filed with this application and in Nos. 86-564 and
86-509 convinces me that there is a significant possibility that
the Court will reverse the lower court's decision in this case.
Finally, the State will suffer irreparable harm if the decision
is not stayed. The State will bear the administrative costs
of changing its system to comply with the District Court's
order. Even if this Court reverses the judgment of the District Court, it is unlikely that the State would be able to
recover these costs. Similarly, it is unlikely that disputed
payments made pursuant to the District Court's judgment
could be recovered. On the other hand, respondents argue
that they will suffer irreparable injury if a stay is issued. If
the Court affirms the judgment of the District Court, a stay
will have deprived them of the disputed payments during the
period of the Court's consideration. If the State then pays
the disputed amount with interest, as presumably it would,

LEDBETTER v. BALDWIN
1309

1311

Opinion in Chambers

this may not fully compensate respondents for the difficulties
caused by interruption of their income. Although respondents' argument has some force, I conclude that the balance of
irreparable injuries, coupled with the likelihood of reversal
on the merits, supports a stay.
The application is granted.

