JANUARY TERM, 1850.

155

La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

ana and Arkansas, and within those portions of the States of
Mississippi ad Alabama lying south of the thirty-first degree
of north latitude, and between the Rivers Mississippi and Perdido, we can perceive no change in the act of 1824 effected by
the act of 1844. We are unable to perceive any addition made
by the latter act to the intrinsic strength of the claims allowed
to be prosecuted, or any dispensation from proofs of their bona
fides, or of a single condition prescribed in relation to their
origin and character by the act of 1824. What are the conditions prescribed by this act as indispensable to the allowance
and establishment of titles derived from France or Spain has
been stated in a previous part of this opinion, and having shown
the title of the appellee to be wanting in all those conditions,
it is the opinion of this court that his petition should have been
rejected,- and' therefore that the judgment of the District Court
pronounced in this cause should be reversed, and the same is
hereby reversed.
Order.
This caiise came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that the title of
the petitioner is null and void. Whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said
District Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of the, claimant in this cause.

RENE LA ROCE AND MARY, HIS WIFE, IHEZ 1. ELLIS, STEPHEN
P. ELLIS, AND THOxAS LA ROCHE ELLIS, MINOR HEIRS OF
THoIAS

G.

ELLIS,

DECEASED,

BY

THEIR

GUARDIAN

AD LITEIX,

CHARLES G. DAHLGREN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. THE LESSEE OF
RICHARD JONES AND WIFE.
After the cession by Georgia to the Uniterl State . in 1802, of all the territory north
of 310 north latitude and west of the Chatahoochee River, Congress passed an act
(2 Stat. at Large, 229) confirming certain titles derived from the British or Spaniqh governments, and appointing commissioners to hear and decide upon such
claims, whose decision was declared to be final.
In 112, another act was pa,,sed (2 Stat. at Large, 765) confirming the titles of those
who were actual resident on the 27th of October, 1795, and whose claims had
been filed with the Register and reported to Congress.

156

SUPREME COURT.
La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

A grant of land on the north side of latitude 31, issued in 1789 by the Gov~nor.
General of Louisiana and West Florida, was void, because the United States
owned all the country to the north of latitude 31, under the treaty of 1782. Con.
sequently, no title to land so granted could pass by descent.
But the subsequent legislation of Congress conferred a title emanating from the
United States, and vested it in the person to whom the commissioners awarded
the land.
This title is conclusive against the government, and a court of law cannot now inquire into previous facts, in a collateral action, with a view of impeaching that title.
It is equivalent to a patent.

THIS cause was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Mississippi.
It was an ejectment brought by Richard Jones and wife,
against the plaintiffs in error, to recover eight hundred acres of
land in Wilkinson County, in the State of Mississippi.
The suit was brought in 1823, and in 1825 a verdict was
rendered, by agreement, in favor of the plaintiff, subject to the
opinion of the court upon the whole facts in the case. The
judgment of the court below was in favor of the plaintiff.
The facts in the case are all recited in the opinion of the
court, and need not be repeated.
It was argued by Mr. Gilpin and Mr. Walker, for the
plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Mlore,'ead, for
the defendants in error.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error contended,It is incumbent on the plaintiff below to establish a right of
possession of the tract in question, existing in himself, or those
under whom he claims, on the 6th of August, 1823, founded
on a legal title; and it is immaterial, as to his right to recover,
whether the title be in the defendants or not. Love v. Simms,
9 Wheaton, 524; Cincinnati v. White, 6 Peters, 441.
Does the evidence of the plaintiff, in the record, exhibit
such a title ? It does not.
I. The plaintiff's evidence admits that William -Cocke Ellis
never was in possession of the tract in question. He left the
Misgissippi Territory in 1784 or 1785; went to Virg'.ia; never
returned from there; and died there in 1790. The certificate
of survey of the tract in question bears date 11th iebrtary,
1789. This is the first evidence of his title. It is four or five
years after he had left the Mississippi country and become a
resident of Virginia. The existence of a previous warrant of
survey is known only by a recital, unaccompanied with any
description of the land, or any application for or receipt of it
by him. There is no evidence of the knowledge, acceptance,
or possession either of the warrant of survey or grant, or of the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

157

La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

tract of land itself, by any person for William Cocke EUis, or
by or on behalf of his child or wife.
It is admitted by the plaintiffs evidence that it was claimed
and held by Richard Ellis in 1792; and by John Ellis, from
whom the defendants claim, in 1795; both holding in, and asseyting, their own right, adversely to the claim of the lessors
of the plaintiff. These facts are fatal to the plaintiff's right of
recovery. Taylor v. Horde, 1 Burr. 119; Lewis v. Price, 2
Saund. 175 (note).
II. The claim, therefore, of Mary Jones (formerly Ellis), the
plaintiff's lessor, is made, for the first time, in 1823, and it rests
exclusively on the alleged Spanish grant of 16th February,
1789, unaccompanied by any entry, possession, or previous
claim. Even if it were not invalid on the grounds already
stated, it would still be so, unless, 1. The Spanish grant vested a valid title in William Cocke
Ellis, her husband, which descended to her by act of law, or
was devised to her by him. Or,
2. The compact between the United States and the State
of Georgia, and the legislation of the United States consequent
thereon, vested such a title in her.
Now neither of these occurred.
1. The Spanish grant vested no title.
It was an exercise of authority over territory not belonging
to Spain, being north of 310 N. Lat. Whatever doubt existed
before 1795 was removed by the treaty of that year, by which
Spain admitted that line to be her northern boundary. (8 Stat.
at Large, 146.) , Repeated judicial decisions sustain this, both
of the courts of the United States and of Mississippi.
In the case of Fletcher v;'Peck, 6 Cranch, 87, 142, the Sn.-preme Court sustained the validity of a patent, granted by the
State of Georgia, on the 13th January, 1795, for a body of
land in Mississippi Territory north of 310 N. Lat.
In the case of Harcourt v. Gaillard, 12 Wheaton, 523, a
grant by a British Governor of Florida, after 1776, of a tract
in the Mississippi Territory, north of 310 N. Lat. is held to be
invalid as a foundation of title.
In the case of Henderson v. Poindexter, 12 Wheaton, 530,
the Supreme Court expressly declares that no Spanish 'grant,
after the peace of 1782, of land in the Mississippi Territory,
north of 310 N. Lat., has any validity, but that holders must
depend exclusively on their titles derived under the laws of the
United States.
In the case of Ross v. Barland, 1 Peters,.664, the Supreme
Court says, that the treaty of 27th October, 1795, settled the
VOL. IX:

14

158

SUPREME COURT.
La Roche et al. v. Jones et aL

line of 310 N. Lat. as the boundary between the United States
and Florida.
In the case of Hickey v. Stewart, 3 Howard, 760, the Supreme Court distinctly examined the question as. to the validity
of complete Spanish grants, made in the Mississippi Territory
by Spain, previous to the 27th of October, 1795, and pronounced them absolutely void. It went further; it declared
the territoy to belong to Georgia up to 1802, and therefore
that titles deduced from that State were alone valid.
In the case of Pollard v. Files, 2 Howard, 602; the Supreme
Court laid down the same principle in regard to the Florida
treaty. The United States claiming the whole country as far
east as the Perdido as part of Louisiana, and therefore ceded to
the United States by the treaty of 1803, the Supreme Court
declared all grants which Spain made within that territory to
be void, and the court says that this had been so often, settled
(referring to Foster v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 254, and Garcia v.
Lee, 12 Peters, -515), that it was no longer open to controversy.
In the case of Poole v. Fleeger, 11 Peters, 210, the Supreme
Court applied the same principle, - as one not admitting controversy, - in conflicting claims to territory between the States
of North Cafolina and Virginia; it held a grant of land within
it, by North Carolina, to be intrinsically void.
In the case of Nevitt v. Beaumont, 6 How. Miss. 237, the
same ground, as to the total nullity of Spanish grants of land
north of 310 N. Lat., is strongly affirmed; as it is in many other
cases decided in that State.
The Spanish grant therefore gave no title to William Cocke
Ellis. But if it atid, his wife derived none from him either by
limitation or conveyance. She could not claim by inheritance
from her husband, for the Georgia law recognized no title
whatever in her. The evidence she produces, not only fails to
show any conveyance or devise to, herself, but, on the contrary,
it shows possession and assertion of adverse title, in 1792, in
Richard Ellis, which he thee asserted he had derived from
William Cooke Ellis, and it admits a regilar devise from Richard Ellis to John Ellis. Nor, if it could avail, is there any
evidence whatever of descent, possession, or conveyance'to her
of this tract umder the Spanish grant. Mary Jones, therefore,
totally fails to establish any title under the Spanish grant to
her husband.
2. Does she, then, show a tifle under the legislative acts
either of Georgia or the United States?
That she must sb do has been settled by repeated decisions.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

159

La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

In the case of Henderson v. Poindexter, 12 Wheaton, 530,
the Supreme Court expressly held that, where a claimant
claimed under a Spanish grant, north of 310 N. Lat., his title
was utterly void unless it was confirmed by the compact between the United States and Georgia, or the acts of Congress
of the 3d March, 1803, or 27th March, 1804 (2 Stat. at Large,
229, 303). In 14 Peters, 405, will be found Judge Baldwin's
statement of the point thus decided in Henderson v. Poindexter.
In the case of Harcourt v. Gaillard, 12 Wheaton, 523, the
Supreme Court decided that a British grant was equally unavailing to give title north of 310 N. Lat., but that it must be
derived under the compact with Georgia or the acts of Congress.
In the case of Hickie v. Starke, V'Peters, 98, the claimant
produced a grant "legally and fully executed"; but the Supreme Court held it to be insufficient, and required that th&
person under whom the claim is made should come within
the provisions of the compact between the United States and
Georgia.
In the case of Hickey v. Stewart, 3 Howard, 760, the same
doctrine is fully established, the previous cases being reviewed
and confirmed.
The same rule has been established in regard to claims under
the Louisiana and Florida treaties, though in those treaties
there were confirmatory words in regard to the validity of existing grants, not found in the treaty of 1795. But acts of
Congress being passed to carry these treaties into effect,
boards of coimissioners being appointed, - the Supreme
Court have held that the claimant, notwithstanding his grant,
must bring himself within these laws.
In the case of Delacroix v. Chamberlain, 12 Wheaton, 601,
the Supreme Court held a confirmation by the board of commissioners appointed under the act of Congress absolutely necessary.
In the case of Foster v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 314, the same
point was decided, and Judge Baldwin (14 Peters, 411), while
commenting on that case, and controverting some of its positions, regards this as established beyond a question.
In the cases of Garcia v. Lee, 12 Peters, 516-519, of Pollard v. Files, 2 Howard, 603, and of Les Bois v. Bramell, 4
Howard, 459, the rule is treated as one not open to question or
dispute.
Has, then, Mary Jones shown a title under the acts of Congress, which declare what was requisite to give a title to land
in the Iississippi Territory on 27th October, 1795?

160

SUPREME COURT.
La Roche et al. v. Jones et aL

What is thus required?
1. Certain matters of fact made by law essential.
2. A confirmation by the board of commissioners appointed
under that law.
What are these matters of fact, and is there any evidence of
them in favor of Mary Jones? They are set forth either in the
compact with Georgia (1 Laws of the United States, 489), or
thd act of Congress to carry it into effect (2 Stat. at Large,
229).
1. Actual residence on the 27th of October, 1795, in the Mississippi Territory, by the person in whose name the Spanish
grant was issued, or the legal rejpresentative of such person.
12. Presentation of proof thereof to the Register.
,Now, the whole evidence in the record, not only does not
present this proof, but establishes the reverse. It shows, 1. That William Cocke Ellis was dead before the 27th of
October, 1795.
2. That Mary Jones was not his legal epresentative.
3. That, if she was his legal representative, she never, at any
time, resided in the Mississippi Territory.
4. That she never presented any proof, or made any claim,
before the Register or commissioners.
But if she had given evidence of these matters of fact, still
this would give no title, unless her claim was presented to the
board of commissioners, and confirmed to her, as being such
representative, and the person then entitled to the tract. The
act of 3d March, 1803, makes their decision on all the matters
of fact necessary to establish a title as final and conclusive. It
also makes a certificate of confirmation issued by them equivalent to a patent to the person in whose favor it is given.
* 1. This is apparent ftom the language of the act. See act
of 3d March, 1803, ยง 6 (2 Stat. at Large, 230).
2. It is established by judicial decisions, as well such as directly relate to the Mississippi Territory, as those similarly
made in other cases.
In the case of Brown v. Jackson, 7 Wheaton, 240, the Supreme Court gave full force to the act of the commissioners in
the Mississippi Territory.
In the case of Ross v. Barland, 1 Peters, 665, 666, the Supreme Court says that no particular form of certificate is required; that it is sufficient if the proof is satisfactory to the
board ; and that nothing more is needed than their certificate
to entitle the party, in whose favor it is given, to a patent.
In the case of Hickey v. Stewart, 3 Howard, 761, the language of the Supreme Court to this eff-trt is still more decisive.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

161

La Roche et al. r. Jones et al.

The same point has been repeatedly decided in other cases,
arising under the decisions of other boards created for similar
purposes. Polk v. Wendell, 9 Cranch, 99; S. C., 5 Wheaton,
303; Hoofnagle v. Anderson, 7' Whepton, 217; Patterson v.
Winn, 11 Wheaton, 384; Edwards v. Daly, 12 Wheaton, 206;
Voorhees v. United States Bank, 10 Peters, 472.
Now, Mary Jones not only-had received no such certificate,
not only has presented no such proofs, -but the board have
deliberately decided, 1. That the proof is, in their opinion, conclusive, to show
that John Ellis was the legal representative of William Cooke
Ellis; the tract having been proved to.be "legally conveyed"
to him.
2. That John Ellis was entitled to the land, according to the
proofs and requirements of the compact with Georgia, and the
acts of Congress.
3. That John Ellis was entitled to a certificate of confirmation, which ws duly reported to Congress.
4. And John Ellis actually received a certificate of, confirmation, under which he and his heirs have continued to hold the
tract ever since the year 1805; as had been previously the
case, without interruption, from 1795.
III. Nor can the lesser of the plaintiff, Mary Jones, aviail herself of the possession of John Ellis, or those who claim under
him, as enuring to her benefit.
It is shown by the facts to be an adverse possession. The
tract was claimed by Richard Ellis as his own. It was so devised by him to John Ellis. It was so held by John Ellis. It
was so presented to the board of commissioners. It was so
confirmed and certified by them. It was so definitively confirmed aid ratified by act of Congress..
There is no evidence whatever to show that any title, legal
or equitable, in Mary Jones, was supposed to exist, or was in
any manner recognized as existing, by the board of commissioners or by Congress. The law of Mississippi, at the time
when this action of ejectment at law was institdted, positively
declared that the perfect legal title was vested in John Ellis
and his heirs, under the certificate of confirmation from the
board of commissioners, ratified, by Congress. Act of Mississippi of 28th June, 1822 (How. & Hutch. Mississippi Digest,
p. 599).
Legal tOle, therefore, in Mary Jones there was clearly ione,
derived from the possession of John Ellis, or the confirmation
to him. If it could be plausibly urged, - which it cannot,
that an equitable interest was vested in or inured to her by vir14 *

162

SUPREME COURT.
La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

tue of such possession aild confirmation, it is insufficient to
maintain her present action, which must rest on her establishing a legal and possessory title, complete in herself, at the time
her suit was instituted. Robinson v. Campbell, 3 Wheaton,
212.
The counsel for the defendants in error contended,
1st. That Richard Ellis never had any title by descent to
this land, either from his son or grandson. Upon the death of
William Cocke Ellis, in August, 1790, with a full and complete legal title to the land in question, so far as the government of Spain could grant it, it undoubtedly became vested in
his only child and heir, Richard Cocke Ellis, and in his wife,
Mary Jones. It is well known that, after the American Revolution, the United States, Spain, South Carolina, and Georgia
succeeded to the disputes of Great Britain, France, and Spain,
relative to the country in which the land in queition is situated.
South Carolina claimed the country under the grant to the
Lords Proprietors; Georgia founded her claim on the commissions to her governor, Wright; and the United States claimed
it as a conquest from the British Province of West Florida.
Spain contended that it was a part of Louisiana, and as such
ceded to her by the treaty of 1783.
South Carolina relinquished her claim by the treaty of Beaufort to Georgia. There being no other territory in the United
States than that of some one of the confederated States, the
general government very properly abandoned its claim, and recognized the complete title in Georgia, by taking a cession of
the countrr from that State. It has always been held by every
department of the government, that the title 3,,d jurisdiction
over this country was in Georgia alone, until this act of cession; that Spain held the country, and exercised jurisdiction
over it wrongfully, and that the treaty between the United
States and that nation does not import to be a cession of territory, but the adjustment of a boundary between the two nations.
This being the case,, it is obvious that we must look to the
laws of Georgia to define the rights growing out of the course
of descent. The law of Georgia on this subject will be found
in Marbury and Crawford's Digest of the Laws of Georgia, p.
217. The first section of the act referred to, after abolishing
the distinction between real and personal estate of any person
dying intestate, continues as follows: -"
So that in case of
there being a widow and children, or child, they shall draw
equal shares thereof, unless the widow shall prefer her dower ;
in which event she shall have nothing further out of the real

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

163

La Roche et al. v. Jones et aL

estate than such dower; but shall, nevertheless, receive her
proportionable part or share out of the personal estate. In case
any of the children shall have died before the intestate, their
lineal descendants shall stand in their place and stead: in case
of there being a widow, and no child or children, or legal representatives of children, then the widow shall draw a moiety
of the estate, and the other moiety shall go to the next of kin
in equal degree, and their representatives. If no widow, the
whole shall go to the child or children. If neither widow,
child, or children, the whole shall be distributed among the
next of kin in equal degree, and their representatives ; but no
representative shall be admitted among collaterals, further than
the child or children of the intestate's brothers and sisters. If
the father or mother be alive, and the child dies intestate, and
without issue, such father (or mother, in case the father be
dead, and not otherwise) shall come in on the same footing as
a brother or sister would do. The next of kin shall be investigated by the following rules of consanguinity, that is to say:
children shall be nearest; parents, brothers, and sisters shall be
equal in respect to distribution, and cousins shall be next to
them. The half blood shall be admitted to a distribution share
of the real and personal estate, in common with the full blood."
Act of 23d December, 1789.
From the above law, it is apparent that, upon the death of
William Cocke Ellis, his widow and child, in the language of
the act, drew equal shares of his estate.
The child, Richard Cocke Ellis, .being entitled to one half
the lanq in question, died an infant, without issue, and intestate, leaving a mother, but no father, brothers, or sistees. In
such case the mother came in "on the same footing as a brother or sister would do." The rule prescribed for investigating
the next of kin places children first, and then parents, brothers,
and sisters. The infant R. 0. Ellis, having no brothers, or
sisters, or father, his mother, the present lessor of the plaintiff,
succeeded him, and became his sole heir. The foregoing law
continued in force over this country until the adoption of the
ordinance of July 18th, 1787, for the government of the Territory of Mississippi, in 1798, and so far only as it may be considered modified by it, until March 12th, 1803, when the act
of that date was passed, revised February 10th, 1806. See
Hutchinson's Miss. Code, p. 623.
2dly. But the land in controversy is situated in the country
which lies between the Mississippi and Chatahoochee Rivers,
and between the 31st degree of north latitude to the south, and
a line drawn from the mouth of the Yazoo River, due east, .to

164

SUPREME COURT.
La Roche et al. v. Jones et aL

the Chatahoochee on the north. This being within the acknowledged limits of the United States, although Spain held
and exercised jurisdiction over it until the treaty of the 27th of
October, 1795, it is conceded that it has been properly decided
by this court that all grants of land by her were invalid, unless
embraced within the provisions of some one of the statutes
passed by the Congress of the United States. The first act
bearing upon this subject is that by which Georgia ceded her
western territory to the United States. That act provides,
"that all persons who, o the 27th day of October, 1795, were
actual settlers within the territory thus ceded, shall be confirm'ed in all the grants legally and fully executed prior to that
day by the former British government of West Florida, or by
the "government of Spain." On the 3d of March, 1803, Congress passed "an act regulating the grants of land, and providing
for the disposal of the lands of the United States south of the
State of Tennessee "; a-d in March, 1804, a supplemental act
was passed, both of which are commented upon at large in the
case of Henderson v. Poindexter's Lessee, 12 Wheaton, 536,
and need not be more particularly noticed at this point. In
this case the court says, "It is not easy to resist the conviction,
that the government has legislated on the idea that Spanish
titles might be valid, though held by persons who were not residents of the country on the 27th of October, 1795."
In the subsequent case of Hickie v. Starke, 1 Peters, 94, the
court remarks, "that the term actual settler seems to have
been understood, in the case of Henderson v. Poindexter, as
synonymous with resident of the country. That case, however, did not require that the precise meaning of the term
should be fixed, and the'court is disposed to think that a settlement made on the land by another person, who cultivated it
for the proprietor, would be sufficient, though the proprietor
should not reside in person on the estate, or within the territory." The settlement made in the case cited was on the 3d
of December, 1795, by another person than the proprietor, but
for him. 11:Had the settlement been made," says the opinion,
"at the day required by the cession act, it would, we think,
have satisfied the requisition of that act, and entitled the plaintiffs in error to the benefit of the condition."
It will be remembered that this was a suit in chancery, and
dismissed for the want of jurisdiction, because Hickie did not
show that his patentee was a settler on the 27th day of October, 1795. He afterwards, however, brought his action of
ejectment upon his legal title, exhibiting a patent, dated 3d of
April, 1794, issued by the Spanish governor of the Province of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

165

La Roche et al. x. Jones et al.

Louisiana, and a certificate of the 10th of April, 1806,:signed
by the commissioners appointed under the acts of Congress of
the 3d of March, 1803, and the supplemental act of the 27th of
March, 1804, confirming to George Mather, from whom Hickie,
claimed, the said tract of land, by virtue of the articles of
agreement and cession between the United States and the
State of Georgia.
The case came again before this court, and may be found
reported in 3 Howard, 750. The decree in chancery, which
had been brought before this court for revision, and dismissed
for the want of jurisdiction, on the ground before stated, was
relied upon as a bar to the recovery in ejectment. This court
decided it was no bar, and reversed the judgment of the Circuit
Court. It will be berne, in mind, that the patentee was not a
resident of the territory,.and did not cultivate the land by another at the period prescribed in the act of cession by Georgia,
but that the first actual settlement was by his agent, Williams,
on the 3d of December, 1795.
From these cases it may be considered as settled, that all
Spanish grants legally and fully executed prior to the 27th of
October, 1795, though the, grantee was a non-resident of the
territory, and had not cultivated the land by another, are valid,
if laid before the commissioners for their action under the laws
of 1803 and 1804, before referred to.
The grant which is the foundation of the present action was
legally and fully executed prior to the 27th of October, 1795,
but the grantee, William Cocke Ellis, seems not to have been
in the country from about 1784 or 1785 up to the period of his
death in 1790, and his widow, the present lessor of the plaintiff, never was iii the country. In the absence of William
Cocke Ellis, his survey seems to have been made, certified, and
the grant issued upon it. His father or brother, John Ellis,
probably acted as his agent. It is respectfully contended, that
the act of confirmation to John Ellis inured to the benefit of
the legal title, without vesting it in him. Without urging the
impropriety of his disavowal of his fealty to his principal, if at
any time he had acted as his agent, it may be assumed as
established, that all the acts of Congress on the subject of
grants within the disputed territory, which were legally and
fullyexecuted prior to the 27th of October, 1795, presuppose
that the legal title was full and complete in the grantee. See
12 Wheaton, 528, &c.; and The Lessee of Pollard's Heirs v.
Kibbe, 14 Peters, 406, where it is said that "the articles with
Georgia were in themselves a con1imation of titles within its
provisions, protected by them and confirmed by them." The

166

SUPREME COURT.
La Roche et al. v. Jones et aL

third section of the act of cession speaks of "grants herein before recognized." The act of the 3d of March, 1803, before
cited, after providing for three other classes of claimants not
embraced in the act of cession, establishes a board of commissioners for the confirmation of claims, and delares the legal
effect of a certificate of confirmation of a grant fully executed
to be "a relinquishment for ever, on the part of the United
States, to any claim whatever to such tract of land." In the
other cases, the holder of the certificate thereby becomes entitled to a patent for the land. See sixth section of the act of
1803. The act of 27th March, 1804, while in its third section
it uses more comprehensive language, brings whatever additional claims may be embraced by it within the operation of
the act of 1803, to which it was a supplement.
What, then, was the legal effect of the certificate of confirmation to John Ellis? We have shown that the legal title
passed to Richard 0. Ellis, the infant heir of William 0. Ellis,
and to his widow, now Mary Jones; and that, upon the death
of Richard C. Ellis, his title passed to his mother, so that she
became the legal proprietor cL the land in question.
Under the act of the commissioners, there was no transfer of
the legal title. The act itself did not purport to vest the legal
title. It amounted to "asimple relinquishment of the claim of
the United States, leaving the legal title where the law had
previously vested it. If John Ellis should institute ani action
of ejectment, could he show such a legal title as would entitle
him to recover? It is apprehended that it would scarcely be
gravely argued that he could. He procured the relinquishment
of the claim of the United States to a grant of land, legally and
fully executed. That relinquishment must attach itself to the
legal tit4e, wherever that may be. It is based, it is true, upon
the hypothesis, that such title was in him, but it has not the
effect of vesting such title in him when it was in another.
The confirmation inured to the benefit of the title, wherever it
was. Had the title been inchoate, the act of confirmation
would have entitled the claimant to have the legal title consummated in himself, by having a patent issued in his name.
But even in such case it is supposed, upon a proper case made
out, the real owner of such inchoate title might, by a suit in
chancery, ohtain the relinquishment of such title. But whether this be so or not, both parties claiming under the same title,
the act of confirmation must be united with the title, whe;ever
it may be. The law declares what shall be the effect of the
act of confirmation of a grant legally and fully executed. The
grant is recognized as the legal title, and the act of confirma-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

167

La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

tion a mere relinquishment of the claim of the United States.
The title draws to itself the relinquishment, and remains where
it did before the act of confirmation.
The reasons for requiring full and complete grants to be laid
before a board of commissioners are obvious, as justly re1
marked by this court in the case of Henderson v. Poindexter's
Lessees. "The legislature," says the court, "was making provision for the sale of vacant lands within the ceded territory,
and it was deemed necessary to ascertain the particular lands
which were appropriated." The confirmation, in the name of
John Ellis, of the grant made to William Cocke Ellis, effected
all that was intended by the law. It ascertained the particular
laud which had been appropriated, and confirmed the title. It
did not change the legal title, or transfer it from the person -in
whom it was vested to the one who procured the confirmation.
The intention of the law was fulfilled, its object fully accomplished, and the confirmation inured to the benefit of the holder of the legal title, whoever he might be.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The original suit out of which this writ of error ariseg was
an action of eJectment, brought in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Mississippi, at October term
A. D. 1823, by John Doe, lessee of Richard Jones and Mary,
his wife, citizens of Kentucky, against Thomas Ellis and Mary
Ellis, to recover a tract of land in Wilkinson County. in the
State of Mississippi, alleged to have been originally granted by
the Spanish government to William Cocke Ellis, by a patent
dated 16th February, 1789. It was admitted that the defendants were in possession of the tract of land in question; and
that the land described in the Spanish grant, and in the declaration in this suit, were the same.
The proceedings in the case, and the facts as exhibited in
the evidence offered by the plaintiffs, - no evidence being offered by the defendants, -are as follows.
In the year 1773 or 1774 Richard Ellis removed from Amelia County, Virginia, to the Mississippi cGoantry, then claimed
and occupied by Spain as part of Louisiana and West Florida,
where he continued to reside till his death, in 1792.
Richard Ellis was accompanied by two sons, -John Ellis,
the grandfather of the defendants, and William Cocke Ellis,
who afterwards married Mary Jones, the lessor of the plaintiff.
John Ellis continued to reside in Mississippi till his death in
1808.
William Cocke Ellis returned to Virginia about the year

SUPREME COUR.
La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

1784 or 1785, and continued to reside there till his death, in
1790, never having gone back to Mississippi.
On the 11th of February, 1789, Trudeau, the Surveyor-General of Louisiana and West Florida, issued a certificate of survey, with a figurative plan, of a tract of land of eight hundred
square arpents on Buffalo Creek in the district of Natchez, "in
favor of Don William Cooke Ellis; the delimitation (measurement) having been made by virtue of the decree of his Excellpncy, Don Stephen Miro, Governor-General, under date of
20th March, 1783."
On the 16th of February, 1789, a grant of the said tract,
which was stated to adjoin land of John Ellis, was made to
William Cocke Ellis by Governor Miro, "in order that, as his
own, he might dispose and make use of it."
Thb situation of the tract is north of the 31st degree of latitnde, in the former county of Adams and present county of
Wilkinson, in the-State of Mississippi.
On the 2d of April, 1789, William Cooke Ellis, who was
then residing in Virginia, married Mary Cocke, afterwards
Mary Jones, and lessor of the plaintiff.
In January, 1790, William Cooke Ellis and Mary, his wife,
had a child born, who was named Richard Cock& Ellis.
In August, 1790, William Cocke Ellis died in Virginia, intestate; .leaving his wife, Mary Ellis, and his child, Richard
Cocke Ellis, surviving him, and residing in Virginia.
In April, 1791, the child Richard Cooke Ellis died in Virginia, an infant.
On the 17th of October, 1792, Richard Ellis (of Mississippi)
made his will, wherein he devised to his son John Ellis the
tract of land in question, and died shortly afterwards.
On the 2d of July, 1795, Mary Ellis (widow of William
CockeEllis) married, in Virginia, Richard Jones, lessor of the
plaintiff, and they continted to reside in Virginia.
On the 27th of October, 1795, by the treaty between the
United States and Spain, the latter admitted the parallel of
310 N. Lat. to be the north boundary of the Spanish possessions, -as it had always been claimed to be by the United
States since the treaty of peace in 1782, where it is so expressly declared (8 Stat. at Large, 138).
On the 7th of April, 1798, an act of Congress established the
Mississippi Territory, bounded on the south by 310 N. Lat., and
constituted a board of commissioners to receive a cession from
Georgia of her territory west of the Chatahoochee, and north
of 310 N. Lat., and to adjust all differences in regard thereto
(1 Stat. at Large, 549),

JANUARY TERM,

1850.

169

La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

On the 24th of April, 1802, an agreement was made between
the United States and Georgia, and a cession by Georgia of all
claims to territory north of 310 and west of the Chatahoochee.
It was therein expressly covenanted, that all persons who were,
on the 27th of October, 1795, actual settlers within the territory ceded, should be confirmed in their grants made by the
Spanish government before that day (1 Laws of the United
States, 489).
On the 3d of March, 1803, an act of Congress was passed
(2 Stat. at Large, 229) which provided that, 1. All persons, and the legal representatives of persons, who
were resident in the Mississippi Territory on the 27th of Octo-.
ber, 1795, who had before then received from the British or
Spanish government a warrant or order of survey, and who on
that day actually inhabited and cultivated the land in the warrant, should be confirmed in their titles if they were twenty-one
years of age, or heads of a family, at the date of the warrant.
2. All persons, and their legal representatives, who, at the
time of the Spanish evacuation in 1797, were twenty-one years
of age, or heads of families, and actually inhabited and cultivated a tract of land in the Mississippi Territory not claimed
under the preceding section or any British graht, or the agreement with Georgia, should be entitled to a donation of such
tract.
3. All persons, and their legal representatives, who, at the
time of passing this act, were twenty-one years of age, or heads
of a family, and inhabited and cultivated a tract of land in said
territory not claimed as aforesaid, should be entitled to a preemption right therefor.
4. All persons claiming lands by virtue of-the preceding sections, or of a British grant, or under the agreement with Georgia, were required to file their claims and evidence with the
Register, before the 31st of March, 1804, and if this was not
done, all their right was for ever barred.
5. Commissioners were appointed to ascertain the rights of
persons claiming under the agreement with Georgia, or under
this act; they were to hear and decide, in a summary manner,
all matters respecting such claims; and to determine them;
and their determination, so far as the right was derived under
the agreement with Georgia or the acts of Congress, was declared to be final. They were to give certificates to claimants
who should appear to them entitled, stating that they are confirmed in their titles thereto; which certificate, being recorded,
was to be a relinquishment for ever of all claim on the part of
the United States.
15
vOL.. IX.

170

SUPREME COURT.
La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

Thereupon John Ellis presented and filed his claim to be
confirmed in the tract of land in question.
By indorsement on the original Spanish grant in this case, it
appears that it was duly recorded in the Register's book C of
written evidence of claims, folio 534.
He also produced and- filed the will of his father, Richard
Ellis, dated 17th October, 1792, devising the tract to him.
On the 19th of June, 1805, his title thereto was absolutely
confirmed, and. a certificate of confirmation was issued by the
commissioners "1to John Ellis, for the tract mentioned in the
Spanish grant, dated 16th February, 1789, to William Cocke
Ellis," and which had been, as they certified, "legally donveyed to the said John Ellis."
On the 3d of July, 1807 , the r6port of the commissioners
was made to the Secretary of the Treasury, stating, among
others, the confirmation of the tract in controversy to John
Ellis: and on the 2d of January, this, with numerods other
reports on the Mississippi land titles, was reported to Congress.
(See Gales & Seaton's documents, Public Lands, Vol. I. p.
868:)
On the 30th of June, 1812, an act of Congress was passed,
which declared that all persons, and their legal representatives,
claiming lands in the Mississippi Territory under British or
Spanish warrants or orders of survey, granted before the 27th
of October, 1795, who were actual residents on that day, and
whose claims had been filed with the Register and reported to
Congress, were thereby confirmed in the lands so claimed, and
should receive patents. (2 Stat. at Large, 765.)
On this state of facts, it was submitted to the Circuit Court
whether the lessor of the plaintiff (Mary Jones) could recover;
that court having pronounced her title legal and valid, judgment was rendered for the plaintiff, and the only question presented for our consideration is, whether that judgment was a
proper conclusion of law on the facts agreed by the parties.
That the grant of 1789, made by .iro, Governor-General of
Louisiana and West Florida, was void for want of power in the
Spanish authorities to grant lands north of the thirty-first degree of north latitude, is not open to controversy at this time.
It was so held in Henderson v. Poindexter, 12 Wheat. 539,
and again in the case of Hickey v. Stewart, 3 How. 756, and
the same doctrine has been affirmed in several other cases. It
necessarily follows, that on the death of William Cocke Ellis
in. 1790, his infant son Richard took no title by descent; nor
did the mother of Richard take any title by descent on the
death of her son in 1791. Her right to recover must therefore

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

171

La Roche et al. v. Jones et al.

depend on the compact between the State of Georgia and the
United States of 1802, or on the legislation of Congress. The
compact only provided for persons who actually inhabited and
cultivated the land claimed on the 27th of October, 1795, and
the lessor of the plaintiff, not having done so, was not provided
for; and, in the next place, Congress intended by the act of
1803 to confer United States titles on claimants, and to this
end instituted a board of commissioners, with powers to adjudge on the facts, whether such claim as was recognized by
the compact existed, and who the proper claimant then was,
whether by assignment or otherwise; and, especially, to ascertain and decide whether the land claimed had been actually
inhabited and cultivated by the person who preferred the claim,
on the 27th of October, 1795. On the necessary facts being
found to satisfy the compact, and the act of Congress, the land
was adjudged to the applicant, and a certificate of the judgment was delivered to him; which, on being recorded, divested
the title of the United States, and vested it in the individual in
whose favor the judgment was given. And this title is conclusive as against the government; nor can a court of law inquire into previous facts, reaching behind the judgment given
by the commissioners, thereby to impeach its validity; as this
would be assuming jurisdiction to overthrow that judgment in
a collateral action. As a source of individual title, the judgment and recorded certificate stand on the foot of a patent, and
merge all previous requirements, and all future inquiry into
such requirements, when the grant is relied on, as here, in defence of an ejectment. John Ellis's heirs having the conclusive legal titles, Mary Jones has no standing in court: and such,
in effect, is the decision of Hickey v. Stewart. We deem the
judgment then pronounced conclusive of the present controversy, and, for the reasons then given and here given, order, that
the judgment of the Circuit Court be reversed, and that one
be entered for the defendants below, and plaintiffs in error here.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to enter a judgment in this
cause in favor of the defendants in that court and plaintiffs in
error here.

