W22

SUPREME

COURT.

Bank of the State of Alabama v. Dalton.

TEE

PRESIDENT AND DIRECTORS OF TnE
ALABAMA,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

BANK OF THE STATE

v. ROBERT

H.

OF

DALTON.

A State has power to regulate the remedies by which contracts and judgments are
sought to be enforced in its courts of justice, unless its regulations are controlled
by the Constitution of the United States, or by laws enacted under its authority.
Therefore, where a State passed a law declaring that all judgments which had been
obtained in any other State prior to the passage of the law should be barred unless suit was brought upon the judgment within two years after the passage of the
act, this law was within the power of the State, and not inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States or any act of Congress.
And this was true, although the person against whom the judgment was given became a citizen of the said State upon the very day on which he was sued. The
Legislature made no exception, and com-ts can make none.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court of the United States for the Northern District of MississipLi.
The facts were these.
On the 7th of February, 1843, the President and Directors
of the Bank of the State of Alabama recovered a judgment
against Robert H. Dalton, for $ 1,844, with interest and costs,
in the County Court of Tuscaloosa County and State of Alabama..
On th6 24th of February, 1844, the State of Mississippi
passed an act (Hutchinson's Mississippi Code, pp. 830 et seq.),
which provided, amongst other things, that judgments rendered
before the passage of the act in any other State of the Union
should, be barred, unless suit was brought thereon within two
years from the passage of the act.
On the 10th of November, 1846, the President and Directors
of the Bank of the State of Alabama brought a suit against
Dalton in the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, held at the town of Pontotoc. It
was an action of debt brought upon the judgment recovered in
the County Court of Tuscaloosa County, in Alabama. The
writ was served upon Dalton on the same day that it was issued: The defendant pleaded the statute of limitations of
Mississippi in the following manner: . "And the said defendant, by his attorneys, comes and
defends the wrong and injury, when, &c., and for plea says, that
the said plaintiff his action aforesaid ought not to have or
maintain against him, because he says that the said judgment
upon which this suit is founded was obtained in a court out
of the limits of the State of Mississippi, to wit, the County
Court of the County o Tuscaloosa, in the State of Alabama,
and was rendered up against said defendant on the 7th day of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

523

Bank of the State of Alabama v. Dalton.

February, 1843, and was then and there, on that day, in full
force and effect in said court.
"And defendant further says, that by an act of the Legislature of the State of Mississippi, entitled ' An act to amend the
several acts of limitations,' approved on the 24th day of February, 1844, it is enacted and declared, upon judgments obtained in any court out of the limits of this State, actions shall
be commenced within two years after the passage of the said
act, and not afterwards; and that this action was not commenced by this plaintiff until the two years had expired, within which the said plaintiff was required to bring his suit as
aforesaid, and this he is ready to verify ; wherefore he prays
judgment, if the said plaintiff ought to have or maintain his
aforesaid action against him," &c.
To this plea the plaintiff filed the following replication :"And the said plaintiff, for replication to the pleas of the
said defendant by him first above pleaded, says precludi non, because he says that the said defendant, at and from the time of
thG rendition of the judgment in said plea and declaration mentioned, and from thence until and within two years next before
the commencement of this suit, to wit, on the 10th day of November, A. D. 1846, to wit, at the district aforesaid, was and
continued to be a citizen of the State of Alabama, where the
said plaintiff resided, without the jurisdiction of this court ; and
this they pray may be inquired of by the country," &c.
The defendant demurred to this replication, and., upon arguruent, the court sustained the demurrer.
To review this judgment, the bank brought the case up to
this court.
It was submitted on printed arguments by .r. Featherston,
for the plaintiff in error, and 3r. Adams, for the defendant in
error. The arguments are very short, and may be inserted.
31r. Featherston,for the plaintiff in error.
This action of debt was brought by the plaintiff to recover
of the defendant the sum of $ 1,844 debt, and $ 110.58 damages, the amount of a recovery had in the Circuit Court of
Tuscaloosa County and State of Alabama, on the 7th day of
February, 1843, by the plaintiff against the defendant. This
suit was instituted in the District Court of the United States
for North Mississippi, at Pontotoc, at the December term thereof, 1846. The writ was issued on the 10th day of November,
1846. The defendant at the said December term, 1846, pleaded
the statute of limitations of 1844, which provides that no suit

.24

SUPREIE COURT.
Bank of the State of Alabama v. Dalton.

shall thereafter be instituted in this State upon any judgment
rendered in any other State of this Union, unless the same, be
done withintwb years after its rendition. To this plea of the
statute of limitations the plaintiff replied, that, at the time of
the rendition of the judgment in Alabama, the defendant was a
citizen of the State of Alabama, and continued so to be up to
the 10th day of November, 1846, the day on which this suit
was brought. To this replication there was a demurrer by the
defendant, which the court sustained, upon the ground that the
statute barred the action, although the defendant was a nonresident, and beyond the jurisdiction of this State up to the
moment of its institution. It is difficult to apprehend how this
decision can be law, and how it can be reconciled with the
hundred and one decisions made by every court in every State
in the Union. That no one can avail himself of 'the presumptions that the statute of limitations raises in favor of his having paid his debt, but a citizen of the State where the suit is
brought, and that the statute does rtot commence running until
the party gets into the State, 're propositions so often decided,
and so universally recognized, that it is not believed defendant's counsel was serious when he first made the defence so
successfully'set up by him to this action. To supjiose the
Legislatute of the State of Mississippi intended to pass a law
closing her courts hgainst debts due between citizens of other
States before they should come within her jurisdiction, is preposterous; that she could have permitted her sovereignty to
beoome vindictive and malignant against a particular class of
claims, and allowed it, in its petulance, to "enact, that hereafter
Mississippi should be a State of refuge for judgment debtors,
and leave general creditors to the general statute law, I cannot
believe; but if the decision made in this case is law, she, the
State of Mississippi, has done that thing. If the construction
given 'to the statute in.this case be correct,. then debtors of
other States are encouraged to dishonesty, and invited to flee
from their debts. This act was passed in February, 1844, and
commenced running from its approval; the defendant was then
a citizen of the State of Alabama, where he continued until,
according to the decision in this case, the judgment, the foundation of this action, was positively barred ; although neither
plaintiff nor defendant was within the jurisdiction of the courts
of the State, or entitled to peculiar favors from Mississippi, from
having rendered her any great public serwes. "The7 replication shows that the defendant did not come -within the jurisdiction of the State courts until the 10th of November, 1846,
over two years from the passage of the act of 1844. But suppose

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

525

Bank of the State of Alabama v. Dalton.

the court should think that the bar of. the statute becaus complete at the end of two years. Still, in the construction of the
act of 1844, they will take it in connection with all the other
acts of limitation of the State, and make them harmonize if
possible. Now, the act of 1822 declares, that the time of the
absence of the debtor from the State, he being a citizen, shall
be deducted in the computatibn of the time. There can be no
inconsistency, then, in deducting the absent time in. this case;
let this be done, and the court will see that the suit was instituted on the very day he came into the State.
11r. Adams, for the defendant in error.
The question presented by the plea, replication, and demurrer
is, Does the fourteenth section of an act of. the Legislature of
the State of Mississippi, entitled "An act to amend the several
acts of limitations," approved February 24th, 1844, applyto
foreigners, or citizens of other States, sued within the limits of
the State of Mississippi ?
No question is raised as to the constitutionality of the act
itself, that point having been so fully settled, upon a similar
statute, by the Supreme Court of the United States, in McEImoyle v.Cohen, 13 Peters, 314. The High Court of Errors
and Appeals of Mississippi have also enforced.it in McClintock
v. Rogers, 12 Smedes & Marsh. 702.
, One of the first English cases in which this point arose was
in the construction of the statute of 21 James I.,' where Lord
Keeper' Cowper uses this language: - " The statute provides
that, where the party plaintiff, he who carries the action abofit
him, goes beyond sea, his right shall be saved, but where the
debtor or party defendant goes beyond sea, there is no saving
in that case. It is plausible and reasonable that the statute of
limitations should not take place, nor the six years be running,
until the parties come within the cognizance of the laws of
England, but that must be left to the legislature."
In the case of Beckford and others v. Wade, 17 Vesey, 88,
et seq., this'question is fully examined, and the same conclusion arrived at by Sir Win, Grant, then Master of the Rolls, to
whose elaborate and able opinion the court is respectfully referred.
In Ruggles v. Keeler, 3 Johns. 263, Chancellor Kent expresses the same opinion.
In McIver et al., Lessees, v. Ragan, 2 Wheat. 25, .which was
admitted to be a case within the act of limitations of the State
of Tennessee, andnot within the letter of the exceptions, Chief
Justice Marshall says, -" Wherever the situation of a party

526

SUPREME

COURT.

Bank of the. State of Alabama v. Dalton.

was such as, in the opinion of the legislature, to furnish a motive for excepting him from the operation of the law, the legislature has made the exception. It would be going far for this
court to add to those exceptions."
And again he adds, - " If this difficulty be produced by the
legislative power, the same power might provide a remedy, but
courts cannot on that account insert in the statute of limitations an exception which the statute does not contain." See
also Cocke and Jack v. McGinnis, Martin & Yerger, 361; Patton v. McClure, Ibid. 332; 2 Yerger, 290.
Applying these principles to the case before us, there can
be no doubt that the District Court ruled correctly in sustaining
the demurrer to plaintiffs replication. The act of limitations
of the State of Mississippi may be found in the Pamphlet Acts
of 1844, p. 101, and in Hutchinson's Mississippi Code, p. 830,
et seq.
The first ten sections of this act define the bar of the statute
in the cases therein enumerated. The eleventh section then
frovides, that, so far as the ten preceding sections are concerned,
suit may be commenced against a party out of the State
after his return, and that the time of his absence shall be deducted, &c. This expressly applies,, however, only to those
sections that precede it. In Ruggles v. Keeler, 3 Johns. 263,
before referred to, the court say this applies to foreigners as
well as citizens, because the statute makes it so. But no such
principle applies to the subsequent sections of the act, and certainly, if the legislature had thoughf it right as to those sections, or intended it to apply to them, it would have so enacted.
The seventeenth section" expressly provides that, in the construction of this act, no cumulative or additional disabilities
shall be added, allowed, &c.
The eighteenth section provides, that the periods of limitations established by this act shall commence running from the
date of the passafge thereof, and repeals all acts and parts of acts
conflicting with and contrary to the provisions of this act.
And the nineteenth section enacts that the act shall take effeet from its passage. As the act therefore is express in its
terms, that no suit shall be commenced upon a foreign judgment unless within two years from its passage, as no exceptions
are contained in the act, ajnd by the act they are expressly excluded, the District Court could not have done otherwise than
sustain the deinurrer to plaintiff's replication.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
An action was brought by the plaintiff to recover of-the de-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

527

Bank of the State of Alabama v. Dalton.

fendant, then a citizen of Mississippi, the sum of $ 1,84 debt,
and $ 110 damages, the amount of a recovery had in the Circuit Court of Tuscaloosa County, and State of Alabama, on the
7th day of February, 1843, by the plaintiff against the defendant. This suit was instituted in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, at Pontotoc. The writ was issued on the 10th day of November,
1846. The defendant, at the December term, 1846, pleaded
the statute of limitations of 1844, which bars (1.) all suits on
judgments recovered within the State after the lapse of seven
years; and (2.) all suits on judgments obtained out of the State
in six years, in cases of judgments thereafter rendered; and (3.)
all suits on judgments obtained out of the State before the act
was passed are barred, unless suit be brought thereon within
two years next after the date of the act. On this latter provision the defence depends.
To this plea of the statute of limitations the plaintiff replied,
that at the time of the rendition of the judgment in Alabama,
the defendant was a citizen of the State of Alabama, and continued so to be up to the 10th of November, 1846, the day on
which this suit was brought. To this replication there was a
demurrer by the defendant, which the court sustained, upon
the ground that the statute barred the action.
It would seem that the defendant removed his domicile from
Alabama to Mississippi, and was followed by the judgment, and
immediately sued on reaching there, as he doeg not call in
questior the allegation contained in the declaration that he
was, when sued, a citizen of Mississippi.
The stringency of the case is, that the act of limitations of
Mississippi invites to the State and protects absconding debtors from ofher States, by refusing the creditor a remedy on
his judgment, which is in full force in the State whence the
debtor absconded. And it is insisted, on behalf of the plaintiff, that here is a case where the laws of Mississippi did not
operate on either party (plaintiff or defendant), nor on the foreign judgment, until the day on which suit was brought, and
that therefore no bar could be interposed founded on the lapse
of time, as none had intervened.
That acts of limitation furnish rules of decision, and are
equally binding on the Federal courts as they are on State
courts, is not open to controversy; the question presented is
one of legislative power, and not practice.
In administering justice to enforce contracts and judgmerits,
the States of this Union act independently of each other, and
their courts are governed by the laws and municipal regulations

SUPREME

COURT.

Bank of the State of Alabamz

v. Dalton.

of that State where a remedy is sought, .unless they are controlled
by the Constitution of the United States, or by laws enacted
under its authority. And one question standing in advance of
others is, whether the courts of Mississippi stood thus controlled, and were bound to reject the defence set up under the
State law, because, by the supreme laws of the Union, it could
not be allowed.
The Constitution declares, that "full faith and credit shall
be given in each State to the public acts, records, and judicial
proceedings of every State. And the Congress may, by general
laws, prescribe the manner in which such acts, records, and proceedings shall be proved, and the effect thereof." No other
part of the Constitution bears on the subject.
The act of 26th May, 1790, provides the mode of authentication, and then declares, that "the said records and judicial
proceedings, authenticated as aforesaid, shall have such faith
and credit given to them in every court within the United
States, as they have by law or usage in the courts of the State
from whence the said records are or shall be taken."
The legislation of Congress amounts to this, - that the judgment of another State shall be record evidence of the demand,
and that the defendant, when sued on the judgment, cannot go
behind it'and controvert the contract, or other cause of action,
on which the judgment is founded; that it is evidence of an established demand, which, standing alone, is conclusive between
the parties to it. This is the whole extent to which Congress
has gone. As to what further "effect" Congress may give to
judgments rendered in one State and sued on in another does
not belong to this inquiry; we have to 'deal with the law as
we find it, and not with the extent of power Congress may
have to legislate further in this respect. That the legislation
of Congress, so far as it has gone, does not prevent a State from
passing acts of limitation to bar suits on judgments rendered
in another State, is the settled doctrine of this court. It was
established, on mature consideration, in the case of McElmoyle v. Cohen, 13 Peters, 312, and to the reasons given in
support of this conclusion we refer.
But the argument here is, that the law of Mississippi carries
with it an exception, for the palpable reason that neither party
nor the cause of action was within the operation of the act for
a single day before suit was brought.
1. The act itself makes no exception in 'Tavor of a party
suing under the circumstances of these plaintiffs. So the Supreme.Court of Mississippi held in the case of McClintock v.
Rogrs, 12 Smedes & Marsh. 702; and this is manifestly true
on the face of the act.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

529

Bank of the State of Alabama v. Dalton.

2. The legislature having made no exception, the courts of
justice can make none, as this would be legislating. In the
language of this court in the case of McIver v. Ragan, 2
Wheat. 29, "Wherever the situation of the party was such as,
in the opinion of the legislature, to furnish a motive for excepting him from the operation of the.law, the legislature has made
the exception, and it would be going far for this court to add to
those exceptions." The rule isestablished beyond controversy.
It was so held by the Supr me Court of New York in Troup
v. Smith, '20 Johns. 33; and again in Callis v. Waddy, 2 Munf.
511, by the Court of Appeals of Virginia; and also in Hamilton
v. Smith, 3 Murph. 115, by the Supreme Court of North Carolina; and in Cocke and Jack v. McGinnis, Mart. & Yerg. 361,
in the Supreme Court of Tennessee. Nor are we aware that,
at this time, the reverse is held in any State of this Union. -It
is the doctrine maintained in Stowell v. Zouch, found in Plowden's Reports, and not departed from by the English courts,
even in cases of civil war, when the courts of justice were
closed and no suit could be. brought.
In the first place, as the act of limitations of Mississippi has
no exception that the plaintiff can set up, and as none can be
implied by the courts of justice; and secondly, as the State
law is not opposed to the Constitution of -the United. States or
to the act of Congress of 1790, it is our duty to affirm the
judgment.
The case of Dulles, Wilcox, and Welsh against Richard S.
Jones (No. 108), being in all its features like the one next
above, the judgment therein is also affirmed, for the reasons
stated in the foregoing opinion.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Northem District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgmerit of the said District Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs. .

VOL.

IX.

