390

SUPREME COURT.
Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

the United States should be dismissed, as having been improvidently allowed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi, and on the point or question on
which the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in
opinion, and which was certified to this court for its opinion,
agreeably to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it
is the opinion of this court, that the motion in behalf of the
United States in this cause should have been sustained, and
that the bill as to the United States should be dismissed, as
having been improvidently allowed. Whereupon it is now
here ordered and decreed by this court, that it be so certified to
the said Circuit Court.

WILLIAM H.

TAYLOE, APPELLANT, V. THE MERCHANTs'
suRANCE COmIPANY Or BALTIM'ORE.

FIRE IN-

Where there was a correspondence relating to the insurance of a house against fire,
the insurance company making known the terms upon which they were willing to
insure, the contract was complete when the insured placed a letter in the postoffice accepting the terms.
The house having been burned down whilst the letter of acceptance was in progress
by the mail the company were held responsible.
On the acceptance of the terms proposed, transmitted by due course of mail to the
company, the minds of both parties have met on the sub ject, in the mode contemplated at the time of entering upon the negotiation, and the contract becomes complete.
The practice of this company was to date a policy from the time when the acceptance was made known to their agent.
The agent of the company having instructed the applicant to "send him his check
for the premium, and the business was done," the transmission of the check by
mail was a sufficient payment of the premium within th, terms of the policy.
One of the conditions annexed to the policy was, that preliminary proofs of the loss
should be furnished to the company within a reasonable time. The fire occurred
on the 22d of December, 1844, and the preliminary proofs were furnished on ther
.24th of November, 1845. This would have been too late, but that the company
must be considered to have waived their being furnished, by refusing to issue a
policy, ana denying their responsibility altogether.
The cases in 2 Peters, 25, and 10 Peters, 507, examined.
A court of equity, having obtained jurisdiction to enforce a specific performance of
the contract by compelling the company to issue a policy, can proceed to give such
final relief as the circumstances of the case demand.
A prayer for general relief in this case covers and includes a prayer for specifie performance.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

391

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire ins. Co.

Tins was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Maryland.
A decree pro forma was entered, under the agreement of the
parties, dismissing a bill filed by Tayloe against the insurance
company under the following circumstances.
The office of the insurance company was at Baltimore, but
there was an agent at Fredericksburg, Virginia, who wai John
Minor.
On the 25th of November, 1844, this agent addressed to the
company the following letter.
" Fredericksburg,Virginia, November 25, 1844.
MC
MERCHANTS' FIRE INSURANCE CO.

or

BALTIMoRE : -

"The undersigned, William H. Tayloe, desires to effect insurance to the amount 'of eight thousand dollars on his dwelling-house, of stone covered with wood; main building about
ninety by sixty feet, two stories; two wings, two stories, covered with wood, about fifty by fifty feet, and connected with
the main building by covered *rays of stone, covered with
wood. The above-mentioned house is known by the name of
Mt. Airy, and is situated in Richmond County, about two miles
and a half from the court-house.
"J. MINoR,
for WmILIAx H. TAYLOE.
"P. S. Mr. Tayloe (not Mr. Taylor) passed through this
place this morning on his way to Alabama, and, not having time
to attend to his application, desired me to forward one in his
name. The measures given are as nearly correct as I can remember; but, as the building is worth double the amount proposed, the measures are not of much importance. I have long
been familiarly acquainted with the house. One thing I should
state, that it is built of red sandstone, which in my opinion
will not stand fire. Mr. Tayloe's family inhabits the house,
and' he will return in January or February; meanwhile, I am
to communicate to him your answer.
"J. MINOR."
On the 30th of November, 1844, the following answer was
received.
"M. F. L Co., Baltimore, November 30, 1844.
"J. MINo, Esq. :" Dear Sir, - Yours of 25th and account of 28th are received. I have forwarded Mr. B.'s policy. Mr. - Tayloe's risk

392

SUPREME COURT.
Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

will be taken at the same rate as Mr. Bernard's, viz. 70 cts. on
.8,000, p. $ 56. Policy, $ 1.
"Yours, respectfully,
"Go. B. CoADY, Secretary."
When this letter was received by Minor, Tayloe was in Alabama, and Minor addressed to him the following letter, which
he directed to Demopolis, Alabama, and wvhich was sent from
Demopolis to Macon, where Tayloe then was.
" Fredericksburg,December 2, 1844.
"This day I received from the secretary of the -board of the
'Merchants' Fire Insurance Company of Baltimore an answer
to your application for insurance to the amount of $ 8,000 on
the Mount Airy house; rate 70.
$56.00
Premium on $ 8,000
.
.
Policy

.

.

.

1.00

$57.00

"Should you desir,, to effect the above insurance, send me
your check, payable to my order, for $ 57, and the business is
concluded."
This letter, having been misdirected by Minor, did not reach
the appellaiit until the 20th of December, 1844, and on the
next day he wrote Minor the following letter.
"Macon, Marengo County, Ala., 21st Dec., 1844.
"Dear Minor, - Yours of the 2d came to hand yesterday,
and I send you my check for fifty-seven dollars, *as the premium of insurance on Mount Airy house. You will please
deposit the policy in the Bank of Virginia, in your to*,n, &c.
&e."

-

Meni. indorsed, "1Mem. rec'd December 31st, 1844."
(Check Inclosed.)
"Marengo County, Ala., 21st Dec., 1844.
"$ 57. Bank of Virginia, Fred'g, pay John Minor, Esq., or
order, fifty-seven dollars, premium of insurance on Mt. Airy
house.
"9Wx.
H. TAYor.Y
Written across the face,

-"This

check not to be presented."

On the 22d of December, 1844, the house was burned down.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

393

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

On the Ist of January, 1845, Minor addressed a letter to
Tayloe, from which the following is an extract.
"Fredericksburg, Jan. 1st, 1845.
"'My dear friend, -Your letter of the 21st ultimo came to
hand yesterday, unhappily too late. You have before this
time, perhaps, received information that the centre building of
Mount Airy was burnt on Sunday week (Dec. 22d)," &c., &c.
Mr. Minor was informed of the loss by Mr. Charles Tayloe,
on the day after it took place.
In the summer of 1845, Tayloe called at the office of the
company, and had some conversation respecting the insurance
and the burning of his house, and in November, 1845, furnished
them with the preliminary proofs of the loss which are always
required to be handed in as soon as possible after the loss, by
the conditions annexed to the printed policies of the company.
To the letter accompanying the preliminary proof, the company returned the following answer.
"_llerchants' FireInsurance Co., Baltimore,
Dec. 15th, 1845.
"W. H. TAYLOE, Esq.: "Dear Sir, - The Merchants' Fire Insurance Company has
received your letter of 24th November, 1845, containing notice
of claim for loss by fire on 22d December, 1844, and I am instructed to reply that the company declines to pay the claim
as thereby made by you, and that, under the circumstances of
the case, it does not waive any grounds of defence whatever,
but will avail itself of all and any that by law it may.
"Vcry rpspectfully, your obedient servant,
GEo. B. CoALE, sec'y."
(Signed,).
During the -progress of the suit, the following admission was
filed in the Circuit Court by the respective counsel.
" Admission.
is admitted that the printed advertisement (marked complainant's No. 1) of John Minor, dated on the 27th July, 1842,
giving notice of his agency, &~as published by him in
a newspaper published in Fredericksburg, Virginia. It is also
admitted, that the letter of said Minor to Win. H. Tayloe, the
complainant, dated December 2d, 1844 (marked complainant's
No. 2). was written by said Minor, and addressed to said Tayloe, at Demopolis. Alabama. and afterward9 sent from DemonCIt

394

SUPREME

COURT.

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

olis to Macon, Alabama, at the dates of the two postmarks
thereon, where said Tayloe then was; and that the letter from
said Minor to said Tayloe, dated Ist January, 1844 (1845),
(marked complainant's No. 3,) was written by said Minor. It
is agreed that the charter of the said defendants (Act of Maryland, 1835, ch. 65, and supplements) may be used by either
party, and read from the printed laws, as if proved ; and also
it is admitted that the printed blank policy, filed with the defendants' answer as an exhibit, is the form uniformly used by
said defendants from its incorporation till this time, and that the
exhibits G, H, and I, with the defendants' answer, are admitted; and all of said above papers may be used, at the trial of
the above cause, as if the same had been regularly proved by
the respective parties.
" JOHN GLENN, for Complainant.
JoHN J. LLOYD, for Defendants."
In April, 1846, Tayloe filed his bill in the Circuit Court. It
stated the substance of the facts above mentioned, and concluded thus: ,To the end, therefore, that he may have redress on the
premises, and that by a decree of this court the said defendants
may be ordered and adjudgedto pay to your orator the amount
of actual loss which he has sustained, to an amount not exceeding eight thousand dollars, and that he may have such further relief as his case may require: may it please your honors
to order that a writ of subpoena may issue, directed to said Merchants' Fire Insurance Company of Baltimore, to be and appear
in this court to answer this bill, and to stand to and abide by
the decree in the premises; and he will ever pray, &c.
CCR. JOHNSON,

J.

GLENN."

The answer of the appellees admits, that John Minor was the
agent of the appellees, at Fredericksburg, Virginia, " to receive
and forward to appellees proposals for insurance against fire" ;
that said agent did, on 25th of November, 1844, in behalf of
the appellant, send a proposal for insurance, which was answered on the 30th of November, 1844; but that no reply was
received from appellant till the 31st of December, 1844, by a
letter inclosing appellant's check for the amount of the premium. That immediately on the receipt of said reply, the appellant was informed that it came too late; that the dwelling
proposed to be insured had been burnt on the 22d of December,
1844, and that the check had not been and would not be pre-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

395

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

sented for payment, and that said check was cancelled. The
answer further exhibits a copy of the printed form of the policy
uniformly used by the appellees in 1844, and -before and since
that time, and avers that it contains the terms and conditions
on which the appellees insured, and that all answers of the appellees to applications for insurance against fire have always
been with reference to the terms of said policy, and the printed
conditions thereto annexed; and it further avers, that the reply
of the appellees to the application on behalf of the appellant, in
this instance, was made with reference to said terms and printed conditions, and that except on those terms and conditions
the appellees would not and did not offer to insure the appellant.
The answer further denies that any contract of insurance was
at any time made by appellees with the appellant, or that any
premium of insurance was paid by appellant or received by appellees, or that the appellant had a right to demand a pblicy
of insurance, or payment for loss by fire. It also denies that
the appellant, before filing his bill, required appellees to furnish
him with a policy of insurance, or that any demand of payment for the loss by fire was made, except as therein specified,
in the summer of 1845, and after that time, as particularly set
forth in the answer. The answer further insists, that, if it
should be held that the transactions relating to said application
did amount to a contract of insurance, yet it was a contract on
the -terms and conditions specified in the policy, and that the
appellant never complied therewith, and particularly never complied with the seventh printed condition which is set forth in
the answer, and therefore he is not entitled to demand payment.
Admission,
The blank policy (which, it is admitted, -see
suepra, -"is the form uniformly used by the appellees from
their incorporation till this time ") provides, " that the amount
of such loss or damage as the assured shall be entitled to receive
by virtue of this policy shall be paid within sixty days after
notice and proof thereof made by the assured in conformity to
the conditions of this corporation subjoined to this policy."
It also provides, that the "insurance is made and accepted in
reference to the conditions which accompany these presents; and
in every case the said conditions are to be used to explain the
rights and obligations of the parties, except so far forth as the
policy itself specially declares those rights and obligations."
The fifth condition is, -" No insurance will be considered
as made, or binding, until the premium be actually paid."
The seventh condition provides, that "all persons insured
by this company, sustaining any loss or damage by fire, are

396

SUPREME COURT.
Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

forth'with to give notice to the company, and as soon thereafter
as possible to deliver in as particular an account of their loss or
damage, signed by their own 'hands, as the nature of the/case
will admit, and make proof of the same by their oath or affirmation," &c., &c. "And, until' such affidavits and certificates
are produced, the loss shall not be payable."
The appellant examined several witnesses under a commission issued to Fredericksburg, Ya. John Minor, the agent,
proves that the appellant authorized and requested him to apply to- the appellees to effect the insurance, and that in consequence thereof the application was written by him. That on
the 31st of December, 1844, he received a letter from appellant
inclosing his check for $ 57, whicb the appellant directed to be
applied to the payment of the insurance on the prolierty, but
that the check was never presented for payrhent, because the
property on which the insurance was to have been effected was
destroyed on the 22d of December, 1844. That soon after the
receipt of said letter and check, the deponent wrote to appellant that his check had been received, but too late. And on
his cross-examination he proves that he held said check subject
to appellant's order, and wrote across its face, "This check is
not to be presented," of all which he duly advised the appellant by letter written, as he thinks, immediately after the receipt of the check, and that when the appellant returned to
Virginia, deponent told him he was ready to return the check,
and tendered it to him, &c. ; that he kept it, by appellant's
direction, but always subject to appellant's authority. He also
proves, in answer to the sixth cross-nterrogatory, that, if there
had been no fire before the receipt of the check, and a policy
had been issued, the insurance, according to the custom and
practice of his agency, would have begun, in ordinary cases, on
the day on which payment of the check was made; but that in
this particular case, as deponent was willing to cash the appellarit's check, it would have begun on the day the check came
to hand.
In November, 1847, the cause came on for trial, when the
Circuit Court .passed a decree, (which it has already been stated
Was pro forma under the agreement of the parties,) that the bill
should be dismissed, with costs.
The complainant, Tayloe, appealed to this court.
It was, argued by Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General), for the
appellant, and by Mr. Lloyd and Mr. Nelson, for the appellees.
For the appellant it was contended,

-

1st. That on the 21st of December, 1844, a contract for the

JANUARY

TERMi 1850.

397

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

insurance of the appellant's house of Mount Airy was entered
into between him and the appellees, through their agent, and the
premium paid by the appellant as agreed on, and that he was
entitled to a policy of insurance accordingly, taking effect from
that day. Story on Contracts, §§ 378, 384, and the cases cited
in the notes; 1 Duer on Insurance, 67, 68, and the cases cited
in notes 8 and 9, pages 114 to 130; Hamilton v. Lycoming Insurance Co., 5 Barr, 339 ; Story on Agency, % 17, 18, 19, 126,
127; Lightbody v. The North American Insurance Co., 23
Wendell, 22; Armistead v. The Merchants' Fire Insurance Co.
of Baltimore, Circuit Court U. S. Md., unreported.
2d. That the loss to the extent of the whole amount insured
occurred after the policy took effect, and that the loss is recoverable in the present suit. 1 Duer on Insurance, 66; Perkins v. The Washington Insurance Co., 4 Cowen, 646; Carpenter v. The Mutual Safety Insurance Co., 4 Sandford, 410.
3d. That the delay in furnishing the preliminary proofs was
occasioned by the appellees, who cannot in consequence take advantage of it, and that the appellees have virtually waived their
production. Columbia Insurance Co. v. Lawrence, 10 Peters,
514; Cornell v. Leroy, 9 Wendell, 165; Turley v- The North
American Fire Insurance Co., 25 Wendell, 378'; McMasters v.
The Westchester Mutual Insurance Co., 25 Wendell, 382; Al]egre v. The Maryland Insurance Co., 6 Harr. & Johns. 412;
Armistead v. The Merchants' Fire Insurance Co. of Baltimore,
supra.
The counsel for the appellees contended,
1st. That the appellant has not shown by the evidence any
contract of insurance on the part of the appellees in respect of
the property destroyed.
24. That, assuming such contract to have been shown, the
appellant has not complied with its terms and stipulations so as
to entitle him to recover from the appellees. The Columbia
Insurance Co. v. Lawrence, 2 Pet. 25; Columbia Insurance
Co. v. Lawrence, 10 Peters, 507; Carpenter v. The Prov.
Wash. Insurance Co., 16 Peters, 496; Carpenter v, The Prov.
Wash. Ins. Co., 4 How. 185; Leadbetter v. Insurance Co., 13
Maine, 265; Worsley v. Wood and others, 6 Durnf. & East,
710r; Oldman v. Bewicke, 2 H. Black. 577, note a; Inman v.
The Western Fire Insurance Co., 12 Wendell, 452; Edwards
v. The Baltimore Fire Insurance Co., 3 Gill, 177.
3d. That even if the appellant has shown the existence of
the allege.d contract, and his compliance with its terms, h'e has.
misconceived his remedy,. a court of law being competent to
vorL. Ix.
34
-

398

SUPREME

COURT.

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

afford him adequate redress. Act of Congress approved 24th
September, 1789, § 16.
4th. That, if relievable in equity, the bill contains no sufficient statement of the contract sought to be enforced, or of the
performance of the terms thereof by the appellant. 2 Story's
Equity, § 736, 771; Colson v. Thompson, 2 Wheaton, 336;
Cross v. Cohen, 3 Gill, 257; Carpenter v. Prov. Wash. Ins. Co.,
16 Peters, 496; Same v. Same, 4 Howard, 185.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court for the
District of Maryland, which was rendered for the defendants.
The case in the court below was this. William H. Tayloe,
of Richmond County, Virginia, applied to John Minor, the
agent of the defendants, residing at Fredericksburg in that
State, for an insurance upon his dwelling-house to the amount
of $ 8,000 for one year, and, as he was about leaving home for
the State of Alabama, desired the agent to make the application
in his behalf.
The application was made accordingly, under the date of
25th November, 1S44, and an answer received from the secretary
of the company, stating that the risk would be taken at seventy
cents on the thousand dollars, the premium amounting to the
sum of fifty-six dollars. The agent stated in the application
to the company the reason why it had not been signed by
Tayloe; that he had gone to the State of Alabama on business, and would not return till February following; and that
he was desired to communicate to him at that place the answer of the company.
On receiving the answer, the agent mailed a letter directed
to Tayloe, under date of the 2d of Deceml 1r, advising him of
the terms of the insurance, and adding, "Should you desire to
effect the insurance, send me your check payable to my order
for $ 57, and the business is concluded." The additional dollar was added for the policy.
This letter, in consequence of a misdirection, did not reach
Tayloe till the 20th of the month; who, on the next day,
mailed a letter in answer to the agent, expressing his assent to
the terms, and inclosing his check for the premium as requested. He also desired that the policy should be deposited in the
bank for safe-keeping. This letter of acceptance was received
on the 31st at Fredericksburg by the agent, who mailed a letter
in answer the next day, communicating to Tayloe his refusal
to carry into effect the insurance, on the ground -that his acceptance came too late, the centre building of the dwelling-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

399

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

house in the mean time, on the 22d of the month, having been
consumed by fire.
The company, on being advised of the facts, confirmed the
view taken of the case by their agent; and refused to issue the
policy, or pay the loss.
A bill was filed in the court below by the insured against
the company, setting forth, substantially, the above facts, and
praying that the defendants might be decreed to pay the
loss, or for such other relief as the complainant might be entitled to.
I. Several objections have been taken to the right of the
complainant to recover, which it will be necessary to notice;
but the principal one is, that the contract of insurance was
not complete at the time the loss happened, and therefore, that
the risk proposed to be assumed had never attached.
Two positions-have been taken by the counsel for the company for the purpose of establishing this ground of defence.
1. The want of notice to the agent of the company of the
acceptance of the tetrps of the insurance; and,
2. The non-payment of the premium.
The first position assumes that, where the company have
made an offer through the mail to insure upon certain terms,
the agreement is not consummated by the mere acceptance of
the offer by the party to whom it is addressed ; that the contract is still open and incomplete until the notice of acceptance
is received ; and that the company are at liberty -to withdraw
the offer at any time before the arrival of the notice; and this
even without communicating notice of the withdrawal to the
applicant ;- in other words, that the assent of the company,
express or implied, after the acceptance of the terms proposed.
by the insured, is essential to a consummation of the contract.
The effect of this construction is, to leave the property of
the insured uncovered until his acceptance of the offer has
reached the company, and has received their assent; for, if.the
contract is incomplete until notice of the acceptance, till then
the company may retract the offer, as neither party is bound
until the negotiation has resulted in a complete bargain between
the parties.
In our apprehension, this view of the transaction is not in
accordance with the usages and practice of these companies
in taking risks; nor with the understanding of merchants and
other business men dealing with them; nor with the principles of law, settled in analogous cases, governing contracts
entered into by correspondence between parties residing at a
distance.

SUPREME COURT.
Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

On the contrary, we are of opinion that an offer under the
circumstances stated, prescribing the terms of insurance, is intended, and is to be deemed, a valid undertaking on the part
of the company, that they will be bound, according to the
terms tendered, if an answer is transmitted in due course of
mail, accepting them ; and that it cannot be withdrawn, unless
the withdrawal reaches the party to whom it is addressed
before his letter of reply announcing the acceptance has been
transmitted.
This view of the effect of the correspondence seems to us
to be but carrying out the intent of the parties, as plainly manifested by their acts and declarations.
On the acceptance of the terms proposed, transilitted by
due course of mail to the company, the minds of both parties
have met on the subject, in the mode contemplated at the time
of entering upon the negotiation, and the contract becomes
complete. The party to whom the proposal is addressed has
a right to regard it as intended as a continuing offer until it
shall have reached him, and shall be in due time accepted or
rejected.
Such is the plain import of the offer. And besides, upon any
other view, the proposal amounts t9 nothing, as the acceptance
would bebut the adoption of the terms tendered, to be, in turn,
proposed by the applicant to the company for their approval or
rejection. For, if the contract is still open unil the company
is advised of an acceptance, it follows, of course, that the
acceptance may be repudiated at any time before the notice is
received. Nothing is effectually accomplished by an act of
acceptance.
It is apparent, therefore, that such an interpretation of the
acts of the parties would defeat the object which both had in
view in entering upon the correspondence.
The fallacy of the argiment, in our judgment, consists in
the assumption, that the contract cannot be consummated without a knowledgp on the part of the company that the offer has
been accepted. This is the point of the objection. But a
little reflection will show, that, in all cases of contracts entered
into between parties at a distance by correspondence, it is impossible that both should have a knowledge of it the moment
it becomes complete. This can only exist where both parties
are present.
The position may be illustrated by the case before us. If the
contract became complete, as we think it did, on the acceptance of the offer by.the appli~ant, on the 21st December, 1844,
the- company, of course, could have no knowledge of it until

JANUARY

TERM,

1850.

401

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

the letter of acceptance reached the agent, on the 31st of the
month; and, on the other hand, upon the hypothesis it was
not complete until notice of the acceptance, and then became
so, the applicant could have no knowledge of it at the time it
took effect. In either aspect, and, indeed, in any aspect. in
which the case can be presented, one of the parties must be
unadvised of the time when the contract takes effect, as its
consummation must depend upon the act of one of them in the
absence of the other.
The negotiation being carried on through the mail, the offer
and acceptance cannot occur at the same moment of time;
nor, for the same reason, can the meeting of the minds of the
parties on the subject be known by each at the moment of concurrence ; the acceptance must succeed the offer after the lapse
of some interval of time ; and, if the process 'is to be carried
farther in order to complete the bargain, and notice of the acceptance must be received, the only effect is to reverse the
position of the parties, changing the knowledge of the completion from the one party to the other.
It is obviously impossible, therefore, under the circumstances
stated, ever to perfect a contract by correspondence, if a knowledge of both parties at the moment they become bound is an
essential element in making out *the obligation.
And as it
must take effect, if effect is given at all to an endeavour to enter
into a contract by correspondence, in the absence of the knowledge of one of the parties at the time of its consummation, it
seems to us more consistent with the acts and declarations of
the parties, to consider it complete on the transmission of the
acceptance of the offer in the way they themselves contemplated; instead of postponing its completion till notice of
such acceptance has been received and assented to by the
company.
For why make the offer, unless intended that an assent to
its terms should biid them? And why require any further
assent on their part, after an unconditional acceptance by the
party to whom it is addressed?
We have said that this view is in accordance with the
usages and practice of these companies, as well as with the
general principles of law governing contracts entered into by
absent parties.
In the instructions of this company to their agent at Fredericksburg, he is advised to transmit all applications for insurance to the office for consideration; and that, upon the receipt
of an answer, if the applicant accepts the terms, the contract
is considered complete without waiting to communicate the
34 *

402

SUPREME COURT.
Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

acceptance to the company; and the policy to be thereafter
issued is to bear date from the time of the acceptance.
The company desire no further communication on the subject, after they have settled upon the terms of the risk, and
sent them for the inspection of the applicant, in order to the
consummation of the bargain. The communication of'the
acceptance by the agent afterwards is to enable them to make
out the policy. The contract is regarded as complete on the
acceptance of the terms.
This appears, also, to have been the understanding of the
agent; for, on communicating to the insured the terms received
from the company, he observes, "Should you desire to effect
the above insurance, send me your check payable to my order
for fifty-seven dollars, and the business is concluded "; obviously enough importing, that no other step would be necessary
to give effect to the insurance of the property upon the terms
stated.
The cases of Adams v. Linsdell, I Barn. & Ald. 681, and
Mactier's Adm'rs v. Frith, 6 Wend. 104; are authorities to show
that the above view is in conformity with the general principles of law governing the formation of all contracts entered
into between parties residing at a distance by means of correspondence.
The unqualified acceptance by the one of the terms proposed by the other, transmitted by due course of mail, is regarded as closing the bargain, from the time of the transmission
of the acceptance.
This is, also, the effect of the case of Eliason v. Henshaw,
4 Wheat. 228, in this court, though. the point was not necessarily involved in the decision of the case. 'The acceptance
there had not been according to the terms of the bargain proposed, for which reason the plaintiff failed.
2. The next position against the claim is the non-payment
of the premium.
One of the conditions annexed to the policies of the company.is, that no insurance will be considered as made or binding until the premium be actually paid; and one of the instructions to the agent was, that no credit should be given for premiums under any circumstances.
But 'the answer to this objection is, that the premium, in
judgment of law, was actually paid at the time the contract
became complete. The mode of payment had not been prescribed by the company, whether in specie, bills of a particular
bank, or otherwise; the agent, therefore, was at liberty to
exercise a discretion in the matter, and prescribe the mode of

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

403

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

payment; and, accordingly, we find him directing, in this case,
that it may be paid by a check payable to his order for the
amount. It is admitted that the insured had funds in the bank
upon which it was drawn, at all times from the date of the
check till it was received by the agent, sufficient to meet it;
and that it would have been paid on presentment.
It is not doubted, that, if the check for the premium had been
received by the agent from the hands of the insured, it would
have been sufficient; and in the view we have taken of the
case, the transmission of it by mail, according to the directions
given, amounts, in judgment of law, to the same thing. Doubtless, if the check had been lost or destroyed in the transmission, the insured would have been bound to make it good;
but the agent, in this respect, trusted to his responsibility, having full confidence in his ability and good faith in the transactiou.
II. Another objection taken to the recovery is, that the usual
preliminary.proofs were not furnished, according to the requirement of the seventh article of the conditions annexed to the
policies of the company. These are required to be furnished
within a reasonable time after the happening of the loss. The
fire occurred on the 22d of December, 1844, and the prelimi-"
nary proofs were not furnished till the 24th of November, 1845.
This was, doubtless, too late, and the objection would have
been fatal to the right of the complainant, if the production of
these proofs were essential to the recovery.
But the answer is, that the ground upon which the company
originally placed their resistance to the payment of the loss,
and which is still mainly relied on as fatal to the proceedings,
operated as a waiver of the necessity for the production of the
preliminary proofs ; and that is, that no obligation to insure the
loss was ever entered into by the company, the contract being
incomplete at the time it occurred. On this ground they refused to issue the policy, which would have imposed upon the
insured a strict compliance with its conditions; or to recognize
any obligations arising out of the arrangement between him
and their agent.
The objection went to the foundation of the claim, which,
in connection with the refusal to issue the policy, superseded
the necessity of producing these proofs; as the production
would have been but an idle ceremony on the part of the insured, in the further prosecution of his right. Why produce
them after the company had denied the contract, and refusdd
the policy?
The case of the Columbian Insurance Company v. Lawrence,

SUPREME COURT.
Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

2 Peters, 25, has been referred to on this point. An objection
was there taken, on the trial, to the sufficiency of the preliminary proofs, on the ground that the certificate of the magistrate
was not in conformity with the ninth article of the conditions.
The particular objection had not been taken by the company
when the proofs were furnished, although several others had
been, to their liability; and the court left to the jury the question, among others, whether the company had not thereby
waived the objection to the sufficiency of the certificate.
The plaintiff recovered; and on the motion for a new trial,
among other grounds assigned for granting it, was this instruction of the court. Jt was held that there was no evidence in
the case from which the jury could properly infer a waiver.
The preliminary proofs had been presented to the company
on the 16th of February, 1824, soon after the loss. The suit
was discontinued,- and a new certificate procured from the
magistrate correcting the defects in the first, and furnished to
the company, on the 14th of February, 1829, five years after the
first had been delivered. A new suit was brought, and the case
as reported the second time will be found in 10 Peters, 507.
On the second trial, the objectioh was taken that the certificate had not been produced within a reasonable time after the
loss; but the court held otherwise, placing their decision upon
the ground, that the laches were not properly imputable to the
insured, but to the company, on account of their neglect to give
notice of the defect when the first certificate was presented,
and of the mistaken confidence which the party had placed in
them. The court say, "If the company had contemplated the
objection, it would have been but ordinary fair-dealing to have
apprised the plaintiff of it; for it was then obvibus that the defect might have been immediately supplied; as it was, the
company, unintentionally it may be, by their silence misled
him."
It is manifest, on an examination of the two cases, that the
doctrine- of the first on this point of waiver was virtually ovdrruled, for, if maintained in the second, it would have upheld the
rulin at the Circuit in the first. The reasons given in support
of the corrected certificate, procured and furnished some five
years after the loss, are cogent and unanswerable in favor of the
position, that the conduct of the company in not objecting to the
defect in the first one, at the time it was furnished, operated to
mislead the party, and should have been regarded as a waiver
of the objection.
The cases are very full upon this point, and clearly establish
the position that the preliminary proofs, under the circumstan-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

405

Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co,

ces stated in this case, were dispensed with by the company,
as inferrible from the ground upon which they placed their denial of liability. 9 Wend. 165; 25 ib. 378, 382; 6 Harr. &
Johns. 412; 6 Cow. 404.
III. It has also been objected, that the plaintiff had an adequate remedy at law, and was not, therefore, under the necessity of resorting to a court of equity; which may very well be
admitted.
But it by no means follows from this, that a court of chancery will not entertain jurisdiction. Had the suit been instituted before the loss occurred, the appropriate, if not the only..
remedy would have been. in that court, to enforce a specific
performance,- and compel the company to issue the policy.
And this remedy is as :appropriate after as before the loss, if
not as essential, in oi~ier to facilitate the proceedings at law.
No doubt, a count could have been framed upoi the agreement
to insure, so as to have maintained the action at law. But the
proceedings would have been more complicated and embarrassing than upon the policy. The party, therefore, had a right to
resort to a court of equity to compel the delivery of the policki
either before or after the happening of the loss; and being
properly in that court after the loss happened, it is according
to the established course of proceeding,'in order to avoid delay
and expense to the parties, to proceed and give such final relief
as the circumstances of the case demand.
Such relief was given in the case of Motteux v. The London
Assurance Company, 1 Atk. 545, and in Perkins v. The Washington Insurance Company, 4 Cow. 646. See also 1 Duer, 66
and 110, and 2 Phillips, 583.
As the only real question in the case is the one which a
court of equity must necessarily have to decide, in the exercise
of its peculiar jurisdiction in enforcing a specific execution of
the agreement, it would be an idle technicality for that court
to turn the party over to his remedy at law upon the policy.
AnaI, no doubt, it was a strong sense of this injustice that led
-the court at an early day to establish the rule, that, having properly acquired jurisdiction'over the subject for a necessary purpose, it was the duty of the court to proceed and do final and
complete justice between the parties, where it could as well be
done in that court as in proceedings at law.
IV. It is further objected, that, admitting the claim to be
properly enforceable in equity, still the complainant is not entitled to the relief sought, on the ground that the bill contains
no sufficient statement of the contract, or of the performance
of the conditions, and also for want of a proper prayer.

406

SUPREME COURT.
Tayloe v. Merchants' Fire Ins. Co.

We are of opinion that these several objections are not well
founded. The contract as set forth we have already considered, and held complete and binding on the company; and
further, that the denial of having entered into the agreement,
and refusal to issue the policy, also set forth, are sufficient
ground upon which to infer.a waiver of the production of the
preliminary proofs, as a condition of liability; and if sufficient
ground to infer a waiver, it was of course unnecessary to set
forth these proofs in the bill. And as to the prayer, it is sufficient to say, that the prayer for general relief which is here
found will enable the court to make such a decree as the complainant may show himself entitled to, upon the facts set forth
in the stating part of the bill.
The pleading is not very formal, nor very cautiously drawn,
and, in the absence of the prayer for general relief, might have
led to embarrassment in making the proper decree in the case.
There is a specific prayer for a decree for the loss, but it would
have been more formal and appropriate, regarding the ground
of jurisdiction in these cases, to have added also a prayer for a
specific performance of the agreement to insure.
But the particular relief permitted under a general prayer,
where the statement in the body of the bill is sufficient to entitle -the party to it, meets the difficulty suggested, and well
warrants the decree proposed to be entered. (Story, Eq. P.,
§§ 41, 42, and cases.)
Upon the whole, without pursuing the examination further,
we are of opinion that the decree of the court below should be
reversed, and that the cause be remitted, with directions to the
court to take such further proceedings therein as may be necessary to carry into effect the opinion of this court.*
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration, whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, with directions to that court to take such proceedings therein as may be necessary to carry into effect the opinion
of this court.
* See the Appendix.

