i.mA'UAIRY

TERM, 1850.

451

Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

Bir
DOE, EX DEM. OF CATHARINE LOUISA BARBARIE, AN
BA DE, DANIEL -R. BROWER AND ArN B. BROWER, HiS Wi,
CUnTis LEWIS AND ISABELLA LEWIS, HIS WIFE, JOHN T. LAcxE"

JOHN

AND

MARGARET LACKEY, HIS WIFE, HEIRS AND

TATIVES OF ROBERT FARMER,

DECEASED,

v.

LEGAL REPRESEN-

THE MAYOR, ALDER-

MEN, AND COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MOBILE, AND JOSEPH

CLEMENTS.
Under the two acts of Congress passed on the 8th of May, 1822 (4 Stat. at Large,
700 and 708), the register and receiver of the land office were not empowered to
settle conflicting titles but only conflicting locations.
In this case they did not describe a boundary line by visible objects, but called to
bound upon another line. The authority given to these officers was to be exercised only in cases of imperfect
grants, confirmed by the act of Congress, and not cases of perfect title. i these
they had ro authority to act.
Hence, where a State court left the question of location to be settled by a jury, this'
court will not disturb the judgment of thd State court founded upon such finding.

Tuxs case was brought up, from the Supreme Court of Alabama, by a writ of error, issued under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.
It was a branch of the preceding case of the same plaintiff
against Eslava. In the statement of that case, it is mentionedthat the suit was brought againist all the defendants conjointly,
but that the city of Mobile obtain ed leave to sever in their plea.
This case is the result of that severance.
The title of the plaintiff is set forth in extenso in the report
of the preceding case, and need not be here repeated. The
defendants produced no official survey or patent for the lot in
question, but relied exclusively upon the act of'Congress passed
on the 26th of May, 1824 (4 Stat. at Large, 66).
The bill of exceptions states all the points in which this case
differs from the preceding one.
Bill of Rxceptions.
"Doe, ex dem. Farmer's Heirs,
V.

Roe, Mayor and Aldermen of~ Ejectmont.
the city of Mobile, and JosephI
Clements, Tenant, &c.
"Mobile Circuit Court.
"Be it remembered, that, on the trifl of this cause, the
plaintiff,. to maintain the issue oth' his part, produced and read
to the court and jury from the third volume of the American
State Papers, title Public Lands, page 18, an abstract of the

452

SUPREME

COURT.

Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.
title to the lessors of the plaintiff, being claim No. 45, and
wvhich it is agreed may be read from the said book on the hearing of the cause in the Supreme Court of this State, or the
United States, if it shall be carried thither. He likewise read
to the court and jury the act of Congress passed the 8th day.
of May, 1822, confirming said claim. He further read to the
court and jury a patent from the United States, issued in pursuance thereof, dated the 14th day of November, 1837, for the
premises in question, granted to the heirs of the said Robert
Farmer, in right of Philip Gonjon de Grondel, wherein the said
premises are described as follows, to wit: - Beginning at a
post on the line of the claim of William McVoy, at the distance
of twenty-four feet north of the northeast angle of Government
Street and Emanuel Street; running thence north sixty-nine
degrees east (with the line of MeVoy), eighty-nine feet seven
inches to a stake, the southeast angle of a brick cotton-shed,
bearing north seventeen degrees west, distant forty-two feet
one inch ; thence north seventeen degrees forty minutes west,
two hundred and twenty-four feet, to the south boundary of the
bakehouse lot; thence with saia south boundary, south seventyfive degrees fifteen minutes west, eighty-nine feet six inches, to
the east boundary of Emanuel Street; thence with said street,
south seventeen degrees forty minutes east, two hundred and
thirty-four feet, to the place of beginning; containing twenty
thousand four hundred and ninety-five superficial feet English,
and being a lot in the city of Mobile, and State of Alabama, in
township four south of range one west, in the district of lands
subject to sale at St. Stephen's, Alabama, a copy of which
patent is hereto attached as a part of this record. The plaintiff proved the defendants in possession of the premises, the particular location thereof, the heirship of the lessors, &c.
And it
was further proved on the part of the plaintiff, that Robert
Farmer was a British, subject, a native of North America, and
died in Mobile about the year 1780 or 1781, as appears from
the deposition of Madame Beaumont hereto attached as a part
of this record ; that he was an'officer of the British army at
the time of his death; that the family, shortly after the conquest by Spain of that Province, removed from the Province,
and none of them returned during the whole period of the
Spanish supremacy. And that De Vobiscey, father of one of
the lessors, came to Mobile in 1818 or 1819, to set up the
claims of theL atnily. The defendants, for the purpose of maintaining their issues, introduced the act of Congress of the 26th
of May, 1824, entitled I An act granting certain lots of ground
to the corporation of the city of Mobile, and to certain indi-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

453

Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

viduals of said city,' and claimed the lot in dispute as a portion
of the bakehouse lot specified in said act.
"The defendants produced no official survey nor patent from
the land office for the lot, but relied on said act alone. To establish the boundaries of the said lot, they had the depositions
of Catharine Walters, Thaddeus Sandford, and Nicholas Weeks,
taken by commission issued and executed regularly, which said
depositions are hereto attached as a part of this record. The
plaintiff objected to the reading of the depositions, because the
evidence.was irrelevant, incompetent, and improper under the
issue, and went to contradict, to vary, and to change the legal
import and terms of the patent introduced by the plaintiff.
" The court overruled the objection, and suffered the depositions to be read, to which the plaintiff excepts. The defendants called a number of witnesses, and examined them as to the
marks and memorials that existed of the bakehouse lot, as it
was used and occupied in Spanish times, and as to those which
remained after the departure of the Spanish government, (none
of which appeared in the patent under which the plaintiffs
claimed, either as landmarks or otherwise, nor are they now
visible-nor did any of the witnesses swear that they were the
lines of the lot aforesaid, nor was it proved who put them
there, or when they were put there,) and proved the facts of
the.possession by the adjoining proprietors, Joaquin de Orsono
and Miguel Eslava, in Spanish times; and that in 1824, when
the lot was taken by the defenda:nts, the mayor and aldermen
of said city leased a portion to third persons, without objection
by the plaintiff's lessors, or the heirs of Eslava, that the witnesses knew of (four of these witnesses were members of the
corporation in 1824), bdth of whom claimed the lot south and
bounding on the king's bakehouse, and that no suit had been
brought before this suit for the same; that the witnesses knew
of no written evidence of any suit that*was before the jury;
that improvements had been made on the lot by the defendants, on the line as now claimed by them.
"The object of all this testimony on the part of the defendants being to show that the king's bakehouse lot was as it is
claimed to be by the defendants, and to show that the defendants are not in possession of any lands that did not fori a portion of the said lot, and that the courses and distances laid
down in the patent conflict with the right of defendants, which
evidence was objected to by the plaintiff as" irrelevatit, improper, and incompetent, which exceptions were overruled by
the court. The defendants, further to establish their southern
boundary line, prp'ved that the next lot was claimed by Joaquin

454

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

de Orsono in Spanish times, and was used and improved by him;
that he parted with his possession and title to Miguel Eslava,
who whs at the time commissary and storekeeper for the Spanish troops.at Mobile, who was in possession when De Vobiscey
came to the State, and who has been controverting the right
of Farmer's heirs ever since, and that his heirs are now in possession of the said lot, and have been for more than twelve
years. The defendants proved that their claim to the possession was not-disputed by said Eslava or his heirs; further, the
defendants produced the book. of translated Spanish records,
from the County Court of Mobile County, and offered to read a
deed from Francis Fontanella to Joaquin de Orsono, on record
in said book, for the lot south, calling for the bakehouse lot as
the northern boundary, bearing date in 1801, and a copy of
which is attached as part of this record. The plaintiffs counsel objected to this deed because the same was irrelevant, and
incompetent, and because there was no evidence that the same
had ever been offered to any commissioner appointed under the
acts df Congress for th• examination of private land claims, under the treaty between the United States and France. The
court overruled the objections, and the deed was read to the
jury, to which the plaintiff excepts. The French grant to
Grondel, calling for the boulangerie du roi for its northern
boundary, was before the jury, and read by defendants' counsel. There was no evidence that the claim to possession was
ever disputed by Eslava or his heirs, but there was evidence
that the. corporation, shortly after they took possession of the
lot (as testified by Josiah Wilkins, who was a member of the
corporation at the time), procured the fence that bounded the
bakehouse lot on the south to be moved in the night-time,
some thirty or thirty-five feet south, upon the premises claimed
by the plaintiff, while the said Vobiscey, one of the heirs of
Farmer; was in possession thqreof. This was the substance of
all the eviderice given, before the jury retired to consult on their
verdict. The court read to the jury, as a part of its charge, a
statement and opinion of the Supreme Court of the State of
Alabama, in this same case, reversing the judgment heretofore
rendered in this court in favor of the plaintiff, which statement
and opinion is in these words and figures, (see the manuscript
hereto appended, marked A,) and instructed the jury, that the
said statement and opinion were the correct and true law of the
case, to which the plaintiff excepted. The court in its zharge
to the jury further instructed them, that the act of Congress of
the 26th May, 1824, conferred upon the defendants as perfect
and conclusive a title, and their claim and title. to the bake-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

455

Doe v. The City of Mobile et el.

house lot was precisely equal in every'respect under said act,
as the plaintiffs title was under the patent on which he
claimed, and was of equal dignity with the same. After the
charge had been delivered by the court to the jury, and before
they retired from the box. the plaintiff requested the court to
instruct the jury, that the act of Congress of the 26th May,
1824, granted to the said defendants the bakehouse lot as a
mere donation lot, and that the register and receiver at St.
Stephen's were authorized, under the act of Congress of the
8th May, 1822, and other acts of Congress, to direct the manner and mode of surveying and making the location and diyision between these' parties; and having done so, no parol evidence is competent to set aside, to vary, or change the location
so made under their direction and set forth in the patent; which
instruction the court refused to give, and to which the plaintiff
excepts. The plaintiff further requested the court to instruct
the jury, that no survey, plat, or other description of the premises in question, can outweigh or supersede the survey set forth
in the patent under which the plaintiff claims, unless it be
showli by the defendants in a patent, or an instrument of evidence of eqtal grade and authority with a patent; which instruction the court refused to give, and to which the plaintiff
by his -attorney,excepts. To all which charges and refusals to
charge, the plaintiff by their counsel excepts, and prays that
his eiceptions may be sealed and made a part of the record,
which is done accordingly.
"G. BRAGG. [SEAL.]"
The following is the extract from the opinion of the Su-.
preme Court of Alabama, which was declared, in the above
exception, to be the law of the case.
'.'MAYOR AND ALDERMEN OF MOBILE v. THE HEIRS OF FR.

" 1. The power given to the registers and receivers, by the
different acts of Congress, to determine between conflicting and
interfering claims, and to direct the manner of locating and surveying them, applies only to confirmations of imperfect grants
by the former proprietors of the country. These officers have,
therefore, no power to locate and direct the survey of a disputed line, where one'of the parties claims by virtue of a complete and, unconditional grant, as in the case of the donation to
the corporation of Mobile of the hospital and bakehouse lots by
the act of the 26th May, 1824.
"Error to the Circuit Court of Mobile. Ejectment by the defendants in error against the plaintiffs in error.
"The plaintiff below, to sustain his case, introduced in evi-

456

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

dence a patent from the United States to the lessol~s of the
plaintiff, for certain lands in the city of Mobile, and proved that
the premises sued for were within the lines of the patent.
" The plaintiff also read the deposition of James Magoffin,
and certain proceedings of the land office at St. Stephen's, in
relation to the boundary of the lot known as the 'bakehouse
lot,' and other testimony proving the heirship of the parties,
which need not be stated.
"rThe defendants relied on the act of Congress of the 26th
May, 1824, entitled, ' An act granting certain lots of ground to
the corporation of the city of Mobile, and to certain individuals
of said city'; and offered to prove that the lines of the bakehouse lot in the city of Mobile, at the date of the act, comprised
the locus- in quo. The plaintiff objected to this evidence, on
the ground that the transcript of the record attached to the
evidence of James Magoffin, in which the limits of the bakehouse lot had been ascertained by him, was conclusive. The
court sustained the objection and excluded the evidence, and
charged the jury that the heirs of Robert Farmer were entitled
to the property described in their patent; that the corporation
was entitled to the bakehouse lot ; but that the decision of the
officers of the land office at St. Stephen's was conclusive of the
question. To which the defendant excepted, and which he
now assigns for error.
"Campbell, for the plaintiff in error.
"The title of the plaintiff in error arises under the act of
26th May, 1824, by which the bakehouse lot is vested in him.
This act amounts to a complete grant, and any question arising
upon it is a judicial, and not a political question. What lands
are included in the grant is not a question for the land office,
but the court. 6 Cranch, 128; 8 ib. 244, 249; 6 Peters, 741;
12ib. 454; 14 ib. 414; 3 Dall. 456.
" The defendants' title is inferior. The patent bears date in
1837; the terms of renunciation are in preseni, and no evidence of title prior to 1824 is presented.
"The register and receiver at St. Stephen's were not authorized to settle conflicting boundaries. Their power is exhausted
by the settlement of the question of location for the purposes
of the land office. Whether that location is accurate, so far as
third persons who claim by grant previous to the act of location
are involved, is a question which can only be settled by the
parties themselves, or by courts of justice. Instructions and
opinions of the land office, Part [ 1445, §§ 5, 6 ; 6 Peters,
735.
"Phillips, for the defendants in error.
"The title of the heirs of Farmer is derived from the act of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

457

Doe v. The'City of Mobile et al.

1822. Under that act, the certificate. of the register and receiver was made and confirmed by Congress, and the plat of
survey made the title. It is therefore older than that of the
plaintiff in error, which commenced in 1824.
" The effort now is, to show that the north line, as fixed by
the plat of survey confirmed by the act of 1822, was too far to
the north. If, instead of being specifically located, the confirmed
report had described it generally as the lot of Farmer's heirs,
and in 1824 the donation to the plaintiff as the lot known in
Spanish times as the ' king's bakehouse lot,' reserving the rights
of others, under such circumstances, an inquiry ordered by the
common grantor, and his decision thereon as to the boundary,
ought to be conclusive, as a mere declaration of a fact which
always existed; the more especially as the. opposite party submitted to the jurisdiction, examined witnesses, and contested
their rights.
" ORMoND, J. By theact of the 26th May, 1824, the United
States granted to the mayor and aldermen of the city of Mobile
' all right and claim of the United States to the lots known as
the hospital and bakehouse lots, containing about three fourths
of an acre in the city of Mobile.' 1 Land Laws, 398.
"On the 14th of November, 1S37, a patent issued from the
General Land Office in favor of the heirs of Robert Farmer, upon
a confirmation of a claim made by virtue of the act of the 8th
May, 1822 (1 Land Laws, 352); which, among other designated boundaries, calls for the south boundary of the " bakehouse lot ' as one of the boundary lines of the land conveyed
by the patent; and the controversy in this case is, What is the
south boundary of the bakehouse lot ? To establish this
boundary, the plaintiffs rely upou a decision made by the register and receiver at St. Stephen's, which they insisted, and the
court below held, to be conclusive of the'fact.
"The right of these officers to determine this question is attempted to be derived from the various acts of Congress giving
them power'to determine between conflicting and interfering
claims, and also to direct the manner of locating and surveying
the lands the title to which had been confirmed. (See Land
Laws, Part 1, 348, 352, and 455, and other acts, to which these
are supplementary.) There can be no doubt that Congress
may attach to a pure donation such terms as it pleases, and
may invest the subordinate officers of the United States with
power to determine questions of fact, and to ascertain and settle conflicting claims. Of this the different pregmption laws
furnish examples. Whether it has such power in relation to
the confirmation of imperfect titles derived from the former
VOL. IX.

39

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

proprietors of the country, is a question which does not arise
in this case.
"The power conferred on the registers and receivers to decide upon conflicting claims relates only to the confirmation of
imperfect titles derived from the French, British, and Spanish
governments; but the grant of the bakehouse lot to the corporation of Mobile was an unconditional donation of all right and
title of the United States in and to the thing granted, which
immediately passed to the grantee. The previous acts of Congress, .therefore, giving to the receiver and register power to
ascertain and settle the boundaries of conflicting confirmed
claims have no application, and it was not competent for Congress to attach such a condition to it subsequently, and it has
made no such attempt. The description of the thing granted
in the act is sufficient to distinguish it from other lots in the
city, and by the aid of extrinsic testimony its boundaries may
be ascertained. Blake v. Doherty, 5 Wheaton, 359..
"By the treaty, the United States acquired all the title of
the crown of Spain to these lots as public property. The question then is, What was the boundary of these lots in Spanish
times? .This is a question of fact, an d if a controversy should
arise in relation thereto between the corporation and others
claiming 'title to the adjoining lots, it can only be settled by
those tribunals appointed by the constitution and laws for that
purpose, unless the parties interested should voluntarily submit
to some other mode.
"We are relieved in this case from the necessity of considering whether the r~cital in the patent of Farmer's heirs of the
boundary line would be conclusive, because the patent does not
profess to locate the north boundary line other than by calling
for the ' south boundary of the bakehouse lot.' The precise
location must therefcre be ascertained by testimony, showing
where the south line was When in the occupancy of the crown
of Spain. Such as its limits then were, it passed by the treaty
to the United States, and with those limits it was granted to
the corporation.
"It results from this e'xamination that the court erred in determining that the decision of the register was evidence of the
boundary line of the bakehouse lot, and its judgment is therefore reversed, and the cause remanded."
The above was the extract from the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Alabama, which was given in charge to the jury by
the Circuit Court of Mobile County. Under these instructions,
the jury found a verdict for the defendant. The case was then

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

459

Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

carried to the Supreme Court of Alabama, upon the bill of exceptions above recited, and that court affirmed the judgment of
the Circuit Court.
The plaintiff sued out a writ of error, and brought the case
to this court.
It was argued by Hr. Phillips and M1r. Coxe, for the plaintiff in error, and Mllr. Campbell and .4r.Sergeant, for the defendants in error.
111r. Philllps,for the plaintiff in error, made the following
points

-

The title of the plaintiff, originating in the French patent to
Grondel, was presented by the heirs of Robert Farmer, who
claimed to hold under it, to the board of commissioners, and
appears in the report of 1816 without any proof of inhabitation
or cultivation. (3 State Papers, 32.)
This claim is renewed, and appears again in the report of
1820, in the register of claims to lots in the town of Mobile
(Vol. III. p. 398, No. 27), when the proof of inhabitation and
cultivation seems to have been made.
By the act of 1822, Congress confirmed this claim, reserving
to the tribunal organized for that purpose the right "to direct
the manner in which all lands confirmed by this act shall be
located and surveyed, and to decide between the parties in all
conflicting and interfering claims." (Act of 1822,'§ 5.)
The patent which issued upon this claim on the 14th of
November, 1837, recites the deposit in the land office of the
certificate of the register and receiver, with a plat of survey,
under the provisions of the act of 1822, in favor of the heirs
of Farmer, in right of Philip Gonjon de Grondel, being No. 27
in abstract No. 7.
The king's bakehouse lot (boulangerie du roi) had been occupied by the Spanish authorities, under what title does not
appear, and upon the change of government was regarded as
public or unappropriated land.
Cozgress, by the act of 1824, without asserting any title to
the lot, by the most cautious terms vested in the mayor, &c.,
"all their right and claim to the lot known as the bakehouse
lot, containing about three fourths of an acre of land."
Language could scarcely be more guarded; yet they further
expressly provide in the second section, " that nothing in thii
act contained shall be construed to affect the claim, if any such
there be, of any individual, or any body politic or corporate.'"
(See Act of 1824, 1 Land Laws, p. 885.),

460

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

If Congress, therefore, confirmed the plaintiff in his claim by
virtue of the act of 1822, and reserved in the same act the right
to determine its precise admeasurement by a survey thereof, it
cannot be intended that two years afterwards it voluntarily
donated the same lot of land to another. United States v. Arredondo, 6 Pet. 739.
The case presented is one where the common grantor has
made two grants, and conclusively defined the limits of one of
them.
The survey made by the government, and upon which the
patent issued, is a complete one, all the lines being ascertained
and closed, and it is not true, as the Supreme Court of Alabama
has erroneously.supposed, that one of the lines called for "is
the south boundary of the king's bakehouse," on the understanding that this was a well-ascertained line.
The description of the premises in the patent refers to an
actual suivey upon the ground, made by the United States surveyor under the act of Congress, and which was duly deposited
In the General Land Office. The courses and distances and
the length of each line are accurately given, and the lot is
declared to contain "20,495 superficial feet."
It is urged. by defendants, that, as the line running north is
described as "1224 feet, to the south boundary of the bakehouse lot," the course and distance must yield to the line
called for.
The general rule is admitted to be "that the most material
and certain calls shall control those which are less material and
less certain" ; and that therefore "artificial or natural boundaries.control course and distance." Barclay v. Howell's Lessee,
6 Pet. 499. See cases collected, 1 Met. & Perkins's Dig.,
§ 20, p. 474.
But this,rule as to artificial and natural boundaries is not an
inflexible one; but when no mistake could possibly occur in
the "course and distance," the reason of the rule failing, the
rule falls with it. Davis v. Rainsford, 17 Mass. 207; Fulwood v. Graham, I Richardson, 491.
There is no fixed line to the bakehouse lot which -would
raise such a case of contradiction to the "course and distance"
as to raise the question of preference. Neither under the Spanish or American governments had the lot been surveyed, nor is
there any evidence that it had ever been inclosed, or that the
communityhad in any way ever tecognized the location of its
southern boundary.
This government was the absolute owner, as successor to
Spain, of this lot, and held the legal'title (as may be conceded

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

461

Doe v. The City of Mobile et aL

for this argument) to the adjoining lot of Farmer. Having
confirmed the title of Farmer's heirs in 1822, and by its subse4.
quent patent described the precise extent of its confirmation, it
certainly could not have intended, by a pure donation in 1824,
to grant to another a portion of these very premises.
Where a vendor holds two tracts adjoining, and sells a certain
quantity by metes and bounds, though the deed call for one
tract, the purchaser shall hold according to the metes and
bounds. Wallace v. Maxwell, 1 J. J. Marsh. 447; Mundell v.
Perry, 2 Gill & John§. 206.
In this case, the survby having been made by act of Congress to constitute the foundation of a patent, and adopted by
the government for this purpose, the extent of the grant must
be determined by the actual location upon. the ground. Machias v. Whitney, 4 Shep. 343; Lewen v. Smith, 7 Port. 428.
The construction of these boundaries was a question of law
for the court, and not of fact for the jury. Doe v. Paine, 4
Hawks, 64; Cockrell v. McQ.uin, 4. Monr. 63; Hurley v.
Morgan, 1 Dev. & Batt. 425.
A1r. Campbell, for the defendants in error, made the following points.
The lessors of the plaintiff claim, that a parcel of land in the
possession of the defendants is contained within the limits of a
lot surveyed and patented to them by the United States. Two
questions arise on the record: 1. What is the construction of the patent, from the United
States to the lessors of the plaintiff?
2. What is the effect to be given to that patent, as compared
with the act of Congress of May 26, 1824, under which the defendants claim the lot?
1. The line which affords the subject of dispute is otind in
the patent as follows: -,, From a stake, thence north 170 40'
west, 224 feet, to the south boundary of the bakehouse lot;
thence with said south boundary, south 750 15 1 west, 89 feet
6 inches, to the east boundary of Emanuel Street."
The plaintiff contends that these lines are to be ascertained
from the courses and distances specified in the patent, and that
the south boundary of the bakehouse lot is to be sought and
established from those data. We contend that the south boundary of the bakehouse lot is regarded in this patent as a fixed
and well-known line, and that there was no intention on the
part of the government to interfere with it. The controlling
call in the patent is the boundary of the bakehouse lot, and
not the course or distances returned by the surveyor.
39*

462

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

The line of a tract of land may as well be the subject of a
call as a natural object. Carroll v. Norwood, 5 Har. & Johns.
163; 1 Taylor, 163. It is as certain as a tree. Peunington
v. Bordley, 4 Har. & Johns. 457.
Where land is described as running a certain distance by
rheasurement to an ascertained line, though without a visible
boundary., such line will control the admeasurement and determine the extent of the grant. 6 Ala. 738; 8 Ala. 279; Flagg
v. Thurston, 13 Pick. 145; 5 Har. & Johns. 163; 13 Wend.
300.
When the lines or courses of an adjoining patent, being sufficiently established, are called for in a patent or deed, the lines
shall be extended to them without regard to distance. Cherry
v: Slade, 3 Murph. 82.
When a patent calls for the lines of another patent, it must
stop at the first intersection with the latter. Miller v. White,
1 Taylor, 309; 16 Ohio, 428; Gilchrist v. McLochlin, 7 Iredell, 310.
Grants of adjoining land by the State, and occupation under
them, and subsequent conveyances, referring to monuments not
existing at the time of the original grants, are admissible in
evidence for the same purpose. Owen v. Bartholomew, 9 Pick.
520.
In locating lands the following rules are resorted to, and generally in the order stated: - 1st. Natural boundaries ; 2d. Artificial marks; 3d. Adjacent boundaries; 4th. Course and distance. Fulwood v. Graham, 1 Richardson, 491; 3 Gill &
Johns. 142-150.
The decisions of the Supreme Court, in so far as they bear
upon this subject, are in coincidence with them. 6 Wheat.
582; 7 Wheat. 7; 6 Peters, 49S; 3 Peters, 96.
2. We contend that the United States, having made an absolute grant to the defendants of the bakehouse lot, all questions relative to the extent and boundaries of that lot were
placed beyond the control of the land office. The government
may grant lands twice. The effect of such grants must be determined, not by the officers of the land office, but the parties
claiming under them may assert their rights in courts of justice,
and claim their judgments upon them.
The boundaries of the bakehouse lot were ascertainable by
the partk to the grant. If they assumed to control lands without the proper boundaries, their grant did not protect them.
What land was included within the bakehouse lot was a question for a jury when&ver a controversy arose concerning them,
which became the subject of a suit in court.

JANUARY TERM,

1850.

463

Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.
The officers of the land office could, not inquire whether the
defendants were intruders or otherwise. Fletcher v. Peck, 6
Cranch, 87; 8 Cranch, 244; 6 Peters, 741; 12 Peters, 454;
14 Peters, 414; 2 Howard, 319; 7 Howard, 586.
M11r. Sergeant, for the defendants in error, made the foll6wing points.
1. That there is no error in the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Alabama.
For this general position, the points and authorities of' the
defendants' counsel below, and the Supreme Court of Alabama,
are here adopted, and submitted to the court as sound and
correct.
2. That there is no question in the case cognizable by this
honorable court.
It is true that both parties claimed under acts of Congress,
and that the plaintiff claimed under a patent from the United
States, and alleged that he had a right which derived from the
exercise of a United States authority. But it is also true,
that, in point of law, neither of these claims was necessarily
or at all involved in the case, or in its decision.
The plaintiff's patent calls for the "south boundary of the
bakehouse lot" as its boundary on the north, and " thence
with said south boundary"; so that one line was common to
both lots, and was the boundary line between them. Neither
could pass beyond it. There was, therefore, no -interference
between; them. If either of them claimed beyond it, it must he
under some other right. It could not be under the right derived friom the United States, being inconsistent with its express terms, and contradictory to them.
This line was an established and existing line, as the line of
the bakehouse lot, before any of the grants. It is recognized
by the act of 6th May, 1824, which graunts the "bakehouse
lot ' as a known and defined thing. The plaintiff's patent recngnizes it as a fixed and established line. 'It is also recognized
in the plaintiff's original French grant, dbted in 1757. This
lot, thus known and recognized, was granted by the United
States to the city of Mobile in 1824. All grants afterwards
made are of course subject to it. Besides, the pateht of the
plaintiff is only a release, and 'that release expressly subject to
prior claims. The certificate of the register and receiver, too,
expressly recognizes the south boundary of the bakehouse lot
as an existing known boundary.
The question, then, is a mere question of fact, namely,
Where was arid is the south boundarv of the bakehouse lot ?

464

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

If it should be alleged that this question was before the register and receiver, and decided by them under an authority derived from the United States, there are several answers:
1. That the question was never submitted to them.
2. That they never assumed jurisdiction of any such question, for pretended to decide it.
3. That there was no subsisting case upon which they had
any authority to act.
The case, therefore, was a mere question of boundary. That
was a question for the jury, and the jury have. decided it.
Kennedy's Executors v. Hunt, 7 How. 586, 593; McDonogh
v. Millaudon, 3 How. 693; Mackay v. Dillon, 4 How. 447.
JUr. Coxe, for the plaintiffs in error, made the following
points.
The case depends upon the true construction of the act of
26th May, 1824. This is to be gathered from the language
of the statute and the colistruction given to it by this court.
1 Land Laws, 398. The first section grants all the right
and claim of the United States to the lots known as the hospital and bakehouse lots, containing about three fourths of an
acre of land, &c. ; tlso, the right and claim of the United States
to all thelots not sold or confirmed to individuals either by
this or any former act, and to which no equitable title exists in
favor of any individual under this or any other act, &c., to the
city of Mobile. The second section grants the right of the
United States in certain lots whereon improvements have been
made.
Upon this statute the defendant rests his entire claim.
The tilaintiff's claim is founded upon a title originating under the former government, which had been submitted to the
commissioners authorized to examine it, and confirmed by the
act of May 8, 1822, (1 Land Laws, 348,) and finally evidenced
by the patent, 14th November, 1837.
A comparison of these acts can. leave little doubt upon this
question. In the act of 1822, certain titles derived from French,
British, and Spanish authorities are in- terms confirmed. These
titles had originated in the public acts of the functionaries of
these governments; they in granting, and the individuals in
accepting them, had acted in good faith, believing, without any
thing to awaken doubt, that the existing governments possessed
perfect titles. Such titles, therefore, commended themselves
to the justice, equity, and honor of the nation, and these claims
had been recognized and confirmed by repeated acts of legislation. 14 Peters, 365, 377, &c.
In the arrangement made

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

465

Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

with Georgia, they had been to a certain extent secured, and
Congress, in carrying out the provisions of that arrangement,
had even exceeded in liberality the obligation which it had assumed. While, therefore, these inchoate or imperfect titles
were confirmed, the limitation was imposed that they were to
be regarded as confirmations, not new grants.
The fifth section contains a most important provision. It
enacts that the registers and receivers of the land offices shall
have the same powers to direct the manner in which all lands
confirmed by this act shall be located and surveyed, and also
to decide between all conflicting and interfering claims, as are
given by another act passed the same day, although it appears
later in the statute book. 3 Statutes at Large, 707, c. 128; 1
Laud Laws, 352, c. 273; see also § 4.
It will be observed, that the words of confirmation are in the
present tense; but that the precise location of the land the
title to which is confirmed is subsequently to be made by the
officers of the government. When thus made, the particular
bounds must be carried back to the date of the confirming act.
It must also be remembered, that, so far as regards this case, the
only party with whom any conflict could arise as to the boundaries of the land was the United States, under whom, by a
subsequent act, defendants claim title. The authority of Congress, therefore, to prescribe the officers whose decision was to
fix the lines and extent of these confirmations, while suflciently clear as to individuals holding conflicting claims, is beyond
all possible doubt as regards the government itself. The patent shows that this authority was exercised, and the United
States admit it to have been properly exercised.
In this view of the case, then, it would seem clear that, under and by virtue of the act of 1822, the plaintiffs were presently confirmed, as against the United States, to the property
claimed by them, to the full extent of the lines subsequently to
be ascertained by the register and receiver, and included in
their patent; and that..this title, thus defined, could not be
ques ioned or controverted by any party subsequently deriving
title from the United States. This is the first proposition
maintained on behalf of the plaintiff in error.
If this proposition needs corroboration, it is apprehended it
will be found in the language of the act of 26th May, 1824,
two years subsequently.
1. At that date, what title had the United States to the premises in question, which could be granted?
2. What do the United States profess to grant?
It has already been shown, that two years before this period

466

SUPREME

COURT.

Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.
Congress had, in the most solemn and precise manner, confirmed the plaintiffs title, and had intrusted to the officers of
the government the power to locate the land and establish its
boundaries, so far as either the government itself, or individuals
The patent
claiming under a similar title, were concerned.
contains the most conclusive evidence that these officers executed the authority thus delegated, and that it received the
sanction of the government.
Under this state of circumstances, Congress passed the act
of May 26, 1824. (1 Land Laws, 393.) It grants to the city
of Mobile the right and claim of the United States to two certain lots by name, estimated to coitain about three fourths f
an acre, but without any designation of the boundaries or extent of either. No official survey or location of these lots has
ever been made; no boundaries have ever been officially ascertained; no action of any public functionary has been produced;
no action by the land office has been had; no patent has been
issued. Independently of the guarded language employed in
the first section, and which, it may be argued, extends only to
the general grant of "all the lots" there mentioned, the second
section contains a distinct proviso, "that nothing in this act
contained shall be construed to affect the claim or claims, if
any such there be, of any individual or individuals, or of any
body politic or corporate."
In Lessee of Pollard's Heirs v. Kibbe, 14 Peters, 361, this
court says, in speaking of this act of 1824, "It being a private
act for the benefit of the city of Mobile and certain individuals,
it is fair to presume it was passed with reference to the particular claims of such individuals, and the situation of the land
embraced within the law at the time it was passed."
"If the
second section applies to the lot in question at all, it is-excepted
out of the first section." (p. 362.) "It is not to be presumed
that Congress would grant, or even simply release, the right of
the United States to land confessedly before granted; this
would be only holding out inducements to litigation."1 (p. 366.)
This case seems, then, definitively to settle these points ;that the grant to Mobile was a mere donation by the United
States of its right and title, whatever that might be, to the city
of MobiPe; that it operates no injury whatever to any claim or
title, whether those comprehended in the second section; or,
still more obviously, such as h~d been previouslr recognized
and confirmed : and that no construction ought to be given to
the act which would make it enure in any way to the detriment of any other claim of any individual.
The city of Mobile, the recipient of this bounty, now as-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

sumes, under color of this statute, a higher position than the
United States have ever assumed in regard to this property; arrogates the right to fix, according to her own will, the extent
of the property gratuitously bestowed upon her, when her pretensions come in conflict with grants, the equity, at least, of
which the United States have ever recognized; disclaims the
authority reposed in intelligent public officers, to whom the
government had previously delegated the authority to decide
upon the extent of the confirmations it had made; and repudiates the action of the Land Office and the patent emanating
from the President.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
The original action in this case was ejectment for part of a
lot of land situated in the city of Mobile.
The plaintiff contended, that the piece in controversy belonged to the tract which he claimed in the preceding case
against Eslava, and to which he had the evidence of title
shown there under a French grant in 1757, confirmed by an
act of Congress of May 8, 1822, and a quitclaim patent for it
issuing November 14, 1837. On the contrary, the city contended, that this piece belonged to what was termed the bakehouse lot, and into which it entered in 1824, under a grant
from the United States by an act of Congress at that time, conveying all their title to it (4 Statutes at Large, 67); and that
this bakehouse lot, having been known by that name for near
a century, and used by the Spanish authorities for baking bread
for their troops, was'a public lot at the period of the cession of
the country in 1819, and hence passed to the United States,
and a complete title to it was made from them to the city by
the grant before named. Since the trial in the State court, we
have, in the preceding case of Farmer's Heirs v. Eslava, so held
as to show that those heirs are not entitled to any portion of
the lot which is here in controversy, and have thus rendered a
decision in this case not very important, excett as regards costs.
But as the judgment there is not betweer' the same parties
as here, it may not in point of law settle this case, and we must
therefore dispose of it on its own facts and merits.
For tile purpose of the trial in the State court, whose judgment this writ of error is brought to reverse, it seemed in the
end to be conceded that the plaintiff might have a just claim,
so far as respects the city, to the extent of the true oundaries
of the lot confirmed to him, and that the defendants might
have a like claim to all which really was embraced in the
bakehouse lot. But the plaintiff maintained that the southern

468

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

boundary of this last lot did not extend so far south as the defendants contended. And if it should extend in that direction
no further than the plaintiff insists, the piece of land in controversy here would clearly belong to him.
Looking at the case first in this aspect, the trial in the State
court was ultimately only a.trial of the true boundary of the
south side of the bakehouse lot; and any instructions by the
court which are there excepted to on the evidence, whether
parol proof could control written, or monuments restrain distances, &c., would not be revisable here under the twenty-fifth
section of the Judiciary Act. They would depend on common
law principles, or the peculiar laws of the State, and not on
any acts of Congress, or doings of our public officers.
Butthe plaintiff insisted, that, when a conflict began concerning this line and the title to this piece of land, the register
and receiver heard the parties, and being by the two acts of
Congress of May 8, 1822 (4 Statutes at Large, 700, 708),
authorized to decide on such claims, they settled finally, then
and for ever, both the title and location, including the true
southern boundary of the bakehouse lot.
The State court does not seem to have concurred in this view,
but allowed the parties before them and the jury to examine
into -the true line of the bakehouse lot on general principles;
and it was settled against the plaintiff, so as to cover by that
lot what the defendants occupied. This course by the court
certainly overruled the right set up under the supposed decision
of those public officers of the United States concerning the title,
and hence, so far as regards that .ruling, the judgment is subject to our revision.
In Eslava's case, however, we have just. decided that those
public officers were not empowered to settle conflicting titles,
but only conflicting locations ; and if they made a location here
of the lot claimed by Farmer's heirs, so as to embrace this strip
or piece of land, which is not improbable, it would leave the
title unsettled, and not thus vested in the plaintiff. Or if they
went further and had a right to go further, and decided that
the title in this piece was in Farmer's heirs, we think it by no
means certain that the description in the patent, which is the
whole evidence in the record before us as to their decision,
would show this result with such clearness as to justify following it.
The 'northern line of Farmer's lot is still in their survey
described as " the south boundary of the bakehouse lot." To
be sure, if from the preceding corner you go,' as directed, 224
feet, this strip would be included in Farmer's lot. But this

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

469

Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

distance, if overreaching the true south boundary of the bakehouse lot, must yield to that as a monument, as was the instruction of the court, and as the jury have found in this
instance it did. Preston v. Bowmar, 6 Wheat. 582; 6 Peters,
449; 7 Peters, 219; 13 Pick. 145; 13 Wendell, 300.
Had this line on the north been described by the local officers, not only by saying it bordered on the south boundary of
the hakehouse lot, but by specifying where that boundary was,
by stakes and stones, or trees, or some other monument, the legal
difficulty and doubt might have been overcome, in fixing with
sufficient certainty, that they intended to indicate the exact
place of that line, and that it was where the plaintiff contends.
But they did not do so, and beside these objections to their
want of power to settle finally the conflicting claims as to title
in any case as specified in Barbarie et al. v. Eslava et al., it is
very obvious that it was not meant to be extended to any conflict growing out of a title like that of the defendants. From
the nature of the subject-matter and language of the acts of
Congress, their authority embraced only those conflicts arising
in cases of imperfect grants made before the cession of the
country, and .not a perfect grant like this to Mobile, from the
United States alone, made since the cession.
The words of the first act give power to those officers to
decide, even on locations, only as to "all lands confirmed by
this act's (§ 5, ch. 122). But the bakehouse grant was not
one of those "confirmed" by that act, and was not granted to
the defendants till near two years after.
The fourth section of the other law (ch. 128), which is also
to regulate their powers as to the location and survey of conflicting claims, specially excepts cases of perfect title, and includes only such as are "confirmed," &c., manifestly not embracing subsequent grants, like those of the United States to
Mobile, never confirmed by commissioners, and hence to be
adjudicated on, when in controversy, only by the proper judicial tribunals. 14 Peters, 414; 6 Peters, 741.
Such a title, too, is one of the highest character, and one
which Congress by legislative grant, when owning thb soil, is
fully competent to give; and which needs not the aid of anv
patent. 6 Cranch, 128; Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 454;
United States v. King, 3 Howard, 773; United States v. Gratiot,
14 Peters, 529.
Hence the State court acted properly in considering the question of title still open, and balanced by the evidence, except as
to the. place of the true boundary on the south side of the bake40
vOL. Ix.

470

SUPREME COURT.
Doe v. The City of Mobile et al.

house lot. That boundary it tried, and it was triable without
any appeal to us.
It is not for us to interfere with its rulings or opinions on
points belonging to the cognizance of State tribunals, though
on the main controversy it might not be very difficult to decide,
whether it erred or not, considering that the original patent
in 1757 of Farmer's claim was on one side to be "of the depth
which remains of the establishment of the king's bakehouse" ;
that the next conveyance- by the patentee to Guichandene, in
the same year, uses like words for thatboundary, being "with
the depth which remains after that of the king's bakehouse,"
and that this boundary is similarly described in all the subsequent conveyances; and considering that the bakehouse lot
should therefore be first satisfied, and distances in deeds or
patents yield to monuments; and considering that the line
adopted was by Much evidence shown to be the ancient line
on that side by the ancient fence, and thus, too, giving to it a
uniform instead of irregular shape, and not taking from it, as
this claim does, near one third of its supposed size.
Finally, on what is properly before us under the twenty-fifth
section, we think that the defendants, as grantees from Congress of the "hospital and bakehouse lots," (Act of 26th May,
1824, in 4 Statutes at Large, 67,) should not be disturbed in
their occupation of the latter lot, with the limits settled to be
the 'true ones in the State court.
Judgment affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it .is
now
here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the. judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

