JANUARY TERM, 1850.

47$

Atkinson's Lessee v. Cummins.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,

affirmed, with costs.

LESSEE or IsAAc ATxiNSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN CVMUIuNS.

The rule of evidence, as stated by Tindal, Chief Justice, in the casb of Miller v.
Travers (8 Bingh. 244), sanctioned by this court, viz.: -" In all cases where a
difficulty arises in applying the words of a will or deed to tho subject-matter of

the devise or grant, the difficulty or ambiguity which is introduced by the admission of extrinsic evidence may be rebutted or removed by the production of further evidence upon the same subject calculated to explain what was the estate or

subject-matter really intended to be granted or devised."
Therefore, where the sheriff sold a tract of land under afrifacias, and made a deed"
of it to the purchaser, and it appeared afterwards that the debtor had two tracts
near to, but separated from each other, nd the sheriff'g deed described one tract
accurately except that it called to bound upon two parcels of land which were actually conttgutus to the other tract, and the purchaser took possession of that to
which the description was mainly applicable, and retained possession for neatly
twenty years, parol evidence was admissible to show that the levy and sale applied
to one tract only, and not both.

THIS case came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
It was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit Court
by Isaac Atkinson, a citizen of Ohio, to recover a tract of land
in Derry township, Westmoreland County and State of Pennsylvania.
The whole case was stated in the bill of exceptions, which
it is only necessary to recite.
Copy of Bill of Exceptions.
"In the Circuit Court of the United States, Western District
of Pennsylvania.
"RxcHARD SMITri, Lessee of IsAAC "ATKINSN, a Citizen of the
State of Ohio, v. WILLIAM STIL S, with Notice to JoHN CumMINS, a Citizen of the State of Pennsylvania."November Term, A. D. 1846.- Action of Ejectment.
"Be it remembered, that at the November term, A. D. 1846,
of the said court, before the Honorable R. C. Grier, an associate
justice of the Supreme Cotirt of the United States, and the

480

SUPREME

COURT.

Atkinson's Lessee v. Cummins.

Honorable Thomas Irwin, judge of the said District Court,
judges holding said court, at Pittsburg, in said district, the parties in this cause were at issue upon a plea of not guilty in
manner and form as the said plaintiff hath thereof in his decla*ration complained, by said John Cummins, who' had entered
into and filed in said cause the common consent rule, confessing lease, entry, and ouster, &c., as appears of record in the
same ; and therefore a jury was called, and regularly and legally impahelled and sworn to try said issue; and on the trial
thereof, the plaintiff, to prove the same on his part, gave in
evidence the record of a judgment in the Court of Common
Pleas of Westmoreland County, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in favor of Thomas Pumroy, for the use of John Sloan,
junior, against George Pumroy, on the 5th day of Sept6mber,
1820, for the sum of four hundred dollars debt and costs; also
a writ 6f'fieri facias, issued on said judgment from said court,
dated December 2d, 1820, directed to t.,e sheriff of said Westmoreland Codnty, a levy by John Klingensmith, sheriff of said
county, of said writ, on all the right, title, and claim of Gedrge
Pumroy, of, in, and to a certain tract of land, situate in Derry
township, adjoining land of James Henry, Nathianiel Doty,
William Reed, William Bell, Robert Thompson, James Wilson,
and others, containing 400 acres, more or less, about sixty acres
cleared, thirty acres 9 f which is in meadow, having thereon
erected a grist-mill, sliingle-roofed log dwelling-house, shingleroofed log barn, with an apple-orchard thereon growing; and
also of such further proceedings in tfe premises as showed a
legal .and valid sale by said sheriff of the premises so levied
upon, as aforesaid, on the 18th of February, A. D. 1822, to one
John Rhey, for the sun of fourteen hundred and one dollars;
also a deed from said sheiff to said Rhey, for said premises so
leviedi upon and sold as afo'esaid, duly acknowledged in said
court on the 9th day of April, 1822 ; and also evidence that, at
the time of said le; y and sale, said George Pnmroy was the
owner of said premises described in the plaintiff's declaration,
and sought to be recorded in this action; also a conveyance iu
fee of said premises by said John Rhey, on the 16th of June,
A. D. 1841, to said Isaac Atkinson. And the plaintiff, on said
trial, for the purpose of exhibiting and defining what he claimed
as embraced in said levy, sale, and conveyance to said Atkinson, as aforesaid, gave in evidence the plot or draft marked on
the outside 'A, November 18th, 1846,' hereto attached, and herewith incorporated -is a part of this bill, and claimed before said
court an'd jury that said levy, sale, and conveyance to said
Rhey embraced and contained the said land represented in said

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

481

Atkinson's Lessee v. Cummins.

plot or draft by the black lines, embracing 3261 acres, ahd
also 1581 acres, and gave evidence that William Bell and William Reed, two of the persons named as adjoiners of the said
158t acres, as indicated on said plot or draft, are not adjoiners
of any part of the 3261 acres. The defendani, on the contrary
thereof, insisted and claimed that said levy and sale did not
embrace or contain any part of the land described in the plaiditiff's declaration (which is the same marked 158. acres on the
plot), but, on the other hand, was limited and confined to that
marked on the said plot 3261 acres, &c.; and thereupon, after
giving evidence to show that the improvements on the said
last-mentioned tract of 3261 acres, &c., corresponded with the
description in the levy, that the tract in dispute contained upwards of one hundred acres Of cleared land, with an apple-orchard, a shingle-roofed log-dwelling-house and barn and stable
thereon erected, and thtt the said two tracts were entirely'distinct, separate, and disconnected from each other, in order further to prove that said levy and sale did not embrace or contain
any part of the land described in plaintiff's declaration, but, on
the other hand, was limited and confined to that marked on the
plot 3261, acres, called John Klingensmith, Esq., late shefiff of
Westmoreland County, by whom the levy and sale in the case
were made, and proposed to prove by him as follows: -That
he went to the land of George Pumroy, in 1821, to make the
said levy; that the said George Pumroy furnished him with the
adjoiners of both tracts ; that, upon inquiring of said Pumroy
whether the description furnished embraced more than one
tract, and learning from him that it covered both, he objected.
to making the levy in that way; .that the said Pumroy acquiescing in his decision, he then struck off, as well as he ebuld,
the names given to him as adjoiners exclusively of the tract in
dispute in this action, and supposed that he hadcstricken them
all off'; that on the inquisition held upon the levy, indorsea on*
the ft. fa., the land in dispute was not'submitted to the jury,
or acted upon by them, but only what was called the mill tract,
or, in other words, that upon which the purchaser entered after
the sale ; that at the sale, upon a representation made to him,
by some of the bystanders that there was an ambiguity. ih the
description of the land which rendered it uncertain whether one.
or both tracts were included within it, he stated, in the presence and hearing of John Rhey, that he was selling only the
mill tract, and that bidders milst govern themselves accordingly; that he made the same representation to Paul Morrow, by
whom the property was purchased, as the agent and for the use
of said Rhey ; that, after the said sale, he was directed to exVOL. IX.
41

482

SUPREME COURT.
Atkinson's Lessee v. Cummins.

ecute the deed to said Rhey, which was accordingly done; that,
at the time of the execution thereof, it was again represented,
and perfectly understood by both parties, that the property conveyed in said deed embraced only the mill tract, and not the
land in dispute ; and that at a subsequent period, not very remote from the time of the said sale, upon a representation to
him by some of the neighbours that the said Rhey was asserting
his claim to the property in dispute under said sale, he took occasion to inquire of him whether the fact was as represented,
to which the said Rhey replied that he might have said so in a
jocular manner, but that he never intended to claim both tracts,
for that he knew that he never bought both tracts, and that he
never paid for both tracts, and to claim them now (then) would
be too much like putting his hand into another man's pocket
and ribbing, him.
. "To the admission of which testimony of said Klingensmith,
proposed to be given by the defendant as aforesaid, the plaintiff
objected, and insisted that the same could not be legally admitted for the purpose aforesaid.
"Whereupon said court did overrule said objection, and admitted said testimony of said Klingensmith so proposed to be
given as aforesaid, and the said plaintiff"here in court, and during the trial of said cause, excepts to the judgment, opinion,
and determination of said court in admitting said testimony;
and as the facts aforesaid do not appear of record, the said
plaintiff prays .that this bill of exceptions may be certified,
signed, and sealed by the judges of said court, that the same
may become part and parcel of the record in said case. By the
court allowed and ordered to be lodged on file.

"R. 0. GRI~lt,
THo

[,.. S.]

s lawiN. [L. s.]"

The jury found a verdict for the defendant.
Upon a writ of error sued out by the plaintiff, the case was
brought up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Cooper, for the plaintiff in error, and
Mr. Wylie, for the defendant in error.
Mr. Cooper made the following points.
The court erred in admitting the testimony of John Klingensmith to contradict, vary, and limit the description of the bond
as.recited in the levy, fier~facias, venditioni eaponas,and deed
of the sheriff to the purchaser.
I. The levy, fieri facias, venditioni exponas; sheriffs deed,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

483

Atkinsons Lessee v. Cummins.

and acknowledgment thereof, are records, and parol evidence is
not admissible to contradict, vary, or limit the description of
the premises contained in them. The extent of the grant is
only to be ascertained by levy, fieri facias, venditioui exponas,
and deed. Sergeant v. Ford, 21 Watts & Serg. 126; Woodward v. Harbin, 1 Alabama, 104; Hobson v. Doe, 4 Blackf.
4S7; Hellman v. Hellman, 4 Rawle, 448, 449; 'Patterson v.
Forry, 2 Barr, (Pa.) 456; McClelland v. Slingluff, 7 Watts &
Serg. 134; Aulenbaugh v. Umbehauer, 8 Watts, 50 ; Beeson v.
Hutchison, 4 Watts, 442-444; Streaper v. Fisher, 1 Rawle,
155; Grubb v. Guilford, 4 Watts, 223; Haynes v. Small, 9
Shepley, (Me.) 14; Lawson v. Main, 4 Pike, (Ark.) 184.
II. Natural monuments, clearly visible, such as a road, a
stream, adjoining farms or lands, prevail over other marks, such
as quantity, improvements, &c., and even over courses and distances. Cox v. Couch, 8 Barr, (Pa.) 147; Howe v. Bass, 2
Mass. 380-384; Pernam v. Wead, 6 Mass. 131-133;. Wendell v. Jackson, 8 Wendell, 185-190; Jackson v. Moore, 6
Cowen, 706; Newton v. Pigon's Lessee, 7 'Whart6n, 7, 11,
Cronister v. Cronister, 1 Watts & Serg. 442; Hare v. Harris,
14 Ohio, 529.
III. George Pumroy, and Cummins, the defendant, who
claims under him, being piivy in estate, were in default in
permitting the sheriff's deed to be acknowledged. Having
stood by in silence when they should have spoken out, they
are estopped from alleging that all that was levied upon and conveyed to the plaintiff by deed was not sold. This is also so in
relation to the sheriff. Zeigler v. Houtz, 1 Watts & Serg.
540; Sergeant v.Ford, 2 ib. 127; Streaper v. Fisher, 1 Rawle,
161; Thompson v. Phillips, 1 Baldwin, 271.
IV. In cases of ambiguous or doubtful description, the court
adopts the construction most liberal to the purchaser. This is
true of purchasers at judicial as well as other sales. 1 Sheppard's Touchstone, 82, 83; Jackson v. Blodget, 16 Johns. 178,
179; Jackson v. Gardner, 8 ib. 394-406; Doe v. Dixon,
9 East, 15, 16; Palmer's Case, 2 Coke, 74; Inman v. Kutz,
10 Watts, 90- 100; Strein v. Zeigler, 1 Watts & Serg. 259,
260.
.41r. Trylie, for. the defendant in error, made the following
points.
1. In Pennsylvania there is no court of equity, but ecuitable
principles are applied, under the direction of the courts of law,
in the same manner as legal principles. Kuhn v. Nixon, 15
Serg. & Rawle, 118; Hawthorn v. Bronson, 16 ib. 278 ; Torr's

484

SUPREME

COURT.

Atkinson§ Lessee v. Cummins.

Estate, 2 Rawle, 252. Ejectment is a substitute for a bill in
equity, and may be defeated by the same considerations which
would defeat a bill for a specific performance in a court of
equity. Pennock v. Freeman, 1 Watts, 408.
2. Equity will not permit a party to enforce compliance with
a deed or contract, when such compliance would work a fraud
on the other party. Woollam v. Hearn, 7 Yes. 211; 2 Atk. 98;
Story's Eq., § 769. And parol evidence is admissible to show
the fraudulent 'purpose. Bowman v. Bittenbender, 4 Watts,
290; Oliver v. Oliver, 4 Rawle, 141; Hultz v. Wright, 16
Serg. & Rawle, 345; Mitchell v. Kintzer, 5 Barr, 216; Greenl.
on Evi, '§ 248. And it is an admitted principle, that courts of
law have concurrent jurisdiction with courts of chancery, in
cases of fraud. Gregg v. Lessee of Sayre, 8 Peters, 244.
3. The evidence was for the purpose of applying the deed
to its proper subject, and therefore competent. 1 Greepl. on
Ev., § 301.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The single question in this case arises on a bill of exceptions
to the adnission of certain testimony. In order to judge of its
correctness, we must ascertain what was the matter in dispute
before the jury at the time the testimony was offered and received.
The action was ejectment for a tract of land containing 15S.acres. In 1822, George Pumroy was owner of this tract, and
also of another of 326J acres, lying n-ar to it, but not adjoining.
A judgment had been obtained against Pumroy for the sum of
$ 400, and an execution issued, on which the sheriff returned
that he had levied on "a certain tract of land, situate in Derry
township, adjoining lands of James Henry" (and a number of
others), "containing 400 acres, more or less, of which 60 acres
were cleared land, and 30 acres of meadow, and on which were
erected a grist-mill, dwelling-house," &c., &c. A sale was
made by the sheriff under a writ of venditioni exponas, and a
deed delivered by him to John Rhey, legally conveying to him
the tract of land as described in the levy. Under this deed,
Rhey took possession of the tract of 326 acres, on which the
grist-mill was erected, and has held it from the year 1822
till the present time. In 1841, he made a conveyance to Isaac
Atkinson, the piaintiffs lessor, a citizen of Ohio, in whose name
the present ejectment was instituted for the other tract, owned
by Pumroy, of 158 acres, and now in the possession of the
defendant, Cummins.
The only evidence offered in support of the plaintilPs claim

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

485

Atkinsons Lessee v. Cummins.

was, that two of the adjoining tracts, called for as boundaries in
his deed, did not adjoin the mill tract of 3261 acres, but were
contiguous to, and adjoined the tract of 158J acres. It was
admitted, that all the other parts of the description correctly
applied to the larger tract, but it was contended that, if this
portion of the description applied only to the other, the levy
and deed for this reason included both.
The defendant, on the contrary, insisted that the levy and sale
did not embrace any part of the land in dispute, and gave evidence to prove that it was a distinct and separate tract of land,
having'a house, barn, orchard, and 100 acres of cleared land,
not occupied or used in connection with the larger or mill tract.
They contended, also, that the deed called for but one tract of
land, which was well described, except in this one particular,
which was evidently an ambiguity, caused by a mistake of the
sheriff in making his levy.
The defendant might, perhaps, have safely rested his case on
the evidence as it now stood, but, in order to remove all possible doubt, he offered to prove by the sheriff "how the mistake
in the description occurred; and that the purchaser and other
bidders at the sale had remarked this ambiguity in the description, and were informed how it happened, and were perfectly
aware that but one tract was levied on and offered for sale,
called the mill tract. That Rhey, the purchaser, was fully
aware of it, and accordingly claimed and took possession of the
mill tract only; that the sheriff, having afterwards heard a report that Rhey was asserting a claim to the property indispute,
took occasion to inquire of him if it was true ; and that Rhey
replied, ' that if he had said so it was only in jest; that he had
bought and paid for one tract only, and to claim them both
would be too much like putting his hand in his neighbour's
pocket and robbing him.'"1
To the reception of this testimony the plaintiff's counsel objected, and the admission of it by the court forms the subject
of the bill of exceptions now under consideration.
It is contended that this testimony ought not to have been
received, because "the levy, fieri facias, venditioni evponas,
sheriff's deed, &c., are records, and parol evidence is not admissible to contradict, vary, or limit the description of the premises
contained in them."
This proposition is undoubtedly true. But it assumes the
very fact in dispute, and on which the jury were about to pass,
on parol proof given by both parties. It is true that, if a sheriff
levies on a whole tract of land, and describes it accurately in
his levy and deed, parol testimony cannot be received to show
41 *

486

.

SUPREME

COURT.

Atkinson's Lessee v. Cummins.

that he intended to sell less than his deed describes, ol that he
excepted a part of the premises at the time of the sale.
But that is not the case before us. The testimony offered
is not to contradict the levy and deed, but to explain and confirm them. The plaintiff's testimony had shown that there
was a latent ambiguity on the face of his deed. It purported
to convey a single tract of land ; it described one tract completely, with a single exception which applied to another. It
might be void for uncertainty, if its description equally applied
to two tracts, while it clearly purported to convey but one. It
might convey one, and the part of the description which did
not apply to that would be rejected as falsa demonstratio, or
misdescription. Or it might possibly be intended to convey
both ; but in the present case the latter supposition had hardly
a shade of probability to support it.
It would be of little profit to notice the infinite variety of
cases on this subject, or to seek for one precisely in point with
the present. The general rule is well stated by Tindal, Chief
Justice, in the case o" Miller v. Travers (8 Bingh. 244), that
"in all cases where a difficulty arises in applying the words of
a will or.deed to the subject-matter of the devise or grant, the
difficulty or ambiguity which is introduced by the admission
of extrinsic evidence may be rebutted or removed by the production of further evidence upon the same subject calculated to
explain what was the estate or subject-matter really intended
to be granted or devised."
The deed in this case called for but a single tract of land,
the purchaser had himself taken possession and held up to certain boundaries for near twenty years, and had thus by his acts
given his own construction of an ambiguity- in his deed which
he now showed by extrinsic evidence to exist. The evidence
offered tended to confirm what appeared on the face of the
deed; that but one tiact was sold ; that the practical location
of his grant made by the purchaser was correct; that he had
not acted under a mistake bf his just rights, but had a due appreciation of the merits of the claim now set up to the land in
question, This testimony may have been superfluous and unnecessary, but was not irrelevant or illegal. It' did not contradict the record or deed under which the plaintiff .claimed, but
showed the gross injustice of the claim now attempted to be
established under cover of an ambiguity in their terms.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
, Order.
This cause came on to be heardon the transcript of the rec-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

487

The United States v. Brown.

ord from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this coupt, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

OsBAAni

B. BRowN, PLA NTIPF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. OBADI.AH B. BRowN."
An act of Congress passed on the 2d of July, 1836 (5 Stat. at Large, 83), directs
that, where any money has been paid out of the funds of the Post-Office Depart.
ment to any person in consequence of fraudulent representations or by mistake,
collusion, or misconduct of any officer or clrk of the Department, the Postmaster- General shall institute azsnit to recover it back.
Where the person who was the chief clerk add treasurer o' the Post-Office Department transferred to the Department a deposit which io had made, in his own
name, in a bank which had become broken, and in consequence of such transfer
received the full value of the deposit from the Department, it was a easwewhich
fell within the statute; and the adjudication of the Postmaster-General, ordering
*he person to be credited upon the books and to receive the money, cannot be considered a final adjudication, closing the transaction from judicial scrutiny.
The rules and regulations of the Post-Office Department placed the whole subject of
finance under ihe charge of the chief clerk. It was within the range of his official
duties, therefore, to superintend all matters relating to finance, and he was not
entitled to charge a commission for negotiating loans for the use of the Department.

THESSE two cases were merely branches of a single case
which was tried in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of
Washington.
The suit was instituted by the United States against Obadiah
B. Brown, upon an account, two items only of which were disputed. Upon one of these items the instruction of the court to
the jury was unfavorable to Brown, and he took a bill of exceptions to it. This constituted the first case. .Upon the second item, the instruction was- unfavorable to the United States,
and they excepted.
The account upon which the suit was brought was.as follows, viz. -

