SUPREME COURT.

560

The United States v.- Marigold.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS, V. PETER MARIGOLD.
On the 3d of March, 1825, Congress passed an act (4 Stat: at Large, 121) providing
for the punishment of persons who shall bring into the United States, with intent
to pass, any false, forged, or counterfeited coin; and also for the punishment of
persons who shall pass, utter, publish, or sell any such false, forged, or counter.
feited coin.
Congress had -theconstitutional power to pass this law. Under the power to regulate commerce, Congress can exclude, either partially or wholly, any subject falling within the legitimate sphere of commercial regulation; and under the power to
coin money and regulate the value thereof, Congress can protect the creature and
object of that power.
The doctrines asserted by this court in the case of Fox v. The State of Ohio (5 How.
ard, 433) are not inconsistent with that now maintained.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern-District of 1\ew York, upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judgies thereof. -,
The record in the case is so very short, that the whole of it
may. be inserted.
CUNITED STATES OF AMEWRCA,

Northern Districtof New York, ss.
"At a Circuit Court of the United States, begun-and held at
Albany, for the Northern District of New York, in the Second
Circuit, on th6 third Tuesday of October, in the, year of our
Lord 1848, and in the seventy-third year of American Independence.
"Present, the Honorable Samuel Nelson and Alfred Conkling, Esquires.

"THE

UNITED STATES or AERICA V. PETER MAIUGdLD.

"aState of the Pleadings.
"This is an indictment ajainst the defendant, charging him,
under the twentieth section of the act of Congress entitled
IAn act more effectually to provide for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States, and for other purposes,'
approved March 3, 1825,"1st. With having brought into the United States, from a
foreign place, with intent to pass, utter, publish, and sell as
true, certain false, forged, and counterfeit coins, made, forged,
and counterfeited in the resemblance and similitude of certain
gold and silver coins of the United States, coined-at the mint,
he knowing the same to be false, forged, and counterfeit, and
intending thereby to defraud divers personsl unknown.
"2d. With having uttered, published, and passed such counterfeit coins, with intent to defraud, &c.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

561

The United States v. Marigold.

"To this indictment the defendant demurs, and George W.
Clinton, attorney of the United States for the said district, who
prosecutes in this behalf, joins in demurrer.
"This cause coming on to be argued at this term, the following questions occurred: "1st. Whether Congress, under and by the Constitution, had
power and authority to enact so much of the said twentieth
section of the said act as relates to bringing into the United
States counterfeit coins.
"2d. Whether Congress, under and by virtue of the Constitution, had power to enact so much of the siid twentieth section as, relates to uttering, publishing, passing, and selling of
the counterfeit coins therdin specified.
" On which said several questions the opinions of the judges
were opposed.
"Whereupon, on motion of the said attorney, prosecuting for
the United States in this behalf, that the points on which the
disagreement has happened may, during the term, be stated
under the direction of the judges, and certified under the seil
of the court to the Supreme Court, to be finally decided,
it is ordered, that the foregoing state of the pleadings and
statement of the points upon which the disagreement has hap..
pened, which is made under the direction of the judges, be
certified, according to the request of the attorney, prosecuting
as aforesaid, and the law in that case made and provided."
The case came up to this court upon this certificate.
The clauses in the Constitution of the United States and the
act of Congress were the following.
By the fifth and sixth clauses of the eighth section of the
first article of the Constitution, it is declared that Congress
shall have power, among other things, "to coin money, regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin, and fix the standard
of weights and measures"; "to provide for the punishment of
counterfeiting the securities and current coin of the United
States." 1 Statutes at Large, 14.
By the twentieth section of the Crimes Act of 3d March,
1825 (4 Statutes at Large, 121), it is enacted, "That if any
person or persons shall falsely make, forge, or counterfeit, or
cause or procure to be falsely made, forged, or counterfeited,
or willingly aid or assist in falsely making, forging, or counterfeiting, any coin in-the resemblance or similitude of the gold or
silver coin which has been, or hereafter may be, coined at the
mint of the United States, or in the resemblance or similitude
of any foreign gold or silver coin which by law now is, or here-

562

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Marigold.

after may be made, current in the United States; or shall pass,
utter, publish, or sell, or attempt to pass, utter, publish, or sell?
6r bring into the United States from any foreign place with
intent to pass; utter, publish, or sell, as true, any such false,
forged, or counterfeited coin, knowing the same to be false,
forged, or counterfeited, with intent to defraud any body politic
or corporate, or any other person or persons whatsoever ; every
person so offending shall be deemed guilty of felony, and shall
on conviction thereof be punished by fine not exceeding five
thousand dollars, and by imprisonment and confinement to hard
labor not exceeding ten years, accordig to the aggravation of
the offence."
The case was argued by Mr. Tohnson (Attorney-General),
for the United States, and Mr. Seward, for the defendant.
Mr. Johnson contended, that both questions shduld bb answered in the affirmative.
1. Because, under the fifth clause of the eighth section of
the first article of the Constitution, the power to coin money,
regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin, includes the
power in question.
2., Because, if it does not, it is included in the power to provide for the punishment of counterfeiting the securities and
current coins of the United States, in the succeeding clause of
the same section.
3. Because, if' the question was at any time a doubtful one,
it is to be considered as settled by legislative "and judicial precedents, as well upon these provisions as, with reference to this
question, upon analogous provisions in the. Constitution. 3
Story on Constitution, ยง 1118; Rawle, ch. 9, p. 163; The
Federalist, No. 42 ; Act of 21st April, 1806 (2 Statutes at
Large, 404); McCulloch v. State of Maryland, 4 Wheat. 401,
409, 416 -419, 421.
Mr. Seward contended that the whole question had been
adjudicated in the case of Fox-v. The State of Ohio, 5 Howard, 433.
The State of Ohio had enacted a law, "that, if any person
shall counterfeit any of the coins of gold, silver, or copper.currently passing in this State, or shall alter or put off counterfeit
coin or coins, knowing them to be such," &c. 29 Ohio Stat.
136, quoted 5 Howard, 432. Malinda Fox was convicted of pass,
ing, with fraudulent intent, a base and counterfeit coin, in the
similitude of a good and legal silver dollar. She brought a writ

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

563

The United States v. Marigold.

of error to this court, on the ground of the unconstitutionality
of the Ohio statute. The judgment was affirmed, jnd so the
Ohio statute was sustained.
This decision is conclusive that the portions of the law of
Congress of 1825 now under consideration are unconstitutional. But this argument requires the following conditions to
be established: 1. That the offence prohibited by this portion of the act of
Congress, and the offence forbidden by the Ohio statute, be.
identical.
2. That the constitutionality of the Ohio law appears' to have
been sustained upon the ground, not of a 'concurrent jurisdiction of the offence in the State and national governments, but
on the ground of an exclusive jurisdiction residing in the State
alone.
3. That the principle thus decided was necessarily involved
in that case, and therefore the authority in that case is not
obiter, but res adjudicata.
That the coin in the Ohio case was legalized coin was as.
sumed by the whole court, including Judge McLean. Daniel's
Opinion, 5 Howard, 432. McLean's Opinion, 5 Howard, 436.
I. The offences were identical under the two acts. In the
Ohio statute, it was not-the "making, the forging, or the counterfeiting, or the aiding in making, forging, or counterfeiting
the coin"; it was the "putting off counterfeit coin or coins,
knowing them to be such." Puttingoff in' the one case, and
passing in the other, are identical. Importing, or bringing in
from other places, with intent to pass, is of the same character,
as opposed to making, forging, or counterfeiting. And this is
the test, as established by the Supreme Court. Fox v. Ohio, 5
Howard, 433.
And there is yet another index in 'the test. It is the party to
be directly affected by the fraud ; -in the one case, the government ; in the other, individuals. And 'the act of Congress of
1825 includes this very intent to defraud iudividuals, not the
government.
II. The constitutionality of the Ohio law appears to have
been sustained upon the ground, not of a concurrent "jurisdiction of the offence in the State and national governments, but
on the ground of an exclusive jurisdiction in the State.
Nothing could be more direct or explicit than the language
of the court (5 Howard, 433): - " We think it manifest that
the language of the Constitution, by its proper signification, is
limited to the facts, or to the faculty in Congress of coining
and of stamping the standard of value upon what the govern-

5G4

SUPREME COURT.
The United States'v. Marigold.

-

ment creates or shall adopt, and of punishing the offence of
producing a false representation of what may have been sq
created or adopted. The imposture of passing a false coin creates, produces, or alters nothing; it leaves the legal coin as it
was," &a.
II . The question was directly involved in that case. Judge
Daniel so held it. So did Judge McLean (5 Howard, 437):
-" And these powers must be incomplete, and in a great degree ihoperative, unless Congress can exercise the power to
punish the passing of counterfeit coin."
But it was indispensably involved in that case. The court
could only obtain' jurisdiction of the Ohio case on the ground
that the Ohio law conflicted with the constitutional sovereignty
of the United States. That conflict was the exact, the controlling question.. If a question at all what were the boundaries of the respective jurisdictions, it was not incidental, but material, essential. If you could now say !hat the jurisdictions
are concurrent, you could equally say that the State had no
jurisdiction at all. The whole gourse of reasoning, of logic,
must be changed.
What is obiter ? Judge McLean's reasoning is conclusive,
that the power must be exclusive in the States; since he shows
that where it resides it must be exclusive. 5 Howard, 438, 439.
The -views thus submitted are .sustained by the opinion of
Conkling, Judge of the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of New York, in the case of The United
, Lqw Reporter, June, 1849, p: 90. And they
States v.
are opposed by Brockenbrough, District Judge for, the Western
District f Virginia, in the case of Campbell v. United States,
Law-Reporter, Vol. X. p. 400. But the learned judge only
shows, that, as the precise questions had not been decided by
the Supreme Court in a case where the indictment was for
passing counterfeit coin, he felt himself at liberty to sustain indictments found under the act of 1825. The act of 1825 must
be assumed to have been known to the Supreme Court when
they decided the case of Fox v. Ohio.
Tho argument derived by Judge Brockenbrbugh from the
analogy to the provision concerning the post-office is untenable;
because in that case the Constitution did not define the power
of Congress, but left a full disdretion; whereas, in-the case of
coin, the Constitution defines the power of punishing counterfeiting, and limits it to the making of the spurious coin.
The British statutes define two classes of ofences in regard
to coin, -the making- hnd the passing; and the terms of the
Constitution adopt the former only.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

565

The United States v. Maxigold.

This distinction was recognized in the case of Fox v. Ohio.
And Judge Brockeubrough admits it. And he concedes that
the power to punish the passing is not derived from any amplification of the term counterfeiting in the Constitution. Law
Reporter, Vol. X. p. 404. But the Judge maintains that it is
an implied power.
But the court forgets that the Constitution foundiall the
States in possession of jurisdiction over private frauds; and it
is to I e inferred that it was thought that jurisdiction might
best be left there. The question now is,not whether it was
wisely left there, but whether it was left there. The Judge
(Brockenbrough) erred in assuming that the denial of jurisdiction to Congress in the case of Fox v. Ohio was obiter. On
the contrary, the court expressly deny it, and argue upon the
opposite assumption as one conceded, not in fact, but only for
argument's sa,..
The provision is wise as it is now settled. Congress is to
furnish a uniform currency for all the States, and is to punish
the crime of forging it. But the multiplied ramifications of
crime require that the courts of the several States should have
power to punish frauds in commerce and traffic, as well wVhen
coin is the instrument as in other cases. The machinery of
State police and penal jurisprudence is better adapted and more
effective.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered -the opinion of the court.
This is a certificate _; division of opinion from the Northern
District of New York.
The case is clearly and succinctly stated in the following abstract from the record: 'At a Circuit Court of the United States, begun and held at
Albany, for the Northern District of New York, in the Second
Circuit, on the third Tuesday of October, in the year of our
Lord 1848, and in the seventy-third year of American Independence.
"Present, the Honorable Samuel Nelson and Alfred Conk-

ling, Esquires.
TnTE UNITED STATES or AMERICA V. PETER MARIGOLD.

"State of the Pleadings.
"This is, an indictment against the defendant, charging him,
under the twentieth section of the act of Congress entitled
'An act more effectually to provide for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States, and for other purposes,'
approved March 3, 1825, VOL. IX.

48

566

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Marigold.

"1st. With having brought into the United States, from a
foreign place, with intent to pass, utter, publish, and sell as
true, certain false, forged, and -counterfeit coins, made, forged,
and counterfeited in the resemblance and similitude of certain
gold and silver coins of the United States, coined at the mint,
he knowing the same to be false, forged, and counterfeit, and
intending thereby to defraud divers persons unknown.
"2d. With having uttered, published, and passed such counterfeit coins, with intent to defraud, &c.
" To this indictment the defendant demurs, and George W.
Clinton, attorney of the United States for the said district, who
prosecutes in this behalf, joins in demurrer.
"This cause coming on to be argued at this term, the following questions occurred: "First. Whether Congress, under and by the Constitution,
had power and authority to enact so much of the said twentieth
section of the said act as relates to bringing into the United
States counterfeit coins.
" Second. Whether Congress, under and by virtue of the
Constitution, had power to enact so much of the said twentieth
section as relates to uttering, publishing, passing, and selling
of the counterfeit coins therein specified.
'-On which said several questions, the opinions of the judges
were opposed.
"Whereupon, on motion of the said attorney, prosecuting for
the United States in this behalf, that the points on which the
disagreement has happened may, during the term, be stated
under the direction of the judges, and certified under the seal
of the court to the Supreme Court, to be finally decided, it is ordered, that the foregoing state of the pleadings, and
statement of the points upon which the disagreement has happened, which is made under the direction of the judges, be certified, according to the request of the attorney, prosecuting as
aforesaid, and the law in that case made and provided."
The inquiry first propounded upon this record points, obviously, to the answer which concedes to Congress the power
here drawn in question. Congress are, by the Constitution,
vested with the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations; and however, at periods of high excitement, an application of the terms "to regulate commerce ' such as would.embrace absolute prohibition may have been questioned, yet,
since the passage of the embargo and non-intercourse laws, and
the repeated judicial sanctions those statutes have received, it
can scarcely, at this day, be open to doubt, that every subject
falling within the legitimate sphere of commercial regulation

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

567

The United States v. Marigold.

may be partially or wholly excluded, when either measure
shall be demanded by the safety or by the important interests
of the entire nation Such exclusion cannot be limited to particular classes or descriptions of commercial subjects; it may
embrace manufactures, bullion, coin, or 'any other thing.
The power once conceded, it may operate on any and every
subject of commerce to which the legislative discretion may
apply it.
But the twentieth section of the act of Congress of March
3d, 1825, or rather those provisions of that section brought-to
the view of this court by the second question certified, are not
properly referable to commercial regilations, merely as such;
nor to considerations of ordinary commercial advantage. They
appertain rather to the execution of an important trust invested
by the Constitution, and to the obligation to fulfil that trust on
the part of the government, namely, the trust and the duty of
creating and maintaining a uniform and pure metallic standard
of value throughout the Union. The power of coining money
and of regulating its value was delegated to Congress by the
Constitution for the very purpose, as assigned by the framers of that instrument, of creating and preserving the uniformity and purity of such a standard of value ; and on account of
the impossibility which was foreseen of otherwise preventing.
the inequalities and the confusion necessarily incident to different views of policy, which in different communities would
be brought to bear on this subject. The power to coin money
being thus given to Congress, founded on public necessity, it
must carry with it the correlative power of protecting the creature and object of that power. It cannot be imputed to wise
and practical statesmen, nor is it consistent with common sense,
that they should have vested this high and exclusive authority,
and with a view to objects partakin- of the magnitude of the
authority itself, only to be rendered ILnmediately vain and useless, as must have been the case had the government been left
disabled and impotent as to the only means of securing the objects in contemplation.
If the medium which the government was authorized to create and establish could immediately be expelled, and substituted
by one it had neither created, estimated, nor authorized, - one
possessing no intrinsic value, - then the power conferred by the
Constitution would be useless, - wholly fruitless of every end it
was designed to accomplish. Whatever functions Congress
are, by the Constitution, authorized, to perform, they are, when
the public good requires it, bound to perform; and on this principle, having emitted a circulating medium, a standard of value

508

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Marigold.

indispensable for the purposes of the community, and for the
action of the government itself, they are accordingly authorized
and bound in duty to prevent its debasement and expulsion,
and the destruction of the general confidence and convenience,
by the influx and substitution of a spurious coin in lieu of the
constitutional currency. We admit that the clause of the Constitution authorizing Congress to provide for the punishment
of counterfeiting the securities and current coin of the United
States does not embrace within its language the offence of uttering or circulating spdrious or counterfeited coin (the term
counterfeit,both by its etymology and common intendment, signifying the fabrication of a false image or representation); nor
do we think it necessary or regular to seek the foundation of
the offence of circulating spurious coin, or for the origin of the
right to punish that offence, either in the section of the statute
before quoted, or in this clause of the Constitution. We trace
both the offence and the authority to punish it to the power
given by the Constitution to coin money, and to the correspondent and necessary power and obligation to protect and to preserve in its purity this constitutional currency for the benefit
of the nation. Whilst we hold it a sound maxim that no powers should be conceded to the Federal gbvernment which cannot be regularly and legitimately found in the charter of its
creation, we acknowledge equally the obligation to withhold
from it no'power or attribute which, by the same charter, has
been declared necessary to the execution of expressly granted
powers, and to the fulfilment of clear and well-defined duties.
It has been argued, that the doctrines ruled in the case Of
Fox v. The State of Ohio are in conflict with the positions just
stated in the case before us. "We can perceive no such conflict,
and think that any supposition of the kind must flow from a
misapprehension of one or of both of these cases. The case of
Fox v. The State of Ohio, involved no question whatsoever as
to the powers of the Federal government to coin money and
regulate 'its value; nor as to the power of that government to
punish the offence of importing ,or circulating spurious coin;
nor as to its power to punish for counterfeiting the current coin
of the United States. That case was simply a prosecution for
a private cheat practised by one citizen of Ohio upon another,
within the jurisdiction of the State, by means of a base coin in
the similitude of a dollar, - an offence denounced by the'law
of Ohio as obnokious to punishment by confinement in the
State Penitentiary. And the question, and the only one, brought
up for the examination of this court was, whether this private
cheat could be punished by the State authorities, on account of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

569

The United States v. Marigold.

the immediate instrument of its perpetration having been a
base coin, in the similitude of a dollar of the coinage of the
United States.
The stress of the.argument of this court in that case was to
show, that the right of the State to punish that cheat had not
been taken from her by the express terms, nor by any necessIary implication, of the Constitution. It claimed for the State
neither the power to coin money nor to regulati the value of
coin; but simply that of protecting her citizens against frauds
committed upon them within her jurisdiction, and, indeed, as
a means auxiliary thereto, of relying upon the true standard of
the coin as established and regulated under the authority of
Congress. In illustration of the existence of the right just
mentioned in the State, and in order merely to show that it
had not been taken from her, it was said that the punishment
of such a cheat did not fall within the express language of those
clauses of the Constitution which gave to Congress the right of
coining money and of regulating its value, or of providing for
the punishment of counterfeiting the current coin. It was also
said by this court, that the fact of passing or putting off a base
coin did not fall within the language of those clauses of the
Constitution, for this fact fabricated, altered, or changed nothing, but left the coins, whether genuine or spurious, precisely
as before. 'But this court have nowhere said, that an offence
cannot be committed against the coin or currency of the United
States, or against that constitutional power which is exclusively
authorized for public uses to create that currency, and which
for the same public uses and necessities is authorized and bound.
to preserve it; nor have they said, that the debasement of the
coin would not be as effectually accomplished by introducing
and throwing into circulation a currency which was spurious
and simulated, as it would be by actually making counterfeits,
- fabricating coin of inferior or.base metal. . On the contrary,
we think that either of these proceedings would be equally in,
contravention of the right and of the obligation appertaining to
the government to coin money, and to protect and preserve it
at the regulated or standard rate of value.,
With the view of avoiding conflict between the State and
Federal jurisdictions, this court in the case of Fox v. The
State of Ohio have taken care. to point out, that the same act
might, as to its character and tendencies, and the consequences
it involved, constitute an offence against both the State and
Federal governments, and might draw to its commission the
penalties denounced by either, as appropriate to its character in
reference to each. We think this distinction sound, as we hold
48*

570

SUPREME COURT,
The United States v. Marigold.

to be the entire doctrines laid down in the case abov mentioned, and regard them as being in no wise in conflict with the
conclusions adopted in the present case.
We therefore order it to be certified to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Northern District of New York, in
answer to the questions propounded by that court 1st. That Congress had power and authority, under. the Constitution, to enact so much of the twentieth section of the act
of March 3, 1825, entitled "An act more effectually to provide
for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States,
and for other purposes," as relates to bringing into the United
States counterfeit coins.
2d. That Congress, under and by virtue of the Constitution,
had power to enact so much of the said twentieth section as
relates to the uttering, publishing, passing, and selling of the
counterfeit coin therein specified.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of New York, and on the points or questions on which
the judges of the said Circuit Coirt were opposed in opinion,
and which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably
to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
-of this court, - 1st. That Congress had power and authority,
under the Constitution, to enact so much of the twentieth section of the act of 3d March, 1825, entitled "An act more
effectually tcr provide for the punishment of certain crimes
against the United States, and for other purposes," as relates to
,bringing . into the United States counterfeit coins; and 2d.
That Congress, under and by virtue of the Constitution, had
power to enact so much of the said twentieth section as relates
to uttering, publishing, passing, and selling of the counterfeit
coins therein specified. Whereupon, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to the said Circuit
Court.

