314

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et aI.

time, and was refuised the benefit of it, not because it was adjudged insufficient as a defence, but because the court considerdd they had no discretion to allow it. The mandate fiom
this'court was, probably, made without reference to the possible
eonsequences that might flow from it, At all events, it operated
'unjustly, by precluding the complainant from an opportunity of
making a just and legal defence to the action. The payment
was made while the cause was pen'ding here. The party was
guilty of no laches, but lost the benefit of his defence, by an
accident over which he had no control. He is, therefore, in.
the same condition as if the defence had arisen after judgment,
which would entitle him to relief by audita guerelda, or a bill
in equity for an injunction.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the complainant was entitied td the relief prayed for in his bill, and that the decree of
the court below should be rbversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Mississiplii, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
,that this cause be, and the.same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

RoBINsoN

LTLE AND LYDIA LOUIsA LYTLE,

HIS WIFE,

ELIAS

HOOPER AND MARY E. HOOPER,oHIS WIPE, AND NATHAN H. (r.OYES,
A MINOR, UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF AGE, BY WILEY CLAYv. THE STATE OF - ARKANSAS, WIL,Wu RusTON, HIS GtrAR.a,

SELL, THE REAL ESTATE BANK OF THE STATE Or ARKANSAS, THE
TRUSTEES .Or SAID REAL ESTATE BANK AFORESAID, RICHARD C.

BYRD, JAMES PITCHER, WK. P. OFFICER, EBENE7iR WALTERS,

Jom WASSELL, JOHN W. CocRK, FftEDERICK W. TRAPNALL,
GEORGE C. WATKINS, SAMUEL H. HEMPSTEAD, JOHri ROBINS, JOHN
PERCEPUL, JAMES, S. CONWAY, HENRY F. PENDLETON, JACOB
MITcHELL, THOMAs S. REYNOLDS, JOHN H. "LEECH, WK. E.
WOODRUFF, CHESTER AsH ru, WK. 3. BraD, WK. W. DAVEL,
AND -JOHN MOhRISON AND EDNEY, HIS WIFE.
The preemption act of May 29th, 1830, conferred certain rights upon settlrs upon

the public lands, upon pro6f of settlement or improvement being made to the sats-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

315

Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.
faction of the register and receiver, agreeably to the rules prescribed by the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
The commissioner directed the proof to be taken before the register -and receiver,
and afterwards directed them to file the proof where it should establish to their entire satisfaction the rights of the parties.
Where the proof was taken in presence of the register only, but both officers decided.
in favor of the claim, and the money paid by the claimant was received by the
commissioner, this was sufficient. The commissioner had power to make the
regulation, and power also to dispense with it.
This proof being filed, there was no necessity of reopening the case when the public
surveys were returned.
The circumstanc,, that the register would not afterwards permit the claimant to enter the section, did not invalidate the claim.
The preEmptioner had no right to go beyond the fractional section upon which his
improvements were, in order to make up the one hundred and sixty acres to which
settlers generally were entitled.
No selection of lands under a subsequent act of Congress could impair the right of a
preebptioner, thus acquired.

THIs case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Arkansas, by a writ of error issued under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act.
It involved the validity of an entry of four fractional quartersections of land, one of which only, namely, the northwest
fractional quarter of .ection number two in township one
north of range twelve west, was passed upon by this court.
The history of the claim is this.
The act of Congress passed on the 29th of May, 1830 (4
Stat. at Large, 420), gave to every occupant of the public lands
prior to the date of the act, and who had cultivated any part
thereof in the year 1829, a right to enter at.the minimum price,
by legal subdivisions, any number of acres not exceeding one
hundred and sixty, or a quarter-section, to include his improvement ; provided, the land shall not have been reserved for the
use of the United States or either of the several States.
In the third section of the act it is provided, that, before any
entries being made under the act, proof of settlement or improvement shall be made to the satisfaction of the register and
receiver of the land district in which the lands may lie, agreeably to the rules prescribe . by the Commissioner of the General Land Office for that purpose.
On the 10th of June, 1830, the commissioner issued his instructions to the receivers and registers, under the above act, in
which he said, that the fact of cultivation and possession re-.
quired "must be established by the. affidavit of the occupant,
supported by such corroborative testimony as may be entirely
satisfactory to both; the evidenee must be taken by a justice of
the peace in the presence of the register and receiver." And
the commissioner directed, that, where the improvement was
wholly on a quarter-section, the occupant was limited to such

316

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et aL

quarter; but where the improvement is situated in different
quarter-sections adjacent, he may enter a half quarter in each
to embrace his entire improvement.
Another circular, dated 7th February, 1831, was issued,
instructing the land officers, where persons claiming pre6mption rights had been prevented, under the above circular, from
making an entry, "by reason of the township plats not having
been furnished by the surveyor-general to the register of the
land office, the parties entitled to the benefit 'of said act may
be permitted to file the proof thereof, under the instructions
heretofore given, identifying the tract of land as well as circumstances will admit; any time prior to the 30th of May next."
And they were requested to "keep a proper abstract or list of
such cases wherein the proof shall be of a character sufficient
to establish, to their entire satisfaction, the right of the pdrties,
respectively, to a preemption," &c. "No payments, however,
were to- be received on account of preemption rights duly
established, in cases where the townships were known to be
surveyed, but the plats whereof were not in their office, until
wey shall receive further instructions."
It may be here remarked, that the public surveys of the land
in question were not completed until the 1st of December,
1833, nor returned to the land office until the beginning of the
year 1834.
On the 2d of March, 1831, Congress passed an act (4 Stat.
at Large, 473), "granting a quantity of land to the Territory
of Arkansas, for the erection of a public building at the seat of
government of said Territory"; but this act did not desighate
what specific tract of land should be granted for that purpose.
On the 23d of April, 1831, Cloyes filed the following affidavit in the office of the register, in support of his claim to a
premption right.
"PreFmption Claim, May 29, 1830.
"Nathan CIoyes's testimony, taken on the 23d of April, 1831,
before James Boswell, a justice of the peace for the County of
Independence, in. the register's office, in the presence of the
register.
"Question by the Register. What tract of the public lands
did you occupy in the year "1829, that you claimed a right of
preemption upon ?
"Answer.
On the N. W. fract. 4 of sec. 2, in township
1 north of range 12 west, adjoining the Quapaw line, being the
first fraction that lies on the Arkansas River, immediately below the town of Little Rock, and contains about twenty.eight

JANUARY TEIRM. 1850.

817

Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

or twenty-nine acres, as I have been informed by the ceunty
surveyor of Pulaski County; and I claim under the law the
privilege to enter the adjoining fraction or fractions, so as not
[to] exceed one hundred and sixty acres, all being on the river
below the before-named fraction.
"Question as before. Did you inhabit and cultivate said
fraction of land in the year 1829 ; and if so, what improvement
had you in that year in cultivation ?
"Answer. I did live on said tract of land in the year 1829,
and had done so since the year 1826; and in the year 1829
aforesaid, I had in cultivation a garden, perhaps to the extent.
of one acre; raised vegetables of different kinds, and corn for
roasting years (ears), and I lived in a comfortable dwelling, east
of the Quapaw line, and on the before-named fraction.
"Question as before. Did you continue to reside and cultivate your garden aforesaid on the before-named fraction until
the 29th of May, 1830 ?
"Answer. I did, and have continued to do so until this time:
"Question as before. Were you, at the passage of the act
of Congress under which you claim a right of preEmption, a
farmer; or, in other words, what was your occupation?
"Answer. I was a tin-plate worker, and cultivated a small
portion of the fraction before named for the comfort of ny
family, and carried on my business in a shop adjoining my
house.
"Question as before. Do you know of any interferingclaim under the law, that you claim a preemption right upoll
the fraction whereon you live?
"Aniswer.
I know of none. And further this deponent
saith not.
"NITEuN CLOtES.

"Sworn and subscribed to before.me, the date aforesaid.
"J. BoswELL, . P.1
On the same day, Cloyes filed also the corroborative testimony of John Saylor, Nathan W. Maynor, and Eliott Bursey.
On the 28th of May, 1831, the register and receiver made
the following entry, and gave Cloyes the following certificate.,
"PreEmption Cla in, 29th May, 1830.
"Nathan Cloyes, No. -24, N. W. fractional J 2, 1 N. 12 W.
granted for the above fractional J, and reject the privilege of
entering the adjoining fractions. May 28, 1831.
"H. BOsWELL,'Register.
JoHN REDw.AN, Receiver."
0,*

ae88

SUPREME COURT.
iytle et I. v. Tire State of Arkansas et aL

On the 15th of June, 1832, Congress passed an Act (4 Stat.
at Large, 531), granting one thousand acres of land to the Territory of .P-kansas, "contiguous. to, and adjoining the town of
Little Rock," for the erection of a court-house and jail at Little
Rock.
On the 4th of July, 1832; Congress passed another act (4
Stat. at Large, 563), authorizing the Governor of the Territory
to select ten sections of laid to build a legislative house for the
Territory.
On the 14th of July, 1832, Congress passed an act (4 Stat.
at Large, 603), giving to persons entitled to pregmption under
the act of 1830, (but who had not been able to enter the same
within the time limited, because the ,township plats had not
been made and returned,) one year from the time when such
township plats should be returned, to enter said lands upon the
same terms and conditions as prescribed in the act of 1830.
On the 2d of March, 1833, Congress passed an.act (4 Star
at Large, 661) authorizing the Governor of the Territory to sell
the lands granted by the act of 15th June, 1832.
Under these acts of Congress, Governor Pope made a part of
his location upon the fractional quarter-sections in questiont
up)n the 30th of January, 183g.
It has been already mentioned, that on the 1st of Decemberi
1833, the public surveys were completed, and returned to the
land office in the beginning of the year 1834.
*On the 5th of March, 1834, the heirs of Clayes (he being
dead) paid for the four fractional quarter-sections, and took the
following receipt.
"Receiver's Ofice at Little Rock, March 5, 1834.
"Received by the hands of Ben Desha, from, Lydia Louisa
Cloyes, Mary Easther Cloyes, Nathan Henry Cloyes, and William Thomas Cloyes, (heirs of Nathan Cloyes, deceased, late
of Pulaski County, A. T.,) the sum of one hundred and thirtyfive dollars and seventy-six and cents, being in payment for
the northwest and northeast fractional quarters of section two,
and the northwest and northeast fractional quarters of section
one, in fractional township one, north of the base line, and
range twelve, west of the fifth principal meridian, containing
in all one hundred and eight 61-100 acres, at $ 1.25 per acre.
P. T. CRUTCHFIELD, Receiver.
"$ 135.76J.
"A part of the land for which the within receipt is given, to
wit, 'then rthwest fractional quarter of section two,' forms a
part of the location made by Governor Pope, in selecting 1,000

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

319

Lytle et aL. v. The State of Arkwnsss et. aL.

acres adjoining the town of Little Rock, granted by Congress
to raise a fund for building a court-house and jail for the Territory of Arkansas; and this indorsement is made by direction
of the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
"P. T. CRUTCHFEzLD, Reeewe.
"Receiver's Office at Little Rock, March 5, 1834."
In 1843 the heirs of Cloyes filed a bill against all the persons
mentioned in the title of this statement, who had purchased
various interests in these fractional quarter-secfions, and claimed
title under Governor Pope. The bill was-filed in the Pulaski
Circuit Court of the State, setting forth the above facts, and
praying that the defendants might be ordered to surrender theit
patents and other muniments of title to the complainants.
The parties who were interested in the northwest fractional
quarter of section number two answered the bill.' The other
parties demurred.
The answers admnitted that proof of a preemption right to
the northwest fractional quarter of section two was made -by
Cloyes at the time and in the manner set forth in the bill; but
deny that he had a valid pregmption to it. They admit also,
that Governor Pope selected said quarter in pursuance of the
two acts of Congress of 15th June, 1832, and 2d March, 1833,
but deny that he did so illegally or by mistake.
In July, 1844, the Pulaski Circuit Court sustained the demurrer of the parties who had demurred, .and dismissed -the bill
as to thope who had answered.
In July, 1847, the Supreme Court of Arkansas, to which the
cause had been carried, affirmed the judgment of the court b.
low, and a writ of error brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Badger, for the
plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Sebastian, for the defendants in
error.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error said that the three following questions arose.
1. Was Cloyes entitled to have entered the land in question
on the 28th of May, 1831, if the township plat had at that time
been in the land office?
2. Did the act of 15th June, 1832, granting to the Territory
of Arkansas one thousand acres of land, generally, confer any
specific right to this particular fraction before its actual selection by the Governor?
3. If not, then did not the act of 14th July, 1832, reserve
this fraction from selection, location, and sale, until the expira-

3120

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et aL v. The State of Arkansas et al.

tion of one year from the return of the township plat to the
land office?
In regard to the first question, there is but one objection
which can be -urged with- even a tolerable amount of plausibility in its favor, (that which is made the first ground of demurrer by those :who have demurred to the bill,) namely, that
the proof exhibited in the bill does not appear to have been
taken in the presence of the register and receiver.
The circular dated June 10, 1830, from the General Land
Office, contains, among other things, the following paragraph,
viz.: - "The evidence must be taken by a justice of the peace,
in the presence of the register and receiver, and be in answer
to such interrogatories propounded by them as may be best cal-'
culated to elicit the truth."
The caption of the testimony in the record is, "Nathan
Cloyes's testimony, taken on 23d April, 1831, before James
Boswell, a justice of the peace for the County of IndependencA,
in she register's office, in the presence of the register." It is
maintained that this omission in the caption to make it appear
that the -evidence was taken 'before the register and receiver,
destroys Cloyes's right of pregmption. To this view several
answers may be given. It does not positively appear that the
receiver was not present, and the presumption of law is, that
a government officer has done his duty till the contrary appears. Wilcol v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 511 ; Winn et al. v. Patterson, 9 Pet. 663; 1 Cooke, (Tenn.) 492; 3 Yerger, 309; 2
Tennessee, 154, 284, 306, 421. It does appear that both the
register and receiver, on the same day (23d April, 1831), admitted Cloyes's right to enter the land in question.
But suppose the proof was not taken in presence of both the
register and receiver, still the land' office circular was merely
directory to the officers as to the manner of taking the proof,
and any mere error or irregularity on the part of the officers
cannot prejudice the rights of the preemption. 3 Johns. Ch.
275; 2 Cond. Rep. .237, 243; 2 Edw. Ch. 261; 4- How.
(Miss.) 57; Ross v. Doe, 1 Pet. 655; Pond v. Negus, 3 Mass.
230; Rodebaugh v. Sanks, 2 Watts, 9; Holland v. Osgood, 8
Verm. 280; Corliss v. Corliss, 8 Verm. 390; People v. Allen, 6
Wend. 486.
The Commissioner of the General Land Office, who issued
the circular, by authorizing the receiver to take the payment
offered by the heirs of Cloyes, without taking any exception to
the manner in which the proof had been taken, suspended, .pro
hac vice, the regulation, and sanctioned the mode in which it
was in fact taken.- The regulation itself was full of incon-

JANCARY TERM, 1850.

3"

Lytle et &I. v. The State of Arkansas et &I.

venience, was never fully carried out in 'fac; gnd iras finally'
rescinded by the circular of 22d July, 1834 (2 Land LaOs, 589).
The decision of the register and receiver was in faor of
Cloyes's right to the northwest fractiqnal" quarter of section
two, and it being upon a matter within their exclusive jurisdiction, and no appeal being given, that decision was final tmad
conclusive. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498.
Cloyes's right of pregmptiori, then, was perfect, and he'wa
only prevented from consummating it by the fact, that the
township plat was not returned before the expiration-of the preemptio.n law of 1830.
2. The act of 15th June, 1832, (yrhich wusr passed after the
act of 20th May, 1830, had expired,) was only a general grant
of one thousand acres of land in the vicinity of Littler Rock,
without any specification or description of any particular land
whatever, "which lands," it provides, "shall be selected by
the Governor of the Territory in legal subdivisions,f7 &C.
We maintain that, hefore such selection, there was no appropriation of, or lien upon, any particular tract. It was the selection by the Governor that was to withdraw any tract from the
public domain. 5 How. 10.
Covenant to settle particular lands, if for valuable consideration, creates a lien upon the lands, which will be enforced
against all but a purchaser for value and without notice. I
Vern. 206; 1 P. Wmi. 282, 429.
But covenant to settle lands of a particular value, without
mentioning any lands in particular, creates no lien on any of
the covenantor's lands. 1 P. Wins. 429; 4 Bro. Ch. 468,
Eden's note; Russell v. Transylvania University, 1 Wheat.
432.
Governor Pope did not make his selection until the 30th of
January, 1833.
3. Prior to this selection, the act of 14th July, 1832, was
passed, giving to persons entitled to pregmption under the get
of 29th May, 1830, but who had not been able to enter said
lands, bbcause the township plats had not been made and returned, the right to enter said lands, on the same conditions in
every respect, within one year from the time when said township plats should be returned.
It is clear, then, that if the grant of one thousand acres to
Arkansas did not confer a specific right to any particular land,
until selection made by its Governor, (and that selectfon was not
made until after this act of 14th July, 1832, was passed,) then
the latter act reserved from any future selection lands -which
came within its provisions. The northwest fractional quarter

822

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

of section two could not be legally selected by the Governorp
in 1833, because Cloyes had a right of preemption to it under
the act of 29th May, 1830, which the want of the township
plat had alone prevented him from completing. That township
plat was not returned until the beginning of the year 1834.
The act of, 14th July, 1832, gave him until the year 1835 to
make his entry; and within that time he made his payment,
and applied to enter the land.
It is manifest, then, that the-bill should have been sustained
by a decree in favor of the right of Cloyes's heirs to the northwest fractional quarter of section two, on which his settlement
and cultivation were proved.
As to the remaining fractional quarters, the parties interested
have filed a: demurrer to the bill, setting out.several grounds of
demurrer. The first and principal of 'these grounds has already
been answered. Most of the other grounds are but different
statements of a single objection; namely, that Cloyes, having
proved his settlement upon one quarter fractional section .alone,
could not legally claim any thing beyond the fractional quarter
on which he was settled:
The act of 29th May, 1830, does not restrict the right of preemption to the quarter-section on which settlement is made.
The first section is, - "That every settler or occupant of the
public lands, prior to the passage of this act, who is now in,
possession, and cultivated any part thereof in the year one
thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine, shall be, and he is
hereby, authorized to enter with the register of the land office
for the district in which such lands may lie, by lgal subdivisions, any number of acres, not more than one hundred and
sixty, or a quarter-section, to include his improvements, upon
paying," &c. 1 Land Laws, 173.
The only restriction which the law imposes is one hundred
and sixty acres, to be entered by legal subdivisions, and to include his improvement. Within these conditions, he may enter
any number of acres and any number of legal subdivisions.
But we are told that the General Land Office put upon this law
the construction, that the claimant was to be confined to the
fraction on which he settled. It is true that for a time this
construction did prevail in the General Land Office, and, as we
contend, without any warrafft of law.
But that construction- has long since been overruled in that
office. It was overruled by express act of Congress. The
second section of the act of 14th July, 1832, provided,-" That
the occupants upon fractions shall be permitted) in like manner,
to enter the same, so as not to exceed in quantity one quarter-

JANUARY

TERM, 1859.

W

Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

section; and if the fractions exceed a quarter-section, the occu.pant shall be permitted to enter one hundred and sixty acres, to
include his or their improvement, at the price aforesaid."
Since that time, a different construction has prevailed in the
General Land Office. See -Circular, March 1, 1834, 2 LandLaws, 587. See also the letter of Secretary of Treasury of
October 31, 1833, 2 Land Laws, 572; also Circular of 7th
May, 1833.
Mr. Sebastian, for the defendants in error, contended, First, That the proof of pregmption was not taken in the
presence of the register and receiver, agreeably to the rules
prescribed by the Commissioner of the Land Office. The authority conferred upon them was joint, not only in taking the
testimony, but in deciding on the sufficiency of the proof.
Proof made to one -was not a compliance with the law. 5
How. (Miss.) 752; 13 Peters, 511; 1 Peters, 340; Attorney.
General's Opinion, in 2 Land Laws, 85, 98.
But it is said, that it does not positively appear that the receiver was not present, and the presumption of law is, that
every government officer does his duty until the contrary appears. The rule is well stated, but admits of exceptions. It is
a mere- rule of evidence, to supply proof of relevant facts
where the contrary does not appear. The silence of the proof
upon this subject would have left the presumption to operate to
its fullest extent in favor of the legality of the proceedings,
but it went further, and disclosed the fact that the proof was
taken before the register alone. Conclusio -unius exclusio alterius, is a rule of construction that may well apply in this instance. It is not easy to see how the absence of the receiver
could be better stated than in the terms which affirmed the
presence'of the register.
Again, it is contended that the land office circular requiring
proof to be taken in the presence of the" register and receiver
was.directory to the officers as to the manner of taking the
proof, and that any irregularity upon the part of the officers
cannot prejudice the right of preemption.
It is undoubtedly true, that where the State intrusts a duty
to a public officer, and prescribes a particular manner in which
he shall perform it, an irregularity in the manner of its performance shall not prejudice the, right appertaining to the act of
performance. The rule extracted from the cases seems to admit of many exceptions. It applies to the acts of ministerial
officers, and not to those who act in a judicial. capacity; to
those who act irregularly within the limits of authority, but

324

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

not where there is a total want of it (see Wilcox v. Jackson, 13
Peters; 2 Tenn. 154); to those who act as a public and common agent, independent of or as a trustee of the parties, but not
where the act is controlled or to be done by the party himself.
2 Tenn. 284. Now here the register and receiver acted in a
judicial capacity. (Wilcox v. Jackson, and Opinion of AttorneyGeneral, above cited.) The act of May 29th, 1830, ยง 4, makes
it the duty of the settler to make the proof, and the circular
from the land office prescribes how and before whom he shall
make it. The true question, therefore, in this case is, not
whether a ministerial duty has been imperfectly performed, but
whether a judicial function has not been performed without
any authority at all. The only adjudged case upon the direct
point has taken this view of the qtiestion. Fulton v. McAfee,
5 How. (Miss.), above cited.
The supposition that the letter from the Treasury Department (2 Land Laws, 572), by authorizing the receiver to take
payment from Cloyes, suspended pro kac vice the general regnlation as to proof, is unfounded in the terms of that letter. It
was done expressly, not to waive any objection, but "to enable
them the more effectually to maintain their rights before the
judicial tribunals, without prejudice to an adjudication of the
land office." It decided in favor of Governor Pope's locations,
and left Cloyes's claim just where it found it. Had it been so
intended, it was then too late to remove the defect and cut out
the intervening rights under the location of Governor Pope.
The general regulation was not repealed until July 22, 1834,
and until all the rights in controversy had been fixed under
the old law.
If the proof of preEmption should be considered regular, and
in compliance with the ict, and the authoritative instructions
issued in conformity with it, then it is contended that the
northwest fractional quarter of section two, a part of the lands
sued for, was specifically appropriated by the act of Congress
of 15th June, 1832 (4 Stat. at Large, 531), granting one thousand acres of land to the Territory of Arkansas, ",contiguous to
and adjoining the town of Little Rock"; so that when the act
of 14th July, 1832 (4 Stat. at Large, 603), extending and reviving that of 29th May, 1830, was passed, there was nothing
on which the act could operate. When the supplemental act
was passed, the tract on which the pregmption had once been
granted and lapsed was no longer unappropriated land. The
original act, thus revived, extended the right of preemption to
unappropriated lands only. The land granted by the act of
15th June t9 the Territory could not, on the 14th of July fol-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

325

Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

lowing, be considered unappropriated. Upon this point the instructions from the General Land Office of 10th June, 1830, were
explicit. (2 Land Laws, 539.) In these it is said, "that all
lands not otherwise appropriated, of which the township plats
are or may be on file in the register's office, prior to the expiration of the law, are subject to entry." The preemption act of.
1830 expired by its own limitation on the 29th of May, 1831,
and before it was revived, July 14, 1832, the act of 15th June
granted the tract of land to the Territory. The proof of preemption describes the tract cultivated as being immediately be-!
low Little Rock, and the act of 15th June, 1832, above mentioned, grants to the Territory of Arkansas "a quantity of landnet exceeding one thousand acres, contiguous to and adjoining
the town of Little Rock."' By this act the United States was,
concluded. It was not "executory, but passed a present interest, and executed itself. It was not a general grant, but specific, and conveyed, not a mere right at large to locate, but certain lands, and hlthough it did not pretend'to fix the exterior
limits or boundaries, yet one feature was well defined, mostimportant in its operation in this case. The land was "contiguous to and adjoining the town of Little Rock." However indefinite in some features, its terms of description embraced the
very tract on which the ancestor of complainants had claimed a
pregmption. This grant was a contract, and constituted a lieu.
upon the lands coming within its descriptive terms. Pinson
and Harkins v. Ivey, 1 Yerg. 322; 2 Vern. 482; 1 P. Wms.
429; 2 Vern. 97; 1 Eq. Cas. Abr. 31, ch. 4, and 87, ch. 6.
It was,if not a grant, at least a reservation of all those lands
c adjoining and contiguous to the town of Little Rock," for the
satisfaction of the grant, and, to that extent and for that purpose, was an appropriation by law. It was an exemption of
such lands from the operation of all subsequent laws, until its
objects could be satisfied and the act have effect. When the
land should be selected, the title would.legitimately relate to the
date of the act, which is the source of the title. This relation,
however, is unnecessary to overreach the title of complainants,
as the selection- of the lands was long prior to the application of
Cloyes's heirs to enter them, in March, 1834, under the act of
14th July, 1832. Not only so, but on the 2d of March, 1833,
after the location or selection by Governor Pope, an act was
passed authorizing him to 'sll the lands thus selected, of. which
the northwest fractional quarier of section two, was a part.
See 4 Stat. at Large, 661.
This brings us to the consideration of the question as to the
competency of the United States to thus appropriate the land
28
VOL. IX.

3SUPREME

COURT.

Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

in controversy, (as they most unquestionably did by the acts
referred to,) and the nature of the interest in the public domain acquired by settlers upon it.
(The counsel then pfoceeded to argue, that the preemption
law was not a grant, but merely a bounty which the United
States may at any time before final acceptance of its terms and
performance of its conditions wholly modify, destroy, or restrict. 2 Land Laws, 101, 102; 9 Cranch, 92; 1 Scam. 367;
3 Pet. C. C. 40; 5 Martin, N. S. 417;, 6 Martin, 342; 9 La.
Rep. 53; 5 How. Miss. 765; 13 Pet. 514.)
But, waiving the question whether the act of June, 1832,
was a grant, or even a positive reservation, I recur again to the
argument, that this act was at least an appropriation. That is
all that is necessary to sustain the title of the defendants. It is
sufficient alone that the act of 15th June, 1832, was a "setting
apart" of a portion of the public domain for any purpose.
This is but an indication by the government, through some
one of its departments, of its intention to devote it to some
particular purpose. The title still remains in the United States,
withheld from all subsequent
and the land thus indicated is'
laws. Whether as a grant the act was specific or general,
whether it passed a present or future interest, commencing upon
the "selection," cannot alter its operation as an appropriation.
It can be' an appropriation of all lands within its descriptive
terms, withbut being a grant of them. The donation was for
one thousand acres, "contiguous to and adjoining the town of
Little Rock." The appropriation .was therefore coextensive,
tot with the boundaries that might be ascertained by the selection under the act, but it was as broad as the description of
the lands out of which the selection was to be made. This
will be fully comprehended by observing the clear distinction
between the tract selected and the body of lands out of which
the selection was authorized to be made. The appropriation
was temporary, and for a particular purpose. Still, it was to
this ertent an appropriation. By this act the lands were "set
apart," and severed from the public domain, until the purposes
of that act could be satisfied. Doubtless it is true, that, when
the objects of the appropriation were accomplished, the tands
held from disposition by its -force would relapse into the mass
of unappropriated land. But in this case, the appropriation of
this tract, amongst others embraced in this description .of the
law, held it until it was selected, and the selection held it for
ever.
Again, whei the act of 14th July, 1832, was passed, the
lands climed by the. complainants were not surveyed, nor

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

327

Lytle et aL. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

any plats on file in the register's office at the time of thv
expiration of the act of 1830. The bill states the surveys
-to have been made, and the plats thereof to have been returned, in December, 1833, and January, 1834. To such
lands the act of 1830 did not 'extend the right of pregml.
tion. On this point the circular letter of instructions from
the General Land Office, of June 10th, 1830 (2 Land Laws,
540), is explicit: - "Lands not otherwise appropriated, of
which the township plats 6re or may be on file in the register's office prior to the expiration of the law (29th May, 1831),
are subject to entry under the act." These instructions are in
precise conformity with the act; and should be considered as
a part of it. The whole tenor of the act shows that it never
contemplated the possibility of a preemption on any other than
surveyed lands, officially known to be such. All .the terms of
the act, particularly the fourth section, contemplate the maps of
the surveys being on file. The case of settlers upon the unsurveyed domain was~a clear omission. Such settlers never came
within its provisions. The act of 14th July, 1832, was designed for the relief of that class. So far it was not a revival,
but an. extension, of the terms of the act of 1830. It .embraced
what the old act did not. The cultivation and possession of
nmsurveyed land was nothing under the first act. They were
the very basis of right under the new law. Whatever~interest,
therefore, the complainants had, is legally to be ascribed to
this latter act, notwithstanding the proof of pregmption before
the expiration of the pregmption law. Should this question,
then, be considered as a mere contest between titles by relation, extending retrospectively to the first link in them, the defendants have the elder title.
The second ground of demurrer is, " that the bill shows on
its face that said Cloyes was not the settler or occupant of the
northwest and northeast quarters of section two, and northwest
and northeast quarters of section one, township one; north
range twelve .west." The third, fourth, fifth,'sixth, seventh,
eighth, and ninth causes of demurrer are all based upon the
second cause assigned, are altogether substantially the same
proposition, and may be considered in connection. The objections which they present are applicable alone to the title of
complainants to the northeast fractional quarter of section two,
and the northwest and northeast fractional" quarters of section
one, part of the lands claimed by the complainants. These
tracts were claimed -under the privilege, as appurtenant to the
right of pregmptioni proven on the tract cultivated, which
privilege was rejected. These three fractions are held by one

828

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et a.

v. The State of Arkansas et a.

of the defendants under patents, issued upon selections made
by Governor Pope, under different acts of Congress, granting
ten sections of land to the Territory. Those acts have no
connection with -the title to the tract before considered. The
claims thus located were assigned to Win. Russell, one of the
defendants.
That the privilege of preemption did not extend to the additional fractions claimed as appurtenant to it, that the decision
of the register -,nd receiver was right in rejecting it, and that
decision conclusivb until reversed or set aside, and that the
subsequent proceedings of the receiver at Little Rock in
granting his certificate were unwarranted, appear by reference
to the act of 29th May, 1830, the instructions of the Commissioner of the General Land Office under it, and the opinions
of the Atto*rney-General in exposition of them.
(The counsel then proceeded to show that the title of the
complainants was not good to the three fractional quarter-sections.)
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings before us a decree of the Supreme
Court of the State of Arkansas.
The complainants filed their bill in the Pulaski Circuit Court
of that State, charging that Nathan Cloyes, their ancestor, during his life, claimed a right of preemption under the act of
Congress of the 29th of May, 1830, to the northwest fractional
quarter of section numbered two in township one north of
range twelve. wst. That he was in" possession of the land
claimed when the above act was passed, and had occupied it in
1829. That he was entitled to enter, by legal subdivisions,
any number of acres, not more than one hundred and sixty, or
a quarter-section, to include his improvement, upon paying the
minimum price for said land. That Cloyes, in his lifetime, by
his own affidavit, and the affidavits of others, made proof of
his settlement on, and improvement of, the above fractional
quarter, according to the provisions of the above act, to the
satisfaction of the register and receiver of said land district,
agreeably to the rules prescribed by the Commissioner of the
General Land Office; and on the 20th of May, 1831, Hartwell
Boswell; the register, and John Redman, the receiver, decided
that the said Cloyes was entitled to the preemption right
claimed.
That on the same day he applied to the register to enter the
northwest fractional quarter of section two, containing thirty
acres and eighty-eight hundredths of an acre; also the north-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

329

Lytle at aL v. The State of Arkansas et al.

east fractional quarter of the same section, containing forty-two
acresand thirty-two hundredths of an acre; and also the northwest and northeast fractional quarters of section numbered one,
in the same township and range, containing thirty-five acres and
forty-one hundredths of an acre, the said fractional quarter-sections containing one hundred and eight acres and sixty-one hundtedths of an acre; and offered to pay the United States, and
tendered to the receiver, the sum of one hundred and ihirty-five
d6llars seventy-sLx and a fourth cents, the government price for
the land. But the register refused to permit the said Cloyes to
enter the land, and the receiver refused to receive payment for
the same, on the ground that he could only enter the quartersection on which his improvement was made. That the other
quarter-sections were contiguous to the one he occupied.
That under the act of the 29th of June, 1832, entitled, "An
ac establishing land districts in the Territory of Arkansas,"
the above fractional sections of land were transferred to the
Arkansas land district, and the land office was located at Little
Rock, to which the papers in relation to this claim of pregmption were tratismitted.
. The bill further states, that under an act of Congress of the
15th of June, 1832, granting to the Territorkr of Arkansas one
thousand acres of land for the erection of a court-house and jail
at Little Rock, and under "An act to authorize the Governor
of the Territory to sell the land granted for a court-house and
jail, and for other purposes," dated 2d March, 1833, John Pope,
then Governor of said Territory, among other lands, selected, illegally and by mistake, for the benefit of the Territory, the said
northwest fractional quarter of section numbered two, for which
a patent was issued to the Governor of the Territory and his
successors in office, for the purposes stated.
That the said John Pope, as Governor, under an act granting
a quantity of land to the Territory of Arkansas, for the erection
of a public building at the seat of government of said Territory,
dated 2d March, 1831, and an act to authorize the Governor
of the Territory to select ten sections to build a legislative house
for the Territory, approved 4th July, 1832, selected .the northeast
fractional quarter of section two, and the northwest fractional.
quarter and northeast fractional quarter of section one, as unappropriated lands, and, having assigned the same to William
Russell, a patent to him was issued therefor, on or about the
21st of May, 1834, both of which, the complainants allege,
were issued in mistake and in violation of law, and in fraud of
the legal and vested right of their ancestor, Cloyes.
That after therefusal of the receiver to receive payment for
28*

330

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

the land claimed, an act was approved, 14th July, 1832, continuing in force the act of the 29th of May, 1830, and which specilly provided, that those who had not been enabled to enter
the land, the preemption right of which they claimed, within
the time limited, in consequence of the public surveys not having been made and returned, should have the -right to enter
said lands on the same conditions, in every respect, as preadribed in said act, within one year after the surveys should be
made and returned, and the occupants upon fractions in like
m anner to enter the same, so as not to exceed in quantity one
quatter-section. And that this act was in full force before
Governor Pope selected said lands, as afoiesaid. That the public surveys of the above fractional quarter-sections were made
and perfected on Qr about the 1st of December, 1833, and returned to the land office the beginning of the year 1834. On
the 5th of March, 1834, the complainants paid into the land
odfIce the sum of one hundred and thirty-five dollars and seventy-six and one fourth cents, in full for the above-named fractional quarter-sections. That a certificate was granted for the
same, on which the receiver indorsed, that the northwest fractional quarter of section two was a part of the location made
by Governor Pope in selecting one thousand acres adjoining
the townof Little lock, granted by Congress to raise a fund
for building a court-house and jail for the territory; and that
that indorsement was made by direction of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office.
That the register of the land office would not permit the said
fractional quarter-sections to be entered.
That the patentees in both of said patents, at the time of
their application to enter the lands, had both constructive and
actual notice of the right of Cloyes. And that the present
owners of ahy -part of these lands had also notice of the rights
of the complainants.
The answer of the Real Estate Bank and trustees admits the
proof of the preemption claim of Cloyes, but they say, "From
beginning to end it is a tissue of fraud, falsehood, and perjury,
not only on the part of Cloyes, but also on the part of those
:persons by whose oaths the alleged preemption was established.
And they allege, that the lots four, five, and six, in block eight,
in fractional quarter-section two, claimed by the bank, were
prchased of Ambrose H. Sevier in the most perfect good faith,
and without any notice or knowledge whatever, either constructive or otherwise, of any adverse claim thereto." That
they have made improvements on the same, which have cost
twenty-five thousand dollars, without ever having it intimated

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

31

Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

to them that there was any adverse claim, until all of said improvements had been completed.
James S. Conway, in his answer, denies the validity of the
preemption right set up in the bill, and alleges that it was
falsely and fraudulently proved. And he says, that when he
purchased, "he did not know that there was any bona fide adverse claim or right to said lots, or any of them; and 'he avers,
that he is an innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration,
and without actual or implied notice, except as hereinafter
stated." And he admits that he occasionally heard the claim
of Cloyes spoken of, but always with the qualification that it
was fraudulent and void, and had been rejected by the government.
Samuel A.-Hempstead, in his answer, denies that, at the time
of the purchase of said lots, or the recording of said deed, he
had notice, either in fact or law, of the complainants' claim.
The other defendants filed special demurrers to the bill.
The Circuit Court, as it appears, sustained the demurrers, and
in effect dismissed the bill. The cause was taken to the Supreme Court of Arkansas by a writ of error, which affirmed the
decree of the Circuit Court.
The demurrers admit the truth of the allegations of the bill,
and, consequently, rest on the invalidity of the rightasserted
by the complainants. The answers also deny that Cloyes was
entitled to a preemptive right, and a part, if not all of them,
allege that they were innocent purchasers, for a valuable consideration,
notice of the complainants' claim.
. The firstwithout
section of the act of 29th May, 1830, gave to every
occupant of the public lands prior to the date of the act, and
who had cultivated any part thereof in the year 1829, a right
to enter at the ininimum price, by legal subdivisions, any number of acres not exceeding one hundred and sixty or a quartersection, to inc lude his improvement; provided the land shall
not have been reserved for the use of the United States, or
either of the several States.
In the third section of the act it is provided, that, before any
entries being made under the act, proof of settlement or improvement shall be made to the satisfaction of the register and
receiver of the land district in which the lands may lie; agreeably to the rules prescribed by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office for that purpose.
On the 10th bf June, 1830, the commissioner issued his instructions to the receivers and registers under the above act, in
which he said, that the fact of cultivation and possession required "must be established by the affidavit of the occupant,
supported by such corroborative testimony as may be entirely

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

satisfactory to both; the evidence must be taken by a justice of
the peace in the presence of the register and receiver." And the
commissioner directed, that, where the improvement was wholly
on a quarter-section, the occupant was limited to such quarter;
but where the improvement is situated in different quarter-sections adjacent, he may enter a half quarter in each to embrace
his entire improvement.
Another circular, dated 7th February, 1831, was issued, instructing the land officers, where persons claiming preemption
rights had been prevented under the above circular from making an entry, "by reason of the township platp not having been
furnished by the surveyor-general to the register of the land
office, the parties entitled to the benefit of said act may be permitted to file the proof thereof, under the instructions heretofore given, identifying the tract of land as well as circumstances
will admit, any time prior to the 30th of May next." And they
were requested to "keep a proper abstract or list of such cases
wherein the proof shall be of a character sufficient to establish
to their entire satisfaction the right of the parties, 'respectively,
to a pregmption,' &c. "No payments, however, were to be
received on account of preEmption rights duly established, ip.
cases where the townships were known to be surveyed, but the
plats whereof were not in their office, until they shall receive
further instructions."
Under this instruction, on the 28th of May, 1831, the register
and receiver held that Nathan Cloyes was entitled to the northwest fractional quarter, as stated in the bill, but rejected the
privilege of entering the adjoining fractions.
Several objections are made to this procedure. It is contended that the land officers had no authority to act on the
subject, until the surveys of the township were returned by the
-surveyor-general to the register's office ; and, also, that in receiving the proof of the predmption right of Cloyes, the lanc
officers did not follow the directions of the commissioner.
'The first instruction of the commissioner, dated 10th June,
1830, required the proof to be taken in presence of the register
and receiver, and it appears that the proof was taken in the
presence of the register only.
The law did not require the presence of the land officers
when the proof was taken, but, in the exercise of his .iscretion,
the'commissioner reqftired the proof to be so taken. Having
the power to impose this regulation, the commissioner had the
power to dispense with it, for reasons which might be.satisfactory to him. And- it does appear that the presence of the
register only, in Cloyes's case, was held sufficient. The right
was sanctioned .by both the land officers, and by the commis-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

sioner also, so far as to receive the money on the land claimed,
without objection as to the mode of taking the proof. And, as
regards the authority for this procedure by the land officers, it
appears to be covered by the above circular of the commissioner, dated 7th February, 1831. In the absence of the surveys, the parties entitled to the benefits of the act of 1830
were "permitted to file the proof thereof," &c., identifying the
tract of land, as well as circunstances will admit, any time
prior to the 30th of May, 1831.
The register and receiver were constituted, by the act, a
tribunal to determine the rights of those who claimed pregmptions under it. From their decision no appeal was given. If,
therefore, they acted within their powers, as sanctioned by the
commissioner, and within the law, and the decision cannot be
impeached on the ground of fraud or unfairness, it must be considered final. The proof of the pre6mnption right of Cloyes
being "entirely satisfactory" to the lane officers under the act
of 1830, there was no ndcessity of opening the case, and receiving additional proof, under any of the subsequent laws.
The act of 1830 having expired, all rights under it were saved
by the subsequent acts. Under those acts, Cloyes was only
required to do what was necessary to perfect his right. But
those steps within the law, which had been taken, were not
required to be again taken.
It is a well-established principle, that wherb an individual in
the prosecution of a right does every thing which the law requires him to do, and he fails to attain his right by the misconduct or neglect of a public officer, the law will protect him.
In this case the preemptive right of Cloyes having been proved,
and an offer to pay the money for the land claimed by him, under the act of 1S30, nothing more could be done by him, and
nothing more could be required of him under that act. And
subsequently, when he paid the money to the r'eceiver, under
subsequent acts, the surveys being returned, he could do nothing more than offer to enter the fractions, which the register
would not permit him.to do. This claim of pre6mption stands
before us in a light not less favorable than it would have stood
if Cloyes or his representatives had been permitted by the lhnd
officers to do what, in this respect, was offered to be done.
The claim of a pre6mption is not that shadowy right which
by some it is corisidered to be. Until sanctioned by law, it has
no existence as a substantive right. But when covered by the
law, it becomes a legal right, subject to be defeated- only by a
failure to perform the conditions annexed to it. It is founded
in an enlightened public policy, rendered necessary by the enterprise of our citizens. The adventurous pioneer, who is

334

SUPREME COURT.
Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et al.

found in advance of our settlements, encounters many hardships, and not unfreqtlently dangers from savage incursions, He
is generally poor, and it is fit that his enterprise 'should be rewarded by the privilege of purchasing the favorite spot selected
by him, not to exceed one hundred and sLxty acres. That this
is the national feeling is shown by tbD course of legislation for
many years.
It is insisted, that the preemption right of Cloyes extended to
the fractional quarter-sections named in the bill, the whole of
them being less than one hundred and sixty acres. We think
it is limited to the fractional quarter on which his improvement
was made. This construction was given to the act by the
commissioner in his circular of the 10th of June, 1830. He says,
" The occupant must be confined to the entry of that particular
quarter-section which embraces the improvement." The act
gives to the occupant whose claim to a preemption is established the right to enter, at the minimum price, by legal subdivisions, any number of acres not exceeding one hundred and
sixty. But less than a legal subdivision of a section or fraction
cannot be taken.by the occupant. It is contended, however,
that several fractional quarter-sections adjacent to the one on
which the improvement was made may be,taken under the preemptive right,.which shall not exceed in the whole one hundred and sixty acres. And the second section of the act of
14th July, 1832, which provides, 11that the occupants upon
fractions shall be permitted, in like manner, to enter the same
so as not to exceed in quantity one quarter-section," it is urged,
authorizes this view. But in the case of Brown's Lessee v.
Clements et al., 3 How. 666, this court salt, the act of 29th
May, 1830, 11gave to every settler on the public lands the right
of preemption of one hundred and sixty acres; yet, if a settler
happened to be seated on a fractional section containing less
than that quantity, there is no provision in the act by which
he could make up the deficiency out of the adjacent lands, or
any other lands."
Did the location of Governor Pope, under the act of Con.gress, affect the claim of Cloyes? On the 15th of June, 1832,
one thousand acres of land were granted, adjoining the town of
Little Rock, to the Territory of Arkansas, to be located by the
Governor. This-selection was not made until the 30th of January, 1833. Before the grant was made by Congress of this
tract, the right of Cloyes to a preemption had not only accrued,
under the provisions of the act of 1830, but he had proved his
right, under the law, to the satisfaction of the register and receiver of the land office. He had, in fact, done every thing
lie could do to perfect this right. No fault or negligence can

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

335

Lytle et al. v. The State of Arkansas et aL

be charged to him. In the case above cited from 3 Howard, the
court say, - "The act of the 29th of May, 1829, appropriated
the quarter-section of land iacontro-Versy, on which Etheridge
was then settled, to his claim, under the act, for one year, subject, however, to be defeated by his failure to comply with its
provisions. During that time, this quarter-section was not liable to any other claim," &c. And the supplement to this act,
approved 14th July, 1832, extended its benefits. The instruction of the commissioner, dated September 14th, 1$30,
was in accordance with this view. He says, "It is, therefore,
to be expressly understood, that every purchase of a tiact of
land at ordinary private sale, tq which a pregrmption claim shall
be proved and filed according to law, at any time prior to the.
30th of May, 1831, is to be either null and void, (the purchasemoney thereof being refundable under instructions hereafter to
be given,) or subject to any legislative provisions."
By the grant to Arkansas, Congress could not have intended
to impair vested rights. The grants of the thousand acres and
of the other tracts must be so construed as not to interfere
with the preemption of Cloyes.
The Supreme Court of the *State, in sustaining the demurrers and dismissing the bill, decided against the predmption
right claimed by the. representatives of Cloyes; and as we consider that a valid right, as to the fractional quarter on which
his improvement vas made, the judgment of the State court is
reversed ; and the' cause is transmitted to that court for further
proceedings before it, or as it shall direct, on the defence set up
in the answers of the defendants, that they are bond fide purchasers of the whole or parts'of the fractional section in controversy, without notice, and that that lourt give leave to amendthe pleadings on both sides, if requested, that the merits of the
case may be fully presented and proved, as equity shall require.
Mr. Justice CATRON, Mr. Justice NELSON, and Mr. Jus-,
tice GRIER dissented. (See Appendix.)
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas; and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here 6rdered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded to the said Supreme Court, for further proceedings to be had therein in conformity to the opinion
of this court.

