THE DECISIONS
O? T

E

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

MlICHAELA LEONARDA ,ALIONESTER,

THE WIFE SEPARATED

AND BOARD OF JOSEPH XAVIER DELFAU DE PONTALBA,
IN

FROI BED

PLAINTIFF

ERROR, V. JOSEPH'KENTON.

State courts have a right to decide upon the true running of lines of tracts of land,
and this court has no authoity to review those decisions under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
Where the decision was that the true lines of the litigants did not conflict -ith each
other, but the losing party alleged that her adversary's title was void under the
correct interpretation of an act of Congress, this circumstance did not bring the
ease within the jmisdiction of this court.
Nor is the jurisdiction aided because the, State court issued a perpetual injunction,
upon the losiqg party. This was a mere incident to the decree, and arose from the
mode of practice in Louisiana, where titles are often quieted in that way.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Su-

preme Court of the State of Louisiana for the Eastern District.
It was brought up upon the ground that there was drawn in
question the validity of a statute and an authority exercised
under the United States, and the decisi6n was against the validity of the said statute or authority; also, that there was
drawn in question the construction of a clause of a treaty and
of a statute 'of the United States, and the decision was against
the title, Aght, and piivilege specially claimed and set ip under
such clauses of said treaty and statute.
As the suit was more analogous to an ejectment than to any
other remedy known to the common law, it will be bept exilained by showing the title set up by the respective parties.
The first step in the proceedings was the filing of .the following petition, on December 28, 1831.
"To the Honorable the District Court of the First District of
the State of Louisiana. The Petition of Joseph Kenton,
residing in the City of New Orleans, respectfully shows :
"That your petitioner is the lawful and only proprietor and
VOL. Ix.

1

2

SUPREME COURT.
Almonester v. Konton.

owner of a tract of land situated in the rear of Lhe city of New
Orleans, between the inhabited part of the city and the Bayou
8t. Jean; said tract- having two arpents front on the southwesterly side of the Canal Carondelet, near the first half-moon,
and extending in depth between parallel lines to Common
Street, on which also it fronts; the one side line beifig seventeen arpents ten toises and two feet, and the other seventeen
arpents and five toises in length; all of which appears more
particularly by a plan of said tract of land drawn by Charles
F. Zimpel, late a sworn srveyof, dated the 11th day of February, (1835,) and deposited in the office of Theodore Seghers, Esq., notary public of this city, on which plot your petitioner's tract of land is designated as No. 3, and is marked on
the general plan of the city of New Orleans, executed and published by the said Charles F. Zimpel, ' Wdw. Fleitas.'
"Your petitioner acquired said tract of land of Jean Manuel
Fleitas, Barthelemy Fleitas, and Virginie Fleitas, wife of Louis
Aime Pigneguy, by act passed before the said Theodore Seghers, notary public, on the 19th day of May (1835).
"Your petitioner alleges, that from that period until the
present time he has had the quiet possession of said tract of
land, and that those from whom he derived title have had the
peaceable and uninterrupted possession of the same, under perfect titles, for upwards of thirty-five years.
"9Your petitioner further shows, that notwithstanding the
premises, Mrs. Michaela Leonarda Almonester, the wife of Joseph Xavier Celestin Delfau, Baron of Pontalba, separated from
bed and board from the said husband, by a judgment of the
tribunal of the first instance, at Senlis, in France, bearing date
the 25th day of February, (1836,) has, by her agent, Noel
Barthelemy Le Breton, rdsiding in this city, offered for sale at
public auction, to be sold on the 28th day of this present
month, through Messrs. Mossy & Garidel, auctioneers, a certain tract of land divided into a great number of lots, fronting
on the Bayou road and extending across the Canal Carondelet,
over the property of your petitioner, to Common Street.
"1Your petitioner further shows, that the said Noel Barthelemy
Le Breton has been constituted the general and special agent
at New Orleans of the said Mrs. Pontalba, by powers of attorney executed before Berceau and his colleague, notaries at
Paris, in France, where she resides. That your petitioner has
amicably requested the said agent to desist from this intended
sale as far as it affects 'he above-described property of your
petitioner, and would disturb him in the peaceable possession
thereof, but'he refuses to yield to said request.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

3

Almonester v. Kenton.

"Your petitioner therefore prays that a writ of injunction
may issue, enjoining the said Mrs. Pontalba and Noel Barthelemy Le Bieton, her agent, as well as Messrs. Mossy & Garidel,
the above-mentioned auctioneers, from proceeding to sell, until
the further order of the court, such of the above-mentioned
lots of ground as are situated on the above-described tract of
land belonging to your petitioner.
" Your petitioner further alleges, that the said Mrs. Pontalba
and her agent pretend title to the aforesaid property of your
petitioner, and hold out to the public that your petitioner has
no title to the same, and by their deeds and words aforesaid
have caused him damage to the amount o five thousand dollars,
which he is entitled to recover, and to have them enjoined from
ever pretending title to said property.
"Wherefore your petitioner respectfully prays that the said
Mrs. Pontalba, by her agent Noel Barthelemy Le Breton, may
be cited to appear and answer this petition, and to set forth by
what title she claims the property above described of your petitioner; and that, after all due and legal proceedings, judgment
may be rendered in favor of your petitioner against the said
Mrs. Pontalba; that the sale by her of any part of the abovedescribed tract of land belonging to your petitioner be perpetually enjoined; and that she may be moreover perpetually enjoined from pretending title to said property; that she be condemned to pay to your petitioner five thousand dollars damages, with all costs of suit; and that your Honor would afford
all such other and further relief as the nature of his case may
require, and as to justice and equity may belong. As in duty
bound, &c.
(Signed,)
IsAlc T. PRESTON, Att'yfor Petitioner."
To this petition the defendant filed the following answer.
"The Answer of Michaela Leonarda Almonester, the Wife
separated from bed and board of Joseph Xavier Celestin Delfau Pontalba, herein represented by Noel Barthelemy Le
Breton, her attorney in fact, to the Petition filed in this
Court at the suit of Joseph Kenton, of New Orleans:
"This respondent comes now into court by her counsel, and
for answer says, that she denies all and singular the facts and
allegations in the said petition set forth. And this respondent
further answering says, that the plaintiff could derive no title
whatsoever to the property by him claimed from the transfer
unto him executed by Jean Manuel Fleitas, Barthelemy Fleitas, and Virginie Pleitas, per act before T. Seghers, notary, of
the 19th of May, 1835.

4

SUPREME COURT.
Almonester v. Kenton.

"This respondent denies that the plaintiff's vendors had at
any time any good title to the property Dy them sold, or were.
ever in possession thereof.
"This respondent, on the contrary, contends that she is the
sole and lawful proprietor of the land claimed by the plaintiff,
and that she has had title to as well as possession of, the same
for
fifty-five years and upwards.
."That
this respondent further says, that the injunction sued
for and obtained by said Kenton against the sale of said property was unjust, illegal, and malicious, and has inflicted injury
to the interests of this respondent to an amount exceeding
twenty-five thousand dollars; wherefore this respondent prays
that said injunction be dissolved, at the costs of the plaintiff;
that she be permitted to reconvene against him, and have judgment for the said sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, and to
that effect that the said Kenton be cited to appear and answer
this petition in reconvejition, and be condemned as prayed for.
"And this respondent prays for all other and further relief
which the nature or equity of the case may require.
"And this respondent will ever pray, &c.
(Signed,)
SOULE,
C. DERBiGry, Of Counsel."
Much documentary evidence was filed, and oral testimony
taken in open court, all of wrhich was inserted in the record.
When the cause came on for trial, in February, 1838, the
plaintiff, Kenton, produced a Spanish grant, dated 20th of May,
1801, issued to Carlos Guardiola, by. Don Ramon de Lopez y
Angulo, the Intendant of Louisiana, and a regular chain of
conveyances from the original grantee down to himself. This
grant covered the land in dispute.
The defendant claimed title under the following documents:
1st. A concession to Louis Cezaire Le Breton, in 1752.
2d. A concession to Alexandre Latil, in 1764.
Upon the trial, the District Court decided that neither of
these concessions included the land in controversy.
The defendant then relied upon a plea of prescription which
had been previously filed, beihg a .plea of prescription of ten,
twenty, and thirty years. But the court overruled the plea for
each of these periods of time.
The case was carried by appeal to the Supreme Court of
the State of Louisiana, where the argument involved the following points, viz. :1. That the grant to Guardiola was void, because, after the
1st of October, 1800, the date of the treaty of San Ildefonso,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

5

Almonester v. Renton.

Spain was no longer the sovereign of Louisiana, and because the
14th section of the act of Congress passed on the 26th March,
1804, declared all such grants to be null and void. But the
court overruled these objections to the grant, and also decided
that the District Court was right in saying that the two concessions set up by the defendant did not cover the land in dispute, and in saying also that the plea of prescription was not
well founded.
The Supreme Court therefore affirmed the
judgment of the District Court; which was, that the injuntlon
served upon the defendant should be made perpetual.
A rehearing was afterwards granted, on the single question
whether Guardiola's grant was protected by the proviso to the
14th section of the act of Congress of the 26th March, 1804.
That section declares, ". that all grants for lands within the territories ceded by the French Republic to the United States by
the treaty of the 30th of April, 1803, the titles whereof were,.
at the date of the treaty of San Ildefonso, in the crown, government, or nation of Spain, and every act and proceeding gubsequent thereto, of whatsoever nature, towards the obtaining
of any grant, title, or claim to such lands, and under whatsoever authority transacted or pretended, be, and the saie are
hereby declared to be, and to have been from the beginning,
null and void, and of no effect in law or equity; provided, nevertheless, that any thing in this section contained shall not be
construed to make null and void any bond fide grant, made
agreeable to the laws, usages, and customs of the Spanish government, to an actual settler on the lands so granted for himself, and his wife and family; or to make null and void any
bond fide act or proceeding done by an actual settler, agreeably
to the laws, usages, and customs of the Spanish government,
to obtain a grant for lands actually settled on by. the person or
persons claiming title thereto, if such settlement in either case
was actually made prior to the 20th day of December, 1803,"
&c.
After the rehearing, the court decided that the grant to
Guardiola was embraced in the proviso which protects actual
settlers before the cession to the United States, and was also
protected by the treaty of cession itself.
From this judgment, a writ of error brought the case up to
this court.
It was argued by Mr. Brown, on the part of Kenton, the
defendant in error, no counsel appearing for the plaintiff in error. This argument was an elaborate examination of the act
of Congress, and the.other
grounds upon which the Supreme
1"

6

SUPREME COURT
Almonester v. Kenton.

Court of Louisiana rested its judgment; but as the decision of
this court was confined to a single view bf the case, it is not
deemed necessary to insert Mr. Brown's argument.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us by writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana. The suit originated in a petition
filed the 28th of December, 1836, by Kenton, in the First District Court of that State, alleging that the defendant, Pontalba,
through her agent, Le Breton, had advertised for sale certain
lots of ground in the rear of the city of New Orleans, claiming
to *own the same, which land the petitioner averred belonged
to him, and was, at the time of filing the bill, in his possession, and that it had been in the peaceable and uninterrupted
p' ssession of himself and those under whom he derived title
The petitioner therefore
for upwards of thirty-five years.
prayed that the defendant might be restrained from selling or
intermeddling with the property in -Iuestion, and that he might
be quieted in his title. IlL answer, the defendant averred that
she was the legal owner of the premises, and had been in possession of the same for more than fifty-five years. On the
trial of the cause in the District Court, the plaintiff introduced,
with other testimony; 1. A concession made by Don Ramon de Lopez y Angulo,
with the certificates -of survey, records, &c., dated May 20,
1801, granting the premises in question to Carlos Guardiola.
2. An act of sale from Guardiola to Fleitas, conveying the
property to the latter, dated June 5, 1805.
3. A sale of the land from the heirs of Fleitas to the plaintiff, dated May 19, 1835.
4. He also produced testimony to show that he and those
under whom he claimed had been in possession since the date
of the grant to Guardiola in 1801.
The defendant then introduced ifi evidence an act of sale
from L. C. Le Breton to Madame Dauberville for six arpents
and fourteen toises front, dated May 30, 1757, reciting that the
vender was the owner of the premises sold, as well as of two
arpents front adjoining the same, which he reserved from such
sale. She also presented acts of sale made in 1757 and 1758,
from Le Breton and from the succession of Dauberville, conveying the whole of the above-mentioned lands to Latil, and a
grant made to the latter by the Spanish government in 1764.
She then exhibited a full chain of title from Latil to herself,
and proved possession of the premises covered by her title papers from 1789.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

7

Almonester v. Kenton.

A. decree was made by the District Court in favor of the petitioner, Kenton, and a perpetual injunction awarded in accordance with his prayer. The cause was carried to the Supreme
Court on appeal, where the. decree of the inferior court was affirmed. Both courts decided that the premises included in the
Spanish grant of 1801, to Guardiola, were not the same as
those covered by the acts of sale and grant to Latil.
Now that this court has no jurisdiction, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, to reexamine the decision of
a State court, which drew in question the mere fact of where
a dividing line between two tracts of land was, is too plain for
discussion. Had the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana stopped here, then certainly jurisdiction would be wanting. But that court went further in its first opinion; and then
a rehearing was demanded, after the first decree in favor of
Kenton had been pronounced; and a rehearing was granted on
the single question whether Guardiola's grant was protected by
the proviso to the 14th section of the act of "ongress of March
26, 1804.
That section declares, " that all grants for lands within the
territories ceded by the Fiench Republic to the United States
by the treaty of the 30th of April, 1803, the titles whereof
were, at the date of the treaty of San Ildefonso, in the crown,
government, or nation of Spain, and every act and proceeding
subsequent thereto, of whatsoever nature, towards the obtaining
of any grant, title, or claim to such lands, and under whatsoever
huthority transacted or pretended, be, and the same are hereby
declared to be, and to have been from the beginning, null And
void, and of no effect in law or equity; provided, nevertheless,
that any thing in this section contained shall not be construed
to make null and void any bond fide grant, made agreeably to
the laws, usages, and customs of the Spanish government, to
an actual settler on the lands so granted for himself, and his
wife and family; or to make null and void any bonafide act
or proceeding done by an actual settler, agreeably to the-laws,
usages, and customs of the Spanish government, to obtain a
grant for lands actually settled on by the person or ersons
claiming title thereto, if such settlement in either case as actually made prior to the 20th day of December, 1803," &c.
And on this proviso of the statute, an opinion was expressed
by the court below, which is found in the record, and was as
follows: "The proviso above recited contemplates two classes of
titles: first, those granted according to the ordinances and
usages of the Spanish government, upon the usual condition

8

SUPREME COURT.
Almonester v. Kenton.

of settlement upon the lands so granted to heads of families,
provided such condition was complied with before the cession
to the United States; and second, such as were applied for after the settlement was made, commonly called permission to
settle with a requite. In both cases we are to look, in our
opinion, to the laws and usages of the Spanish government for
the definition of an actual settler, rather than to subsequent
acts of Congress, which provide for pre6mptions in favor of
such persons as shall have settled upon, inhabited, and cultivated a part of the public domain. This proviso recognizes
the authority of Spain to make certain grants after the date of
the treaty of San Ildefonso, and therefore it cannot be said that
Congress had treated this as eiclusively a political question,
and absolutely decided that the sovereignty was changed at
that period. The only doubt is, whether Guardiola can be
classed in either of the categories expressed in the act of Congress. He exhibits a title in form to a small tract of land,
which was appurtenant to another tract already owned and possessed by him. The Intendant of the province, in the preamble of his patent, states him to be a resident of the city, and
owner of a piece of land on the Bayou road, where he has bis
dwelling; which property is deficient in depth to graze his
cattle upon. It is for these reasons that a small additional
grant is made to him. This was done in conformity with the
existing ordinances relative to the distribution of the public
domain; Guardiola was certainly regarded by the Intendant-as
actually settled on the land to which his new grant was but an
appendage; and although the expression used in the opinion
of the court first pronounced, that the grant was inhabited and
improved, was perhaps not strictly accurate, especially with
reference to subsequent acts of Congress defining rights of preemptions, yet substantially we consider th4 grant to Guardiola
as embraced in the proviso which protects actual settlers before
the cession to the United States; and we cannot suppose Congres intended by the act in question, or by any subsequent
legislation, to declare null and void those small grants made
bordfide according to the usages of the Spanish government to
inhabitanfs of the province, to meet fhe wants.of a growing
population.
"Looking upon Guardiola's grant as one made in good faith,
according to the usages and ordinances of the Spanish government, and as having become private property according to
those laws and usages, and according to the treaties between
France and Spain, and the law of nations, we consider it protected, not merely by the proviso of-the act of Congress first
recited, but by the treaty of cession.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

9

AlImonester v. Kenton.

"It is therefore ordered, adjudged, pnd decreed, that the
judgment first pronounced remain undisturbed."
By section 909 of the Code of Practice governing the Supreme Court of Louisiana, that court is required to state-the
refsons for its judgments, by citing as exactly as possible the
laws on which it founds its opinions; and by section 912, a
party dissatisfied with the judgment may apply for a rehearing
in the cause, by petition. From the petition and opinion, it
does appear that a construction of the 14th section of the act
of 1804 was drawn in question by the State court; but it
does not therefore follow that this court has jurisdiction; the
fact is found, that no interference exists between the tracts of
land respectively claimed, and with this settled fact we have
to deal. It concluded the right against Pontalba; she could
not go beyond the boundary established as the true one by that
decision. And the next inquiry is, whether she can be heard
in this court, to call in question a construction of the act of
1804, which did not touch her paper title, nor affect her right
in any degree. The State court held that Kenton's title' was
valid, and sanctioned by the proviso to the 14th section of the
act; the decision, therefore, so far as he was'concerned, was
not opposed, but in conformity, to the right claimed under the
statute; and the defendant below, Pontalba, having no opposing title to .the land in dispute, could not be injured by the
The only plausible
opinion expressed on Kenton's title.
ground on which jurisdiction could be claimed arises from the
mode of proceeding in the State courts. The action was
brought by Kenton for slander of title, and to prevent a public
sale of land then in his actual possession, and which had been
so for thirty-five years next previous. The defendant, Pontalba, denied that Kenton had any title, and set up title in herself to the land claimed by Kenton in his petition; and by her
answer and petition, in reconvention asked an affirmative decree in her favor for damages ; thus becoming a plaintiff likewise. This is an ordinary mode of trying title in Louisiana.
Issue being joined on the right, and this adjudged to be in
Kenton, the court gave a decree in his favor, and awarded a
perpetual injunction against Pontalba, restraining her from selling the land. The injunction was a mere incident to a final
adjudication establishing a right to real property; the decree
carried with it (as against the opposing party) conclusive force,
to which nothing could be added by the award of an injunction; it was intended -to prevent any further illegal intermeddling by the other party, and was rather in executioi of the
decree than a substantial 'part of it. The awarding such writ

10

SUPREME COURT.
Irwin v. Dixion et aL

cannot, -therefore, be relied on as a circumstance giving this
court jurisdiction; and being of opinion that on no ground presented by the record can this cause be entertained, we accordingly order that it be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court -of the State of Louisiana for the
Eastern District, and was argued by .counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed for
the want of jurisdiction.

Wl.LIAm H. IRWIN, APPELLANT,

V.

GEORGE

0. DXIoN

AND JOHN

A. Dhxio.
Where a right to a public highway is alleged to be violated, and a remedy is sought
through an injunction, it is not issued, either at the instance of a public officer or
private individual, unless there is danger of great, continued, and irreparable in

jury; an, not issued at the instance of an individual, claiming under such public

right, unless he has suffered some private, direct, and material damage beyond the
public at large.

Where the remedy by injunction is sought for an injm-y to an individual, and not
public right, it is necessary also that the right to raise the obstruction should not
be in controversy, or have been settled at law. Otherwise, an injunction is not
the appropriate remedy. Until the rights of the parties are settled by a trial at
law, a temporary injunction only is issued to prevent an irremediable injury.

The principles examined which constitute a dediqation of land to public uses.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia and. County of Alexandria.
It was- a bill filed by the Dixions to restrain the appellant
.from erecting an inclosure in what they claimed to be a public
highway, in the town of Alexandria, by which the said highWay was obstructed, and the ancient lights of the appellees,
looking into the said highway, were darkened; and for an
abatement of the nuisance. The court granied a peipetual injunction, defining the limits of the highway, and requiring the
appellant to remove the nuisance.
: The material facts of the case were as follows. John Fitzgerald and Valentine Peers, on the 25th of April, 1778, received a conveyance of lot 51 in the town of Alexandria, between which and the water of the, Potomac River there wad
"sunken ground," which, on the 17th of September, 1778, was
conveyed by William Ramsay and John Carlyle, in their own

