JANUARY TERM, 1850.

213

Withers v. Greene.

articles, these subsequent acquisitions would not be bound by
it. But this is a mistake.
The instrument provides for subsequently acquired property
by either of the parties, as well as the present, and in such
cases there is no doubt but that it follows the limitations of
the settlement, the same as the property then in possession.
(10 Yes. 574, 579; 9 ib. 95, 96; 7 ib. 294; 6 ib. 403, note,
Boston ed.)
Looking, then, at the instrument as complete in its directions and limitations in the settlement of the estate, and as
presenting the case of an executed trust, the difficulty set up
against the complainants when claiming under marriage articles
disappears; for, being the beneficial owners, and vested with
the equitable title, a court of equity will interpose, and compel
the trustee, or any one standing in that relation to the estate, to
vest them with the legal title.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the court below erred in
giving judgment in favor of the defendants on the demurrer to
the bill, and that the decree should be Teversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Georgia, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the
opinion of this court.

ROBERT M. WITHERS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. WILLIAx B. GREENE,
ADIINISTRATOR OF RICHARD MAY, DECEASED.

The laws of Alabama place sealed instruments, commonly called single bills, upon
the footing of promissory notes, by allowing the defendant to impeach or go
into their consideration ; and also permit their assignment, so that the assignee
can sue in his own name. But in such suit, the defendant shall be allowed the
benefit of all payments, discounts, and set-offs, made, had, or possessed against the
Eame, previous to notice of the assignment.
The construction of this latter clause is, that where an assignee sues, the defendant is
not limited to showing payments or set-offs made before notice of the assignment,
but may also prove a total or partial failure of the consideration for which the
writing was executed.

214

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Greene.

Proof of a partial failure of the consideration may be given in evidence in mitigation
of damages.
The English and American cases upon this point examined, showing arelaxation of
the old rule, and allowing a defendant to obtain justice in this way, instead of
driving him to a cross action for damages.
Thus, where the obligor of a single bill was sued by an assignee, and pleaded that
the bill was given for the purchase of horses which were not as sound nor of as
high a pedigree as had been represented by the seller, such a plea was admissible.
It is not a sufficient objection to the plea, that it omits a disclaimer of the contract,
and a proffer to return the property. If the defendant looked only to a mitigation
of damages, he was not bound to do either, and therefore was not bound to make
such an averment in his plea.
Nor is it a sufficient objection to the plea, that it avers that the obligation was obtained from hiin by fraudulent representations, or that it concludes with a general
prayer for judgment. Pleas in bar are not to receive a narrow and merely technical construction, but are to be construed according to their entire subject-matter.
In this respect there is a difference between pleas in bar and pleas in abatement.

THis cause was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Alabama.
It was an action of debt brought in the District Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Alabama, by May,
assignee, ,pn a single bill, under seal, for the payment of three
thousandcrlollars, executed by R. W. Withers to A. B. Newsom,
a citizen of Tennessee, and by him assigned to the plaintiff.
Pending the suit May died, and Greene qualified and revived in
his name as administrator.
After some pleas which were withdrawn, the defendant filed
the following: "And for a further plea in this behalf, said defendant, by
leave, &c., says, onerari non, because he says that heretofore,
, in the year 1839, said deday of
'to wit, on the
fendant, at the instance and request of one A. B. Newsom; the
payee of the sealed note or writing obligatory in the plaintiff's
declaration mentioned, purchased of the said Newsom two certain fillies, that is to say, one dark brown filly, said to have
been foaled in the spring of the year 1835, and one sorrel filly,
said to have been foaled the 22d day of June, in the year 1837,
at and for a large sum of money, to wit, the sum of four thousand dollars, to be paid by the said defendant to the said Newsom; for the payment of which said sum, in part, defendant
gave to the said Newsom the said sealed note or writing obligatory, in the said plaintifris declaration described, and said defendant avers that said sealed note was given for and upon no
other consideration whatsoever. And said defendant further
avers, that the said Newsom falsely and fraudulently represented to said defendant, that the said fillies were raised by himself,
and that the said fillies were sound, and that the said fillies had

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

215

Withers v. Greene.

certain pedigrees, that is to say, - (the pedigrees are set forth in
the plea, but they are here omitted,) -all which said representations as to the soundness of the said fillies, as to the fact thatthey were raised by the said Newsom, and as to their pedigrees,
were false and untrue, and known to be false and untrue by
the said Newsom, and were so made, as
resaid, by the said
Newsom to deceive and defraud the said defendant.
"And said defendant further says; that he, relying upon
the said false and fraudulent representations of the said Newsom, and believing the same to be true, made the said purchase
of the said fillies. And said defendant further says, that said
fillies were purchased by him as aforesaid for their blood, and
for the turf, and that otherwise they were wholly worthless to
the said defendant. And said defendant further says, that the
said Newsom was before; and at, and hath been ever since, and
still is, a citizen of the State of Tennessee, residing three hundred miles or more from the residence of said defendant, who
then resided, and still resides, in the County of Greene, in this
State; and that said Newsom brought the said fillies from Tennessee to the residence of said defendant, in Greene County,
and then sold them to said defendant as aforesaid.
"And said defendant further saith, that he did not discover the extent of the unsoundness of the said fill'as until a
long time after said purchase, to wit, the fall after the said
purchase, when they were being trained for the turf, and that
he did not learn that the pedigrees were false until a long time
after said purchase, to wit, some time in the fall of 1839, or
winter of the year 1839-40.
"And said defendant further saith, from the time he discovered the permanent unsoundness of the said fillies as aforesaid, and the falsity of the said pedigrees as aforesaid, he was
ready, willing, and desirous, to, and would have returned and
delivered the said fillies to the said Newsom, if he had had an
opportunity so to do, which he did not; and that from the discovery of the fraud of the said Newsom as aforesaid, up to the
death of the said fillies, which happened during the winter and
spring of the year 1840, he was willing and ready to deliver
and return the said fillies to the said Newsom, as aforesaid.
"And said defendant further saith, that said fillies died, as
aforesaid, without the fault or neglect of the said defendant or
his servants; all which several matters said defendant is ready
to verify. And said defendant saith, that the said sealed note
or writing obligatory was obtained from him by the said Newsom by the false and fraudulent representations as aforesaid,
and is therefore, fraudulent and void in law; wherefore said

216

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Greene.

defendant prays judgment, whether he ought to be charged
with the said debt," &c.
To this plea the plaintiff demurred, and, in May, 1843, the
court sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment for the plaintiff in the sum of three thousand dollars debt, and eight hundred and eighteen dollars damages, together with costs.
The defendant sued out a writ of error, and brought the case
up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. John Y. Mason, for the plaintiff in
error, and Mr. Bayly, for the defendant in error.
Mr. .1ason, for the plaintiff in error.
The facts being well pleaded, and admitted to be true, it
will be insisted for the plaintiff in error, that the demurrer
should not have been sustained.
The facts constituting the gist of the defence may be thus
stated:1. The consideration of the contract on the part of Withers
was four thousand rollars, of which one thousand was paid,
and the single bill was given for three thousand dollars.
2. That the payee procured the contract by representations
false and fraudulent, with a knowledge that they were false,
and With the purpose'to defraud.
3. That, the facts being falsely stated, the fillies were wholly
worthless to the defendant.
4. That the fraud was not discovered until long after the
sale, and no opportunity offered to return them until they were
dead; and that the fillies died without fault or neglect on the
part of 'the defendant ; and on these facts the question is, Can
the plaintiff enorce the contract, as to that part of the purchase
money..which is unpaid?
The contract was made in Alabama, and the lev loci governs.
The plea, proceeds on the ground, that, as to the defendant,
there -was a total failure of consideration, but that, if the contract were not to be regarded as nudum pactum, there was a
failure of consideration to the full amount sued for and unpaid.
The statute, to avoid circuity of action, and to promote justice, authorized a defence at law, which without it could have
only been made in equity.
1. The conduct of the vendor amounted to dolum malum ad
circumveniendum, which, being proved or admitted, vitiates
all contracts, both at law and in equity. Story on Contracts,
§ 165; Ferguson v. Carrington, 9 Barn. & Cres. 59; Fermor's
case, 3 Coke's R. 77.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

217

Withers v. Greene.

To deprivq. the defendant of the benefit of this defence, it
must clearly appear that the vendee acquiesced in the contract
after he discovered the fraud. The fact of such acquiescence
must be determined on the circumstances of each case.
The offei to return the article purchased would show that
there is no acquiescence; but the party must have reasonable
time to do this act of repudiation, thereby rescinding the contract in whole. In this case it will be insisted that the fillies
could not be returned or tendered after they died, and that the
excuse is sufficient for not doing so before that event, and after
the fraud was detected.
2. It is stated by Kent, that, ," in cases where the consideration has totally failed, the English courts have admitted that
fact to constitute a good defence between the original parties
to a bill of exchange, though a partial failure is no defence."
2 Kent's Corn. 473; Morgan v. Richardson, 1 Camp. N. P. 40,
note ; Mann v. Lent, 10 Barn. & Cress. 877. "But with us a
partial as well as total failure of consideration may be given
in evidence by the maker of a note to defeat or mitigate a recovery, as the case may be." 2 Kent's Com. 473 ; Hills v.
Bannister, 8 Cowen, 31 ; Sill v. Rood, 15 Johns. 230 ; 13 Wendell, 605; Cook v. Mix, 11 Conn. 432.
With regard to the quality of goods sold, the seller is bound
to answer where he has made fraudulent representations concerning them, which amounts to a warranty in law. Seixas v.
Wood, 2 Caines's R. 48. In the English cases, where the right
to defend or to recover back money paid under contracts has
been denied, it is conceded that the vendee may sue on the
warranty or for the deceit. The leading case of Hunt v. Silk,
5 East, 449.
In Alabama the rule has been established, under their statute,
that, where "fraud enters into the transaction, it is competent
for the defendant, on proof of it, to show a defect in the consideration in diminution of damages." And that, "wherever
a defendant" can maintain a cross action for damages, on account of a defect in personal property purchased by him, or for
a non-c6mpliance by the plaintiff with his part of the contract,
the former may, in defence to an action upon his note, made in
consequence of such purchase or contract, claim a deduction
corresponding with the injury sustained." Peden v. Moore, 1
Stewart & Porter, 71 ; 3 Stewart, 98.
In the case of Peden v. Moore, the court below refused to
instruct the jury, that, if they believed that the consideration
of the note had failed to the full amount, except what had been
paid, they should give a verdict for the defendant; and ruled
19
VOL. IX.

SUPR IDE COURT.
Withers v. Greene.

that, unless a total failure of consideration was proved, they
should find for the plaintiff. The decision was reversed, and
the rule 'established, that a partial failure of consideration was
admissible in defence. See, also, Bairett v. Stanton and Pollard,
2 Alabama, 181. The nase of Peden and Moore, it is submitted, must rule this.
. The -defendant Withers, in an action against Newsom, on
proof of. the facts stated, would be entitled to recover damages
for the fraud practised. Such a suit may be maintained without any offer to return the goods sold. Fielder v. Starkin, 1 H.
Bl. 17; Patteshall v. Tranter, 3 Adolph. & Ellis, 106; Caswell
v. Coare, 1 Taunt. '566; 2 Kent's Com. 480, note.
In an action by payee against the maker of a note, it is competent for the maker, in reduction of damages, to prove that
the sale was effected by means of false representations on the
part of the payee, although the chattel has not been returned
or tendered to him. Harrington v. Stratton, 22'Pick. 510;
Parish v. Stone, 14 Pick. 198; McAllister v. Reab, 4 Wendell,
483; Spalding v. Yandercock, 2 Wendell, 431; Burton v.
Stewart, 3 Wendell, 236; Miller v. Smith, 1 Mason, 437.
It is stated by Chief Justice Mansfield, in 1 Taunton, that
thg rule which allows fraud or breach of warranty to be given
in evidence in mitigation of damages, arises from the desire to
avoid circuity of action. Under the statute of Alabama, and
the rule established in Peden v. Moore, the defence in this case
is admissible a fortiori. In Mississippi, where there is a similar statute,' the same rule prevails. Harman v. Sanderson, 6
Smedes & Marsh. 41, 42.
The modem English cases have greatly relaxed the ancient
rule on the subject of rescission of contracts for sales of personal property. Poulton v. Lattimore, 9 Barn. & Cress. 269 ;
Steward v. Coesvelt, 1 Carr. & Payne, 23 ; Percival v. Blake, 2
Carr. & Payne,, 514;' Chitty on Contracts, 463, 743, ed. 1848.
In the case of Parish v. Stone, 14 Pick. 198, and Harrington
t; Stratton, 22 Pick. 516, and in Peden v. Moore, the English
cases are reviewed, and I submit that it is clearly shown that
the technical reasons on which the decisions were founded
cannot be justified, and do not apply, where the authority to
make the defence is given, as here, by the statute. If it shall
be held that the worthlessness of the fillies sold to the defendant does not constitute a total failure of consideration, because
they were, or might have been, of -value, for the plough or
otherwise, to the vendor, and it shall also be held that the
excuse offered by the vendee for his failure to return is insufficient, he is still entitled'to an abatement. Beecker and

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

Z19

Withers v. Greene.

Beecker v. Yrooman, 13 Johns. 302,303, and cases cited;
Lewis v. Cosgrave, 2 Taunt. 2, 3. In this case the court held,
that, "as it was clearly a fraud, and a man cannot recover the
price of goods sold under a fraud, a new trial should be granted." Any defence which in England'may be made in assumpsit for the price of the goods sold may be made in Alabama,
under her statute, in a suit on a sealed bill, for the purchasemoney.
The utmost effect, therefore, which can be given to the
failure to offer to return is, that the defendant cannot rescind
the contract in toto, avoid the payment of the note in suit, and
recover back the mhoney paid, if the propeity be of any value
But he is entitled to such abatement in mitigation of damage.,
if sued in assumpsit, or by- virtue of his special plea, if sued in
debt, as the price exceeded the fair value of the goods sold.
And this conclusion entirely conforms to the principle on
which the duty to return is founded, to put the parties, as near
as may be, in statu quo. - It avoids circuity of action, and gives
to the plaintiff a fair value for his property, fraudulently sold at
a price extravagantly beyond it. The sum already pdid would,
without doubt, have been decided by the jury, if submitted to
them, to be rather more than a fair price for the property sold,
on the facts admitted in this case.
31'r. Bayly, for the defendant in error, contended that the
defendant ought to have returned or offered to return the property, and that this should have been done immediately upon
the discovery of the fraud. 12 Wheaton, 183 ; 2 Kent's Com.
480; 1 Cdmpbell, 190; 4 Mass. 402; 15 ib. 319. He who
would rescind a contract must put the other party in as good a
situation as be was before; otherwise he cannot do it. Chitty
on Contr. 276 ; Hunt v. Silk, 5 East, 449 ; Conner v. Henderson, 15 Mass. 314.
Many other authorities might be added to the same effect,
but, on a subject on which the cases are so numerous and so
entirely uniform, it will be sufficient to give a reference to a
few of them, without citing them at large. See 'Pulsifer v.
Hotchkiss, 12 Con.. 234; Masson v. Bovet, 1 Denio, 69;
Coolidge v. Brigham, 1 Metcalf, 547; People v. Niagara C. P.,
12 Wendell, 246; Barnett v. Stanton, 2 Alabama, 181, 105;
Minor v. Kelly, 5 Monroe, 272.
Moreover, this ought not to have been a plea in bar of the
whole action. The question what the fillies were worth was
one for the jury to decide. In the cases cited by the opposite
counsel, the plea went merely to 'the diminution of damages,
instead of being in bar of the whole claim.

220

SUPREME COURT
Withers v. Greene.

Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause, from the District Court of the United States for
the Middle District of Alabama, is br6ught here under the act
of Congress of 8th August, 1846, eh. 104.
The plaintiff in error, was sued in the court below, upon a
single bill for the sum of $ 3,00, executed by him on the 16th
of February, 1839, payable on the 1st of January ensuing, to
A. B. Newsom or order, and which was assigned by Newsom
to May, the testator of the defendant.
What were the grounds of defence first assumed by the defendant does not appear, and it is immaterial now to inquire.
The pleas first filed were by consent of parties withdrawn, and
by leave of court the defendant filed a special plea, averring
that the note sued on was given by him for a part of the price
of two fillies purchased by him of Newsom for $ 4,000; that
Newsom fC|."1y and fiaudnlently represented to the defendant
that these fillies were reared by himsell; that they were sound
and of a high pedigree (as is set forth in the plea) ; that the
defendant, desiring to possess these fillies for thdir blood aid
for the turf, and induced and deceived by the false representations of Newsom, paid him the sum of S 1,000 in cash, and executed the note in question for the residue of the purchasemoney; that the representations of Newsom as to the fillies having been reared by him, of their soundness, and of their pedigree, were all untrue, and all known io be untrue by Newsom
at the time of the sale ; that the defendant did not ascertain
either the extent of the unsoundness of these fillies, or the falsehood of the pretended pedigree, until during the autumn and
winter of the year 1839; that the said Newsom at the time of
the sale resided, and has continued to reside, in a different
State, and -more than three hundred miles from the defendant;
that from the time of discovery by the defendant of the unsoundness of the fillies, and of the falsehood of their pedigree,
up to the time of their death, which happened without any
fault of the defendant or his servants, in the spring of 1840, he,
the defendant, was willing and ready, and desirous, of returning
the fillies to the said Newsom, but never had an opporinnity
of so doing. The plea concludes with stating, that the nr le or
writing obligatory was obtained from him by Newsom by his
false and fraudulent representations, and is therefore void; an&
with a prayer whether defendant should be charged with the
debt. To this plea thefe was a demurrer by the plaintiff below, and the judgment of the court below sustaining the demurrer, brought hither by writ of error, this court is called on
to examine.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

221

Withers v. Greene.

Although the legal principles and inquiries involved in this
cause are to a great extent local in their character and operation, it will be found to embrace rules, b6th with respect to
pleading and to the interpretation of contracts, extending in
some respects beyond tle influence of merely local jurisprudence. The (ion tract in question having' been made within the
State of Alabama, and designed to be performed within that
State, the lexc loci contractus must justly be understood as entering into and controlling the effect of its stipulations, and
having been sued upon within the same State, the lex fori
must, in a great degree, regulate the mode of its enforcement.
By a statute of Alabama (see Aikin's Digest, p. 283, § 138),
it is enacted, "that, whensoever any suit is dependii ;n any
of the courts founded on any writing under the seal of the petson to be charged therewith, it shall be lawful for the defend
ant or defendants therein, by a special plea, to impeach or g
into the consideration of such bond, in the same manner as if
the said writing had not been sealed." By another statuto: "
provision of the same State it is declared (see Aikin's Digest,
p. 328, § 6), "that all bonds, obligations, bills single, promi~sory
notes, and other writings, for the payment of money oi any
other thing, may be assigned by indorsement, whether the
same be made payable to the order or assigns of the oblig~e or
payee or not; and the assignee may sue in his own name, and
maintain any action which the obligee or payee might have
maintained thereon previous to assignment, and in all actions
to be copimenced and sued upon any such assigned bond, obligation, bill single, promissory note, or other writing aforesaid,the defendant shall be allowed the benefit of all payments, discounts, and set-offs, made, had, or possessed against the same,
previous to notice of the assignment, in the same manner as if
the same had been sued and prosecuted by the obligee or payee
therein." By the enactment herein first cited, it is obvious
that specialties are divested of any force or solemnity at any
time ascribed to them by reason of their having a seal annexed,
and are placed, with respect to all inquiries which may be instituted into the validity of their consideration, precisely upon
the footing of parol agreements. With respect to the construction of the second provision (§ 6) of the statute above cited-,
the question has been suggested, whether the right conferred
by the first enactment, to inquire into the consideration of contracts in contests between the original parties, is extended, by
the correct meaning of the statute, to the defence allowed to
obligors at the suit of assignees, or whether obligors in assigned
bonds, notes, &c., are not restricted in their defence to transac19*

z-

222

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Groene.

tiona posterior in date to the writing itself, and forming no
necessrfy part of the original consideration, the language of the
statute,, as a.lready quoted, being this: - "' shall be allowed the
benefit. of all payments, discounts, and set-offs, made, had, or
possessed against the same" (i. e. against the bonds) "previous
to notice of assignment, in the same manner as if the same had
been. sued and prosecuted by the obligee therein."
In construing these provisions of the Alabama statute as
being in par materia, we cannot regard them as changing the
rights of the parties arising out of the contract itself, nor as
conferring new rights on others not inherent in such original
obligations, but we regard them rather as securing those rights,
except so far as they may have been legally and justly transferred.- There could be no doubt of the right to impeach the
consideration, or the right to claim the benefit of payments, setoffs, or discounts, on the part of the obligor as against his
obligee. The statute was not designed to take from the.pbli.gor any of these rights, but merely to deny to him the claim
ito discharge his obligation by payments, &c., to the original
"obligee, after he knew the'obligation to have been transferred
to another. Neither did the statute create in the assigne' any
new right varying the character of the contract itself. It conferred on him merely the rights to take by assignment, and to
sue. in his own name, - in effect, the power to acquire in the
mode prescribed an equitable title, and to prosecute that title
in a court of law. Contracts at common law, to which this
simple power of assignment is extended by statute, differ essentially from those which arise out of and are governed by the
law merchant, or from such as are placed on the footing of the
law merchant by express legislative enactment. We conclude,
then, that, in a case like the present, the obligor would have
the right to impeach the consideration for which the writing
was given, or to show its discharge by payments or set-offs
'made or existing at any time before notice of assignment, or
by discounts to prove either a total or partial failure of the consideration for which the writing was executed, accordingly as
the truth of the case would warrant either defence. This interpretation of the law we consider as accordant, not only with
the language and the rational meaning of the statute, but as
sustained by the decisions of the courts in the State whose peculiar policy we are discussing, and by decisions in other States
upon statutes containing provisions similar to those in the statute of Alabama. 'Recurring to'the latter statute itself, its terms
declare that whensoever, that is, in every 'case, in whic suits
shall be inst-tuted founded on any writing tinder seal, the per-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

22

Withers v. Greene.

-

son to be charged therewith, comprehending every and-any
person, whether he sustains a relation to an assignee or to any
other person, may impeach the consideration of the bond or
other writing (Aikin's Dig., p. 233, § 138), and then proceed
with respect to the rights and powers of the assignee to provide, that he may sue in his own name, and may maintain any
action which the obligee or payee might have maintained
thereon, previous to assignment (Aikin's Dig., p. 328, §'6);
he has the same rights and remedies which pertained to the
obligee or payee, and none other.
And first, with respect to the defence as against the assignee,
founded on the total failure of consideration, it has been ruled
under the statute of Alabama, in the case of Clements v. Loggins, 2 Alabama, 514, that, when the payeeof a note-is inquired
of by one wishing to purchase it, whether he has any defence
against it, and answers that he has none, hedoes not thereby
preclude himself from making any defence against the note
growing out of the original transaction, of Which he had no
knowledge at the time. And it will be found that the example
put by the court in this case (see p. 519) is one of total filure
of consideration. Yet this defence could never be permitted
if it is to be sought for within a narrow interpretation of the
words payments, set-offs, and discounts, - such a one as would
not embrace the true character of the transaction. Again, in
the case of Wilson v. Jordan, in 3 Stewart & Porter, it is said by
The decisions of this court have gone
the court, on p. 98, -"
far to abolish the distinction with us between the effect of a
partial and total failure of consideration" ; and again, the court
uses this language: - "Nor do we feel the least dissatisfadtion
with our former decisions, so far as they tend to place partial
and total failure of consideration on the same footing, instead
of driving the parties to circuity of action." The doctrines
ruled by the Supreme Court of Alabama are closely coincident
with those of the courts of other States, in the construction of
statutes similar to that of the former State. Thus, in the cine
of Clements v. Loggins, 2 Alabama Reports, 514, as late as 180 1,
the court, by way of illustration, refer to the cases of Bukieir
v. Stubblefield, 1 Washington, 296, and of Hoomes v. Smock,
Mbid. 390, decided by the Court of Appeals upon the Virginia
statute, a law more restrictive in its terms than is the Alabama
statute, as the former speaks only of just discounts against the
obligee, being silent as to payment and set-off, (see 3 Stat. at
Large, 379; 4 ib. 275; 6 ib. 87; 12 ib. 358, and Acts of 1795,
and of January, 1820,) and both the cases thus referred to are
instances of entire want.of consideratiori, the writings assigned
having been void ab initio.

224

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Greene.

It seems proper in this place to advert to an opinion of the
Supreme Court of Virginia, in one of the earlier cases before
them under the statute, with respect to any change which that
statute might have been supposed to produce in the relative
situations of parties ,o contracts made assignable thereby. In
the case of Norton v. Rose, in 1796, reported in 2 Washington,
the law (on page 248) is thus expounded by Roane, Justice, with
the concurrence of the whole court: - "It was not intended
to abridge the rights of the obligor, or to enlarge those of the
assignee beyond that of suing in his own name; and since it
is clear that, prior to this law, an original equity- attached to the
bond followed it into the hands of the assignee, this la, doesnot expressly, nor by implication, destroy that pi.inciple." The
same doclrine was ruled in Pennsylvania, as early as the year
1776, in the case of- Wheeler v. Hughes, reported in 1 Dallas,
27. In Pennsylvania, bonds, bills, and promissory notes were
by act of Assembly made assignable, as promissory notes in
England under the 3d and 4th of Anne, but as the statute of
Pennsylvania omitted to declare that those writings "should be
placed upon the footing of bills of exchange," it was therefore
decided that the assignee of such writing stood in the same
place as his obligee or payee, so as*to let in every defalcation
which the obligor had against him before notice of the assignment, and that the only intent of the 'act of Assembly was to
enable the assignee to sue in his own name, and to prevent the
obligee from releasing after notice of.assignment. This doctrine has been frequently reaffirmed in the same State, as will
be seen in 2 Dall. 45; 6 Serg. & Rawle, 175, and 16 ib. 20.
Turning next to a class of cases founded on what has been
denominated the partial failure of consideration, although involving bad faith, breach of warranty, false and deceitful warranties, false representations-in the procuring of contracts, such
as might in particular aspects extend to the entire rescission
of contracts, it will be seen that the Supreme Court of Alabama
have, in the construction of their statute, ruled that a defence
founded on either or on all of the facts here enumerated shall
be admissible in diminution of damages. And in allowing this
mode of defence, which seems to fall more strictly within the
import of the terms set-offs and discounts than objections
aimed at .the total abrogation of contracts can do, the courts of
Alabama have acted in accordance with those of other States in
copstruing statutes similar to their own, consistently, too, with
the principles of reason and justice adopted by modern tribunals
when acting apart from statutory provisions. The case of
Moorehead v. Gayle, reported in 2 Stewart & Porter, 224, was

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

225

Withers v. Greene.

an action by the assignee against the maker of a promissory
note, given for the price of a slave warranted sound. The defence set up was the unsoundness of the slave at the time of
the contract, as evinced by his early death and by other circumstances. The court in this case say, that, if it had been
necessary to offer to return the slave to permit this defence, yet
by the early and sudden death of the slave the vendee would,
under the circumstances, have been excused from making the
offer; and in considering the right of the vendee to avail himself of the defence, either of a total or partial failure of consideration, the court are led to compare the principle enunciated in
the case of Thornton v. Wynn, in 12 Wheaton, 183, with the
doctrine as laid down in the State of Alabama under her laws,
and with respect to the rule of Thornton v. Wynn remark as
follows: -" It was the most rigid that has anywhere prevailed
against relief by way of defence to the action at law. ' It was
doubtless adopted as a part of the system which has been exploded in this State and in many States of the Union, as well
as in several of the Pnglish courts, that a partial failure of consideration is not a defence to an action at law, brought to recover the price of the article sold, but that in such cases the
vendee must resort to his cross action, which remedy, on account of its dilatory nature and circuitous form, is by this court
and many others of high authority deemed inconsistent with
justicet.and the more correct rules of modern practice."
The earlier case of Peden v. Moore, reported in 1 Stewart &
Porter, 71, furnishes a still more full exposition, by the Supreme Court of Alabama, of the rules of decision deducible from
the law of that State. The action in Peden v. Moore was
brought to recover the amount of a promissory note. The defence pleaded was failure of consideration, payment, and set-off;
-whether
total or partial failure of consideration does not appear in the form of the pleading, and it would seem that, so far
as the form of pleading was involved, the fact of the failure being total or partial was deemed immaterial by the courts, and
was a question of proof, inasmuch as the court below regarded
as allowable, and even as indispensable, proof of total failure,
whilst the Supreme Court decided that proof of partial failure
was admissible, and that the exclusion of such proof in that
case was error in the inferior court. The defendant below
moved the court to instruct the jury, that, if they believed the
consideration had failed, except to the amount which had been
paid, they should find a verdict for the defendant. This the
court reffised, but instructed the jury, that, unless a total failure of consideration was proved, they should find a verdict for

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Greene.

the plaintiff. In reviewing the opinion of the court below, the
Supreme Court of Alabama say, - "It is our policy to avoid
circuity of action, that litigation may be stopped in the germ,
before it is permitted to put forth its branches. This idea is
most strikingly illustrated by our statutes providing for arbitration and set-off, as well as by the decisions of our courts.
Now, to permit a defendant to allege in diminution of a sum
sought to be recovered by breach of his contract, that the consideration which induced the contract on his part has partially
failed, would have the effect of making one action subserve the
purpose of two, and upon the score of convenience it must be
unimportant to the plaintiff whether his recovery is diminished,
or whether, after having recovered the entire sum, he is compelled to refund a portion of it; or, if important, the importance would consist in ending litigation, and avoiding the costs
of the defendant's action. And surely it would be more compatible with justice, to permit a party to retain that which ex
equo et bono cannot be demanded of him, and which by law he
may recover back; and more especially, when none of the great
principles of right, or the landmarks of property would be disturbed. Perhaps it may be said, that the inquiry is too complex for the determination of an ordinary jury. Not so. There
would be no more difficulty in ascertaining the sum to be deducted from the defendant's indebtedness, than in admeasuring the quantum of the damages sustained in an action for a false
warranty, or for a deceit. In either case, the jury will naturally
inquire the sum which was agreed to be paid, and to what extent the consideration is deficient; so that the obstacles to the
achievement of justice will not be greater in -the one instance
than in the other. We are entirely aware of the decisions
which inhibit the defenco even of a total failure where there is
a warranty on which the defendant may have his remedy.
These decisions doubtless proceed upon the principle, that the
warranty is a subsisting contract, and the damages sustained by
its breach unliquidated. We consider them, however, so far
shaken, if not overruled, as to leave the question open for examination. Upon authority, both in point of respectability and
numbers, it is clearly provable that, where fraud enters into the
transaction, it is competent for the defendant, upon proof of it,
to show a defect in the consideration ini diminution of damages. This qualified admission of the defence originated from
the rule, that fraud avoids the contract ab initio. In point of
justice, we can discover no sufficient reason for permitting the
defence to be set up where-there is a fraud in the transaction,
and in denying it when there is a false warranty unaccompa-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

227

Withers v. Greene.

nied by fraud. In either case, it is the duty of the jury to
graduate the plaintiff's recovery by the injury which the defendant has sustained; for the old common-law notion, that
fraud so vitiated every contract which partook of it as not to
allow of a recovery, though it but partially impaired the benefit
which the defendant expected- to derive, has been exploded ;
more recent authority only allowing it to go in reduction of
damages. The cases of Poulton v. Lattimore, 9 Barn. & Cress.
259, of Germaine v. Burton, 4 Starkie, 32, and Miller v. Smith,
1 Mason, 437, are cases in which the defendant had the plaintiff's warranty, yet this circumstance is not considered by the
courts which decided them as interposing an obstacle to the
defence !" The court, in conclusion, with respect to this de-fence, remark, -1 Believing, therefore, that the greater benefit
would result from its toleration, we are of opinion, that wherever a defendant can maintain a cross action for damages on
account of a defect in personal property purchased by him, or
of a noncompliadce by the plaintiff with his part of the contract,
he may, in defence to an action upon his note made in consequence of such purchase or contract, claim a deduction corresponding with the injury he has sustained."
These copious extracts from the opinions of the Supreme
Court of Alabama are" thought to be warranted, not only on account of the intrinsic force of the reasoning they contain, but
still more so, perhaps, from the fact that they present the best
and most authoritative interpretation of the statutes they are
meant to expound, as well as of the policy in which those statutes have had their origin. But beyond the influence and effect
of these decisions as expositions of local law, they may be regarded as coincident with the doctrines promulged by the highest tribunals of a portion at least of the States of the Union, and as
not conflicting, in principle at least, with some of the later
opinions of the English bench. By the earlier English decisions the following principles appear to have been inflexibly
ruled, viz. :- That, whenever a contract was tainted by fraud,
it ne-er could, if this were shown, be made the foundation of a
recovery to any extent, but must be set aside in toto. That in
all instances;wherein a patty was injured either by a partial
failure of consideration for the contract, or by the non-fulfilment of the contract, or of a warranty, the person so injured
could not defend himself, in an action on the contract, by proving these facts, but could find redress only in a cross action
d4ainst the plaintiff. These rules of the common-lav courts
appear to have yielded materially to the influence of common
sense and common convenience. An example of this may be

228

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Greene.

perceived in the permission given in cases where a recovery is
sought upon the principle of quantum meruit, to set up as a
defence that the plaintiff has unfairly, or injuriously, or imperfectly fulfilled his obligations towards the defendant, and that
he should in such cases recover -so far only as he could prove a
meritorious performance; admitting, in these instances at least,
the defence founded on discount or on a partial failure of consideration, or a dishonest performance. See the cases of Basten
v. Butter, 7 East, 479; of Farnsworth v. Garrard, 1 Camp. 38;
of Dehew v. Daverell, 3 -Camp. 451; of Poulton v. Lattimore,
9-Barn. & Cress. 259. In the case of King v. Boston, 7 East,
481, on a note, the plaintiff had sold a horse to the defendant,
warranted sound, for twelve guineas, of which the defendant
had paid three. In fact, the horse was not sound, and, the defendant refusing to pay more, this action was brought for the
value of the horse to recover the difference. It was proved
that the horse at the time of the sale was not worth more than
£1 11s. 6d., and that the defendant had sold him for £1 10s.
Lord Kenyon held that the plaintiff could only recover the value, and more having been paid him by the defendant, he nonsuited the, plaintiff. Caswell v. Coare, 1 Taunton, 566, was an
action upon a warranty of a horse. It was ruled in this case,
that, if the horse is not returned, the measure of damage is the
difference between his true value and the price given, which
may be shown. Indeed, the ground on which the English
judges have restricted this species of defence to cases of quantum meruit implies the admission, that there is nothing in the
character of the defence itself, with respect to express undertakings, that is inconsistent with justice or with the true obligations and duties of the contracting parties. The objection is this,
that if in suits on contracts for specific undertakings, and for
stipulated compensation, the defendant could, under the general issue, be let in to show either failure of consideration or
non-performance, the plea not disclosing eithfer ground, would
effect a surprise upon the plaintiff; but that where, as on a
quantumn,meruit, theplaintiff was to show a meritorious cause
of recovery, he must come prepared to encounter any and all
objections in conflict with the position he assumes and must
maintain. With all the respect due to the learned men by
whom this distinction is made, it may be permitted to doubt
whether it is not perhaps more apparent and technical 'than
real; for it may be asked, whether, in cases of contracts for
specific performances and for stipulated equivalents, the plaintiff is not equally bound to prove an honest performance, - such
a one as comes up to the equivalent promised by the defend-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

229

Withers v. Greene.

ant ? Indeed, it would seem, so far as danger of surprise is to
be apprehended, that where the rights and duties of parties
were set forth in the contract, and in the pleadings founded
upon the contract, there would be less danger of surprise than
there possibly could be in instances where the forms of proceeding indicated neither, but where every thing was left open
to contest at the trial.
The remarks of some of the English judges appear to be peculiarly applicable to this view of the subject. Lawrence, J.,
in Basten v. Butter, 7 East, 484, speaking of the distinction attempted between a quantum meruit and other forms of action,
says; -"
The rule laid down by Mr. Justice Buller may be a
good one, if the plaintiff has had no notice of the kind of defence intended to be set up against his demand. But even
there, if the plaintiff have previous notice that the defendant
means to dispute the goodness or value of the work done, I
think the defendant ought to be let in to his defence. For,
after all, considering the matter fairly, if the work stipulated
for at a certain price were not properly executed, the plaintiff
would not have done that which he would have engaged to do;
the doing of which would be' the consideration for the d6fendant's promise to pay, and the foundation on which his claim to
the price stipulated for would rest; and therefore, especially if
he should have notice that the defendant resists payment on
that ground, he ought to come prepared with proof that the
work was properly done." And Le Blanc, Justice, remanced,
-"
I think that in either case the plaintiff must be prepared to
show that his work was properly done, if that be disputed, in
order to prove that he is entitled to his reward; otherwise, he
has not performed that which he undertook to do, and the consideration fails. Artid I think it is competent to the defendant
to enter into such a defence, as well where the agreement is to
do the work for such a sum, as where it is general to do such
work. If a man contracted with another to build him a house
for a certain sum, it surely would not be sufficient for the plaintiff to show that he had put together such a quantity of brick
and timber in the shape of a house, if it could be shown that it
fell down the next day; but that he had done the stipulated
work according to his contract. And it is open to the defendant to prove that it was executed in such a manner as to be of
no value at all to him, or not to be of the value claimed."
It would seem, then, to be fairly deducible from the reasoning
of the English judges, from the case of Basten v. Butter, in 7
East, decided in 1806, to that of Poulton v. Lattimore, 9 Barn.
& Cress., ruled in 1829, that this defence would by those
VOL. IX.
20

230

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Greene.

judges themselves be deemed permissible, whenever it could be
alleged without danger of surprise, and consistently with safety
to the real rights of the parties; and it appears to be a deduction equally regular, that, where notice of the defence was given,
either by pleading or by any other effectual proceeding, neither
surprise nor any other invasion of the rights of the parties could
occur, or be reasonably apprehended. But however the rule
laid down by the courts in England should be understood, it
has repeatedly been decided by learned and able judges in our
own country, when acting, too, not in virtue of a statutory
license or provision, but upon the principles of justice and convenience, and with the view of preventing litigation and expense, that where fraud has occurred in obtaining or in the
performance of contracts, or where there has been a failure of
consideration, total or partial, or a breach of warranty, fraudulent or otherwise, all or any of these facts may be relied on in
defence by a party, when sued upon such contracts; and that
he shall not be driven to assert them either for protection, or as
a ground for compensadion in a cross action. Thus, in the case
of Runyan v. Nichols, 11 Johns. 547, the Supreme Court of
New York decide, that, in an action upon an attorney's bill, the
defendant might give evidence of neglect of duty on the part
of the plaintiff, if this defence was set up by plea, or after a
notice to the same effect given to the plaintiff before -the trial.
In Beecker v. Yrooman, 13 Johns. 302, it was decided by the
same court, that, in an action for the price of a chattel, the defendant may prove a deceit in the sale, and that the chattel
was of no value, and thus defeat the plaintiff's action ; or, if
the defect produce merely a partial diminution of the value, he
may show that in mitigation of damages. In the case of Sill
v. Rood, 15 Johns. 230, which was an action on a promissory
note given for the price of a chattel, the defendant was allowed,
-under the general issue, to show deceit in the sale. And it
was holden further, that a promissory note given for the price
of a chattel represented to be valuable, when in truth it was of
no value, is without consideration and void. In the case of
Grant v. Button, 14 Johns. 377, the suit was for the price of
work and labor, and it was ruled that the defendant, in order to
reduce the amount of the plaintiff's claim, might show that he
work was not done faithfully and in a workmanlike manner.
This, too, was the case of a contract for an agreed price. In
Spalding v. Vandercook, 2 Wendell, 432, Chief Justice Savage,
in delivering the opinion of the court says, - "In Beecker v.
Vrooman, 13 Johns. 302, it is settled that deceit in a sale of a
chattel may be shown in bar or in mitigation. The doctrine

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

231

Withers "v. Greene.

of the cases just cited, deduced from principles of justice and
from the beneficial purpose of preventing circuity of action,
would seem to apply with decisive influence to subjects falling
within the range of a polity, by which those doctrines were
peculiarly and authoritatively commended. We cannot doubt,
therefore, after a full examination of the questions on this record, that, under the provisions of the statute of Alabama pleaded
in this case, the plaintiff in error had the right to rely in his
defence, either upon a fraud practised on him in the formation
of his contract, or on a false or fraudulent warranty, or on a
total or partial failure of the consideration on which the contract was entered into by him, or on any payments, discounts,
or set-offs, in the language of the statute, "1made, had, or possessed by him," provided that the three last grounds of defence
shall have come into existence, and been justly belonging to
the plaintiff in error, before he had notice of the assignment 6f
his obligation.
A doubt has ben suggested as to the power of the plaintiff
in error to defend himself, by reason either of fraud or of failure of consideration, -a doubt arising, not from any want of
verity of 'the facts 'in either of those averments, but fromf the
form of the pleadings in the cause. Thus it is said, that, if he
designed to avoid the contract for fraud, he should have averred
his disclaimer immediately on a discovery of the fraud, and his
proffer to restore the property to the defendant in error, which
it is thought the plea has not done. Secondly, it has been supposed that, if a diminution of the price alone was intended, the
plea should not have concluded with averring that the writing
was procurred by false and fraudulent representations, and was
therefore void; or with a general prayer for judgment .whether
the defendant below should be charged, &c. With respect to
pleas in bar, it may be premised, that they are never construed
with the severity which is applied in testing pleas that are
merely dilatory. If, by rational intendment, they meet the
cause of action, or, in the quaint phrase of the old writers, they
are certain to a general intent, they are deemed sufficient. If
their structure merely, and not their substance, is to be assailed,
this must be done by a special demurrer; a proceeding by no
means favored, as it has rarely any real relation to the merits
of the controversy. The averments in this plea with respect
to the readiness to return the property are these: - Pirst, that
the defendant be.low resided at a greater distance than three
hundred miles from the plaintiff, and in a different State.
Secondly, that, from the time at which the defendant below
discovered the unsoundness of the fillies, and the falsehood of

232

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Greene.

their pedigree, he was ready and willing, and desirous, to return
them, and would have returned them to the plaintiff, if he had
had an opportunity of so doing, which he had not. The law
requires of no man that which is unreasonable or impracticable.
Lex neminem cogit ad vana seu impossibilia. In this cdse, the
defendant below avers his want of power to rid himself of that
which he also svers had been fraudulently imposed upon him,
and the plaintiff by his demurrer admits the fact, and the character of the fact, as set out in the plea. But it has been said,
that the defendant below might have tendered a return of the
property-by notice through the post-office, and was therefore
bound to do so. It may be inquired, whether this position does
not involve a petitio principii. Does not the averment of absolute destitution of the power to*return the property imply the
absence of all the means leading to that measure, and carry
with it the necessary inference of ignorance of the locality of
the plaintiff, or of his post-office ? .A letter directed to the State
of Tennessee, generally, or to some place more than three hundred miles from the defendant below, and in a different State,
might, and probably would, have been as unavailable for any
practical purpose as a letter addressed to the State of New
Hampshire. The plaintiff in error has averred his inability to
return the property, and the defendant in error admits the truth
of the averment. But the objection to this issue in law is
properly applicable only to that aspect of the case which places
the rights of the plaintiff below exclusively on the ground f a
total rescission of the contract. If the purchaser chose to retain the property, and either to sue upon the warranty of pedigree and soundness, or to defend himself upon the ground of
difference between the true and the pretended value of the
property, he was bound neither to give immediate notice, nor
to tender a return of the property; he would be permitted to
discount the difference between the real and the simulated
value. But here the difficulty already mentioned is suggested,
namely, that this defence is -inconsistent with the couclusion
of the plea, which says, "and: said defendant saith, that the
said sealed note or writing obligatory was obtained from him
by.the said Newsom, by false and fraudulent representations as
aforesaid, and is therefore fraudulent and void in law i wherefore
said defendant prays judgment whether he ought to be charged
with said debt," &c. This conclusion is said to call for an
entire rescission of the contract, as founded in fraud, and cannot
be reconciled with the facts previously stated as constituting a
cause for partial relief.
We have already said, that pleas in bar are to receive, if not

JANUARY

TERM,

1850.

233

Withers v. Greene.

a liberal, certainly not a narrow and merely technical construction; and we will further observe, that, if the difficulty suggested be sound, there never could be a defence in mitigation
of damages, where there should be alleged fraud in the inception of the contract, or where there should be a false or deceitful warranty, however willing the defendant might be to accept
the difference between the real and the pretended value, and
however circumstances might place it beyond his power to return the prorerty. The injured party would in all cases be
driven to repudiate the whole contract, or to go without compensation. This course, however, we have seen, is in contravention of the current of decisions which admit of the defence
in mitigation of damages. But pleas in bar are always construed according to their entire subject-matter, and will be sustained accordingly, as taken altogether, and will not be determined by a disjoining of their members, or by laying stress on
what may be immaterial. It seems, moreover, that the prayer
for judgment, or conclusion of such pleas, is not considered as
essential to their validity. Thus it is stated by Chitty, Vol. 1.
p. 558, speang of pleas in bar, "that this prayer, before the
recent rule," (alluding to the rulesof pleading adopted in England in the 4th of William IV.,) " ought properly to have corresponded with, and been founded upon, the commencement of the
plea, and the effect of the matter contained in the body of it ";
but, continues this author, "as the court would ex qfficio give
judgment in favor of the defendant aecording to the substance
of the plea, without reference to the conclusion, an error with
regard to the prayer of judgment in the conkluding part of the
plea was not material, except in the case of a plea in abatement." In the case of The King v. Shakespeare, 10 East, 87,
upon a demurrer to a plea in abatement, Lord Ellenborough
said, -" Praying judgment of the indictment means no more
than praying judgment on the indictment: and if this were the
case of a plea in bar, the court would give that judgment which,
upon the whole record, appeared to be the proper judgment,
though not prayed for by the party. But in abatement the
court will give no other than the proper judgment piayed for
by the party, and without the defendant prays a particular and
proper judgment in abatement, the court are not bound to give
the proper judgment upon the whole record, as they would be
in the case of pleas in bar." In Attwood v. Davis, 1 Barn. &
Ald. 173, it is said by Bayley, Justice, that "there is a distinction between a plea in bar and a plea in abatement; in the
former, the party may have a right judgment upon a wrong
prayer. bvt not in the latter." In the case of Rowles b. Lusty,
20*

SUPREME COURT.
Withers v. Greene.

4 Bingham, 428, upon a writ of entry, it was ruled, that the
prayer for judgment for the messuages and land in the count did
not vitiate the plea, notwithstanding the commencement of the
plea applied only to the nessuages and parcel of the land. And
in this last case, The King v. Shakespeare and Attwood v.
Davis are cited as authority.
But again, (and this appears to give a conclusive answer to
any objection to the admission here of proofs in diminution of
damages,) if we must treat this case according to the strictest
rules of pleading, it might be said that the plea averring the
note to have been obtained by fraud, which is admitted by the
demurrer, would be sufficient to entitle the defendant below to
a judgment on a declaration counting merely on the note, without regard to the question of total or partial rescission of the
original contract. And then, if the plaintiff could be entitled
to recover at all, it must be on a count on the original contract,
or on a quantum valebat for the thing sold. And this would
open the entire range of inquiry as to the character of the contract, and as to what in truth constituted the quantum valebat
on which, if on any thing, the plaintiff could found himself.
Upon this branch of the case, we think the matter averred
in the special plea of the defendant below was legitimately
pleaded tnder the statute, and with sufficient certainty and
pertinence to authorize a defence on the grounds of a false
and deceitful warranty, or of a partial failure of consideration,
and that he should- have been let in to sustain, if he could,
such a defence before the jury. We tljerefore consider the
judgment of the District Court to be erroneous, and do adjudge
that the same be reversed, and that this cause be remanded to
that court, with instructions to cause an issue to be made up
on the special plea filed by the defendant below, under the
statute of Alabama, and a venire facias to be awarded to try
that issue.
Mr. Justice NELSON dissented. (See Appendix.)
Order.
This cause came 'on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit. Court, witi instructions to cause an issue to be

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

25

Benner et al. v. Porter.

made upon the special plea filed by the defendant below, under
the statute of Alabama, and to award a venire facias de novo
to try that issue.

HiRAi

BENNER, JOSEPH B. BROWNE, AND, SALISBURY HALEY, AsSIGNEES OF ELEAZER P. HUNT, APPELLANTS, V. JOSEPH Y. PORTER.

Whilst Florida was a Territory, Congress established courts there, in which eases
appropriate to Federal and State jurisdictions were tried indiscriminately.
Florida was admitted into the Union as a State, on the 3d of Mlarch, 1845.
The constitution of the State provided, that all officers, civil and military, then holding their offices under the authority of the United States, should continue to hold
them until superseded under the State constitution.
But this article did not continue the existence of courts which had been created, as
part of the Territorial government, by Congress.
In 1845, the Legislature of the State passed an act for the transfer from the Terri.
torial to the State courts of all cases except those cognizable by the Federal
courts; and, in '1847, Congress provided for the transfer of these to the Federal
courts.
Therpfore, where the Territorial court took cognizance, in 1846, of a case of libel, it
acted without any jurisdiction.
The ease of Hunt v. Palao, 4 Howard, 589, commented on and explained.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for Florida.
It originated in the Superior Court for the Southern District
of Florida, in March, 1846, and was transferred to the United
States District Court for Florida on the 14th of May, 1847.
'On the 24th of March, 1846, Joseph Y. Porter filed a libel
in admiralty against the appellants, in the Superior Court for
the Southern District of the Territory of Florida, for the proceeds of the sloop Texas, charging that he had furnished supplies and stores to the master, at the port of Key West, whilst
the vessel was engaged in the business of wrecking.
On the 22d of May, 1846, the Superior Court gave judgment
for the libellant, for the sum of $1,223.02.
On the 14th of May, 1847, the cause was transferred to the
District Court of the United States, and an appeal prayed by
the defendants to this court.
Upon this appeil the case came up.
It was argued by Mr. Westcott and Mr. Gipin, for the appellants, and by Mr. Jones, for the appellee.
The counsel fo the appellants made three points, of which
it is only necessary*to notice the first, as the, decision of the
court turefd upon it.

