366

SUPREME COURT.
Barrow v. Reab.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said
Circuit Court, for further proceedings to be had therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

ROBERT RUFFIN BARROW, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

. JOSIAH REAB.

Ko exception can be taken in this court which was not moved below, or which does
not appear in some way oR the record below.
Formerly, the laws of Louisiana did not allow interest on accounts or unliquidated
claims; but now it is due from the time the debtor is put in default for the payment of the principal.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
Reab was a citizen of Connecticut, and Barrow of Louisiana.
The facts in the case appeared by the record to be these.
On the 5th of -February, 1845, Reab purchased, at New
Orleans, from J. R. Conner, alleged to be the lawfully authorized agent of Barrow, 35,000 gallons of molasses, at the rate
of twelve and a half cents per gallon, to be delivered at
Field's Mills on the Bayou Lafourche; said molasses being represented as the crops of two plantations owned by Barrow,
one being called the Myrtle Grove Plantation, and the other
being called the Home Plantation, or Home Place. At the
time of purchase, Reab paid to Conner for Barrow five hundred dollars.
Conner gave an order upon Barrow for the molasses, to
be delivered to Reab or order, who sent a William Patton for
it. The overseer wrote upon the face of the order, in pencil,
,"The molasses has all been shipped from Myrtle Grove and the
Residence."
On the 20th of March, 1845, Reab brought an action in the
Circuit Court against Barrow, claiming, for expenses of sending a vessel, &e., and for the rise in the price of molasses, the
sum of $ 3,755.07.
On the 22" of April, 1845, Barrow answered the petition by

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

37

Barrow v. Reab.

a general denial, and by denying specially that Conner was his
agent.
In March, 1847, the cause came up for trial, when the jury
found a verdict for the plaintiff for $3,000, with interest.
Whereupon the court entered judgment against Barrow for the
sum of three thousand dollars, with interest thereon at the
rate of five per cent. per annum from judicial demand, the
29th day of March, 1845, till paid; and the costs of suit.
In the course of the trial, the following bill of exceptions
was taken.
"Be it remembered, that on, the trial of this cause, to wit,
on the 9th day of March, 1S47, the plaintiff offered in evidence,
attached to the deposition of William C. Patton, a written instrument in the words following: " 1Mr. R. R. Barrow, or manager, will deliver to Mr. Josiah
Reab, or order, the molasses on Myrtle Grove, as well as the
production of the Home Place, or Residence, said molasses to
be delivered in casks, to be furnished by the purchaser at
Field's mills, and oblige, &c.
J. R. CONNER.'
"Upon which was this indorsement:
"'Deliver to Mr. William Patton.
"Written

-

JOSIAH R.AB.'

on the face, by overseer of the defendant, in

pencil : -

" ' The molasses has all been shipped from Myrtle Grove and
the Residence.
N. L. F. MUNROE.'
" And after the evidence had been given to the jury by both
parties, the defendant, through his counsel, requested the court
to-charge the jury, that, in order to recover damages for the alleged failure of the defendant to deliver the article sold by his
alleged agent, as set forth in the plaintifs petition, it would be
necessary for him to show that a demand in writing, or in one
of the other modes prescribed by article 1905 of the Louisiana
Code, had been made upon him for the delivery of the article
sold, by the vendee, or some person authorized, and that he had
been put in default according to the ternis of the said article
1905. Whereupon the court charged the jury, that*if they
should be satisfied that there had been a sale, and that the instrument aforesaid was a memorandum of the sale, with the
indorsement of' the vendee for the delivery of the thing sold,
and that the same had been presented to the defendant or his
authorized agent, such would be a demand in writing under
the terms of the article 1905 of the Louisiana Code.

SUPREME COURT.
Barrow v. Reab.

"To which opinion and charge of the court the defendant,
through his counsel, excepted, and prayed leave of the court
that said exception be made of record, and that he have his
bill of exception thereto; which leave was granted by the
honorable court, and this, the bill of exceptions of the defendant
to the said charge of the court, was then and there signed and
sealed by the honorable court.
[L. S.]
THEo. H. MOCAL-EB, U. S. Judge."
The defendant, Barrow, sued out a writ of error, and brought
the case up to this court.
It was submitted on printed, argument by Mr. Downs, for
the plaintiff in error, and argued orally by -4r.Baldwin, for
the defendant in error.
Mr. Downs, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the
judge erred in his charge to the jury, in this: that in stating
what was requisite to maka the demand in writing a good one,
under the 1905th article of the Louisiana Code, he ought to
have informed the jury, among other things, that they must be
satisfied that, when the demand was made, a proper tender of
the price was also made; for this is a necessary and an essential part of a legal demand, so as to put a party in default or
delay, to entitle the plaintiff to recover. This the judge did
not do, as the bill of exceptions shows. The Louisiana Code
requires this formality, as has been frequently decided by the
Supreme Court of Louisiana. La. Code, art. 1905 et seq.; 11
La. Rep. 77, 101.
IT. The court also erred (and this question is submitted as
an error apparent on the face of the record) in giving judgment
for interest on a demand for damages. Interest can be allowed
by the laws. of Louisiana only on a liquidated demand, and
not on a claim for damages. 4 Martin, 620 ; 2 La Rep. 580;
4 La Rep. 129 - 140 ; 8 La. Rep. 572.
Mr. Baldwin, for the defendant in error.
1. The only question which can be raised under the bill of exceptions is, whether the presentment of the written order, with
the indorsement of Reab thereon, to the defendant below, or
his authorized agcnt, was. a demand in writing. As no particular form of demand is required, it is difficult to conceive how
this can be denied. See Wilbor v. McGillicuddy, 3 La. Rep.
383; Kelly v. Caldwell, 4 La. Rep. 40.
Conner, who signed the order to deliver, being the agent of
the defendant, the order is itself proof that the plaintiff had

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

369

Barrow v. Reab.

done every thing necessary to entitle him to receive the merchandise. Consequently, there is no question as to the tender
of performance by the plaintiff. If any question of that kind
had arisen below, there was abundan t proof in the case that the
plaintiff had done every thing required of him, and was ready
to receive the property; but the exception is taken only to the
direction of the judge, that the presentation of this order, with
the indorsement of the plaintiff thereon, was a demand in
writing.
It ,yas not only a demand in writing, but there was a refusal
in writing, which, of course, from its very nature, relieved the
plaintiff of the necessity of any further offer or act. If there
was no molasses there, it would have been idle to have made
any further tender or demand.
The judge did not refuse to charge that a demand must be
made and a default proved. His charge is in effect a compliance with the request of the defendant's counsel, - that, admitting the necessity of a demand, it had been proved by the
production of the order.
The debtor is put in default by a tender to perform (art.
1907, Louisiana Code) and by a demand of performance (art.
1905). The bill of exceptions alludes only to article 1905, and
says nothing about the former. Hence, the instruction only
had reference to the demand,'and the tender must be implied
to have been regularly made.
2. The allowance of interest was proper. The decisions relied on by the counsel for the plaintiff in error were made while
an article of the Code of Practice was in force which has since
been repealed. That article was as follows (No. 553) :- "No
interest shall be allowed on accounts or unliquidated demands."
It was repealed by the fifteenth section of the act of 20th
March, 1839. Louisiana Acts, p. 168.
Since the repeal of that article, the law of interest applicable
to the case is found in art. 1932 of the Civil Code, as follows:
-"In contracts which do not stipulate for the payment of interest, it is due from the time the debtor is put in default for
the payment of the principal, and is to be calculated on whatever sum shall be found by the judgment to have been due at
the time of the default." One of the modes of putting in default is by suit, another by demand, &c. (art. i905.) Interest
might, therefore, have been allowed from the demand, but, as
that preceded the suit only a few days, the date of citation was
taken.
No question appears to have arisen at the trial in relation to
the interest.

370

SUPREME COURT.
Barrow v. Reab.

In Poyter v. Barrow, 3 La. Ann. Rep. 140, it was decided,
on breach. of a similar contract to that which is the subject
of the present suit, that the court may, in its discretiob, allow
interest from judicial demand. 3 Robinson, 361.
In Petrie v. Woford, 3 La. Ann. Rep. 562, the court say,"We have hitherto held that sums due on contracts bear interest from judicial demand, though unliquidated." And see
also 2 Ann. Rep. 878.
In Ryder v. Thayer, 3 La. Ann. Rep. 149, where the suit was
brought for breach of contract to ship goods, the plaintiff was
held to be entitled to recover the value of the goods at the port
of destination, with interest from the time of judicial demand.
See also Enders v. Board of Public Works, 1 Grattan, (Va.)
389, where the coutt say that, "as a general rule, the value of
the articles to be delivered, at the time when they should have
been delivered, with interest from such time of delivery, forms
the proper measure of damages in actions for the breach of executory contracts for the sale and delivery of personal property." 2 Comstock, 135.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error, in his argunient, relies on two grounds
for reversing the judgment below.
One is, that the judge should have instructed the jury that
they must be satisfied, when the demand was made, that a
proper terider of the price was also made.
But, on turning to the record, it does not appear that any exception was taken at the trial for any omission of this kind.
And it is a well-settled practice, that no exception can be taken
here which was not moved below, or which does not appear in
some way on the record below. Garland v. Davis, 4 Howard,
131, 143.
Besides this objection to the present ground-assigned for a
reversal, the presumption is, that the judge in truth informed
the jury, that a proper tender or readiness to pay must be shown,
unless waived by Barrow, or the exception would have been
taken there, and would be spread on the record. Much more is
this to be presumed, as such tender or readiness was averred in
the declaration; and its importance, therefore, was called to
mind, as well as being recognized by the laws of Louisiana..
Ferran's Adm'x v. Lambeth et al., 11 La. Rep. 77, 101.
The other exceptipn urged here is the allowance by the
court of interest on the verdict. This allowance appears on
the record, and was in conformity to the finding of the jury,
which was "for three thousand dollars, with interest."

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

371

Barrow v. Reab.

To be sure, the laws of Louisiana once provided that "no
interest shall be allowed on accounts or unliquidated claims."
(Code of Practice, No. 554; 4 Martin, 620; 2 La. Rep. 580;
4 La. Rep. 129, 140; and 8 La. Rep. 572.) But on the 20th
of March, 1839, this provision was repealed. (Louisiana Acts,
ยง 15, p. 168; 2 La. Ann. Rep. 878.) And the rule since
established, in article 1932 of the Civil Code, is, -" In contracts which do not stipulate for the payment of interest, it is
due from the time the debtor is put in default for the payment
of the principal, and is to be calculated on whatsoever sum shall
be found by the judgment to have been due at the time of the
default."
This provision has, in several cases in Louisiana, been held
to apply to transactions of this kind, -settling the law now to be
as the court below virtually adjudged; namely, that "sums
due on contracts bear interest from judicial demand, though unliquidated." Petrie v. Woffard, 3 La. Ann. Rep. 562; Porter
v. Barrow, Ibid. 140; and Ryder v. Thayer, Ibid. 149; Sullivan v. Williams, 2 La. Ann. Rep. 878; 3 Robinson, (La.) 361;
Erwin v. Fenwick, 6 Martin, N. S. 230.
Such, too, seems to be.the rule as to interest in some other
States, resting on general principles. Van Rensselaer v. Jewett,
2 Comstock, 135; Enders v. Board of Public Works, 1 Grattan,
(Va.) 389. More especially has this been considered allowable,
in England as well as this country, if, as here, interest be given
as a part of the damages for a wrongful refusal to futfil a contract. Arnott v. Redfern, 3 Bingh. 353 ; 2 Carr. & Payne, 88 ;
S. C., 1 Maule & Selw. 169; Doug. 376; Noe v. Hodges, 5
Hnrmphreys, 103; Peters, C. C. 172; Cooke, 445. But the
general practice, where no statute or usage exists to the contrary, is, not to allow interest on unliquidated damages due in
cases of ordinary contracts. Anonymous, 1 Johns. 315; 2
Penn. 652; Peters, C. C. 85, 172, 221; Colton v. Bragg, 15
East, 223; 3 Gilman, 626. Independent, however, of the rule
elsewhere, the law in Louisiana must, in this instance, govern
in respect to interest; and, as we have before shown, it sustains the course adopted by the Circuit Court.
There was one formal exception taken below, and set out on
the record, which has not yet .been noticed. The defendant
insisted, that it was necessary for the plaintiff to show a demand in writing.
"Whereupon the court charged the jury, that if they should
be satisfied that there had been a sale, and that the instrument
aforesaid was a memorandum of the sale, with the indorsement of the vendee for the delivery of the thing sold, and

372

SUPREME COURT.
Harrison v. Vose.

that the same had been presented to the defendant or his authorized agent, such would be a demand in writing under the
terms of the article 1905 of the Louisiana Code.
"To which opinion and charge of the court the defendant,
through his counsel, excepted."
But in the argument this exception did not appear to be relied on, and could not be successfully, as the sale, by the evidence, seems to have been in writing, the order to receive the
article sold in writing, and this order presented, dnd a refusal
indorsed on it, in writing.
On the whole case, then, the judgment below must be affirmed, with damages at the rate of six per cent.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District

of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages at the
rate of six per centum per annum.

ROBERT

M. HARRISON, UNITED STATES CONSUL, PLAINTIFF, V.
GEORGE C. VosE.

An act of Congress passed on the 28th of February, 1803 (2 Stat. at Large, 203),
declares that "it shall be the duty of every master or commander of a ship or vessel belonging to citizens of the United States, on his arrival at a foreign port, to
deposit his register, sea-letter, a~d Mlediterranean passport with the consul, commercial agent, or vice commercial agent, if any there be, at such port. In case of
refusal or neglect of the said master or commander to deposit the papers as aforesaid, he shall forfeit and pay.S500."
The arrival here spoken of means an arrival for purposes of business, requiing an
entry and clearance and stay at the port so long as to require some of the hets
connected with business; and not merely touching at a port for advices. or to ascertain the state of the market, or being driven in by an adverse wind and sailing
agaia as soon as it changes.
Therefore, when a vessel arrived at the harbour of Kingston, Jamaica, and came to
anchor at about a quarter of a mile from the town, but did not go up to the town,
nor come to an entry, nor discharge any part of her cargo, nor take in pas.engers
or cargo at Kingston, nor do any business except to communicatc With the consignees, by whom the master was informed that his cargo was sold, dcliverable at
Savannah la Mar, the master was not liable to the penalty for omitting to deliver his papers to the consul.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Maine, upon a certificate of division in opinion between the judges thereof.

