JANUARY TERM, 1850.

83

The United States v. Price.

dence expressed in the validity of the devise, they could hardly
have felt themselves authorized to pay to the complainant
twenty-five thousand dollars for the relinquishment of a pret6nded right. Nor could they have deemed it necessary, in
the agreement of compromise, substaritially to constitute him
the donor of the munificent bequest to the town and trade of
Alexandria.
We are to judge of this comproinise by what is stated in the
bill, the facts being admitted by the demurrer. And it appears
to us that the agreement, under the circumstances, is void. -It*
cannot be sustained on principles which lie at the foufidation
of a valid contract. The influences operating upon the mind
of the complainant induced him to sacrifice his interests.
He did not act freely, and with a proper understanding of his
rights.
The decree of the Circuit Court is reversed, the demurrer
overruled, and the cause remanded for further proceedings.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Alexandria,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, remanded, for further proceedings to be had
therein in conformity to the opinion of this court.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. ELI R. PRICE, EXECUTOR OF
JOSEPH ARcHER.
SADIE v. SAME.
Where there were joint and several bonds given for duties, and the United States
had recovered a'ioint judgment against all the obligors, and then the surety died,
it was not allowale for the United States to proceed in equity against the executor
of the deceased surety for the purpose of holdinz the assets responsible.
THESE two cases were brought up, by appeal, from the Circuit Court of the United States for East Pennsylvania, sitting
as a court of equity.
The United States filed a bill on the equity side of the

84

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Price.

court at October term, 1843, against the executors of Joseph
Archer, deceased, claiming to recover from the estate of said
'Archer the amount of certain duty bonds, or part thereof. The
two cases were alike, except that in one the bonds were signed
by Mifflin and Archer, and in the other by Mifflin, Archer, and
one Foster. This made some difference in the argument of
the cases; but the point upon ,which the court rested its decision was common to both cases, and renders it unnecessary to
notice this difference further.
There was no controversy about the facts in the case. which
were these.
In 1828, James L. Mifflin was the owner and importer of
three invoices of goods by the ship Nassua, from Canton, to the
port of Philadelphid, and said Mifflin duly entered them in the
custom-house. Bonds to the United States for the payment of
the duties, under the then existing law, were executed by the
said James L. Mifflin, the owner and importer, as the principal
debtor, and William Foster and Joseph Archer as sureties.
The bonds were joint and several, and in the usual form.
In 1829, the United-States obtained judgments against all
the obligors (Mifflin, Foster, and Archer, then living) in these
bonds, upon their joint responsibility, in a suit at law in the
District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania. The judgments were against them jointly, and
no process issued against them severally at any time.
In 1840, William Foster, a co-defendent in the judgments
and a co-security in the original bonds, after his release by the
United States (1833), died insolvent.
On September 28, 1841, Joseph Archer, the-co-defendent in
these judgments and a co-security in the original bonds, died,
and his executor is the defendant in this proceeding in equity.
James L. Mifflin, a co-defendelt in these judgments and the
principal in the original bonds, was surviving at the date of the
filing of this bill and the decree.
The bill, after setting forth the execution of the bonds by
Mifflin and Archer, and the recovery of the judgments against
them, charges that Mifflin, at the time, and long before the
death of Archer, was utterly insolvent and unable to pay his
debts; that he had been discharged as an insolvent debtor under the insolvent acts of Pennsylvania, before the death of
Archer, and since that event he had been discharged as a bankrupt, under the act of Congress passed in 1841, to establish a
uniform system of bankruptcy throughout the United States.
The bill further charges that Archer, in his lifetkiie, and at the
time of his decease, being seized of real estate and possessed

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

85

The United States v. Price.

of a very corisidera~le personal estate, made his last will, and
departed this life on the 24th of September, 1841, leaving the
same unrevoked, and appointing the defendant his executor, as
set forth in the bill. And the complainants aver that the whole
of the principal sums, with arrears of interest, and costs of the
said bonds and judgments, are still due and payable to the
United States, and that by law and equity they are entitled to
be paid out of the assets of Archer's estate, in preference to all
other creditors, legatees, or devisees, and charge that the executor has been selling and disposing of the estate, and wasting the
same, to their injury and loss, and in derogation of their rights.
After certain ipterrogatories, the United States therefore pray,
that an account may be taken of the amount due them for
principal, interest, and costs; and'also an account of the personal estate of the testator, which came to the hands of Price
and Bispham, as executors, and to the hands of Price since the
discharge of Bispham as executor; and that they 'shall be decreed to pay to the United States what shall appear to be due
and owing to them out of the testator's personal estate, in a due
course of administration. And in case the same shall be insufficient for the purpose, then, out of the real estate of which the
testator died seized, to make good any such deficiency; and
that the right of the United States to a preference in payment
out of the said assets, estate, and effects, and the proceeds
thereof, may be decreed and established,- and for further relief.
The answer admitted the execution of the bonds, and averred that Mifflin was principal and Archer surety. It admitted
also the stfficiency of assets and the facts stated above, submitting the case to the judgment of the court upon them.
In October, 1846, the cause came- on to be heard upon bill,
answer, and exhibits, when the Circuit Court dismissed boh
bills.
An appeal from this decree brought the cases up to this court.
They were argued by Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General), for
the appellants, and by Mr. Miles, for the appellee.
Mr. Johnson, for the United States, made several points, but
as the decision of the court turned upon a single one, it is only
necessary tW notice that one, Viz. :II. That the bonds were several as well as joint, and each
obligor was therefore responsible for the whole debt; and that
the joint judgments upon the bonds did not, for the ptirposes of
the present cases, take from the United States the right to consider the estate of Archer as responsible for the whole debt,
which, they could have done before judgments United States
VOL. IX.

8

86

SUPREME COURT.
The United States

,.

Price.

v. Cushman, 2 Sumner, 434, and cases therein cited; Jackson
v. Thorpe, 2 Younge & Collyer, 562.
Mr. Miles, for the appellee, made the following points: 1. The judgment having been obtained against the obligors
jointly, the severalty of the original obligation is determined
by the act of the plaintiffs, and the bond is merged in the
judgment, If two or more are bound jointly and severally,
the obligee may elect to sue on either the joint or several obligation, and if he elects the former, and proceeds to judgment,
he cannot afterwards proceed on the latter.
"It is at the election of the obligee to consider such a bond
either as a joint or several one."
Pitman on Principal and Surety, 85; Higgens's case, 6
Coke, 44; Putt v. Rawsterne, Poll. 641; Brown v. Wootten, 2
Vent. 348 ; Minor- v. Mechanics' Bank, 1 Pet. 73 ; Downey v.
Bank, 13 S. & R. 288; Walter v. Ginrich, 2 Watts, 204;
Reed v. Garvin's Ex., 7 -S. & R. 355; McFall v. Williams,
2 S. & R. 280; Stoner v. Strornan, 9 Watts & S. 88; U.
States v. Thompson, 1 Gilpin, 622 (case of duty bonds); Kennedy v. Carpenter, 2 Wharton, 364; U. States v. Cushman, 2
Sum. 310; 1 Saund. 291, note; Cro. Jac. 73; 1 Chit. P. 35;
Com. Dig., Artion, K. 4; 5 Bac. Abr., Obligation,D. 4; 3 T.
R. 782; Hurlstone on Bonds, 98; 2 Lev. 228; 1 Yes.
B. 65.
I Per C. J. Tilghman :
" A joint and several obligation
may be proceeded on either as a joint oi several contract, at the
choice of the obligee. Having treated it as joint, he cannot
afterwards consider it several." This, although but one be
served, and judgment against him only.
Per Kennedy, J. : - " It cannot be questioned that the judgment obtained against the obligors, in an action brought against
them jointly, merged the bond, so that no subsequent action
against the obligors, either jointly )r severally, could be maintained thereon."
This doctrine is impliedly admitted by Mr. Justice Story, in
the Proceeding at law before him.
2. The result of this is: 1. The bond being merged in the joint judgment, the plaintiffs' up to the time of its rendition, had "a remedy in law."
That remedy continues against the survivor. Hence no equity
jurisdiction.
2. If it were that an obligee, who has obtained a joint judgment against all the obligors, might afterwards sue them or
their representatives severally, the plaintiffs have a "remedy at

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

The United States

87

V.Price.

law," and cannot invoke the aid of a court of equity. The
basis of the bill is, that the plaintiffs have no remedy at law.
3. On the rendition of the joint judgment, Mifflin and Archer
stood in the relation.of joint contractors or judgment debtors,
with all the incidents thereto appertaining in law and equity.
Among them are, 1. Acceptance of a judgment against one; a discharge of the
others.
2. Release of one discharges all.
3. The death of one joint debtor discharges his estate (except by statutory lien on real estate, which is not the case
here), casts the burden on the survivors, and the remedy at law
is only against the survivors.
4, Other matters occurring after the rendition of the judgment (see propositions, whic follow), discharged the right
against the ,estate of Joseph Archer, and for want of right there
was no remedy either in law or equity.
At law, the death of Joseph Archer, a co-debtor in the joint
judgment, after its rendition, discharged his assets, and no action at law lay against his executor, upon the bond, being
merged in the judgment, or upon the judgment itself, the only
proceeding at law being against the surviving defendant therein.
1. The plaintiffs' bill impliedly assumes this as to the remedy, or otherwise they could not come into equity at all.
2. The plaintiffs' right in law against the assets of the decedent is ipsofacto by the death defeated. And to this point
are all the authorities.
Per Kennedy, J.:
"That one of two joint debtors dying
is thereby discharged, both in person and estate, at law, from
the payment of the debt, is too well established to be controverted.". (Only exception, case of special lien on lands,
post.)
U. States v. Cushman, 2 Sum. 310; Reed v. Garvin's Em, 7
S. & R. 357; Lompton v. Couingwood, 4 Mod. 315; 4 How.
77; Kennedy v. Carpenter, 2 Whart. 364; Towers v. Moor,
2 Yern. 99; Foster v. Hooper 2 Mass. 572; Lang v. Keppele,
1 Binn. 123; Smart v. Edson, Lev. 30; 2 Saur lers, 5.1, AA8,
a, note 4; Thomas Raymond, 26; 1 Sid. 238; Stat. West.
2d; Stiles v. Brock, 1 Barr, Pa. St. Rep. 215, and all the cases
collected therein as to special lien on malty by judgment, created by statute.
Note. - There is a class of cases which do not interfere with
this proposition, and are clearly distinguishable. These are to
the effect, that, where a joint judgment is obtained hgainst more
than one defendent, - and by statutes in England and many of

88

SUP.REME COURT.
The United States v. Price.

the United States, such judgment is a specific lien on'the lands
or realty of all the defendants, for various periods, - in such case
a scirefacias may be issued, to have execution of the lands of
a deceased defendant in the hands of executors, terre-tenants,
heirs, or devisees, byforce of the special statutory provision.
This may be coupled with a scire facias, to have execution
against the goods of the .surviving defendants; but the personalty and general-assets or estate of the deceased defendant are
discharged by his death.
In the present case there was no such specific statutory lien.
There was no real estate of Joseph Archer deceased to bind by
lien by the judgment in which he was a joint defendant at the
time of his decease.
This is a case purely of general assets, and personalty unfettered by any statutory lien, and wholly subject to the general
rule, as set forth in this proposition.
In equity, the right and remedy are extinguished, as well as
at law, against the estate and assets of Joseph Archer deceased,
by reason of his (a joint debtor and surety's) death.
1. In general, if the rigbt against 'decedent's estate is discharged at law, it must be n equity, because equity creates no
other right in favor of a claimant, or liability on the part of
those against whom the claim is made, than *exists by general
law. The distinction between law and equity merely applies
to the remedy or its form, and not to rights or duties.
2. But what is conclusive, Joseph Archer was a mere surety,
in no wise personally benefited by the consideration of the
original transaction, bound only by the original bond and the
judgment thereon, who was under no moral obligation to pay;
there being no question (in the sense of equity) of accident,
fraud, pr mistake, and the legal liability of his estate was gone.
The pleadings in this case assume these as facts.
The acts of Congress distinguish between principal and
surety, both before and after judgment against them.
After the judgments (rendered in 1829), the plaintiffs recognized, by the release" of Foster in 1833, Archer as a mere
surety.
Independent of this, and the provisions of the acts in general, the relation of the principal and surety, after judgment,
exists as to third persons.
In such case, then, equity will give no relief against the representatives or the estate of the deceased surety, and .so are
all the authorities, except the hastily considered Circuit case
in 2 Sumner. Common'wealth v. Haas, 15 S. & R. 252; Potts
v Nathans, 1 Watts & Serg. 158,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

89

The United States v. Price.

In Hunt v. Rousmanier, 1 Peters, 16, (referring to a class of
cases hereinafter mentioned,) the court s,y,"Equity has afforded relief against the representatives c" a deceased obligor
in a joint bond given for money lent to both the obligors, although such representatives were discharged at law. The
principle upon which these cases manifestly proceed is, that,
the money being lent to both, the law raises a promise in both
to pay, and equity considers the security of the bond as being
intended by the parties to be coextensive with this implied
contract by both to pay the debt."
In Waters v. Riley, 2 Harr. & Gill, 310, the Court of
Appeals of Maryland say that the rule is, "When the remedy
at law is gone, chancery will not revive it, in the absence of
any accident, fraud, or mistake; to which the case of a bond
where all are principals has been held to be an exception, each
being equally benefited, and under an equal moral obligation
to pay the debt, independent of the bond, to which equity relates back, when the remedy on the bond at law is gone. But
in case of a surety who is bound only by the bond itself, and
is not under the same moral obligation to pay, equity will not
interfere to charge him beyond his legal liability."
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, per C. J. Tilghman,
say, of all the cases cited in reference to this question, "So far
from establishing any principle by which the estate of the deceased obligor, a bare security, can be charged in equity, they
rather prove that it should be discharged, because in none of
them has the estate of the obligor who died first been charged,
unless he might fairly be considered as a principal, who derived
benefit from the money for which the bond was given, thus
establishing a distinction between principal and security."
Weaver v. Shryrock, 6 S.& R. 266. (Equity principles were
always a part of the law of Pennsylvania, administered through
common law forms.) Same point. "The obligation between
C. & B. to the bank being joint, it cannot be questioned but
that at law the obligation at the death of C.. survived against
B., and the estate of C. became thereby discharged from all
liability on account of it. Had C. derived any benefit or advantage by having received the money, or any portion thereof,
the bank might then have had a claim in equity, &c. But
C. & B. appear to have derived no advantage whatever from
the advancement of the money or creation of the debt, and are
therefore in equity as mere sureties; consequently the bank
can have no claim, founded upon equitable principles, against
the estate of C., after his death, for the payment of the money."
Kennedy v. Carpenter, 2 Whart. 361, and the cases therein re8*

90

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Price.

viewed. Same point. "A well-considered case," says C. J.
Tilghman, in Weaver v. Shryock. The decree of the chancellor, who had granted relief to the obligee against the executor of the deceased obligor, the survivor being insolvent, was
reversed in the Court of Appeals of Virginia. Harrison v.
Field's Executors, 2 Wash. 136.
Bearing in mind the distinction in case of joint debts between the principal, who had consideration and-advantage, and
the estate of a deceased mere surety, who in his lifetime had
none, all the-cases (with a single exception) are confirmatory
of this proposition in principle. Story's Eq. % 162, 163, 164,
676; Primrose v. Bronl. y, 1 Atk. 90; Simpson v. Vaughan,
2 Atk. 31; Bishop v. Church, 2 Vesey, 101, 371; Devaynes
v. Noble, 1 Meriv. 568; Sumner v. Powell, 2 Meriv. 36.
See the English cases to the point all well collected in Pitman on Principal and Surety, 91 (Law-Lib., Am. ed. 74). The
author says, "No case has hitherto occurred where equity has
varied the legal effect so as to charge the surety."
An isolated case stands in opposition to all the rest, and it is
suggested that it was not well considered at Circuit. The
learned judge, in his Commentaries, also says, "If one of the
sureties dies, the remedy at law lies only against the surviving
parties ; but in equity it may be enforced against the representative of the deceased party, and he may be compelled to
contribute to the surviving surety, who shall pay the whole
debt." U. States v. Cushman, 2 Sumner, 430, &c.; 1 Story's
Eq. Jur. §§ 475, 497.
The Suprenie Court of Pennsylvania, in commenting on this
passage say, "In support of this, he (the learned Judge) refers
to Primrose v. Bromley. By the term 'suretiesI here, joint
debtors are merely meandt, such as had all derived a benefit
from the -debt, and therefore were bound in equity, on account
of the beneficial consideration, while living, to pay it; it could
not have been used for the' purpose of distinguishing mere
stireties from those for whose benefit the debt was created.
The authority will not- support any other meaning than that
now suggested." And so of the authorities relied on in United
States v. Cushman; all were cases of principal debtors. Kennedy v. Carpenter, 2 Whart. 364; 1 Atkyns, 69.
31r. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the Court.
As the decision of one of the points raised in these cases
will rule them both, it will be unnecessary to notice the others.
The complainant seeks a remedy in equity against the assets
of a deceased surety, in certain bonds given for duties. The

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

91

The United States v. Price.

bonds were joint and several, but a joint judgment had been
recovered on them against all the obligors. The principal in
the bond survives, but is insolvent.
The question for our consideration will, therefore, be,
whether a court of equity will interfere to give a remedy
against the personal assets of a deceased surety, when the
remedy at law has been lost by the election of the obligee to
take a joint judgment on a joint and several obligation.
The obligation of suretyship arises only from positive contract. This contract is construed strictly both at law and
equity, and the liability of the surety cannot be extended by
implication beyond the terms of his contract. If he contracts
jointly with his principal, it is a legal -consequence known to
all the parties, that his personal estate will be discharged in
case he should die before his principal. Such being the law,
it may be considered as a part of the written condition of the
bond. And equity will not interfere to extend the liability, as
against his estate, on the ground that such discharge arises
from the mere technicalities of the law.
So, where a surety enters into a joint and several obligation
with his principal, the obligee and all the parties are supposed
to be aware of the doctrines of law connected with such securities, and to incorporate them therein, as part of the contract.
The obligee knows that this bond will entitle him to either a
joint or several judgment, at his election ; he knows also that
he cannot have both, that his bond is extinguished by his
judgment, or merged in it, as a security of a higher nature,
and he knows that, if he elects to take a joint judgment, and
neglects to have execution levied in the lifetime of the surety,
his personal estate will be discharged at lak-.
Assuming, as we have a right to do, that these known and
established principles of law form a part of the written conditions of' the bond, it is not easy to perceive how a chancellor
could ihterpose in the latter case, more than in the former,
without disregarding the terms of the contract, and extending
the liability of the surety beyond the letter and spirit of his
bond.
It is true that, in cases of fraud, accident, or mistake, equity
will relieve as well against the surety as the principal. Thus,
in case of a lost bond, equity will set it up~against a surety, or
where a bond has been made joint, instead of joint and several, by mistake of a scrivener; but it will require a very clear
and strong case where a surety is concerned. (3 Russell, 539.)
On the contrary, where the parties are joint debtors, and
there is no surety in the case, equity will reform the bond, on

92

SUPREME COURT.
The United States ). Price.

the mistake presumed from the fact that both are bound in
conscience to pay, and therefore intended to bind themselves
severally.
In the present case, we have no allegation of fraud, accident,
or mistake. The bill assumes that the legal liability of the
surety is gone,ty coming into equity for relief, and it shows
affirmatively, that the loss of legal recourse to the assets of the
surety has resulted from the voluntary election of the obligee
to extinguish the several remedy on his bond, without any allegation of mistake or surprise.
"If the obligee of a joint bond by two or more agree with
one obligor to release him, and do so, and all the obligors are
thereby discharged at law, equity will not afford relief against
the legal consequences, although the release was given under a
manifest misapprehension of the legal effect of it, in relation to
the other obligors." (Hunt v. Rousmaniere's Adm., 1 Peters, 1.)
If equity would not interfere in such a case to revive the
legal obligation, even as against the principal debtor thus unwittingly released, it is difficult to perceive on what principle
it should interpose to revive an extinguished remedy against a
surety who is not bound beyond his legal liability, and who
has been discharged therefrom by the voluntary act of the
obligee, without any allegation of surprise or misapprehension'
of the law.
That equity will not hold a surety liable, where he is discharged at law, seems to be well settled both in England and
inthis country, as a reference to a few of the decisions on this
subject will fully show. In Wright v. Russel, 3 Wilson,
530, it is said, C" that courts of equity are favorable to sureties, and where they are not strictly bound at law, equity will
not bind them." And in Simpson v. Field, 2 Ch. Cas. 22, it
was held, "that, where a surety is not bound at law, he will
not be made liable in equity." In the case of Waters v. Riley,
2 Harris & Gill, 310, the Court of Appeals of Maryland say,
"'A surety is bound only by the bond itself, and is not under a
moral obligation to pay; equity will not therefore interfere to
charge him beyond his legal liability." The same doctrine is
established by the Court of Appeals of Virginia, ia Harrison
v. Field's Ex., 2 Washington, 136, and by the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, in Weaver v. Shryock, 6 S. & R. 206,
and Kennedy v. Carpenter, 2 Wharton, 361..
The only case which asserts a contrary doctrine is that of
United States v. Cushman, 2 Sumner, 426.
Although, as a Circuit decisioh, it is not binding in its authority updn this court, yet, proceeding from so eminent a

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

93

The United States v. Price.

judge, it is entitled to high respect. The case is precisely parallel with the present in all its circumstances, and the positions
there assumed have been urged upon the court in this case, as
sufficient to entitle the appellant to a decree in his favor. The
opinion of the court in that case, and the argument of the
learned counsel for appellant in this, are based on the two following propositions, to neither of which is this court prepared to give its assent.
1st.; "That when a party enters into a joint and several obIigation, he in effect agrees that he will be liable to a joint and
a several action for the debt ; and if so, then a joint judgment
can be no bar to a several suit: that by electing a joint suit, the
obligee does not waive his right to maintain a several suit; and
that a joint judgment is not per se a satisfaction of a joint and
several contract."
2d. "That even if the joint judgment could be treated at
law as a merger of the several obligations, so far from that
constituting a ground in equity to refuse relief against the assets of the deceased party, it furnishes a clear ground for its
interference; for it is against conscience, that a party who has
severally agreed to pay the whole debt should, by the mere accident of his own death, deprive the creditnr of all remedy
against his assets."
1st. The first of these propositions proves too much for the
case. For if the surety is still liable at law, the complainant
has made no case for relief in equity. But the cases cited in
support of it, viz. Higgens's case, 6 Coke, 44, and Lechmere v.
Fletcher, 1 Crompton & Meeson, 623, will not sustain the
doctrine stated in this proposition. They establish this position
and nothing more, viz. That, in case' ,of a joint bond, a
judgment against one joint contractor would be a bar to an action against another; but if two are bound jointly and severally,
and the obligee has judgment against one of them, he may yet
sue the other." The case of Sheehy v. Mandeville, 6 Cranch,
253, in this court, although sometimes criticized and doubted in
other courts, goes no farther than to decide, that, where one
partner is sued severally on a joint or partnership contract, and
judgment obtained against him, it is no bar to a suit against
the other, because this contract was not merged in the judgment, and because the first judgment was founded on a several,
not a joint, promise.
But these cases give no countenance to the assertion, "that
a joint judgment is not per se a satisfaction of a joint and several bond." The law on this subject is too well settled to admit of a doubt, or require the citation of authorities, that, if two
"

94

'SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Price.

or more are bound jointly and severally, the obligee may elect
to sue them jointly or severally. But having once made his
election and obtained a joint judgment, his bond is merged in
the judgment, quia transitin rem judicatam. It is essential to
the idea of election that a party cannot have both. One judgment against all or each of the obligors is a satisfaction and extinguishment of the bond. It no longer exists as a security,
being superseded, merged, and extinguished in the judgment,
which is a security of a higher nature. The creditor has no
longer a remedy, either at law or in equity, on his bond, but
only on his judgment. The obligor is no longer bound by the
bond; but by the judgment, it has become the evidence of his
indebtedness, and the measure of his liability.
2d. The second proposition repudiates the doctrine of courts
of equity, that, where a surety is not bound at law, he will not
be made liable in equity. It does not controvert the well settled principle, that, where the bond is joint only, the personal
assets 'of the surety will be discharged by his death, but asserts
that his conscience is affected because his bond was originally
both joint and several. But if it is not against conscience that
the estate of a surety should be released by his death, when
his undertaking was originally joint only, it is hard to apprehend how it becomes so, when the obligee, having a choice of
both securities, elects to hold the surety bound jointly, and not
severally.
If a surety is under no moral obligation to pay, where he is
nbt legally bound by his contract, his conscience cannot be
reached, when the law discharges him from his obligation.
The law, as we have before stated, makes a part of every contract; and in case, of a joint and several bond, the contract of
the parties is, that the estate of the surety shall be discharged
by his death, if the obligee elect to hold him jointly, and not
severallr, liable. So that, in the present case, it is the obligee
who is acting against conscience, because he seeks to hold the
surety liable, contrary to their contract.
"No case can be-found in the books," says a learned author,
(Pitman on Principal and Surety, page 92, note,) "where equity has varied the legal effect of the instrument so as to charge
the surety." To give a remedy against the estate of a gurety
after it is discharged at law, and by the election of the obligee,
would be varying the legal effect of his contract in a most material point.

The cases cited in support of the second proposition will be
found on examination to have no bearing- on the point now
under consileration. They are too numerous to be severally

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

95

The United States v. Price.

noticed. They may all be found collected in 1 Story's Equity,
§ 162, in note, commencing with Simpson v. Vaughan, 1 Atk.
31, and ending with Thorpe v. Jackson, 2 Younge & Collyer,
562, and Wilkinson v. Henderson, 1 Mylne & Keen, 582. They
chiefly refer to cases of partnership, and other joint debtors
whose liability at law is joint only, but equity administers relief as against the estate of the deceased partner or joint debtor
on account of the moral obligation of each to pay the debt, and
because they have received a benefit from the transaction.
The doctrine of these cases is clearly stated by Sir William
Grant in the case of Sumner v. Powell, 2 Merivale, 35.
"Where," says he, "the obligation exists only in virtue of the
covenant, its extent can be measured only by the words in
which it is conceived. -A partnership debt has been treated in
equity as the several debt of each partner, though at law it is
only the joint debt of all. But there all the partners have had
a benefit from the money advanced or the credit given, and
the obligation of all to pay exists independently of any instrument by which the debt may have been secured; so, where a
joint bond has been in equity considered as several, there has
been a credit given to the different persons who have entered
into the obligvtion. It is not the bond that first created the
liability."
"It is for this reason," says Mr. Justice Story (Equity Jurisprudence, § 164), "that equity will not reform a joint bond
against a mere surety so as to make it several against him, on
the presumption of a mistake from the nature of the transaction."
When an obligee takes a joint and several bond, he has nothing to ask of equity; his remedy is wholly at law. If he elects
to take a joint judgment, he voluntarily repudiates the several
contract, and is certainly in no better situation than if he had
originally taken a joint security only; equity gives relief, not
on the bond, for that is complete at law, but on the moral obligation antecedent to the bond, when the creditor could have
had no remedy at law.
An obligee who has a joint and several bond, and elects to
treat it as joint, may sometimes act unwisely in so doing, but
his want of prudence is no sufficient plea for the interpositioxf
of a chancellor. Nor can the conscience of a mere surety be
affected, who, having tendered to the obligee his choice of
holding him jointly or severally liable, has been released at
law by the exercise of such election.
The decree of the Circuit Court is, therefore, affirmed.

96

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Price.

Mr. Justice McLEAN and Mr. Justice WOODBURY dissented.
Mr. Justice WOODBURY.
The leading question in this case is, whether, after the recovery of a joint judgment on a joint and several bond, and
the death of one of the obligors happening, who was a suretA
a court of equity will sustain a remedy against his property in
the hands of his executor.
The safety of the government, having. such numerous sureties ond official bonds, depends so much on their liability in all
proper cases, that the technical discharge of them on objections not reaching the merits is a great and growing evil.
The public, too, in the individual dealings of many on the
strength of the security furnished by others than the principal
debtor, have a deep interest in preventing their discharge without a full satisfaction of the debt.
I must be excused, then, for stating some of the reasons and
authorities 'why it is not in my power to concur in the judgnjent just pronounced, discharging the executor of the surety
to the government, without making'any payment whatever of
the debt. It is conceded by me, that, in case of a debt entirely
joint, if one of the obligors die, it is a rule in a court of law,
that "his executor is totally discharged, and the survivor or
survivors only chargeable." 2 Howard, 78; 2 Sumner, 368 ;
Bac. Abr., Obligations,D. 3; Erwin v: Dundas, 4 Howard, 78;
2 Wharton, 361, in Kennedy v. Carpenter, and cases cited
there; 2 Harr. & Gill, 313; Rogers v. Danvers, 1 Mod. 165;
1 Freeman, 127. This, however, is the rule at law, and
is not, in all cases, the same in equity. Even at law, the
objection is purely technical, and arises only on account of the
want of a remedy there against the estate of the deceased, and
not because the debt itself has been satisfied; and so strong is
the justice of still enforcing it at'law without a resort to equity,
that the statutes of many States have expressly made provision for collecting a debt against the estate of all joint debtors
when it has never yet been paid by either. See United States
v. Cushman, 2 Sumner, 312, and 2 Gill & Johns. 316. But
in-time, without any statute, courts of chancery gave relief
in this class of joint contracts by allowing a remedy in certain instances; and though this was at first refused (2 Brown,
Oh. 276), and was granted at last with some hesitahcy, it has
become the ordinary practice to allow it, when the original indebtedness or liability, though now in forni joint, was on any
account, or in any'just view, general no less than joint.

JANUARY TERMf, 1860.

97

The United States v. Price.

Indeed, without relying on this distinction, the Lord Chancellor in Primrose v. Bromley, 1 Atkyns, 90, states a case
where he decreed such relief, to a certain extent, on a joint
bond against the estate of the deceased. He observes, "1There was a case which I determined in this court, where
there were two persons jointly bound in a bond, one of the
obligors died; and to be sure, at law, it might have been put
in suit against the survivor, but as I thought it extremely hard,
I decreed the representative of the co-obligor should be charged
pari yassu with the surviving obligor in the payment of the
bond."
But it seems uniform to grant such relief by a new remedy
in chancery against the estate of the deceased, whenever, as
here, the original contract was several as well as joint. Towers v. Moor, 2 Vern. 99 ; 1 Peters, 16, and cases post; Rogers
v. Danvers, 1 Mod. 165; Burr. 1190; Williams on Executors,
809, 811; 1 Freeman, 127. 1 doubt whether a single case
to the contrary exists in either the American or the English
books.
One ground of relief, where the original contract was several
no less than joint, is'the admission in the undertaking, that each
signer and his estate should ber separately liable for the whole
to the obligee, so far as regards him, and hence raising in
equity a liability to do this separately by his property -after
death, because the difficulty in any remedy to enforce it at law
is merely technical, and the equity or conscience in paying an
unsatisfied promise and debt stands still unimpaired. See further cases. United States v. Cushman, 2 Sumner, 427; 1
Merivale, 563 ; Sumner v. Powell; 2 Merivale, 30; Devaynes
v. Noble, 2 Russ. & Mylne, 506. The chief difficulty in
this class of cases is to settle whether the contract was several as well as joint. It is thd language of the contract,
when several, which is the most decisive test as to its severalty. Sir Win. Grant says, "When the obligation exists only
by virtue of the covenant, its extent can be measured only by
the words in which it is conceived." 2 Meriv. 36. A similar
reliance on the words used being joint only, and not several,
appears in Harrison v. Field, 2 Wash. 141.
The court observes, too, in Sumner v. Powell, 1 Turner &
Russell,_425, "1Tere can be no doubt in the world,' that, if this
covenant had been a joint and several covenant, it would have
done, and therefore any evil which might otherwise arise out
of the case may be avoided by the addition of a single word."
In Towers v. Moor, 2 Vernon, 99, it is said, "1Where two are
jointly bound. and one dies, you must sue the survior, and
VOL. ix.

9

98

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Price.

cannot maintain au action against the executor or administrator
of him that is dead; but if bound jointly and severally, it is
otherwise."
So in Lechmere v. Fletcher, 1 Crompton J Meeson, 629,
there had been a contract wholly joint, and a judgment on it
jointly; but one of the promisors made also a several agreement to pay the amount, not as a substitute, but os an additional undertaking; and a remedy in equity against the representative of this last promisor was sustained on that separate
agreement.
But without pursuing tiis point further, it is placed beyond
doubt, by the numerous cases hereafter cited, that .courts
of equity will give relief, though the contract produced is on
its face joint, if it be proved that it was originally agreed to
be joint and several, and by mistake or ignorance was written joint alone. It becomes necessary, then, to consider next
the only pretence urged for taking this case out of the general
rule, namely, that a joint judgment had been subsequently recovered here against all the obligors, and that the deceased was
a surety.
Ist. It has been much pressed here that the remedy in this
case is now at law only on the joint judgment, and hence should
not be enforced severally in equity. But it is conceded that
the original'liability was joint and several; and it is laid down
in some books, that a several action at law could probably have
been sustained here on the original demand, after the joint
judgment.
It has been adjudged by this court, that on a joint and several promissory note an action and judgment against the signers
severally are no bar to a joint action against them. Sheehy v.
Mandeville, 6 Cranch, 253; 6 Coke, 44; 13 Mass. 148. And
though a joint suit on a joint and several promise is a bar to another joint action on it, (Higgens's case, 6 Coke, 45; Gilman
v. Rives, 10 Pet. 293,) it is thought by Judge Story, after
much deliberation and research, to be no bar to a several shit
and judgment afterwards on the original joint and several
promise. U. States v. Cushman, 2 Sumner, 312, semb., and
427; 1 Story's Eq. Jur. § 164 and note, and § 676; 7 Serg.
& Rawle, 355; Lechmere v. Fletcher, 1 Crompt. & Mees.
623. Sed cited contra, 13 Serg. & Rawle, 288; 2 Watts, 204;
7 Serg. & Rawle, 354; 2 Serg. & R~wle, 280; 9 Watts &
Serg. 88; U. States v. Thompson, 1 Gilpin, 622; 1 Peters. 16;
2 Wash. 136.
On an examination of the opposing cases which have
been cited, it will be seen that the weight of authority is

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

99

The United States v. Price.

against the technical merger or bar set up here by the joint
judgment.
The case cited from Gilpin against this is one at law; and
the point in controversy was merely the validity of a release to
one co-obligor, after a judgment against another, to discharge
the latter also.
The case of Williams et al. v. McFall, 2 Serg. & R.
280 -262, is only sustaining a judgment separately against one
co-obligor, who confessed it.
The case in 1 Peters, 16, merely held one obligee to abide
by the selection he had made of one kind of security o-T-,.
another, given by a single obligor.
The case in 2 Washington, 136, was one of a joint contract
originally, no less than afterwards.
The case of Reed v. Garvin's Executors; 7 Serg. & R. 354,
held, to be sure, that one joint judgment was a bar to another
at law against the executors of one of the obligors deceased.
Yet, at the same time, it maintained that a remedy existed
against the real property, if not the personal, of the deceased,
and at law, in Pennsylvania, wherever it existed in England in
chancery (pp. 356, 357,365). Duncan, J., at this last page, says,
what strongly applies here, though after a joint judgment on
the bond against all the obligors, -"
That in some way the
defendants, the executors of the deceased obligor, should be
reached, or the lands of the testator, which are assets in his
hands," and charged with the payment of judgment debts,
"we all agree, though we differ in the mode."
The case of Downey v. The Farmers and Mechanics' Bank,
13 Serg. & R. 28S, is the only case cited which holds that
after an action at law against two co-obligors, though judgment
be obtained only against one, another suit separately will not
lie against the other. But this was deemed by the court as illiberal and technical in principle, and applied only to another
proceeding at law against one.
Thgre is another case - Ex parte Rowlandson, 3 P. Wins.
406- which has not been dited, but holds, as a collateral
point or illustration,- that a suit against all obligors instituted on a joint and several contract at law may, while pending,
be pleaded in abatement to a several suit on the same contract,
and vice versd. No decided case of this kind is cited, however, and this is not in all respects in point.
Nor is it in point that a joint judgment against two, apparently on a promise wholly joint, is a bar to a subsequent action at law against one of them, without averring the death or
discharge of the other, (see Gilman v. Rives, 10 Pet. 298,)
because the present promise was not joint alone.

100

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Price.

In no instance in this class of cases has it ever been held necessary, in order to sustain this proceeding in equity, that a
judgment on the original indebtedness should be severally recovered first. See post. 1 Meriv. 539. Or that, if joint, it
should be still open to a several remedy at law.
Thus stands this point on the precedents. It will be apparent, therefore, that when this is a mere technical objection as
to a remedy, and not any defence against the debt as still due,
and is a very doubtful one at law on the present facts, it ought
not to prevail a moment in a court of equity.
It is not to be overlooked that our present inquiries are
not at law, but wholly in equity, and are to be governed by
equitable, and not strict legal or technical considerations. If,
then, the joint judgment had been more clearly a technical merger of the joint and several debt here, and no several
action would afterwards lie at law on the note, would it not be
just and right on principle to grant this separate aid in chancery ? So strong is this principle, we have already seen, that
sometimes it is provided by express legislation that at law a suit
may still be prosecuted against the surviving debtor and the executor of the deceased debtor together on a joint obligation, or,
if existing in a judgment, be enforced against the property of
either. (See Sumner, and Harris & Gill, before cited.) The
justice of such a remedy, the debt against both being conceded
still to exist unpaid, seems to be*so apparent, as to commend
its sanction and success in a court of equity without the aid of
any statutory provision. 1 Story's Eq. Jur. § 164.
One reason why the assets in the hands of the executor are
charged in any of these cases is, that he is a trustee for all
which can equitably be charged on them. 2 Williams on Executors, 1584. But was -not the estate of the deceased charged
equitably with a joint judgment against him on a joint and several promise, as fully as by that promise without any judgment?
One prominent reason assigned against this relief here, under
all the circumstances of the case, has been, that, by the joint
judgment, there has been a release or quasi release of each
obligor. But this cannot mean a release of the debt, or the
joint judgment itself could not be enforced at all in any way,
nor against either. So far from the debt itself being released,
it is fixed and proved by a solemn record. Notwithstanding,
too, the subsequent death of one, the debt still stands. He
has never paid it, and his property, in every conscientious view,
should also stand as liable as ever to discharge it, the obstacle
at law reaching.merely the remedy.
The obligation on the estate to pay in foro conscientia,being

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

101

The United States v. Price.

strong as ever, the moral duty on the representative of the deceased is still imperative, and is more to be -weighed and enforced in chancery than elsewhere, that being the tribunal peculiarly designed to relieve against much of the strictness and
technicality prevailing elsewhere.
It has been urged, further, that, if the liability is enforced,
here in chancery, it will be without any equity existing between the obligors. But that is not the question; it P, whether there was'not an equity between the obligors and the obligee,- one growing out of an absolute promise, an ample consideration both implied and hereafter shown, and in this case a
judgment recovered. An executor is charged sometimes where
a judgment has been recovered against the deceased, when he
would not'be if there had been no such judgment, as the cause
of action at times does' not survive. Whiteacres v. Onsley,
Dyer, 322, a; 2 Williams on Executors, 1366.
Again, it is urged that, the joint judgment being a merger
of the joint and several contract, and a several remedy at law
afterwards not allowed, there is fio ground in equity, because none at law exists to charge the several estate of one
deceased. But this proves too much. The principle 'in all
these cases is not to discharge on, in equity, if not liable
to a suit severally at law, 'but almost the reverse; because
in all cases, except where the contract on its face and in terms
was several, no several suit at'law can be maintained. But
still a proceeding is frequently sustained in equity, and the
circumstance of there being no xelief at law is one reason for
rather than against it. Thus is it with a partnership deL], a
common joint debt on a joint loan and bond, and a joint contract or bond not reformed, but which should have been written
several. In none of these could a several suit at law lie wheif the
co-obligor died, and yet in all a court of chancery will relieve.
Those in each class have been or will hereafter be explained,
and need not be repeated.
.Again, on equitable grounds, it seems obvious that after a
joint judgment against joint and several obligors, which binds
still the person and property of either as much as if the judgment liad been several, the property of each should continue
liable as much as if the contract -had been never sued, or had
been sued severally. And a fortiori should this be the case
in equity, where judgments form a lien on the property of all
the respondents, and a joint judgment, as here, bound the estate of the deceased co-obligor. I am not aware of any case
like this, even if it had been entirely joint in form, that equity
would not pursue such a lien against all.

9*

102

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v.Price.

Again, supposing that a several action would not lie here on
the bond against one co-obligor after a joint judgment, though
the promise was joint and several, rather than joint oi several,
or joint alone, it is far from decisive against this application in
equity. There the court often looks to the circumstance
whether the original contract of indebtedness was joint alone,
or joint and several, and if the latter will aid a recovery.
So paramount is this test, that where the written contract
reads joint only, equity will on request reform it, if it was originally agreed to be several, and by mistake or fraud was not
so written; and after reforming it, chancery will enforce it
against the estate of one co-obligor deceased, as it was supposed
to stand originally. 1 Story's Eq. Jur. § 164.
Other cases seem to imply that an original indebtedness,
though the bond be only joint, and no evidence offered of
an agreement that it should be several also, will be regarded as several, and enforced accordingly, if it was for an
ordinary loan, where all are partners or where all were benefited. See post; 1 Story's Eq. Jur. §§ 162, 676; 2 Russ.
196; 2 Meriv. 36.
Afortiori will relief, then, be proper, if it was, as here, originally written several, or even if it was agreed to be so. 2 Ves.
sen. 101, 106; Ex parte Symonds, I Cox, Oh. 200. Indeed,
the justice of this has seemed so strong, that some legislatures,
as in Maryland, have gone so far as expressly to enact that the
same remedies shall be sustained on joint bonds against estates
of one deceased, as on those joint and several. See Act
of 1811, ch. 161, in 2 Gill & Johns. 316; 7 Harr. & Johns.
466.
That I am right as to the practice in equity to look to the
original contract, and not merely the face of the present debt,
may be seen in the cases of partners and of ordinary joint contracts, where it is allowed to be proved that originally, in their
essence, though not in form, they were several no less than
joint, and after that to grant relief. See the illustration in
Hunt v. Rousmaniere's Adm., 1 Peters, 16, and cases hereafter
cited.
It is a peculiar excellence in chancery, on many occasions,
that it goes behind writings, and even sealed instruments and
judgments, to ascertain how the original transaction stood,
and what were its true obligations, in order to enforce them.
The joint judgment here did not create the original liability
to pay, and hence'equity can as prdperly go back of it to see
what the original liability was, and if several no less than joint;
as it, goes back of a joint bond when "it was not the bond

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

103

The Unite4 States v. Price.

which first created the liability to pay." 2 Williams on Executors, 1370.
However, then, it may be at law as to the several liability of
a joint and several contractor, after a joint judgment has been
recovered, it seems that the principle and precedefits in equity
do not rest on that, but hold ti i estate of one after his death
responsible, if the original obligation was several as well as
joint. Here the promise and duties were at first not only several, and have never been satisfied, and, except technically at
law in respect to the remedy, have never been extinguished;
but to the original equities have been superadded a lien on his
estate, by the joint judgment recovered before his death, and
which it is equitable to have enforced after his death, on this
no less than several other occasions.
There are two classes! of cases which go to sustain fnrther
this view, where the contract is on its face joint, and not in,
form several as well as joint, and is not proved to have been
originally agreed to be written several as well as joint; and
yet where relief can be had, looking to the original severalty of
the transaction, rather than to the mere technical law on it as
now standing. One is where the obligors acted as partners in
business, and there, though the promise is in form only joint,
a court of equity will charge the estate of the deceased partner
in a bill against the executor or administrator. 1 Story's Eq.
Jur. §§ 676, 1(13; Thomas's case. 3 Yes. 399; 1 Meriv. 539;
Devaynes v. Noble, 2 Russ. & Mylne, 495, 506; Bishop v.
Church, 2 Ves. sen. 101, 371. This is also said to proceed on
general principles of equity rather than on the lex mercatoria.
1 Meriv. 539, 562; 2 Younge & Col. 562. -i goes back for
a test to the original consideration and relation of the parties.
So fully, however, even there, is the reliete granted on the
ground or theory of a several obligation or duty originally,
though not so expressed in the writing, that the-Master of
the Rblls declares, in Henderson v. "Wilkinson (1 Mylne &
Keen, 588), - "All the authorities establish, that, in the consideration of a court- of equity, a partnership debt is several as
wvell as joint."
The other class is, that in a joint loan or other transaction, if
the obligation taken be in terms joint only, and not agreed in
the writing or otherwise to be several, equity will still enforce
it in many cases against the estate of either alone. 2 Meriv.
37; Thompson v. Jackson, 2 Younge & Col. 553; Cowell v.
Sikes, 2 Russ. 196; Ex parte Kendall, 17 Ves. .525, note;
Waters v. Riley, 2 Har. & Gill, 310-313; 6 Serg. & R. 266;
Primrose v. Bromley, 1 Atk. 89; Kennedy v. Carpenter, 2

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Price.

Whart. 364, 365; 1 Alylne & Keen, 582; Simpson v. Vaughan,
2 Atk. 32; Bishop v. Church, 2 Yes. sen. 101. Here, also,
the idea of a several obligation originally is still looked to,
and is sought outside of or behind the joint instrument, by examining the transaction as it took place at first.
Some rest the remedy here on the presumed receipt originally by each of a part of the loan or benefit; and others on
the legal presumption, not the proved fact, that the contract
itself was by mistake originally not written several as well as
joint, and thus reforming it and deciding on it as if reformed and
made several. See cases before cited, and Hunt v. Rousmaniere's Adm., 1 Peters, 16. And others put it on the probable
legal intent, that all should be severally held responsible. 6
Serg. & Rawle, 261; 9 Yes. 118. And this intent is the presumption in all mercantile transactions, - more obviously from
usage there, -but is not confined to them. 1 Russ. 191; 2
Younge & Col. 562; Rawstone v. Parr, 3 Russ. 427 ; Ex parte
Kendall, 17 Yes. 528, note. So strong is this equity regarded against the estate of one deceased, in either of these
classes, that chancery will allow it to be pursued without a
resort first to the survivor. Wilkinson v. Henderson, 1 Mylne
& Keen, 588; Sleech's case, 1 Meriv. 539, and 3 Meriv. 593.
The reliance just referred to, on legal presumptions and
probable intents originally, in order to find an original severalty
in the case to help furnish or justify a remedy in equity, discloses another and the last ground I shall consider in favor of
such a remedy here. It is this.
If such presumptions will be made in point of law, as to the
intent, and, an error in the writing, so as to raise a several engagement originally, to charge the estate of one deceased, the
reason for them here is much stronger, as here the original
contract was expreised on its face to be several. We are not
compelled to resort to mere constructions and inferences to
show it to be several. And if equity will in these cases overcome the technical objection at law -which prevents a proceeding there against the estate of one deceased obligor, when the
contract is on its face joint, so may it equally well overcome
the technical objection at law, when the judgment is on its face
joint.'
Indeed, as before suggested, the equities in favor of this redress in all cases of joint contracts, and independent of statutory
provision, are nearly as strong as in those joint and seveal, and quite as strong in case of joint judgments, as'these last
generally constitrte an actual lien on the estate of each obligor.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

105

The United States v. Price.

2d. No ground remains for claiming an exemption of the estate of Archer from this liability in equity, unless it be that he
was a surety in the bond. But if a surety promise severally
as well as jointly, he seems as liable in equity on account of
that written and express promise as a principal would be.
And it is on that several promise he is here chargeable in the
first instance.
If it was necessary to show some original consideration, in
connection with the surety in such matters, the signers of a
joint and several bond are as to the obligee usually to be regarded as all principals. 2 Sumner, 427; 6 Johns. Ch. 309;
Boddam's case, 9 Ves. 465; 1 Story's Eq. Jur..§ 496.
It has been adjudged by this court, that the consideration to
charge the principal is good to charge the surety. Thus, in
The United States v. Linn et al., 15 Peters, 290, it is said, 11If Linn received a sufficibnt consideration to uphold the
promise on his part, it was sufficient to bind the sureties.
There was no necessity for any consideration passing directly
between the plaintiffs and the sureties. It was one entire and
original transaction, and the consideration which supported the
contract of Linn supported that of his sureties." (p. 314.)
Beside this, unless the obligee injures them by a new stipulation for further delay with the principal, which is not attempted to be proved here, and when here the delay benefited
the surety alone, the principal being insolvent, then it will be
seen that other good reasons usually exist for him to consider
them as principals, and as promising for a good and valuable
consideration to pay the sum named in the bond, and thus to
raise a strong equity against them. Such a consideration,
when they are liable by a sealed instrument, is in law always
presumed or implied. 6 Johns. Ch. 302; 1 Vernon, 427; 1
Ves. sen. 514; 15 Peters, 291.
It is the usage, also, for sureties to be previously indemnified
by a pledge of actual property of some kind, or to receive in
money in advance two or more per cent. for their 'guarantee.
It is to be recollected, also, that here the imported goods
were, in consequence of their promise, allowed to be sold in
tfiis country by the owner with no other payment of duties,
and thus a most important pecuniary benefit conferred on their
friend for their promise as sureties.
One of Lord Bacon's proposed impro.vements in chancery
was to treat sureties as justice and the law required, and their
own conduct warranted ; they, being anxious to"obtain favors
for friends or themselves by their promises, should therefore be made equally anxious to fulfil those promises. See 6

106

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Price.

Johns. Ch. 309, a like view. The surety is also often the most
responsible signer, and without whom the credit would not
generally have been given.
An idea seems to have been entertained here, that chancery
will do nothing to charge a surety which cannot be done at
law, or when he is technically exonerated at. law. But this is
ah error. It will often extend like relief against them as fully
as against principals. Thus, passing by the cases, that a surety
will still be made liable in equity though the bond-is lost, as
this may be done at law, (Skip v. Huey et al., 3 Atk. 93; 6
Johns. Ch. 307; 1 Ch. Cases, 77; Boddam's case, 9 Yes. 464;
Equity Cases Abr. 93 ; 2 Wash. Rep. 140,) yet, in chancery,
a contract will be reformed against a surety as well as a principal, where it is proved clearly that his name was by mistak6
omitted in the body of the instrument, 'though this will not be
done at law. (Crosby v. Middleton, Prec. in Ch. 309.) So
where, by mistake, the bond runs to a wrong person. (Wiser
v. Blachly, 1 Johns. Ch. 607.) There are several cases, too,
where in equity, but not at law, a bond only joint on its face
will be reformed against a surety, and made several also, if it
was proved to be originally agreed to be several. 1 Story's
Equity, § 164, and cases there; see cases before cited, and
3 Russell' 424, 539; Weaver v. Shryock, 6 Serg. & R. 262265. And to go to the full extent of the present case, it has
been deliberately settled, that relief in equity to charge the estate of a deceased surety will be given as fully as against the
principal, when the bond is on its face expressed to be joint
and several. 6 Johns. Ch. 309; Rawstone v.'Parr, 3 Russell,
427 and 539, semb. ; Wiser v. Blachly, 1 Johns. Ch. 609;
Prec. in Oh. 309; United States v. Cushman, 2 Sumner,

427.
In this class of cases, also, the relief is made to rest on the
express form'of the bond or contract being several as well as
joint, aild not on any joint benefit or partnership.
'These last are distinct and different grounds to charge either
principals or sureties, when contracts are on the face of them
joint. See Pitman, Prin. and Sur. 91, note 1. So in Rawstone
v. Parr, 3 Russell, 427, and 539, S. C., it was held that,
though the present contract appeared to,be only joint, if i was
agreed originally to be joint and several, as it was in truth here,
a court of equity would 'aid a recovery against the executor
even of a surety. Prec. in Ch. 309; 1 Story's Equity, § 164;
1 Johns. Ch. 609. Sed cited contra, Waters v. Riley, 2
Harris & Gill, 310; 6 Serg. & Rawle, 246, senb.; Kennedy v. Carpenter, 2 Wharton. 361. But, as-already shown,

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

107

The United States v. Price.

these last were all cases of joint contracts, and not agreed to be
several also; and cases where, likewise, no- consideration was
supposed to exist affecting the surety.
In 6 Serg. & Rawle, 266, the court admit that cases may exist
where the estate of a co-surety may be charged, and one of
them is where it was originally agreed the bond should be several (p. 264). We have already cited a number of others to
that effect, and consider this an authority for our proposition.
The case of Harrison's Executors v. Field's Executors, 2
W~sh. 136, is often cited against the position I have taken.
But it was confessedly a joint bond, and there was no evidence
of an original agreement to have it several (p. 138). And
Judge Roane (p. 139) makes the same admission, that cases
may exist where the estate of a co-surety is liable.
All the doctrines in Pitman on Principal and Surety, 90 and
91, supposed to differ from this position, are cases where the
written contract is joint, and not joint and several.
Obscurity arises in some of the cases amidst these distinctions, from their subtilty and variety, and this tends to mislead unless cautious discrimination is made. This, and the
collision between a few of the cases in the books, sometimes
spring from the circumstance of not adverting to the ground,
that all the signers are principals as to the obligee; and that
sureties are as to him to be made liable, as if principals. See
this error in Waters v. Riley, 2 Harris & Gill, 310. And from
not discriminating between cases where the written obligation
was only joint, and where it was both joint and several. 3
Russell, 541. So, from not observing that the surety is estopped as to the receipt of a consideration in a sealed instrument, and more especially, as here, after a judgment against
him and the principal.
Another cause of some confusion and mistake in some of the
cases is the treating of them as if still at law, and on strict
legal principles, rather than in equity and on equitable grounds.
It is another source of error' that several cases rest on more
than one ground. Thus, in Primrose v. Bromley, 1 Atk. 90, the
obligation was several as well as joint, and a benefit or consiceration extending to the co-obligor deceased. So in Simpson v.
Vaughan's Executors, 2 A&. 33, the court first reformed the
contract, being a -mercantile loan, so as to regard it as several
no less than joint, and a full consideration to the deceased was
apparent.
Here one ground exists, which is sufficient alone, namely, a
written obligation several as well as joint; though, were it
necessary to show a ,consideration also, reaching the surety,

108 1

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Price.

enough to raise a legal and strong presumption of one is not
difficult to be pointed out, as before done, and explained.
In conclusion it may be useful, as a test of the real equity
of the principle adopted by the court in this case, to examine
for a moment and discriminate what is its character or extent.
It is this. An original obligation, joint and several, after the
death of one obligor, who was a surety, may equitably be enforced against his estate, if not sued at all, but cannot be equitably enforced against it if sued jointly, and the liability of
all rendered more certain, and a lien against the estates of all
fixed by the judgment recovered.
Again, if an obligee'sues each obligor separately, on a joint
and several bond, before the death of either, it holds him entitled to relief against the estate of the deceased; but if he sues
all together, he is not equitably to be relieved. In both cases,
the original contract was the same in form and substance, the
consideration the same, the liens the same; and as to the deceased, the same in amount after, as well as before, judgment;
and in both cases the debt itself is still unpaid and still unreleased, and no remedy open at law against the estate. Yet it
seems, in an equitable view, - in a court whose duty and business it is generally to adopt an enlarged, liberal, and just policy,
and t6 aid against the strictness and technicalities of law, -one
of these cases is to be deemed entitled to its beneficent interference, but the other is not.
Again, as a consequence of this doctrine, all joinit obligors
will of course hereafter be burdened with much increased cost,
instead of being aided by any principle in their favor really
settled by the court in this judgment. Because all the ameliorating principle settled here is, that, if each obligee is sued
severally on a joint and several obligation, the obligor is entitled to the aid of a court of equity against the estate of one
deceased; but if he brings only one action, and makes but one
bill of cost against all of them, he behaves so as to be entitled
to no equitable relief.' Certainly this looks like a new attitude
or version of what in a court of equity, should be considered
equitable; and it is likely to prove much 1m6re" beneficial to
the profession, than to the parties concerned or the public.
Whatever technical differences as to. remedies may be created
at law by the forms.of judgments, it will be.difficult inequity,
and applying equitable principles, as in the presefit case, to discriminate against the present case onthe merits and on grounds
of substantial justice.
The plaintiffs, therefore, seem to me entitled to recover, out
of the estate of the deceased, the balance which is due.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

109

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of.Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed.

JADIES G.

WILSON,
SIMPSON,

APPELLANT,

v. ANDnEw P. SIMiPSoN, E. E.

JOSEPH FORSYTH, AND BAGDAD MILLS.

The documents showing the title to Woodworth's planing-machine are set forth in
cxt.nso in 4 Howard, 647, et sey.
The nizgnment from Woodworth and Strong to Toogood, Halstead, and Tyack
(4 Howard. 655) declared not to have been fraudulently obtained according to the
evidence in this case.
An it gnee of Wopdworth's planing-machine, having a right, under the decision in
4 Howard, to continue the use of the patented machine, has a right to replace
new cutters or knives ior those which are worn out.
The difference explained between repairing and reconstructing a machine.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Louisiana.
It was a continuation of the case of Simpson et al. v. Wilson,
reported in 4 Howard, 710, where a statement of the case is
given, which need not be here repeated. All the documents
relating to the patent and transfer of Woodworth's planingmachine are set forth in extenso in the case of Wilson v. Rousseau et al., 4 Howard, 647, et seq.
The report of the case in 4 Howard shows that the two
following questions were certified to this court, viz. :" 1. Whether, by law, the extension and renewal of the said
patent granted to-William Woodivorth, and obtained by William
W. Woodworth, his executor, inured to the benefit of the said
defendant, to the extent that said defendant was interested in
said patent before such renewal and extension.
"2. Whether, by law, the assignment of an exclusive right to
the defendant, by the original patentee or those claiming under
him, to use said machine, and to vend the same to others for
use, within the county of Escambia, in the Territory of West
Florida, did authorize said defendanlt to vend elsewhere than in
said county of Escambia, to wit, in the city of New Orleans,
Stdite of Louisiana, plank, boards, and other materials, prodVOL. M.
10

