JANUARY TERM, 1850.

501

The United States v. Roberts et al.

cause be remanded to the Circuit Court, to be proceeded in conformably with the principles herein above declared.
Order.
This cause came qn to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
award a venirefacias de novo, and for such further proceedings
to be had therein as may be in conformity to the opinion of
this court, and as to law and justice may appertain.

TnE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN S. RO1ERTS
AND JAMES F. REED, SURVIVORS OF JAmES ADAMS.
By the ninth section of the act of Congress passed in 1836 (5 Stat. at Large, 81), it
was enacted that the Postmaster-General was authorized to give instructions to
postmasters for accounting and disbursing the public 'money.
In 188, the Postmaster-General gave instructions to all postmasters, that, where
they paid money to contractors for carrying the mail, duplicate receipts were to be
taken in the form presciibed, one of which the postmaster was to keep, and the
other was directed to be sent by the next mail to the Auditor for the Post-Office
Department.
Where a payment was made to a contractor by the surety of a postmaster in his behalf, and ncj duplicate receipt forwarded to the Post-Office Department, nor any
information thereof given to the Department until after a final settlement of the
accounts of the contractor had been made, in which settlement the contractor was
not charged with the amount of such payment, it was error in the Circuit Court to
instruct the jury that they might allow a credit for it to the surety when sued upon
his bond, provided they believed from the testimony that the contractor had not
received more money than he was entitled to.
Bythat
an act
passed
on the 3d
of MYlarch, 1825 (4 Stat. at Large, 112), Congress declared
if any
postmaster
shall
neglect to render his account for one month after the
time, and in the form avd manner, prescribed by law, and by the Postmaster-Generals instructions conformable therewith, he shall forfeit double the value of the
postages which shall have arisen at the same office in any equal portion of time,
previous or subsequent thereto; or in case no account shah have been rendered at
the time of the trial of such case, then such sum as the court and jury shall estimate as equivalent thereto.
Where, at the time of the trial of a suit by the United States against a postmaster
and his surety, there was no return for an entire quarter and a fraction of the ensuing quarter, the proper mode of computing damages was to go back to a quarter
for which there was a return, calculate from it the amount due for the deficient
quarter and deficient fraction taken together, and then double the sum arrived at
by this calculation.
The fraction is included, because the obligation to make a return is as binding upon

,SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Roberts et al.
a postmaster who leaves office in the middle of a quarter, as if he remaiied in office
until the end of the quarter.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Illinois.
It was an action of debt, brought by the United States in the
Circuit Court, on an official bond against John S. Roberts, who
had been postmaster at Springfield, Illinois, and James F. Reed
and James Adams, his sureties.
The facts in the'case were these.
On the 3d of March, 1825, Congress passed an act (4 Stat. at
Large, 112), the thirty-second section of which enacted as follows, viz. :
"That if any postmaster shall neglect to render his accounts
for one month after the time, and in the form and manner, prescribed by law, and by the Postmaster-General's instructions
conformable therewith, he shall forfeit double the value of the
postages which shall have arisen at the same office in any
'equal portion of time, previous or subsequent thereto; or in case
no account shall have been rendered at the time of trial of such
case, then, such sum as the court and jury shall estimate as
equivalent thereto, to be recovered by the Postmaster-General,
in -ar action of debt on the bond against-the postmaster and his
securities, and for which tle securities shall be liable." This
was no new provision, being substantially a regnactment of the
thirtieth section of the Post-Office Act of 1810. 2 Statutes at
Large, 602.
In 1836 Congress passed another act (5 Stat. at Large, 81), the
ninth section of which gave to the Postmaster-General authority
to prescribe regulations for the proper enforcement of the duties
of postmasters.
Under this authority, Amos Kendall, then Postmaster-General, issued the following cifcular.'

Letter.
"Post- Office Department, April 13, 1838.
"cTo
Postmaster at Springfield, Ill.
"Sir, -You are required, within two days after the close
of each quarter, to forward your quarterly accounts to this Department ; or, if there be no mail from your office within that
time, then by the next mail. The quarters end on the 31st
March, 30th June, 30th September, and 31st December.
"By having your accounts of mails sent, and mails received,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

503

The United States v. Roberts et al.

copied beforehand, up to the last day, you can finish the copies,
make the calcula:ions, and have them ready to be forwarded, in
a few hours.
"As you have no right to use or credit out the money which
belongs to the United States, it is required that you have the
balance due at the end of each quarter ready to be paid on
demand.
"The contractor named at the foot of this letter, who carries the mail on the route there stated, on which your office is
situated, is authorized to demand and receive of you, either in
person or by his agent, at the end of each quarter, so long as he
shall actually carry the mail on said route, or until you shall be
otherwise directed, the whole amount due from you to the
United States, including the quarter then just terminated, as
shown in your account current.
"Blank forms of orders and receipts (specimens of which,
filled up, are hereto annexed) will be sent, for every collection,
to the contractor. These forms, and no others, must be used
in your payments to contractors. If the contractor call on you
in person for the money, the orders will not be necessary,' and
you will take from him two receipts in the form prescribed, one
of which you will keep, and send the other by the next mail to
the Auditor for the Post-Office Department. If any other person call for the money as agent, he must produce to you two
orders in the prescribed form, signed by the contractor, with
the blank receipts annexed; and after you have paid him, he
will fill up and sign both receipts, and leave both orders and
both receipts with you ; one of each you will forthwith send
to the Auditor for the Post-Office Department, and retain the
other.
"These claims and orders cannot be sold, negotiated, or
transferred, and no credit will be allowed you for any payment
to any other person than the contractor, or the persons named in
his orders ; nor in the latter case will credit be allowed, unless
the order accompany the receipt; nor unless the receipt be
dated on the day when the -money is paid.
"When demand is made of you as herein prescribed, it is
expected that you will make instant payment, and the contractor is instructed to report forthwith to the Department every
refusal or failure on your part.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
€CAMos KENDALL.

"Pay to Robert Allen,
Contractor on route No. 2,701.

504

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Roberts et al.
"10
You will take care to write or stamp the riame of your
office on the outside of the packet containing your quarterly
returns for each quarter.
" Auditor's Office, P. 0. Dep."

Annexed to this letter were blank forms, which the postmaster was directed to follow.
There was also issued the following circular to contractors
for carrying the mail.
"Post- Office Department,

183

4CTo
Contractor on Mail Route' No.
[and]
"The postmaster at
are instructed to pay over to you, or your order, on demand, at
the end of each quarter, so long as you shall actually carry the
mail on said route, or until they shall be otherwise directed, the
whole amount due from them to the Department, for the quarter then just terminated, as shown by their several accounts
current.
"You are requested to make demand as soon as possible
after the first day of the next quarter, and report to the Department every failure or refusal to pay, with the'reasons therefor,
whether given by the postmasters, or otherwise known to you.
"When you have received the balances due from all these
postmasters, or as many of them as can be collected, you will
fill up, sign, and send to the Department the blank ' acknowledgment' sent to you, of which a specimen is annexed, showing the name of each postmaster, the name of his office, and
the amount received from him, upon receipt of which a draft
will be forwarded for any amount which may still be due to
you; provided that, in case you fail-to collect any one of said
balances, nlo part of the balance due will be paid you until the
Department shall be satisfied that you have used due diligence
to effect the -collection, and that it could not he done.
"Herewith you will also receive the proper number of orders
and receipts, in blank, for collections on the above route; that
is, an original and duplicate for each office, which you are required to use m all your collections from the postmasters.
Similar blanks will be forwarded for each successive quarter.
You will collect at the end of each quarter from those offices
-only which are named in the blanks sent to you for that quarter. If you apply for the money in person, the orders will be
unnecessary, and you will fill up and hand to each postmaster
from whom you may receive payment the original and dupli-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

505

The United States v. Roberts et al.

cate receipts, sent to you for his office,- one for his own use,
the other to be sent to the Department. If you send any other
person to call for the money at an office, you will fill up in.
his
favor, and give him the two orders (original and duplicate) sent
to you for that office, with the blank receipts annexed ; and
when he has received the money, he will fill ut) and sign the
annexed receipts, and leave both orders and both receipts With
the postmaster.
"You are not authorized to sell, negotiate, or transfer any
of these claims, and no payment will be recognized by the Department unless made directly to you, or to the person named
in your orders.
" Every order and every receipt must bear the true date of
its signature, in default of which it will not be considered a
good voucher at the Department.
"Very respectfully, your obedient servant."
Annexed to this letter also were blanks, and copies were sent
to the postmasters.
On the 9th of July, 1840, John S. Rolerts, being reappointed
postmaster at Springfield, executed a bond to the United States,
with James Adams and James F. Reed as sureties, in the penal
sum of five thousand dollars, with the condition that he should
well and truly execute the duties of the said office according to
law and the instructions of the Postmaster-General, &c., &c.
The contractor for carrying the mail on route No. 2,701,
from Springfield in Illinois to Terre Haute in Indiana, was
Robert Allen.
It appeared from the testimony of Thomas A. Scott, a clerk
in the office of the Auditor of the Treasury for the Post-Office
Department, that for the third quarter of 1840, Allen, the contractor, transmitted an acknowledgment for collection made on
route No. 2,701; that, in this acknowledgment, the said Allen
acknowledged no sum as received from said Roberts, and that,
no receipt having been received froin said Roberts, no charge
was made on account of any such collection against said Allen
for said quarter, nor was any credit given to said Roberts; but
that deponent, considering that said Roberts was in default in
respect to said quarter by not paying over his quarterly dues to
the said contractor according to his duty under his standing instructions, and upon the printed receipts sent to the contractor
for that purpose, regarded it as his duty to report said default
for the information of the Postmaster-General, and did accordingly make such report on the 14th of November, 1840.
"And deponent further saith, that, for the fourth quarter of
voL. Ix.
43

06SUPREM.E

COURT.

The United States v. Roberts et al.

1840, the said Allen transmitted an acknowledgment for collecting on said route No. 2,701; that, in this acknowledgment,
said Allen having reported no um as collected from said postmaster, and the said Roberts having forwarded no receipt, no
debit to the contractor, or credit to the postmaster, in like manner, was given for said fourth quarter of 1840.
"And deponent further saith, that, for the first quarter of 1841,
the said Allen transmitted an acknowledgment of collections on
said route No. 2,701, a copy of which is hereto annexed,
marked I, and made part of this deposition; that, in this acknowledgment, the said Allen acknowledged himself to have
received the sum of $ 733.28 from J. W: Keys, the successor
of said Roberts, for the part of said quarter said Keys was in
office, but acknowledged no sum as received from said Roberts,
and that neither did the said Roberts transmit any receipt of
said Allen for said first quarter, nor for any part thereof,'during
which he remained in office."
It should be mentioned that, for the second quarter of 1840,
Allen, the contractor, transmitted an account to the Department,
in which he took no notice of a payment of.$ 956.87, which
had been made to him by the postmaster at Springfield; but,
the postmaster having transmitted Allen's receipt in proper form
for that amounto Allen was charged and the postmaster credited
with that amojint.
In January, 1841, Allen alleged that he gave a receipt to
James Adams, one, of the sureties, for $ 1 731.39, which. Adams
had paid to him at various times, and in various amounts. The
receipt was without date, and as follows "Received of John S. Roberts, Postmaster at Springfield,
IlL, (per Gen. James Adams, one' of his sureties,) seventeen
hundred and thirty-one dollars -49 of the amount due up to
the 1st of January, 1841, to the Post-Office Department.
" ROBERT ALLEN."

This receipt, however, was not transmitted to the Post-Office
Department until 1843, as appears from the following deposition by P. G. Washington, then Auditor of the Treasury for the
Post-Office Department.
"And deponent further saith, that whilst holdirg the office
of chief clerk, to wit, about the 1st of March, 1843, a letter
was received at the Auditor's office, and referred to deponent,
according to the usual course of business, from J. Butterfield,
Esq., then District Attorney, dated 19th February, 1843, and
inclosing a copy of. an affidavit made by said Robert Allen in
this cause, and a copy of a receipt given by him to James Ad-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

507

The United States v. Roberts et al.

ames, one of the sureties of said . S. Roberts, for the sum of
$ 1,731.39, the said affidavit setting forth that said Allen drew
for and received said amount at different times, and informed
the Post-Office Department thereof by letter ; and about the
same time deponent had referred to him another copy of said
affidavit and receipt, with a copy attached of an affidavit alleged to have been made also in this cause by the said J. S.
Roberts, setting forth, among other things, that said Roberts
had large items of set-off, which had been forwarded to the
Post-Office Department, and been disallowed. And deponent
then made an affidavit to rebut said affidavits, and with the
same object procured affidavits to be inade by said Elisha
Whittlesey and said Thomas A. Scott, and having, on said occasion, fully examined the whole subject, became well satisfied,
as he now is, that unless the said sum of $ 1,731.39, drawn for
and received at. different. times, was composed of sums which
were afterwards, to wit, at the end of the quarter, merged in
and covered by the sums for which the said Allen gave the
proper receipts, and which he properly reported in his acknowledgments for such quarter, the said sum of $ 1,731.39, as a
separate and specific payment. never came to ihe knowledge
of the Department, and was never charged to him, over and
above the sums regularly reported, and at the same time charged
to him, and credited to the said J. S. Roberts.
"1And deponent further saith, that from the time a statement
of the account of said Roberts was sent, as before stated, to wit,.
on the 29th January, 1842, for the information of the parties
liable to .the present, he, deponent, has had no knowledge
whatever of any exceptions taken to said account, nor of any
items of set-off on the part of said Roberts, except the pretended set-off founded upon the receipt of said Allen, which came
first to the knowledge of deponent at the time and in the manner before stated, and long after the final payment was made to
said Al!en in September, 1842, for the balance due him for carrying the mails, as before stated.
"And deponent further saith, that the original receipt of said
Allen for $ 1,731.39, before referred to, was also received at
the Auditor's office in a letter signed by James Adams, for himself and J. F. Reed, and dated 14th January, 1843, but not, as
deponent believes, before the copies were received, as before
stated; and that depondnt returned the said original receipt to
said Adams in a "letter dated the 11th May, 1843, as appears
by a memorandum made at (he time on a copy of said receipt,
which deponent prepared and retained."
On the 7th of February, 1841, Roberts went out of office.

WS

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Roberts et aL

In January, 1842, a copy of Roberts's account was transmitted to J. W. Keys, postmaster at Springfield, with instructions to present said account to the sureties of Roberts, and to
inform them that a draft would be issued for the amount. The
account was as follows, the first item being a balance due on
the 9th of July, .1840, Roberts havingbeen postmaster previous
to that day.
"Account.
To balance,
.
•
.
372.58
.
"
921.40
To account from July 9 to Sept. 30, 1840,
To balance on postages estimated to have arisen at
his office, from Oct. 1) 1840; to Feb. 7, 1841, and
doubled agreeably to the 3d section of the act
approved 3d March, 1825, relating to the PostOffice Departgient,
2,852.72

$4,146.70
Interest from 7th February, 1841.
IfI certify that the foregoing is a true statement of the account of J. S. Roberts, late postmaster at Springfield, Ill., as
*audited and adjusted at this office ;"that the said J.S. Roberts
did not render, as postmaster, an account current, as he was required to do, for the period from Oct. 1, 1840, to Feb. 7, 1841,
inclusive, within one month after the expiration of said period,
or at any subsequent time, and that I have estimated the postages received, in said period at $ 1,426.36, the basis of the estin*ate being the amount of postages received for the quarter next
preceding, say from July 1 to Sept. 30, 1840, and the paid sum
of- $ 1,426.36 bearing the proportion to $ 1,009.43 (the postages of said quarter) which 130 days do to 92 days (the number of days in said quarter); and that, having doubled the
amount of said postages ;o estimated,, agreeably to the thirtysecond section of the act of 3d March, 1825, I have charged
the same at $ 2,852.72.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name,
,[SEAL.] and caused to be affixed my seal of office, at Washington, this 17th day of June, in the year 1842.
c ELISHA WHITTLESEY,

Auditor of Treasuryfor Post-01ice Dep.'t."
It will be perceived by the above account, that the Auditor
adopted a rule which was one of the points contested in the
case; that for thne quarter ending on the 30th of September,
1840, the amount of postage received was $ 1,009.43; that
having no actual return of the amount received after that day,
he applied the rule of three to the case, and worked out the re-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

50

The United States v. Roberts et al.

sult by the following method. As 92 days (the quarter ending
on September 30th) are to $ 1,009.43, so. are 130 'days (the
time between September 30th and the 7th of February, 1841,
when he went out of office) to the sum with which he was
properly chargeable, viz. $ 1.426.36. According to the act of
Congress referred to in the commencement of this statement,
this sum was doubled. It will be seen by the bill of exceptions that the jury, under the charge given by the court, -doubled only the sum of $ 1,009.43.
In June, 1842, Allen's contract for carrying the mail expired,
and on the 9th of S.eptember_ 1842, his account was reported
for settlement to the Postmaster-General. It showed a balance*
due to Allen of $ 881.37, -#hich was paid on the 13th of September; but in this account no notice was taken of the alleged
receipt by him, from Roberts's surety, of the sum of $ 1,731.39,.
no such payment having been brought to the notice of the Department.
In December, 1844, suit was brought upon the bond by the
United- States, in the Circuit Court of the State of Illinois.
On the 14th of January, 1843, J. Adams, -"for himself
and James F. Reed," wrote a letter to the Post-Office Departmeit, inclosing a copy of the receipt (above mentioned) for
$ 1,731.39, signed by Allen, the contractor, and claimed credit
for it in Roberts's account.. This letter was received about the
1st of March.
On the 11th of May, 1843, this receipt was refused and returned, for the following reasons, viz. "I further certify, .that credit for said receipt was, and is, refused, for the reason that, by the ninth section of the act o 2d
July, 1836, it is made the duty of the Postmaster-General to
prescribe the manner in which postmasters shall pay over their
balances; that the Postmaster-General, in performance of this
duty, gave to Mr. Roberts certain printed instructions, constituting the only authority he had- for paying over the money he
had in his hands; and that the payment so alleged to have
been made by Mr. Allen was in direct violation of said instructions, and an evasion of the object therein intended to be secured, - the said object being, by restricting such payments -o
the blanks sent from the Department for each quarter for that
purpose, and by requiring the immediate transmission of one of
said receipts when executed, to charge the contractor on account of the same quarter with the amount, and to pay him
thereupon only the balance of pay remaining ; that no such
blanks were furnished for the payment in question; and thai,
43 *

SUPREME

510

COUIT.

The United States v. Roberts et al.

by using a manuscript receipt, not sanctioned by the instructions or practice of the Department, it remained in entire ignorance of any such payment, until the receipt was received from
Mr. Adams, as before stated, and until the co.ntracts of Mr. Allen had expired, and the full amount due him had been otherwise paid; and, finally, as the postmaster had no authority to
make such payment, his surety, Mr. Adams, had none to make
it for him.
"In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name,
my seal of office, at Washing[sEA..] and caused to be affixed
ton, this 6th day of November, in the year 1845.
"P.

G. WASHINGTON,

Auditor of Treasuryfor Post-Office Dep't."
The defendants, at first, allowed judgment to go against them
by default, but this was afterwards set aside, and they were
allowed to plead. The death of the defendant Adams was
afterwards suggested, and issue having been joined, the cause
came on for trial in December, 1845, when the jury found the
following verdict, viz. "We, the jury, find for the plaintiffs, aid assess their damages at the sum of fourteen hundred and eighty-five dollars and
twenty-nine cents; and the jury presented the following statement, made by them by direction of court, showing the calculations and allowances by which their said verdict was made up,
viz% - The jury allow the amount of $ 921.40, and for the
quarter from October to December, estimated at $1,009.43
2,018.86
.
.
.
.
doubled, making
921.40
2,940.26

1,731.39

Deduct for receipt,
Interest on

.

.

.

$921.40

1,208.87
276.42

6"
1,485.29
55.2840,
5
276.4200
"Judgment.
"It is therefore ordered and adjudaed, that the said plaintiffs
do recover ef and from the said defendants their debt in their

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

511

The United States v. Roberts et al.

declaration mentiofied, the sum of five thousand dollara..to be
released and discharged upon the payment of. fourteen hundred and eighty-five dollars and twenty-nine cents, the damages aforesaid, by the jury aforesaid assessed, as well as their
costs and charges herein expended, and lhat they have execution therefor," &c.
In the course of the trial the following bill of exceptions was
taken.
Bill of Exeptions.
United States Circuit Court for the District of Illinois, December Term, A. D. 1845.
THE UNITED STATES

OF

AmERICA

V.

JoHN

S.

ROBERTS

and

F. REED, survivors of James Adams, deceased.
Be it remembered, that this cause came on to be tried on the
19th day of December, A. D. 1845, at the December term of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Illinois, the Hon. Nathaniel Pope presiding; and the said plaintiffs, to prove and maintain the issues on their part, first introduced in evidence the bond on 'which this suit was brought, a
copy of whicl is attached to the declaration herein, and then
introduced in evidence the following certified statement of the
account of John S. Roberts, as postmaster ht Springfield, Illinois, to wit. (Then followed the certified account, as it has
been stated above.)
The plaintiffs, further to prove the issues on their part, then
read in: evidence the deposition of Robert B. Rust, as follows.
(Rust was a clerk in the Post-Office Department, and deposed
that no returns had been made by Roberts for the quarter ending 31st December, 1840, nor for that part of the succeeding
quarter between 1st January and 7th February, 1841.)
It was then admitted that Roberts went out of office on the
7th of February, 1841, and the plaintiffs there rested their case.
The defendants then offered in evidence the circular letter
of instructions from Amos Kendall, the Postmaster-General,
which has been given above. This was objected to on the
part of the United States, but the objection was waived in the
argument of the cause in this court.
The defendants then offered in evidence the receipt given
by Allen for-$ 1,731.39, above stated, the introduction of which
was objected to by the United States; but the court overruled
the objection, and permitted the paper to be read to the jury, to
which the plaintiffs excepted, on the ground that it did not appear that the claim of the defendants for the amount mentioned in said receipt had been presented to the Auditor of the
JAMES

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Roberts et al.

Treasury for the Post-Office Department for settlement, and
disallowed by him, and because the payment receipted for was
in violation of law, and contrary to the instructions of the Postmaster-General.
The defepdants then offered the certificate of P. G. Washington, And tor of the Treasury, disallowing the claim, which
certificate is given above.
-The dJefen ]ants then called Robert Allen, who executed the
receipt, as a .!itness, and offered to prove by him the circumstances under which the said receipt was given. The plaintiffs,
by their counsel, objected, first, to the competency of the said
Allen as a witness in this suit, on the ground that he was interested in the result of this suit ; and, secondly, because the
said receipt Was not given in the form prescribed by the Postmaster-General in his instructions; and, thirdly, that it was not
competent for the said defendants to explain the said receipt by
parol testimony-; the court overruled the said objections, and
allowed the said witness to testify'; to which decision of the
court the said plaintiffs, by their counsel, excepted
And the said Allen testified that he was a contractor for carrying the mail on route 2,701, at and before the date of the said
receipt; that the money mentioned in the said receipt, before
the execution thereof, had been paid to him by James Adams,
one of the sureties of the said John S. Roberts, in several small
payments, for which he had given him receipts; that afterSwards, some time in .the month of January, 1841, he took up
the said receipts, and gafe him the said receipt for $ 1,731.39;
that he never reported the receipt of the said money to the
Post-Office Department, but thinks that some time afterwards
he advised said Department thereof by letter, but could not
state at what time ; that he ceased to be contractor for carrying the mail on the 30th of June, 1842; that in March, 1844,
he received from the Postmaster-General a draft on the said J.
S. Roberts for $ 1,600; that he presented the same to the said
Roberts for payment, and could get nothing upon it, and returned the said draft to the Postmaster-General unpaid; that
he did not recollect whether it was before or after the receipt
of said draft"that he advised the Post-Office Department of the
reception of the money mentioned in said receipt for $ 1,731.39.
Said Allen further stated, that the government was indebted to
him, as contractor, five thousand dollars and upwards, and that
he had repeatedly applied for his account unsuccessfully
The said defendants then called James W. Keys, who testified that he succeeded the said Roberts, as postmaster at Spring'field; that he took charge of the post-office at said place on

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

513

The United States v. Roberts et al.

the 7th day of February, 1841. He was then asked by the
defendants, if, after he came into office, he made. payments to
Allen as contractor, and took receipts different from those prescribed by the Postmaster-General in the printed form; which
question was objected to by the said plaintiffs, first, for the
reason that no usages of the Post-Office Department can be"
proved variant from the printed instructions of the PostmasterGeneral ; and, second, because no practices pursued by the said
Keys, subsequent to the time Roberts went out of office, could
affect the rights of the plaintiffs in this suit; which objections
were overruled by the court, and the witness allowed to answer the question; to which decision the plaintiffs excepted.
The said witness then testified, that while in office he made
several payments to Allen, as contractor, and took his receipts,
but did not know if the said receipts varied from those prescribed by the printed instructions of the Postmaster-General;
that he always took duplicate receipts, and by the next mail
forwarded one of them to the Auditor for the Post-Office Department, and that they were passed to his credit; that after
he went out of office, on the 27th September, 1841, he paid
to the said Allen, as contractor, six hundred dollars, and- took
from him a receipt (which he produced) in the words and figures following, to wit: '1Rec'd, Sept. 27th, 1841, of James W. Keys, late P. Master
at Springfield, Ills., six hundred and fifty dollars in part of the
amt. due P. 0. Dept. for the fractional quarter ending the 7th
Sept., 1841.
It ROBERT ALLEN."

That he took a duplicate of the said receipt at the same time,
and immediately forwarded it to the Auditor of the Post-Office
Department, and that his account there was credited with the
amount of the same.
The defendants then introduced Allen Tomlin as a witness,
who testified that he was postmaster in Galena, in the State of
Illinois, from 1839 to the 4th of March, 1841 ; the witness was
then asked, if he had been in the habit of making payments,
as postmaster, to mail contractors, and taking manuscript receipts for such payments,. which were passed to his credit at
the Post-Office Department; which question was objected to
by the plaintiffs' counsel, on the ground that the rights of the
said plaintiffs in this case could not be prejudiced by the acts
or dealings of the said Tomlin; which objection was overruled
by the court, and witness allowed to answer the question; to
whichdecision the plaintiffs, by their counsel, excepted.

514

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Roberts et al.

The said witness then testified, that he had, in several instances, when postmaster at Galena, as aforesaid, made payments to mail contractors, and'took their receipts in manuscript;
that
he forms
could not state whether such receipts varied from the
Iprinted
or not, but that he always took duplicate receipts,
and immediately forwarded one to the Auditor for the PostOffice Department, and such receipts were there passed to his
credit.
The said defendants then called George Welch as a witness,
who testified -that he was a clerk in the post-office at Springfield during the time the said Roberts held said office, and some
time thereafter under his successor; that he thought the quarterly return of the said Roberts, as postmaster as aforesaid, for
the quarter ending December 31, 1840, was made up and sent
to the Post-Office Department. On cross-examination, the said
witness stated that he had no distinct recollection of the said
account for that quarter being made up or sent; that he could
recollect no fact in relation to it; that when he said, on his direct examination, that he thought the accounts had been made
up.for that quarter and sent, he merely thought so, because it
had been the usual practice to make up and send the accounts
for each quarter.
The defendants here rested.
The plaintiffs then introduced and read in evidence the depositions of Thomas A. Scott and Peter G. Washington, showing the state of the accounts 'vith the Department, the material
part of which depositions has been given in the preceding part
of this statement.
. The plaintiffs, by their counsel, then requested the court to
give to the jury the following instructions:
I. If the jury believe from the evidence that the said John
S., Roberts continued to hold and exercise the office of postmaster at Springfield, in the State of' Illinois, from th l date of
the said bond, upon which this suit is brought, until the 7th
day of February, 1841, and then went out of office, and that
he neglected to render his accounts, as such postmaster as aforesaid, for the period from October 1, 1840, to February 7, 1841,
inclusive, within orie month after the time, and in the form and
manner, prescribed by law, and by the Postmaster-General's instructions conformable therewith, or at any subsequent time,
then the plaintiffs are entitled to recover double the value of
the postages which arose at the same office in an equal portion
of time previo, thereto, amounting to the sum of $ 2,852.72,
as certified by the Auditor of the Treasury for the Post-Office
Department in his certified statement of the account of the said

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

515

The United States v. Roberts et al.

John S. Roberts, as postmaster as aforesaid; -hich said instruction was refused to be given by the court.
II. If the jury shall believe from the evidence, that the said
John S. Roberts held and exercised the said office for the time
stated in said first instruction, and neglected to render his accounts for the period stated in said first instruction within one
month after the expiration of the said period, or at any subsequent time, that theii the plaintiffs are entitled to recover
double the value of the postages, as certified, by the said auditor to have arisen at said post-office for the preceding quarter,
that is to say, from July 1st to September 30th, 1840; which
said instruction was given by the court.
III. If the jury believe the facts are as set forth in the certificate of the said auditor to the statement of the said John S.
Roberts's account, the'said plaintiffs are entitled to recover the
sum of $ 2,852.72 for double postages for the period that the
said Roberts neglected to render his accounts, as stated in said
certificate; which said instruction was refused to be given by
the court.
IV. If the jury believe from the evidence that the said
Roberts neglected to render his accounts, as postmastbr as
aforegaid, as certified by the said auditor as aforesaid, then the
said plaintiffs are entitled to recover the sum of $2,018.86.
being double the amount of postages ceitified by the said auditor to have been received at the same office for the next preceding quarter, that is to say, from the 1st of July to September, 30, 1840; which said instruction was given by the court.
V. The defendants in this cause are not entitled to a credit
for the amount of the receipt of $ 1,731.39, executed by Robert
Allen, the money mentioned in said, receipt having been paid without authority, and in violation of the instructions of-the
Postmaster-General; 'which said instruction was refused to be
given by the court.
VI. The said defendants are not entitled to a credit for the
said receipt of the said Robert Allen, unless the said receipt, or
the duplicate thereof, was sent by the next mail, or within a
reasonable time after it was executed, to the Auditor of the
Post-Office Department.
VII. If the said receipt, or the duplicate thereof, was not sent
to the Auditor of the Post-Office Department until more than
a year after its execution, and until after the statement and
adjustment of the accounts of the said Robert Allen, as contractor, at the Post-Office Department, as annexed .to the depositions of Thomas A. Scott and Peter G. Washington, the-defendants are not entitled to a credit or all6wance for the said
sum of money mentioned in said receipt.

516

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Roberts et al.

"Which said two last instructions were each refused to be
given by the court; but the court, in answer to the first four
instructions asked for by plaintiffs, charged the jury, " that the
officers of the Post-Office Lepartment had no right to calculate, as they did, that, if three months produced a. given sum,
four months and seven days would produce so much; that it
was proper for the jury to charge the'defendants with double
the postage received during the quarter ending 30th September, 1840, and this for the quarter ending December 31, 1840;
and, as the plaintiffs had furnished no datum for finding a verdict for the time from .1st January, 1841, to 7th February,
the jury could find nothing for that period."
In answer to the fifth, sixth, and seventh instructions asked
for by plaintiffs, the court further charged the jury, that if they
believed, from the testimony, that the $ 1,731.39 were paid to
Robert Allen before the 1st of July, 1841, and he was authorized
by the Department, under instructions to the postmaster, to receive it; and if they believed from the testimony that he received no money of the -United States which he was not
entitled to over and above the $ 1,731.39, the jury might allow
a credit for it to the defendants, although the receipt is not in
the form prescribed, and was not reported to the Department in
conformity to the instructions, as it could work no wrong to
the United States.
And the said plaintiffs, by their counsel, thereupon excepted
to the opinion of the court in refusing to give the first, third,
fifth, sixth, and seventh instructions, as asked for as aforesaid,
and also excepted to the said charge so given by the said court
to the said jury as aforesaid, and to each and every part and
proposition thereof.
The court then directed the jury to state in their verdict
what items and sums they should allow, and what they dis4
allowed, in making up said verdict.
The jury then' retired from-the bar, and afterwards, on the
same day, returned into court a verdict as follows. (The verdict has been given above.)
The United States sued out:a writ of error, and brought the
case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General), for the
United States, no counsel appearing for the defendants in error.
Mr. Tohnson made the following points: I. That the testimony of Allen, Keys, and Tomlins was im.
properly admitted, for the reasons set forth in the exceptions.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

517

The United States v. Roberts et ai.

I. That the instruction given by the judge, "that the PostOffice Department had no right to calculate as they did, that,
if three months produced a given sum, four months and seven
days would produce so much; that it was proper for the jury
to charge the defendants with double postage received during
the quarter ending 30th of September, and this for the quarter
ending 31st of December, 1840; and as the plaintiffs had fur-nished no return for finding a verdict for the time from 1st
January, 1841, to 7th February, the jury could find nothing
-for that period," was erroneous. Because the postage to be.
doubled, instead of being limited only to the previous quarter,
could have been ascertained within the meaning of the thirtysecond section of the act of 1825, for the whole time claimed;
Ist. By the mode adopted by the auditor; 2d. By the average of the two previous quarters, or any other two quarters ;
3d. By taking the last or any other quarter, and an average of
the previous quarter for the number of days necessary.
It will be contended, that one of these modes is authorized
by the law; because, if not, the law would be wholly inoperative in the case of a default for any period short of a whole
quarter.
" III. That the construction of the instructions of the Postmaster-General, made under the authority of the ninth section
of the act of 1836, was matter of law, and that the court should
therefore have granted the fifth, sixth, and seventh instructions
prayed by the plaintiffs, and should not, in answer to the said
prayers, have charged the jury that, on the facts stated in the
charge hypothetically, they might allow a credit of $ 1,731.39.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
There cannot be either security or efficiency in the business
of the Post-Office Department, unless its receipts and disbursements are made upon a fixed plan. It must be executed, too,
with uniformity and rigor. The duties of its officers must be
definitely prescribed, and enforced without relaxation. Nor
will there be either safety* or justice for the country, if the
forms enjoined for receiving ankd paying money are permitted
to be disregarded by its deputies. The es~ablishment under
our system must be made to support itself.
It is extended from day to day into territories, late wildernesses, and from place to place in and beyond them, through
prairies, swamps, and marshes, without any other trail than
those of the first wheels that passed over them. In the settled
parts of the country, new routes, changes of routes, increase of
speed in conveyances, and new conveyances, are daily demandvoL. Ix.
44

518

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Roberts et al.

ed to meet the conveniences and the wants of our almost
incalculable internal commerce. Neither the cost of them nor
the revenue can be anticipated. Sleepless vigilance in its
chief, sleepless devotion to its business, aided by the unremitting industry and intelligence of his assistants in the Department, can only meet their responsibility, as that is estimated by
public expectation.,
Such is the conviction of every one who has ever had any
connection with the Department, or of any one who has looked
into its operations as a point of liberal inquiry. Its deputies
and agents in every branch of its business see and feel the necessity of conformity to the rules prescribing their separate
duties. Postmasters in the most limited offices, and contractors
for the smaller or larger routes, have found that their best security for the preservation of their relations to eaqh other and
to the Department is a strict compliance with its instructions.
Several of them, acting in this spirit of subordination, have
honorably connected themselves with the Department, in the
estimation of the public.
Congress has legislated in such a spirit. From the beginning
of its legislation to the act of March, 1825, reducing into one
act all that had been previously passed, large duties were imposed upon the Postmaster-General, and there was given to
him a large discretion.
If looked at in detail, it is almost remarkable that any one
could be found to undertake them with the hope of discharging
both acceptably. It has been done, however, and the country
enjoys the benefit.
But it became necessary, from the enlargement of the business of the Department, to change its organization, and to provide a more effectual system for the settlement of its accounts.
It was done by the act of 1836. By the ninth section of that
act, the Postmaster-General is authorized to give instructions to
postmasters for accounting and disbursing. The thirty-second
section of the act of 1825 is, that if any postmaster shall neglect to render his account for one month after the time, and in
the form and manner, prescribed by law, and by the PostmasterGeneral's instructions conformable therewith, he shall forfeit
double the value of the postages which shall have arisen at the
same office in any equal portion of time, previous or subsequent
thereto; or in case no account shall have been rendered at the
time of the trial of such case, then such sum as the court and
jury shall estimate as equivalent thereto.
In this case, Roberts was the postmaster; Adams and Reed.
'were his securities.
The Postmaster-General sent to the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

519

The United States v. Roberts et aL

former instructions how he was to accopnt, and very precise
directions for paying contractors. They were the same as are
sent to all postmasters, excdpt as to the contractor to whom
money was to be paid. Blank forms of orders and receipts
were annexed for every collection. The order in the instructions is, -"
These forms, and no others, must be used in your
payments to contractors." If the contractor called in person,
no order was necessary. Two receipts, in that case, were to
be kept in the formprescribed, one of which the postmaster was
to keep, and the other is directed to be sent by the next mail
to the Auditor for the Post-Office Department. Roberts was
further instructed, that, if any other person calls for the money
as the agent of the contractor, he must produce two orders in
the prescribed form, signed by the contractor, with blank receipts annexed. After the agent was paid, both receipts were
to be filled up and signed. Both were to be left with the postmaster, one of which was to be forthwith sent to the Auditor
of the Department. He was told that these claims and orders
could not be sold, negotiated, or transferred ; that no credit
would be allowed him, for any payment to any other person
than the contractor or the person named in his order, &c.; &c.,
nor unless the receipt be dated on the day when the money is
paid. In his official bond, among others, - and it is the first
of his covenants,- he binds himself to execute the duties of
his office according to law and the instructions of the Postmaster-General, and faithfully once in three months, or oftetier
if required, to render accounts of his receipts and expenditures
as postmaster to the Post-Office Department; that he shall
faithfully account, in the manner directed by the PostmasterGeneral, for all moneys, bills, bonds, notes, receipts, and other
vouchers, which he shall receive as agent for the Department.
Thus instructed, forewarned, and bound, we can scarcely account for Mr. Roberts's disregard of his corresponding obligation
otherwise than that it was wilfully done. He failed to account
for the time stated in the record, and he claims in this suit, as
an offset against the demand of the United States, payments
which he says were made to Allen, the contractor, contrary to
his instructions, which the Department had not any knowledge
of for two years after the date of his receipt from Allen, and for
which amount Allen gave no credit when -his accounts were
finally settled at the Department. Such is the proof in the
case. Upon the trial, when the evidence on both sides had
been closed, the counsel for the United States asked that the
jury might be instructed, if they believed the evidence in the
case, that the defendant was liable for the amount which he

520

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Roberts et al.

said had been paid by him to Allen, and that the United States
were entitled to double the amount of the postages which
had accrued and been returned as the amount from the 1st of
July to the 30th of September, for the next quarter, ending on
the last day of December, for which Roberts did not make a
return; and at that rate for so much of the next quarter as the
defendant remained in office, for which also he had failed to
make a return.
In respect to the money said to have been paid to Allen,
there is not a fact in the cause which can raise even a remote
equity for its allowance. The facts are all the other way.
There was a violation of official duty in making them, if such
payments were ever really made for the purpose stated, unfairness in dealing, no credit having been given for the amount
when Allen's account was settled at the Department, and a
very wrong apprehension of right by the defendant, in his
claiming to be paid to him a sum for which he had subjected
the United States to a loss by an inexcusable disregard of his
instructions as to the manner alone in which he was permitted
to pay money to a contractor. As to the double charge for
postage in the account rendered against him, we think the calculation and the time for which it is made was properly done
by Mr. Whittlesey, the then Auditor of the Treasury for the
Post-Office Department. For the entire quarter unaccounted
for, there cannot be a doubt. There ought not to be any for
the portioh of the next quarter. His obligation to account for
and to pay both cannot be denied. It is admitted it was his
duty to return for an entire quarter, under the instructions of
the Postmaster-General. It is equally plain that, under the
thirty-second section of the act of 1825, if a postmaster shall
neglect to render his account for one month after the time, and
in the form and manner, prescribed by law, he becomes liable
to a double charge, according to the manner stated in that section. Then the only question is, whether that obligation to
make a return is not as binding upon a postmaster who leaves
office between the beginning and end of a quarter, as it is upon
one who shall leave office at the end of a quarter. Is he not
bound to make a return within one month after the expiration
of the'quarter, though he has been in office only for a part of
it? By the instructions of the Postmaster-General, he ought to
have done so within two days after the expiration of his quarter. Now whether the instruction or the law applies to the
obligation is not material. Under the law, and without the instruction, the liability is incurred. But if the case is put under
the instruction alone, we think the fair interpretation of it is,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

521

The United States v. Roberts et al

that it comprehends any time less than a quarter, as well as an
entire quarter. This construction may be made from its terms.
The postmaster is required to have the balance due by him
ready to be paid on demand at the end of each quarter. He is,
by the instructions, to make a retwn of what that amount is
two days after the expiration of the quarter. If he is not
ready to pay, and neglects to make his return, and says he is
not bound to do either because his office terminated before the
expiration of a quarter, does he not disregard the instruction as
to what he has received? If his neglect to render his accounts
be omitted for one month after the time, and in the form and
,manner, prescribed by law, it cannot be said he has not subjected himself to the penalty of a double charge, to be proportioned by what may have been received at his office in any
equal time previous or subsequent thereto. Nor can it be said,
bechuse no abcount was rendered in this instance, that there
was no datum for such a calculation to be made, or that he was
only liable to pay such an amount as a court and jury may
find, upon other evidence, to be an equivalent to the penalty
which he has incurred.
All of us think differently. The court below having refused
to give to the jury the first, fifth, sixth, and seventh instructions
which were asked by the counsel for the United States, the
judgment is reversed, and the cause will be, remanded for
further proceedings, in compliance with the opinion now given.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Illinois, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed,.and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venirefacias de novo, and for such further
proceedings to be had therein as shall be in conformity to the
opinion of this court, and as to law and justice shall appertain.

44*

