JANUARY TERM, 1850.

109

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of.Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed.

JADIES G.

WILSON,
SIMPSON,

APPELLANT,

v. ANDnEw P. SIMiPSoN, E. E.

JOSEPH FORSYTH, AND BAGDAD MILLS.

The documents showing the title to Woodworth's planing-machine are set forth in
cxt.nso in 4 Howard, 647, et sey.
The nizgnment from Woodworth and Strong to Toogood, Halstead, and Tyack
(4 Howard. 655) declared not to have been fraudulently obtained according to the
evidence in this case.
An it gnee of Wopdworth's planing-machine, having a right, under the decision in
4 Howard, to continue the use of the patented machine, has a right to replace
new cutters or knives ior those which are worn out.
The difference explained between repairing and reconstructing a machine.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Louisiana.
It was a continuation of the case of Simpson et al. v. Wilson,
reported in 4 Howard, 710, where a statement of the case is
given, which need not be here repeated. All the documents
relating to the patent and transfer of Woodworth's planingmachine are set forth in extenso in the case of Wilson v. Rousseau et al., 4 Howard, 647, et seq.
The report of the case in 4 Howard shows that the two
following questions were certified to this court, viz. :" 1. Whether, by law, the extension and renewal of the said
patent granted to-William Woodivorth, and obtained by William
W. Woodworth, his executor, inured to the benefit of the said
defendant, to the extent that said defendant was interested in
said patent before such renewal and extension.
"2. Whether, by law, the assignment of an exclusive right to
the defendant, by the original patentee or those claiming under
him, to use said machine, and to vend the same to others for
use, within the county of Escambia, in the Territory of West
Florida, did authorize said defendanlt to vend elsewhere than in
said county of Escambia, to wit, in the city of New Orleans,
Stdite of Louisiana, plank, boards, and other materials, prodVOL. M.
10

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Simpson et al.

ucts of a machine established and used within the said County
of Escambia, in the Territory of West Florida."
On the 18th of April, 1846, the decisions of the Supreme
Court in these questions were certified to the Circuit Court, as
follows :-"1. That, by law, the extension and renewal of the said patent granted to William Woodworth, and obtained by William
W. Woodworth, his executor, did not inure to the benefit of
said defendant to the extent that said defendant was interested
in said patent before such renewal and extension. But the law
secured to persons in the use of machines at the time the extension takes effect the right to continue the use of the same.
"12. That an assignment of an exclusive right to use a machine, and to vend the same to others for use, within the specified territory, does authorize an assignee to vend elsewhere,
out of the said territory, plank, boards, and other materials, the
product of such machine."
Thereupon, leave was granted by the Circuit Court to the
defendant, Forsyth, to amend his plea, and to the complainant
to amend his bill.
And thereupon the complainant amended his bill,
1. By charging that the mutual deed between Woodworth
and Strofg of the one part, and the assignees of Emmons's
patent (before mentioned), was procured by the !atter by fraud
upon Woodworth and Strong, not discovered until the extension of the patent.
2. That the defendants had put in operation one new machine since the extension of the patent of 1842 took effect, and
that they had rebuilt, by the addition of new parts, being substantial parts 'of Woodworth's invention, the old machines
which they had in actual use at the expiration of the first term
of the patent, so that they were practically no longer the same
machine; and thus that the use of those machines, under the
color of machines which had been in actual use at the expiration of that term, was a fraud upon the law.
Issue was joined upon these new matters. Evidence was
taken upon them, as well as upon the question of the extent
of infringement.
It is not necessary to insert this evidence, because the substance of it is stated in the opinion of the court.
On the 4th of May, 1849, the cause came on to be heard
before the Circuit Court, upon the bill, answers, replication, exhibits, and evidence, when the court decreed that the bill should
be dismissed.
The complainant appealed to this court.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

111

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

The cause was argued by Mr. Seward and Mr. Webster,
for the appellant, and by Mr. Gilpin and Mr. Westcott, for
the appellees.
Tu3 counsel for the complainant contended, 1. Thatthe mutual deed executed by and between William
Woodworth, James Strong, and William Tyack, D. H. Toogood, Daniel' Halstead, and Uri Emmons, was procured from
the said Woodworth and Strong by fraud, and is therefore
void; aild that this fraud vitiates and avoids the defendants'
title or right to the use of Woodworth's invention.
2. That the defendants' machines are used in fraud of the
law, and in violation of the complainant's rights.
In support of the first proposition it was urged, that Woodworth was the inventor of the machine, -which was of great
value, and that the consideration which was received by Woodworth and Strong in the mutual deed, viz. that of receiving
an assignment of Emmons's rights, was of no value whatever,
because Emmons had no rights to convey; and that this was
an intentional fraud upon Woodworth and Strong, practised
by Toogood, Halstead, and Tyack. It was also urged, that the
fraud thus established vitiated and avoided the claim of the defendants, because the mutual deed secures no part of the franchises of the extended term to assignees of the first term.
Whatever they have is derived only from the proviso in the
eighteenth section of the act of July 4, 1836. Those claiming the b6nefit of the extension must be lawfully possessed of
the right at the plose of the first term. But they acquire that
interest only by virtue of a valid assignment. It must be a
lawful title, capable of carrying all the incidental advantages,
whether conferred by the deed or conferred by law.
Proposition II. The defendants' machines are used in fraud
of the law, and in violation of complainant's rights.
The thing patented means the machine, which is a thing
that produces, and is not itself a product. It is proved that
a set of knives for surface work will do good work for from
sixty days to three months. That a Woodworth machine
cannot be operated more than three- months, without making the service knives, and the cutters for tonguing and grooving,
anew.
In the case of Wilson v., Rousseau and Easton, 4 Howard,
646, it was held that, under the eighteenth section of the act
of 1836, the exclusive right to make, use, and vend the thing
patented is vested in the patentee, with a reservation in favor
of the assignees or grantees of the right to use the thing pa-

112

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Simpson et al.

tented. That is to say, all assignees or grantees of the right
to use the thing patented, who had machines in use at the time
of the renewal, are by this reservation protected in the continued use of the specific machine or machines, but specially
excluded from the right to make.
The reservation is specially limited to the continued use of
the thing patented.
Mr. Justice Nelson, in the case referred to, (4 How. 646,)
sys,- " The clause, in terms, seems to limit studiously the
benefit, or reservation, or whatever it may be called, under or
from the new grant, to the naked right to use the thing patented ; not an exclusive right even for that, which might denote monopoly. Nor any right at all, much less exclusive, to
make and 'vend. That seems to .have been guardedly omitted."
There is a broad distinction between the continued use of
the invention, and the continued use of the machine patented.
The. former necessarily carries with it the right to construct,
whilst the latter excludes it. This distinction is clearly drawn
by Mr. Justice Nelson in the same case (4 How. 683). He
says, - "It may be said that the I thing patented' means the
invention or discovery, as held in McClurg v. Kingsland, 1 How.
202, and'that the right to use the I thing patented ' is what, in
terms, is provided for in the clause. That is admitted; but the
words, as used in the connection here found, with the right
simply to use the thing patented, not the exclusive right, which
would be a monopoly, necessarily refer to the patented machine, and not to the invention ; and indeed it is in that sense
that the expression is to be understood, generally, throughout
the patent law, when taken in connection with the right to
use, in contradistinction to the right to make and sell." Again:
-"The ' thing Patented ' is the invention; so the machine is
the thing patented, and to use the machine is to use the invention, because it is the thing invented, and in respect to which the
exclusive right is secured, as is also held in McClurg v. Kingsland. The patented machine is frequently used as equivalent
for the I thing patented,' as well as for the invention or discovery, and no doubt, when found in connection with the exclusive right to make and vend, always means the right of'property in the invention, -the monopoly. But when in connection with the simple right to use, the exclusive right to make
and vend being in another, the right to use the thing patented
necessarily results in a right to use the machine, and nothing
more." It is therefore unquestionable, under this ruling of the
Supreme Court, that the reservation is strictly limited to a right

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

112

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

to the continued use of the specific machine or machines legally in use at the time of the rene'wal.
Let us ascertain with precision what this reservation is. It
is not a reservation of the entire right to use the invention, as
was ruled in the case of MAlcClurg v. Kingsland, for the doctrine
on which that case rests was expressly ruled out in the case of
Wilson v. Rousseau and Easton, and the reservation, expressly
limited to the continued use of the specific machine or machines in existence at the time of the renewal.
It necessarily results from this ruling, that the reservation
applies only to such inventions as are embodied in tangible,
material form. Processes which are only directory, and simply teach how a product or result is to be obtained, do not
come within the reservation, because these have no visible material existence ; - such, 'for instance, as the process of tanning
leather by submitting hides to the chemical action of a solution
of such substinces as contain the tannin principle; the process
of curing India-rubber by mixing it with sulphur, and then
subjecting it to the action of artificial heat, by which'process
this valuable substance is so changed as not to be affected by
the changes of temperature, and by which it is also rendered
insoluble; the various processes of bleaching fibrous and textile
'substances ; the processes of fixing colors on fabrics by the use
of what are called mordants, which, by their chemical action
on the colors, render them 'insoluble in water; Daguerreotyping, which consists in preparing the surface of a metal plate,
with certain chemical agents, to render it so sensitive to tlte
chemical action" of light as to receive the impression of the
lights and shadows of any object reflected on its surface; and
a variety of other processes in the useful and fine arts, too
numerous to specify, but which present some of the greatest
triumphs which modern inductive science has applied to the
wants of man.
All these do not come under the reservation of the 18th section of the act of 1836, as expounded in the case of Wilson v.
Rousseau and Eas.ton, because they have no tangible material
existence. They are simply mental processes, which direct
how and what matters to treat to produce the required results,
and when the results are produced there is an end of the thing
patented. True, the application of the process may require
complex and costly apparatus; but unless such apparatus, as is
sometimes the case, be not in itselt the subject-matter of patent,
the reservation does not apply, tor the thing patented at the
time of the renewal has no material existence. It is the thing
patented, when existing in a material form at the time of the
10*

114

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Simpson et al.

new grant, to which the reservation applies alone, and not to
the invention irrespective of this material existence.
True, the~hcensee or grantee of the right to use the invention may have invested thousands of dollars in the erection of
costly apparatus by which to apply a patented process, such
costly apparatus not being the subject-matter of the -patent,
and, the moment the patent is renewed the costly apparatus becomes useless as regards its use under the license, but nevertheless it is not a waste, for the value of the patent to the patentee arises from the fact that it is vendible, and both the
invention and the apparatus used in the application of it,
being vendible things, can become the subjects of barter and
sale.
We have thus shown that the reservation applies only to
one class of inventions, namely, such as require the investment
of capital in the thing patented; for there is a broad distinction
between the investment of capital in the thing patented, and
in apparatus and appliance§ for the application of the thing patented. For instance, the reservation does not apply nor look to
the capital invested in workshops, warehouses, and the preparation of operatives to conduct a patented process. A licensee
under the patent for casting iron rolls, which was the thing
Kingsland, may have expatented in the case of McClurg t;.
pended thousands of dollars in the erection of workshops, in
flasks and other moulds for casting chilled rolls under that patent, and in the preparation of operatives for carrying into effect the thing patented, but the moment the first term of the
patent expires, and it is renewed, he cannot claim the right to
the continued use of the invention under the renewed term,
because the thing patented perishes or is destroyed by the act
of.a single use. It consists in so moulding the sand in which
the roll is to be cast, as to make the channel through which
the molten iron is to be poured into the moulds a tangent to
the circle, that, in running in, it may take a whirling or circular
motion, and thus, by the law of centrifugal force, throw the
heavier or denser partidles of iron outward, to form the outer
surface of the roll or cylinder, the dross and less pure particles
going towards the centre.. In this case, the thing patented has
no material existence beyond the single use. The moment
the effect is produced, the thing patented is at an end.; for
the mould, being made of sand, is destroyed by the very act
of producing the effect, and must be made over again for another application of the thing patented.
We shall allude again to this particular case in an after part
of the argument.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

115

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

As the reservation applies onily to things patented which
have a material, tangible existence, the question arises, in such
cases, How long does this reserved right to use continue, or
when does it expire ? If it was a reservation to the right of
the invention, as contended for by those who cited the case of
McClurg v. Kingsland in the argument ih the case of Wilson v.
Rousseau and Easton, most unquestionably it would be without
limit; but that was overruled by the Supreme Court, because
of the broad distinction between the right to the invention, and
the right to the continued use of the material machine patefited, as we have already shown. Now, then, when does this
reserved right to the continued use of the material machine
patented cease? If it was coupled with the right to make,
still it would be without limit.* But as it was expressly ruled
that the right to make is an exclusive right vested in the patentee, as a necessary consequence the reservation must expire
with the existence of the material thing patented; the one,
being an entire dependant of the other, must of necessity expire with it, as the branch dies with the trunk,
When the thing patented no longer has material existence,
there is no longer any reserved right. This brings us to the
inquiry, When does the material thing patented cease to exist?
The answer to this inquiry must clearly'be, and can only be,
when it is worn out or destroyed. For when, by any event,
the material thing patented no longer exists, it can only be
renewed under the authority of the exclusive right to make
the thing patented, and therefore the reserved right expires
the moment that the material thing patented is worn out or
destroyed. This is manifest, and there is no flying from the
conclusion.
This brings us to the final and most important branch of the
argument. When does the material thing patented cease to
exist? To ascertain this, we must first determine what is the
thing patented, for we must first know that a thing was, before
we can know that it is no more. That the thing patented is
the thing invented, we have before shown to be the doctrine
of the court in Wilson v. Rousseau and Easton.
Woodworth did not invent the frame, the cog-wheels, and
shafts, and other elementary parts, which, when put together,
constitute what is known as the Woodworth planing-machine.
These are the mere appliances, -the
mere elements of machinery, -which are as free for every man to use as the air he
breathes. Nor did he invent the roller for making pressure to
control the plank, nor the cutting instruments for planing, nor
the cutter-beads or stocks to which the cutters are attached.

116

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v.

Simpson et al.

These, too, are public property, and at every man's command,
to be freely made. and used. As' he did not invent any of
these, and does not claim them in the letters patent as the
thing patented, so the making of them does not come within
the exclusive right to make, vested in the administrator by
the renewal of the patent ; nor does the use of them require
the reservation of the statute. What, then, is the thing patented? Why, simply the combination of the cutting instruments or planes with the pressure-roller, or an analogous device.
The combining or putting these together, to effect the planing
of planks, is the thing patented, because it is the thing invented ; and in this sense the thing invented is the- thing patented.
As the making these things separately is not making the thing
patented, the act of'combining or putting them together, so
that they shall be able to effect the planing of planks, is alone
the making of the thing patented, the doing which is the exclusive privilege of the patentee.
If, then, as must be obvious, the putting or combining of
these elements together in one machine is the making of the
thing patented, then the converse of the proposition must also
be true; namely, that the moment this combination ceases to
exist, so soon the thing patented is extinct, and can only be renewed by the exercise of the right to make. We do not press
this to the technical length of asserting that the simple act of
disconnecting these elementary parts, such, for instance, as temporarily taking the roller or the cutting instruments- out of the
machine, destroys the thing patented, for that is merely a temporary act, with the intention to restore. But when any one of
these elements is either worn out by use, or otherwise destroyed, then the combination invented - the thing patented - no
longer exists, and cannot be restored without the exercise of
the right to make. The capital which has been invested not in the-appliances to, but in the thing patented - has performed its office ; it has lasted its days and vanisned, and with
it tue reserved right which belonged to it alone. But, it may
be said, it is a hardship for the man who invested his capital in
the purchase of an entire machine, that he should be deprived
of the use of it because one part only has worn out. The
question of individual hardship cannot control the settlement
of great legal questions. In the language of Ir. Justice Nelson in Wilson v. Rousseau. and Easton, "We must remember
that we are not dealing with the decision of the particular case
before us, though that is involved in the inquiry, but with a
general system of great practical interest to the country; and
it is the effect of our decision upon the operation of the sys-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

117

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

tern that gives to it its chief importance." If the question of
pecuniary hardship could have a legitimate influence, it would
not be difficult to demonstrate how much greater the, hardship
is to the patentee, by reason of the reservation under the most
limited construction; than on the part of the grantee, by reason of the loss of the remnant of the machine, after the thing
patented is worn out. But what becomes of the question of
hardship in other cases where the thing patented has no material existence, as in the case of a chemical process requiring
costly apparatus for the application of the process, which is the
thing patented?
Let us take, for illustration, the patent granted to Charles
Goodyear, for curing, or, as it is termed, vulcanizing India-rubber, by mixing it with sulphur, and then baking it by exposure
to heat. The thing patented in this instance is a process, an
immaterial thing which has no visible existence. It is simply
a rule of procedure. But this rule of procedure can only be
applied to produce the desired effect by means of costly machinery for grinding and mixing the India-rubber and sulphur,
and moulds, and ovens, or boilers, for baking. Many manufacturers have been licensed to work under this patent. By reason
of great poverty, occasioned by many years of fruitless experiments in search of this great discovery, he was compelled to
grant licenses far below their actual value. Should he obtain
a renewal of this patent, as the thing patented is not a machine,.and has no material existence, the licensees or grantees
will not come under the reservation, will not the pecuniary 'loss
to them be greater than any that can be sustained by the grantees under the Woodworth patent? Most assuredly it will, and
yet for these there will be no remedy. They, however, as the
grantees under the Woodworth patent, have received more than
their reward; and so it will always be in similar cases, because
none but valuable inventions can be renewed, and when the inventions have been of sufficient value to authorize the renewal,
those who have used them have been remunerated.
But, as we before submitted, the hardship to the licensee or
grantee is not a matter that can affect the judicial construction.
The inquiry must look to the naked fact, when the material
machine or thing patented ceases to exist.
(The counsel then proceeded to illustrate the above principles by other examples.)
The counsel for the defendants made the following points.
I. The Circuit Court, as a court of equity, had no jurisdiction under the acts of Congress, the parties not being citizens

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Simpson et al.

of Louisiana, the subject of controversy not arising there, the
equitable relief not being applicable there, and the right of the
complainant not having been established at law. Act of 1789,
§ 11.(1 Stat. at Large, 78); Act of 1793, § 5 (1 Stat. at
Large, 322); Act of 1800, § 3 (2 Stat. at Large, 37); Act
of 1819, § 1 (3 Stat. at Large, 481); Act of 1836, § 17 (5
Stat. at Large, 124); Act of 1839, § 11 (5 Stat. at Large,
354).
II. If the Circuit Court. possess the fullest equitable jurisdiction, still the complainant cannot, on the general and well-settled principles which govern the interposition of a court of
equity, obtain redress by such a bill; nor is he entitled to such
relief as he asks.
He must establish at law the infringement of his right to
the "thing patented," the illegal use thereof by the defendants,
and the damages he has sustained thereby. His right in
equity is merely to restrain the continued illegal use of the
thing patented, when so established.
By what principle or rule, governing a court of equity, can
he ask it, in an action such as this, and between these parties,
to declare an agreement between other parties, and all rights
under it, void?
What part of the patent law entitles the complainant to an
account?
How. are damages for the infringement to be ooaneu by pror
ceedings in equity ? Act of 1836 (5 Stat. at Large, 117, 123);
2 Story's Eq. § 794 et seq., § 934; .Dwarris on Statutes, 744;
Curtis on Patents, 358, 370, 375, 381, and cases cited; Phillips
on Patents, 452; Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gallison, 429; Miller v. Ta.-'r, 4 Burr. 2400; Hill v. Thompson, 3 Meriv. 622:
Bailey 5v. Taylor, 1 Russ. & Mylne, 74; 3 Mylne & Craig,
735; 4 Mylne & Craig, 435, 487; 1 Woodb. & Min. 435, 220,
280, 290, 376; 2 Woodb. & Min. 28.
Ill. The complainant has no title on which he can found an
action against the defendants. They claim no interest adverse
to his. He holds the exclusive right to make, use, and vend
the machines in Escambia County, Florida, under the new or
extenddd grant. These machines are not made gr used in contravention of that grant; they are no infringement of "the
thing patented" to him; the defendants have not made, -used,
or sold the thing patented to him. The act of 1836, § 14, (5
Stat. at Large, 123,) establishes his right to sue, and cannot beconstrued to embrace a machine, lawfully made, before his
grant accrued. Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How. 681, 682, 684;
Jacob's Law Dict., Quitclaim, Assignment.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

119

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

IV. Nor is the machine used by the defeiudants proved to be
identical with that to which the complainant claims the exclusiv* right.
They held under the patent of Emmons as much as that of
Woodworth; both patents were identical in many respects; the
testimony is entirely imperfect and insufficient so far as it desdribes the exact character or construction of the machines
used by the defendants.
Woodworth purchased the right to use Emmons's patent during the existence of his first grant, and held this right when
the defendants took their assignment ; there is no .proof, in this
action, to show how far the defefndants' machines, though
called "1Woodworth's," were made under one right or the other.
The only "Woodworth machine 11 traced to the possession of
the defendants never was used by them.
V. The right of defendants to use Woodworth's planingmachine (whether constructed under Woodworth's patent exclusively, or under that and Emmons's combined) in Escambia
County, Florida, was completely vested on the 1st of June,
1836. The assignments were according to law. Act of 1793,
§ 4 (1 Stat. at Large, 322).
The claim of title, as set out in the record, is complete.
The agreement of 28th November, 1829, is founded on a full
and legal consideration; the attempt to establish its invalidity
on the ground of fraud is totally unsustained by any evidence,
and at variance with the whole conduct of Woodworth and
the character of his proceedings.. The assignments subsequent
to the agreements are in due form; they were all duly recorded, though this was not required by any act in existence at
the time when-the title of Forsyth was complete.
But it is altogether immaterial in this suit whether this be
so or not. The complainant (Wilson) cannot avail himself of
it. The machine is no infringement of his right. It was
erected aitd used under Woodworthls right; it was in being
when that terminated. If illegally used, it was and is an infringement of that right, - not of the complainant's ; and to
Woodworth and his representatives alone belongs the claim for
redress.
VI. After the decision of this court (Simpson v. Wilson, 4
How. 711), it is needless to answer the allegations of the bill
which charge the act of vending the products of the machine
elsewhere than in Escambia County as an infringement. That
decision has conclusively affirmed his right to do so.
VII. The right of the defendants, as established by the act
of 1836, and confirmed by the Supreme Court, is the right to

120

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Simpson et al.

"continue to use" the "thing patented" to the extenl of their
interest therein. This is all they have done; they have not
exercised, during the renewed term, any other right derived
under the assignment; they have not made or vended any machine; they have merely continued to use that which they
had in use when the original term expired.
The attempt to sustain the allegations of the bill, which charge
the defendants with fitting up new machines since the 27th of
December, 1842, or so reconstructing the old ones, since that
time, as to make them essentially new ones, has totally failed.
The evidence produced by the complainant negatives the allegations on bqth points. In allowing the continued use of the
machines in existence on the 27th of December, 1842, this
court evidently .contemplated such repairs as were required to
preserve them. Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How. 707; Woodworth
v. Curtis, 2 Woodb. & Minot, 528 ; Boyd v. Brown, 3 McLean,
295; -Boyd v. McAlpin, 3 McLean, 427.
Mr. Justice WAYNL; delivered the opinion of the court.
In the argument of this case, the counsel for the appellant put
his right to the relief sought by his bill upon two points. We
will consider them in the order in which they were presented.
The appellant's first point is, that the title and right of the
defendants to use the Woodworth invention are taken from
them by the fraud and artifice of Emmons, Tyack, Toogood,
and Halstead, in procuring from Woodworth and Strong the
deed of the 28th of December, 1829. (Rec. 51, 52.)
The fraud alleged in the bill is, that Emmons, having pirated
Woodworth's invention, contrived, by misrepresentation, to get
a patent for the same, and, in conjunction 'with Toogood, Halstead, and Tyack, falsely and fraudulently represented to
Woodworth, and to Strong, his- assignee, that Emmons was
the first inventor of the planing-machine, for which Woodworth had received the first patent; and that Woodworth and
Strong, regarding it possible that such might be the fact, not
suspecting any fraudulent device, and fearing, notwithstanding
Woodworth knew the invention to be his own; it might be established against him, executed the agreement of the 28th of
November, 1829, for which no other consideration was received
than Emmons's pirated patent..
The ease is before us upon the original bill, and as it was
afterwards amended, upon answers and replication. The defendants traverse this allegation of fraud, as fully as persons so
situated can do, and deny any notice or knowledge about it,
when they became the assignees of the invention for a valua-"

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

121

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

ble consideration. The complainant, then, must establish his
charge by pioofs. We think it has not been done.
The proof relied upon is, that, though Emmons received a
patent for what he claimed to be his invention, it was subsequently proved to be identical with the principle of Woodworth's machine, and had been pirated from it. That, at the
time Emmons applied for a patent, he had not, in any way,
carried his machine into such a practical result, either in a
model or execution, as to entitle him to letters patent. To this
is added the declaration of two witnesses, Harris and Gibson, in
a joint deposition, - (one of them we may suppose interested,
from not having disavowed it, as his associate Gibson does,) "that they called upon Emmons in the city of New York,
several years since, and shortly previous to his death, for the
purpose of obtaining information in relation to an invention of
a planing-machine, said to have been invented by him while
residing at Syracuse. That he then informed them, that in
the year 1824, being engaged in the erection of salt-vats at
Syracuse, he had contrived a machine by which the plank used
for salt-vats could be joined by means of knives upon a revolving cylinder. That he went so far as to satisfy himself,
that boards and plank might be joined in that way; but the
machine was never so far completed as to perform work with
it; that he left Syracuse in July, 1824, and thought no more
of the subject, until after William Woodworth had -obtained
his patent, when he was employed by Toogood, Tyack, and
Halstead to defeat it."
Such is the testimony in this record in support of the charge,
that the mutual deed of the 2bh of November, 1829, was obtained by fraud. It is under that deed that the defendants
claim the .right to use the Woodworth macinnes in their possessibn.
Apart from the insufficiency of such testimony, in combination or separately, to establish the fraud, if we suppose it had
been sworn to by Eminons, it would be only hearsay, and not
within any exception to the rule rejecting hearsay testimony.
It is 'not so, on account of its being a dying declaration, or
one made by Emmons at variance with his interest. Neither
can it be brought under the exception, as an admission by one
who is a party to a suit with others identified in interest with
him; nor as comifig from one having any interest in the suit,
without being a party to the record with others who are so.
And it is not the admission of one interested in the subjectmatter of the sfiit, where the law, in regard to that source of
evidenee, looks chiefly to the parties in interest, and gives to
vOL. Ix.
11

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Simpson ot &I.,

their admissions the same weight as though they were parties
to the record.
In fact, the declaration said to have been made by Emmons
is merely hearsay; it cannot be made evidence for any purpose, of itself, or in connection with any other proof in the case
not liable to any objection; it can neither aid nor be aided by
other evidence.
We have put its exclusion on the ground stated, on account
of the relations which the record shows Emmons had with
some of the partie.i, rather than upon the little credit to which
such a declaration from him would be entitled, from the difference and oppositi6n between it and such as Emmons must
have made when he applied for, and obtained, letters patent for
what he claimed to be his intention.
Let us suppose, however, Emmons to be a competent witness to avoid hn instrument obtained by the fraudulent devices of himself and his associates; and that there were independent corroborating proofs in confirmation of his credit in
such a case. Still the declaration imputed to him would not,
in any way, have disparaged the right or title of the assignees
under the deed of the 28th of December, 1829, their right having been acquired without notice of the fraud which the complainant says was practised upon Woodworth and Strong.
The complainant can have no benefit under the first point
urged by his counsel.
The second point upon which the counsel rely is, that the
defendants, as assignees under the deed, continue to use their
machines, in fraud of the law, and in violation of the rights of
the complainant. 'The specifications under the general proposition are, that the defendants have substituted other machines
for those used by them, before the expiration of the first term
of Woodworth's patent. That they have reconstructed Woodworth's entire combination in the frames of their old machines,
or, supplied an essential constituent part of it, to continue in
use those machines which this court said they had a right to
use as assignees, when this case was before it, upon certified
points, in the year 1846. 4 How. 709, 711.
There is no proof of either the first or second specification.
But the questions which were argued by counsel, -- when repairs destroy identity and encroach upon invention, or when the
thing patented ceases to exist, so as to exclude the repair or
replacement of any one part of its *combination, in connection
with the rest of it, not requiring repair, or to be replaced, - are
before the court upon the evidence in the record.
We admit, for such is the rule in Wilson v. Rousseau, 4

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

123

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

Howard, that when the material of the combination ceases to
exist, in whatever way that may occur, the right to renew it
depends upon the right to make the invention. If the right
to make does not exist, there is no right to rebuild the combination.
But it does not follow, when one of the elements of the combination has become so much worn as to be inoperative, or has
been broken, that the machine no longer exists, for restoration
to its original use, by the owner who has bought its use.
When the wearing or injury is partial, then repair is restoration,
and not reconstruction.
Illustrations of this will occur to any one, from the frequent
repairs of many machines for agricultural purposes. Also from
the repair and replacement of broken or worn-out parts of
larger and more complex combinations for manufactures.
In either case, repairing partial injuries, whether they occur
from accident or from wear and tear, is only refitting a machine
for use. And it is no more than that, though it shall be a replacement of an essential part of a combination. It is the use
of the whole of that which a purchaser buys, when the patentee sells to him a machine; and when he repairs the damages
which may be done to it, it is no more than the exercise of
that right of care which every one may use to give duration to
that which he owns, or has a right to use as a whole.
This foundation of the right to repair and replace, and its
application to the point we are considering, will be found in
the answers which every one will give to two inquiries.
The right to repair and replace in such a case is either in
the patentee, or in him who has bought the machine. Has the
patentee a more equitable right to force the disuse of the
machine entirely i on account of the inoperativeness of a part of
it, than the purchaser has to repair, who has, in the whole of
it, a right of use ? And what harm is done to the patentee in
the use of his right of invention, when the repair and replacement of a partial injury are confined to the machine which the
purchaser has bought ?
Nothing is gained against our conclusion by its being said
that the combination is the thing patented, and that, when its
intended result cannot be produced from the deficiency of a part
of it, the invention in the particular machine is extinct. It
is. not so. Consisting of parts, its action is only suspended
by the want of one of them, and its restoration reproduces the
same result only, without the machine having been made
anew. Of course, when we speak of the right to restore a part
of a deficient combination, we mean the part of one entirely

124

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Simpson et al.

original, and not of any other patented thing which has been
introduced into it, to aid its intended performance.
Nor is it meant that the right to replace extends to every
thing that may be patented. Between repairing and replacing
there is a difference.
Form may be given to a piece of any material, - wood,
metal, or glass, - so as to produce an original result, or to aid the
efficiency of one already known, and that would be the subject for a patent. It would be the right of a purchaser to repair such a thing as that, so as to give to it what was its first
shape, if it had been turned from it, or, by filing, grinding, or
cutting, to keep it up to the performance of its original use.
But if, as a whole, it should happen to be broken, so that its,
parts could not be readjusted, or so much worn out as to be
useless, then a purchaser cannot make or replace it by another,
but he must buy a new one. The doing of either would be
entire reconstruction.
If, however, this same thing is a part of an original coihbination, essential to its use, then the right to repair and replace
recurs. That this is so may be more satisfactorily shown by
the Woodworth planing-machine than any other we know, and
particularly by the complaint here made against these defendants.
Woodworth's greatest merit, showing his inventive genius, is
the adaptation of a well-known tool to a new form and mechanical action, giving an almost wonderful efficiency to its
use, and which, in the hundred efforts which had been made
before, had not been accomplished. We mean its cutters for
planing, tonguing, and grooving.
The complaint now is, that the defendants, in the use of
their old machines, have replaced new cutters for those which
were worn out, imfraud of the ruling of this court in its answer
to the first point certified when this case was formerly here.
Simpson et al. v. Wilson, 4 Howard, 709.
This court then said, that the renewal of the patent granted
to William Woodworth, to William W. Woodworth, his executor, did not inure to the benefit of the defendants, to the
extent they were interested in it before the renewal and extension, but that the law saved to persons in the use of the
machines at the time the extension took effect the right to
continue the use. Simpson et al. v. Wilson, 4 How. 711.
Wilson and Rousseau's case, in 4 Howard, was very fully
considered by this court. There were differences of opinion
between the judges, as to the interest which assignees of an invention had in it under the eighteenth section of the act of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

125

Wilson v. Simpson et al.

1836, after the expiration of the first term of a patent, when-there
had been a renewal and extension of it. But it certainly did
not occur to either of us, that the language then used by the
court, and afterwards in Simpson et al. v. Wilson, could make
any difficulty in its application, or that it was subject to misapprehension.
It does not permit an assignee of the first term of a patent,
after its renewal and extension, to make other machines, or to
reconstruct it, in gross, upon the frames of machines which the
assignee had in use when the renewal and extension of the
patent took effect. But it does comprehend and permit the resupply of the effective ultimate tool of the invention, which is
liable to be often worn out or to become inoperative for its intended effect, which the inventor contemplated would have to
be frequently replaced anew, during the time that the machine,
as a whole, might last.
The proof in the case is, that one of Woodworth's machines,
properly made, will last in use for several years, but that its
cutting-knives will wear out and must be replaced at least
every sixty or ninety days.
The right to replace them was a part of the invention transferred to the assignee for the time that he bought it, without
which his purchase would have been useless to him, except for
sixty or ninety days after a machine had been put in use. It
has not been contended, nor can it be, that such can be a limitation of the assignee's right in the use of the invention.
If, thebi, the use of the machine depends upon the replacement of the knives, and the assignee could replace them from
time to time, as they were needed, during the first term of the
patent, though they are an essential and distinct constituent of
the principle or combination of the invention, frequently replacing them, according to the intention of the inventor, is not
a reconstruction of the invention, but the use only of so much
of it as is absolutely necessary to identify the machine with
what it was in the beginning of its use, or before that part of
it had been worn out.
The right of the assignee to replace the cutter-knives is not
bedause they are of perishable materials, but because the inventor of the machine has so arranged them as a part of its
combination, that the machine could not be continued in use
without a succession of knives at short intervals. Unless they
were replaced, the invention would have been but of little use
to the inventor or to others. The other constituent parts of
this invention, though liable to be worn out, are not made with
reference to any use of them which will require them to be
11*

126

SUPREME COURT.
Wilson v. Simpson et al.

replaced. These, without having a definite duration, are contemplated by the inventor to last so long as the materials of
which they are formed can hold together in use in such a
combination. No replacement of them at intermediate intervals is meant or is necessary. They may be repaired as the
use may require. With such intentions, they are put into the
structure. So it is understood by a purchaser, and beyofid the
duration of them a purchaser of the machine has not a longer
use. tut if another constituent part of the combination is
meant to be only temporary in the use of the whole, and to be
frequently replaced, because it will Alot last as long as the other
parts of the combination, its inventor cannot complain, if he
sells the'use of his machine, that the purchaser uses it in the
way the inventor meant it to be used, and in the only way in
.which the machine can be used.
Such a replacement of temporary parts does nt alter the
identity of the machine, but preserves it, though there may not
be in it every part of its original material.
. Such being the case, and this court having determined that
the statute providing for the extension and 'enewal of patents
saves the rights of assignees in the use of the machines which
they may have in operation when the extension takes effect,
we do not think that the defendants in this case, from having
replaced cutter-!nives in their machines, have been using them
in fraud of the law, or in violation of the rights of the com-

plainant.
. We shall, therefore, direct the decree of the court below,
dismissing the complainant's bill, to be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is nour here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

