%qc

SUPREME COURT,
Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et 4L

LESSEE, PLAINTIFF, V. LUCIUS B. Onis,
ADMINISTRATOR, MARGARET DICKINSON, WIDOW, AND EDWARD F.,
JULIA S., MARGARET 0., JOHN B. B., RODOLPHUS, MARTHA J.&n
AND JAIES A . DICKINSON, MINOR CHILDREN, OF RODOLPHUS Dicx.
INSON, DECEASED , BY L. 0. RAWSON, THEIR GUARDIAN AND NEXT
FRIEND,, ET AL.

THoMAs E. BoSWELL's

The chancery act of Ohio of 1824 confers on the Court of Common Pleas general
chancery powers. The twelfth section gives jurisdiction over the rights of absent
defendants, on the publication of notice, "in all cases properly cognizable in courts
of equity, where either the title to, or boundaries of, land nay come in question, or
where a suit in chancery becomes necessary in order io obtain the rescission of a
contract for the conveyance of land, or to compel the specific execution of such
contract."
A bill being filed to compel the specific execution of a contract relating to land
where the defendants were out of the State, the court passed a money decree, and
ordered the sale of other lands than those mentioned in the bill.

This decree was void, and no title passed to the purchaser at the sale ordered by the
decree.

The act did not authorize such an act of general jurisdiction. A special jurisdiction
only was given in rem.
Jurisdiction is acquired in one of two modes, - firs; as against the person of the defendant, by the service of process, or secondly, by a procedure against the property

of the defendant within the jurisdiction of the court. In the latter case. the defendant is not personally bound by the judgment, beyond the property in question.

THIs case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States fot Ohio, upon a certificate bf division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an ejectment brought by Boswell, a citizen of Kentucky, against Rodolphus Dickinson and others, tenants in possession, to recover tract number seven in the United States reserve, of two miles square, at Lower Sandusky, in the State of
Ohio. Dickinson having died, his heirs and representatives
were now parties.
Before relating the proceedings in the ejectment, it is proper
to notice some other occurrences which were prior in time.
In May, 1825, Thomas L. Hawkins filed a bill in the Sandusky Common Pleas, against Thomas E. Boswell, William T.
Barry, and William Whitimore. The bill stated that all these
parties were engaged, as partners, in building a saw-mill upon
lot number nine; that they went on with the work until 1823;
that he, Hawkins, was a creditor of the concern; that the
other parties had obtained a title to two thirds of the lot, and
refused to convey any part of it' to the complainant. The bill
then concludes thus: - "To the end, therefore, that said Boswell, Barry, and Whitimore may, under their corporeal oaths, true
answers make to all matters herein charged, and on the final
hearing of this cause your honors will decree that said defendants convey one fourth of the said.land to which they have ob-

JANUARY TERM; 1850.

837

Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et aL

tained a legal title) and also to account to your orator for the
money and time he has expended more than his share on said
mill, and the improvements of said land, and that notice be
given defendants," &c.
It being made known that the defendants were non-residents
of the State, but resided im the States of Kentucky and Massachusetts, motice of the pendency of the suit was published in
the Western Statesman, a newspaper printe& at Columbus,
Ohio, for the term of nine weeks successively.
At May term, 1826, a decree was passed that the bill should
be taken pro confesso, and a master was di.ected to take an account between the parties, who reported a balance due, to
Hawkins of $ 1,844.17.
In July, 1826, the court passed a final decree, "that. the
complainant do recover of the said defendants the said sum of
eighteen hundred forty-four dollars and seventeen cents, and
his costs by him in this behalf expended. It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that this'decree shall, from the
time of its being pronounced, have the force, operation, and effect of a judgment at law, and shall be a lien upon all the town
lots of the defendants within said county, and also all the other
real estate of the said defendants within said County of Sandusky, as security for the satisfaction of said decree; and it is
further ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that, if the above sum
of eighteen hundred forty-four dollars and seventeen cents, and
the costs to be taxed in this suit, be not paid ivithin thirty
days from the date of this decree, upon a precipe being filed
with the clerk of this court by the complainant or his solicitor,
execution shall issue against the goods, chattels, lands, and tenements of the said defendants, which shall be taken in execution, and sold in like manner as though said execution
issued on a judgment rendered in a court of law; and all further proceedings in this cause to be continued until the next
term."
Under a pluries ft. fa., lot number seven was sold, and in
May, 1832, the sheriff made a deed of it to Sardis Birchard.
We can now return to the ejectment..
In the trial of it, Boswell, the plaintiff, produced a patent from
the United States for the lot number seven, dated September
2, 1831, and also the following agreement of counsel.
cc It is admitted, as evidence in this case, that the plaintiff's
lessor, said Thoinas E. Boswell, now is, and ever since the year
A. D. 1818 has been, a resident of the city of Lexington,
County of Fayette, and State of Kentucky; that from the 1st
VOL. Ix.

.

29

338

SUPREME COURT.
Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et al.

day of May, A. D. 1825, up to the 1st day of August, A. D.
1826, he was not within the State of Ohio, and that the premises in controversy in this case are of the value of ten thousand
dollars.
LANE, BuCKL ND,

&

HAYS,

Attorneys for Defendants.
"Lower Sandusky, Ohio, August 31st, .4. D. 1846."
The plaintiff there rested.
The defendants then offered in evidence a certified copy of
the record of the proceedings of the Court of Common Pleas of
Sandusky County, and also of the sheriffi's deed, to the introduction of which, as evidence in the case, the .plaintiff objected.
And thereupon, by consent of parties, the jury do say, that
if, in the opinion of the court, the said record and sheriff's
deed are by law admissible in evidence, then the said defendants are not guilty of the trespass and ejectment in the declaration mentioned; but if, in the opinion of the court, the said
record and sheriff's deed are not admissible as evidence, then
the juror say that the defendants are guilty of -the trespass and
ejectment in the declaration mentioned, and assess the plaintiff's damages at one cent; and- thereupon the arguments of
counsel being heard, and due deliberation had, the opinions of
the judges were divided on the following questions, to wit 1. Whether or not the proceedings and decree of the said
Court of Common Pleas of Sandusky County, set forth in said
record, are coram non judice and void.
2. Admitting said proceedings and"decree to- be valid so far
as relates to the lands specifically described in the said bill in
chancery, whether or nof said proceedings and decree are coram nonjudice and void so far as relates to lot number seven,
in controversy in this case, and which is not described in said
bill in -chancery; or, in bther words, whether said proceedings
and decree are not in rem, and so void and without effect as to
the other lands sold undder said decree.
And thereupon it is ordered, that said questions be certified
for decision to the next term of the Supreme Court of the
United States, according to the act of Congress in such case
made and provided.
The cause was submitted on printed arguments by Mr.
Ewing, for the plaintiff, and Mr. Stanberry, for the defendants. From these arguments it is only possible to give extracts.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

339

Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et aL

Mr. E.nng, for the plaintiff.
The question is upon the process and the decree. If the
process be not sufficient to bring the defendant into court and
make him a party to the decree, where all the other proceedings are regular, the case cannot be improved by any conceivable amount of errors, irregularities, or discrepancies betwe in
the bill and the decree.
The decree is for a sum of money found due by a master
upon reference, and it is for nothing else. The case, then, is
precisely the same as if the bill had been filed for the recovery
of that sum of money merely, and had named no other object;
for the decree cannot be strengthened at all by errors and irregularities upon the record. I do not claim that it is weakmerely say that it is not
ened by those irregularities, -I
strengthened; it is no better than if the bill had exactly supported the decree.
Now, this personal decree for money against an absent defendant cannot be sustained on general principles of equity. It
is corain non judice, if jurisdiction were not obtained by personal service; this is not and cannot be disputed. As a matter
of general equity, then, independently of itatutory regulation,
this whole proceeding would be a nullity, and the sale under
the decree void.
But the defendants attempt to sustain .the proceeding under
the chancery act of Ohio of 1824, and they copy in their brief,
as bearing upon the case, the 1st, 7th, 12th, 13th, 16th, 38th,
and 40th sections of that act.
The first section gives the Courts of Common Pleas general
chancery jurisdiction in all cases properly cognizable in a court
of chancery, that is, jurisdiction over the person, and through
the person over property. This jurisdiction is obtained by personal service only.
The seventh section allows a petition to be filed against an
absent person, where it is necessary to join him with a defendant residing 'in the State. This does not touch the case at bar.
There was no defendant residing in the State.
Section'twelfth is the one under which it was attempted to
bring this case. It gives the court jurisdiction over the rights
of absent defendants, upon notice, "in all cases properly cognizable in courts of equity, where either the title to, or boundaries of, land may come in question, or where, a suit ih chancery
becomes necessary in order to obtain the rescission of a contract for the conveyance of land, or to compel the specific execution of such contract."
This decree does. not touch "the title to, o.r boundaries

340,

SUPREME COURT.
Boswel's Lessee v. Otis et al.

of, land"; no decision is made on either in it. It does not
the rescission of a contract for the conveyance of
relate to "'
land," or to the compelling of "the specific, execution of such
contract"; not a word is said of either in it. This decree,
then, does not belong to a case in which any other than personal service can bring the defendant into court; and if the
decree be the test of jurisdiction, this case was coram non
judice.
Where there is a plea to the jurisdiction of a court pending
a cause, or a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction, there
is of course no judgment or decision, and the case can be looked
to only in its inceptive stages; but when the final judgment dr
decree has been rendered in a court, and the jurisdiction of that
court, after its final action, is. contested, it is the jurisdiction to
render the judgment or to pronounce the decree which is in
question, -not the jurisdiction to receive the declaration or the
bill in chancery. It is the judgment or decree alone that can
affect the rights of the absent party injuriously, not the intermediate proceedings; the bill cannot deprive him of any right,
or involve him in any liability, but the decree may; the character of the decree, then, rather than of the bill, must determine the necessity of personal service. If in a suit at law the
declaration be in trespass and the judgment in debt; or if, as
in this case, the bill was filed to compel the specific execution
of a contract for the conveyance of land, and the decree is for
a sum of money merely; it is the judgment in the one case,
and the decree in the other, that the parties must abide by.
The court which has to declare it valid, or void, will not look
at the intermediate proceedings to see if they warranted the
decree or judgment. If the court had jurisdiction to render
such judgnent or decree,- it is binding and valid, no matter
how irregular or erroneous the proceedings. If they had not
jurisdiction to render the decree, no error or irregularity in the
proceedings can help out the jurisdiction. This is a personal
decree for the payment of money, - a decree to operate in per-*
sonarm; there is no provision in the chancery act of Ohio by
which an absent defendant can be brought in to answer to a
bill praying for such a decree. It will not, I think, be pretended, that, if an honest bill, and one direct to the purpose, had
been filed, claiming merely a sum of money as a balance of
partnership accounts, the jurisdiction could have been sustained. There could, indeed, be no pretence for sustaining it;
and surely the decree is no better because it was obtained by
an indirection.
But, strange as it may appear, this is the only ground on

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Boswell's Lessee v. Otis -t al.

which it is attempted to sustain the jurisdiction, the learned
counsel on the other side seeming to consider the bill, and not
the decree, the subject by which.the jurisdiction is to be tested.
The very statement of the proposition is, to my mind, enough
to expose its fallacy. The statute gives jurisdiction against a
non-resident when it is necessary to go into chancery to compel the specific execution of a contract for the conveyance of
land. How is it to be ascertained that there was any such
contract ? By the decree, surely, finding it; not by the unsupported statements of the bill, abandoned, as in this case, by
the complainant when he comes to take his decree. It would
be monstrous to give the statute such a construction, as it
would enable parties to defraud the law at pleasure. A complainant wishes to take an ex parte decree against a non-resident, - he has nothing to do but to file his bill, aver a contract
for the conveyance of land which he wishes to have specially
executed, add to it a claim for money paid, and take his decree
for money, without troubling himself to prove that the defendant had land at all in the State. It would be a regular mode
of bringing parties into c6urt without notice, and obtaining decrees against them without allowing them a knowledge of the
fIct that they were in court. Out of a construction like this,
aided by a reasonable mixture of fraud and perjury, a practice
would grow up which would enable the merest vagabond to
pbssess himself of the estate of any non-resident whose wealth
might be to his fancy.
Indeed, the party need not always put himself to the trouble
or incur the hazard of 'perjury. In this case the complainant
got along very well without it, as he was not required to adduce any testimony of his claim, or make an affidavit to its
truth ; and such might be the case nine times out of ten, if a
bill could be filed in the Court of Common Pleas in Ohio against
a defendant in Massachusetts on a false suggestion, and a decree rendered against him on notice published in a country
newspaper; especially if the case were conducted by counsel
who would take care to enter his decree in the absence of the
president judge.
The object of the chancery act of 1824 undoubtedly was to
provide for a proceeding in rem, when a contract had been
made touching land lying within the State, that the title thereto should be settled by either of the parties to the contract
without going into another jurisdiction. It never was intended to create thereby a fictitious process, by which parties were
to be made personally amenable to the jurisdiction of a court
of whose proceedings, or even existence, they had never heard.
29*

-342

SUPREME

COURT.

Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et al.

The act will not bear any such construction, and it would be
against natural justice so to construe it.
This is not a case of local concernment, in which the decision of the courts of the State are of binding authority; and,
though land is involved in the case, it is not a question of title
in the ordinary acceptation of the term, but one of more extensive application. If this decree be valid for the present purpose,
it is so for all purposes, and full force and effect must be given
it in all the courts of the United States. Nor, does the Supreme Court of Ohio, in the case of the Lessee of Boswell v.
Sharp and Leppelman (set outat large in defendants' argument),
give, or profess to give, a construction to the chancery act of
Ohio, by which, upon sound and logical reasoning, this decree
can be sustained as a personal decree. The learned judge who
delivers the opinion in that case says expressly (page 25), that
if the demand was simply personal, and the decree was pronounced without service upon the defendants, who resided in
another State, the objection to the jurisdiction would have been
well taken. He thus disem jarrasses himself and us of the construction of che statute, and rests the case upon a general proposition, universal in itsapplication if sound, and if unsound to
be iuniversally rejected. It is, that the statement of the bill,
and not the substance of the decree, is the Lest to settle the
question of jurisdiction. On this we take issue. We say it
matters not what is demanded in the bill; if the decree be merely personal, it must be supported by personal service, and cannot be helped by a bill claiming land.
The statute of Ohio admits the general principle, that a court
of chancery cannot take jurisdiction of a pergon without personal service made on him within the jurisdiction of the court;
but provides that, where land lies within the jurisdiction of the
court, it may be acted upon, and the title to it settled, in proper
cases, by a proceeding in chancery, though one of the parties
as laws relating to foreign attachbe a non-resident, -just
ments allow land or personal property to be seized at law, and
a judgment rendered .against it for the payment of a common
law debt. But in both these cases, though the proceeding is in
the name of the owner of the property, it is substantially a proceeding in rem, and the judgment or decree can bind only the
thing, not the person.
(The counsel then uoted Story's Conflict of Laws, pages
461 - 465, 549 ; 2 Mc.ean, 514: 5 Paige's Oh. 302; 15 Ohio,
442; 8 Paige, 444.)
The following are extracts from Mr. Stanberry's argument,
in reply.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

343

Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et al.

In the argument of Mr. Ewing, counsel for the plaintiff, the
question is stated to be, whether the decree is void, - and a
nice distinction is taken between the validity of the proceedings up to the decree and the decree itself. But no such question is before this court. We can only look to the very question
upon which the court below was divided in opinion, and that is
specifically stated to be, whether the proceedings and decree
are void. No one can say whether the judges of the court below would have differed as to the validity of the decree, if they
had concurred as to the validity of the proceedings. The answer to be sent to them. by this court cannot divide the question or limit it. The question here is precisely what it was
the proceedings and decree
bqfore the judges below, -Are
void? Void as a whol. or an entirety.
It is proper, however5 to consider this question in the relation
in which it arises, and not in the abstract. The proceedings
and decree are of a court in the State of Ohio, and the question
as to their validity arises upon a title to land within the same
State, depending upon them. This narrows the question of
validity, and excludes all inquiry as to extraterritorial effect, a very important limitation.
With these preliminary remarks, I shall proceed to reply to
the argument of Mr. Ewing. The learned counsel first states
that the question which arises is, whether the defendants, in
the case before the Sandusky Common Pleas, were in court, so
that a personal decree could be rendered against them. Again,
the question is stated to be upon the process and decree; and,
lastly, it is stated that it is the decree alone which gives character to the whole case.
I do not understand Mr. Ewing to argue that the case made
by the bill was not a proper case for the jurisdiction of the
court, under the twelfth section of the act of 1824, Indeed, no
question can be made upon that. It was a case properly cognizable in a court of equity, involving the execution of a contract for the conveyance of land within the jurisdiction of the
court. It was therefore precisely within a class of cases provided for in that section, and, upon the publication of the notice
to the non-resident defendants, the jurisdiction of the cobrt fully
attached.
But it is argued that all this goes for iothing, inasmuch as
the decree was not strictly according to the case made in the
bill; that the case made in the bill was a case in rem, whereas
the decree was exclusively in personam.
In the first place, I answer to this, that the case made by the
bill is not at all a case in rem, nor foes the twelfth section of
the act of 1824 enumerate a single case of that character.

B44

SUPREME

COURT.

Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et al&.

In Hollingsworth v. Barbour, 4 Peters, 475, the point was
wade that a bill for a specific performance was a proceeding i
rem. The opinion of Mr. Justice Trimble in the court below,
which was adopted by this court in that case, goes directly to
that point, and is as follows: - " The case under consideration
is .not properly a proceeding in ren; and a decree in chancery
for the conveyance of land has never yet, within my knowledge, been held to come within the principle of proceedings in
rem, so far as to dispense with the service of process on the
party. There is no seizure nor taking into the custody of the
court the land, so far as to dispense with the service of process
on, the party; constructive notice, therefore, can only exist in
the cases coming fairly within the provisions of the statute$
authorizing the court to make orders of publication, and pro-.
viding that the publication, when made, shall authorize the
court to decree."
All that can be said of the case made by the bill, and of the
cases enumerated in the twelfth section, is, that they relate to
contracts or questions affecting land situate within the State.
They cover a vast field of equity jurisdiction, which has never
been held to be a jurisdiction in rem. Unlike the proceedings
in rem, there is no seizure and condemnation of the property
in the first instance, and-the relief administered may very prop.
erly go beyond the property which is the subject of the conitract.
There is not a subject for jurisdiction enumerated in the
twelfth section, in which the decree may not properly and n.
cessarily be a decree for money. Take, for instance, the subject of the rescission of a contract for the conveyance of land,
and suppose the plaintiff to be the purchaser, who alleges the
contract, the payment of all money due upon it, and a ground
for rescission. In such a case, if the allegations be found for
the plaintiff, the necessary decree is for the repayment of the
money, as well as the cancellation of the contract. Any thing
short of that stops short of the true meaning of rescission.
Take, also, the subject of the- specific execution of such a
contract, and suppose the bill to be filed by the vendor, who
has never received one cent of the purchase-money. What
other bxecution or performance of the contract can there be in
such a case, but the payment of the purchase-money, or idecree for such payment?
Such a constructiotl can never be put on this statut6 as~to
say, that these subjects for jurisdiction, so brought within the
cognizance of a court of equity, are to be dealt with in any
other way than according to the necessities of the case, and the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

345

Boswelrs Lessee v. Otis et al.

usual relief administered in equity. If there were any doubt
as to this, the express language of the section settles it. The
concluding clause is in these words :-- " Such court is hereby
authorized to take cognizance thereof, and direct either personal notice, or notice by publication, of its pendency, to be
given as in this act provided, and on proof of such notice having been given, to proceed as in other cases."
A proceeding or case in equity under this- statute may then
properly terminate in a decree for money; that is, it is within
the competence of the court to render such a decree, though it
personam, without committing so much as an error.
sound in.
I do not understand fr.- Ewing to contend that a statute
which should provide for constructive notice by publication, as
the foundation for a judgment or decree for money, would be
void, or that the judgment or decree rendered upon such notice
would be a nullity. The argument is, that this statute authorized no such proceeding, and warranted no such decree.
A judgment or decree rendered in such a proceeding is valid
within the State, and may be carried into effect upon the property of the defendant, real or personal, found within the State.
The most that can be said against it is, that it shall not be allowed to have an extraterritorial effect. It is not strictly a
judgment or decree in personam, but, as to its effect, is limited
to the propertyt.of the debtor within the local jurisdiction.
The jurisdiction of a court of chancery over pergons oat of
the reach of its process is founded either upon the inherent
power of the court or upon positive statute. In England, as
well as in various States of the Union, such jurisdiction is constalitly exercised, either by a substituted and formal service of
subpcena upon some officer of the court, or by publication.
Nor is this jurisdiction at all confined to cases involving the
title to lands within the particular sovereignty, but it extends
to matters strictly in pdrsonam.
But we are not obliged to sustain such a statute, or such a
proceeding, in this case. So far as the statute is concerned,
there can"be no question of its validity; and so far as the proceedings are concerned, there is no question, they were exactly
authorized by the statute. We have gone a step further than
was necessary, and have argued the question of jurisdiction as
if it depended on the decree. That is the ground taken in the
argument for the plaintiff. We deny its soundness.
If the proceeding, that is to say, the bill and the publication,
were in conformity with the statute, the question of jurisdiction
is settled. It is impossible to contend, that, after proof of publication upon the bill, the court had not jurisdiction. The case

340

SUPREME COURT.
Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et aL

made by the bill was precisely one of the cases provided for in
the statute, and the publication of notice was in all respects
correct. When, then, was the case coram judice? Certainly,
upon proof of publication, if not before. Then, how can it be
said that afterwards it came to be coram non ? If it were before the court upon 'the publication, it continued to be before
the court until the end of the case. The decree was in the
very case, between the very parties to the bill and publication,
and upon the very contract set out in the bill. All the safeguards and requirements of the law, to prevent an assumption
of jurisdiction, had been fulfilled. The case was brought precisely to the point at- which the court is intrusted with the
rights of the parties litigant.
Now, the most that can be said against the decree is, that it
did not fully cover the whole case made by the bill. It does
not distinctly decree a conveyance of the fourth of the land to
the plaintiff, Hawkins. To have done full justice, and to have
settled all the equities which grew out of the contract, that
should have been done with more certainty. But if that alone
had been decreed, it would not have settled all the equities, or
decided the whole case. For the contract did not merely contemplate such conveyance, but contemplated also remuneration
to Hawkins for services and advances, stipulated for as one'
term of the contract, and to be rendered and made, in reference
to the land.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is before us on points certified, on which the
opinions of the judges of the. Circuit Court of the United States
for Ohio were opposed.
In 1825, a bill was filed by Thomas L. Hawkins, in the
Court of Common Pleas for Sandusky County, Ohio, against
Thomas E. Boswell and others, which represented that, in the
year 1816, Boswell, of the State of Kentucky, the complainant,
Reed, and Owings agreed to build a saw-mill on the public
land, with the, view of purchasing the land when zold by the
government." Boswell and Owings advanced a part of the
money; the complainant was to be the active partrt-r, and his
share of the capital was to be paid by labor. That he expended labor and money until the land was sold, in 1818, at Wooster, in Ohio, when Reed and Owings abandoned the contract;
and it was then agreed by Boswell, William T. Barry, of Kentucky, and William Whitimore, of Boston, and the complainant,
tQ go on and purchase lot number nine, or a large part of it, on
which the building for the mill had been commenced. The

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

347

Boswelrs Lessee v. Otis et al.

purchase was made, and it was agreed that the complainant's
share of the purchase-money should be paid in labor on the
mill, and in improvements on the land. That he should. be
the active partner, &c.
The complainant proceeded ini the construction of the mill,
and expended for the company the sum of five thousand dollars, of which he advanced two thousand six hundred dollars,
besides his own time ; that the complainant expected his partners would have conveyed to him one fourth of the land purchased, they having obtained a legal title to two thirds of the
lot, but that they have refused to do the same, or to account
and refund him the money expended, &c. And the complainant prayed a decree for one fourth part of the land to which
the defendants have obtained a title, and also that they may
account, &c.
The defendants being non-residents of Ohio, the court ordered nir:e weeks' notice to be given in a newspaper, as the
statute requires. There being no appearance of the defendants,
the bill was taken as confessed,.and the matter was referred to
a master, who reported a balance against them, -and in favor, of
the complainant, of the sum of eighteen hundred and fortyfour dollars and seventeen cents, for which a final decree was
entered, and it was adjudged that it should have, from the time
of its being pronounced, the operation and effect of a judgment
at law, and be a lien on all the town lots of the defendants,
and all other real estate owned by them within the county.
And execution was authorized, &c. Several executions were
issued and a number of lots were sold, among others lot number seven, containing seventy-seven acres and seventy-five
hundredths, for which the sheriff's deed was executed.
For this lot number seven, an ejectment was brought by
Boswell in the Circuit Court of the United States, and issue
being joined, on the trial the following questions were rai ed,
on which the opinions of the judges were opposed.
"1. Whether or not the proceedings and decree of the said
Court of Common Pleas of Sandusky County, set forth in the
record above stated, are coram non judce.
"2. Admitting said proceedings and decree to be valid so far
as relates to the land specifically described in the said bill in
chancery, whether or not said proceedings and decree are coram
710)z juaice and void so far as relates to lot number even, in
controversy in,. this case, and which is not described in said bill
in chancery ; or, in other words, whether said proceedings and
decree are not in rem, and so void and without effect as to the
other lands sold under said decree."

848

SUPREME COURT.
Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et al.

As the title to lot number seven only is involved in the
ejectment suit, it is unnecessary to consider the first point certified. Under the decree, which was only for money, many
lots were sold by the sheriff that are still held, it is presumed,
under his deed; but the holders are not parties to this suit, and
it may be decided without affecting their interests.
When the record of a judgment is brought before the court
collaterally or otherwise, it is always proper to inquire whether
the court rendering the judgment had jurisdiction. Jurisdiction
is acquired in one of two modes; - first, as against the person
of the defendant, by the service of process; or secondly, by
a procedure against the property of the defendant, within the
jurisdiction of the court. In the latter case the defendant is
not personally bound by the judgment, beyond the property
in. question. And it is immatbrial whether the proceeding
against the property be by an attachment or bill in chancery.
It must be, substantially, a proceeding in 'em. A bill for the
specific execution of a contract to convey real estate is not
strictly a proceeding in rem, in ordinary cases; but where
such a procedure is authorized by statute, on publication, without personal service of process, it is, substantially, of that
character.
The chancery act of Ohio of 1824 confers on the Court of'
Common Pleas general chancery powers. In the twelfth section, jurisdiction is given over the rights of absent defendants,
on the publication of noticed, "1in all cases properly cognizable
ih courts of equity; where either the title to, or boundaries of,
land may come in question, or where a suit in chancery becomes
necessary in order to obtain the rescission of a contract for the
conveyance of land, or to compel the specific execution of such

contraqt."
. Under this statute the bill by Hawkins purports to have
been filed. But without reference to the other lots sold under
the decree, there is no .pretence to say that the bill had any
relation, to *the title or boundaries of lot number seven, or to any
contract for the conveyance of the same. And it is only in
these cases that the act authorizes a chancery proceeding
against the land of non-residents by giving public notice. It
is a special and limited jurisdiction, and cannot be legally exercised, except within the provisions of the statute.
The principle is admitted, that, where jurisdiction is acquired
against the person by the service of process or by a voluntary
appearance, a court of general jurisdiction will settle the matter
in controversy between the parties. But this principle does
not apply to a special jurisdiction authorized by statute, though

JANUA.RY TERM, 1850.

349

Boswell's Lessee v. Otis et al.

exercised by a court of general jurisdiction, The present oase
will illustrate this view. Admit that a special jurisdiction was
acquired against all the other lots, yet number seven was in no
way connected with them. It was not named in the bill, nor
was there any step taken in relation to it, until it was levied on
by the sheriff to satisfy the general decree. It was not within
any one of the categories named in the statute. Until long
after the decree, the title to it was not obtained by defendants.
If it can be made subject to such a procedure, then the special
jurisdiction given by the statute is converted, by construction,
into a general proceeding against the property of non-resident&
by a mere publication of notice.
The property of an individual is subject, in a certain sense,
to the law of the State in which it is situated. It is liable for
taxes and to such special proceedings against it as the law shall
authorize. An-attachment may be laid upon it, and it may be
sold in satisfaction of an established claim. And the legislature may, perhaps, subject other lands to the payment of the
judgment on the attachment after the sale of the lands first attached. But no such proceeding is authorized by the act. under
which this procedure was had. It is limited td the cases enumerated in the statute.
It is said that the statute authorizes a decree for money.
This may be admitted. Under the rescission of a contract the
money paid may be decreed to be refunded, and the land covered by the contract, being within the special jurisdiction of the
court, may be ordered to be sold. But the power of the court
is limited to this. Under the assumption of a special power, it
cannot be made general by any supposed necessity, beyond the
provisions of the act. Such a construction would not only
pervert the object of the legislature, but it would sacrifice the
property of .n individual without notice in fact, and who had
no opportunity to make his defence. ,
The proceedings in this case are a practical commentary upon
this construction.
It is said, if this construction of the act be erroneous, it does
not make void the proceedings, and that the error can only be
corrected by an appellate court. And we are referred to the
case of Lessee of Boswell and others v. Sharp and Leppelman,
15 Ohio, 447, in which it is alleged that the Supreme Court of
Ohio sustained the decision of the Common Pleas on the question now before us.
In that case the Supreme Court did hold that the Court of
Common Plegs of Sandusky had jurisdiction in the chancery
proceeding, and that the validity of the same could not be

350

SUPREME COURT.
Boswells Lessee v. Otis et al.

questioned collaterally. But that decision was made in reference to a part of lot number nine, on which the mill was constructed, and to obtain a title for a part of which the bill was
filed. The title to lot number seven was not involved in the
case before the Supreme Court, and, consequently, they did
not consider it.
It may be difficult in some cases to draw the line of jurisdiction so as to determine whether the proceedings of a court are
void or only erroneous. And in such cases every intendment
should be favorable to a purchaser at a judicial sale. But the
rights of all parties must be regarded. No -principle is more
vital- to the administration of justice, than that no man shall
be condemned in his person or property without notice, and
an opportunity to make his, defence. And every departure
from this fundamental rule, by a proceeding in rem, in which
a publication of notice is substituted for a service on the
party, should be subjected to a strict legal scrutiny. Jurisdiction is not to be assumed and exercised in such cases upon the
general ground, that the subject-matter of the suit is within
the power of the court. This would dispense with the forms
of the law, prescribed by the legislature, for the security of
absent parties. The inquiry should be, have the requisites of
the statute been complied with, so as to subject the property
in controversy to the judgment of the court, and is such judgment limited to the property named in the bill. If this cannot
be answered in the affirmative, the proceediigs of the ceurt
beyond their jurisdiction are void.
If this test 'be applied to the proceedings before us, we think
in no just and legal sense can they be held to subject lot number seven to the decree of the court, nor to-fix any personal
liability on the defendants, and consequently, that the levy
and sale of the sheriff were without authority and void, and
the second question certified to this court must be so answered.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Ohio, and on the points or questions on which the
judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court, that the proceedings and decree of the Court of
Common Pleas of Sandusky County, as set forth in the record,
are coram nen judice and void, so far as relates to lot number

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

351

The United States v. Briggs.

seven, and consequently that the levy and sale of the sheriff
were without authority and void. Whereupon it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to
the said Circuit Court.

THE UNITED STATES V. EPHRAII'! BiRCs.
On the 2d of tLarch, 1.31, Congr-ess passed an act (4 Statutes at Large, 472), entitled
"An act to provide for the punishment of offences committed in cutting, destroying. or removinr live-oak or other timber or trees, reserved for naval purposes."
The act itself declxes, that every person who shall remove, &c, any live-oak or redcedar tree, or other timber, irom any other lands of the United States, shall be
puniqhed by fine and imprisonment.
The title of the act would indicate that timber reserved for naval purposes was meant
to be protected bwthis mode, and none other. But the enacting clause is general,
and therefore cutting and using of oak and hickory, or any other description of
timber trees from the public lands, is indictable, and punishable by fine and imprisonment.

THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for Michigan, upon a certificate of division in opinion
between tl-judges thereof. It was before the court, and reported in 5 Howard, 208, and sent back because the point was
not distinctly certified.
On the 2d of March, 1831, Congress passed the following
act (4 Stat. at Large, 472):An Act to provide for the punishment of offences committed
in cutting, destroying, or removing live-oak or other timber
or trees, reserved for naval purposes.
"Sec. 1. That if any person or persons shall cut, or cause- or
procure to be cut, or aid, assist, or be employed in cutting, or
shall wantonly destroy, or cause or procure to be wantonly destroyed, or aid, assist, or be employed in wantonly destroying,
any live-oak or red-cedar tree or trees, or other timber, standing, growing, or being on any lands of the United States,
which, in pursuance of any law passed or /hereafter to be
passed, shall have b en reserved or purchased for the use of the
United States, for supplying or furnishing therefrom timber for'
the navy of the United States; or if any person or persons
shall remove, or cause or procure to be removed, or aid or
assist or be employed in removing, from any such lands which
shall have been reserved or purchased as aforesaid, any live-oak
or red-cedar tree or trees, or other timber, unless duly authorized so to do by order in writing of a competent officer, and for

