JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

471

Goodtitle v. Kibbe.
JOHN GoODTITLE, EX DEM. JOHN POLLARD, WILLIAM POLLARD, JOHN
FOWLER AND HARRIET, HIS WIFE, LATE HARRIET POLLARD, HENRY
P. ENSIGN AND PHEBE, HIS WIFE, LATE PHEBE POLLARD, GEORGE
HUGGINS AND LOUISA, HIS WIFE, LATE LOUISA POLLARD, JOSEPH
CASE AND ELIZA, HIS WIFE, LATE ELIZA POLLARD, HEIR9 AND
LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES OF WILLIAI POLLARD, DECEASED, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. GAIUS KIDBE.

The decision of this court in Pollard v. Hagan, 3 Howard, 212, reexamined and
affirmed.
By the admission of the State of Alabama into the Union, that Statebecame invested
with the sovereignty and dominion over the shores of navigalle rivers between
high and low water mark. Consequently, after such admission, Congress could
make no grant of land thus situated.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Alabama, by a writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.
It involved the same principle decided by this court in the
case of Pollard v. Hagan, reported in 3 Howard, 212. It is not
necessary, therefore, to set forth the facts and title any further
than they are stated in the bill of exceptions which was taken
to the opinion of the Circuit Court for Mobile County. The
action of ejectment was brought by the lessee of Pollard's heirs
in 1838, and was tried in 1845.
Bill of Exceptions.
On the trial of this cause the plaintiff produced the following grant : "To the Commandant.
"William Pollard, an inhabitant of this district, states to you
with all respect, that whereas he has a mill situate on his place
of abode, and frequently comes to this place with planks and
property from his mill,, therefore he wishes to have a situation
favorable to the landing and safety thereof, and there being a
vacant piece of ground at the edge of the water, between the
canal called John Forbes's and the wharf of this place, he
prays you to grant him said piece of ground at the edge of the
water, the better to facilitate his business. A favor which he
hopes to obtain from you.
" WILLIAN POLLARD.
"MOBILE,

December 11th, 1809."
"MOBME, December 12th, 1809.

"I grant to the petitioner the piece of ground which he asks
for at the edge of the water, if it be vacant.
" CAYEtANO PEREZ."

472

SUPREME COURT.
Goodtitle v. Kibbe.

The plaintiff next read the act of Congress, passed 26th May,
1824, entitled "An act granting certain lots of ground to the
corporation of the city of Mobile, and to certain individuals in
said city," and an act of Congress of 2d July, 1836, entitled
"An act for the relief of William Pollard's heirs," ard a patent
of the United States in pursuance of the said act, for the lot in
controversy, to the lessors of the plaintiff; the plaintiff further
proved, that, in the year 1813 or 1814, some wreck and drift
wood was removed from the place where the premises in question now are, by the hands of William Pollard, the grantee.
It was proved that in the year 1823, no one being then in
possession, and the same being under water, Curtis Lewis,
without any title, took possession of and filled up east of Water
Street, and from it eighty feet east, and to the north of Government Street; that Lewis remained in possession about nine
months, when he was ousted in the night by James Inerarity,
one of the firm of Panton, Leslie, & Co., and of John Forbes
& Co., its successor, claiming the land under the Spanish grant
hereto attached, who improved the lot by the erection of a
smith's shop. That thortly afterwards, Curtis Lewis recovered
the possession under a forcible entry and detainer proceeding,
and remained ii, possession for several years, during which he
and Forbes & Co. were engaged in a lawsuit.
The ivhole matter was terminated by the purchase, in 1829,
by Henry Hitchcock, of the title of Forbes & Co., of Curtis
Lewis, and of the Mayor and Aldermen of Mobile. Henry
Hitchcock remained in the possession of the property till 1835,
-when he sold to the defendant for $ 28,000.
The defendant produced the original Spanish grant and the
English copy thereof, for the premises in dispute, with the certificate of confirmation, and produced the conveyances aforesaid, showing the title under which he claims.
He proved that Panton, Leslie, & Co., and Forbes & Co.,
have had possession of the lot specified in their grant from its
date; that they fulfilled the conditions which are specified
therein; that to the east of the present site of Water Street,
they'had a canal" extending into the river, through which
their boats came up; that there was an embankment on both
sides of this canal, on which their goods were landed, and from
which their shipments were made. The fillings up donQ by
Lewis were done by' sinking flat-boats in this canal.
The particular lots now sued, for lie south of the canal and
embankment aforesaid, and are between the king's old wharf
and Forbes's canal; they lie to the east of Water Street, and
fall within the lines laid down in the patent.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

473

Goodtitle v. Kibbe.

The particular land in this writ was never improved until
Curtis Lewis made the fillings up. It was further in proof, that
previous to 1819, then, and until filled up, the lots claimed by
plaintiff were at ordinary high tides covered with water, and
mainly so at all stages of water; that the ordinary high tide
at that time, flowing from the east, reached to about the middle
of what is now Water Street. That in the Spanish times the
eastern part of the lots to the west of Water Street was subject
to be covered by water at ordinary tides by a flow of water
from the river. That what is Water Street at this time was
a natural ridge, which was not usually overflowed except at
high tides ; but there was a depression to the north of the lot
of defendant, across which it flowed around upon the eastern
parts of the lots lying to the west of the lots sued for. This
ridge was about fifteen feet wide; Water Street was laid out
in 1820, and is-sixty feet.
That no one had possession of the premises in question before 1826, except as before stated. The lines of the lot in the
Spanish grant, being extended to the river, include the premises
in dispute.
It was further in evidence that Mr. Pollard died in 1816.
TEST & PHILLIPS, for Plaintiff.
J. A. CAMPBELL,
STEWART & EASTON, for Defendant.
And upon this evidence the court gave the -following instruictions to the jury, to wit: "Plaintiff claims under a Spanish grant by Cayetano Perez,
bf date December 12, 1809, act of Congress confirming the
same, July 2d, 1836, and a patent from the United States in
pursuance thereof, dated March 15th, 1837.
"Defendant insists that plaintiff's title is not good, because
the Spanish grant of itself is incomplete and invalid, and although it was confirmed by act of Congress in 1836, yet, the
premises sued for being the shore of a navigable river, lying
below high-water mark at the time the State of Alabama was
admitted into the Union, Congress, at the time of the act of
confirmation, had no control over the subject, and was powerless to add any thing or impart any vitality to the Spanish
grant.
"The plaintiff replies and says, that, by the treaty of 1819
with Spain, Spanish grants of the character of that under which
the plaintiff claims were recognized by the United States, who
assumed the obligation that said grants should, be satisfied and
confirmed. This obligation the plaintiff contends is tp be con40 *

SUPREME COURT.
Goodtitle v. Kibbe.

sidered as a contract with the persons holdiig, these grants;.
and no legislation of the United States, without the consent
of such persons, can impair this obligation, or excuse the performance of the duties it clearly imposes.
"From this statement of the case, the first question that
naturally presents itself is, What was the character of the interest the United States had in the premises in 1836, or had they
•any interest at that time in the soil?
"tIn March, 1819, Congress passed an act to enable the people of Alabama Territory to form a constitution and State gov.eminent, and.for the admission of such State into the Union
on an equal footing with the original States. That act declres that all riavigable waters within the said State shall for
ever remain public highways, free to the citizens of said State
and the United States. What is the footing on which the
original States stand in regard to the shores of their navigable
-rivers, and.the soil covered by them? That footing is certainly the perfect and absolute control of the shores of those rivers
in the respective States, except so fat as the United States government may find it necessary to use them in the legitimate
exercise -of us constitutional rights. For the purpose of enabling itself to do this, so far as Alabama is concerned, it has not
thought proper to assert any rights of ownership in the shore,
but has rather relinquished the idea of such ownership in itself,
and recognized it in the State, by stipulating for a free use of
said shores by the citizens of the United States.
"What has been said is based upon the assumption that, by
the treaty with Spain, the United States acquired the same
property in the shores of navigable rivers that Spain had, and
that they had, by thg.act of 1819, transferred the rights ac.guired tilrder the treaty to the State of Alabama, reserving only
the easement of navigation to the citizens of the United States.
The question then arises, Could the Uhited States, in contravention of the obligaion they had incurred under the Spanish
treaty, ratify and confirm these Spanish grants?'
".If Spain could have granted the shores'of navigable rivers,
and the same power that Spain had had been conferred upon
the United States by the treaty of 1819, and in pursuance of
that treaty, and the pledges therein given5 the United States
-had confirmed this grant prior to the admission of Alabama
into theUniop, there can be no doubt that the plaintiff's title
would have-been valid; but this was not done.
" Before it is done, the United States place themselves in
a position where they cannot do it. Whether they ought to
have placed thems6lves in that position, or what are the conse-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

475

Goodtitle v. Kibbe.

quences of this act, so far as the Spanish government is concerned, or the inviolability of the treaty between the two nations, it is needless now to inquire. If wrong has been done,
the law of nations indicates the remedy. We must look at
things as they are, and so viewing, the court is impelled to the
conclusion, that if, at the time of the admission of the State of
Alabama into the Union, the land described in plaintiffs declaration was below ordinary high-water mark, there was no interest in the same in the United States in 1836, and that the
act of confirmation, and the patent in pursuance thereof, could
not aid plaintiff's title, and that the same is invalid and unsound."
To. which charge the plaintiff excepts, and prays the court to
sign, seal, and certify this bill of exceptions, which is done.
Under these instructions, the jury found a verdict for the
defendant, and, the case being carried to the Suprjeme Court
of Alabama, that court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court.
A writ of errdr then brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Phillips and Mr. Coxe, for the plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Campbell, for the defendant in error.
It is not thought necessary to insert those parts of the arguments of counsel relative to the effect of the admission of Alabama into the Union upon the subsequent power of Congress
to grant land between high and low water mark upon navigable rivers. The court, in its opinion, considers that point as
settled in the case of Pollard v. Hagan, 3 Howard, 212. The
counsel for the plaintiff in error, however, drew a distinction
between that case and the prdsent, as follows.
The case as now presented, however, differs materially from
the case of Pollard v.- Hagan, in, 3 Howard. The Spanish concession was not then before the court, and the acts and patent
relied upon were all subsequent to the date of admission.
The concession to Pollard, made while Spain was in the undisturbed possessibn of the territory, by every principle, eitherof national or municipal law, gave him a claim of title upon
this government, which it was bound in good faith to perfect.
It is true that, if the political departments refused to discharge
their obligation, the courts of justice could not enforce it ; but
the want of this sanction in no wise impaired its obligatory
force.
Having by the treaty with France, in 1803, acquired, our
title and by the treaty with Spain, in 1819, termed on its face

476

SUPREME COURT.
Goodtitle v. Kibbe.

a treaty of cession, confirmed our possession to this territory,
treaty stipulations and the law, of nations arose to control the
action of the government as strongly as if the duties were imposed by constitutional provision.
The annexation of this acquisition to the Mississippi Territory by the act of 1812 did not obstruct the exercise of those
high duties, nor did .the authority given by Congress that the
State of Alabama might be carved out of it produce this consequence. The people of that Statd would have spurned an
advantage founded upon a violation of national faith.
That Pollard's title was 'the subject of a confirmation by
Congress is expressly ruled, when this case was first presented,
in 14 Peters, the court there citing the decision of Judge Marshall in De la Croix v. Chamberlain, "that the United States
had never, as far as we can discover, distinguished between the
concessions of land made by the Spanish authorities within the
disputed tvrritory, while Spain was in actual possession, from
concessions of a similar character made by Spain within the
acknowledged limits." The court, therefore, concluded that
Pollard's claim was within the exception of the act of 1824,
reserving all cases where the Spanish" government had made a
"new grant" during the time at which they had the- " power"
to grant the same (p. 364).
All the circumstance.s constituting the history of the times
justify the declaration that, in the admission of the State,
neither of the contracting parties understood that the political
obligations resting upon this government, as the successor of
Spain, to perfect the titles of individuals acquired in good faith
under Spanish dominion, were at all impaired; the more especially as it is not pretended that their fulfilment would in
any manner work an injury to any public or private interest.
That the proprietorship of the soil between high and low
tide belongs to the public, and may be acquired by individuals
either by grant or prescription, is a doctrine of the common
law, taught by Sir Matthew Hale in his treatise De Jure Mars
(1 Hargrave's Law Tracts, p. 37), citing Bracton, who, in turn,
quotes the Roman civil law from Justinian's Digest. Constable's case, 3 Co. 105, 107. There being but this distinction
between the common and civil law, that the former' confues
this right to the "sea-shore, arms of the sea, bays, and rivers
where the tide ebbs and flows," while the latter extends the
right to include all "navigable rivers." Ingraham v. Wilkinson, 4 Pick. 273.
-The government, therefore, had the right to grant to Pollard
-the fee of the soil, subject ofily to the restraints imposed by the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

47

Goodtitle v. Kibbe.
public interest and convenience. Blundel v. Collvel, 5 Barn.
& Aid. 267; Browne v. Kennedy, 5 Har. & Johns. 195; Hagan v. Campbell, 8 Port. 9; Mayor v. Eslava, 9 Port. 596.
The counsel for the defendant in error noticed this subject
in his third and six.th points.
3. The decisions of this court reported in 3 Howard, 212,
and 16 Peters, 367, are directly against the right of the United
States to grant the shore after the admission of Alabama into
the Union. Such being the law upon this question, the only
inquiry is, whether the productioun of an incomplete Spanish
title (a mere permit to occupy) can change the result. This
court has repeatedly decided that such a paper can give the
party no standing in the court, no matter when it was executed. 12 Wheaton, 599; 4 Howard, 449.
This court has also decided, that a complete grant bearing
date at the time this does (1809) can give the party no right
to be heard in the courts of the United States. Foster v. Neilson, 2 Peters, 253 ; 12 Peters, 511.
The party cannot, then, rest upon his Spanish title.
6. The opinion of the Supreme Court, reported in 3 Howard, 212 was very deliberately given. A motion for a rehearing was refused. The opinion comprehends within its princi.
pie property to a very large amount, and possessions and contracts have been made with respect to it.
In the State of Alabama, the Supreme Court has repeatedly
acted in accordance with it, and has regarded it as the settled
law of the land. An opinion so given, entering so far into the
law of property of the country, cannot be questioned without
producing great confusion. 8 Ala. 909, 930; 7 Ala. 883.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiff in
error to recover a lot of ground in the town of Mobile, in the
State of Alabama.
The plaintiff claimed title under an inchoate Spanish grant, dated, December 12, 1809, and-an act of
Congress confirming this title, passed July 2, 1836, and a patent
from the United States. dated March 15, 1837, which issued in
pursuance of the act of Congress.
The validity of this title was disputed by the defendant,
upon the ground that the premises were a part of the shore of
a navigable tide-water river, lying below high-water mark, when
the State of Alabama was admitted into the Union in 1819;
and that therefore, at the time of the passage of the act of
Congress, the sovereignty and dominion over the place in ques-

478

SUPREME COURT.
Goodtitle v. Kibbe.

tion were in the State, and not in the United States. And the
court instructed the jury, that, if the land described in the plaintiff's declaration was below ordinary high-water mark at the
time Alabama was admitted into the Union, the confirming act
of Congress and the patent conveyed no _title to the patentee.
The question decided in the State court cannot be regarded
as an open one. The same question upon the same act of
Congress and patent was brought before this court in the case
of Pollard v. Hagan, at January term, 1845, reported in 3 Howard, 212. That case was fullr and deliberately considered, as
will appear by the report, and the court then decided that the
act of Congress and patent conveyed no title. The decision
of the Supreme Court of Alabama, from which this case has
been brought by writ of error, conforms to. the opinion of this
court in the case of Pollard v. Hagan. And it must be a very
strong case indeed, and one where mistake and error had been
evidently committed, to justify this court, after the lapse of five
years, in reversing its own decision; thereby destroying rights
of property which" may have been purchased and paid for in
the mean time, upon the faith and confidence reposed in the
judgment of this court. But, upon a review of the case, we
see no reason for doubting its correctness, and are entirely satisfied with the judgment then pronounced.
It has been supposed, in the argument for the plaintiff, that
the proceedings in Congress upon the report of the commissioners in relation to the title claimed under the Spanish
'authorities, which have now been referred to, distinguish this
case from that of Pollard v. Hagan. But this Spanish title
wqs acquired in 1809, and it has been repeatedly decided that
a Spanish grant in this territory, whether inchoate or complete,
made after the treaty of St. Ildefonso, in 1800, did not convey
any right in the soil to the grantee. And this subject was
again considered and decided, after careful research and examination, at the present term, in the case of Reynes v. United
States, and the former decisions reaffirmed. Undoubtedly,
Congress might have granted this land to the patentee, or confirmed his Spanish grant, before Alabama became a State. But
this was not done. And the existence of this imperfect and
inoperative Spanish grant could not enlarge the power of the
United States over the place in question after Alabama became
a State, nor authorize the general government to grant or confirm a title to land when the sovereignty and dominion over it
had become vested'in the State.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama is therefore
affirmed.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

47$

Atkinson's Lessee v. Cummins.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Alabama, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the
said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,

affirmed, with costs.

LESSEE or IsAAc ATxiNSON, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. JOHN CVMUIuNS.

The rule of evidence, as stated by Tindal, Chief Justice, in the casb of Miller v.
Travers (8 Bingh. 244), sanctioned by this court, viz.: -" In all cases where a
difficulty arises in applying the words of a will or deed to tho subject-matter of

the devise or grant, the difficulty or ambiguity which is introduced by the admission of extrinsic evidence may be rebutted or removed by the production of further evidence upon the same subject calculated to explain what was the estate or

subject-matter really intended to be granted or devised."
Therefore, where the sheriff sold a tract of land under afrifacias, and made a deed"
of it to the purchaser, and it appeared afterwards that the debtor had two tracts
near to, but separated from each other, nd the sheriff'g deed described one tract
accurately except that it called to bound upon two parcels of land which were actually conttgutus to the other tract, and the purchaser took possession of that to
which the description was mainly applicable, and retained possession for neatly
twenty years, parol evidence was admissible to show that the levy and sale applied
to one tract only, and not both.

THIS case came up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
It was an action of ejectment brought in the Circuit Court
by Isaac Atkinson, a citizen of Ohio, to recover a tract of land
in Derry township, Westmoreland County and State of Pennsylvania.
The whole case was stated in the bill of exceptions, which
it is only necessary to recite.
Copy of Bill of Exceptions.
"In the Circuit Court of the United States, Western District
of Pennsylvania.
"RxcHARD SMITri, Lessee of IsAAC "ATKINSN, a Citizen of the
State of Ohio, v. WILLIAM STIL S, with Notice to JoHN CumMINS, a Citizen of the State of Pennsylvania."November Term, A. D. 1846.- Action of Ejectment.
"Be it remembered, that at the November term, A. D. 1846,
of the said court, before the Honorable R. C. Grier, an associate
justice of the Supreme Cotirt of the United States, and the

