JANUARY TERM, 1850.

603

Fleming et al. v. Page.

The order of the dourt explains the ground of its dismissal,
upon. the motion of 31r. Coxe.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, and on the motion of Richard S.
Coxe, Esquire,. of counsel for the defendant in error, stating
that no citation had been issued or served upon the defendant
in error, was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, with costs.

OSEPH FLEMING AND WILLIA A. MARSHALL, TRADING UNDER THE
FIRM oF FLEMING & MARSHALL, V. JAMES PAGE, COLLECTOR OF
THE UNITED STATES.
During the war between the United States and: Mexico, the port of Tampico, in the
Mexican State of Tamaulipas, was conquered, and possession of it held by the
military authorities of the United States, acting under the orders of the President.
The President acted as. a military commander prosecuting a war waged against a
public enemy by the auhority of his government, and the conquered country was
held in possession in order to distress and harass the enemy.
It did not thereby become a part of the Union. The boundaries of the United
States were not extended by the conquest.
Tampico was, therefore, a foreign port, within the meaning of the act of Congress
passed on the 30thof July, 1846, and duties were properly levied upon goods imported into the United States from Tampico.
The administrative departments of the government have never recognized a place in
a newly acquired country as a domestic port, from which the coasting trade might
be carried on, unless it had been previously made so by an act of Congress; and
the principle thus adopted has always been sanctioned by the Circuit Courts of the
United States, and by this court.
THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, on a certificate
of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an action brought by Fleming and Marshall against
Page, collector of the port of Philadelphia, in one of the State
courts of Pennsylvania, in 1847, to recover back certain duties
on goods, wares, and merchandise, imported into the port of
Philadelphia from Tampico, in Mexico, in March and June of
that year. The case was afterwards, in 1848, taken into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, and was tried May term, 1849, when the jury
found for the plaintiffs. A motion was thereafter made, on

604

SUPREME COURT.
Fleming et al. v. Page.

behalf of the United States, to set aside the verdict, and for a
pew trial on the grounds, -1st. That the learned judge erred in charging the jury that,
in the year 1847, Tampico was not a portion of a foreign
country within the meaning of the first section of the act of
Congress of the United States passed 30th July, 1846, entitled
"An act reducing the duties on imports, and for other purposes."
2d. Tiat the learned judge erred in charging the jury that,
in the year 1847, Tampico was so far under the dominion of
the United States, that i goods, wares, and merchandise imported froth that port into Philadelphia, in March and June of
that year, were not subject to the payment of duties.
3d. That the -learned judge erred in charging the jury that,
upon the facts in evidence, the plaintiffs were entitled to a verdict for the amount of "duties paid under protest on the 15th
of June, 1847, on merchandise imported in the schooner Catharine, from Tampico, into the port of Philadelphia, in March
and June, 1847.
And the following case was stated for the opinion of the
court:
"FLEMING

AND MARSHALL v. PAGE.

"This action is brought by the plaintiffs, merchants, residing
in the city of Philadelphia, against the defendant, the late collector of the .port of Philadelphia, to recover the sum of one
thousand five hundred and twenty-nine dollars, duties paid on
the 14th of June, 1847, under protest, on goods belonging to
the plaintiffs, brought from Tampico while that place was in
the military occupation of the forces of the United: Sfates.
"On the 13th of May, .1846, 'the Congress of the United
States declared that war existed with Mexico. In the summer
of that year,.New Mexico and California were.subdued by the
A)merican armied, and military occupation taken of them, which.
continued until the treaty of peace of May, 1848.
"On the 15th of November, 1846, Commodore Conner took
military possession- of Tampico, a seaport' of the State of
Tamaulipas, and from that time until the treaty of peace it was
garrisoned by American forces, and remained in their military
,occupation. Justice was administered there by courts appointed
under the military authority, and a custom-house was established there, and a collector appointed, under the military and
naval authority.
"On.the 29th o f December, 1846, military possession was
taken by the United States of Victoria, the capital of Tamauli-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

605

Fleming et al. v. Page.

pas; garrisons were established by the Americans at various
posts in that State; and, at the period of the voyages from
Tampico of the schooner Catharine, hereinafter mentioned,
Tamaulipas was reduced to milifary subjection by the forces
of the United States, and so continued until the treaty of.peace.
"On the 19th of December, 1846, the schooner Catharine.
an American vessel chartered by the plaintiffs, cleared coastwise from Philadelphia for Tampico.
"On the 13th of February,' 1847, she was cleared at the
custom-house at Tampico, on her-return voyage to Philadelphia, under a coasting manifest, signed by Frank]in Chase,
United States acting collector.
" The Catharine brought back a cargo of hides, fustic, sarsaparilla, vanilla, and jalap, the property of the plaintiffs, which
was admitted into the port of Philadelphia free of duty. The
Catharine cleared again coastwise from .Philadelphiafor Tampico, on the 18th of March, 1847, and in June, 1847, brought
back a return cargo of similar merchandise, owned by the plaintiffs, which the defendant, acting under the instructions of the
Secretary of the Treasury, refused to admit, unless the duties
on the merchandise brought by the Catharine on her former
voyage were paid, as well as the duties on the goods brought
by her on this voyage.
"Thereupon, the plaintiffs, on the 14th of June, 1847, paid
under:protest the duies on both voyages, amounting to $ 1,529,
and brought this action to recover back the money so paid.
"The question for the decision of the court is, whether the
goods so imported by the Catharine were liable to duty. If
the court are of opinion that they were not so liable, then judgment is to be entered for the plaintiffs, for the sum of $ 1,529,
with interest from the 14th of June, 1847.
"If they are of opinion that they were liable to duty, then
judgment is to be entered for the defendant.
"It is agreed, 'that all instructions from the several departments of the government to any of its officers, and all documents of a public nature, touching the war with Mexico or our
relations with that country, which either party may desire to
bring to the attention of the ccurt, shall be considered as if
made part of this case.'
"McCALL, for Plaintiffs.
ASHMEAD, for Defendant."
The cause having come on to be argued on the case stated,
the judges of the Circuit Court were opposed in opinion on the
following point :51*

606

SUPREME COURT.
Fleming et al. v. Page.

"Whether Tampico, in the year 1847, while in the military
occupation of the forces of the United States, ceased to be a
foreign country, within the meaning of the first section of the
act of Congress passed 30th July, 1846, entitled, 'An act reducing the duty on imports, and for other purposes' ; so that
goods, wares, and merchandise of the, produce, grqwth, and
manufacture of Mexico, or any part thereof, imported into the
port of Philadelphia from Tampico, during said military occupation, were not subject to the payment of the duties prescribed
by the said act, but entitled to be entered free of duty as from
a domestic port."
The first section of the act of 30th July, 1846, above referred
to, is as follows: " That from and after the first day of December next, in lieu
of the duties heretbfore imposed by law on the articles hereinafter mentioned, and on such as may now be exempt from duty,
there shall be levied, collected, and paid, on the goods, wares,
and merchandise herein enumerated and provided for, imported
from foreign countries, the following rates of duty," &c. Session'Laws, Statutes at Large, 42.
Upon the above certificate of division in opinion, the case
came upto this court.
It was argued by Mr. McCall and Mr. Webster, for the
plaintiffs, and by Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General), for the defendant.
Mr. McCall, for the plaintiffs, contended, that Tampico, at
the time of the shipment of the goods, being in the firm possession of the United States by conquest and military occupation,
was not a foreign country within-the meaning of the act of July
30, 1846, and, consequently, that the goods brought in the
Catharine were not liable to duty.
The act of July 30, 1846, reducing the duty on imports and
for other purposes, provides that there shall be collected on
the goods, wares, and merchandise therein enumerated, imported from foreign countries, certain rates of duty.
The first question, then, is, What is a foreign country, within
the meaning of the revenue laws?
A foreign country is one exclusively within the sovereignty
of a foreign nation, and without the sovereignty of the United
Siates. This is the well-settled meaning of the word "foreign," in acts of Congress. 1 Gall. 58, 55; 1 Story, 1; 2 Gall.
4, 485; 1 Brock. 241; 4 Wheat. 254.
If,then, Tampico, during its pcupation by the forces of the

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

6W

Fleming et al. v. Page.

United States, was not exclusively within the sovereigntybf
Mexico, it follows that it was not a foreign country, and consequently the goods brought from it were not liable to duty.
Tampico, during its military occupation by our forces, was
under the sovereignty and within the jurisdiction of the United
States. The sovereignty of Mexico over it was sup'rseded by
that of the United States.
This change of sovereignty, as a consequence of firm military
occupation, is as settled as any other principle of the law of
nations, and has been repeatedly recognized by the highest
authority in this country. United States v. Rice, 4 Wheat. 246.
It might suffice to refer simply to the case of Castine, which
contains a lucid exposition of the law of nations on the point
in question, and is conceived to be decisive of the present case.
It is propozed, however, to bring to the attention of the court
some additional authorities on the subject of the legal effect
of the capture and firm possession -such as existed in the case
of Tampico and the State of Tamaulipas- of a portion of an
enemy's territory.
The result of the authorities may be briefly stated as follows. The duty of allegiance is reciprocal to the duty of
protectidn. When, therefore, a nation is unable to protect a
portion of its territory from the superior force of an enemy, it
loses its claim to the allegiance of those whom it fails to protect, and the conquered inhabitants pass under a temporary
allegiance to the conqueror, and are bound by such laws, and
such only, as he may choose to impose. The sovereignty of
the nation which is thus unable to protect its territory is displaced, and that of the successful conqueror is substituted in its
stead.
The jurisdiction of the conqueror is complete. He may
change the form of government and the laws at his pleasure,
and may exercise every attribute of sovereignty. The conquered territory becomes a part of the domain of the conqueror,
subject to the right of the nation to which it belonged to recapture it if they can.' By reason of this right to recapture,
the title of the conqueror is not perfect until confirmed by
treaty of peace. But this imperfection in his title is, practically speaking, important only in case of alienation made by
the conqueror before treaty. If he sells, he sells subject to the
right of recapture.
But although, for purposes of sale, the title of the conqueror is imperfect before cession, for purposes of government
and jurisdiction his title is perfect before cession. As long as
he retains possession he is sovereign; and not the less sovereign because his sovereignty may not endure for ever.

608

SUPREME COURT.
Fleming et aL v. Page.

Grotius (ch. 6, book 3, § 4), speaking of the right tq things
taken in war, says that land is .reputed lost which is so secured
by fortifications that without their being forced it cannot be
repossessed by the first owner. And in ch. 8, book 3, treating
of empire over the conquered, he shows that sovereignty may
be acquired by conquest.
Wolffius, in his treatise De Jure Gentium (ch. 7, De Jure
Gentium in Bello, § 863), states the doctrine very strongly.
Puffendorf, book 8, qh. 11, title "How Subjection ceases";
same author, Treatise on the Duties of the Man and the Citizen,
book 2, ch. 10, § 2; Bynkershoek on the Law of War, Duponceau's translation, 124; 2 Burlamaqui, 74; Vattel, book
3, ch. 13, and book 1, ch. 17; Martens on the Law of Nations,
book 8, ch. 3, § 8; Wheaton, Elements of Internatidnal Law,
p. 44 0; 7 Co. 17, b; Dyer, 224, a, pl. 29; 2 P. Wins. 75;
Cdwper, 204; Dodson, 450; 2 Hagg. Consistory Rep. 371;
9 Cranch, 191; 7 Peters, 86; 2 Gall: 485; 4 Wheat. 246; 1
Opinions of Attorney-General, 119.
These authorities seem to establish conclusively, 1st, That, by conquest and firm military occupation of a portion of an enemy's country, the sovereignty of the nation to
which the conquered territory beJongs is subverted, and the
sovereignty of the conqueror is substituted in its place.
2d. That although this sovereignty, until cession by treaty,
is subject to be ousted by the enemy, and therefore does not
give an indefeasible title for purposes of alienation, yet while it
exists it is supreme, and confers jprisdiction without limit over
the conquered territory, and the right to allegiance in return for
protection.
It follows that Tampico, while in the military possession of
our forces, passed from the sovereignty of Mexico to the sovereignty of the United States, and was subject in the fullest
manner to the jurisdiction of the United States, and therefore
could in no, correct sense be said to be foreign to the United
States.
IIt. cannot be denied that these principles, established by the
common consent of the civilized world, must govern the title
to conquests made by the United States. As one of the family
of nations, they are bound by the law of nations, and the nature and'effect of their acquisitions by conquest must be defined
and regulated by that law.
That the United States may acquire territory by conquest
results from their power to make war. They cannot in this
respect be less competent than all the other nations of the
worrd. The right to acquire by conquest is an inseparable inCident to the right to maintain-war.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

609

Fleming et al. v. Page.

Mr. Justice Story, in the third volume of his Commentaries
on the Constitution, says, at p. 160:
"-The Constitution confers on the government of the Union the power of making war
and of making treaties; and it seems consequently to possess
the power of acquiring territory either by conquest or treaty."
And at p. 193: - " As the geieral government possesses
the right to acquire territory, either by conquest or treaty, it
would seem to follow as an inevitable consequence that it possesses the power to govern what it has so acquired."
Chief Justice Marshall, in the Am. Ins. Co. v. Canter, 1 Peters, "542, treats it as clear. "1The Constitution," says he,
11confers absolutely on the government of the Union the powers of making war and of making treaties; consequently, that
government possesses the power of acquiring territory either by
conquest or treaty."
The messages of the President to Congress during the war,
and the instructions from the heads of departments, contain aw,
thoritative declarations as to the right of the* United States tfo
acquire foreign territory by conquest, and as to the effect of
such conquest upon the sovereignty of the conquered territory,
in accordance with the principles above stated. Thus, the
President, in his message of December, 1846, says : - " By the
law of nations a conquered territory is subject to be governed
by the conqueror during his military possession, and until there
is 'either a treaty of peace or *he shall voluntarily withdraw
from it. The old civil government being necessarily superseded, it is the right and duty of the conqueror to secure his
conhuest, and to provide for the maintenance of civil order and
the rights of the inhabitants. This right has been exercised
and this duty performed by our military and naval commanders, by the establishment of temporary governments in some of
the conquered provinces in Mexico, assimilating them as. far
as practicable to the free institutions of our own country."
See also the message of 7th December, 1847.
The instructions from the Secretary of War to General
Kearney, commanding the expedition to New Mexico and California, dated June 3, 1846, (House Doc. No. 60, 1st Sess. 30th
Congress, p. 153,) which were transmitted to General Taylor,
with liberty to observe the same course of conduct in the departments that might be conquered by him, provide for the establishment of temporary civil governments, recommend the
employment of such of the existing civil officers as were known
to be friendly to the United States, and would take the oath of
allegiance to them, and authorize him to assure the people of
those provinces of the wish and design of the United States to

610

SUPREME COU.RT.
Fleming et al. v. Page.

provide for them a free government, with the least possible delay, similar to that which exists in our territories.
See also the instructions of the Secretary of. the Navy to
the officers commanding the naval forces in the Pacific.
Reference is also made to the circular from the Treasury
Department to collectors and other officers of the customs,
which contains the following clause: -" Foreign imports,
which may be regxported in our vessels to Matamoras, will not
be entitled to any drawback of duty; for if this were permitted, they would be carried from that port into the United
States, and thus evEide the payment of all duties. Whenever
any other port or place upon the Mexican side of the Rio
Grande shall have- passed into the actual possession, of the
forces of the United States, such ports and places will be subject t9 all the above instructions.which are applicable to the
port of Matamoras."
Mr. Johnson for the defendant, Page, contended that Tampico, in the year 1847, although in the military occupation of
the forces of the United States, was a foreign country within
.the meaning of the first section of the Revenue Act of 30th
July, 1846; and therefore plaintiffs below were not entitled to
recover back the duties paid by them.
Mr. Johnson said that the President, in the exercise of his
constitutioial power as commander-in-chief of the army, determined that the war must suppdrt itself as far as practicable;
that Mexico must be made to furnish contributions in every
way. The operations of the army were therefore continued
until it conquered as much territoryas originally b elonged to
the old thirteen States, and the capital of the enemy fell into
its hands. Our flag covered all this country, and if the argument on the other side is sound, every port in Mexico became a
domestic port of the United States. The government may ac.quire territory under the war power and by conquest; also,
under the treaty-making power; and under either it is as much
the property of the United States as the territory which belonged to us at the adoption of the Constitution. But with
this admission we must stop. The President is not the government. The argument on the other side implies that the
President can acquire whatever territory he chooses. The
error isin supposing that an analogy exists between our gQvernment and that of England. ThD power to declare war is
differently placed. The counsel says that the power to declaze war carries with it a right .to. conquer the country of the
enemy. But Congress alone has the power to declare war, and

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

611

Fleming et al. v. Page.

the President is only the agent of Congress in carrying it on.
Sir William Scott and Lord Mansfield may be right when they
say, that, instantly upon the conquest of 4 country, the laws bf
England are extended over it. But it is not so with us.
The cases cited say that the conqueror becomes proprietor.
But our Constitution says that Congress has the power to make
rules for the government of territories. If the argument on
the other side be sound, it must be the President who has this
power. The true view of the subject is, that the President, or
rather the United States, had only a quasi ownership of the
conquered country. We held it by a military title only. The
treaty with Mexico recognized this as Mexican country. When
she regained it, her title did not accrue under the treaty with
us, but the original sovereignty was regstablished. Our claim
to California does not rest on conquest, but on the subsequent
treaty. Instead of the extension of our laws over the acquired
territory being the result of mere conquest, as in England, the
President recommended that Congress should pass an act for
this special purpose.
Mr. Johnson then referred to and commented upon the following authorities and documents.
The Foltina, 1 Dodson, 450; Campbell v. Hall, 1 Cowper,
204; Thirty hhds. of Sugar, 9 Cranch, 191; United States v.
Rice, 4 Wheat. 246; 1 Black. Com. 257.
Act of March 1, 1817, "An act concerning the navigation
of the United States." 3 Stat. at Large, 351.
Circular of Mr. Crawford, Secretary of the Treasury, of 29th
September, 1817, on the subject of that act.
Act declaring the existence of war between the United States
and Mexico, May 13, 1846. Session Laws of 1846, Stat. at
Large, 9.
Treaty of peace with Mexico, February 2, 1848. Session
Laws, 1848, Stat. at Large, 108.
President Polk's message to Congress, 1846-47. 1 Executive Documents, 2d Session 29th Congress, No. 4.
President Polk's Message to Congress, 1847-48. 1 Executive Documents, 1st Session 30th Congress, No. 8.
Circulars of Mr. Walker, Secretary of the Treasury, to collectors and officers of. the customs within the United States,
during the existence of war with Mexico, 11th June, 1846
(1 Mayo, 326); 30th June, 1846 (Ibid. 328); 8th December,
1846 (Ibid. 358);. 16th December, 1846 (Ibid. 358); 7th April,
1847 (Ibid. 425).
President Polk to Secretary Walker, 23d March, 1847, 1
Mayo, 412.

612

SUPREME COURT.
Fleming et al. v. Page.

Secretary Walker to the President, 30th March, 1847, 1
Mayo, 413.
President to Secretaries of War and Navy, 31st March, 1847,
1 Mayo, 415, 417.
Instructions of Secretaries of War and Navy to officers, 3d
April, 1847, 1 Mayo, 416, 417.
Secretary Walker to' the President, 10th June, 1847, and
orders of President thereon, 1 Mayo,'425.
The same to the same, 5th November, 1847, 1 Mayo, 425,
426.
The same to the same, 16th November, 1847, Ibid. 426,
427.
Commodore Conner's despatch as to surrender of Tampico,
17th November, 1846. 7 Executive Documents, 1st Session
30th Congress, No. 60, p. 270.
See also General Taylor's despatch to Adjutant-General, 26th
November, 1847, Ibid. 378.
The construction contended for by the other side would render illegal the whole action of the government. A tariff was
prescribed under the authority of the President, by which certain duties were levied upon goods when imported into Mexican ports when they were in our possession. Where did he
get that power? Not from any act of Congress laying those
duties, but in virtue of his character as commander-in-chief of
the army, and in the exercise of military authority over the
conquered country. If these pbrts were within the Ufiited
States, the President would have no right to collect a revenue
from them. The money was not only collected, but also disbursed by officers of the army and navy for the maintenance
of the public service, without being brought into the treasury
of the United States. All this practice must be condemned,
and the money thus collected refunded, if the court should decide Tampico to have been an American port. All the inhabitants, too, must have become converted into American citizens.
111r. Webster, in reply and conclusion, said that there was a
difference between the Territories and the other parts of the
United States. Judges were there appointed for terms of years,
'which the Constitution forbade as to other parts of the country.
Hence, the part of the Constitution which directs that duties
must be equal in'all the ports of the United States does not
apply to Territories. A foreign country is that which is without the sovereignty of the United States, and exclusively within the sovereignty of some other nation. In the Castine case,
this court decided that the question must be tested by the soy-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

613

Fleming 'et al v. Page.

ereignty. If that is in the United States, then the port is not a
foreign port. Its being held under a military power makes no
difference. We think it is the fact of sovereignty which decides to what nation the port belongs. The difference between
this country and England, as-to the source of the war-making
power, is supposed by the Attorney-General to create a difference in the rule which governs exports and imports; but he
shows no reason or authority for this conclusion. If the fact
of sovereignty'exists, it is no matter whether there was a war
or not. His argument is, that the acquisition accrues to Congress, because Congress possesses the war-making power. We
agree that the acquisition accrues to the government which
conquers it, and if he could show that it does not accrue to the
crown in England until there is some act of acceptance' then
his argument would have weight. But there is no case to
show this. The presumption is, that the. acquisition accrues
to the power which makes the conquest, and that sovereignty
vests immediately. 1 Cowper, 208. The- best exposition of
this matter is contained in Executive Documents, House, No.
20, 2d Session of the 30th Congress. The right to conquer
the territory of the enemy, and levy contributions,; is claimed
under the laws of nations. Congress could not have directed
the mode of carrying on the war. The consequences of acts
done under the laws of nations are just the same in this government as in all others. The theory that a conquest accrues
to the king in England is merely technical. As to Florida,
the treaty was not ratified until. 1821 or 1822, although made
in 1819. The Treasury CircUlar of 29th June, 1845, recites a
circular from 'the Department issued in the Florida case, saying
that goods from Pensacola must pay duties until Congress created a collection district there. But this was a misapprehension of the true ground of this decision. The Attorney-General (Ex. Doc., 2d Session 25th Congress, p. 358), in the case
of the Olive Branch, said that the jurisdiction of the fdrmer
sovereign continued until possession was delivered. The reason was, that Florida was not ceded. Thee vessel sailed from
Pensacola on the 14th of July, and possession was-not delivered
to the United States until the 17th of July.
The Attorney-General says, that our title to California rests
upon treaty, and not upon' conquest. But it was ours before
the treaty was made, and goods were brought from there into
the United States free of duty. In the case of, Tampico, how
can we move an inch without seeing that it was an American
port? Here are instructions from the executive departnent.
of the government to regulate things there for a year before
VOL. ix.

52

614

SUPREME COURT.
Fleming et al. v. Page.

Congress took up the matter. An effort is made to connect
this subject with the military contributions. But they are not
alike. This case relates to our own office in the city of Philadelphia. It has no connection with contributions levied in
Mexico, or collecting duties there. Tampico belonged to us
just as much as Castine belonged to the British. Possession
for one purpose is possession for all purposes. If it did not belong to us, whose was it? Did it belong to Mexico ? Suppose a British or French fleet had attacked it whilst our flag
was -flying over it, would it not have been considered as making war upon the United States?
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The question certified by the Circuit Court turns upon the
construction of the act of Congress of July 30, 1846. The duties levied upon the cargo of the schooner Catharine were the
duties imposed by this law upon goods imported from a foreign
country. And if at the time of this shipment Tampico was
not a foreign port within the meaning of the act of Congress,
then the duties were illegally charged, and, having been paid
under protest, the plaintiffs would be entitled to recover in this
action the amount exacted by the collector.
The port of Tampico, at which the goods were shipped, and
the Mexican State of Tamaulipas, in which it is situated, were
undoubtedly at the time of the shipment subject to the sovereignty and dominion of the United States. The Mexican authorities had been driven out, or had submitted to our army
and navy; and the country was in the exclusive and firm possession of the United States, and governed by its military authorities, acting under the orders of the President. But it does
nott follow that it was a part of the United States, or that it
ceased to be a foreign country, in the sense in which these
words are used in the acts of Congress.
The country in question had been conquered in war. But
the genius and character of our institutions are peaceful, and
the power to declare war was not conferred upon Congress for
the purposes of aggression or aggrandizement, but to enable the
general government to vindicate by arms, if it should become
necessary, its own rights and the rights of its citizens.
A war, therefore, declared by Congress, can never be presumed to be waged for the purpose of conquest or the acquisition of territory; nor does the law declaring the war imply
an authority to the President to enlarge the limits of the United
States by subjugating the enemy's country. The United States,
it is true, may extend its boundaries by conquest or treaty, and

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

615

Fleming et al. v. Page.

may demand the cession of territory as the condition of peace,
in order to indemnify its citizens for the injuries they have
suffered, or to reimburse the government for the expenses
of the war. But this can be done only by the treaty-making
power or the legislative authority, and is not a part of the power conferred upon the President by the declaration of war.
His duty and his power are purely military. As commanderin-chief, he is authorized to direct the movements of the naval
and military forces placed by law at his command, and to employ them in the manner he may deem most effectual to harass
and conquer and subdue the enemy. He may invade the hostile country, and subject it to the sovereignty and authority
of the United States. But his conquests do not enlarge the
boundaries of this Union, nor extend the operation of our institutions and laws'beyond the limits before assigned to them by
the legislative power.
It is true, that, when Tampico had been captured, and the
State of Tamaulipas subjugated, other nations were bound to
regard the country, while our possession continued, as the territory of the United States, and to respect it as such. For, by
the laws and usages of nations, conquest is a valid title, While
the victor maintains the exclusive possession of the conquered
country. The citizens of no other nation, therefore, had a
right to enter it without the permission of the American authorities, nor to hold intercourse with its inhabitants, nor to trade
with them. As regarded all other nations, it was a part of the
United States, and belonged to them as exclusively as the territory included in our established boundaries.
But yet it was not a part of this Union. For every nation
which acquires territory by treaty or conquest holds it according to its own institutions and laws. And the relation in which
the port of Tampico stood to the United States while it was
occupied by their arms did 'not depend upon the laws of nations, but upon our own Constitution and acts of Congress.
The power of the President under which Tampico and the
State of Tamaulipas were conquered and. held in subjection
i4as simply that of a military.commander prosecuting a war
waged against a public enemy by the authority of his government. And the country from which these goods were imported
was invacted and subdued, and .occupied as the territory of a
foreign hostile nation, as a 'portion of Mexico, ,nd was held. in
possession in order to distress and harass the enemy. While
it was occupied by our troops, they were in an enemy's country, and not in their own; the inhabitants were still foreigners
and enemies, and owed to the United States nothing more than

SUPREME COURT.
Fleming et al. v. Page.

the submission and obedience, sometimes called temporary allegiance, which is due from a conquered enemy, when he surrenders to a force which he is unable -to resist. But the boundaries of the United States, as they existed when war was declared against Mexico, were not extended by the conquest; nor
could they .be regulated by the varying incidents of war, and
be enlarged or diminished as the armies on either side advanced
They iemined unchanged. And every place
or retreated.
Which was out of the limits of the United States, as previously
established by the political authorities of the government, was
still foreign; nor did our laws extend over it. Tampico was,
therefore, a foreign port when this shipment was made.
Again, there was no act of Congress establishing a customhouse at Tampico, nor authorizing the appointment of a collector; and, consequently, there was no officer of the United
States authorized by law to grant the clearance and authenticate the coasting manifest of the cargo, in the manner directed
by law, where the voyage is from one port of the United States
to another. The pers n who acted in the character of collector
in this instance, acted as such under the authority of the military commander, and in obedience to his orders; and the duties
he exacted, and the regulations he adopted, were not those
prescribed by law; but hy the President in his character of
commander-in-chief. The custom-house was established in an
enemy's country, as one of the weapons of war. It was established, not for the purpose of giving to the people of Tamaulipas the benefits of commerce with the United States, or with
other countries, but as a measure of hostility, and as a part of
the military operations in Mexico; it was a mode of exacting
contributions from the enemy to support our army, and intended also to cripple the resources of Mexico, and make it feel
the evils and burdens of the war. The duties required to be paid
were regulated with this view, and were nothing more than
contributions levied upon the enemy, which the usages of war
justify when an- army is operating in the enemy's country.
The permit and coasting manifest granted by an officer thus
appointed, and thus controlled by military authority, could not
be recognized in any port of the United States, as the documents required by the act of Congress when the vessel is engaged in the coasting trade, nor could they exempt the cargo
from the payment of duties.
This construction of the revenue laws has been uniformly
given by the administrative department of the government in
-every case that has come before it. And it has, indeed, been
given in cases where there appears to have been stronger

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

617

Fleming et al. v. Page.

ground for regarding the place of shipment as a domestic port.
For after Florida had been ceded to the United States, and the
forces of the United States had taken possession of Pensacola,
it was decided by the Treasury Department, that goods imported from Pensacola before an act of Congress was passed erecting it into a collectidn district, and authorizing the appointment
of a collector, were liable to duty. That is, that although
Florida had, by cession, actually become a part of the United
States, and was in our possession, yet, under our revenue laws,
its ports must be regarded as foreign until they were establisbed as domestic, by act of Congress; and it appears that this
decision was sanctioned at the time by the Attorney-General
of the United States, the law officer of the government. And
although not so directly applicable to the qase before us, yet
the decisions of the Treasury Department in relation to Amelia
Island, and certain ports in Louisiana, after that province had
been ceded to the United States, were both made upon the
same grounds. And in the latter case, after a custom-house
had been established by law at New Orleans, the collector at
that place was instructed to regard as foreigm ports Baton Rouge
and other settlements still in the possession of Spain, whether
on the Mississippi, Iberville, or the sea-coast. The Department
in no instance that we are aware of, since the establishment of
the government, has ever recognized a place in a newly acquired country as a domestic port, from which the coasting
trade might be carried on, unless it had been previously made
so by act of Congress.
• The principle thus adopted and acted upon by the executive'
department of the government has been sanctioned by the decisions in this court and the Circuif Courts whenever the question came before them. We do not propose to comment upon
the different cases cited in the argument. It is sufficient to say,
that there is no discrepancy between them. And all of them,
so far as they apply, maintain, that under our revenue laws
every port is regarded as a foreign one, unless the customhouse from which the vessel clears is within a collection district established by act of Congress, and the officers granting
the clearance exercise their functions underthe authority and
control of the laws of the United States.
In the view we have taken of this question, it is unnecessary
to notice particularly the passages from eminent writers on the
laws of nations which were brought forward in the argument.
They speak altogether of the rights which a sovereign acquires,
and the powers he may exercise in a conquered country, and
they do not bear upon the question we are considering. For
52*

618

SUPREME COURT.
Fleming et al. v. Page.

in this country the sovereignty of the United States resides in
the people of the several States, and they act through their
representatives, according to the delegation and distribution
of powers contained in the Constitution. And the constituted authorities to whom the power of making war and concluding peace is confided, and of determining whether a conquered country shall be permanently retained or not, neither
claimed nor exercised any rights or powers in relation to the
territory in question but the rights of war. After it was subdued, it was uniformly treated as an enemy's country, and restored to the possession of the Mexican authorities when peace
was concluded. And certainly its subjugation did iot compel
the United States, while they held it, to regard it as a part of
their dominiens, nor to give to it any form of civil government,
nor to extend to it our laws.
Neither i§ it necessary to examine the English decisions
which have been referred to by counsel. It is true that most
of the States have adopted the principles of English jurisprudence, so far as it concerns private and individual rights. And
when such rights are in question, we habitually refer to the
English decisions, not only with respect, but in many cases as
authoritative. But in the distribution of political power between the great departments of government, there is such a
wide difference between the power conferred On the President
of the United States,' and the authority and sovereignty which
belong to the English crown, that ,it would be altogether unsafe to reason from any supposed resemblance between them,
either as regards conquest in war, or any other subject where
the rights and powerm of the executive arm of the government
are brought into question. Our own Constitution and form of
government must be our only guide. And we are entirely satisfied that, under the Constitution and laws of the United
States, Tampico was a foreign port, within the meaning of the
act of 1846, when thbse goods were shipped, and that the cargoes were'liable to the duty charged upon them. And we shall
certify accordingly to the Circuit Court.
Mr. Justice McLEAN dissented.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard. on the transcript of .the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, and on the point or question on which
the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion,
and whieh was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

619

Marriott v. Brune et al.

to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court, that Tampico was a foreign port within the meaning of the act of Congress of. July 30, 1846, entitled "An act
reducing the duties on imports, and for other purposes," and
that the goods, wares, and merchandise as set forth and described in the record were liable to the duties charged upon
them under said act of Congress. Whereupon it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to
the said Circuit Court.

WILLIAx

H.

MARRIOTT, PLAINTIFF

IN

ERROR,

V.

FREDERICK W.

BRUNE, J6mN C. BRUNE, AND WILLIAx H. BRUNE, COPARTNERS,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM oF F. W. BRUNE & SoNs.
By the eleventh section of the act of Congress passed on the 30th of July, 1846
(Stat. at Large, Pamphlet, page 46), the duties upon imported sugar are fixed at
thirty per cent. ad va.zkrent.
The true construction of this law is, tat the duty should he charged only upon that
quantity of sugar and molasses which arrives in our ports, and not upon the quantity which appears by the invoice to have been shipped; an allowance being proper
for leakage.
The proviso in the eighth section, viz. "that under no circumstance shall the duty be
assessed upon an amount less than the invoice value," is not in hostility with the
above construction, because the proviso refers only to the price, and not to the
quantity.
A protest made -afterthe payment of the duties charged, and after the case had been
closed up, will not enable a party to recover back the money from the collector;
but if the protest be made in a single case, with a design to include subsequent
cases, and the money remains in the hands of the collector without being paid into
the treasury, and it was so understood by all parties, such a protest will entitle the
importer to recover the money from the collector.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Maryland.
It was an action of assunrpsit brought by F. W. Brune &
Sons against William H. Marriott, the collector of the port of
Baltimore, to recover back certain duties upon importations of
sugar and molasses, which, it was alleged, had been illegally
charged, and paid under protest.
The importations were made in various vessels, and at various times, between the 2d of February, 1847, and the 4th of
November, 1848.
On the 3d of February, 1847, the Secretary of the Treasury
addressed to Mr. Marriott the following letter -

