-602

SUPREME COURT.
logan et a.

v. Ross.

ing or tendering to the appellee the amount found to be due,.
and in case the money is not paid or tendered by a day to be
fixed lay the Circuit Court, then the certificates to be sold, and
the proceeds apportioned between- the .parties in the manner
herein directed.
In taking the account, the appellee is to be allowed the whole
amount of the loans and advances to Gardiner, for which these
three certificates were ultimately left in pledge. And as the
appellant did not offer to rbdeem them, and insisted on their
absolute re-delivery to him, the court think that, under the circumstances as they appear in the record, the' appellee is equitably entitled to his costs in the Circuit Court, and they are
accordingly in the account to be charged against the appellant.
But as regards the costs in this court, the appellant, by the established rules and: practice of the court, is entitled to recover
them, and they must be charged against the appellee.
A mandate will be issued to the Circuit Court in conformity
with this opinion.
Order.
'This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Distriet of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, itis now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the saia Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs for the appellant in this court,
and 'that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
,the' said Circuit Court, with directions to that court to proceed
•therein in conformity to the opinion of this court, and as to
law and.justice shall appertain.

SxiTH HOGAN,

ARTHU S. HOGAN, ArN RiCHARD Y. REY-OLDS,

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. AARON

OF

Ross, WHo SUES FOR TEE USE

ROBERT PATTERSON.

Wlhire no citation had been issued or served upon the defendant in error, the cause
must be dismissed on motion.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court ot the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

603

Fleming et al. v. Page.

The order of the dourt explains the ground of its dismissal,
upon. the motion of 31r. Coxe.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi, and on the motion of Richard S.
Coxe, Esquire,. of counsel for the defendant in error, stating
that no citation had been issued or served upon the defendant
in error, was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, with costs.

OSEPH FLEMING AND WILLIA A. MARSHALL, TRADING UNDER THE
FIRM oF FLEMING & MARSHALL, V. JAMES PAGE, COLLECTOR OF
THE UNITED STATES.
During the war between the United States and: Mexico, the port of Tampico, in the
Mexican State of Tamaulipas, was conquered, and possession of it held by the
military authorities of the United States, acting under the orders of the President.
The President acted as. a military commander prosecuting a war waged against a
public enemy by the auhority of his government, and the conquered country was
held in possession in order to distress and harass the enemy.
It did not thereby become a part of the Union. The boundaries of the United
States were not extended by the conquest.
Tampico was, therefore, a foreign port, within the meaning of the act of Congress
passed on the 30thof July, 1846, and duties were properly levied upon goods imported into the United States from Tampico.
The administrative departments of the government have never recognized a place in
a newly acquired country as a domestic port, from which the coasting trade might
be carried on, unless it had been previously made so by an act of Congress; and
the principle thus adopted has always been sanctioned by the Circuit Courts of the
United States, and by this court.
THIS case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, on a certificate
of division in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an action brought by Fleming and Marshall against
Page, collector of the port of Philadelphia, in one of the State
courts of Pennsylvania, in 1847, to recover back certain duties
on goods, wares, and merchandise, imported into the port of
Philadelphia from Tampico, in Mexico, in March and June of
that year. The case was afterwards, in 1848, taken into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, and was tried May term, 1849, when the jury
found for the plaintiffs. A motion was thereafter made, on

