JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling

647

nd Belmont Bridge Co. Qt aL

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgfent of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.

TaE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA, COMPLAINANT, V. THE WHEELING
AND BELMONt BRIDGE Cox'rANY, WILLIAM OTTERS ".N, AND GEORGE
CRoFT.
In a cause depending in this. court in the exercise 6f original jurisdiction, wherein the
State of Pennsylvania complained of the erection of a bridge across the Ohio
River at Wheeling, the cause was referred to a commissioner, for the purpose of
taking farther proof, with instructions to report to the court by the first day of the
next stated term.

Tins case was transferred to this court by an ordet of Mr.
Justice Grier, one of the judges of the Supreme Court of the
United States, under the following circumstnces.
On the 16th of August, 1849, at the court-room of the Circuit Court of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia, before Mr. Justice Grier, one of the judges of the Supreme Court
of the United States, Mr. Stanton appeared to move for an injunction in behalf of the State of Pennsylvania, at the instance
of her Attorney-General, against the Wheeling and Belmont
Bridge Company, and their agents, William Ottersan and George
Croft.
Notice of the motion was'given on the 28th of July. At the
same time, a copy of the bill was served upon the defendants.
The bill stated, among other things, "1That the Ohio River, being one of the navigable waters
leading into the Mississippi, is, and for a long time hath been,
an ancient navigable public riter, and common highway, free
to be navigated by the citizens df -the State of Pennsylvania,
as Wvell as by all other citizens of the United States. That
heading at. Pittsburg, in the State of Pennsylvaia, and running through that State for thedistance of fifty miles, navigable for its *hole extent from Pittsburg to its mouth, many
citizens of that State long have been, and of right were, and
still are, accustomed to navigate said river, to pass and repass

648

SUPREME COURT.

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et al.

along its course and channel unobstructed and at pleasure, with
their steamboats, transporting passengers in great numbers, carrying large quantities of freight, and conducting a valuable
trade and commerce between the city of Pittsburg, in the
State of Pennsylvania, and the ports of Cincinnati, Louisville,
St. Louis, New Orleans, and many other places on the Ohio
and Mississippi Rivers, and their branches.
"That the defendants are erecting a bridge one hundred
miles below Pittsburg, across the channel of the Ohio River,
between Zane's Island and the main Virginia shore or bank at
Wheeling. That this bridge will hinder and prevent the passage of citizens of the State of Pennsylvania along said river
under said bridge, with their steamboats, as they are commonly
accustomed to do, and will obstruct the navigation of the Ohio
River. That it will interrupt, hinder, and disturb the citizens
of the State of Pennsylvania in their lawful use and enjoyment
of the Ohio River as a common highway, in passing and repassing the same, will increase the difficulty, hazard, and expense of navigating it with tbeir steamboats carrying passengers and freight as they have been accustomed, and are now
doing, and have right to do; and will interrupt, diminish, and
greatly disturb the trade, commerce, and business of the citizens of Pennsylvania over and upon said river, and. between the
city of Pittsburg and other ports on the Ohio and Mississippi
Rivers and their branches; to the great damage and common
nuisance of the citizens of Pennsylvania, as well as of other
citizens of the United States, and to their irreparable injury."
It also stated that the bridge was erected' under color of an
act of the Virginia General Assembly, which provides, ",If the
said bridge, mentioned in the eighth section of this act, shall
be so erected as to obstruct the navigation of the Ohio River in
the usual manner, by such steamboats and other crafts as are
now commonly accustomed to navigat6 the same, when the
river shall be as high as the highest floods heretofore known,
then, unless, upon such obstruction being found to exist, such
obstruction shall be immediately removed or remedied, the said
last-mentioned bridge may be treated as a public nuisance, and
abated accordingly."
That steamboats were accustomed to
navigate the river requiring a space of eighty feet above the
water surface, and that the flood of 1832 was 44J feet above
low-water level, usual spring floods being 35 feet, and that the
bridge was to be only 93 feet above low-water level at its
eastern end, and 62 feet at the west end.
It was also stated, by way of amendment, that the State of
Pennsylvania owned and possessed. certain valuable public im-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

649

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et al.

provements of canals and railways for the transportation of pas-.
sengers and goods, constructed at a great expense, for channels
of commerce, to connect the waters of the Delaware River with
the Ohio at Pittsburg, and the waters of Lake Erie with the
Ohio at Beaver. That from the transportation of passengers
and goods along these works, she was accustomed to receive
large tolls and revenue. That these works terminated at, and
are constructed with direct reference to the free navigation of,
the Ohio River. That the goods and passengers transported to
and from those ports upon her improvements were accustomed
to arrive and depart in steamboats along the Ohio 'River; and
that the Wheeling Bridge would so obstruct the navigation of
the river as to cut off the trade and business along the public
works of Pennsylvania, impair and diminish her tolls and revenue, and render her improvements useless.
The bill prayed injunction and general relief.
With the bill-were filed exhibits, viz.: 1. The Act of Incorporation by the General Assembly of Virginia, under which defendants claim right to erect the bridge.
The charter contains this clause :"1Ifthe said bridge, mentioned in the eighth section of this
act, shall be so erected as to obstruct the navigation of the Ohio
River in the usual manner, by such steamboats and other crafts
as are now commonly accustomed to navyigate the same, when
the river shall be as high as the highest floods heretofore
known, then, unless, upon such obstruction being found to exist,
such obstruction shall be immediately removed or remedied,
the said last-mentioned bridge may be treated as a public nuisance, and abated accordingly."
2. A Report of the Engineer of the Bridge Company, accompanied by a diagram.
In this report, the bridge is represented to be 92 feet, at the
water's edge, above the low-water line on the Wheeling side,
and on the island side 62 feet, deflecting from the water's edge
at Wheeling to the island at the rate of 4 feet in 100.
The report also states, that the flood of 1832 was 44J feet
above the low-water level.
A supplemental bill was also exhibited by complainant's counsel, setting forth that, since the preparation of the original bill
and service of notice, the defendants had proceeded with their
work, and had stretched iron cables across the channel of the
river so as t6 obstruct navigation. It prayed that these might
be abated, and for relief, as in the original bill.
The complainant's counsel then read affidavits to show,
among other things :VOL. IX.
55

650

SUPREME

COURT.

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et aL

1. The amount of steamboat trade and commerce of the
Ohio, between Pittsburg and the ports of Cincinnati, Louisville, St. Louis, New'Orleans, and other places on the Ohio and
Mississippi Rivers.
2. That a large portion of the steamboats engaged in this
trade are owned and navigated, in whole or in part, by citizens
of Pennsylvania.
3. That the principal steamboats engaged in this trade require for free passage from sixty to eighty feet space above the
water surface, and, as now constructed, cannot, on high water,
pass the bridge at Wheeling.
4. That the present diameter and height of their chimneys
have been found by experience to be essential to their speed and
capacity, and cannot be reduced without impairing the fitness
of the boats for profitable and useful trade and.commerce.
5.That their chimneys cannot be lowered so as to pass the
bridge at Wheeling on high water, without changing their construction, at a great expense; and the process of lowering and
hoisting will always be attended with expense, delay, and imminent hazard to the safety of the boat, its crew and passengers, - chimneys being six feet in diameter, and over forty feet
above the hurricane deck.
6. ThAt the Pittsburg packets, and other boats of the largest
class, have been accustomed to navigate the river to and from
Pittsburg, at- their present height, and no boats lower their
chimneys except when compelled by the state of water in the
river to pass through the canal around the falls at Louisville..
7. That the boats accustomed to lower at Louisville are built
with reference to passing through the canal, and are much
smaller in size and capacity than the Pittsburg packets, and
other boats accustomed to navigate the rivers in high waters.
8. Tha;, in the opinion of many practical men, it is impossible to reduce or lower the chimneys of such boats as are engaged in the packet trade. And that the bridge at Wheeling
will so obstruct their navigation at high water, for which they
are specially adapted, as in a great measure to exclude them
from business and diminish their value;there being seven packets, costing each from thirty to forty thousand dollars.
9. That the bridge at Wheeling will so obstruct navigation
that a large'portion of trade hitherto accustomed to pass and
repass to and from Pittsburg will be. excluded from that port
and other ports of Ohio and Pennsylvania above Wheeling.
10. That, irt
the opinion of competent engineers, a bridge
might be so erected as not to obstruct navigation.
The defendants then filed to the original bill their answer,
in which it was set forth, -

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

651

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont .Bridge Co. et al.

That by the statutes of Virginia, .referred to in the bill, the
defendants are the delegates and trustees of certain franchises,
part of the eminent domain of that State, exercisable within
her territory.
That the sovereignty of Virginia over the place in which
this erection is to be made has never been ceded or surrendered.
That the clause of the Ordinance of 1787 which declared that
" the navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and St.
Lawrence, &c., shall be common highways, and for ever free
to the citizens of the*United States," &c., was not intended-to
-operate within the reserved territory and sovereignty of Virginia.
That a free navigation is not to be understood as one free
from such partial or incidental obstacles as the best interests
of society may render necessary, and does not prevent States
from constructing in or over such rivers such beneficial bridges
or useful improvements of navigation as may not materially ob- "
struct them as highways.
That Coiigress, in 1806, ordered a road to'be constructed
from Cumberland to the Ohio, and afterwards provided for its
continuation from the western bank of Ohio to the.Muskingum
River and Zanesville, and so on through the States of Ohio,
Indiana, and Illinois. That this road was- afterwards surrendered to the States through which it passed.
That the passage by ferry between Wheeling and Zane's
Iand was found dilatory and precarious by day, atid ordinarily
useless by night, being frequently impassable on account of

ice &c.
That, a bridge being much.desired by the people of Ohio and
Virginia, acts were passed in 1816 by those StAtes, authorizing
a bridge acrosm the river at Wheeling, but which provided that,
if such bridge should. be so constructed as to injure the navigation ot the said river, it should be treated as a public nuisance,
and'be liable to abatement as other public nuisances. And ten
years were allowed for completion of the bridge.
That, by an-act of Virginia of 1836, certain facilities for the
reorganization of the said company were conferred, and the
time, by-consent of Ohio, extended ten years longer; that this
eompany constructed a bridge from Zane's Island to the Ohio,
or western shore.
That on the 14th of March, 1847, the Legislature of Virginia
passed an act reviving and continuing certain parts of theformer acts, and providing for the reorganization of the corporation "with power to erect and keep a wire suspension tollbridge oti and from Zane's Islaficl to and upoA the main Virginia shore or bank at the city of Wheeling."

652

SUPREME COURT.
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et aI.

That this act had the following proviso: -" That ifthe said
br dge shall be so erected as to obstruct the navigation of the
Ohio River in the usual manner, by such steamboats and other
crafts as are now accustomed to navigate the same, when the
river shall be as high as the highest flood therein heretofore
known, then, unless, upon such obstruction being found to exist, such obstruction shall be immediately removed or remedied,
the said last-mentioned bridge may be treated as a public nuisance, and abated accordingly."
That respondents were organized under this act in May,
1847, and an engineer appointed in July, 1847, who reported a
plan, which was published and extensively circulated, and
made contracts for its erectibn in September, 1847.
That the elevation of the bridge at the highest point over
the channel is over 93i feet above low-water surface.
That for eighteen months past it has been "steadily and notoriously progressed with"; that the persons at whose suggestion these proceedings are instituted must have known it, and
yet, while all this expensive work was being done, no objections
were made, but the work quietly permitted to progress until
nearly the whole cost of the bridge was expended, the first
wires drawn over, and the bridge on the eve of completion.
The arfswer insists on the following grounds of objection to
the proceedings : 1st. That if the evils imputed to this bridge were true, the
persons injured might have remedy in the courts of Virginia,
and her Attorney-General is ready to institute proceedings by
quo warrant6 or indictment.
2d. That the complainant has no corporate capacity to become a party to a suit in the Supreme Court, to protect or vindicate the rights of her citizens, and prays that this part of their
answer may stand for a demurrer or plea, as well as answer.
3d. The defendants admit that the citizens of Pennsylvania,
in common with the citizens of the whole United States, are
entitled to the use of the Ohio as a common or public highway, but claim that their bridge is not an obstruction, and is
'itself a connecting line of a great public highway, as important,
as a means of intercommunication, as the navigation of the
Ohio, and "claim the principle of concession and compromise,
which enters so largely into the structure of our government."
That this bridge will be very beneficial to the people of the
neighbouring States.
4th: That the State of Pennsylvania herself has set the example of authorizing bridges to be constructed across this stream
no higher than this.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

653

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et al.

5th. That the report of certain, engineers of the United
States to Congress, in 1848, recommended a wire bridge, and
gave as their opinion, that "by an elevation of ninety feet
every imaginable danger of obstructing or endangering the navigation would be avoided." Also, that certain reports of committees in Congress recognized the necessity.of a bridge at
Wheeling, and recommended an appropriation, stating that a.
bridge can be 'erected that will not offer the slightest obstruction to the navigation.
6th. That the objections to the bridge are only to the insufficiency of headway for steamboats, and they aver 'that the
headway left is amply sufficient; that the highest usual rise of
the river Ohio does not exceed thirty-eight and a half feet, but
will not average thirty-five feet for spring floods, nor much exceed twenty-nine feet; that the flood of 1832 was an extraordinary flood, which rose forty-four and a half feet above low
water at Wheeling, on the 11th of February, 1832; that landings and warehouses were under water, and the river too high
for navigation, or, if navigated, that boats might have passed
over Zane's Island.
7th. That for all useful purposes the pipes of steamboats
need not exceed forty-seven feet above the water, and if the
draft should not be sufficient at that height, that blowers might
be added. That chimneys might have hinges on them, so that
they could be lowered without much inconvenience. That
the bridge over the canal at Louisville does not give a headway
of over fifty-six feet, and chimneys of greater height usually
have hinges to accommodate themselves to it, and steamboats
made with high chimneys and without hinges should conform,
"because the height of chimneys of steamboats above a certain
limit involves secondary considerations of contingent and relative expediency or convenience, rather than such as are of absolute importance or necessity in connection with the material or
indispensable purposes of navigation."
8th. That the bridge will not be an appreciable inconvenience to boats of the average class, whose height, they aver,
will not average over fifty-two feet, and not sixtyfive feet, as
stated in the bill ; but it is admitted that there are boats whose
chimneys are of greater height, which is asserted to be unnecessary; or, if necessary, they should be provided with
hinges; that these high chimneys have been but lately brought
into use, are of "extravagant and unnecessary" height, and
"got up" by commercial rivals, who promote these proceedings
"in the name of a sovereign State, to destroy a useful and necessary work."
55*

654

SUPREME

COURT.

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et al.

9th and lastly. That the bridge will not diminish or destroy
trade between Pittsburg and other ports, or do irreparable injury to the citizens of Pennsylvania.
Affidavits were also read to support the answer.
After argument by counsel, Mr. Justice Grier delivered an
opinion, which concluded ?s follows: "The application of the principles I have stated to the facts
of this case will result in refusing, without prejudice, an injunction before the sitting of the Supreme Court, for the following
reasons "11st. Because the question of the plaintiff's right to prosecute
this is new, and involves the jurisdictibin of the court. For if
the State of Pennsylvania is not entitled to prosecute such an
action, the Supreme Court can have no original jurisdiction in
the case.
112d. The injury threatened is-not imminent and certain, but
contingent. It may or may not happen before the final hearing
of this cause, or before this application may be renewed before
the court. In the mean while, this cause may be brought to a
final hearing, the cause being now at issue, and having preference on the list. And- on the first Monday of December next
the'plaintiff will have an opportunity of moving the court for
an injundtion on the bill and answer, when the question of
jurisdiction can be finally decided. Nor is there any evidence
to justify the supposition, that in the mean time the income of
the Pennsylvania improvements will be materially affected.
1 3d. The injury will not be irremediable if any should occur;
as the owner of every boat which may be, hindered or delayed
in the mean time from passing along the river by this obstruction will have a clear remedy at law, to recover damages
against the company and the individuals engaged in its erection.
114th. If the defendants proceed in the mean time to complete
the bridge, they will gain no equity thereby; but if judgment
le obtained against them, they will be compelled to abate the
nuisance at their own expense.
"It is therefore ordered, that said bill and supplemental bill,
answers, and exhibits here read, be filed in the'clerk's office
of the Supreme Court of the United States, and that the defendants answer the amendment and supplemental bill within
thirty days, and that on the first day of the next term of the
Supreme Court of the United States the complainant have
leave to move for an injunction, as prayed for in said original
and supplemental bills, and that this order and notice be entered by the clerk on the docket of said court."

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

655

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Go. et aL

Pursuant to this order, the bill , supplemental bill, and answers were filed in the office of the clerk of the Supreme Court,
at Washington, on the 6th of September, 1849.
On the 7th of October, 1849, the Wheeling and Belmont
Bridge Company filed their answer to the amended and supplemental bills, reiterating the grounds of defence assumed in the
first answer, and suggesting others which had not been previously noticed.
On the 12th of November, 1849, the plaintiff served on the
defendant a notice of her intention to apply to the Supreme
Court for an ijun.ction, as prayed for in the original and supplemental bills, on other grounds which were set forth in a second supplemental bill, a copy of which accompanied the notice.
This second supplemental bill averred that .the defendants had
erected their bridge over the channel of the Ohio in such a
manner as to hinder, and obstruct, and prevent the passage of
steamboats, owned and navigated by citizens of Pennsylvania,
to and from her ports, over and along said river, and from passing from Pittsburg to other ports in Ohio and Kentucky below
said bridge. It charges, that on the 10th day of November,
1849, the steamboat Messenger, owned and navigated by citizens
of Pennsylvania, engaged in the carrying trade between Pittsburg, a port of ep*ry in Pennsylvania, and Cincinnati, a port of
entry in Ohio, and intermediate ports, duly licensed, equipped,
and enrolled according to the acts of Congress, cleared from
the said port of Pittsburg with a large cargo of freight and pas-,
sengers for the port of Cincinnati and other intermediate ports,
and while on her voyage along the channel of said river, on the
night of the 10th of November, at a usual stage of water, to
wit, twenty-one feet, was hindered and obstruited from passing
along said channel, and obliged to stop by reason of said bridge,
and with great trouble and danger to the officers and crew, and.
expense and loss of time to her owners, was compelled to have
seven and a half feet of her chimneys cut off in order to pass
said bridge.
It is further alleged that the Hibernia, another boat ow-ed
and navigated by citizens of Pennsylvania, on a voyage from
Cincinnati to Pittsburg, on the 11th day of November, 1849,
was hindered by said bridge from prosecuting her voyage, and
obliged to stop at Wheeling, a port of entry in Virginia, afid
there discharge her passengers and cargo.
The bill further charges, that, since the filing of said original
bill, sundry citizens of Pennsylvania have contracted for, and
are engaged in, the construction of ships and sea-going vessels,
to be propelled by wind and steam, and desire to continue ia

SUPREME COURT.
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et al.

said business. That the building of such vessels is a profitable
branch of business, and that any obstruction to the navigation
of the Ohio River at high stages of water will interfere with
and destroy said branch of business, and prove alike detrimental
to the revenues of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and to
the interests of her citizens. It is further charged, that the
Wheeling Bridge will produce this result, and practically give
a preference to the port of Wheeling and other ports lower
down the river, to the great injury of the citizend and State of
Pennsylvania. The plaintiff, therefore, prays that the defendants may be enjoined from keeping said bridge across said river,
and'be required to abate the same.
aOn
the 2d, of February, 1850, the defendants filed their answer to the second supplemental bill.
It stated,' "that, since the filing of their former answers in this
case, the Legislature of the State of Virginia have passed an act
amendatory and explanatory of the various hcts which had been
previously passed by that body, (and which taken together constituted the charter under which your respondents erected their
.bridge,) and more particularly of the fourteenth section of the
act passed March 19, 1847. This amendatory and explanatory
act declares in substance, that, whereas the Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Company, by #irtue of an act passed March 19,
1847, entitled'An act to revive and amend an act, entitled an
act incorporating a company torerect a toll-bridge over the
Ohio River at Wheeling, passed February 10, 1836,' had
erected across and over-.the main channel of the Ohio River,
from the main Virginia shore to Zane's Island, at the city of
Wheeling, in Ohio Couutr, a wire suspension-bridge, consisting
of a single-span of one thousand and ten feet from centre to
centre of the supporting towers, the height'of which is ninety
feet at the eastern abutment, ninety-three and a half feet at the
highest point, and sixty-two feet at the western abutment,
above the low-water level; and whereas the fourteenth section
of the said act of March 19, 1847, provided, among other things,
that the said wire suspension-bridge should be so erected as noc
Ito obstruct the navigation of the Ohio River in the usual manner, by such steamboats and other crafts as were then commonly accustomed to navigate the same, when the river should
be. as high' as the highest floods therein heretofore known';
and whereas doubts had arisen as to the true construction or
meaning of the said fourteenth section; and it was desirable to
remove such doubts, and more clearly to express and declare
the true intention and meaning of the aforesaid secqtion, it was
by said adt declared and enacted, that the -said wire suspension-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

ft7

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et al.

bridge, so erected across ti±: Ohio River, at Wheeling, as af5resaid, at the height of ninety feet at the eastern, abutment,
ninety-three and a half feet at the highest point, and sixty-two
feet at the western abutment, above the low-water level of the
Ohio River, be, and the same thereby was, declared- to be of
lawful height, and in conformity with the intent and meaning
of the said fourteenth section of the act of March 19, 1847.
"A copy of which said act of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed January 11, 1850, and duly authenticated, is herewith exhibited, and prayed to be taken, received, and read,-as
a part of this answer.
"Your respondents further say, that said act above exhibited
furnishes a full and complete answer to all the.objections urged
by the complainant to your respondents' bridge, on the ground
that it has not been constructed in conformity with the requisitions of the charter of the company.
"Your respondents, therefore, rely on said act of Assembly
of Virginia for that and for all other purposes for which it may
legally avail, and pray that they may be allowred the benefit of
all defences arising under said act, in the same manner, and to
the same extent, as if specially pleaded.
"Having fully answered, your respondents pray to be hence
dismissed, with their costs by them in 'this behalf unjustly expended."
Numerous depositions were filed on behalf of the complailiant
and respondents, which it is not expedient further to refer to,
as the order of the court is merely interlocutory.
. The cause was opened by Mr. Darraghand Mr. Stanton,
for the complainant, and concluded upon the same side by A1f
W'alker. For tile respondents, it was argued by Mr. Stuart
and Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General). A report of the arguments of the counsel is deferred until the final decision of the
case.
Mr. Justice NELSON announced that the court had passed
the following interlocutory order.
The court having heard the counsel on the part of the complainant, and. also on the part of the respondents, on the motion
for an injunction in this cause to remove the obstruction of the
navigation of the Ohio River, as charged in the original, amended, and supplemental bills of the complainant, by means of the
erection of the suspension bridge in said bills mentioned, and
which said obstruction is denied in the answers put in thereto
by the respondents; and on due deliberatioh being had thereon,

658

SUPREME COURT.

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et aL

and upon the pleadings and the proofs before us, it is ordered,
that the cause be referred to the Honorable R. Hyde Walworth,
late Chancellor of. the State of New York, as a commissioner
of the court, hereby appointed, to take" such further proofs in
the cause as the counsel for the respective parties may see fit
to produce before him, at such time or times, and at such place
or places, as he may appoint, on the application of the counsel
of either party; due notice being given of the time and place
of the taking of the said proofs.
1. Upon the question, whether or not the bridge afoxesaid,
mentioned in the pleadings aforesaid, is or is not an obstruction
of the free navigation of the said Ohio River at the place where
it is erected across the same, by vessels propelled by steam or
sails, engaged, or which may be engaged, in the commerce or
navigation of said river; and if an obstruction,-as aforesaid,
shall be made to appear, what change or alteration in the construction and existing condition of the said bridge, if any, can
be made; consistent with the continuance of the same across
said river, that will remove the obstruction to the free navigation by the vessels aforesaid, engaged in the commerce and
navigation of said river as aforesaid; and,
2. That the said commissioner shall report to this court by
the -first day of the next stated term thereof, upon the questions
hereby referred to him, together with the proofs which shall
have been produced before him by the respective parties. And
that all other questions in the said cause shall be reserved until
the coming in of the said report of the commissioner, and the
further hearing of counsel upon the matters therein; and,
3. That the said commissioner shall have the power, if
deemed necessary by him in the course of the hearing of the
said cause, to appoint a competent engineer, whose duty it
shall be to take the measurement of said bridge, its appendages
and appurtenances and localities in connection therewith, under
the direction and instructions of -said commissioner, and to
make a report to him on the same, which report shall be annexed to the report of the said commissioner to this court.
The said commissioner is hereby authorized to appoint a
clerk to assist him in the execution of this commission.
The compensation to be allowed to the said commissioner for
his time and services, for his clerk and engineer that may be
appointed, and all other necessary expenses by him incurred in
said commission, upon the coming in of the report of the commissioner, will be ascertained and fixed and awarded against
the parties, as the court may deem right and prdper,.upon the
principles of equity and justice.

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

659

Pennsylvania v. Wheeling and Belmont Bridge Co. et al.

And that the parties shall each advance to the said commissioner two hundred and fifty dollars, before or at the time he
enters upon the execution of the commission.
The clerk will send a certified copy of this order to the commissioner.
To this order Mr. Justice DANIEL dissents. It is his
opinion, that the' case is not presented to this court between
such parties in interest as can give jurisdiction to this court.
The only legitimate ground of jurisdiction in this case,'under
the Constitution, would be the fact of such a direct interest or
right on the part of Pennsylvania as a State as would authorize
her to become a party in this controversy. The interest of
the State of Pennsylvania in this case, if indeed any such is
shown, is that which she may have in the competition which
may or which does exist between works of public improvement
'erected by herself, and rival works erected by other States
within their own territory. No direct interest on the part of
the State of Pennsylvania is shown in the vessels or steamboats
-vhich navigate the rivers Ohio and MissiQsippi, nor in any. question connected with the rights of thut State separate and apart
from the individual interests of the owners of steamboats, or
other private citizens of the State of Pennsylvania. Again, the
question of nuisance or no nuisance is one proper for the cog-.
nizance of a court -of law, to be determined by a jury upon the
testimony of witnesses confronted and cross-examined before a
jury in open court, and under its supervision. In this view of
the question, it would seem to be irregular to determine it
upon affidavits and by a court of equity, and without the interposition of a jury, and in the absence of the witnesses. The
order now made in this cause seeming to lead to the latter mode
of settling the question of nuisance, it is therefore hereby formally objected to.

