JANUARY TERM, 1850.

487

The United States v. Brown.

ord from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Western
District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this coupt, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

OsBAAni

B. BRowN, PLA NTIPF IN ERROR, v. THE UNITED STATES.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. OBADI.AH B. BRowN."
An act of Congress passed on the 2d of July, 1836 (5 Stat. at Large, 83), directs
that, where any money has been paid out of the funds of the Post-Office Depart.
ment to any person in consequence of fraudulent representations or by mistake,
collusion, or misconduct of any officer or clrk of the Department, the Postmaster- General shall institute azsnit to recover it back.
Where the person who was the chief clerk add treasurer o' the Post-Office Department transferred to the Department a deposit which io had made, in his own
name, in a bank which had become broken, and in consequence of such transfer
received the full value of the deposit from the Department, it was a easwewhich
fell within the statute; and the adjudication of the Postmaster-General, ordering
*he person to be credited upon the books and to receive the money, cannot be considered a final adjudication, closing the transaction from judicial scrutiny.
The rules and regulations of the Post-Office Department placed the whole subject of
finance under ihe charge of the chief clerk. It was within the range of his official
duties, therefore, to superintend all matters relating to finance, and he was not
entitled to charge a commission for negotiating loans for the use of the Department.

THESSE two cases were merely branches of a single case
which was tried in the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of
Washington.
The suit was instituted by the United States against Obadiah
B. Brown, upon an account, two items only of which were disputed. Upon one of these items the instruction of the court to
the jury was unfavorable to Brown, and he took a bill of exceptions to it. This constituted the first case. .Upon the second item, the instruction was- unfavorable to the United States,
and they excepted.
The account upon which the suit was brought was.as follows, viz. -

488

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Brown.

Obadiah B. Brown, late Treasurer Post-Office Department, in
Da.
account with the United States.
Ci.
1835.
Jan. 27. To cash,
Feb. 18. " cash,
" 19. "-cash,
April 10. "1 cash,

1845.
$ 2,500.00 Mar. 31. By amount of his bill, dated 14
802.59
February, 1835,No.460, paid
2,088.61
sundry persons for services
1,452.00
in Post-Office Department,
$ 802.59
June 26. By amount paid sundry persons
for services in Post-OfficeDepartment, as per bill on file, 1,452.00
Balance,
. .
.
4,588.61
$6,843.20

$6,843.20

To balance, $4,588.61

The two items in dispute were the charges of $ 2,500 and
$ 2,088.61. The first of these, viz. that of $ 2,500, is not the
first taken up in the bill of exceptions, or in the opinion of the
court. In both, the latter item of $ 2,088.61 is treated and disposed of in the first instance.
The whole of the facts in the case are set forth in the two
bills of -exceptions, which are recited in the opinion of the
court. It is therefore unnecessary to repeat them here.
The cause was argued in this court by the Attorney-General
(Mr. Johnson),for the United States, and by Mflr Bradley and
Mr. Coxe, for Mr. Brown.
Mr. Johnson referred to the Post-Office Act of 3d March,
1825 (4 Stat. at Large, 102), and made the following points.
1. That the fact being known to Mr. Barry, the PostmasterGeneral, that the Bank of Maryland had failed, and that the
Union Bank held the certificates given to the former by the
Post-Office Department, and that the certificate to Brown given
by the Bank of Maryland was for his private account, he had
no lawful authority to assume and pay the same to Brown.
2. That if he had, in the absence of all improper intent,
there was evidence from which the jury might infer mistake of
fact, collusion, or misconduct in the Postmaster-General in
making such payment.
3. That there was no evidence from which the jury could
infer that -there was any agreement to allow the defendant the
commissions clairned by him, or from which it could be allowed. Gratiot v. The United States, 4 How. 110.
The counsel for Mr. Brown contended that, with respect to
the item of S 2,088.61, the charge of the Circuit Court was
correct, and fell within the ruling of this court in the case of

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

489

The United States v. Brown.

The United States v. The Bank of the Metropolis, 15 Peters,
377, 400, 401; and with respect to the item of $2,500, they
contended, 1. The services rendered by Mr. Brown, and for which he
claimed this compensation, were not such as were ordinarily
attached to the duties of the office held by him.
2. They were rendered at the instance of the government,
and he was obliged, under the circumstances, to perform the
labor, and assume the responsibility necessary to execute that
service.
3. He was entitled to an equitable allowance for such extra
service, to be graduated by the amount paid for like services
under similar circumstances.
4. The Department had paid for like services, under similar
circumstances, more than was demanded by him.
And to sustain these propositions they relied on The United
States v.Macdaniel, 7 Peters, 1 ; The United States v. Ripley, 7
Peters, 25, 26; The United States v. Fillebrown, 7 Peters, 44.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought before us upon writs of error to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia,
holden for the County of Washington.
The facts of this case, and the questions of law arising therefrom, will appear in the following statement of the proceedings
in the Circuit Court.
In the year 1839 the United States instituted an action on
the case against the defendant in error, to recover of him the
sum of .$ 4,588.61, in obedience to the directions of the seventeenth section of the act of Congress of July 2, 1836 (5 Statutes at Large, 83), which declares, "That in all cases where
any sum or sums of money have been paid out of the funds of
the Post-Office Department to any individual or individuals
under pretence that service has been performed therefor, when
in fact such service has not been performed, or by way of additional allowance for increased service actually rendered when
the additional allowance exceeds the sum which, by the provisions of the law, might rightfully have been allowed therefor,
and in all other cases where moneys of the department have
been paid over to any person in consequence of fraudulent representations, or by mistake, collusion, or misconduct of any
officer or clerk of the Department, it shall be the duty of the
VPostmaster-General to cause suit to be brought in the name of
the United States of America to recover back the same, or the
excess, as the case may be, with interest thereon."

490

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Brown.

The declaration counted upon an insimul computassent,
upon money paid, upon money lent and advanced, and upon
money had and received. The account exhibiting the claim
of the United States consisted of four items, and is in the following form.
"Obadiah B., Brown, late Treasurer Post-Office Department, in
Di.

account with the United States.

1835.
Jan. 27. To cash,
Feb. 18. " cash,
" 19. " cash,
April 10. " cash,

CF.

1845.
$ 2,500.00 Mar. 31. By amount of his bill, dated 14
802.59
February, 1835, No. 460, paid
2,088.61
sundry persons for services
1,452.00
in Post-Office Department,
$802.59
June 26. By amount paid sundry persons
for services in Pst-Office Department, as p& bill on file,
1,452.00
Balance, .
.
.
. 4,588.61
$ 6,8.20

$6,843.20

To balance,$4,588.61

"I certify that the foregoing is a true statement of the account of Obadiah B. Brown, late treasurer of the Post-Office
Department, as audited and adjusted at. this office.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name,
and caused to be affixed my seal of office, at Washington, this
2d day of July, in the year 1839.
"C. K. G.&AINER,

Auditor of the 'Treasuryfor Post-Office Department."
The second and fourth items of this account -were extinguished by credits equal to their amount; the first and third
items were alone contended for by the United States. The
jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs for the first item, and rejected the third, under the instruction of the Circuit Court.
At the trial, bills qf exception to the rulings of the court
were sealed, at the instance of both the plaintiffs and the defendant, and a writ of error is prosecuted by either party in this
court.
The proofs set forth in the bills of exception, and the rulings
of the Circuit Court upon the prayers appended to those bills,
are made a part of this statement, so far as is necessary to present the questions brought up for review.
"The plaintiffs, to sustain the issues joined on their part, and
to establish their right to recover the third item in the account, of
$ 2,088.61, gave evidence by competent testimony, that, on the
3d of May, 1833, the defendant made a private deposit of his
own funds in the Batik ofMaryland, of-the sum-of $2,000,

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

491

The United States v. Brown.

bearing interest at the rate of five per. centum per annum, and
received a.certificate therefor. That the defendant was at the
time of said deposit, and continued until the 1st of February,
1835, to be, the chief clerk and treasurer of the Post-Office
Department., That on the 5th of June, 1833, the Post-Office
Department borrowed of the Bank of Maryland $ 50,000, payable at nine and twelve months, and gave to the said bank two
certificates of $ 25,000 each, in acknowledgment of this loan.
These certificates were signed by the defendant, as treasurer of
the Department. That on the 22d of June, 1833, the Bank of
Maryland borrowed of the Union Bank of Maryland $ 50,000,
and deposited said loan certificates as collateral security, therefor.
1CThat on the 22d of March, 1834, the.Bank of Maryland
failed, and the Post-Office Department, shortly after, knew of
that fact. That on the 22d of March, 1834, the Bank of Maryland made a general assignment to John B. Morris and Richard
W. Gill, as trustees for the benefit of its creditors. And that
both the Post-Office Department and defendant were notified
of said assignment to the Union Bank of the post-office certificates, as early as the 8th of April, 1834.
"That immediately on" the announcement of the failure of
the Bank of Maryland, its certificates of dgposit depreciated in
value to the amount of eighty per cent., and continued gradually to depreciate until some three or four years after, when
they had fallen as low as twenty-five per cent. That on or
about the 9th of September, 1834, N. Williams, Esq., the District Attorney of the United States, and acting as such, procured to be made on said certificate of deposit given to said
defendant the indorsement thereon signed by J. B. Morris and
R. W. Gili.
'Mr. Wilson, Cashier:
"1
'Release the within certificate, with interest up to 22d of
March, on deposit to be checked for.
J. B. MoRRis,
R. W. GmL, Trustees.
"'3d September, 1834.'
-

"And said certificate, wittL the indorsement of the defendant
Brown, and of said Morris and Gill, was then by him presented
to the Bank of Maryland by said Williams, acting as aforesaid,
and the said certificate was then and by it cancelled- and a
-credit given for the amount, with the interest up to 22d March,
1834, to the Post-Office Departmeat, being the amount of two

492

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Brown.

thousand and eighty-eight dollars sixty-one cents: this credit
was given on the 9th of September, 1834, and in a day or two
after, on the receipt of the account showing said credit, corresponding entries were made on the books of the Department,
charging said bank, in general account, with said sum of two
thousand and eighty-eight dollars sixty-one cents, and crediting 0. B. Brown, Treasurer, &c., with the like sum." That
early in February, 1835, the defendant retired from'his office
in the Post-Office Department, and afterwards, on the 19th of
February, 1835, the Postmaster-General caused a requisition to
be made out in favor of the defendant for the sum of $ 2,088.61;
and upon this requisition a corresponding check was drawn,
payable to his order, for the like amount, which, being indorsed
by him, was duly paid, which sum so paid is that now sought
to be recovered. That on or abotit the 5th of December, 1836,
an arrangement was made between the said Union Bank and
the then Postmaster-General, under which the defendant was
recharged with the sum of $2,088.61, and the Union Bank
thereupon gave the bond of indemnity in the following words.
"' Know all men by these presents, that we, the President
and Directors of the Union Bank of Maryland, and Robert
Mickle, of the State of Maryland, are held and firmly bound
unto the United States in the full and just sum of four thousand dollars, current money of the .United States, to be paid to
the said United States; to which payment, well and truly to
be made, .we bind ourselves and each of us, firmly and severally, by these presents. Sealed with our seals, and dated this
5th day of December, in the year 1836.
"' Whereas, Amos Kendall, Postmaster-General of the United
States, hath allowed and paid to the President and Directors
of the Union Bank of Maryland the sum of two thousand and
eighty-eight 61 dollars, claimed to be due to the said bank
from the Post-Office Department, which claim was disallowed
by William T. Barry, former Postmaster-General of the United
States, and the amount so claimed by the said -bank was paid
to a certain 0. B. Brown by the said Barry, on the ground that
a debt due to the said Brown from the Bank of Maryland could
be legally set off against the claim of said Union Bank; and
the said Amos Kendall, as Postmaster-General ac aforesaid,
having allowed and paid the claim of said Union Bank, and recharged the said 0. B. Brown with the amount so received by
him, is about to sue the said 0. B. Brown for the same, in
which suit the validity of said set-off may be brought in question.

JANUARY

498

TERM, 1850.

The United States v. Brown.

"'Now, the condition of the above.obligation is such, that,
if the validity of said set-off should in the said suit be sustained
by a judicial decision, and the Said Union Bank shall thereupon, on demand, fail to repay the said sum of two thoulsand
and eighty-eight 78A dollars, with legal interest thereon from
the time they received the same, the above obligation to be in
full force; otherwise to be void..

C't H. W. EVANS,

[SEAL.]

Presidentof the Union Bank of Maryland.
R. MICKLE,

[sEAL.]

"'Signed, sealed, and delivered in presence of
CH. A. WLLAMSON.'
"Whereupon the plaintiffs closed their testimony; and the
defendant prayed the court to instruct the jury that, on the evidence aforesaid, if believed by the jury, the plaintiffs are not
entitled to recover the said item of $ 2,088.61.
"And the court, being of the opinion that, by the evidence
aforesaid, it appeared that the former Postmaster-General (Barry)
had, within the scope of his official authority, and with full possession of the facts involved in the case, adjudicated the question of the right of the defendant to receive the said item of
$ 2,088.61, and, under the said adjudication, the same had been
paid to the defendant, and that this court has no authority to
review and reverse the said adjudication for errors of law therein, and that, from the evidence aforesaid, the jury-cannot infer
mistake ,of fact, collusion, or misconduct of the said PostmasterGeneral, gave the instruction as prayed, to which instruction, aa
given, the plaintiffs excepted.
"The defendant having admitted the receipt by him bf the
sum of $ 2,500, as charged in plaintiffs' account, offered and
read in evidence an account presented by him to the Department, claiming sundry allowances as for commission for the
disbursement of sundry sums made by him from the contingent
fund of the Post-Office Department, and for the like commissions on the sum of $ 190,000, being the amount of sundry
loans negotiated by him, at the request of the Postmaster-General, for the use of said Department, as charged and claimed in
said account, and then gave evidence' tending to prove, by
credible and competent witnesses, that he, the said defendant,
while chief clerk of the Post-Office Department, was employed
by the said Postmaster-General to negotiate-said loans; that he
faithfully performed that duty, and did negotiate the several
loans for the suims with the parties, and at the times mentioned
in the items of charge in his account. He further gave testiVOL. IX.

42

SUPREME COURT.
The United Stateg v. Brown.

mony tending to show that no loans were ever made and negotiated by or for the use of the Department, except during the
period when Major Barry held the office of Postmaster-General,
and that no other officer or clerk attached to the General PostOffice had ever been employed in the negotiation of any loans
for the use of said Department; that during the same period of
time another person, viz. Samuel L. Governeur, then postrmaster at New York, was, inlike manner, employed to negotiate
similar loans for the use of said Department, as a srecial agent;
that loans were thus negotiated by said Governeur, as such
special agent, sometimes at a very high premium, on one occacasion paying for the same at the. rate of three per cent. per
month, besides 'collateral advantages to the lender; that for the
loans thus negotiated by said Governeur he claimed and was
allowed five per cent. commission when he lent his own personal responsibility, and two and a half per cent. when he incurred no responsibility; and these commissions were allowed
and credited him by the Department in the settlement of his
accounts ; that the defendant, in the negotiations intrusted to
him, went personally to Baltimore and Philadelphia, where the
same were conducted and effected, and that he has never received any remuneration for his services, or for his expenses in
attendingto said business.
"The defendant further gave parol evidence, tending to
show that no negotiations of loans, other than those made by
the defendant, were ever made by the Post-Office Department,
or by the Department's chief clerk, and such duties had never,
before or since, been performed by any other chief clerk or treasurer, and that if any other person had been employed to perform
said business, not connected with the Department, such person
-would have claimed and received a compensation of two and
a half per cent. commission on the amount so borrowed.
"And thereupon, the plaintiffs offered further evidence to
prove that, during all the time aforesaid in which the loans
aforesaid were negotiated by the defendant, he was chief clerk
and treasurer of the Post-Office Department, and as such received a stated salary fixed by law, and, as treasurer, had charge
of the financial duties of the Department; that the general outline of his duties is stated in the published rules and regulations of March 4, 1833, issued by the Postmaster-General, but
there were other minor duties for which there were verbal directions; that the disbursements of the contingent expenses of
the Department, and the settlement of accounts therefor at the
Treasury, down to the year 1815, had been by the Postmaster-General, and since that year by officers of the Depart-

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

495

The United Stated v. Brown.
ment assigned to that duty in additiQn to their other duties;
that the defendant was disbursing agent from 1829 to some time
in February, 1835, and as such settled quarterly accounts of his
agency at the Treasury; that no allowance had ever been made
for such services b~yond the stated salaries of the officers, and
none had been asked for by any officer except by the defenidant, long after he had settled his accounts, and had retired from
office ; that before, and during, and ever since the years 1833
and 1834, in which said loans were negotiated by defendant,
it was the frequent usage of the Department for the PostmasterGeneral to send its officers to points of the country distant
from the office, on special business connected with their respective branches of the Iervice, and they had never claimed or
been allowed any compensation therefor, except their actual
expenses, in addition to their stated salaries, which continued
to run on during their absence, and that no distinction was
known or recognized in this respect between the financial and
other divisions of the department ; that during his treasurership
the defendant had made no claim for commissions on the loans
aforesaid made by him; that his predecessor in charge of the
financial department was the First Assistant Postmaster-Generalf
w ho held the office during several years, down to March, 1843,
and during that time, by direction of the Postmaster-General,
negotiated with distant banks for permission to make two overdrafts, of $ 50,000 each, for which interest was to be allowed,
and which were to be repaid by deposits of the revenues of the
Department, as collected; that he rendered these services, as
essential portions of his duties, under charge of the financial
division of the Department, and never expected to r6ceive any
compensation therefor beyond his regular salary i that no other
loans are known to have been negotiated by the Department,
nor are commissions known to h~ave been allowed to Officers of
the Department for any special services rendered by' them for
the Department ; and further offered evidence to prove, that in
the Treasury Department the contingent expenses and salaries
of officers, amounting to the monthly sum of $ 70,000, were
always disbursed by officers of the Treasury assigned to the
duty, in addition to their ordinary duties, without any charge
or claim of extra compensation ; and that officers of this D&partment were sent on missions to New York bonnected with
public loans, and were never allowed any compensation beyond
their expenses.
"And the defendant further gave evidence tending to prove,
that the arrangement made for the overdrawing of the $ 50,000,
made by the First Assistant Postmaster-General, was performed

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Brown.

through the instrumentality of an agent in New York, acting
under instructions from said assistant; that it was not regarded
as a loan, but as an agreement, upon the promise of regular deposits, sometimes leaving large balances in favor~of the government to meet and pay the drafts of the Department, in case no
iands belonging to it were at the tiffie in deposit, to the extent
of $ 50,000; that the defendant had made similar arrangements
for the Department with other banks, at different times, to the
amount of $ 500,000, and had never claimed compensation- for
this as an extra service, or received any such compensation
therefor.
" Upon the whole of the evidence, so given by the parties
respectively, the counsel for the United States prayed the court
on the whole of
to instruct the jury as follows, viz. -That
said evidence, if believed by the jury, the plaintiffs are entitled
to recover the said sum of $2,500, and that defendant is not
entitled to set off against that item any value of his services in
negotiating said loans, or for the disbursement of the contingent fund, as claimed by him in his said account. To the
giving of which instruction, the defendant, by his counsel, objected, but the court overruled the objection, and gave the instruction as prayed ; to which ruling of the court the defendant
excepted.'
The inquiries arising upon this record involve, to some extent, an examination of the powers and duties of the Postmaster-General in the administration of his office, and embrace also
a construction of the seventeenth section of the statute of June
2, 1835, with respect to the directions to the Postmaster-General to prosecute for any of the delinquencies or misfeasances
enumerated in that section; they imply, moreover, an examination on the part of this court as to how far the acts of the
defendant below, as characterized by the proofs on the record,
fall within either category of a payment out of the funds of the
Post-Office Department under pretence of services which have
not been performed,- or of an allowance for services actually
performed, exceeding the compensation permitted by law, - or
of money paid over to a person in consequence of fraudulent
by mistake, or collusion, or mis6onduct
representations, -or
of any officer or clerk of the Department.
Without undertaking, in the solution of these inquiries, to
define with 'perfect exactness the powefs of the PostmasterGeneral, or to deny or affirm any implied general power in that
officer to make loans on the credit or responsibility of the government, we think it may be safely assumed that such a power,
if vested in that officer, must be limited to acts inseparable

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

497

The United States v. Brown.

from the exigencies of the Department over which he presides;
acts necessarily incident to its regular, legitimate operations.
It never can be extended to a right in the Postmaster-General,
at his discretion, to contract loans, or to borrow money upoL
mere calculations of contingent or speculative advantage to the
Department; much less carl it embrace theright in this officer
to deal ad libitum in stocks, or bonds, or evidences of debt, or
in certificates of deposit, either with corporations or individuals,
when these subjects of traffic can in no wise be connected with
the necessary or beneficial operations of the Department, nor
can, indeed, be in any sense connected with' that Department,
except to render the latter a guarantee for the profit of others,
with whom such transactions may take place.
Under the principles here assumed, and which are deemed
by this court to be undeniable, let us look more nearly a" this
paytinent of $ 2,088.61, made by order of the Postmaster-General, to the defendant, and at the circumstances under which
it was made, in order to ascertain how far such payment, and
the retention of the amount by the defendant, are warranted
by these principles. It should here be borne in mind, that for
some time previously, and to a period of nearly eleven months
after the failure of the Bank of Maryland, the defendant was
not only the chief clerk, but the treasurer, of the Post-Office
Department. He was, therefore, necessarily acquainted, not
only with the internal details of the Department, and clothed
with the control of its pecuniary operations, but was also acquainted with the condition and character of those from whom
loans to the Department were obtained ; indeed, he assumes
much credit to himself for this knowledge, and his acts based
upon it, and makes them in part the foundation of his claim for
commissions on the moneys he had negotiated. But in addition to this implication, it is stated in the proofs that the
Post-Office Department was informed, in March, 1834, of the
failure of the Bank of Maryland-; and that as early as the 8th
of April following, both the Department and the defendant
were notified of the assignment to the Union Bank of the PostOffice certificates for $ 50,000. However possible it may be,
that the head of the Department remained individually ignorant of the several occurrences above mentioned, they warrant
a fair, nay, a necessary, legal conclusion to affect him with
every consequence deducible from facts which it was within
the range of his duty to know. But -whatever suppositions
may be indulged with respect to the head of the Department,
they cannot avert from the defendant the consequences of acts
notoriously, designedly, and personally performed by himself.
42 *

498

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Brown.

Thus situated,- under these striking facts and circumstances,
still the chief clerk and treasurer of the" Department,
with full knowledge of the failure of the Bank of Maryland,
and of the transfer to the Union Bank of the certificates of debt
for $ 50,000, the defendant himself withdraws his depreciated
certificate of deposit from the insolvent Bank of Maryland, and
on the .9th day of September, 1834, more than five. months
after the failure of that bank, transfers it, with the interest.
which had accrued thereen, to the Post-Office Department at
par. It is true he does not sign the order for the payment to
himself, for he had a few days previously withdrawn from his
situation in. the Department, but he obtained from the Postmaster-General a requisition on the acting treasurer of the Department for payment, and obtained on the 19th of February,
1835, a check fom that acting treasurer for the amount of his
depreciated certificate, with the interest thereon, at par, and
received payment at that rate. Upon considering the position
laid down by the Circuit Court, that this transaction was within
the scope of the official authority of the Postmaster-General,
we are irresistibly led to inquire, What could have been it3,object ? Courd this possibly have been to improve the credit or
to facilitate the operations of the Department? If so, how
could either of these ends be promoted by wasting the money
of the government, that it might become the holder of a claim
upon a notoriously insolvent cqrporation ? Could the object
have been to possess a set-off against the claims held by the
Union Bank? If so, then surely the defendant should have
been allowed nothing beyond the value of the certificate procured from him, and that Was literally nothing. If we could
impute to the head of the Department the design to favor a
subaltern in offise, this too would be equally irregular and inadmissible with either of the solutions above suggested. In no
view of this transaction have we been able to regard it as falling within the scope of the Postmaster-General's authority. On
the contrary, it has appeared to us as illegal and irregular, and,
so far as the head of the Department was concerned, as perhaps
flowing either from want of information, or from the absence
of vigilant personal supervision of the details of office, and of
the conduct of inferior agents. But whatever may be the true
explanation of the course of the Postmaster-General, that explanation can have no bearing in justification of the conduct
of the defendant, or in support of his pretension to withhold
from the government the amount paid for his certificate. As
the immediate actor throughout this transaction, giving it form
and direction in all its progress, he could not but know the
-being

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

499

The United States v. Brown.

right in which he held the certificate of deposit in the Bank of
Maryland. He could not but know the failure of that bank,
and the consequent worthlessness of the certificate held by.
him, and the injustice and fraud of the contrivance by which
he palmed that certificate upon the government, and obtained
thereby the amount of it at'par. In this view of the transaction, we consider the payment to the defendant of the sum of
$ 2,088.61, by direction of the Postmaster-General, as illegal
and void, and the case of the defendant as coming regularly
within the meaning of the provision, which is mandatory in directing proceedings like the present for the recovery of moneys
of the Department that have" been paid over to any person in
consequence of fraudulent representations, or by mistake or
misconduct of any officer or clerk of the Department, and therefore as rendering the defendant liable to refund the amount so
paid to him, with interest thereon.
In the decision of the Circuit Court upon the prayer to the
second bill of exceptions, sealed at the instance of the defendant below, this court can perceive no error. Upon adverting
to the printed rules and regulations for the government of the
Post-Office Department adopted on the 4th of March, 1833, and
referred to in the defendant's exception, we find in the eighth
rule the following provision: -"
The third division will be
that of finance, under the superintendence of the chief clerk,
Obadiah B. Brown, who shall be treasurer of the Department.
There shall be under his control the book-keeper's, the solicitor's office, and the pay office."
The language of this rule, if standing singly, must be understood as -fficiently comprehensive to embrace every thing relating to finance, -to the fiscal concerns of the Department;
and it must be perceived, too, that all the functions and duties
comprehended within this rule are attached to the office of chief
clerk. It is as chief clerk, and by virtue of his office of chief
clerk, that the entire subject of finande and financial administration is devolved on him.. The only singularity marking
this arrangement is the fact of its associating the powers and
duties created by,it peculiarly with this defendant individually,
by declaring that the division of finahce shall be under the superintendence of the chief clerk, 0. B. Brown.
But beyond this general provision, contained in rule eighth
of the Post-Office regulations, it will be found on examination
that the whole of the remaining rules, extending to number
twenty-four, are made up of a detail of duties to be performed
with. respect to receipts, deposits of money, payments and disbursements, by this treasurer, so constituted in virtue of his

500

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Brown.

oice of chief clerk; for which last office he received a stated
salary. By what course of reasoning, then, it could be shown
that the peculiar or appropriate duties of this officer were not
his duties, but were performed by him in lieu of some other
agent, and became, therefore; the foundation for extra compensation, this court are unable to comprehenld. Some instances
ot extra compensation allowed at the Department have been adduced in support of the claim of the defendant to commissions
in this case, and several authorities have been cited from this
court, which are supposed to tend to its establishment. With
respect to the former, this court cannot consider them as entitled to the smallest weight; we feel bound to regard them as
wholly irregular, and as examples rather to be censured and
shunned, than as precedents to be approved and followed. Between the cases of The United States v. Ripey, of The United
States v. Macdaniel, of the same v. Fillebrown, relied on for the
defendant, and that now before us, we can discern an obvious
distinction. Without undertaking here to discuss the force of
those decisions as autb-."ity upon this question, we may safely
say that they were comnmended to the judgment of this court
by the conviction that they were founded on services which
appertained not to the regular official stations and duties of the
claimants, -services,
too, actually performeal and untinged
by any hue or shade of contrivance or mala fides, and really
beneficial in their claracter to those for whom they were performed. We deem it unnecessary further particularly to contrast those claims with that of the defendant in the case before
us. But whatever may have been understood to be decided, or
whatever may in truth have been decided, by the cases above
mentioned, the principles established by this court in the decisions of Gratiot v. The United States, 4 Howard, 80, and of
The United States v. Buchanan, decided, during the present
term of this court, we consider as- furnishing the true rule
as to allowances for extra services ; by that rule, we conceive
that the pretension of the defendant to commissions on loans, as
set forth in the proceedings in this case, must be utterly condemned. This court, therefore, approving of so much of the
decision of the Circuit Court as disallowed those commissions,
do hereby adjudge that the writ of error of the defendant below
to this decision be dismissed; and disapproving as erroneous so
much of the judgment of the Circuit Court as authorizes the
said defendant to claim against the United States the amount
of the certificate of deposit from the Bank of Maryland transferred by him to the Post-Office Department, we hereby adjudge and order, that this judgment be reversed, and that this

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

501

The United States v. Roberts et al.

cause be remanded to the Circuit Court, to be proceeded in conformably with the principles herein above declared.
Order.
This cause came qn to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is
now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
award a venirefacias de novo, and for such further proceedings
to be had therein as may be in conformity to the opinion of
this court, and as to law and justice may appertain.

TnE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN S. RO1ERTS
AND JAMES F. REED, SURVIVORS OF JAmES ADAMS.
By the ninth section of the act of Congress passed in 1836 (5 Stat. at Large, 81), it
was enacted that the Postmaster-General was authorized to give instructions to
postmasters for accounting and disbursing the public 'money.
In 188, the Postmaster-General gave instructions to all postmasters, that, where
they paid money to contractors for carrying the mail, duplicate receipts were to be
taken in the form presciibed, one of which the postmaster was to keep, and the
other was directed to be sent by the next mail to the Auditor for the Post-Office
Department.
Where a payment was made to a contractor by the surety of a postmaster in his behalf, and ncj duplicate receipt forwarded to the Post-Office Department, nor any
information thereof given to the Department until after a final settlement of the
accounts of the contractor had been made, in which settlement the contractor was
not charged with the amount of such payment, it was error in the Circuit Court to
instruct the jury that they might allow a credit for it to the surety when sued upon
his bond, provided they believed from the testimony that the contractor had not
received more money than he was entitled to.
Bythat
an act
passed
on the 3d
of MYlarch, 1825 (4 Stat. at Large, 112), Congress declared
if any
postmaster
shall
neglect to render his account for one month after the
time, and in the form avd manner, prescribed by law, and by the Postmaster-Generals instructions conformable therewith, he shall forfeit double the value of the
postages which shall have arisen at the same office in any equal portion of time,
previous or subsequent thereto; or in case no account shah have been rendered at
the time of the trial of such case, then such sum as the court and jury shall estimate as equivalent thereto.
Where, at the time of the trial of a suit by the United States against a postmaster
and his surety, there was no return for an entire quarter and a fraction of the ensuing quarter, the proper mode of computing damages was to go back to a quarter
for which there was a return, calculate from it the amount due for the deficient
quarter and deficient fraction taken together, and then double the sum arrived at
by this calculation.
The fraction is included, because the obligation to make a return is as binding upon

