580

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. Ely.

tion, which, after argument, was overruled, and the cause set
down for trial on the plea of not guilty.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs, and assessed the
damages at $,362.50, for which sum judgment was rendered,
besides costs.
Several exceptions were taken by the counsel for the defendant to the ruling of the court at the trial, which are found in
the record, and on which he relies for a reversal of the judgment on this writ of error.
We have already held, in the case of Forsyth v. The United
States, just decided, that a writ of error lies to the judgments
in the peculiar class of cases described and provided for in the
eighth section of the act of Congress passed 22d February,
1847, already referred to, without reference to the amount in
controversy, and, as this case falls within that class, it follows
that the court has jurisdiction to revise the judgment, and that
the motion to dismiss rIust be de'nied.
The case not having been submitted by the counsel for a
decision on the merits, as in the criminal cases just disposed of,
it will remain on the docket for a hearing in its order.

JOHN BALDWIN, APPELLANT, V. CHARLES ELY.
Certificates were issued by the Treasury Department, under a treaty with Mlexico,
which were payable to a claimant or his assigns upon presentation at the Department.
These certificates being legally assignable under an act of Congress, an indorsement
in blank by the original payee was always considered sufficient evidence of title
in the holder to enable him to receive the amount of the certificate when presented
to the Treasury Department for payment.
The possession of them with a blank indorsement is primdfacie evidence of ownership.
Where a complainant in chancery alleged that they had been purloined fiom him,
and the defendant alleged that he had received them from a third person in the
regular course of business, the claim of the complainant, who furnished no proof
that they had been purloined, to have them restored to him unconditionally, could
not be maintained.
The bill was one of discovery, and the defendant, in his answer, alleged that he had
received them from the third person as security for money loaned.
Th( complainant was entitled to have them restored to him upon his refunding to
the holder the amount of the loan for which they had been deposited as security.
It was error, therefore, in the court below to dismiss his bill.
But as the complainant did not offer to redeem the certificates, but insisted upon
their unconditional restortion, the defendant below is entitled to costs in the Circuit Court. But the plaintiff below, who was the appellant here, is entitled to his
costs. in this court.

Tais was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, in and for the County of
Washington, sitting as a couit of equity.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

581

Baldwin v. Ely.

The facts were these.
The matters in controversy arose out of three certificates,
No. 989, No. 990, No. 991, for $ 1,000 each, bearing interest
at the rate of eight per cent. per year, issued from the Department of the Treasury of the United .States to the appellant, in
pursuance of the convention of 11th April, 1839, between the
United States and the Mexican republic, and two acts of the
Congress of the United States to carry into effect that convention, passed June 12, 1840. and September 1, 1841.
Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 of that convention (8 Stat. at
Large, pp. 526 to 533) provided for a commission to hear-and
determine the claims of the citizens of the United States ,lpon
the Mexican government.
By article sixth it was agreed that, if it should not be convenient for the Mexican government to pay at once in money
the amount found due by the board of commissioners, it should
be at liberty to pay in treasury notes, to bear interest at the
rate of eight per cent. per annum from the date of the award,
receivable at the maritime custom-houses of the repiiblic.
By the seventh section of the act of June 12, 1840 (5 Stat.
at Large, p. 383), the Secretary of the Treasury was required to
issue certificates "showing the amount or proportion of compensation to which each person, in whose favor award shall
have been made by said commissioners or umpire, may be entitled as against the Mexican government, on account of the
claims provided for by said convention."
By sections eighth, ninth, and tenth, the Secretary of the
Treasury was required, if the Mexican government should pay
any moneys towards satisfying the said awards, to distribute
the same ratably among the claimants; or, if the Mexican government should see fit to issue treasury notes, then to cause the
same to be delivered "to the persons who shall be respectively
entitlpd thereto in virtue of the awards, and the certificates issued, first deducting such sums of money, if any, as may be
due the United States from persons in whose favor awards shall
have been made under said convention."
By the act of 1st September, 1841 (5 Stat. at Large, p.
452), the Secretary of the Treasury was required to issue certificates to the persons authorized to receive the sums awarded,
"their legal representatives and assigns," in the manner directed by the seventh section of the act of Congress of June 12,
1840, for such portions of, the sums awarded as may be convenient for the claimants, and to be subject to the deductions
provided for by the tenth section of said act; "provided, that
be construed to give any rights to the
nothing in this act shall
49 *

582

SUPRE IE

COURT.

Baldwin v. Ely.
claimants that are not conferred by said convention, and the
act of June 12, 1840 ; and that the substance of this proviso be
inserted in the certificates that may be issued."
The appellant, John Baldwin, obtained two awards from said
commission for large sums of money, the one award bearing
date 18th December, 1841, the other, 25th February, 1842;
and therefor obtained various certificates from the Treasury Department for $ 1,000 each, bearing interest at the rate
of eight per cent. per year from the respective dates of said
awards, whereof the aforesaid certificates, No. 989, No. 990,
and No. 991, are parts and parcels.
Subsequent to the date of these certificates, another convention was signed at-the city of Mexico, on the 30th of January,
1843, and' finally ratified on the 29th of March, and promulgated on the 30th of March, 1843 (8 Stat. at Large, p. 578),
by which it was agreed, that the Mexican government should
pay, on the 30th of April, 1843, all the interest which should
be then due on the awards in favor of claimants; and that the
principal, and the interest thereof accruing thereon, should be
paid "in five years, in equal instalments every three months,"
the said-term of five years to commence on the 30th of April,
1843; the payments to be made in the city of Mexico, in gold
or silver, to such person as the United States should authorize
to receive them.
Such were the effects, conditions, and obligations arising
against the United States out of the afore-mentioned certificates.
In March, 1844, the appellant exhibited his bill in equity
against the appellee, stating in substance, that, being the lawful
proprietor of said three certificates, No. 989, No. 990, and No.
991, to him issued in pursuance of the awards in his favor, he
wrote his name on the back thereof, "without any words of
transfer or assignment, and still continued to hold the same as
the lawful owner thereof; and that, while the same were thus
held by him, the said three certificates, No. 989, No. 990, and
No. 991, each for the sim of $ 1,000, were either casually lost
by him, or, as he *erily believes, clandestinely stolen from his
rightful possession."
That upon the discbvery of said abduction, the complainant
immediately gave notice to the Treasury Department, by letter
of 12th February, 1843, with a request that payment of those
certificates might be stopped.
That the complainant was unable to find where those certificates were, until, by letter of the 29th of January, 1844, from
the Secretary of the Treasury, he was notified they were held

JANUARY

TERM, 1850.

583

Baldwin v. Ely.

and claimed by the defendant, and had been presented at the
Treasury Department in the defendant's name. He sought a
discovery of Ely's right to them, and prayed that Ely should
be required to prove how the said certificates were procured
from the complainant, and for what consideration, and when
and where; that he be decreed to deliver up the same, and to
desist from all demand of payment on account of the same, or
to assign or transfer them to any other person or party ; for an
injunction to restrain him for demanding payment of them until
the further order of the court, and for such other and further
relief in the premises as might be agreeable to equity and good
conscience.
The injunction was granted. Ely answered. He admits
that the said certificates were issued and made payable to complainant or his assigns, and were his sole and exclusive property. He states, that in the month of April, 1842, one Perry G.
Gardiner, of the city of New York, applied to him for a loan
of money, and offered as security three certificates of the Mexican indemnity, similar to those referred to in the bill, issued to
complainant, and indorsed by him ; but he does not recollect
the numbers ; and upon these certificates he advanced to Gardiner at different times various sums of money, to the 8th of
August, 1842, amounting to $ 1,220, Gardiner promising to
place further securities in his hand. On the 13th of August,
1842, Gardiner brought to him three other certificates for
$ 1,000 each, payable to Baldwin, and indorsed by him, the
numbers of which he does not recollect, to be held as security
for the sums already advanced, and such new loans as he might
thereafter make. And he did afterwards, to the 16th of December, 1842, lend him other sums amounting to $ 857, making in
the whole $ 2,077. That as to the first three certificates, they
were, as he believes, the property of Gardiner ; and as to the
last, Gardiner, at the time of the deposit, informed him he had
full control and right to sell, pledge, or hypothecate them ; and
he did verily believe that Gardiner was the true bonafide owner
thereof, by regular assignment from Baldwin, and he took the
same as he, had taken the three previously given him, without
any knowledge or suspicion of any fact or circumstance that
could affect or invalidate the title of Gardiner to them. He
further states on information and belief that Baldwin did in fact
indorse the said three last-mentioned certificates in the presence
of Gardiner, and hand them to Gardiner, with the express purpose and design that Gardiner should 'go into the market and
negotiate the same, and apply the proceeds to his own use, in
payment of moneys due and payable by Baldwin to him; and

584

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. Ely.

he charges the fact to be, that Baldwin indorsed them with the
express design and intention of passing, by such indorsement, a
perfect title to Gardiner, or tb any person to whom Gardiner
might transfer them, and thus he gave this defendant the legal
right to write over Baldwin's indorsement any words of assignment necessary to give him a perfect title to them; that some
time in the tnonth of December, 1842, Gardiner represented to
him that the certificates had greatly increased in value, and
that three of them would be sufficient security for him, and requested him to give up three of the six. He did so, without
observing how they were numbered; and, some time after,
Gardiner again applied to him to exchange the three certificates
which he had so given 4p to him for the other three, and he,
knowing no difference therein, received them back, and these
three last are now in his possession, and are numbered 989, 990,
991. He denies all fraud, and claims them as his own.
To this answer the plaintiff filed a general replication.
A commission was issued to take testimony, and under it the
evidence of James Bolton and George W. Riggs was taken for
the complainant, aid that of Perry G. Gardiner for the defendant.
The depositions .of Bolton and Riggs need not be further
mentioned, as they related chiefly to the exchange of certificates.
Gardiner states that Baldwin had passed to him in payment
of a debt several certificates similar to these, three of which he
had hypothecated with the defendant, for a loan of money made
by defendant to him. -And in August, 1842, Baldwin gave him
the three certificates mentioned in the bill for the express purpose of raising money, or by hypothecation to pay him (Gardiner) for services rendered by him to Baldwin; that Baldwih
tbok them out of his portfolio and indorsed them in his presence, and delivered them to him, and told him to get the money
as soon as possible;. that he took them directly to Mr. Ely, got
some money on them, and he agreed to advance further sums,
which he afterwards did advance; that he told Mr. Baldwin
he had raised the money on these certificates. He states further, that in the month of -Uecember, 1842, he obtained from
Mr. Ely the first three certificates, leaving the three mentioned
in the bill in the hands of Mr. Ely, and sold them to Perking
Nicholls, a broker, and afterwards, 14th June, 1843, got them
from E. Riggs, to whom Nicholls had sold them, and returnrd
them to Ely. That Baldwin had advertised these three certificates as having been stolen from him, and witness called. on
him and asked him the meaning of it. He said it was to

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

585

Baldwin v. Ely.

frighten Mr. Sayre and Mr. Allen, .who held the five other
certificates mentioned in the advertisement; that he would, as
soon as he could raise the money, pay off Ely's advances, and
take up the three certificates in controversy. Ely iever has
been paid.
The cause was set for hearing by consent on the bill, answer,
exhibits, depositions, and general replication, and on the 25th
of May, 1846, the Circuit Court passed the following decree: "This cause coming on to be heard on the bill, answer, and
exhibits filed therein, and the complainant, by his counsel, objecting to the admissibility of the evidence of Perry G. Gardiner,
whose deposition was taken in the said cause; and this court
having heard the argument of counsel, and considered the said
cause, the said objection to the admisgibility of the saia evidence is hereby overruled; and it is, this 25th day of May,
1846, ordered, adjudged, and decreed by the court, that the
said bill be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, and that the
complainant do pay to the said defendant his costs herein, to
be taxed by the clerk of this court."
From this decree the complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Bibb, for the appellant, and Mr. Bradley, for the appellee.
Mr. Bibb examined the case under two pints of view.
1st. If Gardiner's testimony should.be admitted:
2d. If it were excluded. (The argument under the first
head is omitted.)
2. The deposition of Perry G. Gardiner must be considered
by this court as suppressed for interest and incompetency, upon
the exception taken to it in the Circuit Court.
The case of the defendant, divested of the deposition of the
interested witness (Gardiner), is bald; his defence is without
proof, and he stands before the court in no better condition
than as a finder of these lost or purloined certificates.
The bill alleges the awards of the board of commissioners in
favor of the appellant, the issuing of these certificates to him
in pursuance of the awards and the acts of Congress, and. his
possession thereof as of his own property. The answer admits
those matters of the bill, but sets up matters by way of avoidance, to which the plaintiff put in the general replication. It
behooved the defendant to make out by proof whatever was insisted on by way of avoidance. (Bull. N. P. 237.)
This is according to the established course in chancery. If
the answer of a defendant, as to matter alleged by way of

586

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. Ely.

avoidance, and after a general replication, were to be taken as
true without proof, then a suit in equity would be but little
better than a mockery. Any hardened defendant, if not required to prove what he alleged in avoidance, could swear himself clear.
The appellee has no assignment to himself; he does not pretend-to any thing more than that Perry G. Gardiner deposited
the certificates as collateral security for money lent. Take away
the deposition of the interested witness, Gardiner, and every
matter set up by the defendant's answer in avoidance of the
plaintiff's title to the certificates, issued to him, apparent on
their face, and confessed by the answer, rests wholly in the allegation of the answer, without proof. The defendant is without proof that he lent Gardiner any sum, even a cent, upon
these certificates. The defendant is without proof that he gave
value for them, or how he came by them.
It appears from the depositions of Mr. Bolton and Mr. Riggs,
that the possession of these certificates, now relied on by the
defendant, must have been acquired on or after the 21st of June,
1843, after they were advertised by the appellant as having
been lost or purloined, and after notice thereof had been given
in the Department of the Treasury of the United States.
The ddfendant, in his answer, avers and charges, upon information which he believes to be true, "that the said complainant did in fact indorse the said three last-mentioned certificates," (meaning those which he says Gardiner delivered to
the defendant on the 13th of August, 1842,) "in the presence
of the said Gardiner, and hand the-same to the said Gardiner
for the express purpose and design that the said Gardiner should
go into the market and negotiate'the same, and apply the proceeds to the use of himself, the said Gardiner, in payment of
moneys due and payable from said Baldwin to said Gardiner."
This matter, so alleged in avoidance, is totally without any
color of proof, save in the deposition of the interested, discredited, incompetent witness, Gardiner himself.
The defendant further says, that he "is informed, believes,
and expressly charges the fact to be, that the said Baldwin did'
indorse said certificates with' the express design and intention
of passing, by such indorsement, a perfect title to said certificate to the said Gardiner, and to any other person to whom the
said Gardiner might afterwards transfer theth1
This allegation, like the former, is totally destitute of proof, without the
deposition of this same interested, incompetent witness, Gardiner, who is swearing to saddle upon the appellant's property
the debt of the witness to the appellee for money borrowed,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

587

Baldwin v. Ely.

and of which witness says, "I have never paid Mr. Ely.any
of the advances made by him on these certificates, and I am
still indebted to him for them." Suppressing the deposition of
this interested witness, as this court must do upon the exception taken to it in the court below, there is no delivery to
Gardiner proved ; no bargain, no contract, no consideration,
between the appellant, Baldwin, and the witness, Gardiner.
The complainant has never assigned them, never received any
consideration for them, but charges (upon his oath to his bill
of injunction) that these certificates, Nos. 989, 990, and 991,
"were either lost by him, or, as he verily believes, stolen from
his possession." The defendant alleges that the plaintiff delivered them to Gardiner, "in payment of moneys due from
the said Baldwin to the said Gardiner." Take away the deposition of this interested, incompetent witness, Gardiner, and
this allegation of the defendant is without proof, either of the
delivery or of the consideration alleged.
The defendant "insists that said indorsement was intended
to give, and does in law give, the right to this defendant, as
the holder thereof, to write over the name so indorsed any
words of assignment necessary or convenient to convey a perfect title to himself, and thus carry out the original design of
said Baldwin in making such indorsements."
In this the defendant has pleaded and averred, first, an in-.
tention and design of the primitive owner of these certificates
to transfer his property in them, which is a fact to be proved;
secondly, that the original owner has signified his intention and
design to transfer his right of property in a manner sufficient in
law to effect a transfer.
In discoursing of these matters, to arrive at truth, the surest
method is by proceeding from that which is exclusive and negative to that which is inclusive and affirmative. These certificates are not bills of exchange, nor any species of negotiable
paper, ruled by the law merchant. They have none of those
peculiar privileges allowed to paper negotiable, according to the
law merchant, in order to give full effect to their utility as a
medium of trade and commerce. These certificates have no
resemblance to bills of exchange, or promissory notes made assignable by the statute of Anne "in like manner as bills of
exchange." These certificates were payable out of a particular
fund, to be furnished by the republic of Mexico to the United
States from time to time; and, when so furnished, to be distributed among various claimants, pro rata, and subject to the
condition expressed in the tenth section of the act of Congress
of June 12, 1841. They were not assignable by the common

588

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. Ely.

law. They cannot be transferred so as to vest an absolute
property in the holder, exempted from all question of a consideration given for the transfer, like unto the privilege allowed to
bills of exchange, of presumption of a sufficient consideration
for the transfer when held by a third person, -a privilege allowed to such papers only as are governed by the law merchant, in order to strengthen and facilitate that commercial intercourse which is carried on through the medium of paper
securities, properly denominated mercantile paper, negotiable
according to the law merchant; or to such papers as by statute
have been assimilated to bills of exchange in their assignable
qualities.
The act of Congress of September 1, 1841, made in addition
to that of 12th June, 1840, authorized'the Secretary of the
Treasury "1to issue certificates to the persons authorized to
receive the sums so awarded, their legal representatives and
assigns,"' in the manner directed by the seventh section of
the act of 12th June, 1840; that is, to the assignees of the
awards, subject, however, to the conditions and reservations
mentioned in both of those statutes. But neither of these statutes made the certificates themselves, when issued, asignable,
much less assignable in like manner as bills of exchange. On
the contrary, the tenth sectibn of the act of 12th June, 1840,
and the proviso of the act of 1st September, 1841, repel the
idea that Congress intended to convert these certificates into
a circulating medium, with assignable qualities, like unto bills
of eichange.
They are therefore certificates, under the seal of the government, payable out of the particular fund, when provided by the
Mexican government, subject to conditions and reservations,
having no peculiar privileges in the hands of an assignee beyond bonds at common law, payable to the obligee, his heirs,
executors, administrators, and assigns, which are not made assignable by.statute, but, like all bonds and other choses in action, are *assignable in equity.
In the case of Williamson v. Thomson, &c., 16 Yes. 443,
it appears that David Thompson obtained fromh the Et.st India
Company, at their treasury in Bengal, certificates of deposit to
entitle him to receive the money from the treasury of t ie company in England. These certificates were indorsed by said
David, and remitted, with other funds, to his brother, George
Thompson, with instructions to effect insurance on account of
David on the lproperty he had taken on board the ship Earl of
Dartmouth, on his homeward voyage to England. Before the
redeipt of the letters in England said George became a bank-

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

589

Baldwin v. Ely.

rupt. The ship Earl of Dartmouth.was lost; David escaled,
but died on board another ship, having previously published his
will, appointing his brothers, George and William Thompson,
executors, who obtained probate. The assignees of the bankrupt, George, got possession at the India house of all the letters
addressed to said George Thompson, effected insurances, &c.,
and having obtained from the executor, George, his indorsement of the East India Company certificates, received the
money, claiming it as of the effects of the bankrupt, George
Thompson. Lord Chancellor Elden determined that the property of the said David Thompson did not pass at law by his
indorsement of the India certificates; and the said George having become a bankrupt, and the assignees having possessed
themselves of all the papers, and there being no evidence of
any specific appropriation by said David of these certificates,
they did not pass in law or equity by the indorsement, but
remained of the property aud estate of the said David Thompson.
The decision in the case of Glyn v. Baker, 13 East, 509,
was, that an India bofid was not assignatble. This was before
the statbte of 51 George III., ch. 64, which makes them assignable, and enables the assignee to sue in his own name.
"A bare indorsement of a name transfers no property, and
therefore, where the plaintiff produced the note withhis own
name indorsed; Lee, Chief Justice, suffered him to strike it
out." Bull. N. P. 275.
The case of Irvine v. Lowry, 14 Peters, 298, 299, arose upon
a note payable to Guy C. Irvine in bank notes, and indorsed
with the name of Guy C. Irvine in blank.
This court decided that the paper was not negotiable, either by
the usage and custom of merchants, the statute of Anne, or the
kindred act of Pennsylvania. "It is not negotiable by indorsement, and not being under seal, it is not assignable by the act
of Assembly on that subject relating to bonds. The bank,
therefore, cannot sue in their name in virtue of the indorsement
of Irvine in blank; nor could they sue if it was spedially indorsed'to them, because the legal right of action would still remain in Irvine, though the equitable right in the thing promised
may have passed to the bank."
This decision is clear and conclusive to show that the mere
-indorsement of the name of Baldwin upon these certificates did
not divest Baldwin of his legal right; and if any person other
than Baldwin claims a right or interest in these certificates, it
can only be an equitable right, growing out of a contract for a
transfer founded upon valuable consideration' paid to Baldwin
voL. ix.
50

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. El.

for his property therein, sufficient to raise a trust and use in
equity in favor of such assignee.
That the assignee of a paper not negotiable according to the
law merchant, nor made by statute negotiable in like manner
as bills of exchange, cannot claim the privileges, remedies, and
protection accorded to indorsees by the law merchant, but takes
such paper at his peril, subject to all equities and infirmities of
title, will appear by these decisions in the courts of law and
equity. Wheeler v. Hughes, 1 Dallas, 27, 28; McCullogh v.
Houston, 1 Dall. 443, 444; Drake v. Johnson, Hardin, 223;
landeville v. Riddle, 1 Cranch, 298; Jenny v. Herle, 1 Strange,
591; Banbury v. Lissett, 2 Strange, 1212; Peters v. Soame and
Greene, 2 Vern. 428; Coles v. Jones and another, 2 Vern.
692 ; Turton v. Benson and others, 2 Vern. 765. The cases of
Williamson v. Thomson, 16 Ves. 443, decided by Lord Eldon,
of Theed v. Lovel, Bull. N. P. 275, by Chief Justice Lee, and
of Irvine v. Lowry, 14 Peters, 298, 299, by the Supreme Court
of the United States, are insurmountable authorities establishing the principle "that the bare indorsement of a name transfers no property"; thattthe mere indorsement of John Bald'win's name in blank on these certificates did not divest him of
his property in them, and transfer his right to another person.
An assignment of these certificates could be effected only by
a contract, by an agreement to which John Baldwin was a party assenting, -by an agreement between him and another person or other persons, by which they formed an engagement
between them, the owner, John Baldwin, assenting, upon
valuable or good consideration to transfer his property in these
certificates, and the other party assenting to accept the transfer
and pay the consideration. An assignment so made would have
been binding in equity; but a court of equity does not sanction
a nudum. pactum any more 'than a court of law.
The indorsement of his name upon these certificates issued
to John Baldwin did not include a lawful right, a legal authority, to any finder or purloiner to write over that name whatsoever he pleased, and to transfer the property of John Baldwin
thereby. An authority to transfer can be derived only from the
assent of John Baldwin, signified lawfully and in some better
manner than the simple production of his name indorsed in
blank, without proof of any thing or circumstance, other than
his name
Men write their names upon blank leaves in their books to
identify their rights of property in those books. As there are
different men having the same names, - as, for example, several
men named John Rogers, or John Scott, or John Smith, or

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

591

Baldwin v. Ely.

John Anderson, or John Baldwin, -the
name of the original
proprietor, written by his own hand, may be of use in questions
of property and identity of the owners between persons of the
same name, or their representatives, because men are distinguished by their handwriting as well as by their faces; for it
is very seldom that the shape of their letters agrees any more
than the shape of their bodies. But it would be absurd to say,
that a person who obtained possession, by finding or by purloining, of a book with the name of the owner written in blank
on a blank leaf, thereby acquired an authority to write over the
name a transfer of the right of property. And it would be
ridiculously absurd to suppose, that, if a person cut such leaf
out of a book, he, or any other person to whom he might deliver, thereby acquired a lawful right or authority to write over
the name an assignment of a chose in action, or a bill of sale
of a horse, or other property belonging to the person who had
so written his name.
The bare writing of a name,-the bare indorsement of a
name, - gives no authority, transfers no property, except only
in certain peculiar privileged cases, ruled and governed by the
law merchant, which is not applicable to these.
Chief Justice Holt said, the merchants of Lombard Street
could not make or unmake the law, and as often as they came
into court upon promissory notes before the statute of Anne,
declaring on them as bills of exchange, he nonsuited them.
The brokers of Wall Street can no more transmute these certificates into bills of exchange, than the merchants of Lombard
Street could convert promissory notes into bills of exchange.
Mr. Bradley, for the appellee, contended,
I. That Gardiner was a competent witness. (That part of
his argument is omitted.)
VI. But suppose we have failed to show that Gardiner is a
competent witness, how stands the case then ? We have the
bill, answer, and depositions of Bolton and Riggs. By the
former it is averred, and by the answer it is admitted, that these
papers were once the property of Baldwin, and that he indorsed
them; and the proof shows, that, with his indorsement, in the
month of December, 1842, when they were worth only 25 per
cent., they came in open market to the possession of Elisha
Riggs, in New York, and were retained by him, or his agents,
till the month of June, 1843. The complainant says they were
stolen or lost. How, when, where, or by whom he does not
suggest, but he did not discover the loss till February, 1843,
and then gave notice at the Department, and that is all ; and

592

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. Ely.

he says they are now in the possession of the defendant, that
he is remediless, save in this court, "tto obtain a discovery of
the right and title which said Ely possesses, or under which he
claims, and that said certificates may be delivered up to your
orator as obtained from him by fraud' or theft; and he prays
that said Ely may be required to prove and show how the said
certificates were procured from your orator, and for what consideration, and when and where."
The case, then, is that of a man who puts his name on the
back of a paper containing an obligation to pay money to himself, and which paper he seeks to recover from a third person
who is holding and claiming it. He avers that it was lost or
stolen, and he seeks to discover from the holder, and calls upon
him to show and prove how, and for what consideration, and
when and where, he became possessed of it.
The first question which naturally presents itself is, On
whom is the burden of proof in the first instance ?
It is said the paper is not negotiable, and possession does not
import ownership. If the cases already cited are authority, it
is evident that any person taking bond fide for a valuable consideration, and without notice, the papers thus indorsed, would
thereby acquire a title to them. It may be true, that they
stood on'the same footing as promissory notes prior to thb
statute of 3 & 4 Anne, by which they were first made negotiable; but it has not been doubted for many years that the
assignee of a chose in action has title to it. It is also an admitted principle in regard to such instruments, that, with the
indorsement of the payee upon them, the title passes by delivery, if they were delivered with that intent; and it has been
expressly ruled, that the holder would have a right to fi1 up
the indorsement to himself. The difference, and the only essential difference, is, that the statute and the law merchant
operating upon negotiable paper pass the legal itle by indorsement and delivery, and dispense with proof of the consideration
between the original parties for which it was passed. There
is, then, nothing on the face of the papers to put the party on
his guard, but every thing to show that Baldwin had parted
with them voluntarily.
* He avers that they wete lost or stolen; but as to the time,
place; or circumstances of their disappearance, he is silent. He
professes to have discovered the loss in February, 1843 ; yet it
is clear, by his own proof,'that they were out of his possessiou
as early as the December previous. He had indorsed them;
but for what purpose, or when, he cannot say. I4 his.bill, he
says (p. 3), " Immediately on discovering the siid abstraction,

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

593

Baldwin v. Ely.

he notified the Treasury Department, by letter dated 12th February, 1843," and in his affidavit he says (p. 57), that "some
time in the year 1842 there was lost, mislaid, or purloined from
my possession,, three certificates of the Tgeasury of the United
States for Mexican indemnity, numbered as follows, viz. 989,
990, 991, which were advertised in the Madisonian for six consecutive weeks during the months of May and June, 1843,"
&c. These are all the facts stated and relied on as evidence
of notice.
Not a tittle of proof is afforded by him of these pretended
facts. They are not admitted in the answer. He was therefore bound to prove them, if they are at all material to his
case.
The answer denies, in the most explicit terms, the fact of the
loss. He was, therefore, bound to prove it, more especially if,
by his indorsement, he authorized a bondfide holder to write an
assignment over it. Clarke's Ex. v. Van Riemsdyk, 9 Cranch,
153; Hughes v. Blake, 6 Wheat. 453; Carpenter v. Providence
Insurance Company, 4 Howard, 185; Young v. Grundy, 6
Cranch, 51.
The answer admits that the papers once belonged to the
complainant, but that does not dispense with his proving that
he lost them. It is not matter in avoidance. The papers
themselves, being indorsed by the complainant, and in the possession of a third party, are primd facie evidence of his having
parted with them voluntarily, and the answer insists he did so
part with them. This, after any proof of the loss, would be
matter-in avoidance, but not without such proof. It would be
the same in the case of a negotiable instrument. The answer
must admit that the note was delivered to the party to whom
it was payable, and by whom it was indorsed. His indorsement and delivery in the one case imports a consideration ; in
the other, it leaves open the question of consideration, as between the original parties to the paper, but it does not admit
any thing more; it does not admit that it was lost or stolen, or
parted with by the payee without consideration.
However that may be, the answer in this case is explicit,
denies the loss set up by the complainant, and puts him to the
proof. This is the gist of the whole matter, and the complainant having failed in this, his bill must be dismissed.
VII. But it is said these certificates, like those in the case of
Williamson v. Thomson, 16 Ves. 443, are not assignable at
law, and did not pass in law or equity, by the indorsement, but
remained the property of Baldwin, as those did of Thompson.
It is sufficient to say of that case, - 1st. That it does not es-

50*

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. Ely.

tablish the principle for which it is cited; 2d. It was decided
on its peculiar facts. The substance is, that David Thompson,
the owner and holder, indorsed them and forwarded them in
letters to his brother George, who was his general agent in
England, and died. George became bankrupt, and the assignees took possession of all his effects, among others, of the letters
accompanying these certificates, and the certificates themselves,
procured the indorsement of George upon them, and received
the money. The representatives of David claimed them, and
proved these facts. The assignees did not produce the lettdrs,
and relied on the indorsement. The master found that, by reason of the assignees' taking possession of these letters, &c., it
could not be ascertained whether the sums payable by the said
certificates and bill were appropriated, or intended to be appropriated, to any particular purpose, &c. (p. 447.) And the court
say, "Unless the legal effect of the circumstances stated. by the
trustees' report is, that these certificates became the property
of the bankrupt, this court is called upon to make this declaration, upon the intention to appropriate them, and whether the
act of the asignees, or, as is much more probable, the act of the
bankrupt himself, has prevented the court seeing what was the
appropriation intended, every thing is to be inferred that can
be inferred against them." This case, then, does not touch the
principle, that, without other circumstances, the possession of an
assignable instrument indorsed by the assignee is priwd face
evidence that he has voluntarily parted with it.
The case of Irvine v. Lowry, 14 Pet: 298, does no more than
affirm the principle, that a suit at law to recover a chose in action must be in the name of the payee or obligee, in whom the
legal title still remains, unless there be an enabling statute
changing the common law, while it affirms the proposition that
the bond, bill, or note' passes by indorsement and delivery.
The other cases relied on in the argument go no further, unless it be to show that the assignee of a chose in action takes
it subject to the equities subsisting between the original parties.
But it is said the "assignment could be effected only by a
contract, by an agreement to which Baldwin was a party assenting. ..... upon a valuable consideration, to transfer his
property in these certificates, and the other party assenting to
accept the transfer and pay the consideration." And it is admitted, that "an assignment so made would have been binding
in equity." This is conceding the whole question, and retracting all that precedes it. We are in equity. It is a question
of evidence. The bare indorsement of negotiable naDer does

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

595

Baldwin v. Ely.

not transfer the title. It must be accompanied or followed by
delivery. So of a chose in action, the fullest words of assignment do not transfer the title. There must be a delivery. In
the former case, the negotiable paper, possession is evidence of
delivery. In the latter case, the possession by the assignee is
as strongyrimd facie evidence. But, if the indorsement of his
name by the payee, and a delivery to a third person, will authorize that person to fill up the assignment in the name of the
payee, and thus as effectually transfer the title as if it were first
filled up by the assignee before delivery, can there be a question that the possession of such a paper, with a blank indorsement, is primdfacie evidence of delivery?
The questions are, What is the form of an assignment, and
how must it be evidenced? There is no precise form. It
may be by delivery. Briggs v. Dorr, 19 Johns. 96, citing numerous cases; Onion v. Paul, 1 Har. & Johns. 114; Dunn b.
Snell, 15 Mass. 485; Titcomb v. Thomas, 5 Greenl. 282. True,
it is said it must be on a valuable consideration, with intent to
transfer it. But these last are requisites in all assignments, or
transfers of securities, negotiable or not. It may be by writing under seal, by writing without seal, by oral declarations,
accompanied in all cases by delivery, and on a just consideration. The evidence may be by proof of handwriting and proof
of possession. It may be proved'by proving the signature of
the payee or obligee on the back, and possession by a third
person. 3 Gill & Johns. 2M8.
It is a question of authority, the authority dependent on the
act and intent. When a man delivers to another a blank piece
of paper, of convenient and proper size for a promissory note,
with his name signed in that part where the signature to a
promissory note ordinarily appears, and the holder fills it up
with a promise to himself, the authority to do so is immediately implied from these acts. When he writes his name across
the middle of such a piece of paper, and the holder writes a
promissory note, payable to him or order, on the other side, the
fair presumption is, that he intended this as the consequence of
his act.
It is a question of delivery; he is the holder of theie certificates. He assigns no reason for, or time, place, or circumstance
of or attending his doing so, but he indorses these three certificates. Why indorse these three? Where was he when he
indorsed them? Where did he keep them? When did he los4
them? Where? Who saw them? Can he afford no clew to trace
how, when, where, under what circumstances, all or any of
these things occurred? And what steps did he take? He tells

596

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. Ely.

us at one time, that immediately on discovering his loss he gave
notice at the Department. Then he took advice of counsel.
Could he not prove these facts? But what else? In his affidavit he says they were stolen in the year 1842, and he advertised them in May and June, 1843, six months after their loss,
and three months after his .discovery of that loss. Are these
the acts, is this the conduct, of a man who has really sustained
a loss of three thousand dollars? Yet even of this he gives no
proof. Did he lose them? He has failed to prove a fact or
circumstance from which the loss can be inferred; they are in
the possession of a third party. Must he not have delivered
them ?
But if we err in supposing the burden of proof is on him to
'show the loss, or that he has in fact made a primH facie case of
loss, and if we are wrong in supposing the indorsements made
by him are primd facie evidence of his having voluntarily
parted with them, and cannot now reclaim them, we say, Finally, this is a bill for discovery and relief. The complainant was not satisfied with setting up his loss, but he calls
for a discovery of the right and title which said Ely possesses,
or under which he claims! So far as this discovery is made
through the answer, the answer is responsive to the bill, and is
evidence of the facts stated ,in it. This, therefore, makes evidence all that part of the apswer which states the transactions
between the defendant and Gardiner. It is, then, clear that
the defendant became the holder of the certificates indorsed by
complainant bond fide, without notice, on a just consideration,
as the property of Gardiner. The complainant himself has
proved that Elisha Riggs bought them.from Perlkins Nicholls, a
broker in the city of New York, and sent them to the house of
Corcoran & Riggs ; and further, in his bill he sets up that
they will be paid at the Treasury Department on the 5th of
February, unless restrained by the injunction of the court. He
has therefore clearly shown, not only that they passed by delivery among brokers and others, but that the holder with this
indorsement upon them was recognized at the Treasury De.
partment as owner. Mr. Ely, then, acted but as other prudent
men would have acted, in giving credit to this indorsement.
Here the complainant himself has recognized its force by stopping the payment. Jt follows that, by his voluntary indorsement and his negligence, the defendant has been induced to
part with his money. But for those indorsements, Gardiner
could not have obtained the money; and but for the want of
care of Baldwin in preserving his papers, Gardiner could not
have presented them to Ely. Volenti non fit injuria. That

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

597

Baldwin v. Ely.

he knew the consequences of his indorsement if he passed-the
papers is apparent from/his whole conduct. It would otherwise
have been but a snare for the most wary. He now comes into a
court of equity to be relieved from the consequences of his own
negligence. Can he have relief until he does equity? Was
not the court below bound to dismiss his bill unless he offered
to redeem a mortgage thus created by his want of care?
I have avoided any discussion of much that is relied on on
the other side, thihking that a general summary may suffice to
.correct some of the most material errors of fact and erroneous
deductions which are apparent in the argument.
Mr. Ely states that he made his first advance in April, 1842,
upon three certificates, the numbers of which he does not recollect , and afterwards made further advances on promises of additional security. On the 13th of August, 1842, Gardiner deposited with him three other certificates, and received further advances to the 16th of December, 1842, when the whole sum was
$2,077; that some time in or about that month Gardiner called
and represented to.him that the certificates had become much
more valuable in consequence of the arrangements then recently perfected between the United States and Mexico, and requested him to let him withdraw three of the six he had deposited. He does not state, as is supposed in the argument for
complainant, that such arrangements had been made, but that
Gardiner told him so. Gardiner may have stated what was not
the fact, but that does not affect Mr. Ely. He further says,
that, some time after that, Gardiner again applied to him to ex-'
change them -that is, the three which he had thus received
from Ely -for those then held by Ely, and he, knowing no
difference, assented to it, made the exchange, and the three he
then received are those now in controversy. It is, then, evident
that he had these three certificates as early as April, 1842, or certainly as early as the 13th of August, 1842. Yet Baldwin doeb
not discover the loss, according to his statement, till February,
1843. There is, then, in all this nothing in the remotest degree to raise a doubt of the entire fairness of Mr. Ely in the
matter. It issaid that Riggs and Bolton prove this .last exchange to have been -made as late as thd 14th of June, 1843,
and after the certificates had been advertised as stolen. But
we have already shown there is bot a particle of proof in the
cause 6f any such advertisement, or other notice, having at any
time been given by Baldwin. There is nothing from which it
can be inferred that Ely had any ground to suspect the title;
they were the same certificates he had held nearly a year before. and the very papers indorsed by the complainant on

598

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. Ely.

which he had lent the money, which has not been repaid to
him to this day.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court,
This case is brought here by appeal from the decision of the
Circuit Court for the District of Columbia for the County of
Washington, sitting as a court of chancery.
The appellant filed his bill in that court, stating that large
sums of money were awarded to him under the convention with
Mexico, for which he obtained certificates, payable to him or
his assigns, from the Treasury Department, according to the act
of Congress of September 1, 1841. That among these certificates were three for one thousand dollars each, numbered 989,
990, and 991; that upon the back of these certificates, among
others, he wrote his name, but without any words of transfer
or assignment, and continued to hold them as the lawful owner; and that while he thus held them, the said'three certificates
were either casually lost by him, or, as he verily believed, purloined or stolen. He states further, that upon discovering their
loss he gave notice of it to the Secretary of the Treasury, who
agreed :o suspend payment in case they should be presented,
until an opportunity should be afforded him to regain possession
of them, or to assert his right by some legal proceeding, but
that he had been unable to discover where these certificates
were, or who held them, until a short time before the bill was
filed, when he received notice from the Department, that they
had been presented for payment on behalf of the appellee, and
would be .paid accordingly, unless sufficient grounds for refusing should be furnished by the appellant; and that as the appellee resided out of the District of Columbia, and his agent
was a member of Congress, and therefore not liable to arrest, he
was without remedy except by the aid of the court to obtain a
discovery of the right and title which Ely, the appellee, possessed, or under which he claimed; and prayed that he might
be required to prove and show how the certificates were procured from the appellant, and for what consideration, and when
and whdre, and to produce them before the court, and be compelled by its decree to deliver them to the complainant.
. The appellee appeared and, put in his answer, in which he
states that-these certificates, indorsed in blank by the appellant,
were delivered to him by a certain Perry G. Gardiner, to be
held as security for loans and advances previously made by the
appellee to the said Gardiner, and also for such further loans
and advances as he might thereafter make. He further states,
that he afterwards made sundry advances- which he particularly

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

599

Baldwin v. Ely.

mentions, and that he has altogether advanced to Gardiner two
thousand and seventy-seven dollars, for which he holds these
certificates. He further states, that, at the time he took them,
he believed, from Gardiner's representations, that he was the
owner, and had no knowledge or suspicion of any circumstance
that could invalidate his title. And further, that he is informed,
and believes, and charges, that they were indorsed with the express intention of passing by such indorsement a perfect title
to Gardiner, and handed by the appellant to him, that he might
go into the market and negotiate them, and apply the proceeds
in payment of a debt due from Baldwin to him.
The tragsactions between the appellee and Gardiner are set
out in the answer much more particularly and in detail than is
here stated, and a great portion of it is taken up in stating a
transaction between him and Gardiner concerning a pledge of
other certificates, upon which a large portion of the advances
now due were originally made, and explaining how these three
certificates became finally pledged for the whole amount loaned
by the respondent, and the others released. But it is unnecessary to state these particulars here, because we see nothing in
the case to impeach the fairness and good faith of the appellee,
and the summary above given is sufficient to show the issues
upon which this controversy must be decided.
Gardiner was examined as a witness on the part of the appellee, and sustains in every respect the statement in the answer.
But his testimony is objected to by the appellant, first, upon
the ground that he is interested, and therefore incompetent;
and secondly, that if he is competent he is not worthy of credit.
It is not necessary to express an opinion upon the validity of
either of these objections, for the admission or rejection of hig
testimony would not change the equity of the case.
Putting aside, therefore, the testimony of Gardiner, it appears
from the bill and answer that the appellee is in possession of
these certificates, claiming title to them as assignee. The act
of Congress directs that such certificates shall be made payable
to the person entitled under the award of the commissioners,
his legal representatives or assigns, and the certificates in question were issued in conformity to the law, and made payable
to the party, his legal representatives or assigns, upon the surrender of the certificates at the Department. They are therefore legally transferable by assignment, and no particular form
of assignment is prescribed. The certificates in question were
indorsed in blank by the appellant, and that indorsement would
be altogether useless and unmeanihg, unless made for the purpose of transferring the property to an assignee, and authorizing

600

SUPREME COURT.
Baldwin v. Ely.

any person entitled to it in that character to write over his
name a formal and regular assignment, if it should become
necessary, or he should deem it his interest to do so. The
holders of certificates of this description, thus indorsed in blank,
have always been recognized at the Treasury Department as
assignees, without any formal assignment, and the money due
on the certificate paid to them, except only when doubts were
entertained of the genuineness of the indorsement, or notice
given that the title of the holder was disputed. Neither the
law nor the -usages of the Department require that the indorsement or assignment should be attested by a witness.
There is nothing, therefore, in the form and character of the
indorsement calculated to awaken suspicion that the appellee
had obtained them unfairly. The handwriting of the appellant is admitted, and the indorsement is according to the usage
sanctioned by the Department at which they are to be paid.
His possession, therefore, upon established principles of law, is
primA facie evidence that he is entitled to the property until
the contrary appears. A different rule would put in jeopardy
the title to a great portion of this scrip, which has been fairly
purchased for a valuable consideration. 'For it has been a common article of traffic, and much of it has passed through a
variety of hands, with no other evidence of an assignment to
the holder but the indorsement in blank of the original payee.
We do not mean to say that these certificates are to be regarded as commercial instruments, to be regulated by the commercial. law, and that the holder is entitled to all the rights which
belong to -a bon- .fide indorsee of a promissory note. He certainly is not. They are, however, property, and the legal right
to them may, under the act of Congress, be' transferred to another, like the right to any other property. And the possession
of them by the appellee, with the customary form of assignment
indorsed, upon them, in the handwriting of the'party to whom
they were originally issued, entitles him to the benefit of the
legal presumptions in favor of his right which 'always arise from
possession, until proof is offered to the contrary.
Now the appellant offers no proof that the certificates were
lost or stolen, as charged in his bill, nor any proof that they
remained in his possession after he indorsed them, nor any evidence that the indorsement was made for any other puripose
than that which it imports; that is, for the purpose of transferring it to another person.
It is true, that it appears from the testimony of witnesses to
whom there can be no objection, that these certificates were
advertised by the appellant, as having been improperly obtained

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

601

Baldwin v. Ely.

from him, and that his advertisement appeared in some newspaper before they were pledged the second time to Ely. But
the advertisement is no evidence of the fact stated in it, and
there is no reason to believe that it came to the knowledge of
the appellee before the last transaction between him and Gardiner. And if Gardiner's testiinony is rejected, there is no evidence in the case to support the allegations in the appellant's
bill, nor any ground upon which he can entitle himself to the
relief he asks for.
Besides, the object of the appellant's bill is for discovery as
well as relief, and to obtain from the appellee a discovery of
the right and title which he possesses, or under which he
claims. The answer, therefore, is responsivb to the bill, when
it states the transactions with Gardiner, and the circumstances
under which he received the certificates, and the advances he
made upon them. And it is entitled to all the weight which
the rules of equity give to an answer when it is responsive to
the bill, and speaks of facts within the personal knowledge of
the respondent.
The case of Williamson v. Thomson, 16 Yes. 442, relied
on by the appellant, depended: on different principles. The
East India, certificate in dispute in that case was not by law assignable, and the order indorsed upon it by the party to whom
it was issued, to pay the amount to another, did not transfer the
1egal right to the money. It might pass the equitable title, if
so intended, but nothing more. The decision turned upon the
meaning and' intention of the indorsement. The Court of
Chancery was called upon to expound it, and to determipe,
from the evidence, whether it was intended as a transfer of the
equitable right, or as an authority merely to receive the money
as the agent of the original payee, and for his use. The court
determined that he took it in the latter character, but upon
evidence which presented a case altogether unlike the one now
before us.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill cannot,
however, be sustained. The appellee admits that he did not
purchase the certificates from Gardiner, but took them as security for the money loaned. Consequently, the appellant is entitled to redeem, upon payment of the advances stated in the.
answer, with interest upon the several sums from-the time they
were- respectively loaned. The decree of the court below
must -therefore be reversed, with the costs in this court, and the
case remanded, with directions to cause an account to be stated
in conformity to this opinion, and to pass a decree requiring
the certificates to be delivered to the appellant, upon his payVOL. IX.

51

-602

SUPREME COURT.
logan et a.

v. Ross.

ing or tendering to the appellee the amount found to be due,.
and in case the money is not paid or tendered by a day to be
fixed lay the Circuit Court, then the certificates to be sold, and
the proceeds apportioned between- the .parties in the manner
herein directed.
In taking the account, the appellee is to be allowed the whole
amount of the loans and advances to Gardiner, for which these
three certificates were ultimately left in pledge. And as the
appellant did not offer to rbdeem them, and insisted on their
absolute re-delivery to him, the court think that, under the circumstances as they appear in the record, the' appellee is equitably entitled to his costs in the Circuit Court, and they are
accordingly in the account to be charged against the appellant.
But as regards the costs in this court, the appellant, by the established rules and: practice of the court, is entitled to recover
them, and they must be charged against the appellee.
A mandate will be issued to the Circuit Court in conformity
with this opinion.
Order.
'This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Distriet of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Washington,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, itis now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the saia Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same
is hereby, reversed, with costs for the appellant in this court,
and 'that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to
,the' said Circuit Court, with directions to that court to proceed
therein in conformity to the opinion of this court, and as to
law and.justice shall appertain.

SxiTH HOGAN,

ARTHU S. HOGAN, ArN RiCHARD Y. REY-OLDS,

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. AARON

OF

Ross, WHo SUES FOR TEE USE

ROBERT PATTERSON.

Wlhire no citation had been issued or served upon the defendant in error, the cause
must be dismissed on motion.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the District
Court ot the United States for the Northern District of Mississippi,

