JANUARY TERKI

1850.

amT

The United States v. Southxnayi et &L

protest may fairly be regarded as applying to all subsequent
cases of a like character, belonging to the same parties.
Judgment affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Maryland, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it. is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court- in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs -and damages at
the rate of six per centum per annum.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

irOl&CS SOTTH&YD

AND STEPMN C. SOVTHD AYD.
The decision in the preceding case of Marriott v. Brune affirmed.
The faet, that the seller of sugars abroad takes into consideration the probableloG
from drainage, does not justify the collector in our ports in charghig a duty upon
the portion thus lost. The duty must be assessed upon what arrires in this muntry, and not upon what was purchased, abroad.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York.
It involved the same question as the preceding case of Marriott v. Brune, viz. whether, in calculating the duties upoi an
importation of sugar, allowance should be made for leakage
and drainage, with the additional fact in -evidence, that the
purchaser abroad takes into consideration the probable loss ir
fixing the price to be paid.
There was in this case only a'single importation, which was
made from Porto Rico, in September, 1849. The weight of
the sugar, according to the invoice, was 191,710 pounds Spanish, and its actual weight at the time of entry 180,713 pounds,
the difference being 10,997 pounds. 'I he sugar' being appraised, the appraisers added a quarter of a cent per pound to
-the invoice, and upon the invoice price, thus increased, the
The defendants paid only
duty amounted to $2,441.70.
$ 2,350, being the duty less the loss in weight from drainage.
VFor the difference, being $ 91.70, the United States brought
suit against the importers. This 'course was pursued in order
54
VOL. Ix.

638

SUPREME COURT.
The U'nited States v. Southmayd et al.

that the case might be brought to this court, under the act of
31st May, 1844 (5 Stat. at Large, 608).
In October, 1849, the cause came on for trial in the Circuit
Court, when the jury, under the instructions of the court, which
are set forth iii the following bill of exceptions, found a verdict
for the defendants.
Bill of Exceptions.

The counsel for the plaintiffs, to maintain the issue upon
their part, . gave in evidence the following invoice and entry.
(It is not necessary to recite them in extenso.)
The counsel for the defendants then and there admitted, that
,the defendants were partners, and imported and.'entered at the
custom-house in the city of New York the merchandise contained.in the saidt invoice and entry; that the invoice weight
of the sugar, so imported and entered-as aforesaid, was 191,710
pounds Spanish, and that its actual weight at the time of entry
for the payment of duty was 180,713 pounds Spanish, and that
the deficiency in the actual weight from the invoice weight
wag caused by drainage during the voyage of importation, and
amounted to 10,997 pounds Spanish, and, at the rate at which
the sugars. in the invoice were appraised for the purposes of
calculating the duty, was of the value of $ 335 in the currency
of the invoice.
The counsel for the defendants .alse admitted, that the duty
iupon the invoice weight of sugar at the valuation of the appraisers amounted to $2,441.70, and that they had paid only
the sum of $ 2,350.
The counsel for the plaintiffs then admitted that the plaintiffs' claim in this cause is only for the sum of $ 91.70, being
the difference between the duty, if assessed according to the
invoice weight, and the duty assessed upon the actual weight
when entered.
The plaintiffs' counsel then called witnesses, who, being
severally duly sworn, testified as follows: .,Isaac Phillips. I am an assistant appraiser in the New York
custom-house, and am principally engaged -upon West India
goods, - sugars and molasses. I have, been such appraiser
since November 30, 1846. The dnvoice now shown me is the
original invoice of the importation of sugars in question in this
case, and there is upon it a return in my handwriting showing
that I added one quarter of a cent per pound to the invoice
value. The duty was made up upon (I.) the -invoice price;
(2,) the charges of export duty and'lnbor; (3.) usual commission;
and (4.) the additidn o a quarter of a cent a pound. This ad'dition amounted to $ 479.28 in the currency of the invoice.

JANUARY

TERtXf

1850.

639

The United States v. Southmayd et aL

Moses Taylor. I am, and for more than twenty years past
have been, an importing merchant in the city of New York,
and am largely concerned in the importation of sugars, mostly
from Havana. My own importations for the last two years
were from thirty to forty millions of pouilds. I imported about
11,000 hogsheads this year, and about 14,000 last year; the
rest of my importation was in boxes. The hogsheads in which
sugar is imported are well drove, but not tight, like liquor-casks.
The export weight of sugar does not generally hold out on
arrival here.
The deficiency is about five per cent. on an average on
Muscovado sugars; by Muscovado we mean sugar not clayed
or refined,- all sugars which come in hogsheads. This
deficiency arises from drainage on the voyage. Never have
been in the West India Islands. The fact of the loss by
drainage is well, known to the trade, and generally enters into
the calculations of the importing merchant; it enters into his
calculations as to the cost of the article here. I always make
such calculation.
Thomas Tileston. I am an importing merchant in this city,
and am largely concerned in the West India trade, and constantly receiving sugars. Muscovadoes fall short on arrival, from
the export weights, from three to seven per cent.; in the extreme
to ten per cent., and on an average four and a half or five per
cent. This deficiency is caused by drainag. What passes off is
syrup or molasses, and goes intor the ship's hold and is a total
loss. Th6 casks are not made tight, because it is not necessary.
Tight hogsheads, which would prevent the loss of weight by
drainage, cost much more than those actually used. Arum-hogshead costs twice as much as the usual sugar-hogshead, and the
rougher casks answer as well. If the syrup or molasses were
kept in by tight hogsheads, it would settle in the lower part of
the hogshead, and it would cost as .much to extract it as it is
worth. The effect of importing in tighter casks is not to improve the sugars. We .all, who are familiar with the trade,
understand that the sugars will fall short. 'We know when we
buy that they will fall short in weight on arrival.
Henry A. Coit. I am an importer of this city engaged in
commerce with the West Indies. I have resided many years
in Cuba, and have seen sugars manufactured and packed.
They are packed in white-oak casks, very strong, to resist
pressure, but not so tight as to prevent drainage. The sugar is
placed in the casks originally for the purpose of drainage. After it is boiled it is first placed in vhts for cooling, where it remains three or four hours; it is then put into the hogsheads,

640

SUPREME COURT.
The United Statkes v. Southmayd et aL

and they are .placed in the receiving-house, standing on their
chines over a tank. The bottom of the hogshead is perforated
with three- or four holes, one half or three quarters of an inch
in diameter, to allow free drainage, ,to let the molasses run into
the tank. -The next process is to put sugar-cane plugs into the
holes, which stops the drainage partially but not entirely. The
sugar remains thus in the receiving-house three weeks, sometimes lopger, for the purpose of drainage - the casks are then
filled up with sugar, the heads put on, the hoops driven, the
casks turned upon their bilges, and rolled out -for exportation;
the holes are generally left with the same stoppage of sugarcane. -The drainage continues until, arrival, and after arrival, in
New York, but-'not through the holes in the heads ot the hogsheads. The per centage of loss is more or less, according to
the perfection of the first drainage and the length of the voyage; the average is about five per cent. The fact that imported
sugafs 4o not hold out in weight is well known to the trade,
and enters into' the calculation of the importer.
-Being cross-examined by -defendants' coungel, the witness
testified that the drainage after the hogsheads are rolled out is

from the bilge between the staves, and from the lower heads,
where the staves join the heads.
Royal Phelps. I am a merchant in New York in the West
India trade, and deal in Porto Rico sugars. I have been in
Porto Rico, and have seen sugars made there. There in no
material difference between the mode of making sugar in Polto
Rico and that in use in Cuba, as stated by the last witness. In
Porto Rico they:use red-oak staves for the hogsheads, and"do
not, usually drain the sugar so long, I ,think, as three weeks.
Porto Rico sugars do not usually hold out on arrival to the export weight; drainage on the voyage is the general cause. I
have known invoices overrun in weight on arrival, but in such
cases I supposed there was some error.in making up the invoices. . This loss is *ell known to the trade, and enters into
the calculations of the merchant ; the average deficiency is five
per cent., perhaps more' Porto Rico usually loses more than
Cuba sugar. I am of the firm of Maitland, Phelps, & Co.
The plaintiffs' counsel thejeupon rested- and the defendants'
counsel thereupon called witnesses, .who,being sworn, severally
testified as follows Thomas Tileston, being further cross-examined by defendant's counsel, testified: We have imported sugar more or less
for more than twenty-five years; have bought and have received consignments. Of late years we have imported several
thousand hogsheads each year. J have usually found the holes

JANUARY TERM, 1950.

641

The United Statik v. Southmayd et aL

in the casks filled with sugar-canewith the hard partof the cane
loosely put in and easily drawn out by a gimlet. The drainage
on the voyage is from the bilge; it is not .possible for it to drain
from the heads, as the casks are stowed on the bilge. "I think
no party would be authorized to stow the casks on the chines ;
good and ordinary stowage would be on the bilge. Thessfgarcane ig a soft substance, and is not put in with much care;. it
is to keep the sugar from coming out of. the holes, and is sufficient for that purpose. It is my impression, from my experience, that the drainage of the sugar produces a grayish
color. The grocers like a sugar of a bright color, with a large,
clear, transparent grain. The draining detracts from the liveliness of the sugar; it produces a grayish color, which makes
it of less value.
-Being cross-examined by the plaintiffs' counsel, the witness
testified: All lAIuscovado sugars diminish above five per cent.
on the average. The sugars that drain most are more likely
to turn gray, and thus be affected as to their value, -than those
that drain little. It is difficult, perhaps impossible, for any one
purchasing sugar in Cuba to tell how it will turn out in New
York, either in respect to drainage or color. In deciding-upon
the quality of sugars, the judgment of merchants is frequently
baffled. I cannot say how large a proportion of sugar turns out
grayish or sick. I can say, as a general*thing, that draining on
the voyage does not improve, but, if any thing, deteriorates the
sugar. The sugar generally changes, but does not improve
on the voyage. The samples imported in air-tight tin cases
(whether rightly sampled in Cuba I cannot say) are better than
the sugars in bulk. I have never been in the countries of expbrt, nor seen sugar made, or before it was exported ; I judge
of the deterioration from what I know, as well as what is the
general opinion.
John W. Downes. I am a master of a vessel. I have become acquainted with the manufacture of sugar in Porto Rico.
I resided there seventeen years, and was connected with the
manufacture of sugar. The process in Porto Rico varies but a
trifle from that described by the witness, Mr. Coit. The sugar
is from fifteen to thirty days purging in the receiving-house in
the casks. The planters use rough-made casks, like rice tierces,
only stronger, made of red-oak. The sugar, when placed in
casks, is a sort of thick syrup. The holes are bored in the
bottom head of the' casks. When the drainage is completed,
the casks are headed up and rolled out. The sellers never stbp
the holes up otherwise than as while draining with sugar-cane.
Sometimes purchasers put in other plugs; I do always, 1;ut as
54 *

642

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. Southmayd et aL

a general rule it is not done. The casks are -stowed on the
bilge, and the drainage is entirely from the bilge, not through
the holes.
Being cross-examined by the plaintiffs' counsel, the witness
testified: The casks are stowed on the bilge because they
make better stowage for the vessel, and in every way.
Being further examined by the counsel for defendants, the
witness testified: I have seen sugar at Porto Rico, on the
voyage, and here. Sugar is deteriorated on the voyage, but
what effect drainage has on it in this respect I cannht say ;
whether it is the steam, want of air, bilge-water, drainage, or
what injures it, but I know the fact that generally it is injured.
The defendants' counsel then introduced in evidence the
following return of the weigher at the custom-house in New
York, which -was read to the court and jury.
Weighmaster's Return, Import per Brig John Colby, Ponce.
H. SOUTnMAYD & SoNs.
TMlatilda,
76 hogsheads of sugar
90,916 10,909 80,007
T
c
cc
4
47,808
5,736 42,072
J
24
"
c
30,820
3,698 27,122
-Quemada, 21
"
C
26,340
3,160 20,575
L M
10
"
12,428
1,491 10,937
180,713
NEw YORK,September 29, 1849.

DAmus FERRY,
United States Weigher.
.....
.191,7101bs.
......
.180,713

Invoice weight ...........
Actual weight in New York ..
Difference
......
..........

10,9971bs.

The defendants' counsel then offered to prove that the drawback upon regxportation was always calculated upon the actual
weight of the sugar at the time of regxportation, as shown by
the weigher's return. To this proof the plaintiffs' counsel objected, but the court overruled the objection, and admitted the
testimony, and to such ruling the plaintiffs' counsel then and
there excepted.
The defendants' counsel then proved that, upon reexportation
of sugars, tne drawback was calculated upon the actual weight,
as. shown by the weigher's return at the time of reixportation.
The defendants' counsel then rested; whereupon the court
charged the jury, that: the United States were not entitled to
'collect any more duties on the defendants' sugars than upon

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

643

The United States v. Southmayd et aL

the appraised value per pound, calculated upon the quantity
actually entered, as shown by the weigher's return, and that
they should find a verdict for the defendants.
To this charge of his honor, the judge, and every part thereof, the plaintiffs' counsel then and there excepted.
Upon this exception the case came up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Johnson (Attorney-General), for the
plaintiffs in error, and Mr. Butler, for the defendants in error.
Mr. Johnson, for the plaintiffs in error, made the following'
points :1st. That the duties were properly assessed upon the amount
of the invoice, under the eighth section of the Tariff Act of
1846.
2d. That by the sixteenth and seventeenth sections of the
Tariff Act of 1842, which are in force, the decision of the ap.
praisers is final, unless appealed Ird~m to two merchants, whose
decision is also final. 5 Stat. at Large, 563, 564.
3d. That if it were not, the duties were properly assessed,
the loss of the sugars from drainage entering into the estimation
of their value at the time of purchase, and their cost to the im.
porter at the time of landing in this country.
4th. That the evidence introduced to show that drawback
upon regxportation was always calculated upon the actual
weight of the sugar at the time of regxportation was improperly
allowed.
Mr. Butler, for the defendants in error, made the following
points: I. It is conclijsively shown, by the facts given in evidence
upon the trial, that the difference between the invoice weight
at the port of shipment, and the actual weight in New York
(10,9971bs. Spanish); was caused by drainage during the voyage of importation.
II. There being no question of fact to be submitted to the
jury, the whole case resolved itself into -a question of law, that
is, the construction to be given to the- proviso in the eighth
section of the Tariff Act of J'uly 30, 1846 (Acts and Resolutions 1st Sess. 29th Cong., authorized pamphlet ed., pp. 69, 70),
declaring, "that under no circumstances shall the duty be assessed upon an amount less than the invcice value, any law
of Congress to the contrary-notwithstanding."
In the interpretation of this clause, it is submitted that the
following rules should be obierved :1st. If the words of the proviso be bbscure, the intent of its

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Southmayd et al.

makers is to be resorted to, in order to discover their meaning.
6 Bac. Abr., tit. Statute, I. § 5, pp. 384-386 ; Dwarris on Statutes, 688 - 690.
2d. This intent is to be collected from the context; from
the occasion, spirit, and reason of the law; from other acts in
_pari materia yet in force; and from the general course of legislation on the subject. 1 BI. Com. 60, 61, 87, 88; 6 Bac. Abr.,
tit. Statute,,I. §§ 2, 3, pp. 380, 382'; 1 Rent's Com. pp. 461464 ; The Sloop Elizabeth, 1 Paine, C. 0. 11; Bend v. Hoyt,
13 Peters, 270-273 ; Lawrence v. Allen, 7 Howard, 793.
3d. While such a construction should be given to the proviso
as will remedy the mia. hief which led to its enactment, the
words should not be extended to embrace cases not within
such mischief. Authorities above cited; Reniger v. Fogossa,
Plowden,. 1, 20 ; Zouch v. Stowell, Plowden, .365, 366; 2
Coke's Inst. 386; Williams v. Pritchard,-4 T. R. 2.
4th. Nor, if the words of the proviso can be otherwise satisfied, should they be so construed as to produce a consequence
repughant to reason or justice, even though such a consequence
be within their literal meaning. Authorities above cited.
5th. Repeals by implication are not favored (6 Bac. Abr., tit.
Statute, D. p. 373 ; 2 Dwarris, 673, 674) ; and therefore a construction which will involve such a repeal of provisions heretofore always treated as an essential part of the revenue laws,
and not plainly repugnant to the new statute, should be
avoided.
6th. A thing which, by the sound application of the foregoing rules, is found not to be within the intent of Congress, is
not within the statute, even though embraced by its letter.
The generality of the clause must, in this case, be so restrained
in its interpretation as to conform to the intent of its framers.
Authorities above cited.
7th. If, after applying all other rules, it be found that the
clause equally admits of two constructions, the one imposing,
and the other omitting to impose, a burden on the importer,
the former of these constructions is to be preferred as the true
one. Dwarris on Statutes, 743; Hubbard v. Johnston, 3 Taunt.
177, 220, 221; Adams v. Bancroft, 3 Sumner, 387; Bend v.
Hoyt, 13 Peters, 270, 273, 278.
III. The claim of the United States, to collect duties on the
invoice weight of the sugars in question, is founded on a construction of the proviso which makes it include the quantity as
well as the cost orvale of the goods mentioned, in the invoice.
If this be its true construction, the following results are'unavoidable: -

JANUARY TERM, 1850.

645

The United States v. Southrxayd et al.

1st. The operation of the clause cannot be limited to Muscovado sugars, the article now in question, but must equally apply to all other imported articles, the cost or value of which is
stated in the invoice in. reference to, and by the computation
of, the quantity of such article.
2d. The merchant will be compelled to pay duties on the
quantity mentioned in his invoice, how much .soever it may
exceed the quantity actually imported, and no matter to what
cause the difference may be referrible.
3d. As the eleventh section of the act of 1846 (pamphlet ed.,
p. 70) repeals all acts and parts of acts repugnant to its provisions, the construction claimed by the government, if adopted,
must of necessity involve the repeal of all former laws making
allowances for damage, deficiency, or loss occurring, by whatever cause, during the.voyage of importation.
4th. It will also render nugatory many acts still required of
the importer, and of the officers of the customs.
IV. The proviso in the eighth section of the Tariff Act of July
30th, 1846, under which the United States claim to collect duties on the invoice weight of the sugars in question, does not,
on its fair and true construction, warrant such claim. It relates
merely to the cost or value of the goods mentioned in the invoice; it leaves the quantity of such goods to be ascertained
according to the preexisting laws; and in cases where quantity
enters into the valuation, it forbids the assessment of the duty
upon an amount less than that produced by calculating the true
quantity of thd goods actually imported, according to the price
or value stated in the invoice; but it does not require or authorize the collection of duties on goods which, though described
in the invoice, are never brought into the country.
V. The proof given on the trial, that the loss in weight on
Muscovado sugars, by drainage during the voyage of importation, is well known to the importing merchants, and enters into
their calculations, has no bearing whatever on the construction
of the act df Congress, nor can it invalidate the construction
given to it by the Circuit *Cotirt. Nor is the fact, in any other
respect, material or relevant to thedecision of this cause.
VI. The fact that the governmentappraisers, on their examination of the sugar, added to its cost or value one quarter of a
cent per pound, amounting, on the invoice weight, to $ 479.28 in
the currency of the invoice (Macuquino currency, 87J cents to
the dollar, Invoice and Entry, Record, pp. 6, 7), and that this
appraisement was submitted to by the defendants, has no bearing whatever on the questions presented by the record.

646

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Southmayd et al.

Mr. Justice WOODBURY delivered the opinion of the court.
This ca'e was an importation of both sugar and molasses,
under circumstances raising no question, except one, which has
not been settled in the preceding case of Marriott v. Brune et al.
The additional point here arises on the evidence of several
witnesses, that, when sugars of this kind are purchased abroad,
the buyer usually takes into consideration in fixing the price,
that the drainage or waste in weight will probably equal near
five per bent. on the whole. It is argued, that the price abroad
is, therefore, lower in this proportion on this account; and
hence, that no deduction should be made here for what is taken
into consideration there.
But the first answer to this position is, that if the price is
fixed too low there, or lower than-it should be on the quantity
likely to be saved and to arrive here, it is the duty of the appraisers to raise the price; and it must be presumed they would
raise it, if required by all the facts.
In the next place, this calculation by the merchant abroad
in fixing the price is a mere speculative or commercial one,
connected with'profit and loss, and not with a view to the duties to be assessed here.
Again, the duty here is regulated by law, and not by any estimates of such a character by men of business; and by law it
is imposed on the quantity entered here, and not the quantity
shipped abroad; and on the true price abroad as estimated by
the appraisers, and not necessarily as estimated by the owners.
Again, if the owner was benefited by this drainage in the
improved quality of the sugars or molasses left, and to the extent of the loss in weight, there might be some equity in considering him liable for the weight abroad. But, as explained in
the preceding case, such does not seem to be the current of the
evidence.
There are cases, likewise, of imports here, made by the producers of the article abroad. In those, this supposed element
in the price to prevent the justice of a reduction in the weight
here could hardly exist, as there is no sale abroad; and this
shows the incongruity and want of applicability of such a fact
to constitute a rule, in any casd, for estimating ad valorem duties.
There is another objection in the argument of this case, that
some matters of fact were not submitted to the jury. But as
no request was made on that point below, and the questions
seem, by icquiescence on both sides, to have been ruled on the
law only, so as to be reconsidered here, it is too late, we think,
for objections like those.
Judgment affirmed.

JANUARY TERM, 1850.
Pennsylvania v. Wheeling

647

nd Belmont Bridge Co. Qt aL

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgfent of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed.

TaE STATE OF PENNSYLVANIA, COMPLAINANT, V. THE WHEELING
AND BELMONt BRIDGE Cox'rANY, WILLIAM OTTERS ".N, AND GEORGE
CRoFT.
In a cause depending in this. court in the exercise 6f original jurisdiction, wherein the
State of Pennsylvania complained of the erection of a bridge across the Ohio
River at Wheeling, the cause was referred to a commissioner, for the purpose of
taking farther proof, with instructions to report to the court by the first day of the
next stated term.

Tins case was transferred to this court by an ordet of Mr.
Justice Grier, one of the judges of the Supreme Court of the
United States, under the following circumstnces.
On the 16th of August, 1849, at the court-room of the Circuit Court of the United States, in the city of Philadelphia, before Mr. Justice Grier, one of the judges of the Supreme Court
of the United States, Mr. Stanton appeared to move for an injunction in behalf of the State of Pennsylvania, at the instance
of her Attorney-General, against the Wheeling and Belmont
Bridge Company, and their agents, William Ottersan and George
Croft.
Notice of the motion was'given on the 28th of July. At the
same time, a copy of the bill was served upon the defendants.
The bill stated, among other things, "1That the Ohio River, being one of the navigable waters
leading into the Mississippi, is, and for a long time hath been,
an ancient navigable public riter, and common highway, free
to be navigated by the citizens df -the State of Pennsylvania,
as Wvell as by all other citizens of the United States. That
heading at. Pittsburg, in the State of Pennsylvaia, and running through that State for thedistance of fifty miles, navigable for its *hole extent from Pittsburg to its mouth, many
citizens of that State long have been, and of right were, and
still are, accustomed to navigate said river, to pass and repass

