JANUARY TERM, 1850.

261

Strader et al. v. Baldwin.

reversed, with costs, and that this cause be, and the same is
hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to
award a venire facias de novo.

JACOB STRADER,

ROBERT BUCHANAN,

JOHN McCORiuICK, JOHN R.

CORAZI, JOSEPH SMITH, JADIES JOHNSON, AND GEORGE C. MILLER,
TRUSTEES OF THE COnIDIERCIAL BANK OF CINCINNATI, V. HENRY

BALDWIN.
Where the defendant pleaded his discharge under the Bankrupt Act of 1841 passed by
Congress, and the plea was allowed, the plaintiff eaunbt bring the case to this
court to be reviewed under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The defendant pleaded a privilege or exemption under a statute of the United States,
and the decision was in fIvor 6f it..
The case must, therefore, be dismissed, for want ofjurisdiction.

THIS case was brought up, from the Supreme Court of the
State of Ohio, within and for the County of Hamilton, by a
writ of error issued under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The case arose in this way.
Baldwin was a clerk in the Commercial Bank of Cincinnati.
In 1844, the trustees of the bank brought an action of assumpsit against him for $ 10,000. Baldwin pleaded, amongst other
matters, that he had received a discharge under the bankrupt
law passed by Congress. The plaintiffs filed a replication, that
the debt was contracted whilst Baldwin was acting in a fiduciary capacity, and therefore not discharged from the debt. The
defendant demurred to this replication, which demurrer was
sustained by the Superior Court, and also by the Supreme
Court of Ohio on error.
The plaintiffs then brought the case to this court, under the
twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
It was argued by 31r. Walker, for the plaintiffs in error, and
Mr. Lincoln, for the defendant in error.
The question of jurisdiction was not argued by either
counsel.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is brought here by a writ of error' to the Supreme
Court of Ohio.
As the power of this court to review the decisions of State
tribunals is limited to certain specified cases and conditions, the

262

SUPREME COURT.
Strader et al. v. Baldwin.

first inquiry which necessarily presents itself is, whether we
have jurisdiction.
The plaintiffs in error instituted this suit in the Superior
Court of Cincinnati. The declaration has the common counts
in assumpsit. The defendant appeared and pleaded his discharge under the act of Congress of the 19th of August, 1841,
The
to "establish a uniform system of bankruptcy, &c."
plaintiffs denied the validity of this discharge, on the ground
that the debt was incurred by defendant while acting as clerk
or book-keeper in the Commercial Bank, and therefore "acting
in a fiduciary capacity."
The Supreme Court of Ohio gave judgment for the defendant, and the plaintiffs prosecuted their writ of error to this
court.
The twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, which is the
only source of our authority in cases like the present, gives this
court jurisdiction to "re6xarline'" the judgment of a State
court only where the decision "is against the title, right, privilege, or exemption specially set up or claimed" under an act
of Congress.
The plaintiffs in this case have set up no act of Congress in
their pleadings, under which they support their claim or title to
recover. It is the defendant who has pleaded a privilege or
exemption under a statute of the United Stat -, and relies upon
it as his only defence. If the decision of.the State court had
been against him, his right to have his case reexamined by this
court could not b- doubted. But the decision has been in
favor of the right set up under the statute, the validity of
which was denied by the plaintiffs. We have no jurisdiction
to entertain a writ of error to the Sup-:eme Court of Ohio at
their suggestion.
This case must, therefore, be dismissed, for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio, within
and for the County of Hamilton, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is.now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the want of jurisdiction.

