FEDERAL COMPRESS CO. v. McLEAN.
7

17

Syllabus.

testimony of third persons to whom such communications
have been voluntarily revealed. The uniform ruling that
communications between husband and wife, voluntarily
made in the presence of their children, old enough to comprehend them, or other members of the family within the
intimacy of the family circle, are not privileged, Linnell
v. Linnell, 249 Mass. 51; 143 N.E. 813; Cowser v. State,
70 Tex. Cr. Rep. 265;, 157 S.W. 758; Fullerv. Fuller, 100
W.Va. 309; 130 S.E. 270, is persuasive that communications like the present, even though made in confidence,
are not to be protected. The privilege suppresses relevant
testimony and should be allowed' only when it is plain
that marital confidence can not otherwise reasonably be
preserved. Nothing in this case suggests any such
necessity.
We do not intimate whether in the present circumstances the wife's testimony, not offered against her husband, would likewise be freed of the restriction. Cf. Nash
v. Fidelity-PhenixFire Ins. Co., 106 W.Va. 672; 146 S.E.
726.
726.
Affirmed.

FEDERAL COMPRESS & WAREHOUSE CO. ET AL.
McLEXN, SHERIFF,

V.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREIME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 166. Argued December 11. 13, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.
1. Cotton produced locally, shipped into a warehouse, and there held
at the exclusive disposition-of its owners-the hblders of negotiable
warehouse receipts--retains its local -status, although in the usu-'
course the owners will uttimately order that it be compressed aid
delivered to a rail carrier for shipment to ultra-state destinations 6f
their selection. P. 21.
2. The business of storing and, compressing the cotton, in such circumstances, is local, and a non-discriminatory state tax upon it is
consistent with the commerce clause of the Constitution. P. 21.

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

3. The fact that a contract between the warehouseman and the interstate rail carrier by which the cotton has been brought to storage
and by Which, in the ordinary course, it ultimately will be trans- ported beyond the State at a single rate from point of origin to
point of destination designates the waiehouseman as the carrier's
agent and the warehouse as the carrier's depot, can not convert
what is a local business into an interstate business. P. 22.
4; Licensing of a warehouse under tle United States Warehousing Act
does not make of it a federal instrumentality or withdraw its business from state taxation. P. 22.
5. The mere extension of control over a business by the National Government does not-withdraw it from a local tax which presents no
obstacle to the execution of the national policy. P. 23.
166 Miss. 739; 147 So. 325, affirmed.
APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment in favor of
a tax collector, based on a directed verdict, in an action
seeking to recover moneys collected by him as 1rivilege
taxes.

Mr. Garner W. Green, with whom Mr. Marcellus Green
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr., W. W. Pierce, Assistant Attorney'General of Mississippi, with whom Mr. Greek L. Rice, Attorney General. was oA the brief, for appellee,
MR. JUSTIc" STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case comes here on appeal, under ยง 237 of the
Judicial Code, for review of a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Mississippi upholding a state excise tax assailed
as a forbidden imposition upon a federal instrumentality,
and as infringing the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. 166 Miss. 739; 147 So. 325. Sections 3, 57, 220,
221, 225, 242, of c.,88, of the General Laws of Mississippi
of 1930 exact an annual license tax for the privilege of
operating a cotton compress, which is graduated according
to the number of bales of cotton compressed per annum.

FEDERAL COMPRESS CO. v. McLEAN.
17

19

Opinion of the Court.

Sections 3 and 63 levy a similar additional tax upon each
person operating a warehouse, whether in conjunction
with a compress or not, which is graduated according to
the storage capacity of the warehouse.
Appellant, a Delaware corporation which maintains and
operates a cotton warehouse and compress at Cleveland,
Mississippi, brought the present suit to recover taxes imposed with respect to both classes of business, paid under
protest to appellee, the tax collector, in 1932. The case
was tried on an agreed statement of facts, from which it
appears that the appellant is licensed by the Secretary of
Agriculture to conduct a warehouse for the storage of
agricultural products under the provisions of the United
States Warehouse Act of August 11, 1916, c. 313, 39 Stat.
486, as amended, c. 10, Tit. 7, U.S.C.A. Appellant has
given a bond for the faithful performance of the duties
which are exacted of a licensed warehouseman by the Act
and by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Agriculture, and its business as a warehouseman is subject- to
his inspection and control as the statutes and regulations
provide.
Cleveland is a shipping point for baled cotton in interstate and foreign commerce and is a market in which
cotton is purchased by brokers and dealers from those who
produce it within the state. The purchases are made for
resale or to fulfill contracts for sale of cotton without the
state. In the usual course of business the purchased
cotton, after it is ginned, is transported to appellant's
warehouse for storage and compression, about 25% arriving by automobile truck or wagon and the remainder by
rail over the line of the single railroad serving Cleveland.
Upon delivery appellant issues its negotiable warehouse
receipts for the cotton, in the form and mannerprovided
by the United States Warehousing A6t. The right to
demand delivery of the cotton or otherwise control its

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

disposition is reserved to the holders of the receipts. A
small part of the stored cotton, from 1% to 10%, is resold
within the state to buyers who sell it to purchasers without the state, but all except a negligible part of it is ultimately shipped to points outside the state. Upon shipping orders given by the holders of the warehouse receipts,
appellant compresses the cotton into bales of standard
weight and size, suitable for shipment, and delivers them
to the rail carrier for interstate transportation. The
movement of the cotton out of the warehouse is directed
by the owners of it, who hold the warehouse receipts. Its
destination is not determined until the owner gives shipping instructions to appellant and shipment is not made
until surrender of the warehouse receipts. The compress
charges are paid by the carrier, which it adds to the charge
for carriage, and in the case of cotton brought to the warehouse by rail carriage, -the through interstate rail rate is
applied from the point of origin to destination instead of
the combination rate, which is the sum of the intrastate
rate to Cleveland and the interstate rate from that poirlt
to 'destination. The identity of the cotton is not preserved in reshipping it and substitution is permitted with
the understanding that the through rate from point of
origin to destination without the state shall not be
affected.
By written agreement with the railroad company, appellant is designated as the agent of the railroad to receive
the cotton from and deliver it to the railroad and to load
and unload cotton upon and from its 'cars. The, agreement also provides for the use of the 'Warehouse by the
railroad as a cotton depot.
Upon this state of facts appellant argues ,that the tax
upon the.business both of warehousing and of compressing the cotton is a forbidden burden on interstate
commerce, and that the warehouse tax is unconstitutional

FEDERAL COMPRESS CO. v. McLEAN.
17

21

Opinion of the Court.

because a direct tax upon a business conducted by appellant as a federal instrumentality, designated as such by its
license under the United States Warehousing Act.
1. It is clear that by all accepted tests the cotton, while
in appellant's warehouse, has not begun to move in interstate commerce and hence is not a subject of interstate
commerce immune from local taxation. When it comes
to -rest there, its intrastate journey, whether by truckor by rail, comes to an end, and although in the-ordinary
course of business the cotton would ultimately reach
points outside the state, its journey interstate does not
begin and so it does not become exempt from local tax
until its shipment to points of destination outside the
state. Before shipping orders are given, it has no ascertainable destination without the state, and in the
meantime, until surrender of the warehouse receipts, it is
subject to the exclusive control of the owner. Property
thus withdrawn from transportation, whether intrastate or
interstate, until restored to a transportation movement
interstate, has often been held to be subject to local taxation. Coe v. Errol, 116 U.S. 517; Bacon V. Illinois, 227
U.S. 504; General Oil Co. v. Crain,209 U.S. 211; Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228 U.S. 665, 669; Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U.S. 1; cf. Arkadelphia Milling Co.
v. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co., 249 U.Si:134..
A non-discriminatory tax upon the business of storing
and compressing the cotton, which is not itself the subject
of a movement in interstate commerce, is not forbidden.
Most articles, before their shipment in interstate commerce, have had work done upon them which adapts them
to the needs of commerce and prepares them for safe and
convenient transportation,' but that fact has never been
thought to immunize from local taxation either the articles
themselves or those who have manufactured or otherwise
prepared them for interstate transportation. American

22

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Manufacturing Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U.S. 459; Crescent
Cotton Oil Co. v. Mississippi, 257 U.S. 129; Oliver Iron
Mining Co. v. Lord, 262 U.S. 172; Hope Natural Gas Co.
v. Hall, 274 U.'S. 284; Utah Power & Light Co. v. Pfost,
286 U.S. 165. Here the privilege taxed is exercised before
interstate commerce begins, hence the burden of the tax
upon the commerce is too 'indirect and remote to transgress constitutional limitations. See Nashville C. & St.
L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U.S. 249. The case, therefore,
stands on a footing different from those in which local
regulations of the business of purchasing a commodity
within and shipping it without the state have been deemed
to impede or embarrass interstate commerce in those commodities. Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257,
U.S. 282; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U.S. 50.
'The fact that appellant's contract with the interstate
rail carrier has designated appellant as the carrier's agent
,,and appellant's warehouse as the carrier's depot cannot
alter the legal consequences of what is actually done with
the cotton by its owners or of their power of control over
it, or of the actual course of dealing with it by appellant.
It is not within the power of the parties, by the descriptive
terms of their contract, to convert a local business into
an interstate commerce business protected by the interstate commerce clause. See Merchants Warehouse Co. v.
United States, 283 U.S. 501, 507-508; Superior Oil Co. v.
Mississippi, 280 U.S. 390; Browning,v. Waycross, 233 U.S.
16, 23.
2. Appellant's license under the United States Warehousing Act did not confer upon it immunity from state
taxation, for nei. her the appellant nor its business was,
by force of the license, converted into an agency or instrumentality of the federal government. The Warehousing Act confers upon licensees certain privileges and

FEDERAL COMPRESS CO. v. McLEAN.
17

Opinion of the Court.

secures to the national government, by means of the
licensing provisions, a measure of control over those engaged in the business of storing agricultural products who
find it advantageous to apply for the license. The government exercises that control in the furtherance of a
governmental purpose to secure. fair and uniform business
practices. But the appellant, in the enjoyment of the
privilege, is engaged in its own behalf, not the government's, in the conduct of a private business for profit. It
can no longer be thought that th enjoyment of a privilege
conferred by either the national or a state government
upon the individual, even though to promote some governmental policy, relieves him from the taxation by the
other of his property or business used or carried on in
the enjoyment of the privilege or of the profits derived
from it. Susquehanna Power Co. v. Tax Commission, 283
U.S. 291; Fox Film Corp. v. Doyal, 286 U.S. 123; Broad
River Power Co. v. Query, 288 U.S. 178, 180.
The fact that the license is used also as a means of
government control of appellant's business does not call
for a different conclusion. The national government has
not assumed to tax the business or to exercise any control
over the taxation of it by the state. The state does not
tax the license itself and the tax upon petitioner's business, applied without discrimination to all similar businesses whether licensed or not, does not impair the control
which the federal authority has chosen to exert. The
mere extension of control over a business by the national
government does not withdraw it from a local tax which
presents no obstacle to the execution of the national
policy. Compare Susquehanna Power Co. v. Tax Commission, supra; Broad River Power Co. v. Query, supra.
See Wiicuts v. Bunn, 282 U.S. 216, 226, 230.
Affirmed.

