OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

UNITED STATES v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC
MANUFACTURING CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 171.

Argued December 15, 18, 1933.-Decided February 12,
1934.

1. As a general rule, where the legislation dealing with a particular
subject consists of a system of related general provisions indicative of a settled policy, new enactments of a fragmentary nature
on that subject are to be taken as intended to fit into the existing system and to be carried into effect conformably to it, excepting as a different purpose is plainly shown. P. 396.
2. A manufacturer from whom money had been collected as taxes
on account of sales of his products, upon the erroneous assumption that the articles sold were automobile parts or acceessories
and the sales therefore taxable under Revenue Acts, 1924, § 600
(3) and 1918 and 1921, § § 900 (3), was entitled to a refund of
the amount collected; but by Revenue Act, 1928, § 424, the right
is qualified, if suit was not begun before April 3, 1928, by the
condition that the burden of the illegal tax must be shown to rest
upon the manufacturer alone and not upon the purchaser. Pp.
392-395.
3. Section 424, subdivision (a)(2) of the Act of 1928, in providing
as to such cases that "no refund shall be made" unless it be established "to the satisfaction of the Commissioner" that the amount
was not collected, directly or indirectly, from the purchaser, or if so
collected has been returned to the purchaser, did not depart from
the general system whereby a claim for a refund, having been duly
but unsuccessfully urged before the Commissioner, may be fully
and finally adjudicated in court; its effect was to add a new element
in the right to refund-the non-shifting of the tax burden-which
must be set up and proved as an element of the claim or cause
of action, whether the proceeding be before the Commissioner or,
subsequently, in court. P. 397.
4. The provision that this additional element is to be " established
to the satisfaction of the Commissioner " does not mean that his
* Together with No. 196, American Chain Co., Inc. v. Eaton, Collector, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit; and No. 329, Routzahn, Collector, v. Willard Storage Battery
Co., certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

Syllabus.

decision shall be final, but is rather an admonition that the additional element is not lightly to be inferred but is to be established
by proof that convinces in the sense of inducing belief. Williamsport Wire Rope Co. v. United States, 277 U.S. 551, distinguished.
P. 397.
5. To warrant a judgment for the taxpayer in a suit for a refund
of taxes of the designated class, the element added by subdivision
(a) (2) supra,-i.e., that the tax burden is on the manufacturer
and not on the purchaser-must be pleaded and proved and determined in his favor like other elements of the cause of action.
P. 400.
6. In such a suit, the court, whether the District Court or the Court
of Claims, can not render judgment for a refund subject to the
condition that the claimant prove to the Commissioner that he
alone has borne the burden of the tax. P. 400.
7. A conditional judgment would not be within the jurisdiction of
the District Court, as limited by the Constitution. P. .400.
8. The statutes defining the jurisdiction of the District Courts and
Court of Claims in suits of this class contemplate that their
judgments shall fully and finally determine whether the claimants
are entitled to the refunds for which they sue. P. 401.
9. The operation of subdivision (a)(2) of § 424 of the Revenue Act
of 1928, is the same when the suit for refund is against the United
States and when it is against the Collector. P. 403.
10. An Act of Congress providing that manufacturers who have been
forced to pay erroneous nd illegal taxes on sales shall have no
refund unless they show that the burden of the taxes has not
been shifted to the purchasers or unless they give bond to use
the refunded money in reimbursing purchasers, does not infringe
their rights under the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment
when applied to taxes which under the prior law were recoverable
by the manufacturers without such conditions, 'n suits already
pending when the Act was passed. If the tax burden has been
shifted to the purchasers, they and not the manufacturers are
the real parties in interest. P. 401
11. Statutes providing for refunds of taxes and for suits therefor,
proceed on the same equitable principles that underlie an action
in assumpsit for money had and received. P. 402.
12. If a manufacturing company, by its invoice, represented to its
purchaser that the amount shown thereon included the sales tax
as well as the selling price, and if it returned that amount less
the tax as the selling price, and caused the tax to be computed
on that basis, it can not be heard to sad, in the
absence of other

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Statement of the Case.

291 Us.

controlling circumstances, that it did not collect the tax from the
purchaser but itself bore the burden thereof. P. 405.
13. Uncertainty and apparent conflict in findings of the Court of
Claims may necessitate a reversal of the judgment and remand of
the cause for a new trial and full and specific findings. P. 406.
14. In a law case tried to the Distric Court without a jury, a motion
by the defense for judgment on all the evidence is rightly overruled
if there is substantial evidence fairly tending to establish every
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. P. 407.
15. Upon appeal-from the District Court, sitting in a law case without a jury, it is, beyond the province of the appellate court to
rexan ine the evidence and reverse the judgment because of what
it regards as error of fact. Id.
16. A finding that the plaintiff had sustained the burden of proof
as to a designated issue, held inadequate as a finding of the facts
involved in the issue and insufficient to support the judgment,
P. 408.
17. Where a manufacturer's collections from purchasers were at the
former prices but the invoices indicated that part of the amounts
charged represented the tax on the sales and the remainder the
"real sales price," and the tax was computed and paid by the
manufacturer on the latter basis, thereby saving to itself the difference between the tax on the full amount and the tax on the
"real sales price," it is a sound finding that the tax was collected
from the purchasers; but to say that as the price theretofore in
vogue was reduced by the amount of the tax, the manufacturer, in
effect, returned the tax to the purchasers, is not a finding but an
illogical argument. ' P. 409.
18. Where judgments of the District Court had been reversed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals on untenable grounds but were
erroneous because of insufficiencies of the special findings, held
that the judgments of both courts should be reversed and the
suits remanded to the District Court with directions to vacate its
findings and grant new trials. P. 410.
69 Ct. Cls. 150; 38 F. (2d) 139; 2 F.Supp. 778, reversed.
58 F. (2d) 246, 248 (D.C.), and 63 F. (2d) 783 (C.CA.), reversed.
65 F. (2d) 89 (C.C.A.), reversed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 607, ,612, to review a judgment of
the Court of Claims sustaining a' claim of the Jefferson
Electric Manufacturing Company and dismissing a counterclaim; a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

the Second Circuit reversing three judgments recovered
by the Chain Company in the District Court for Connecticut; and a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit, affirming five judgments recovered
by the Storage Battery Company in the District Court
for the Northern District of Ohio, Eastern Division.
All of the claims were for refunds of taxes collected on
sales.
Assistant Attorney General Wideman, with whom
Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Erwin N. Griswold,
J. Louis Monarch, Francis H. Horan, and John R. Fillman were on the brief, for petitioners in Nos. 171 and
329, and respondent in No. 196.
Mr. Newton K. Fox, with whom Mr. Adrian C. Humphreys was on the brief, for respondent in No. 171.
Messrs. David S. Day and Chester I. Long, with whom
Messrs. Peter Q. Nyce, Charles P. Swindler, and Samuel
W. McIntosh were on the brief, for petitioner in No. 196.
Mr. Charles C. Norris, Jr., with whom Mr. Augustus B.
Stoughton was on the brief, for respondent in No. 329.
By leave of Court, Mr. George M. Morris filed a brief as
amicus curiae.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These are actions at law brought-in one instance
against the United States and in two against a revenue
collector-to recover in each instance money alleged to
have been erroneously and illegally exacted as an excise
tax-under subdivision 3 of § 900 of the Revenue Acts
of 19181 and 1921 2 and subdivision 3 of § 600 of the
'C. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1122.
'C. 136, 42 Stat. 227, 291.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Revenue Act of 1924 3-from the plaintiff, a corporate
manufacturer, on sales by it of articles which the revenue
officers regarded as automobile parts or accessories.
In No. 171 ' the Court of Claims awarded the plaintiff
$20,017.58 with interest and denied a counterclaim interposed by the United States. In No. 196' the District
Court for the District of Connecticut gave the plaintiff
judgments on three claims for $329,250.00, $170,470.36
and $98,416.41 with interest on each sum; and the judgments were reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals."
In No. 329 ' the District Court for the Northern District of Ohio rendered judgments for the plaintiff on five
claims' for $89,195.36, $249,275.32, $189,853.88, $173,934.45 and $41,764.57 with interest on each sum; and the
judgments were affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 10 The cases are here on certiorari.
After the taxes were collected, timely applications, for
refund were duly made by the plaintiffs, and the applications were denied. The actions were brought within the
time generally limited therefor, 1 but not prior to April
30, 1928.
The applications for refund and the actions proceeded
on the theory that the sales were not taxable under the
Revenue Acts because the articles sold were not automobile parts or accessories within the meaning of those acts,
- 0. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 322.
'69 Ct. Cls. 150; 38 F. (2d) 139; 2 F.Supp. 778.
'58 F. (2d) 246, 248.
' Each claim was asserted in a separate suit, but the suits were tried
together and after judgment were consolidated for purposes of appeal.
'63 F. (2d) 783.
'For opinion overruling motion to dismiss action see 8 Am. Fed.
Tax Reports 11274.
' Here again the several claims were asserted in separate suits, but
the suits were tried together and after judgment were consolidated for
purposes of appeal.
F. (2d) 89.
1126 U.S,C. § 156.
1065

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
Opinion of the Court.

386

and not on the theory that the amount collected was in
excess of what was properly collectible on taxable sales.
In each case the court's authority to entertain the
action and the plaintiff's right to recover were challenged
in various ways as precludea by § 424 of the Revenue
Act of 1928,"2 which provides:

"Sec. 424.

REFUND OF AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES TAX.

(a) No refund shall be made of any amount paid by or
collected from any manufacturer, producer, or importer
in respect of the tax imposed by subdivision (3) of section 600 of the Revenue Act of 1924, or subdivision (3)
of section 900 of the Revenue Act of 1921 or of the
Revenue Act of 1918, unless either(1) Pursuant to a judgment of a court in an action
duly begun prior to April 30, 1928; or
(2) It is established to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that such amount was in excess of the amount
properly payable upon the sale or lease of an article
subject to tax, or that such amount was not collected,
directly or indirectly, from the purchaser or lessee, or
that such amount, although collected from the purchaser
or lessee, was returned to him; or
(3) The Commissioner certifies to the proper disbursing officer that such manufacturer, producer, or importer
has filed with the Commissioner, under regulations prescribed by the Commissioner with the approval of the
Secretary, a bond in such sum and with such sureties as
the Commissioner deems necessary, conditioned upon the
immediate repayment to the United States of such portion of the amount refunded as is not distributed by such
manufacturer, producer, or importer, within six months
after the date of the payment of the refund, to the persons who purchased for purposes. of consumption
(whether from such manufacturer, producer, importer,
or from any other person) the articles in respect of which
UC.

852, 45 Stat. 791, 866; 26 U.S.C. § 2424.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the refund is made, as evidenced by the affidavits (in
such form and containing such statements as the Commissioner may prescribe) of such purchasers, and that
such bond, in the case of a claim allowed after February
28, 1927, was filed before the allowance of the claim by
the Commissioner."
As respects actions brought on or after April 30, 1928,
to recover taxes charged to have been wholly invalid and
not merely in excess of what was lawful, which is the
situation here, the construction and application of § 424,
particularly subdivision (a) (2), are matters about which
there has been much contrariety of opinion, as is shown
in three lines of decision.
The decisions in the first line regard subdivision (a)
(2) as committing all claims for the refunding of taxes
of the class in question here to the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue for final determination and precluding
any examination of such claims in the courts. This view
has been taken by District Judges in two cases" and
by a 4 Circuit Judge in a dissenting opinion in another
1
case.
The decisions in the second line are to the effect that
the subdivision relates to administrative action by the
Commissioner, but not to proceedings in the courts, and
leaves a taxpayer who has applied to the Commissioner
unsuccessfully free to sue on his claim and the courts
free to entertain the suit and adjudicate the claim-as
could be and commonly was done before § 424 was enacted-save that under that section a judgment for the
taxpayer in a suit brought on or after April 30, 1928, does
not become obligatory or entitle him to the refund
. Sterling Spring Co. v. Routzahn, VIII-2 Int. Rev. Cum.
Bull.
258; Twentieth Century Manufacturing Co. v. Hopkins, X-2 Int.

Rev. Cum. Bull. 408.
" McCaitghn v. Electric Storage Battery Co., 63 F. (2d) 715, 718719.

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

awarded by the judgment, unless and until (y) he satisfies the Commissioner that the tax was not collected directly or indirectly from the purchasers of the articles
sold, or if so collected has been returned to the purchasers, or (z) gives the bond described in subdivision
(a) (3). Such has been the ruling in two cases. In one
the ruling was by the District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania,' and the Circuit Court of Appeals
for that circuit substantially sustained it, and in that
connection said,1" "This section clearly refers to a 'refund' of taxes by the Commissioner, and nowhere refers
to the plaintiff's right of action to recover taxes by litigation nor to the jurisdiction of the court. In other
words, ,this section is an administrative measure for the
guidance of the Commissioner in the 'refund' of taxes,
and does not purport to contain any provision prescribing
conditions under which taxes may be collected by means
of a suit." The other case is No. 329 now under review,
where the ruling was by the District Court for the Northern District of Ohio 1 and was fully sustained by the
Electric Storage Battery Co. v. McCaughn, 52 F. (2d) 205.
"McCaughn v. Electric Storage Battery Co., 63 F. (2d) 715, 718.
" For opinion overruling preliminary motion to dismiss, see Willard
Storage Battery Co. v. Routzahn, Collector, 8 Am. Fed. Tax Rep.
11274. After the hearing on the merits the court, in rendering judgment for the plaintiff, said:

"The objection to the court's jurisdiction founded on sec. 424 ...
has heretofore been ruled on. There is an error in that opinion where
it is said that any refund after judgment would be pursuant to sub
(3) of sec. 424 and would be conditional and for the benefit of consumers. If refunds are made, they may be under either sub (2) or
(3), depending upon whether the plaintiff bore the tax or passed it
on, etc. Those are matters for the Commissioner to decide; the court
has nothing to do with them, and no evidence respecting them was
offered.
"According to two recent decisions of the Court of Claims . . .the

absence of such evidence should prevent recovery. But with great
respeqt, I am unable to agree with the holdings on that point. I still

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Circuit Court of Appeals for that circuit, as is shown by
the following excerpts from its opinion: 18
"Section 424(a) deals not with rights of action, but
with limitations upon the power of the commissioner to
make refunds. Its provisions are not in conflict with the
general provisions of law authorizing suits for refund of
taxes. [Citing cases.]
"We agree with the authorities above cited, not only
in reliance upon familiar principles governing repeal by
implication, but also because the section appears to us
to have an obvious literal meaning perfectly applicable
to refunds by the commissioner after judicial determination of the legality of the tax.
"If the claim for refund is made pursuant to a judgment of the court in an action begun prior to April 30,
1928, the commissioner is not forbidden to refund under
the applicable statute, and this may well be without qualification, although this we are not required to decide.
Failing to bring himself within the condition of paragraph
1, because of not having pursued his claim to judgment
in an action begun prior to the critical date, the taxpayer
must establish to the statisfaction of the commissioner . . . (b) that such amount was not collected directly or indirectly from the purchasers, or (c) that such
amount, although collected from the purchasers, was
returned to them."
The decisions in the third line, like those in the second,
regard the subdivision as neither cutting off the right of
think it is for the Commissioner alone to determine the facts necessary
to be established as the basis of refunds under either sub (2) or (3).
Where as here, taxes on sales not taxable have been collected, then on
proof to the satisfaction of the Commissioner 'that such amount was
not collected, directly, or indirectly, from the purchaser or lessee,' or
if collected has been returned, they may be refunded."
"Routzahn v. Willard Storage Battery Co., 65 F. (2d) 89.

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

395

Opinion of the Coirt.

a taxpayer to sue for a refund after applying unsuccessfully to the Commissioner nor abrogating the authority of
the courts to entertain the suit. But, unlike those in the
second, they regard the subdivision as substantively limiting the right to a refund of taxes of the designated class to
instances where the taxpayer either has not directly or indirectly collected the tax from the purchaser or after so
collecting it has returned it to him. In other words, they
regard the subdivision as making this substantive limitation an element of the right to a refund of such taxes, and
therefore as requiring that this element, like others, be
satisfactorily established in any proceedings where an
asserted right to a refund is presented for examination
and determination, whether the proceeding be before the
Commissioner or be a suit brought after an application to
him has been unavailing. The Court of Claims has so
ruled in two cases,1" one being No. 171 now under review;
and the District Court for the District of Connecticut
came to a like conclusion in No. 19620 also now under
review.
We are of opinion that the view taken in the third
line of decisions is right.
When § 424 was enacted the internal revenue laws contained many related provisions constituting what this
Court has termed a comprehensive "system of corrective
justice" in respect of the assessment and collection of
erroneous or illegal taxes.2 ' A summary of this systemit still is part of the internal revenue laws-will' portray
it sufficiently for present purposes. Anterior to collection
the Commissioner possesses exclusive authority to revise,
correct or reject assessments and the courts are forbidden
"Boyle Valve Co. v. United States, 69 Ct. Cls. 129; 38 F. (2d) 135;
Jefferson Electric Mfg. Co. v. United States, 69 Ct. Cls. 158, 38 F.
(2d) 139.
'American Chain Co. v. Eaton, 58 F. (2d) 246; id., 248.
' Dodge v. Osborn, 240 U.S. 118, 120-121.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

to entertain suits "to restrain the assessment or collection." After collection aggrieved taxpayers are accorded
a limited time within which to apply for refunds, and the
Commissioner is authorized to gralit the applications
where the taxes are shown to have been erroneous or.
illegal; but a denial by him is not final. If the application is either denied or not acted on by the Commissioner
the taxpayer is accorded a fixed period within which to
bring suit for. a refund against the United States or the
collector who received the tax, and if in the suit he establishes that the tax was erroneous or invalid, that it was
paid by him, and that his claim has been duly and seasonably presented and prosecuted, he is entitled to2 judgment
for a refund of the amount paid with interest.
As a general rule, where the legislation dealing with a
particular subject consists of a system of related general
provisions indicative of a settled policy, new enactments
of a fragmentary nature on that subject are to be taken
as intended to fit into the existing system and to be 1carried into effect conformably to it, excepting as a different
purpose is plainly shown.23
That rule is applicable here. The existing system developed through long years of experience comprehends the
entire subject, including all claims for refund. Section
424 is a new enactment and relates to a designated class
of such claims, concededly within the scope of the exist26 U.S.C. §§ 149, 154, 156, 157; 28 U.S.C. §§ 41 (5) (20), 250 (1),
284, 285, 286, 842; 31 U.S.C. § 225; Philadelphiav. Collector, 5 Wall.
720, 731-733; Nichols v. United States, 7 Wall. 122, 130-131; Cheatham v. Norvekl, 92 U.S. 85, 88-90; United States v. Hvoslef, 237
U.S. 1, 10; United States v. Realty Co., 237 U.S. 28, 31-32; Sage v.
United States, 250 U.S. 33, 38-39; Moore Ice Cream Co. v. Rose, 289
U.S. 373.
United States v. Barnes, 222 U.S. 513, 520, and cases cited;
United States v. Sweet, 245 U.S. 563, 572; Panama R. Co. v. Johnson,
264 U.S. 375; 384.

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

ing system. Obviously the section is intended to make
some change as respects the particular class and must be
given effect accordingly; but to determine what change
is intended it must be examined in the light of the existing system.
As respects claims of the designated class § 424 plainly
prescribes, in subdivision (a) (2), an additional substantive element of the right to a refund-the additional element being that the taxpayer has not directly or indirectly
collected the tax from the purchaser, or, after so collecting
it, has returned it to him, so that the burden of the tax has
been borne by the taxpayer and not the purchaser. Of
subdivision (a) (3) it suffices to observe that it enables a
taxpayer who has not borne, the burden of the tax but has
collected it from purchasers, and so is not entitled to a
refund under subdivision (a) (2), to obtain from the Commissioner a qualified refund by giving a bond promptly to
use the amount refunded in reimbursing the purchasers.
No such bond has been given in the cases now before us
and in all the right to judgment for a refund is rested on
other facts independently of that.
Apart from the change already described we think subdivision (a) (2) discloses no purpose to depart from the
existing system, It does not purport to commit the decision of claims for r6fund exclusively to the Commissioner, or to give finality to his denials, or to take from
aggrieved claimants the right to sue on their claims after
denial or inaction by himn, orto withdraw from the courts
the power to entertain such suits. As to these matters,
therefore, the rules prescribed in the existing system remain, as before, both applicable and controlling.
The clause in that subdivision saying the additional
element to which it relates is to be "established to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner" is much relied on; but
we thi ik itdoes not require a different conclusion. Only

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

by inadmissible straining could it be held to invest the
Commissioner with absolute authority or discretion in respect of such refunds. A more rational view is that it
is largely admonitive and means that the additional element is not lightly to be inferred but to be established
by proof which convinces in the sense of inducing belief.
Such words often are so construed where applied to one
who, like the Commissioner, is charged with the duty of
ascertaining a matter of fact as a basis for further action.2'
While the clause speaks only of the Commissioner,. this
becomes of minor significance when it is reflected that
under the existing system he is the one to whom all claims
for refund must be presented and on whom the duty of
making an examination and decision is primarily placed,
and that it doubtless was assumed-rightly we thinkthat under that system a taxpayer could by suit secure a
judicial reexamination of his claim, and, if he did, the
claim necessarily would be judged by the same substantive standards as if it were before the Commissioner. We
say "necessarily," because subdivision (a) (2) says at
the outset "No refund shall be made of any amount
paid . . . unless," etc., and thus shows that it is to be
applied by all who examine and determine claims for
refunds--the courts as well as the Commissioner.
This view of the words "established to the satisfaction
of the Commissioner" has support in a long continued
practice under a similar provision in a customs law of
1864 25 under which certain customs duties, if paid under
protest, were to be refunded to the importer when
"shown to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the Treas'Bryan v. Moore, 81 Ind. 9, 11-13; Kenyon v. Mondovi, 98 Wis.
50, 54; 73 N.W. 314; Callan v. Hanson, 86 Iowa 420, 423; 53 N.W.
282; Sams Automatic Car Coupler Co. v. League, 25 Colo. 129, 135;
54 Pac. 642; Walker v. Collins, 59 Fed. 70, 74.
C. 171, § 16, 13 Stat. 215, § 30121/2 Rev. Stat.

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

399

Opinion of the Court.

ury" to have been excessive.

That provision remained

6

in force many years," and during that period was uniformly treated as neither investing the Secretary with
final authority nor putting aside general provisions permitting suits for refunds, but as leaving the importer
free, after an unavailing appeal to the Secretary, to sue
under the general provisions and obtain a judicial

reexamination of his claim.2"

Some 'reliance is placed on Williamsport Wire Rope
Co. v. United States, 277 U.S. 551; but that case is not
in point. It was a suit for the refiunding of excess-profits
and war-profits taxes assessed under § 301 of the Revenue Act of 1918, and the question presented was whether
in such a suit a refusal by the Commissioner to make a
special assessment under §§ 327 (a) and (d) and 328 was
open to rexamination. In answering the question in the
negative, this Court referred to the purpose with which
those sections provide for a special assessment, thelanguage employed in expressing the conditions under
which it is to be made, and the prescribed procedure;
pointed o.ut that the task involved is onerequiring technical or special knowledge' and experience in respect of
such tax problems and ready access to data in the Bureau
of Internal Revenue relating to a large group of taxpayers; and held that these exceptional conditions enforce the conclusion that Congress intended to confide
the task to the Commissioner, subject only to a review by
the Board of Tax Appeals Where a direct appeal to that
body is permitted, and thereby to exclude a reexamination in the courts such as in. other situations is had in
suits for refunds. It is very plain that no such excep- See c. 407, § 29, 26 Stat. 142; c. 6, § 28, 36 Stat. 104.

"zSee Arnson v. Murphy, 109 US. 238; Hager v. Swayne, 149 U.S.
242; Schoenfeld v. Hendrizks, 152 U.S. 691, 693; White v. Arthur,
10 Fed. 80, 88.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

tional conditions are involved in giving effect to
subdivision (a) (2) of § 424.
As to the effect to be given to that subdivision in suits
for refunds, we are of opinion that, as it makes the right
to a refund to depend on an additional element-that the
taxpayer has not collected the tax, directly or indirectly,
from the purchaser, or, if it was so collected, has returned
it to him-the courts in adjudicating claims of the designated class are under a duty to give effect to the subdivision by regarding the additional element as a matter to be
shown by suitable allegation and established by appropriate proof, like other elements of such a right or cause of
action, and by determining the sufficiency of pleadings
28
and evidence accordingly.
We cannot assent to the view that a court may give a
judgment awarding the taxpayer a refund without inquiring whether he has borne the burden of the tax or has reimbursed himself by collecting it from the purchaser.
That view rests on two untenable premises-one that the
question whether the burden of the tax has thus been
borne by the taxpayer is solely for administrative solution,
and the other that a judgment for a refund may be given
subject to the condition that' it is to become obligatory
and be given effect only if and when the claimant proves
to the Commissioner that he alone has borne the burden
of the tax. Our reasons for rejecting the first premise
already have been shown. Those for rejecting the other
will be shortly stated. A judgment so conditioned is
merely a finding that the tax paid by the claimant was
invalid, coupled with a 'declaration that it should be refunded to him if he proves to the Commissioner that in
other respects he is entitled to it. Decisions of this Court
have long since established that it is not within the province of courts created by or under the judiciary article of
" Kings County Savings Institution v. Blair, 116 U.S. 200, 205-206.

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

Opinion of the Cort.

the Constitution to give or review judgments of that character, for they ere not final or binding adjudications."9
The District Courts are created and exist under that
article. While the Court of Claims is created under a
different article, the statute defining its jurisdiction of
suits for refunds and those defining the jurisdiction of the

District Courts are alike, in that both contemplate that
the judgments in such suits shall fully and finally deter-

mine whether the claimants are entitled to the refunds for
which they sue.
The contention is niade that subdivision (a) (2), when
construed and applied as we hold it should be, infringes
the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution in that it strikes down rights accrued theretofore and still subsisting,' but not sued on prior to April
30, 1928. This contention is pertinent, because the cases
now being considered were begun after April 30, 1928,
and in each the tax in question was paid before § 424 was
enacted, which was May 29, 1928.
If the tax was erroneous and illegal, as is alleged, it
must be conceded that, under the system then in force,
there accrued to the taxpayer when he paid the tax a
right to have it refunded without any showing as to
whether he bore the burden of the tax or shifted it to the
purchasers. And it must be conceded -also that § 424
applies to rights accrued theretofore and still subsisting,
but not sued on prior to April 30, 1928, and subjects them
to the restriction that the taxpayer (a) must show that
he alone has borne the burden of the tax, or (b), if he
has shifted the burden to the purchasers, must give a
-bond promptly to use the refunded sum in reimbursing
'Hayburn's Case 2 Dall. 409 and note; United States v. Ferreira,
la How. 40 and note; Gordon v. United States, 2 Wall. 561; same case,
117 U.S. 697; United States v. Jones, 119 U.S. 477 i In re Sanborn,
148 U.S. 222; La Abra Silver Mining Co. v. United Stat".8, 175 U.$,
423, 456-457; Muskrat v. United States, 219 U3.8. 306,

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

them. But it cannot be conceded that in .imposing this
restriction the section strikes down prior rights, or does
more than to require that it be shown or made certain
that the money when refunded will go to the one who has
borne the burden of the illegal tax, and therefore is
entitled in justice and good conscience to such relief.
This plainly is but another way of providing that the
money shall go to the one who has been the actual sufferer and therefore is the real party in interest.
We do not perceive in the restriction any infringement
of due process of law. If the taxpayer has borne the
burden of the tax, he readily can show it; and certainly
there is nothing arbitrary in requiring that he make such
a showing. If he has shifted the burden to the purchasers, they and not he have been the actual sufferers
and are the real parties in interest; and in such a situation there is nothing arbitrary in requiring, a§ a condition
to refunding the tax to him, that he give a bond to use
the refunded money in reimbursing them. Statutes made
applicable to existing claims or causes of action and requiring that suits be brought by the real rather than the
nominal party in interest have been uniformly sustained
when challenged as infringing the contract and due process clauses of the Constitution.
The present contention is particularly faulty in that
it overlooks the fact that the statutes providing for refunds and for suits on claims therefor proceed on the
same equitable principles that underlie an action in assumpsit for money had and received. Of such an action
it rightly has been said: "
"This is often called an equitable action and is less
restricted and fettered by technical rules and formalities
Claflin v. Godfrey, 38 Mass. 1, 6. To the same effect are Steuerwald v. Richter, 158 Wis. 597, 604; 149 N.W. 692; Sanford v. First
National Bank, 238 Fed. 298, 301; Portsmouth Cotton Oil Corp. v.
Fourth National Bank, 280 Fed. 879, 882.

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

than any other form of action. It aims at the abstract
justice of the case, and looks solely to the inquiry, whether
the defendant holds money, which ex cxquo et bono belongs to the plaintiff. It was encouraged and, to a great
extent, brought into use by that great and just judge,
Lord Mansfield, and from his day to the present, has been
constantly resorted to in all cases coming within its broad
principles. It approaches nearer to a bill in equity than
any other common law action."
As our conclusion respecting the operation of subdivision (a) (2) is applicable both where the suit for a refund is against the United States and where it is against
the collector, there is no need for considering the arguments advanced concerning the power of Congress to condition or withdraw the consent of the United States to
be sued. 3'
We come now to consider and dispose of the three
cases and to apply to them our conclusions respecting
the construction and operation of subdivision (a) (2) of
§ 424.
No. 171.
In the petition the plaintiff alleged that it absorbed the
taxes in question and paid the same from its own funds;
that no other person or persons paid the same either directly or indirectly; and that no other person or persons
has any right either at law or in equity to the refund
sought or any part of it. The defendant's answer was a
general traverse accompanied by a counter-claim based
on an alleged allowance and payment to the plaintiff,
through error and mistake, of certain claims for the re"See Darrington v. Bank of Alabama, 13 How. 12, 17;
Arkansas, 20 How. 527, 529; In re Ayers, 123 U.S. 443, 505;
Louisiana, 134 U.S. 1, 17-18; United States v. Heinszen &
U.S. 370, 391 (Harlan, J.); Graham & Foster v. Goodcell,
409, 430-431.

Beers v.
Hans v.
Co., 206
282 U.S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

funding of like taxes aggregating $69,264.66. The Court
of Claims made special findings of fact whereon it gave
judgment for the plaintiff. The findings show that the
taxes in question were assessed on sales by the plaintiff
of ignition coils which the revenue officers regarded as
parts or accessories for automobiles, but which the court
regarded as equally adapted to other uses not comprehended in the taxing acts; and that the taxing period in
question began with Mar, 1919, and continued to the end
of February, 1926. Perinent portions of the findings are
as follows:
"7. For the taxable period in question . . .plaintiff,
in the sale of ignition coils, invoiced its catalogue prices
to all customers, and did not add thereto any amounts
representing excise taxes, or collect from its customers
amounts additional to the catalogue prices. The catalogue prices so invoiced and collected were transferred by
plaintiff to its general ledger account in totals without
separation into any elements, such as tax, charges for
parcel post, insurance. The excise tax which it considered
payable was set up in an additional account styled ' Excise
Tax Expense.'
"8. For a part of the taxable periods in question plaintiff made on its invoices to customers certain notations
with respect to the excise tax which it considered applicable.
"Up to May 19, 1923, plaintiff made no such notations
on its invoices to customers.
" Beginning May 19, 1923, up to December 29, 1925,
it was plaintiff's practice to note on its invoices to customers the following: 'On automotive accessories 1/21
of amount indicated herein equals 5% excise tax. 20/21
of amount indicated equal price,' during the period when
the 5% tax rate was in effect, and substantially the same
notatiQn during the period when the 21/2% rate was in
effect, '1/21' being changed to '1/41' and '20/21' to

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

405

Opinion of the Court.

'40/41.' It does not definitely appear what the practice
was thereafter as to notations on invoices.
"9. Plaintiff's catalogue prices were not increased or
decreased by reason of the imposition of the excise tax
on automobile parts or accessbries.
"10. It is not possible from the state of the record to
determine the amount of excise tax paid for the period
when plaintiff made the aforesaid tax notations on invoices sent to its customers."
These findings, which are all that bear on the question
of who paid the taxes and bore the burden thereof, are
wanting in precision and apparently conflicting. If findings 7 and 9 were not otherwise qualified they might be
regarded as meaning that the sales were at catalogue prices
and that these prices did not include, and the purchasers
did not pay, the tax or any part of it. But finding 8
makes it at least doubtful that findings 7 and 9 have
that meaning, for it is plainly inferable from finding 8
that during much of the taxing period the plaintiff sold
on invoices bearing -notations indicating that when the
tax was 5% of the selling price 1/21 of the amount shown
on the invoice represented the tax and 20/21 represented
the selling price; and that when the tax was 2/2% of the
selling price the fractions were changed to 1/41 and
40/41. The findings leave it uncertain whether the
plaintiff in making its returns to the revenue officers gave
the amount shown on the invoices or 20/21 (later 40/41)
of that amount as the selling price; and they also leave
it uncertain on which basis the tax was computed. If
by its invoices the plaintiff represented to its purchasers
that the amount shown thereon included the tax as well
as the selling price, and if it returned that amount less the
tax as the selling price, and caused the tax to be computed
on that basis, it can not be heard to say, in the absence
of other controlling circumstances of which there is no

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

finding, that it did not collect the tax from the purchasers
but itself bore the burden thereof.
Because of the uncertainty and apparent conflict in the
'findings the judgment must be reversed and the cause
remanded to the Court of Claims for a new trial and
full and specific findings.
No. 196.
This case comprises- three separate suits, designated in
the District Court as Nos. 3360, 3371 and 3421, which were
tried together and, after judgments for the plaintiff, were
consolidated for purposes of appeal. They were tried to
the court under a stipulation in writing waiving a jury.
The court made special findings of fact on which it based
its judgments. In the complaints the plaintiff alleged
that the tax was not paid directly or indirectly by the
purch': ,,u2, but entirely by the plaintiff; that the sales
were at a flat price and no amount for the tax was included
therein; and that the plaintiff absorbed the tax. These
allegations and some others were denied by the defendant
in his answer. In various ways the defendant challenged
the plaintiff's right to sue for a refund and the court's
power to entertain such a suit, the challenge being
grounded on subdivision (a) (2) of § 424; and the court
held the challenge was not tenable. At the conclusion of
the evidence the defendant moved for judgments thereon
in his favor, and the motion was denied.
The Circuit Court of Appeals reexamined the evidence,
concluded therefrom, contrary to 'the findings of the District Court, that the articles on sales of which the tax was
assessed were accessories for the taxable vehicles enumerated in the taxing acts, and on that ground sustained
the tax and reversed the judgments, without considering
the rulings relating to subdivision (a) (2) of § 424.
The questiorls presented for consideration here are those
involved in the rulings of the District Court and that involved in the reversal by the Circuit Court of Appeals on

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

a reexamination of the evidence. The challenge of the
plaintiff's right to sue for a refund and of the court's power
to entertain such a suit was rightly overruled. This -is
sufficiently shown in the earlier part of this opinion.
Whether the District Court erred in denying the defendant's motion at the conclusion of the evidence for judgments thereon in his favor must be determined by ascertaining whether there was substantial evidence fairly tending to establish every element of the plaintiff's causes of
action. We think there was such evidence. There was
conflict in it; parts of it admitted of diverging inferences;
and as to some matters the preponderating weight wa§
difficult of ascertainment. But these were all matfirs
for the trial court to determine. It was exercising the
functions of a jury and its findings are on the same plane
as if embodied in a jury's special verdict.2 We are accordingly of opinion that the motion was rightly overruled, and that the Circuit Court of Appeals erred in not
so holding. Even if there was some basis for thinking the
weight of the evidence was with the defendant, as was
strongly urged at our bar, it was not within the province
of that court to reexamine the evidence and reverse the
judgments because of what it regarded as error of fact. 3
Whether the special findings give the requisite support
to the judgments rendered thereon is a different question
and is one which is open to consideration here." The
findings are long and the view which we take of one of
them makes it unnecessary to state the others. The one
relates to the matter made essential by subdivision (a) (2)
of § 424, and is the only finding on the subject. It reads
as follows:
28 U.S.C. § 773; Copelin v. Insurance Co., 9 Wall. 461; Dooley

v. Pease, 180 U.S. 126, 131.
"28 U.S.C. § 879; Martinton v. Fairbanks, 112 U.S. 670, 672;
Davis v. Schwartz, 155 U.S. 631, 636; Law v. United States, 266
U.S. 494, 496.
- 28 U.S.C. § 875.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

"Paragraph 5 of the complaint alleged that the taxes in
question were paid entirely by the plaintiff, and neither
directly nor indirectly by the plaintiff's purchasers.
These allegations also were denied.
"As to this issue, I find that for the taxable period involved in case No. 3371, the plaintiff has sustained the
burden of proof. The evidence on this issue relating to
the periods involved in cases Nos. 3360 and 3421, disclosed
that the plaintiff at some time during the period between
January 1 and December 31, 1923, reduced its sale prices
by the amount of the tax and so stamped its invoices and
bills as to indicate that of the amount charged to the customer 1/21 part was required by the sales tax in question.
Thereafter the plaintiff computed and paid the excise tax
upon the basis of the price thus reduced, thereby saving
to itself the payment of a tax upon a tax, 5 per cent on
5 per cent. The arrangement cost the customer nothing,
as he paid in the aggregate just what he had paid before.
Consequently the plaintiff did not thereby pass the economic burden of the tax to its purchasers. However,
since under this arrangement the invoices indicated the
1/21 of the amount billed was for the tax, I am constrained to conclude that the balance, 20/21, was the real
sale price, especially since the tax was thereafter paid on
that basis. This requires the conclusion of fact that in
legal effect the tax was collected from the purchaser.
But in view of the fact that the sales prices in vogue prior
to the inauguration of this arrangement were thereafter
reduced by the amount of the tax, I find further that in so
far as the tax was collected from purchasers, it was wholly
returned to them."
Saying that the plaintiff has sustained the burden of
proof as to the designated issue in suit No. 3371 is not an
adequate finding of the matters of fact involved in that
issue, particularly where, as here, the subject is new and
may admit of differing opinions. It is in the nature of a

U.S. v. JEFFERSON ELECTRIC CO.
386

Opinion of the Court.

legal conclusion rather than a finding of the underlying
facts, and we think it does not adequately respond to the
issue and is not sufficient to support the judgment which
rests on it.
That which follows relates to suits Nos. 3360 and 3421
and evidently means that the plaintiff by its invoices
was indicating to the purchasers that 1/21 of the amount
it was collecting from them represented the tax on the
sales and 20/21 represented its "real sales price "; and
that the plaintiff itself computed the tax on the basis
of this "real sales price" and thereafter paid the tax as
so computed, thereby saving to itself the difference between the tax resulting from that computation and the
tax which would have resulted had the full amount collected from the purchasers been used as the basis for
the computation. If that be what is meant, the court
rightly concluded that the tax was collected from the
purchasers. It is of no importance that the prior sales
price had been reduced by the amount of the tax, for
under the taxing act the tax was to be computed on the
price for which the articles actually were sold and not
on some prior and discarded price. But the court's further conclusion that, as the price theretofore in vogue
was reduced by the amount of the tax, the plaintiff in
effect returned to the purchasers the tax it collected from
them-because they got the articles for a price which
was that much less than it would have been had the
prior sales price been still in vogue-is shown by its
mere statement to be not a finding of fact but unsatisfactory reasoning having little tendency to establish its
objective. That conclusion -must therefore be disregarded. It results that the finding, while showing that
the plaintiff collected the tax from the purchasers, does
not show whether it returned the tax to them. Thus
the finding does not adequately respond to the issue arising on the plaintiff's allegation that it absorbed the

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

tax-for, having collected it from them, the plaintiff
could absorb it only by returning it to them. With that
matter left in this situation the finding plainly does not
support the judgments which rest on it.
As the judgments of the District Court in the three
suits must be reversed because of insufficiencies in the
special findings, and as the reversal by the Circuit Court
of Appeals was put on an untenable ground, we deem it
the better course to enter here a judgment reversing the
judgments of both courts and remanding the suits to the
District Court with a direction to vacate its findings and
grant a new trial in each suit.
No. 329.
This case comprises five separate suits which were tried
together and, after judgments for the plaintiff, were consolidated for purposes of appeal. The trial was to the
court under a written stipulation waiving a jury. The
coturt made special findings and based its judgments on
them. At the outset the plaintiff's right to recover on
the facts stated in the petitions was challenged by the
defendant by motions to dismiss and the motions were
overruled. There were also motions at the close of the
evidence for judgments thereon in favor of the defendant
which also were overruled. These rulings and the suffi.ciency of the facts found to support the judgments are
the matters presented for consideration here. There was
neither allegation nor proof that the plaintiff had not collected the tax from the purchasers, or after so collecting
it had returned it to them; and of course there was no
finding on the subject. The suits proceeded throughout
as if that question was one for administrative solhition
after judgment, if the plaintiff prevailed. What we have
said in the earlier part of this opinion shows that this
was a mistaken theory. The judgments in both courts

BEST v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
386

411

Statement of the Case.

below must be reversed accordingly and the causes remanded to the District Court with directions to set aside
the findings, and to sustain the motions to dismiss-but
without prejudice to the exercise by that court of its
discretion in permitting amendments of the petitions.
Our conclusions in Nos. 171, 196 and 329 when summarized require that the judgments in all be reversed and
the causes remanded with directions as before indicated.
Judgments reversed.
BEST, ADMINISTRATOR, v. DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE COUR' OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 477.

Argued February 9, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

1. To warrant the direction of a verdict for the dfendant on the
opening statement of plaintiff's counsel, it is not enough that the
statement be indefinite; it must clearly appear, after resolving all
doubts and uncertainties in favor of the plaintiff, that no cause of
action exists." P. 415.
2. Where a wharf, for unloading sand, lies adjacent to a public street
from which, for want of a proper fence or barrier, its surface may
be both seen and entered, and when children of tender years,
attracted by the sand piles, are accustomed to enter and use it as a
playground, going in and out at their pleasure, the owner is under
a duty to take reasonable precautions either to prevent such use or
to keep the flooring in repair so that children will not be exposed to
the danger of falling through holes. Railroad Co. v. Stout, 17 Wall.
657; Union Pacific Ry. v. McDonald, 152 U.S. 262, applied.
United Zinc Co. v. Britt, 258 U.S. 268, distinguished. P. 416.
62 App.D.C. 271; 66 F. (2d) 797, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 619, to review a judgment affirming a judgment for the District of Columbia entered on a
directed verdict, in an action for the death of a child,
alleged to have been caused by negligence. The verdict

