PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
610

Syllabus.

Compare Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., 282 U.S. 734,
-738-9; Lambert Run Coal Co. v. Baltimore& Ohio R. Co.,
258 U.S. 377, 382.11 It is sufficient that the extraordinary
remedy of mandamus should be denied, because the
Trustees may by the common remedy of injunction prevent any interference with the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court. Compare Ex parte Park Square Automobile Station, 244 U.S. 412, 414; Ex parte Riddle, 255 U.S.
450; Ex parte Krentler-Arnold Hinge Last Co., 286 U.S.
533. Moreover, the bankruptcy court might, in the exercise of its discretion, conclude that it is desirable to have
the litigation proceed in the state court.12
Rule discharged.
PUGET SOUND POWER & LIGHT CO. v. SEATTLE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 344. Argued January 12, 15, 1934.--Decided March 19, 1934.
1. A tax imposed by a city upon the gross receipts of a private
corporation, engaged in the business of furnishing electric light and
power to consumers for hire, can not be adjudged violative of
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment merely
because the city, under authority from the State, engages in the
same kind of business, in active competition with the private
corporation. P. 623.
2. With respect to such busindss and its taxation, the city and tlie
private corporation are clearly to be classed in different categories,
for reasons that are in no way affected by calling the city's activity
"proprietary" instead of "governmental."
P. 624.
Compare In re 2ehner, 193 Fed. 787; First Trust Co. v. Baylor,
1 F. (2d) 24, 27. See note 12, infra.
McHenry v. La Soci~t6 Francaise, 05 U.S. 58; In re Johnson,
127 Fed. 618; In re Zehner, 193 Fed. 787; First Trust Co. v. Baylor,
1 F. (2d) 24, 27; In re Schulte-United, 50 F. (2d) 243; In re Gas
Products Co., 57 F. (2d) 342; comlare In re Schermerhorn, 145 Fed.
341; In re Locust Bldg., 272 Fed. 988; Field v. Kan&as City Refining
Co., 296 Fed. 800; 9 F. (2d) 213.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

3. The Fourteenth Amendment does not protect private business
from the risk of competition with business carried on by the State
in the exercise of its reserved power. P. 625.
4. Objection to the vagueness and uncertainty of a tax as defined by
a municipal ordinance, held obviated by its practical construction
in this case by a competent administrative officer with the approval
of the state court. Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Seattle,
ante, p. 300. P. 626.
5. Surrender of the power of taxation is not implied in a contract
by a city granting to a public utility the license or franchise to
use the streets for a term of years; and a later ordinance exacting
payment of an annual tax on the gross receipts of the utility
company as a condition precedent to its use of the streets does not
impair the obligation of the contract. P. 627.
172 Wash. 668; 21 P. (2d) 727, affirmed.

APPEAL from the affirmance- of a judgment dismissing
the complaint of the Power & Light Company on demurrer, in a suit to recover the amount of a gross receipts
tax paid to the State, and to enjoin future collections.
Mr. Clarence R. Innis, with whom Messrs. Elmer E.
Todd, Frank E. Holman, and William M. Allen were on

the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. Walter L. Baumgartner and A. C. Van Soelen

for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal under § 237 of the Judicial Code from
a judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington, 172
Wash. 668; 21 P. (2d) 727, sustaining a municipal
license or excise tax, assailed by appellant as infringing
the Fourteenth Amendment and the contract clause of
the Federal Constitution.
An ordinance of the City of Seattle of May 23, 1932,
imposes an annual license tax upon the privilege of carrying on the business of selling or furnishing electric light

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
619

Opinion of the Court.

and power to consumers. The tax, is 3% of the gross
income from the business "in the city" during the fiscal
year next preceding the tax year for which the license is
required. The suit, brought to recover an installment of
the tax already paid and to enjoin the collection of future
installments, was heard and decided upon denurrer to
appellant's complaint.
Both appellant, a Massachusetts corporation, acting
under a municipal franchise, and appellee, the City of
Seattle, acting by state authority, are engaged and actively
compete in the business of furnishing electric light and
power to consumers for hire. By state law the city is
given plenary power to fix rates for the electric current
which it distributes, and its rates are not'subject to regulation and control by the Public Service Commission, as
are those of appellant. § 10390, Remington's Rev. Stat.
of Washington. Revenues of the city from its electric
light business are required by the city charter, Art. VIII,
§ 9, to be deposited in a special" city light fund," separate
from the general funds of the city, and transfer from one
fund to the other, except by direction of the city council,
is forbidden by the city charter. Art. IX, § 17. Section 6
of the ordinance, in terms, imposes the same tax on the
city "so far as permitted by law," as that levied on appellant. But it appears that the city, acting under a state
statute, § 9491, Remington's Rev. Stat. of Washington,
enacted before the taxing ordinance, has issued bonds, the
payment of which, both principal and interest, is secured
by the revenue of its electric light business. Appellant
contends that by the statute, municipal ordinance, and the
terms of the bonds themselves, this pledge is superior to
all other charges upon the gross revenue and that the city
cannot lawfully pay the tax. It appears that in fact the
city has not paid the tax or made any provision for paying
it. The state court, in passing on this question, said:

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

"The city has not allocated, and probably cannot allocate, any of. the revenues of its power and light business
to the payment of such a tax. Bonds have been issued
in excess of $30,000,000 against the revenues from that
business; and those bonds are a prior lien on the entire
income from it-taking precedence even over operating
charges. Conceding that the city's light and power revenues could be subjected to the tax, no machinery is set
up in the ordinance to accomplish such an end. Furthermore, in making up its budget for 1932, no provision
was made for the levy of general taxes to cover the excise
provided for in the ordinance. So the problem must be
met as though § 6 had been omitted from the ordinance;
.. " [p. 671]
Whether by this statement the court intended to decide
that the city could not lawfully pay the tax, or assumed
that to be the case for the purpose of the decision, it is unnecessary to determine, for appellant further insists that
even though the tax were paid by the city to itself it would
impose no actual burden.
Asserting that no effective tax is imposed with respect
to the business carried on by the city, appellant argues
that the taxation of its competing business is a denial
of equal'protection and deprives it of its property without
due process. The tax is also assailed because the measure
of it is vague and uncertain and because, by imposing
a license tax upon the privilege of doing the business,
the ordinance impairs appellant's franchise contract which
gave it the right to conduct the business.
In sustaining the constitutionality of the tax, the state
court found it unnecessary to ascertain whether, under
the city charter and ordinances, and state law, the tax
if paid by the city must be paid from its city light fund
rather than from its general fund, or to what extent
moneys may now or hereafter be transferred from one

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
619

Opinion of the Court.

fund to the other, or how far the general fund raised
by taxation may be used, otherwise, either directly or
indirectly, to aid the city's electric lighting business. We
do not attempt to resolve these questions here. Decision
that the city is not authorized by existing law to aid its
light fund by taxation, without disposing of the constitutional question decided by the state court, would entail the decision of other questions, arising under the
equal protection and contract clauses, not raised or considered in the case. Moreover the appellant insists that
in any case payment of the tax would neither relieve
appellant of its burden nor impose a comparable burden
on the city, since the same hand would both pay and
receive the tax, and there is no constitutional limitation
on the power of the city to use the tax when collected
for the maintenance of the city's business. Standard Oil
Co. v. City of Lincoln, 114 Neb. 245; 207 N.W. 172, 208
id. 962; aff'd per curiam, 275 U.S. 504. All the questions
thus suggested are met and disposed of by decision of
the constitutional question which the state court decided
and which we decide here.
1. There is no contention that appellant's franchise or
any-contract relieves it generally from the duty of paying
taxes. It is not contended that a state or municipality,
merely because it fails or is unable to tax its own property
or business, is prohibited from taxing like property or
business. The contention here is that constitutional limitations are transgressed only because the tax affects a
business with which the taxing sovereign is actively competing. For that reason it is argued that the taxation involves a forbidden discrimination and deprives appellant
of its property without due process since the combined
power of the city to tax and to compete may be used to
destroy appellant's business. As appellant asserts that
the tax can impose no effective burden on the city, its

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

• 291 U.S.

contention is, in effect, that the city, by virtue of the
Fourteenth Amendment, upon entering the business forfeited its power to tax any competitor.
In conducting the business by state authority the city
is exercising a part of the sovereign power of the state
which the Constitution has not curtailed. The decisions
of this Court leave no doubt that a state may, in the
public interest, constitutionally engage in a business commonly carried on by private enterprise, levy a tax to support it, Green v. Frazier,253 U.S. 233; Jones v. Portland,
245 U.S. 217, and compete witlfprivate interests engaged
in a like activity. Standard Oil Co. v. Lincoln, supra;
Madera Water Works v. Madera, 228 U.S. 454; Helena
Water Works Co. v. Helena, 195 U.S. 383.
We need not stop to inquire whether the equal protection clause was designed to protect the citizen from advantages retained by the sovereign, or to point out the
extraordinary implications of appellant's argument when
applied to expansions of government activities which have
become commonplace. It is enough for present purposes
that the equal protection clause does not forbid discrimination with respect to things that are different. The distinctions between the taxing sovereign and its taxpayers
are many and obvious. The private corporation, whatever its public duties, carries on its business for private
profit and is subject to the obligation, common to all, to
contribute to the expense of government by paying taxes.
The municipality, which is enabled to function only because it is a tax gatherer, may acquire property or conduct a business in the interest of the public welfare, and
its gains if any must be used for public ends. Hence
equal protection does not require a city to abstain from'
taxing the business of a corporation organized for profit
merely because in the public interest the municipality
has acquired like property or conducts a like business.

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
619

Opinion of the Cdurt.

These differences are not lessened nor the constitutional
exaction of uniformity increased because the city competes with a business which it taxes. Compare Springfield Gas Co. v. Springfield, 257 U.S. 66; Hollis v. Kutz,
255 U.S. 452; Emergency Fleet Corp.. v. Western Union,
275 U.S. 415. The state may tax different types of taxpayers differently even though they compete. State
Board of Tax Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U.S. 527;
Alaska Fish Salting & By-Products Co. v. Smith, 255 U.S.
44; Hammond Packing Co. v. Montana, 233 U.S. 331;
Quong Wing v. Kirkendall, 223 U.S. 59. It could not
plausibly be argued that a private nonprofit corporation
distributing electric current to consumers at cost could
not be exempted from taxes borne by others serving the
same wants. Compare Louisville Gas Co. v. Coleman, 277
U.S. 32, 40; German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas, 233
U.S. 389, 418; Citizens Telephone Co. v. Fuller, 229 U.S.
322. A business which in private hands might be exempted from taxation because not conducted for private
profit is no less privileged because its capital is supplied
by the government which controls it in the public interest. These considerations are in no way affected by calling the cify's activity "proprietary" instead of "governmental." Compare South Carolinav. United States, 199
U.S. 437, with Murray v. Wilson Distilling Co., 213 U.S.
151 and Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U.S. 514.
The injury, which appellant fears may result, is the
consequence of competition by the city, and not necessarily of the impositioA of the tax. Even without the
tax the possibility of injury would remain, for the city
is not bound to conduct the business at a profit. The
argument that some way must be found to interpret the
due process clause so as to preclude the danger of such
an injury fails to point the way. Legislation may protect from the consequences of competition, but the Con-

626

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

stitution does not. Helena Water Works Co. v. Helena,
supra; Vicksburg v. Henson, 231 U.S. 259. The Fourteenth Amendment does not purport to protect property
from every injurious or oppressive action by a state, Memphis Gas Co. v. Shelby County, 109 U.S. 398, 400; St.
Louis v. United Railways Co., 210 U.S. 266, 276, nor can
it relieve property of congenital defects, Madera Water
Works v. Madera, supra, 456: It does not preclude competition, however drastic, between private enterprises or
prevent unequal taxation of competitors who are different. 'Those were risks which appellant took when it entered the field. No articulate principle is suggested calling for the conclusion that the appellant is not subject
to the same risks because the competing business is
carried on by the state in the exercise of a power
which has been constitutionally reserved to it from
the beginning.
Such was the decision in Madera Water Works v.
Madera, supra, where this Court pointed out that in the
absence of any contract restriction the Fourteenth Amendment does not prevent a city from conducting a public
water works in competition with private business or preclude taxation of the private business to help its rival to
succeed. See also Springfield Gas Co. v. Springfield,supra.
Such must be our decision now.
2. The definition of gross income by § 2 of the ordinance, which is assailed as vague and indefinite, is that
considered in Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Seattle,
ante, p. 300. By §§ 10 and 20 the comptroller of the city
is required to make ruleg and regulations, having the force
of law, for carrying the ordinance into effect, and to provide blank forms of- return upon which the taxpayer is to
enter such information as the comptroller may require to
enable him to compute the tax. As appellant alleges that
it has received its license and paid the first installment of
the tax, it appears that a practical construction has been

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
619

VAN DEVANTER, J., concurring.

given to the ordinance by an administrative officer competent to give it, which the state court has upheld. It is
thus apparent that the ordinance, as construed, is sufficiently definite to enable the appellant to comply with it
and as appellant's return for taxation and the method of
computing the tax are not disclosed by the record no constitutional infirmity in the ordinance is revealed. See
Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport, Inc., 289 U.S. 249;
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Seattle, supra.
3. Appellant asserts a contract under its franchise to
use the streets of the city for the purpose of carrying on
its business for an unexpired term of years. It argues that
the franchise is a contract license to carry on the business,
and that the exaction of a tax as a condition precedent to
the enjoyment of the license will operate to destroy the
privilege granted by the franchise. This argument was
made and answered in Memphis Gas Co. v. Shelby County,
109 U.S. 398, and in St. Louis v. United Railways Co., 210
U.S. 266. Surrender of the state's power to tax the privilege is not to be implied from the grant of it. Hence,
appellant took its franchise subject to the power of the
state to tax the granted privilege in common with all other
privileges and property in the state. Without a clearly
expressed obligation on the part of the city to surrender
that power the contract clause does not limit it. See
Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U.S. 365; New
Orleans City & Lake R. Co. v. New Orleans, 143 U.S. 192;
PostaL Telegraph Cable Co. v. Charleston, 153 U.S. 692;
cf. Knoxville Water Co. v. Knoxville, 200 U.S. 22.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER,

specially concurring.

I concur in the judgment of affirmance, but not in the
principal part of the court's opinion.
The appellant, the power company, assails the ordinance imposing the tax on the following grounds:

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
VAN

DEVANTER, J., concurring.

291 U.S.

1. The ordinance contravenes the equal protection
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States in that it lays the tax on the appel"lant's electric light and power business but not on the
like and competing business of the city.
2. The ordinance offends the due process clause of that
Amendment in that it prescribes severe penalties and liabilities for nonpayment of the tax and yet defines "gross
income," on which the tax is to be computed, so vaguely
that the amount of the tax cannot be ascertained with
reasonable certainty.
3. The ordinance impairs the franchise contract enfitling the appellant to conduct its business within the
city for a term of fifty years, and thereby infringes the
contract clause of the Constitution, in that it makes the
continued enjoyment of the franchise depend on the
payment of the tax.
The assault is confined to this taxing ordinance. Other
ordinances, some provisions in the city's charter, and
still other enactments, have a real bearing on the matter,
but their validity under the Constitution of the United
States is not called in question.
I agree that the second and third grounds of the assault
must be held untenable for the reasons stated in the opinion; and I further agree that the first ground must failbut for reasons essentially different from those which the
opinion announces.
The first ground proceeds on the theory that the city
is free to accord equal treatment to the two competitive
businesses, but by its ordinance unreasonably and arbitrarily discriminates against the business of the appellant
and in favor of its own business by subjecting the former
to the tax and omitting or refusing to subject the latter
to a like burden. It therefore is of first importance to
ascertain what the ordinance provides and what are the

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
619

VAN DEVANTER, J., concurring.

circumstances which surrounded its adoption and in which
it is to be applied.
The ordinance was approved by the Mayor May 25,
1932, and was to become effective July 1 of that year.
It provides in § 2 that the word "person" in the several
sections shall be taken to include a corporation unless
the context plainly shows otherwise; in subdivision (c)
of § 5 that the tax shall be applied to " every person
engaged in or carrying on" the business of selling or
furnishing electric light and power within the city; and
in § 6 that subdivision (c) of § 5 "shall, as far as permitted by law, be applicable to the City of Seattle, except
that said City shall not, as a taxpayer, be required to
conform to the other provisions of this ordinance "-the
" other provisions " obviously being those which require
sworn returns, application for license, etc.
The electric light and power business of the appellant
and the like business of the city have been and are highly
competitive, and are the only ones in the field. Both had
their inception in ordinances adopted in 1902-the one
under which the city entered the field being a little
older than the one granting the franchise under which
the plaintiff has proceeded. Both businesses have been
greatly extended and enlarged in relative keeping with
the growth of the city.
The city's business is conducted, as is required by
statutory and charter provisions, as an independent unit
distinct from all other activities of the city, whether governmental or proprietary; and the accounts, revenues,
expenses and funds pertaining to the business are kept,
handled and adjusted, as is similarly required, separately from other accounts, revenues, expenses and funds of
the city. This independence and separation is not merely
formal, but real and persistent. The city in iLs governiental capacity is a customer of its proprietary light

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
VAN DEVANTER, J., concurring.

291 U.S.

and power business and obtains therefrom electric current needed for street lighting and other municipal purposes. For this current the city in its governmental
capacity pays each year a sum which is determined after
a public hearing in which all who are interested are given
an opportunity to participate. The payment is effected
by transferring money from the city's tax-supported general fund, which is devoted to governmental uses, to the
separate fund into which the revenues of the proprietary
light and power business are required to be paid. The
amount to be paid for such current in 1932 was given in
the city's budget as $438,750.
The decisions of the Supreme Court of the State leave
no doubt that the situation is as just stated. In Uhler v.
Olympia, 87 Wash. 1; 151 Pac. 117, 152 id. 998, which
relates to a proposed city-owned water system designed
to supply for hire both private and municipal needs, that
court says (p. 4): "The revenues to be received under
the plan proposed . . . do not partake of the character of
general funds, nor can the general fund be invaded if they
are not sufficient "; and again (p. 14): "The city, in
meeting functions that are called governmental, is taking
[water] from the city . . . in its proprietary capacity;
therefore the general fund of the city may be charged
and the special fund credited with a reasonable charge
for the water used [by the city] where it is so provided
in the ordinance. The city, as a governmental entity,
stands in the same relation to the system as a private
citizen who is patronizing it." And that court further
holds that, while it is admissible under the laws of the
state for a city to make "temporary loans" from the taxsupported general fund to a special utility fund or .vice
versa, or from one special utility fund to another, if the
borrowing fund is solvent and has an assured income from
which repayment may be made, it is not admissible to

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
619

VAx

DEVANTER, J.,

concurring.

make loans from one of these funds to another which is
insolvent, or to make contributions or permanent diversions from one to another; and that attempted infractions of these restrictions may be prevented by injunction.
Asia v. Seattle, 119 Wash. 674, 679-680; 206 Pac. 366;
Griffin v. Tacoma, 49 Wash. 524, 529; 95 Pac. 1107;
Uhler v. Olympia, 87 Wash. 1, 7; 151 Pac. 117, 152 id.
998; Von Herberg v. Seattle, 157 Wash. 141, 147, 150-151;
288 Pac. 646.
Since 1916 the city has financed the extension and development of its electric light and power business by issuing and selling revenue bonds, without submitting the
matter to the electorate or creating an indebtedness on
the part of the city. The total of such bonds outstanding
at the end of 1931 was approximately $32,000,000. By
law and by their own terms these bonds are payable only
from a bond fund specially created from revenues derived
by the city from its electric light and power business.
The appellant in its complaint alleges that the gross
revenues of the business are by law, underlying ordinances, and the terms of the bonds, pledged to the payment of the bonds, principal and interest; and that "such
pledge constitutes a charge upon such gross revenues prior
and superior to all other charges whatsoever, including
charges for maintenance and operation." Counsel for the
city, while not questioning the allegation in other respects, insist that under the applicable law the pledge is
not of the gross revenues, but at most is only of what
remains after paying costs of maintenance and operation,
and that the tax in question if laid on the city's business
pursuant to the ordinance may be paid from the gross
revenues like other costs of maintenance and operation.
Section 9491 of Remington's Revised Statutes of Washington, under which appellant alleges the bonds were issued, makes provision for setting, aside and paying into a

632

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
VAN DEVANTER, J., concurring.

291 U.S.

special bond fund "any fixed proportion " or "any fixed
amount" of the "gross revenues" from the business in
aid of which bonds are issued, and for making the bonds
'payable "only out of such special fund." These provisions are followed by another in the same section
declaring:
"In creating any such special fund or funds the common council or other corporate authorities of such city
or town shall have due regard to the cost of operation
and maintenance of the plant or system as constructed or
added to, and to any proportion or part of the revenue
previously pledged as a fund for the payment of bonds,
warrants or other indebtedness, and shall not set aside
into such special fund a greater amount or proportion of
the revenue and proceeds than in their judgment will be
available over and above such cost of maintenance and
operation and the amount' or proportion, if any, of the
revenue so previously pledged."'
The charter of the city also contains a provision, § 18
(Fifteenth), enabling the city to establish, operate and
maintain a plant or system for furnishing electric power
and light for industrial, individual and municipal uses,
"and to provide and secure payment therefor in whole
or in part by net earnings therefrom."
Section 9491, under which the appellant alleges the
revenue bonds' were issued, is not confined to enabling
cities to supply an electric light and power service, but
is also directed to enabling them through the issue of
like bonds to supply a street railroad service or a water
service. In 1919 the appellant, which then owned a street
railroad system in Seattle as well as an electric light and
power system, sold and transferred its street railroad system to the city and received in payment fifteen million
dollars of revenue bonds with a supporting pledge like
that which the appellant sets forth in its complaint in

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE,
619

VAN DEVANTER, J., concurring.

the present case.' Controversy soon arose as to whether
that pledge includes the entire gross revenue of the street
railroad system or only what remains after paying the
cost of maintenance and operation; and much litigation
ensued in which the appellant persistently sought to establish the broader construction of the pledge.2 The litigation resulted in decisions recognizing and sustaining the
pledge in several respects,' but leaving undetermined the
question whether it includes all of the gross revenue or
only what is left after the cost of maintenance and operation is paid. The case of Von Herberg v. Seattle, 157
Wash. 141, decided in 1930, appears to have been the last
of the series. The appellant was a party and set up its
contention as in the other cases. In concluding the decision the court said: "We accordingly express no opinion
upon the question of whether or not wages and operating
expenses of the street railway must be paid before the
application of any money in the street railway fund to
the payment of the bonds evidencing the purchase price
of the system."
In view of that acute and undetermined controversy
and its obvious bearing on the pledge given in support of
the revenue bonds pertaining to the city's electric light
and power business, it is easy to perceive why the city
in adopting the ordinance of 1932 and providing in § 6
that the tax should be applicable to the city's business,
inserted the words "as far as permitted by law." EviTwichell v. Seattle, 106 Wash. 32; 179 Pac. 127; Old Colony
Trust Co. v. Seattle, 271 U.S. 426.
'Puget Sound Power & Light Co. v. Seattle, 284 Fed. 659; Von
Herberg v. Seattle, 27 F. (2d) 457; Puget Sound Power & Light Co.
v. Von Herberg, 278 U.S. 644; Puget Sound Power & Light Co. v.
Seattle, 29 F. (2d) 254;
'Twichell v. Seattle, 106 Wash. 32; 179 Pac. 127; Asia v. Seattle,
119 Wash. 674; 206 Pac. 366; Von Herberg v. Seattle, 157 Wash.
141; 179 Pac. 127.
1

634

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
VAN DEVANTER, J., concurring..

291 U.S.

dently the city understood that, if the entire gross revenue
from the business was pledged, it might be for that reason
unable to pay out any part of the revenue for another
purpose. It also is easy to perceive that the appellant,
by reason of its interest in the street railroad revenue
bonds, may have regarded the present suit as a suitable
vehicle for getting its contention respecting such a pledge
before a court and possibly establishing indirectly what
it had been unable to establish through its earlier and
direct efforts. Certainly the appellant could not reasonably have expected to enhance its chances of success in
the present suit by introducing such a contention respecting the pledge given in support of the electric light and
power revenue bonds.
Of the circumstances ii -which the ordinance was
adopted and of the provision in § 6 declaring the tax applicable to the city's business, the state court said in the
present suit:
"The city, in its proprietary capacity, is in competition
with appellant in the power and light business. The possible consequences to appellant, if it is subjected to an
excise of three per cent on its gross revenues, while its
competitor escapes the burden, are too obvious for discussion. Evidently having such consequences in mind,
the city council, by virtue of § 6 of the ordinance, has
undertaken to subject the city's power and light business
to the tax imposed upon persons and corporations engaging in that business. This is merely a more or less
friendly gesture. The city has not allocated, and probably cannot allocate, any of the revenues of its power and
light business to the payment of such a tax. Bonds have
been issued in excess of $30,000,000 against the revenues
from that business; and those bonds are a prior lien on
the entire income from it-taking precedence even over
operating charges." [p. 671.]

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
619

VAN DEVANTER,

J., concurring.

Counsel differ widely respecting so much of this excerpt
as speaks of the existing pledge as an obstacle to. applying
the tax to the city's business. Counsel for the city say this
statement rests only on an allegation in the appellant's
complaint and was made in the absence of a full presentation of the matter and without intention to render a decision thereon; and they present arguments and citations
giving color to their assertion. On the other hand, counsel
for the appellant insist the statement is decisive and point
to its letter as justifying them in so insisting. It is obvious that the statement, when separately considered,
makes strongly for the latter view; but when it is read in
connection with prior decisions, which it does not mention,
and with charter and statutory provisions, which are not
noticed, there arises a real doubt whether it was made as
a decisive utterance or as a recital of what was alleged and
only assumed to be true.' This is a matter on which only
the state court can speak with ultimate authority; and as
its solution, as will appear later on, is not essential for
present purposes, it properly may be put to one side.
When this is done, the appellant's charge of unreasonable
discrimination amounting to a denial of equal protection
needs to be examined with three suggested views of the
existing pledge in mind-one treating it as including only
the net revenues from the city's business, as the city asserts; another treating it as including the entire gross
revenues, but subject to payment therefrom of any tax
lawfully imposed on the city's business; and still another
treating it as including the entire gross revenues and preventing, by reason of the contract clause of the Constitution, payment therefrom of the tax named in the
ordinance, as the appellant insists.
'Inaccurate statements of counsel sometimes lead to erroneous
assumptions by courts. Langford v. Monteith, 102 U.S. 145, 147.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
VAN DEVANTER, J., concurring.

291 U.S.

The ordinance, in § 6, provides that the tax "shall, as
far as permitted by law, be applicable" to the city's
proprietary business. Unless the pledge be in the way
it is plain that there is no legal obstacle to carrying this
provision into effect.' The state court does not suggest
the presence of any other obstacle; and counsel for the
appellant do not show that there is any. On the other
hand, counsel for the city concede that the ordinance imposes the tax on the city's business and assert the city's
willingness to pay the tax out of the gross revenues from
that business.
True, the appellant alleges 1h its complaint that the
city budget for 1932 did not allocate any of the revenues
from the city's business for such payment. But this allegation is of no significance. As counsel for the city point
out, the budget was adopted late in 1931, while the taxing ordinance was not adopted until May 25, 1932, and
did not become effective until July 1 of that year. Appellant's complaint was filed shortly after the ordinance
became effective and before the time fixed for making up
and settling another budget.
In view of the terms of the ordinance, and of the city's
attitude declared by its counsel, it is manifest that, if
the pledge be only of the net revenues, the tax falls on
N

5

Louisville v. Commonwealth, 62 Ky. 295; Commonwealth v. Makibben, 90 Ky. 384; 14 S.W. 372; Clark v. Louisville Water Co.,
90 Ky. 515; 14 S.W. 502 (affirmed 143 U.S. 1); Newport v. Commonwealth, 106 Ky. 434; 50 S.W. 845, 51 id. 433; Covington v.
Commonwealth, 107 Ky. 680; 39 S.W. 836 (affirmed 173 U.S. 231);
Western Saving Fund Society v. Philadelphia, 31 Pa. St. 175, 183;
Chadwick v. Maginnes, 94 Pa. St. 117; Erie County v. Commissioners, 113 Pa. St. 368; 6 At. 138; Vilas v. Manila, 220 U.S. 345, 356.
And see Atlantic & N. C. R. Co. v. Commissioners, 75 N.C. 474;
South Carolina v. United States, 199 U.S. 437; Los Angeles v. Los
Angeles Gas & Electric Corp., 251 U.S. 32; Bank of United States v.
Planters Bank, 9 Wheat. 904, 907; .Curran v. Arkansas, 15 How.
304, 309.

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
619

637

VAN DEVANTER, J., concurring.

the city's business just as on the other, and that the
charge of unreasonable discrimination is without any
basis.
If the pledge be of the gross revenues but subject to
payment therefrom of any tax lawfully laid on the city's
business, thereby leaving the city free to pay the tax
imposed by the ordinance out of such revenues, it still
is manifest that the ordinance treats both businesses
alike, and therefore that there is no discrimination.
If the pledge be of the entire gross revenues and, by
reason of the contract clause of the Constitution, prevents
the application of part of the revenues to the payment
of the tax, it is very plAin that such discrimination as
results is neither arbitrary on the part of the city nor
within the condemnation of the equal protection clause.
The contract clause and the equal protection clause are
both parts of the Constitution; and of course action taken
or omitted in obedience to the contract clause cannot be
regarded as a violation of the equal protection clause.
Nor does the latter clause require that a right or exemption which under the other clause must be accorded to a
particular business be also accorded to a similar business
not otherwise entitled to it.6
It follows that in none of the suggested views of the
pledge can the appellant's charge of unreasonable discrimination be sustained. And, this being so, there is no
need for now considering which of the suggested views
of the pledge is right.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER concur in this opinion.
Raley & Bros. v. Richardson, 264 U.S. 157; Packer Corporation
v. Utah, 285 U.S. 105, 109; Des Moines National Bank v. Fairweather, 263 .U.S. 103, 116-117; Union Bank & Trust Co. v. Phelps,

288 U.S. 181, 187.

