BEST v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
386

411

Statement of the Case.

below must be reversed accordingly and the causes remanded to the District Court with directions to set aside
the findings, and to sustain the motions to dismiss-but
without prejudice to the exercise by that court of its
discretion in permitting amendments of the petitions.
Our conclusions in Nos. 171, 196 and 329 when summarized require that the judgments in all be reversed and
the causes remanded with directions as before indicated.
Judgments reversed.
BEST, ADMINISTRATOR, v. DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
CERTIORARI TO THE COUR' OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 477.

Argued February 9, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

1. To warrant the direction of a verdict for the dfendant on the
opening statement of plaintiff's counsel, it is not enough that the
statement be indefinite; it must clearly appear, after resolving all
doubts and uncertainties in favor of the plaintiff, that no cause of
action exists." P. 415.
2. Where a wharf, for unloading sand, lies adjacent to a public street
from which, for want of a proper fence or barrier, its surface may
be both seen and entered, and when children of tender years,
attracted by the sand piles, are accustomed to enter and use it as a
playground, going in and out at their pleasure, the owner is under
a duty to take reasonable precautions either to prevent such use or
to keep the flooring in repair so that children will not be exposed to
the danger of falling through holes. Railroad Co. v. Stout, 17 Wall.
657; Union Pacific Ry. v. McDonald, 152 U.S. 262, applied.
United Zinc Co. v. Britt, 258 U.S. 268, distinguished. P. 416.
62 App.D.C. 271; 66 F. (2d) 797, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 619, to review a judgment affirming a judgment for the District of Columbia entered on a
directed verdict, in an action for the death of a child,
alleged to have been caused by negligence. The verdict

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

291 U.S.

was directed at the close of the opening statement by
counsel for the administrator.
Mr. John H. Burnett, with whom Messrs. James A.
O'Shea and Alfred Goldstein were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Robert E. Lynch, Assistant Corporation Counsel,
District of Columbia, with whom Mr. William W. Bride,
Corporation Counsel, was on the brief, for respondent.
There was a complete failure to offer proof of the following essential facts: That. the wharf could be seen from
the public space; that the child was attracted by the presence of the wharf, or of anything upon it; hidden danger
there; prior accidents to children; invitation or permission to children to enter or play.
The statement that "children went in and out at their
pleasure" and that "children used this place to play on
and play in" is -not enough to show an invitation or permission on behalf of the respondent. It is to be inferred
that the watchman would have prevented the children
from coming upon the premises; and the fact that the
wharf "is not a place to which the public is admitted"
definitely negatives any permission or invitation to a
five-year-old child to play on the wharf on a Sunday.
Cases cited: Sullivan v. Huidekoper, 27 App.D.C.
154; Sioux City & P. R. Co. v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657;
Union Pacific R. Co. v. McDonald, 152 U.S. 262; Peters
v. Bowman, 115 Cal. 345; Baltimore v. Palma, 137 Md.
179; Lease v. Bealmear, 130 Atl. 66; Trogia v. Butte
Mining Co., 270 Fed. 75; Savannah, F. & W. R. Co. v.
Beavers, 113 Ga. 398; Zamaria v. Davis, 284 Pa. 524;
Thompson v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 218 Pa. 444;
Beichert v. G M. Laboratories,242 N.Y. 168; Lineb4rg
v. St. Paul, 71 Minn. 245; Stendal v. Boyd, 73 Minn. 53;
Gillespie v. McGowan, 100 Pa. 144; Hegeage v. District

BEST v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
411

Opinion of the Court.

of Columbia, 42 App.D.C. 109; McGraw v. District of
Columbia, 3 App.D.C. 405; Branan v. Wimsatt, 54
App.D.C. 374, cert. den., 265 U.S. 591; Daniels v. New
York & N. E. R. Co., 154 Mass. 349; Walker v. Potomac
& FredericksburgR. Co., 105 Va. 226; Walsh v. Fitchburg
R. Co., 145 N.Y. 301; Conrad v. Baltimore& Ohio R. Co.,
64 W.Va. 176.
The doctrine announced in the "turntable case,"
Sioux City & P. R. Co. v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657, and the
"slack pit case," Union Pacific R. Co. v. McDonald, 152
U.S. 262, is not applicable.
The case at bar should be controlled by United Zinc
Co. v. Britt 258 U.S. 268. Cf. New York, N. H. & H. R.
Co. v. Fruchter,260 U.S. 141; 36 A.L.R. 1-294; 45 A.L.R.
973-993; Erie R. Co. v. Duplak, 286 U.S. 441.
The directing of the verdict at the conclusion of the
opening statement was proper. Hornblower v. George
Washington University, 31 App.D.C. 64; Brown v. District of Columbia, 29 App.D.C. 273; Oscanyan v. Win,
chester Arms Co., 103 U.S. 261.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Petitioner's intestate, a child five years of age, while
playing on a wharf belonging to the District of Columbia, fell through a hole in the wharf and was drowned.
This action was for damages for the alleged negligence of
the District. After a jury had been impaneled, an opening statement was made by plaintiff's counsel and thereupon the court, on motion of the defendant and without
taking testimony, directed a verdict in defendant's favor
upon the ground that no cause of action had been stated.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment, 62 App.
D.C. 271; 66 F. (2d) 797, and this Court granted
certiorari.

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion 6f the Court.

291 U.S.

The opening statement by plaintiff's counsel was as
follows:
"This is a case against the District of Columbia filed
by Mr. Best as administrator for the estate of his son.
The facts that we will show you, briefly, are these, that
Mr. Best's son was a child of five years of age and that on
the day in question he and other children were playing
down at a wharf close to where the Norfolk boats leave
for Norfolk, and this wharf was operated and controlled
by the District of Columbia; that they had there on this
wharf some boards which extended over the water and
they had in the wharf, as several witnesses will testify,
from ten to thirteen holes of various and varying sizes;
that one of the holes was quite large, approximately 3
feet in diameter; that this place was not fenced off; that
it did have some sort of a barrier close to the street.
There was no sidewalk, but the side portion was down
and that the children went in and out at their pleasure,
and that this son of Mr. Best went in there on this morning and while in there fell through one of the holes in
this wharf.
"That there was no one there at the time to keep the
children away; and that the watchman who was stationed
arrived some time after this occurrence; that the children
used this place to play on and play in; and that the
District having maintained it in a condition such that it
was dangerous to the life and limb of these children it is
responsible for the child having been attracted there, going in and falling through this hole. Of course the child
died, having been drowned; and the damages that the
plaintiff has suffered as representing the estate of the
child will be determined by you in your verdict if you are
convinced by a preponderance of the evidence that we
have established our case.
"That this wharf is not part of the public highway but
is on private property of the District of Columbia, and

BEST v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
411

Opinion of the Court.

is not a place to which the public is admitted, but is a
place where the boats dock and unload sand which is
taken out and used by the District."
There is no question as to the power of the trial court
to direct a verdict for the defendant upon the opening
statement of plaintiff's counsel where that statement
establishes that the plaintiff has no right to recover. The
power of the court to act upon facts conceded by counsel
is as plain as its power to act upon evidence produced.
Oscanyan v. Arms Co., 103 U.S. 261, 263. The exercise
of this power in a proper case is not only not objectionable, but is convenient in saving time and expense by
shortening trials. Liverpool, N.Y. & P. S.S. Co. v. Commissioners, 113 U.S. 33, ;f7. But the power is not properly
exercised if the opening statement leaves doubt as to the
facts or permits conflicting inferences. Where uncertainty
arises either from a conflict of testimony or because, the
facts being undisputed, fair-minded men may honestly
draw different conclusions from them, the question is not
one of law but of fact to be settled by the jury. Richmond & Danville R. Co. v. Powers, 149 U.S. 43, 45; Texas
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Harvey, 228 U.S. 319, 324; Gunning
v. Cooley, 281 U.S. 90, 94. The opening statement of
counsel is ordinarily intended to do no more than to inform the jury in a general way of the nature of the action
and defense so that they may better be prepared to understand the evidence. "If a doubt exists," said the Court in
the Oscanyan case, supra, '"as to the statement of counsel,
the court will withhold its directions, as where the evidence is conflicting, and leave the matter to the determination of the jury." Plaintiff is entitled to the benefit
of all inferences that may be drawn from his counsel's
statement. To warrant the court in directing a verdict
for defendant upon that statement, it is not enough that
the statement be lacking in definiteness but it must clearly
appear, after resolving all doubts in plaintiff's favor, that

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

no cause of action exists. See Illinois Power & Light Corp.
v. Hurley, 49 F. (2d) 681, 684; Stuthman v. United States,
67 F. (2d) 521, 523.
The controversy in this case largely turns upon a difference of view as to the inferences to be drawn from the
opening statement. Thus, respondent argues that there
was a failure to show that " the wharf could be seen from
the public space "; that " the child was attracted by the
presence of the wharf itself, or any article or thing which
may have been upon the wharf "; that "there was any
latent or hidden danger at the place" where the child met
his death; that " there was ever a prior accident to children at or near this wharf "; that "respondent invited or
permitted petitioner's intestate or other children to enter
or play on its wharf." But with respect to each of these
circumstances (with a single unimportant exception) the
opening statement of counsel permitted an inference in
petitioner's favor. Thus, his counsel stated that "this
place was not fenced off; that it did have some sort of a
barrier close to the street. There was no sidewalk, but
the side portion was down." From this, it was not inadmissible to infer that the wharf, without a fence and close
to the street, with the side portion of the barrier down,
" could be seen from the public space " and readily entered. According to the statement, the wharf was a
place where boats unloaded sand which was taken out and
used by the District. The inference might be drawn that
the wharf had sandpiles which would be highly attractive
to children. Counsel stated that there were "ten to thirteen holes" in the wharf, of varying sizes, one of them
being about' three feet in diameter. The existence of
these holes manifestly constituted a danger and the statement does not require the conclusion that the danger
would bc obvious to young children playing in the sand
on the wharf. The fact that the opening statement did
not refer to any prior accident to children is inconsequen-

BEST v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
411

Opinion of the Court.

tial. On the question whether the District permitted
children to enter and play on the wharf, counsel's statement gave basis for an inference that children had this
permission. While counsel conceded that the wharf was
"not part of the public highway" but "was on private
property of the District" and was" not a place to which
the public was admitted," he also stated that "the children went in and out at their pleasure " and that "the
children.used this place to play on and play in." He said
that at the time of the accident there was no one "to
keep the children away," as " the watchman who was stationed arrived some time after this occurrence." The
statement permitted the inference that, while a watchman was customarily there, still the place was used
as a playground by children, going in and out as they
pleased.
In view of the fair import of the opening statement, it
was error for the trial court to refuse to take testimony,
and to direct a verdict for respondent. None of the decisions of this Court bearing upon the liability of the
District warranted that course. The case of United Zinc
Co. v. Britt, 258 U.S. 268, which respondent cites as controlling authority, dealt with a situation materially different. There children were fatally injured by going into
a pool of water, poisoned by acids, which had accumulated
in the lower part of a dismantled chemical factory, about
100 or 120 feet distant from a traveled way. The Court
stressed the facts that it was "at least doubtful whether
the water could be seen from any place where the children
lawfully were," that there was "no evidence that it was
what led them to enter the land," and that it did not appear "that children were in the habit of going to the place."
The decision did not overrule Railroad Co. v. Stout, 17
Wall. 657, or Union PacificRy. Co. v. McDonald, 152 U.S.
262, although both were distinguished in the light of their
particular facts. The Court said that the case of Stout,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

where the child was injured on a turntable "near a road
without visible separation " and where it appeared that
children had played there before to the knowledge of employees of the railroad, was perhaps "as strong a case as
would be likely to occur of maintaining a known temptation, where temptation takes the place of invitation."
The Court added that in the very similar case of Cooke
v. Midland Great Western Ry. of Ireland [1909] A.C.
229, a license was implied. Also distinguishing the case
of McDonald, where a boy had fallen into burning coal
slack " close by the side of a path on which he was running
homeward from other boys who had frightened him," the
Court said that" it hardly appears that he was a trespasser
and the path suggests an invitation; at all events boys
habitually resorted to the place where he was. Also the
defendant was under a statutory duty to fence the place
sufficiently to keep out cattle." The decision permitting
recovery in those circumstances was said to be very far
from establishing liability "for poisoned water not bordering a road" where it was "not shown to have been the
inducement that led the children to trespass" and "not
shown to have been the indirect inducement because
known to the children to be frequented by others."
In New York, N. H. & H. R. Co. v. Fruchte'r, 260 U.S.
141, where a boy, climbing to the topmost girder of a municipal bridge and thence up a latticed tower, touched a
live electric wire and was injured, the Court was unable
to find any sufficient evidence from which a jury could
properly conclude that the railroad company either directly or by 'implication "invited or licensed" him to
climb to a point from which he could touch the bare wire
thirty feet above the street. The cases of Erie R. Co. v.
Hilt, 247 U.S. 97, and Erie R. Co. v. Duplak, 286 U.S.
440, turned upon the application of a statute of New
Jersey as construed by the state court.

BEST v. DIST. OF COLUMBIA.
411

Opinion of the Court.

The question is one of negligence,-whether particular
circumstances gave rise to a duty which had not been performed. Discussing general principles, the Court observed in the Britt case, that infants had no greater right
to go upon other peoples' land than adults and that the
mere fact that they were infants imposed no duty upon
landowners to expect them and to prepare for their safety.
On the other hand, it was said that while "temptation is
not invitation, it may be heldthat knowingly to establish
and expose, unfenced, to children of an age when they
follow a bait as mechanically as a fish, something that is
certain to attract them, has the legal effect of an invitation to them although not to an adult." The Court said
that the principle if accepted should be very cautiously
applied. We think that the present case falls within that
appropriate application. Were the case merely one of an
accessible wharf, it could not be said that the District
would be subject to liability from the fact, without more,
that a child strayed there and fell from the wharf into
the water. The duty must find its source in special circumstances in which, by reason of the inducement and
of the fact that visits of children to the place would naturally be anticipated, and because of the character of the
danger to which they would unwittingly be exposed, reasonable prudence would require that precautions be taken
for their protection. Here, on the face of the opening
statement, the location of the wharf, unfenced, close to
the street with the barrier partly down, taken with the
use of the wharf for unloading sand, made it a likely place
for children to play. Sandpiles close at hand would constitute "a bait" they would inevitably follow. According to the statement, they did follow it and they used the
wharf as a playground at their pleasure. As the authorities of the District had reason to anticipate that use,
there was a duty to take reasonable precautions either to

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Statement of the Case.

291 U.S.

prevent it or to keep the wharf in such a proper state of
repair that children would not be exposed to the danger
of falling through holes.
Judgment reversed

HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 343. Argued February 7, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

1. An alien resident of the United States returning from a temporary visit abroad is a "non-quota immigrant."

of 1924, § 4 (b).

Immigration Act

P. 422.

2. By §§ 10 (a), (b), (c), (f), and 13 (b), of the Immigration Act,
and regulations thereunder, a permit to reenter granted to an
immigrant who has been legally admitted to the United States
and who departs therefrom temporarily, is the equivalent of an
immigration visa for the purpose of determining his right to readmission, under § 13 (a), and the liability of a steamship company
for bringing him back, under § 16 (a). P. 422.
3. Where a steamship company brings in a non-quota immigrant
without immigration visa or regntry permit, it is liable to fine under
§ 16 of the Act notwithstanding that the Secretary of Labor, acting
on discretionary authority assumed to be conferred by § 13, admits
him to the country, since subdivision (f) of § 13 provides that
nothing in that section "shall authorize the remission or refunding
of a fine, liability to which has accrued under Section 16." P. 425.
4. Where an immigrant, unlawfully brought in without visa or
reentry permit, is nevertheless admitted, the fine of $1,000 can
legally be imposed on the steamship company under § 16 (b)
without requiring it to pay the passage money. P. 426.
65 F. (2d) 369, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

290 U.S. 615, to review the affirmance of a

judgment dismissing the complaint in an action by a
steamship company to recover a fine exacted under the
Immigration Act.

