FREULER v. HELVERING.

35

Syllabus.

24

.The decree of the District Court is reversed and the
cause remanded with instructions to reinstate the bill
and proceed to a hearing upon the merits.
Reversed.
FREULER, ADMINISTRATOR, v. HELVERING,
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE. *
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 129.

Argued December 8, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

1. Under § 219 of the Revenue Act of 1921, the fiduciary of a trust
estate, in computing the net income for the taxable year, makes the
same deductions from gross income that are allowed in cases of
individual income, including deductions for depreciation; those
parts of the net income which, by the instrument or order governing the distribution, are distributable during the tax year -to beneficiaries, are specified in the fiduciary's return, but they are income
of the beneficiaries as of the time of their receipt by the fiduciary
and are returnable by and taxable to the beneficiaries, whether distributed to them or not; if, by mistake, the fiduciary omits to
make proper deductions for depreciation, aid so overstates the net
income of the estate and overpays a beneficiary, the excess received
by the latter is no part of his income and need not be included in
his return. P. 40.
2. A decree of a state court having jurisdiction of a trust, determining
that annual deductions for depreciation of the trust property should
have been taken from gross income before making distributions to
*Pursuant

to stipulation, the decisions in the following cases are

reversed on the authori.ty of this case: Nos. 130 and 131, Freuler,
Administrator,v. Helvering, on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, No. 139, Marguerite T. Whitcomb
v. Helvering; No. 140, Charlotte A. W. Lepic v.Helvering; No. 141,
Marie M. E. G. T. Whitcomb v. Helvering; Nos. 142 and 143, Charlotte A. W. Lepic v. Helvering; and No. 144, Marie M. E. G. Whitcomb v. Helvering, on writs of certiorari to the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

life income beneficiaries, and requiring them to make restitution
accordingly, establishes the rights of the parties and is an "order
governing the distribution" of the income within the nieaning of
§ 219 (d) of the Revenue Act of 1921. Pp. 43, 45.
3. Proceedings in a state court resulting in such a decree, held not to
have been collusive. P. 45.
4. Retention byr the income beneficiaries of the excess paid them by
the trustee, under an agreement with the possible remaindermen
permitting substitution of promissory notes, held not to have rendered it taxable as income from the trust. P. 45.
62 F. (2d) 733, reversed.

290 U.S. 610, to review a judgment reversing, on appeal, a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals,
which had set aside a deficiency assessment of income
tax. 22 B.T.A. 118.
CERTIORARI,

Messrs. Claude R. Branch and Felix T. Smith, with
whom Messrs. TV. W. Spalding and Robert A. Littleton
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs and Messrs. Sewall Key and John MacC, Hudson
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
A. C. Whitcomb, a resident of California, died in 1889;
and by his will, probated in that State, gave the residue
of his estate in trust, one-third of the income to be paid
to his widow for life, with limitations in remainder. The
petitioner is the administrator of the estate of Mrs. Whitcomb, who died in 1921. The will of A. C. Whitcomb
contained no direction for the computation of trust income, none for the keeping of the trustee's accounts, and
none for any allowance or deduction representing depreciation. Beginning about 1906, the trustee converted
trust assets into real estate and other forms of investment

FREULER v. HELVERING.
35

Opinion of the Court.

subject to depreciation. In fiduciary income tax returns
for 1921 and subsequent years, the trustee deducted from
gross income an amount representing depreciation, but
failed to withhold from the beneficiaries, to whom he paid
income, the amount of the depreciation deduction, so that
each beneficiary was paid his or her full ratable share of
income for the taxable year. As Mrs.*Whitcomb died in
1921, a portion of the year's income was paid to her and a
.portion to the petitioner as her administrator. Neither
the petitioner, as administrator of Mrs. Whitcomb, nor
any of the other beneficiaries, included in their returns, as
income received, that proportion of the income represented
by the depreciation deduction shown on the trustee's
fiduciary return.
The applicable sections of the Revenue Act of 1921 1
are:
"219. (a) That the tax imposed by sections 210 and
211 shall apply to the income of estates or any kind of
property held in trust, including . . . (4) Income which
is to be distributed to the beneficiaries periodically,
whether or not at regular intervals, and the income collected by a guardian of an infant to be held or distributed
as the court may direct.
"(d). In cases under paragraph (4) of. subdivision (a)
. . the tax shall not be paid by the fiduciary, but there
shall be included in computing the net income of each
beneficiary that part of the income of the estate or trust
for its taxable year which, pursuant to the instrument or
order governing the distribution, is distributable to such
beneficiary, whether distributed or not, .. "
In the belief that these provisions warranted his action,
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue increased the income shown on the petitioner's return by so much of the
amount received as reflected the proportionate share of
*

Revenue Act of 1921, c. 136, § 219, 42 Stat. 246.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the depreciation deducted by the trustee in his fiduciary
return, and determined a deficiency accordingly.2 The

petitioner appealed to the Board of Tax Appeals.
In 1928, while the case was pending before the Board,
the trustee, who had annually rendered income'statements
to the beneficiaries, but had filed no accounts as trustee,
lodged in a California court having jurisdiction of the
trust, an account for the period 1903-1928, and prayed
its approval. Due notice of the proceeding was given the
parties in interest. Certain remaindermen objected to
the account, on the ground that the trustee had .paid the
entire income to beneficiaries without deducting and
reserving proper amounts for depreciation and for capital
losses sustained. The matter coming on for hearing, the
court sustained the objection concerning depreciation and
overruled that as to capital losses; found the amounts
which should have been reserved for depreciation; refused
to surcharge the trustee, but decreed that the life beneficiaries (including the estate of Louise P. V. Whitcomb)
repay to the trustee the amounts which he should have
withheld annually for depreciation. The sum fixed for
the year 1921 was $43,003.16, which the Board of Tax
Appeals has found was the correct amount, a pro rata
share of which the petitioner had deducted from the
reported income of Louise P. V. Whitcomb. Pursuant to
this decree the petitioner repaid $10,700 to the trustee,
which was more than petitioner's share of the required
repayment for the year 1921. Since, however, Mrs. Whitcomb's estate owed additional amounts for each of the
'The propriety of taxing the full amount of the annual distributions
of income in this estate in the years 1918-1920 was tested by certain
of the beneficiaries. Whitcomb v. Blair, 58 App.D.C. 104; 25 F. (2d)
528; Appeal of Louise P. V. Whitcomb, 4 B.TA. 80. 'It' was held in
those cases that the beneficiaries must return what they in fact received and that delreciatiofi, as it affected only capital assets, and not
income, could not be deducted by the life beneficiaries.

FREULER v. HELVERING.
Opinion of the Court.

35

years 1913-1928, the balance was adjusted by a promissory note of her next of kin. Other beneficiaries also gave
notes in settlement of amounts due the trustee.
The Board of Tax Appeals reversed the Commissioner.'
The state court's judgment was held conclusive of the
fact that no part of the sums paid to the beneficiaries out
of the amount required to be deducted by the trustee
for depreciation belonged to them; and the conclusion
was, therefore; that the amount distributable to the petitioner's decedent for 1921 was the income of the trust
due her, less her proportionate share of the sum representing depreciation of the trust property.
The Commissioner petitioned the Circuit Court of
Appeals to review the decision, and, after hearing, the
court reversed the Board and sustained the Commissioner's ruling.4 The case is here on writ of certiorari. 5
The petitioner insists the plain meaning of § 219 is
that an income beneficiary of a trust shall pay tax, not
on so much of the income as he actually receives, but on
the amount he should properly have received in any tax
year. His position is that if the amount of income properly "distributable" to him is in excess of the amount
paid, he must return and pay tax on the larger amount,
irrespective of when in the future he may actually re*22 B.T.A. 1,18.
'62 F. (2d) 733.
'Other beneficiaries prosecuted like appeals to the Board with like
result. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed
the Board and the taxpayers were granted certiorari in Numbers 130
and 131. The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia reversed
the Board in the cases of six beneficiaries, 65 F.. (2d) 803, 809. These
cases are also here on certiorari as Numbers 139-144, inclusive. By
a stipulation filed in this Court, November 15, 1933, if the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals be affirmed in this case, the like judgment shall be entered in the other cases enumerated, and if the
judgment in this case be reversed, the like judgment shall be entered
in the others.

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

ceive the balance due him for the year in question. In
this view the respondent concurs. But conversely, says
the petitioner, if in any year the beneficiary is actually
paid more than is properly distributable to him, he should
not return and pay tax on the excess to which he was
not entitled. The respondent disagrees with this proposition. If the question be decided in favor of the respondent we need go no further; but if in favor of the
petitioner, we must inquipe what are the criteria for
determining, whether the sum actually paid was in fact
distributable. On this matter also the parties are in
disagreement.
1. Section 219 (a) declares that the income of estates
and property held in trust is to bear the same tax as the
income of individuals. The tax is measured by the gross
income received by the fiduciary, less certain allowable
deductions, as in the case of an individual. To clarify
and emphasize this purpose it is stated that income received by a decedent's estate in course of administration, income to be accumulated for unborn or unascertained persons, income to be held for future distribution,
income to be distributed periodically to beneficiaries, and
income received by a guardian, to be held or distributed
as the court may direct, is included in the taxable income
of the estate or trust. Paragraphs (1) to (4).
Sub-section (b) puts upon the fiduciary the duty of
making a return and directs what it shall contain. As respects income which is to be distributed periodically to
beneficiaries the return is to include "a statement of the
income of the estate or trust which, pursuant to the instrument or order governing the distribution, is distributable to each beneficiary, whether or not distributed before the close of the taxable year for which the return
is made."
Sub-section (c) requires.the fiduciary to pay the tax on
all net income of the estate or trust, save that which is

FREULER v. HELVERING.
35

Opinion of the Court.

distributable periodically, but sub-section (d) directs, as
respects the sort of income last mentioned, "the tax shall
not be paid by, the fiduciary," but in computing the income of each beneficiary there shall be included "that
part of the income of the estate or trust for its taxable
year which, pursuant to the instrument or order governing the distribution, is distributable to such beneficiary,
whether distributed or not,
Sub-section (e) covers a case ivhere the total income
to be returned by a fiduciary is made up of two classes,
as e. g. a portion to be held and accumuiated and a portion to be distributed periodically to beneficiaries. The
fiduciary must then prepare his return as if he were required to pay the tax on the whole and enter "as an additional deduction" (in addition, that is, to the usual deductions allowed all taxpayers by the other sections of the
Act) that part of the estate or trust income " which, pursuant to the instrument or order governing the distribution, is distributable during its [the fiduciary's] taxable
year to the beneficiaries." To remove all doubt of the
intent of the Act, a sentence is added to the effect that in
such case each beneficiary's personal income shall include
the portion of the trust's income which "pursuant to the
instrument or order governing the distribution, is distributable" to him.
Plainly the section contemplates the taxation of the
entire net income of the trust. Plainly, also, the fiduciary,
in computing net indonae, is authorized to make whatever
appropriate deductions other taxpayers are allowed by
law. The net income 'ascertained by this operation, and
that only, is the taxable income. This the fiduciary may
be required to accumulate; or, on the other hand, he may
be under a duty currently to distribute it. If the latter,
then the scheme of the Act is to treat the amount so distributable, not as the trust's income, but as the beneficiary's. But as the tax on the entire net income of the trust

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

is to be paid by the fiduciary or the beneficiaries, or partly
by each, the beneficiary's share of the income is considered his property from the moment of its receipt by thE
estate. This treatment of the beneficiary's income is necessary to prevent the possibility of postponement of the
tax to a year subsequent to that in which the income was
received by the trustee. If it were not for this provision
the trustee might pay on part of the income in one year
and the beneficiary on the remainder in a later year. For
the purpose of imposing the tax, the Act regards ownership, .the right of property in the beneficiary, as equivalent to physical possession. The test of taxability to the
beneficiary is not receipt of income, but the present right
to receive it. Clearly, an overpayment to a beneficiary
by mistake of law or fact, would render him liable for the
taxable year under consideration, not on the amount paid,
but on that payable. If the trustee should have deducted
a sum for depreciation from the year's gross income before ascertaining the amount distributable to Mrs. Whitcomb and the other beneficiaries, but failed to do so, he
paid her more than was properly distributable for the
taxable year. Both the language used and its aptness to
effect the obvious scheme for the division of tax between
the estate and the beneficiary seem so plain as not to
require construction. The administrative interpretation
has been in accord with the meaning we ascribe to the
section; 'and no decision to the contrary has been brought
to our attention.
The respondent suggests that income distributable
within the meaning of the section is income which was
reasonably regarded by the parties as distributable at the
time it was distributed. We think such a construction
would do violence to the plain import of the words used.
The respondent relies on North American Oil Consoli'Treasury

Regulations 62, ed. 1922, Arts. 345 and 347.

FREULER v. HELVERING.
35

Opinion of the Court.

dated v. Burnet, 286 U.S. 417. That case, however, involved the receipt of income in 1917 through a money
award of a court. An appeal was taken and the award
was not confirmed by the appellate court until 1922. The
taxpayer's claim that the possibility of reversal shifted
the receipt of the income to .the later year was overruled.
Section 219 had no bearing upon the question presented.
2. The will of A. C. Whitcomb contains no direction,
and 'the statutes of California make no provision, as to
depreciation of trust assets. In the absence of either, the
Circuit Court of Appeals thought the-decision of the state
court inconclusive in the administration of the federal
Revenue Act, and interpreted the will according to the
general law of trusts, which was held to forbid deductions from distributable income on account of depreciation, and to place upon the remaindermen the burden of
any shrinkage of capital value of that nature. The petitioner challenges the ruling, insisting upon the binding
force o.the state court's decree. Obviously that decree
had'not the effect of res judicata, and could' not furnish
the basis for invocation of the full faith and credit clause
'of the 'Federal Constitution in the present case. The
petitioner, however, says: that it furnishes the standard
for the application of § 219, since the section. plainly
so declares; but even if 'this be not true, the decision
settles the property rights of the beneficiaries which § 219.
intended should be observed in distributing the burden
of the tax.
The first position is supported by citation of the language of sub-section (d) that "there shall, be included
in computing the net income of each beneficiary that
part of* the income of the estate or trust for its tax-.
able year which, pursuant to the instrument or order
governing the distribution, is distributable to such beneficiary, whether distributed or not . . ." The. decree of"
the state court is said to be the order governing distribu-

44

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.'

291 U.S.

tion of this .estate. The respondent reads the language
as xhaking the terms of the trust instrument controlling
where there. is one, and resorting to an order only where
there is no instrument governing payments of incorae;
and he adverts to the language of sub-section (a) .(4)
exempting the fiduciary from returning "income collected
by a guardian of an infant to be held or distributed as the
court rpay direct," as explaining the use of the word
"order " in sub-section (d) and rendering it applicable
onlyf to income collected by a guardian. But a moment's
reflection will show this is an error. The whole of a
minor's income received by his guardian is taxable to the
minor irrespective of its accumulation in the guardian's
hands, distribution to the minor or payment for his sup,port or'education. This is the reason that a fiduciary in'
receipt of such income is not bound to return it'as trust
income. Either,the minor or his guardian must make the
return, but in either case it embraces all the income and
is the minor's individual return, not that of the guardian
or the trust.!
'The word "order" must be given -some meaning as applied to trust income which is to be -distributed periodically; and we think it clear that the section intended that
the order of the court having jurisdiction of the trust
should be determinative as to what is distributable income
for the purpose of division of the tax between the trust
and the beneficiary. We understand the respondent to
concede the binding force of a state statute, or a settled
rule of property, followed by state courts, and, as well,
an antecedent order of the court having jurisdiction of
the trust, pursuant to which payments were made. But,
if the order of the state court does in fact govern the distribution, it is difficult to see why, whether it antedated
actual payment or was subsequent to that event, it should
'See Regulations 62, ed. 1922, Arts. 347, 403, 422.

FREULER v. HELVERING.
35

Opinion of the Court.

not be effective to fix the amount of the taxable income
of the beneficiaries. We think the order of the state cowrt'
was the order governing the distribution within the meaning of the Act.
Moreover, the decision of that court, until'reversed or
overruled, establishes the law rf California respecting dis-,
tribution of the trust estate. It is none the less. a: declaration of the law of the State because not based on a statute,
or earlier decisions. The rights of the beneficiaries are
property rights and the court has adjudicated them.
What the law as announced by that court adjudges distributable is, we think, to be so considered in applying
§ 219 of the Act of 1921.
The respondent suggests that the proceeding in the
state court was a collusive one-collusive in the sense
that all the parties joined in a submission of the issues
and sought a decision which would adversely affect the
Government's right to additional income tax. We cannot
so hold, in view of the record in the state court which is
made a part of the record here. The case appears to have
been initiated by the filing of a trustee's account, in the
usual way. 'Notice was given to the interested. parties.
Objections to the account were .presented, and the matter
came on for hearing in due course, all parties being represented by counsel. The decree purports to decide issues
regularly submitted and not to be in any sense a consent
decree. The court ruled against the remaindermen on one
point, and in their favor on another-that here involved,-but refused to surcharge the trustee, for reasons
stated, and ordered repayment by the life tenants of overpayments of income consequent on the trustees failure to.
withhold sums for a depreciation reserve.
But, it is said, the life beneficiaries gave their notes for
the indebtedness due by them to the trust, as determined
by the state court, some of which were jointly executed

46

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court..

291 U.S.

by those who would take in remainder, and therefore these
beneficiaries are permitted to retain and enjoy the full
amounts distributed to them without reference to proper
deduotions for depreciation, and are therefore taxable
thereon as income distributed.
After the decree had been entered two of the life beneficiaries delivered their own notes to the trustee. One
life beneficiary, who may become possessed of an interest
in remainder, gave her note. Louise P. V. Whitcomb's
daughter, a life beneficiary, executed her note, in which
her two children, who are possible takers in remainder,
joined. The notes were without interest, and were payable to the order of those who should be entitled in remainder at the termination of the trust. The persons so
entitled are the descendants of the two children of the
testator, per stirpes. What persons if any may fill this
description is of course unknown. In the event of the
failure of issue the ultimate remainder is to Harvard
College.
The parties evidently proceeded upon the theory that
if the fund were restored to the trust it would be invested
and the life beneficiaries would receive the income from
it, and that a satisfactory settlement of the matter would
be to have the life beneficiaries give their notes payable
at the termination of the trust. At most this form of
settlement amounted to a concession or gift on the part
of the remaindermen to the life beneficiaries. Any advantage obtained by the latter through the adjustment
was obviously not effected by the state court's decree,
but by the voluntary action of the remairddermen. The
decree was a judgment which fixed the rights of the remaindermen and the obligations of the life tenants. If
the parties in interest chose to adjust these obligations
in some manner other than, by present payment of cash,
their action in no wise altered the quality of the trustee's
overpayments of income. We cannot seize on the form of

FREULER v. HELVERING.
35

CARDOZO, J., dissenting.

the settlement made between the parties either to impugn
the good faith and judicial character of the state court's
decree, or to ignore the decree and its conclusiveness as to
what was in fact and in law income distributable to the
beneficiaries under the trust.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO, dissenting.-

I assume for present purposes that the duty of the
trustee under the will of Mr. Whitcomb has been adjudicated without fraud or collusion by the Superior Court of
California, and that the taxing officers of the United
States as well as the parties to the accounting must govern
themselves accordingly.
. I dissent from the conclusion that the effect of the
adjudication is to diminish the taxable income of the life
beneficiaries to the extent of the difference between the
amount actually distributed and the amount that would
have been distributed if the trustee had done his duty.
By the decree in its first form, the court adjudged that
the trustee was at fault in failing to make an. annual
reserve for depreciation for the years 1913 to 1927 inclusive, but also adjudged that he had acted in good faith
after obtaining the advice of counsel, and should therefore
be relieved of any personal liability. By the same decree
the recipients of the income were directed to repay to the
trustee the excess payments. (amounting in all to $622,440.90) "by making, executing and delivering to said
Trustee their respective promissory notes payable without
interest at the termination of said trust to the order ofthe remaindermen under said trust as they may be determined at the time of the termination of said trust."
By an amended decree made the same day (September
19, 1928) the direction to make payment by the delivery
of promissory notes was omitted, and the decree there-

48

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
CARDozo, J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

upon stood as oie commanding payment simply, without
statement of the time or manner.
The recipients of the income reverted at once to the
method of payment prescrited by the original decree, and
did so with the approval of the trustee and the presiimptive owners of the remainder. , Charlotte A. Lepic, a
daughter of the testator, and a life beneficiary, made her
promissory note for $305,867.06. payable without interest
at the termination of the trust, and her two children,
Napoleon and Charlotte, wbose interest was solely as
remaindermen, were co-makers with her. Louise Whitcomb, a daughter of a deceased son of the testator, made
a note for $118,353.85, signing by her guardian.., Her
interest was partly that of -a beneficiary, and partly as
the prestimptive owner of an estate in remainder. Lydia,
whose interest was the same as that of Louise, made her
note- for a like amount. Marie, the widow of the deceased son, made her note for $69,159.35. Her interest
was in income only. All the notes were payable to the
order of .'-the remaindermen under the said trust as they
may be determined to be" when the trust is at an end.
All were without interest. The sum total of the notes.
is substantially equal to the total overpayments, except.
for $10,700, paid in cash by the administrator of the
widow of the testator who died during the pendency of
these proceedings. There is nothing to show that the
cash was applied upon account of the overpayment due
for the years covered by the assessment. In the absence
of iuch evidence, the law appropriates the payment to
the items first in point of time. The conclusion therefore
follows that as to any overpayments made by the trustee
during the years of the contested liability for taxes, the.
limit of any obligation now resting on the beneficiaries'of
the trust is the payment of these promissory notes to the

FREULER v. HELVERING.
35

CAnoozo, J., dissenting.

persons entitled in remainder when the' trust shall
terminate.
I assume in aid of the petitioner that an enforcible duty
of repayment existing at the time of an assessment of a
tax will call for the reduction of the taxable'income to
.the same extent as if repayment has been actually made,
though much can be said lfrsupport of another view. The
existence of a duty is, however, an indispensable condition. If money distributed to a beneficiary- is to be freed
from taxation on the ground that, though received and
enjoyed, it..will have to be returned' the recipient must
make it plain that burden and benefit are exact equivalents. He must show that. the effect of the fulfilment of
the obligation .to repay will be to cancel all the gain, and
leave him in the same position as if the income had never
been received.
. At the time of. the review of these assessments by the
Board of Tax Appeals, the California court had announced
by'its decree that the trustee had distributed to the beneficiaries more income than was due; but the presumptive
owners of the remainders had exonerated the recipients
from any duty of repayment until the end of the trust,
and then without interest upon moneys overpaid. In
effect, the act of the fiduciary had been adopted and confirmed to a proportionate extent.* Whether there was
ratification or confirmation in a strict and narrow sense
is not decisive of the controversy. The law of taxation
is more concerned With the substance of economic opportunity than witl classifying legal concepts, and tagging
them with names and labels. Burnet v. Harmel, 287 US.
103. If the testator had stated in so many words that
there should be no deduction for depreciation in distributCf. American Law Institute, Restatement of the Law of Trusts,
§'210.

s}OCTOBER

TERM, 1933.
CAiDozo, J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

ing the income, but that at the termination of the trust
the beneficiaries would owe to the remaindermen without
interest a sum equivalent to the deduction that would
otherwise have been made, the result in its practical aspect
would have been identical with the one achieved under
this will through confirmation or consent. Here the
parties by agreement have made their. own rule, which
relates back to the year when the income was received.
To put the case in another way: the remaindermen
might have signed an order before the income was paid
over directing the trustee to make no deduction for depreciation of the trust. They did not do so then, but
by relation backwards they did it afterwards. Without
the aid of the agreement the decree of the California court
would have imposed upon the trustee a duty to use diligent endeavor to collect without delay the inoneys misapplied., Through the acceptance of these notes the presumptive owners of the remainders absolved him from
that duty and thus confirmed his action. Consent or confirmation may supplement a will or deed of trust, with
the result that income "distributed" will have become
"distributable" also. It may work a like result where
the meaning of the instrument has been established by
an "order" of a court. The order is no more than evidence of preexisting rights and duties. If the obligation
to make restitution had beeil extinguished for all time,
and the agreement extinguishing it had been proved to
the assessing officers before the assessment became final,
a court would listen with little patience to the taxpayer's
complaint that a tax was not due because there had been
an interval during which the money would have been reclaimable if the law had run its course. The situation is
not different in principle where the benefits confirmed to
the recipients of the income are something less than they
would be if the duty to return had been extinguished
altogether.

FREULER v. HELVERING.
35

CARDozo, J., dissenting.

For the benefits, though not complete, are not illusory
or trivial. The Commissioner's assessment is supported
by a presumption of correctness. If a taxpayer would
overthrow it, he has the burden of proving it erroneous,
and of fixing in dollars and cents the amount of the error.
By the decision just announced, the taxpayer is relieved
of that burden. He has received upon 'account of his
taxable income an allowance of the face amount of an
indebtedness payable in the future without deduction for
the benefits resulting from the time and manner of the
payment. How substantial those benefits are will be
obvious if we let them pass before us in review.
The beneficiaries, instead of restoring the overpaid income to the corpus of the estate, are permitted to retain
it until the termination of'the trust and to dispose of it
as their own. They gain thereby the benefit of investing
or consuming, with the opportunity for profit or enjoyment that goes along with such a privilege. If gain is
derived, it is theirs without accountability to any one.
If a loss ensues and the money is used up, a court of
bankruptcy is open to them, in the event of their insolvency, to discharge the liability. At the making of the
notes, their resources may have been adequate to enable
them to restore what had been unlawfully obtained. At
the time when the notes become due, they may find themselves without a dollar except their interest in the trust
estate.
But this does not exhaust the catalogue of benefits. In
any reckoning of these, account must be taken of the
relation of kinship between makers and payees. Except
in remote contingencies the notes will be payable either
to the children or descendants of the makers, or to the
makers themselves. If the makers are dead at the termination of the trust, they will have had it in their power
to write a clause into their wills requiring their descendants who elect to take under }the wills to cancel any claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

52

CARDozo, J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

that has accrued upon the notes. If the makers are then
alive, they will have put their names to notes that will
be payable to themselves. There is grave doubt, to say
the least, whether any one of them will uver have to pay
a dollar.
. Up to this, attention has been confined to terms of
the notes that have to do with the restitution of the principal. The postponement of payment of the principal
was, however, accompanied by a provision that there
should be no liability for interest. On its face this was
a gain. The argument is made, however, that the gain
is unreal for the reason that the overpayments, if restored, would be accretions to the corpus of the trust, and
that the income on the accretions would be due to the
same persons absolved from liability for interest. But
this is only a part truth. The makers gained the difference between interest at the legal rate upon the principal
of the notes and the lower rate of income likely to be
earned by a trustee who invests the funds of a trust in
conformity with law. What is even more important, they
gained the privilege in the meantime of retaining for
themselves what would otherwise be principal in the
hands of the trustee and of using it as they pleased.
These are important benefits. They ,would be unhesitatingly recognized as such by any investor or by any
man of business. Some account should be taken of them
before we say that the income of the trust was not income in the hands of the beneficiaries, who received it as
their own and who for all that appears may never come
under a duty to pay-it back to any one.
I think the Court of Appeals did not err in upholding
the assessment and that its decree should be. affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

this dissent.

and MR. JUSTICE STONE join in

