OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

Mr. Moreau P. Estes, with whom Messrs. P. M. Estes
and Myron T. Nailling were on the brief, for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOzo delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In a suit upon a policy of accident insurance, the respondent recovered a judgment in accordance with a
stipulation declaring the extent of the liability if the
insurer was liable at all.
Attorney's fees and twelve per cent damages were added
to the recovery in accordance with the statute. Section
6155, Arkansas Digest, Crawford & Moses, 1921.
The case presents the same question as No. 89, Life &
Casualty Ins. Co. of Tennessee v. McCray, ante, p. 566,
and is ruled by that decision.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

TRAVELERS PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION OF
AMERICA v. PRINSEN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 429.

Argued February 9, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

A certificate of membership in a fraternal benefit association providing benefits for accidental death, exempts the association if
death occur "when" a member is "participating" in the transportation of explosives. In this case, the assured, an officer of a
powder company, for the purpose of making delivery of a large
quantity of dynamite caps ordered by a customer, rode in the
customer's truck, driven by the customer's agent, from the company's office to the company's magazine beyond the city limits,
where the goods were loaded on the vehicle. On the return trip to
the office, where the assured was to be let off, the truck, still
driven by the agent, was in collision with a train. There was an

TRAVELERS ASSN. v. PRINSEN.
576

Opinion of the Court.

immediate explosion, the truck was destroyed, 'and the assured
was blown to pieces. Held:
1. At the time of his death, the assurred was "participating" in
the moving or transportation of the dynamite caps within the
meaning of the certificate, and there could be no recovery on the
certificate. P. 579.
2. The assured was more than a voluntary guest on the vehicle;
he was a business "invitee." P. 580.
3. To exempt the insurer, it was not necessary to find a causal
connection between the death and the forbidden act, since the
effect of that act was to aggravate the hazard in the very event
that happened. P. 581.
65 F. (2d) 841, reversed.

CERTIoRA I, 290 U.S. 618, to review a judgment reversing a judgment for the ?rotective Association in a suit
brought by the beneficiary upon a certificate of membership.
Mr. Emmett M. Bagley, with whom Mr. Paul H. Ray
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Joseph H. Peterson, with whom Messrs. Harley
W. Gustin and D. Worth Clark were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CADozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
James Prinsen when he died was a member of the petitioner, a fraternal benefit association, incorporated under
the laws of Missouri. By his certificate of membership,
benefits in case of death were payable to his wife, Uluetta
Prinsen, the respondent in this court. The payment to be
made to her in the event of death by accident was $5,000,
unless the accident occurred while the member was engaged in enumerated activities. Death suffered in such
circumstances was excluded from the coverage. By the
terms of the certificate the association was not to be liable
if disability or death occurred "when a member is par-

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

ticipating . . . in the moving or transportation of gunpowder, dynamite, or other explosive substance or substances." '

At the time of his death Prinsen was an officer of the
Western Powder Company, which had an office in Salt
Lake City, Utah, and a powder magazine outside the city
limits. The Tintic Powder and Supply Company gave
an order to the Hercules Powder Company for 300,000
dynamite caps, and the Hercules company asked the
Western company to fill the order. The request was received by Prinsen, and with it a notice that within a few
days the Hercules representative, Begaman, would come
to Salt Lake City to accept delivery. On February 3,
1931, Begaman appeared at the Western office with a
1The

full text of the exception follows: "This Association shall not

be liable to a member or his beneficiary for any disability benefits,
special loss benefits or death benefits, when the disability, special loss,
or death of a member occurs under any of the following conditions
or circumstances; when inflicted by a member on himself, while sane
or insane; when there are no visible marks of injury upon the body
(the body itself not being deemed such a mark in case of death);
when or while a member is in any degree under the influence of intoxicating liquor or liquors or of any narcotic or narcotics; when
caused wholly or in part by reason of or in consequence of the use
of intoxicating liquor or liquors or the use of any narcotic or narcotics; when caused wholly or in part by any bodily or mental infirmity or disease, dueling, fighting, or wrestling; when or while a
member is acting as a sailor or soldier or is participating in war or
riot; when or while a member is acting as an aviator or balloonist
or is participating in aerial navigation or aeronautics of any kind
either as a passenger, operator or assistant; when a member is participating in public or agreed automobile racing, or in wrecking,
mining, blasting, or in the moving or transportation of gunpowder,
dynamite, or other explosive substance or substances; when a member is murdered; when resulting from -hazardous adventure or an
altercation or quarrel; when there is a disappearance of a member;
when the result of voluntary over-exertion (unless in a humane effort
to save a human life); when the result of voluntary or unnecessary
exposure to danger or to obvious risk of injury."

TRAVELERS ASSN. v. PRINSEN.
576

579

Opinion of the Court.

motor truck in which he was to carry the explosives. He
and Prinsen then drove to the magazine beyond the city.
The magazine was opened with a key which Prinsen had
brought with him, and delivery of the caps was made
by piling them in boxes on the truck. The two men then
boarded the truck again to go back to the Western office,
Begaman driving the car, and Prinsen sitting beside him
on the box. A small additional payment was made by
Hercules to Western for the trip to the magazine, but
Tintic, not Hercules, was the owner of the truck. On the
way back, the truck was in collision with an engine while
crossing the tracks of the Denver and Rio Grande Railroad. There was an immediate explosion, in which the
truck was destroyed and Prinsen was blown to pieces.
Begaman and the railway engineer were killed at the
same time.
The respondent brought suit on the membership certificate to recover the benefits payable in the event of
death by accident. The association defended on the
ground that the member was killed while "participating"
in the transportation of explosives. In the District Court
a verdict was directed in favor of the defendant. The
Court of Appeals reversed, one judge dissenting. 65 F.
(2d) 841. This court granted certiorari to resolve a possible conflict with other federal decisions. Pittman V.
Lamar Life Ins. Co., 17 F. (2d) 370; Head v. New York
Life Ins. Co., 43 F. (2d) 517.
We assume in favor of the respondent that "participation" in the carriage of explosives imports something
more than the presence of the assured in the vehicle of
carriage. One who becomes a passenger in an aeroplane
may thereby participate in aeronautics (cf. Head v. New
York Life Ins. Co., supra; Bew v. Travelers Ins. Co., 95
N.J.L. 533; 112.Atl. 859; Pittman v. Lamar Life Ins. Co.,
supra), but it does not follow that he participates in the

carriage of the mails, and this though the plane to his

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

knowledge is in part devoted to that use. One who travels
in a sleeping car does not participate thereby in the movement of explosives, though information is brought home
to him that in a baggage car forward explosives are in
transit. But Prinsen's relation to this enterprise was not
so remote or pasive as the relation of the passenger in
the cases just supposed. He had gone upon a truck which
had been specially devoted by its owner to the transportation of explosives, and had gone there for the very purpose of making transportation possible. The respondent
would have us split into separate parts a transaction
that is unitary in aim and essence. Plainly the assured
was facilitating the delivery of explosives in traveling
with Begaman to the suburban magazine. Plainly he was
still engaged in and about a like service when he opened
the magazine and placed the caps upon the truck. But
his participation in the errand did not end abruptly then
and there. The return journey to his office had the same
motive and occasion that induced the journey out. It
was
not an adventitious incident that there
were explosives in the truck when he left the magazine. To the
contrary, it was part of the plan from the beginning that
the truck should take him out, and then, when laden,
take him back. To say that he was riding on the truck
"while" explosives were transported is to state but half
the case. The case is rather this, that he was riding on
the truck "because" explosives were transported. If
he had not known in advance that this was the substance
to be carried, he would not have stirred out of his office.
There was a relation more intimate than contiguity in
time or space between his presence on. the truck and the
presence of the explosive caps. The relation was no
accident; it was pre-ordained and causal.
The respondent tells us that the assured at the time of
the collision was a voluntary guest, and makes mucl of

TRAVELERS ASSN. v. PRINSEN.
576

Opinion of the Court.

the label. The payment or non-payment of a fare has
little, if any, bearing upon the problem to be solved, yet
the label, unless scrutinized, may have capacity to mislead. In his relation to this enterprise, Prinsen was more
than a voluntary guest. He was a business "invitee,"
riding out and back at the invitation of the owner because
of a business interest common to them both. Bennett v.
Railroad Co., 102 U.S. 577, 582, 584; Heskell v. Auburn
L., H. & P. Co., 209 N.Y. 86; 102 N.E. 540; Haefeli v.
Woodrich Engineering Co., 255 N.Y. 442, 448; 175 N.E.
123; Indermaur v. Dames, L.R. 1 C.P. 274; American
Law Institute, Restatement of Torts, Tentative Draft,
No. 4, ยง ยง 202, 213. We may see the case more clearly
if we ask ourselves the question whether Begaman would
have been free to leave the "guest" at the magazine after
delivery of the caps, and refuse to bring him home.
Plainly not, without breach of duty to the Tintic company, the employer, which had sent the car out with instructions to the driver to carry Prinsen back. The result is all one whether the instructions in respect of carriage were tacit or express. By reasonable implication,
the return trip as well as the outward one was within the
orbit of the errand. Cudahy Packing Co. v. Parramore,
263 U.S. 418, 426; Bountiful Brick Co. v. Giles, 276 U.S.
154, 158; Voehl v. Indemnity Ins. Co., 288 U.S. 162.
The argument is made that a causal connection between the death and the explosion is not a necessary inference from the facts in evidence. The assured was
blown to pieces, the fragments of his body being so small
that an autopsy was impossible. We are told that even
so the impact of the engine may have been fatal without
more. The contract does not say that the holder of the
policy is to have no claim against the insurer if he dies
"by reason of" his participation in the carriage of explosives. The contract says that he is to have no claim

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

against the insurer if he dies "when" he is participating
in the carriage of explosives, just as it provides for a like
result when he is acting as a sailor or a soldier, or is participating in war or riot, or is under the influence of narcotics or of intoxicating liquors.2 Courts of high authority
'have held that in policies so phrased there is no need of
any causal nexus between the injury or death and the forbidden forms of conduct.' While the proscribed activity
continues, the insurance is suspended as if it had never
been in force. Other courts prefer the view that to work
such a suspension, there must have been an aggravation
of the hazard to which death or injury was owing.' In
'A nice discrimination is maintained throughout the policy in. suit
between causes of the casualty and aggravations of the hazard. Thus,
liability is excluded when the accident is "the result" of voluntary
overexertion, or "the result" of voluntary or unnecessary exposure
to danger, or when" caused" by any bodily or mental infirmity or
disease. There is no such insistence upon a causal sequence when
the insurer is participating in a war or a riot, or in aeronautics or in
the transportation of explosives.
' Order of United Commercial Travelers v. Greer, 43 F. (2d) 499;
Flannaganv. Provident Life & Accident Ins. Co., 22 F. (2d) 136;
Murdie v. Maryland Casualty Co., 52 F. (2d) 888; Shader v. Railway
Passenger Ins. Co., 66 N.Y. 441; Conner v. Union Automobile Ins.
C6., 122 Cal. App. 105; 9 P. (2d) 863; Bradshawv. Farmers & Bankers Life Ins. Co., 107 Kan. 681; 193 Pac. 332; Order of United Commercial Travelers V. Tripp, 63 F. (2d) 37. Cf. U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Guenther, 281 U.S. 34; Metropolitan Life Ins. Co. v.
Conway, 252 N.Y. 449, 452; 169 N.E. 642.
"Matthes v. Imperial Accident Assn., 110 Iowa 223; 81 N.W. 484;
Bradley v. Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co., 45 N.Y. 422; ef. Jones v.
U.S. Mutual Accident Assn., 92 Iowa 652; 61 N.W. 485; Accident
Insurance Co. v. Bennett, 90 Tenn. 258; 16 S.W. 723; Murray v. New
York Life Ins. Co., 96 N.Y. 614; Benham v. American Central Life
Ins. Co., 140 Ark. 612; 217 S.W. 462; Kelly v. Fidelity Mutual Life
Ins. Co., 169 Wis. 274, 276; 172 N.W. 152; Bloom v. Franklin Life
Ins. Co., 97 Ind. 478; Cluff v. M. B. Life Ins. Co., 13 Allen 308.

TRAVELERS ASSN. v. PRINSEN.
576

Opinion of the Court.

that aspect the insurer might be liable if the insured had
fallen from the box while asleep or inattentive, the dynamite caps remaining unexploded in the truck. -So, policies
excluding liability while the assured is doing an act in
violation of the law have been read as directed to acts that
aggravate the danger, with the result that liability is
unaffected by violation of the Sunday laws or of the laws
against profanity. See the cases cited in note 4, supra.
In so far as these readings of the policy diverge, there
is no need to choose between them for the decision of the
case at hand, nor to search for a formula that may have
capacity to reconcile them. If the first meaning is accepted, the controversy ends. If the second is accepted,
'it is still clear beyond debate that the effect of the forbidden act was to magnify the risk of death in the event
of a collision, to aggravate the danger in the very event
that happened. Less than this may be required to relieve
the insurer of liability, but surely nothing more.
The good sense of this construction of the policy has
illustration in the case before us. At the very least the
explosion was a concurrent cause of death, if not indeed
the sole one. The policy does not mean that in the event
of a proscribed activity there shall be a segregation of
causes operating in unison and a distribution of the consequences assignable to each. One of the essential purposes to be served by the limitation of the risk is to put
an end to such a process of dissection and comparison.
By the form of its policy the insurer has given notice to
assured and beneficiary that it will refuse to become entangled in these mystifying subtleties. At the moment of
the casualty the insurance was suspended by an aggravation of the hazard, and suspended it remained till the
forbidden hazard was removed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed and
that of the District Court affirmed.
Reversed.
dissenting.
I think the judgment should be affirmed.
If "participation" means cobperation in the transportation, more than is involved in presence on the transporting
vehicle with the knowledge that an explosive is being.
carried, I can perceive no ground for saying that there was
participation here. That deceased had made the journey
to deliver the caps and, as a "business invitee," had
a right to return on the vehicle on which he had placed
it, seems to me as irrelevant as though the deceased had.
embarked as a passenger on a railroad train on which
the explosion occurred after he or his firm had shipped
dynamite upon it. By the terms of the policy, participation, to exclude liability, must be at the time of the injury.
After the return journey began, deceased did nothing to
facilitate the transportation. He neither controlled nor
had the right to control it. He was merely present. The
distinction drawn between this case and that of mere
presence, so difficult of statement and application, appears
to me to obscure rather than to define the meaning of the
term and to violate the cardinal principle that, so far as
their language reasonably admits, insurance contracts are
to be interpreted most favorably to the insured.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

CHASSANIOL v. CITY OF GREENWOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT .OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 428. Argued February 6, 1934.-Decided March 12, 1934.
The business of buying and selling cotton locally produced, processed
and warehoused, is local in character; and a local occupation tax
upon the buyer does not contravene the Commerce Clause, although
the course of the business be such that all of the cotton so bought is

