CHASE NATIONAL BANK v. NORWALK.
426

43i

Syllabus.

contrary. Doubtless, respondent's books indicated a decrease of liabilities with corresponding increase of net
assets.
Reversed.
CHASE NATIONAL BANK v. CITY OF NORWALK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT' COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 290.

Argued January 18, 19, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

1. An injunction may not extend to persons who merely acquire
notice of it but who are neither parties to the suit nor confederates
or associates of the defendant. P. 436.
2. A decree against a mortgagor with respect to property does not
bind a mortgagee whose interest was acquired before the commencement of the suit and who was not a party to it. P. 438.
3. In quo warranto brought by the State at the request of a city,
but to which, under the state law, the city could not be made a
party, there was a judgment of ouster against an electric power
company using the city streets, upon the ground that its franchise,
which it claimed to be perpetual, had in truth expired-held:
(1) That the trustee under an antecedent mortgage claiming a
valid subsisting lien on the company's property, including the franchise which it claimed to be perpetual, and who was not a party
to the quo warranto proceeding, was entitled to come into the
federal court in a suit against the city alone, on the ground of
diversity of citizenship, to protect its alleged property rights and
to have its claims there adjudicated. P. 437.
(2) That a decree in the suit, enjoining the city, its attorneys,
agents and confederates, (a) from removing the poles and wires
without state warrant, and (b) from attempting to induce the
State to enforce the judgment of ouster, would not be an injunction
staying the proceedings in the state court, within the meaning of
§ 265 of the Judicial Code. P. 439.
4. Though one seeking an injunction against a judgment on the
ground of fraud or mistake should show that he had no opportunity to correct the judgment in the original proceeding and was
not lacking in diligence, such a showing is unnecessary where, be-

432.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

cause he was neither party nor privy, the judgment was inoperative. as to him. P. 440.
'5. Where the Circuit Court of Appeils hbq erroncously directed the
dismissal of a suit without passing on' the merits, the cause will be
remanded to that court for further proceedings. P. 441.
63 F. (2d) 911, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 614, to review a decree reversing

a final decree of injunction in a suit brought by the bank,
as trustee of bondholders of an electric power .company,
to prevent the city from removing its poles and wires from
the streets and from seeking to enforce a decree of ouster
secured by the State against the mortgagor company.
Mr. George D. Welles, with whom Messrs. Earl F. Boxell, Arthur A. Gammell, and Timothy N. Pfeifer were
on the brief, for petitioner.

Messrs. G. Ray Craig and H. C. Laughlin, with whom
.Messrs. Rex F. Bracy, E. G. Martin, and W. A. Eversman
were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered
the opinion of the
Court.
This case is here on certiorari to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Whether
the injunction granted in this cause by the federal court
for northern Ohio stays a judgment of ouster rendered
by the Court of Appeals of the State in violation of.
Judicial Code § 265 is the main question requiring
decision.'
In May, 1925, The Ohio Electric Power Company acquired the electric light and heating system then serv'Sec. 265. "The writ of injunction shall not be granted by any
coprt of the United States to stay -proceedings in any court of a
State, except in cases where such injunction may be authorized by
any law relating to proceedings in bankruptcy."

CHASE NATIONAL BANK v. NORWALK.
431

433

Opinion of the Cort.

ing a part of the residents of the City of Norwalk, Ohio;
and by a duly recorded mortgage deed of trust, transferred
the property to a trustee to secure an issue of bonds. In
March, 1926, the City Council passed a resolution in terms
requiring the Power Company to remove from the streets,
alleys and other public places within 30 days, its poles,
wires and other electric equipment. These had been
erected and were being maintained pursuant to an ordinance of the City, dated October 7, 1890. The City
claimed that the Power Company had no right so to occupy the streets, alleys and public places, because the
franchise granted by the ordinance was for a limited term
and that term had expired without extension or renewal.
The Power Company refused to comply with the City's
demand, claiming that it had, under legislation of the
State, acquired a perpetual franchise.
In May, 1926, the State brought, in the Court of Appeals of Ohio, at the relation of the prosecuting attorney
for Huron County, an action in quo warranto against the
Power Company to oust it from such use of the streets,
alleys and public places. That court, holding that the
franchise granted had expired, entered a judgment of
ouster, State ex rel. Martin v. Ohio Electric Power Co.,
35 Ohio App. 481; 172 N.E. 615; and the judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. Ohio Electric Power Co. v. State ex rel. Martin, 121 Ohio St. 235;
167 N.E. 877. The action had been instituted at the request, and had been prosecuted with the aid, of the City;
but it was not a party thereto. The mortgage given by
the Power Company and the bonds thereby secured were
then (and still are) outstanding: But the State did not
make the trustee a party respondent; and the trustee
did not intervene, or seek to intervene, in the action.
Neither the State nor. the Power Company made mention of the existence (if the mortgage either in its plead-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

ings or otherwise. Whether the State, the relator, or the
City knew of the mortgage, and whether the trustee knew
of the action in quo warranto,does not appear.
Before any step had been taken by the State to enforce
the judgment of ouster, the then trustee under the mortgage deed of trust, a citizen and resident of New York,
brought this suit in the federal district court for northern
Ohio. The Chase National Bank, likewise a citizen and
resident of New York, has since been substituted as trustee
and plaintiff. The City of Norwalk alone was made defendant. The bill set forth in addition to the facts stated
above, that the plaintiff as such trustee is entitled to the
continued use of the poles, wires and electrical equipment by the Power Company; that the judgment of ouster
has not yet been executed; that the Power Company is
still serving the Norwalk public; that the City is threatening to destroy, or forcibly remove, the poles, wires and
equipment from the streets, alleys, and public places and
to prevent the operation of the system or to seek to have
enforced the judgment of ouster; and that such acts would
result in irreparable injury to the plaintiff.
The District Court held that the plaintiff has as mortgagee a good and valid lien upon the poles, wires and electrical equipment, and the rights and franchises to use the
streets, alleys and public places therefor; that " for the
purpose of protecting, preserving and enforcing the lien
of the mortgage" the Power Company "is and was at
the time of the filing of the bill of complaint herein the
owner"; that these rights were granted "in perpetuity as
against any right or power of the City of Norwalk with
reference thereto . . ."; and that the "franchises, rights

and physical properties will be destroyed and rendered
worthless" unless a permanent injunction issues. The decree enjoined' the City, its officers, agents and employees,
".and all persons whomsoever to whom notice of this order
shall come," from destroying, or interfering with the con-

CHASE NATIONAL BANK v. NORWALK.
431

435

Opinion of the Court.

tinued operation by the Power Company of, the plant and
distribution system; "from taking any steps or action of
any kind whatever to cause the enforcement or carrying
out by the Sheriff of Huron County, Ohio, . . . of the
judgment of ouster "; and " from applying to any of the
courts of the State of Ohio for any writ, process or order
of any kind whatever for the purpose of enforcing and
carrying out said judgment of ouster." The injunction
was granted to continue only as long as the plaintiff or its
successor, or holders of bonds under the mortgage, should
have any interest in or lien upon the properties and franchises of the Power Company in the City of Norwalk.
The Circuit Court of Appeals did not pass upon the
question whether the plaintiff has, as mortgagee, an interest in or lien upon the alleged property and rights; nor
upon the question whether the Power Company retains
for the protection of the mortgagee, an existing right to
use the streets, alleys and public places as claimed; nor
specifically upon the question whether the franchises
granted had expired. It held, one judge dissenting, that,
although the District Court had jurisdiction of the parties
and of the subject matter, that court was not justified in
granting an injunction; and it reversed the decree with
directions to dismiss the bill, 63 F. (2d) 911, for the following reasons:
(a) That the proceedings in the District Court came
within the inhibitions of Judicial Code, § 265, in that the
effect of the decree was to stay the quo warranto proceeding in the state courts.
(b) That the case does not fall within the exceptions
which permit a federal court to interfere with the judgment of a state court, because there was no showing that
the judgment in the action in quo warranto was void for
lack of jurisdiction, or was based upon fraud or upon such
accident or mistake as made its enforcement unconscionable.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

(c) That because the plaintiff has not shown that it
lacked knowledge of the action in quo warranto, or that
it could not have intervened therein as mortgagee, and
have asserted therein the claim which it presents now as
the basis of the relief sought, it has failed to make the
necessary showing of diligence.
There was error in the decree entered by the District
Court; but the Circuit Court of Appeals was not justified
in ordering that the bill be dismissed.
First. Independently of the prohibition of Judicial
Code, § 265, the decree entered by the District Court was
clearly erroneous in so far as it enjoined "all persons to
whom notice of the order of injunction should come from
taking any steps or action of any kind to cause the enforcement of the ouster in the state court." The City
alone was named as defendant. No person other than the
City was served with process. None came otherwise before the court. The prayer of the bill sought relief solely
against the City and " its officers, officials, agents, employees and representatives." ' It is true that persons
not technically agents or employees may be specifically
enjoined from knowingly aiding a defendant in performing a prohibited act if their relation is that of associate
or confederate. Since such persons are legally identified
with the defendant and privy to his contempt, the provi'The prayer is that "the City of Norwalk, and the officers, officials, agents, employees and representatives of said defendant" be
enjoined " from in any manner interfering with or interrupting the
continued operation of the plant and electrical distribution system of
the Ohio Electric Power Company, in the streets, alleys and other
public places of the City of Norwalk and from taking any steps or
doing any act to dismantle, wreck or remove any part of said system . . ." and "from taking any steps or action of any kind ivhatever to cause the enforcement or carrying out by the Sheriff of Huron
County, Ohio, or any of his deputies, or by any other officer of any
of the courts in the State of Ohio, of the judgment of ouster. ..."
(The latter prohibition to apply also to the attorneys of the City.)

CHASE NATIONAL BANK v. NORWALK.
431

437

Opinion of the Court.

sion merely makes explicit as to them that which the law
already implies. See In re Lennon, 166 U.S. 548. But
by extending the injunction to "all persons to whom
notice of the injunction should come," the District Court
assumed to make punishable as a contempt the conduct
of persons who act independently and whose rights have
not been adjudged according to law.3 See Alernite M1fg.
Co. v. Staff, 42 F. (2d) 832. Under the clause inserted
in the decree, officials of the State of Ohio might be proceeded against for contempt, if they should apply to the
state court to enforce its judgment, although acting solely
in the performance of their official duty. To subject
them to such peril violates established principles of
equity jurisdiction and procedure. Scott v. Donald, 165
U.S. 107, 117; Hitch wan Coal & Coke Co. v. Mitchell,
245 U.S. 229, 234.4 Those principles require that the
clause be limited to confederates or associates of the
defendant.
Second. On the other hand, the decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals was clearly erroneous in so far as it refused to enjoin the "city and its agents from forcibly
removing the wires and poles without state warrant."
The trustee claimed that it had a valid mortgage lien upon
the poles, wires and electrical equipment, and. upon the
right and franchise in perpetuity to use them on the
streets, alleys and public places; and the bill alleged that
removal by the City of the poles and wires would result
in irreparable injury to the trustee. Neither the trustee
nor the City had been a party, or privy, to the litigation
in the state courts. These courts did not purport to pass
'Harvey v. Bettis, 35 F. (2d) .349'; Donaldson v. Roksament Stone
Co., 178 Fed. 103; Bliss v. Atlantic Handle Co., 212 Fed. 190; Omeliah v. American Cap Front Co., 195 Fed. 539, 540. Compare Tosh v.
West Kentucky Coal Co., 252 Fed. 44, 48.
'Compare United States Playing Card Co. v. Spalding, 92 Fed
368, 369,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

upon the validity of the trustee's claim; and in no state
court was that claim in litigation. However broad the
scope of the prohibition prescribed by Judicial Code,
§ 265, it could not preclude the federal court from protcting the trustee's alleged property. from wanton
destruction by one not a party or privy to the judgment
o ouster.
The contention is that in essence this "is a suit by a
mortgagee to obtain a readjudication of the law and facts
adjudicated by a state court of competent jurisdiction in a
proceeding to which the mortgagor was a party "; and
that, since the controlling question is one of the construction and application of statutes of Ohio, a federal court
would, in any event, follow the decision of the highest
court of the State. It is true that, in the absence of special circumstances, federal courts consider themselves
bound by the construction theretofore given by the highest court of a State to its statutes. But, under well settled principles of jurisdiction, governing all courts, a decree against a mortgagor with respect to property does
not bind a mortgagee whose interest was acquired before
the commencement of the suit, unless he was made a party
to the proceedings. Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omr(aha, 230
U.S. 100, 122.' For in every case where a mortgage was
given before the litigation against the mortgagor was instituted, the mortgagee is entitled to have a decision determining his rights rendered on the basis of the facts and
considerations adduced by him. Obviously, -the facts and
considerations affecting the trustee's rights may be differ'Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati,76 Fed. 296; Old Colony Trust
Co. v. Tacoma, 219 Fed. 775, 776; Illinois Trust & Savings Bank v.
Des Moines, 224 Fed. 620, 624; Williamson v. Clay Center, 237 Fed.
329, 335. Compare Dull v. Blackman, 169 U.S. 243; Bigelow v. Old
Dominion Copper Co., 225 U.S. 111; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Newport, 247 U.S. 464, 476; Doctor Jackpot Mining Co. v. Marsh, 216

Fed. 261.

CHASE NATIONAL BANK v. NORWALK.
431

439

Opinion of the Court.

ent from those presented to the state court on behalf of
the Power Company. Because there is diversity of citizenship, the trustee under the mortgage is entitled to have
the adjudication of his alleged rights made in the federal
court. Compare Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Wells,
265 U.S. 101. As a decree enjoining the City "from removing the wires and poles without state warrant" would
not interfere with the proceedings in the state court, that
part of the injunction was not within the prohibition of
Judicial Code, § 265. Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati,
76 Fed. 296, 300, 317.
Third. The contention that the decree violates Judicial
Code § 265. is rested mainly upon the clause which enjoins
the City, its officers and attorneys "from taking any
steps or action of any kind whatever to cause the enforcement or carrying out by the sheriff of Huron County,
Ohio, or any of his deputies, or by any other officer of
any of the courts in the State of Ohio'of the judgment of
ouster" and "from applying to any of the courts of the
State of Ohio for any writ or process of any kind whatever for the purpose of enforcing and carrying out said
judgment of ouster."
To enjoin the City from taking steps to enforce the
judgment of ouster obviously does not stay that judgment. The City was not, and could not have been a
party to the action in quo warranto.' The City's argu'The City states that it was not, and could not have been made, a
party to the quo warranto proceedings; that the fact that quo warranto proceedings are brought by the State in its sovereign capacity
is not a mere matter of form, but is of the essence of the proceeding;
and that it is public not personal in nature, regardless of the person
who furnishes the information upon which the action is based. In
support of this proposition the City cited State v. Maccabees, 109
Ohio State 454; 142 N.E. 888; State v. Conservancy District, 100
Ohio State 483; 128 N.E. 87; Hardin-Wyandot Co. v. Upper Sandusky, 93 Ohio State 428; 113 N.E. 402; Thompson v. Watson, 48
Ohio State 552; 31 N.E. 742; State v. Craig, 21 Ohio C.C. 175.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

ment is that the decree can have no effect unless it acts
directly upon the Court of Appeals of Huron County
itself, and upon the State of Ohio, which was the moving
party in the quo warranto proceeding, and that hence,
this action is an attempt to do so; that "the incidental
effect of the decree upon the possible unauthorized action
of the city officials is too negligible to be given consideration in determining its character "; and that the real purpose for which the decree was sought is to stay the proceeding in the state court. It may be assumed that in
seeking an injunction from the federal court, the trustee's
purpose-its hope-was to induce the officials of the
State of Ohio to refrain from enforcing the judgment of
ouster until adjudidation of the trustee's rights should
have been had in the federal court. That purpose or
hope is not of legal significance in this connection. Full
control of the ouster proceeding rests with the law officers
of the State, subject to the control of the state court.
See Thompson v. Watson, 48 Ohio State 552; 31 N.E. 742.
The injunction, when limited as we hold it mtist be, is
directed only to the City, its attorneys, agents and confederates. -It prohibits them from attempting to induce
the State to enforce the judgment of ouster. So limited,
the decree will leave the State and the relator free to act;
and the injunction will not stay the operation of the
judgment.
Fourth. The contention is also made that the Circuit
Court of Appeals properly ordered the bill dismissed because the trustee failed to allege, or prove, -that it did not
have knowledge of the proceeding in the state court or
that it could not have intervened therein, as mortgagee,
and asserted there the claims that it now makes as the
basis of. the relief sought. Where equitable relief is sought
on the ground that a judgment entered upon proper service in a court of competent jurisdiction was obtained

CHASE NATIONAL BANK v. NORWALK.
431

441

Opinion of the Court.

through fraud or mistake, or is being used fraudulently,
such a showing of diligence is ordinarily required. Crim
v. Handley, 94 U:S. 652; Brown v. Buena Vista, 96 U.S.
157; Knox County v. Harshman, 133 U.S. 152; Marshall
v. Holmes, 141 U.S. 589.' Compare Wells, Fargo & Co. v.
Taylor, 254 U.S. 175. But here the injunction is sought
on the ground that the judgment is inoperative as against
the plaintiff because it was neither party nor privy thereto
Compare Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Wells, 265 U.S.
101; Simon v. Southern Ry. Co., 236 U.S. 115; Old Colony Trust Co. v. Omaha, 230 U.S. 100.8 The law does
not impose upon any person absolutely entitled to a
hearing the burden of voluntary intervention in a suit
to which he is a stranger. Whether under the Ohio practice it would have been possible for the trustee to intervene, we have no occasion to determine.' Unless duly
summoned to appear in a legal proceeding, a person not
a privy may rest assured that a judgment recovered
therein will not affect his legal rights.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed.
As it did not pass upon the merits of the trustee's claim,
the cause is remanded to that court for further proceeding
in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
Louisville Trust Co. v. Cincinnati, 76 Fed. 296; Old Colony Trust
Co. v. Tacoma, 219 Fed. 775; Illinois Trust Co. v. Des Moines,-224
Fed. 620; Williamson v. Clay Center, 237 Fed. 329; Firestone Tire &
Rubber Co. v. Marlboro Cotton Mills, 282 Fed. 811; Seay v. Hawkins, 17 F. (2d) 710; but compare Denton v. Baker, 93 Fed. 46.
' Also compare National Surety Co. v. State Bank, 120 Fed. 593.
9
In Northern Ohio Traction & Light Co. v. Ohio, 245 U.S. 574, a
proceeding in quo warranto, in which the Traction Company alone.
was named as defendant, it appears from the record in this court,
that the Cleveland Trust Company, trustee under a mortgage, moved
in the Supreme Court of Ohio for leave to be made a party and to
file an answer; that consent thereto was given; that thereafter
motion was allowed; and that the answer was filed and replied to.

