OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

by the Act of 1917, has substituted for the action, given
in the alternative to heirs or personal representatives by
the Code of 1881, one vested exclusively in the personal
representative. It results that the petitioner could sue
only under the Act of 1917.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

MANHATTAN PROPERTIES, INC. v. IRVING
TRUST CO., TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.*
CERTIORARI

No. 505.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

Argued January 10, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. The claim of a landlord for future rents based on a covenant to
p'ay rent in a lease terminated by reintry on the bankruptcy of the
tenant, is not a provable debt under § 63 (a) of the Bankruptcy
Act. P. 332.
So held in view of the great weight of judicial authority construing that section and similar provisions of earlier Acts, and in
view of the legislative history of the subject.
2. The fact that a provision of a statute which has received a settled
construction from federal courts has remained unaltered notwithstanding that Congr6ss has repeatedly amended the statute inother
respects, is persuasive that the construction accords with the legislative intention. P. 336.
3. Sections 73-76, added to the Bankruptcy Act by the Act of
March 3, 1933, were enacted to permit extensions and compositions
not theretofore possible, for individuals only; and the clause of
§ 74 (a) providing that "A claim for future rent shall constitute a
proval le debt and shall be liquidated under § 63 (b) of this Act,"
is to be related to this novel procedure and not taken as an amendment of § 63 (a) or as declaratory of its meaning. P. 336.
4. A covenant by a tenant to indemnify the landlord for loss of rent
he may suffer during the residue of the term after reintry by the
*Together

wifl No. 506, Brown et al. v. Irving Trust Co., Trustee

in Bankruptcy, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.

MANHATTAN PROP. v. IRVING TR. CO.
320

321

Argument for Petitioners.

landlord upon the bankruptcy of the tenant, and which can come
into operation only after the bankruptcy, and only if the landlord
sees fit to regnter on that ground, is not a basis for a debt provable
in the bankruptcy proceedings. P. 338.
5. Such a covenant is not the equivalent of an agreement that bankruptcy shall be a breach of the lease and that the consequent damages to the lessor shall be measured by the difference between the
present value of the remainder of the term and the total rent to
fall due in the future. P. 338.
66 F. (2d) 470, 473, affirmed.

REVIEW by certiorari, 290 U.S. 619, of orders sustaining
the rejection of claims for loss of future rents, in two
bankruptcy cases.
Mr. William D. Mitchell, with whom Messrs. C. Dickerman Williams, Rollin Browne, Ralph Montgomery
Arkush, and Amos J. Peaslee were on the brief, for petitioners.
The lower courts have become involved in a maze of
technicalities and distinctions based on ancient maxims
of the law of landlord and tenant and developed by indemnity clauses, reentry clauses, ipso facto clauses, acceleration clauses, liquidated damage clauses, and a variety
of other covenants contained in modern leases. They
have to a large extent lost sight of fundamentals and of
the purposes of the Bankruptcy Act, and of the fact that
Congress may have intended that such claims should be
allowed, the tenant discharged from liability for future
rents, and the landlord allowed to share with other creditors in the distribution of assets.
The correct rule is to be found in the Bankruptcy Act
and in the decisions of this Court. Williams v. U.S.
Fidelity & G. Co., 236 U.S. 549; Central Trust Co. v.
Chicago Auditorium Assn., 240 U.S. 581; Win. Filene's
Sons Co. v. Weed, 245 U.S. 597; Gardiner v. Win. S.
Butler & Co., 2405 U.S. 603; Kothe v. R. C. Taylor Trust,
280 U.S. 224; Maynard v. Elliott, 283 U.S. 273.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Petitioners.

291 U.S.

To deny provability of such claims defeats the purposes
of the Act. It leaves the bankrupt liable indefinitely,
while denying the landlord the right to participate with
other contract creditors.
If the tenant be a corporation, it rarely is rehabilitated
after bankruptcy; and if the claim be not allowed in bankruptcy, the landlord is left to pursue the empty husk of a
corporation without assets. For all practical purposes
his claim is discharged. It is true he may resume possession, but the value of what he resumes is depreciated
below the rent contracted, otherwise he would have no
claim. The persons interested in the corporation may
organize a new one to take over the assets at bankruptcy
sale at a price which will satisfy other creditors or pay
them in full, and then continue the business and leave
the landlord to pursue a defunct corporation, with only
the possibility of mitigating his loss by renting the property for less than the original lease provided. How this
system works is well stated in an article on "Rent Claims
in Bankruptcy," 33 Col.L.Rev. 213. See 7 Univ.Cin.L.
Rev. 162.
Claims have been allowed on instalment contracts to
buy ice (In re Stern, 116 Fed. 604); contracts to buy cotton bagging (Lesser v. Gray, 236 U.S. 70); instalment
contracts to sell rubber (In re Portage Rubber Co., 296
Fed. 289); contracts to buy stock (In re Pettingill & Co.,
137 Fed. 143); employment contracts (Re Schultz &
Guthrie, 235 Fed. 907); annuities (Cobb v. Overman, 109
Fed. 65); and on contracts t o make monthly payments
similar to rents for the privilege of handling baggage at a
hotel (Central Trust Co. v. Chicago Auditorium Assn.,
240 U.S. 581).
There should be no distinction between leases having
special indemnity or ipso facto covenants and those which
have not.

MANHATTAN PROP. v. IRVING TR. CO. 323
320

Argument for Petitioners.

The special covenants have been relied on to remove
the element of contingency, to endeavor to make claims
absolute at the time of the filing of the petition, and also
to avoid the objection that a covenant to pay rent is
extinguished by the landlord's resumption of possession.
On the latter theory, these special covenants have been
said to substitute for the covenant to pay rent a personal
covenant of indemnity, the liability to perform which is
not extinguished as is the rent obligation by reintry.
There is supFort for this theory in Gardinerv. Butler, 245
U.S. 603, and in other decisions.
The resumption of possession is not the voluntary act of
the landlord; it is forced upon him by the bankruptcy.
For the purposes of the Bankruptcy Act the argument that
the obligation to pay rent no longer forms a basis for
awarding damage because the consideration for rent is the
possession of the land, is no more forcible than the argument that the obligation of the bankrupt to pay for goods
on future delivery is extinguished because the goods will
not be delivered to an insolvent purchaser.
The argument that reentry cancels the covenant to pay
rent,. the only covenant on which a claim could be based,
unless there is a special indemnity covenant, ignores the
fundamental purpose of the Bankruptcy Act as announced in Williams v. U.S. Fidelity & G. Co., and Maynard v. Elliott, supra. Cf. Central Trust Co. v. Chicago
Auditorium Assn., 240 U.S. 581.
On the narrower view as to the operation of the Bankruptcy Act, the claims involved in these cases are provable
because of the special indemnity covenants. In both
leases the parties expressly contracted for personal liability of the tenant to indemnify the landlord for loss of
rent consequent upon default or bankruptcy leading to
reentry and stipulated that resumption of possession of
the leased premises by the landlord would not discharge
that liability.

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Petitioners.

291 U.S.

The lease in No. 506 contains an indemnity clause in
substantially the form involved in the Filene case, except
that in the latter case the lease contained a liquidated
damage clause adopting the formula which is the ordinary
rule for computing the damage, and which is the rule
which may be adopted even where some other rule has
been contracted for. Central Trust Co. v. Chicago Auditorium Assn., supra; Sweatman's Appeal, 150 Pa. St. 369.
The lease in No. 505 contains an indemnity clause in
which the tenant agreed to reimburse the landlord from
month to month. In so far as such a covenant contemplates a continued liability of the tenant after discharge
in bankruptcy, it could not be operative, but nevertheless
the covenants of that lease sufficiently reserve a claim
against the tenant notwithstanding reentry.
Although the covenants in both leases provide the same
formula in case of bankruptcy as is provided in case of
default without bankruptcy, if the provision for future
liability of the tenant after bankruptcy is discarded, there
still remains the covenant for indemnity in case of default, which satisfies the rule in the Filene case. The
result is that in both cases the covenant for indemnity
may form the basis of the claim as a substitute for the
covenant for rent, and the objection that has sometimes
been offered to the provability of such claims, that a
rent covenant is extinguished by reentry, disappears from
the case.
The agreement of the tenant to indemnify his landlord
is itself an existing contractual obligation susceptible of
present valuation. Williams v. U.S. Fidelity & G. Co.,
236 U.S. 540; In re Buzzini, 183 Fed. 827, cited with approval by this Court in Maynard v. Elliott, 283 U.S. 273.
The provability of the indemnity covenant may be
based theoretically on the doctrine of anticipatory breach

MANHATTAN PROP. v. IRVING TR. CO.
320

325

Argument for Petitioners.

(cf. Equitable Trust Co. v. Westcrn Pacific Ry. Co., 244
Fed. 485, aff'd, 250 Fed. 327, cert. den., 246 U.S. 672; In
re Mullings Clothing Co., 238 Fed. 58, cert. den., 243 U.S.
635; Central Trust Co. v. Chicago Auditorium Assn., 240
U.S. 581; Re Fitz George, [1905] 1 K.B. 462); or on the
broad ground that any contractual obligation susceptible
of present liquidation, matured or unmatured, absolute
or conditional, may be proved in bankruptcy. Maynard
v. Elliott, supra; Restatement, Contracts, g 324. The
present value is the discounted difference between rental
value and rent reserved. Sweatrnan's Appeal, 150 Pa. St.
369, cited with approval in Win. Filene'sSons Co. v. JWeed,
supra.
The question has never been at rest in any circuit.
There is no rule of property involved..
Under the English system., landlords' claims for damages for loss of future rent where tenants become bankrupt have long been provable, without regard to the presence of special covenants. Mayor v. Steward, 4 Burr.
2439 (K.B. 1769); 32 and 33 Vict., c. 71, § 23 (1869);
Ex parte Llynvi Coal Co., L.R. 7 Ch. App. 28 (1871);
Ex parte Blake, 11 Ch. Div. 572 (1879); Bankruptcy Act
of 1883, 46 and 47 Vict., c. 57. See In re PantherLead C'0.
(1896), 1 Ch. Div. 978; Act of 1914, 4 and 5 Geo. V, c. 59,
.§ 30, 54. See also Ex parte Leather Sellers Co., 3 Morrell 126 (Q.B.D., 1886); Ex parte Verdi, 3 Morrell 218
(Q.B.D., 1886); Hardy v. Fothergill, L.R. 13 App. Cas.
358 (H.L., 1888); In 're Carruthers, 15 Reports 317,
2 Mansons 172 (1895).
The amendment to the Bankruptcy Act enacted March
3, 1933, to the effect that "a claim for future rents. shall
constitute a provable debt and shall be liquidated under
S'ection 63 (b) of. this Act " is declaratory and intended
to remove doubt as to the construction of the prior law,
and confirms our position.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

291 U.S.

Mr. Frederick H. Wood, with whom Messrs. Harold L.
Fiermanand William D. Whitney were on the brief, for
respondent.
The legislative and judicial history of the Bankruptcy
Act is persuasive, if not conclusive, that Congress did not
intend that claims for damages for loss of future rent
should be provable in bankruptcy.
Moreover, only compelling language in the Act itselfwhich is wanting therefrom-would warrant the rejection
of the construction placed upon the Act by the courts below, which is a construction accepted and followed with
substantial unanimity by bench and bar practically ever
since the enactment of the statute.
The amendment of March 3, 1933, was not, as asserted
by petitioners, declaratory of the intent of the Act as
originally passed.
The long accepted interpretation of the Act upon which
the decisions below are based, is consistent with the decisions of this Court and is supported by well established
and long recognized principles of law.
With regard to the law of England, it is pertinent to observe that it took an Act of Parliament to abolish the distinction based upon: what petitioners concede to be "the
technical law of landlord and tenant" and the law governing contracts relating to personalty or to the performance
of personal services.
The "technical law of landlord and tenant" is to be
found in the rule that, while breaches of executory contracts relating to personalty and to the performance of
personal services give rise to claims for damages, the landlord by reentry terminates all liability of the tenant to
pay rent, and that upon such reentry and termination no
cause of action in favor of the landlord for the recovery
of damages for the consequent loss of future rent arises.
Gardiner v. Butler, 245 U.S. 603; Central Trust Co. v.
Chicago Auditorium Assn., 240 U.S. 581. Breach of a

MANHATTAN PROP. v. IRVING TR. CO. 327
320

Argument for Respondent.

covenant to pay rent, followed by reentry and termination
by the landlord, would give rise to no cause of action in
favor of the landlord were the tenant solvent. Consequently, it gives rise to no claim where the breach of such
covenant is the result of bankruptcy. This being so, the
claim asserted is not even a contingent claim, since all
liability of the tenant, whatever the occasion for the default, is extinguished by reentry and termination of the
lease on the part of the landlord.
Distinguishing: Williams v. U.S. Fidelity & G. Co., 236
U.S. 549; Maynard v. Elliott, 283 U.S. 273; Kothe v.
R. C. Taylor Trust, 280 U.S. 224. Wm. Filene's Sons Co.
v. Weed, 245 U.S. 597, was in equity. The opinion intimates that the claim would not have been allowable in
bankruptcy. Cf. Gardinerv. Butler, supra.
The specific claims presented in these cases, arising
out of the particular covenants contained in the leases
before the Court, are in no event provable in bankruptcy.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed as
follows:, by Messrs. W. Randolph Montgomery, Edwin
M. Otterbourg,and Charles A. Houston, on behalf of the
National Association of Credit Men; Messrs. Joseph F.
Mann, Harry J. Gerrity, and Donald Adams Powell, on
behalf of the National Association of Building Owners and
Managers; Messrs. Rollin Browne and Ralph Montgomery
Arkush, on behalf of numerous owners of real property;
Mr. Reese D. Alsop, on behalf of the Cotton Textile Merchants Association of New York; Messrs. Arthur A. Ballantine and Henry J. Friendly, on behalf of the Trustees
in Bankruptcy of Paramount Publix Corp.; Mr. Godfrey
Goldmark, on behalf of the Trustee in Bankruptcy of McCrory Stores Corp.; Messrs. Charles Tuttle and Robert
P. Levis, on behalf of the Creditors Advisory Committee
of McCrory Stores Corp. and McLellan Stores Co.; and
Messrs. Alanson W.. Willcox and Bertram F. Willcox, on
behalf of certain landlords.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

MR. JusTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the Court.

These cases present the question whether a landlord
may prove in bankruptcy for loss of rents payable in the
future, where the claim is founded upon the bankrupt's
covenant to pay rent, and, in the alternative, upon his
breach of a covenant that in event of bankruptcy, the
landlord may re~nter, and if he does, the tenant will
indemnify him against loss of rents for the remainder
of the term.
In No. 505 it appears that Oliver A. Olson Co., Inc.,
was the lessee of premises for a term of nine years and
eight months beginning February 1, 1928, and expiring
October 1, 1937. Defaults in payment of rent due February and March, 1932, were followed by an involuntary
proceeding in which the company was, on March 18, 1932,
adjudicated a bankrupt. The total rent reserved for the
portion of the term subsequent to bankruptcy was
$58,000, and, as the claimant asserted, the present rental
value of the leased premises for the remainder of the
term was $33,000. The lessor filed its claim, one item
being damages for loss of future rentals, which it asked
to have liquidated at $2&,000, the difference between the
rent reserved and the present rental value.
The lease contained a covenant that if the tenant
should default in the payment of rent, or abandon the
premises, or if they should become vacant, the tenant become insolvent, or make an assignment for the benefit
of creditors, or if bankruptcy proceedings should be instituted by or against the tenant, the landlord might without notice reenter the premises; and after obtaining possession, relet as agent for the tenant, for the whole or any
part of the term, and from time to time, and:
"The Tenant further agrees to pay each month to the
Landlord the deficit accruing from the difference betweenthe amount to be paid as rent as herein reserved and the

MANHATTAN PROP. v. IRVING TR. CO.
320

329

Opinion of the Court.

amount of rent which shall be collected and received from
the demised premises for such month during the residue
of the term herein provided for after the taking possession
by the Landlord; the overplus, if any, at the expiration
of the full term herein provided for shall be paid to the
Tenant unless the Landlord within a period of six months
from the termination of this lease as provided herein shall,
by a notice in writing,, release the Tenant from any and
all liability created by this provision of the lease, which
it is agreed the Landlord shall, at the Landlord's option,
have the right to do, in which event it is agreed that the
Landlord and the Tenant shall have no further rights and
liabilities hereunder."
The peferee expunged so much of the claim as sought
damages for loss of future rents, holding that it did not
constitute a provable debt. The District Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals were of the same opinion.1
In No. 506 premises owned by the petitioners were held
by the bankrupt under a lease dated June 14, 1920, for a
term to expire June 30, 1945. There was a covenant that
on default by the lessee, or if it should be adjudicated
a bankrupt, the lessor might enter and repossess the
premises,
and upon entry as aforesaid this lease shall determine, and the Lessee covenants that in case of such
termination it will indemnify the Lessor against all loss
of rent which the Lessor may incur by reason of such
termination, during the residue of the term above
specified."
A voluntary petition was filed and an adjudication
entered August 29, 1932. November 23, 1932, the trustee
disaffirmed the lease, and three days later the lessors took
possession and proceeded to collect rents from the occupants of the demised premises; and January 13, 1933,
' 66 F. (2d) 470.

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

they filed a proof of claim which as amended included an
item of $4,404.40, representing the difference between
the rent accrued to the date of reentry and the collections
from occupants during that period, and an item of $143,615.80, representing the -difference between the alleged
rental value for the remainder of the term after reentry
and the rent reserved in the lease. Petitioners made application for liquidation of their claim under § 63 (b) of
the Bankruptcy Act. The trustee moved to have the
claim expunged and disallowed. The referee disallowed
both items, and his action was affirmed by the District
Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals.2
The controversy hinges upon the interpretation of the
following sections of the Bankruptcy Act:
"Sec. 63. Debts which may be proved. (a) Debts of
the bankrupt may be proved and allowed against his
estate which are (1) a fixed liability, as evidenced by a
judgment or an instrument in writing, absolutely owing
at the time of the filing of. the petition against him,
whether then payable or not, with any interest thereon
which would have been recoverable at that date or with
a rebate of interest upon such as were not then payable
and did not bear interest; ... (4) founded upon an open
account, or upon a contract express or implied; . . .
"(b) Unliquidated claims against the bankrupt may,
pursuant to application to the court, be liquidated in such
manner as it shall direct, and may thereafter be proved
and allowed against his estate."
"Section 1 (11). 'Debt' shall include any debt, demand, or claim provable in bankruptcy."I
"Section 17. A discharge in bankruptcy shall release a
bankrupt from all of his provable debts . ... 5
-66

F. (2d) 473.

'U.S.C. Title 11, § 103.
4

U.S.C. Title 11,

§ 1.

'U.S.C. Title 11, § 35.

MANHATTANPROP. v. IRVING TR. CO.
320

331

Opinion of the Coirt.

A majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals felt bound
to follow its earlier decision in Re Roth & Appel, 181 Fed.
667, which denied a landlord's right to prove a claim for
future rents arising under a similar lease. The view there
expressed was that the occupation of the land is the consideration for the rent, and if the right to occupy terminates, the obligation to pay ceases; and the covenant to
pay rent creates no debt until the time stipulated for
payment arrives. Since many events may occur which
will absolve the tenant from further obligation for rent,
the claim is said to be too contingent, both because of the
uncertainty at the date of adjudication that the lessor will
reenter, and the doubt as to his suffering loss of rent if
-he should reenter.
In the present case one of the judges of the Court of
Appeals held that Maynard v. Elliott, 283 U.S. 273, has
settled the provability of claims contingent in the sense
that no sum is presently payable, thus destroying the
principal ground of decision in Re Roth & Appel, and that
the estimation of the present worth of payments to be
made in the future is no obstacle to the proof of a claim
based upon an anticipatory breach. Central Trust Co. v.
Chicago Auditorium Assn., 240 U.S. 581.
The petitioners say the provability of claims for future
rent is a subject on which the lower federal courts have
been in disagreement. They argue that a claim, for rent
is founded upon a lease which is an express contract
within the words of § 63 (a) (4). They rely upon the
purpose of the bankruptcy law to bring in all contract
creditors and to discharge all debts of the bankrupt, so that
he may start afresh unembarrassed by old indebtedness,
and point to the hardship to an individual bankrupt of
not discharging claims for rent which might well prevent
his financial rehabilitation, and the unfairness to the landlord of a corporate bankrupt who, under the decision below, cannot prove upon his lease along with other cred-

332

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

itors, but must look solely for redress for loss of future
rents to a corporate debtor whom bankruptcy has stripped
of all assets.
The respondent asserts a substantial difference between
rent and other kinds of indebtedness, and presents equitable considerations thought to weigh in its favor, but
especially stresses the legislative history of the bankruptcy
laws passed by Congress, and insists that the preponderant
construction of them by the courts excludes claims for
future rents from the class of provable debts.
The issue is not one of power, for plainly Congress may
permit such claims or exclude them. The sole inquiry
is the intent of the Act. The construction for which the
petitioners contend is, as a matter of logic, an admissible
one. But that construction is contrary to the great weight
of authority as to the effect of similar provisions in earlier
Acts, and § 63 of the present Act.
In England such claims were not provable under the
Act of 7 Geo. I, c. 31; Mayor v. Steward, 4 Burr. 2439;
and a discharge could not be pleaded in defense of an
action for rent accruing subsequent to bankruptcy.
Boot v. Wilson, 8 East 311. The landlord's claim for loss
of future rent was made provable by the Act of 32 and
33 Vict., c. 71, § 23 (1869), and more explicit provisions
to the same effect were embodied in that of 46 and 47
Vict., c. 52, §§ 37 and 55 (1883).
The Act of Congress, approved April 4, 1800,' permitted
proof of a limited class of contingent claims, but did not
mention rents. Apparently the latter were not considered provable debts under that statute. Hendricks v.
'2 Stat. 19, Sec. 39. ". . . the obligee of any bottomry or respondentia bond, and the assured in any policy of insurance, shall be admitted to claim, and after the contingency or loss, to prove the debt
thereon, in like manner as if the same had happened before issuing
the commission; and the bankrupt shall be discharged from such securities, as if such money had been due and payable before the time
of his or her becoming bankrupt . .

MANHATTAN PROP. v. IRVING TR. CO. 333
320

Opinion of the Court.

Judah, 2 Caines (N.Y.) 25; Lansing v. Prendergast, 9
Johns. (N.Y.) 127.
The Act of August 19, 1841, § 5, 5 Stat. 440, 444, expressly allowed proof of contingent claims," specifying
certain classes and adding a general description of contingent debts but said nothing about rent. The courts
held that the latter was not a provable debt within this
section, because neither a present debt nor a contingent
claim susceptible of liquidation. Bosler v. Kuhn, 8 Watts
& S. (Pa.) 183; Stinemets v. Ainslie, 4 Denio (N.Y.) 573;
Savory v. Stocking, 4 Cush. (Mass.) 607.
The Act of March 2, 1867, § 19, 14 Stat. 517, 525,
authorized the proof and liquidation of contingent claims,
and also proof of a claim for a proportionate part, of any
rent up to the date of bankruptcy.8 The courts uniformly
... all creditors whose debts are not due and payable until a
future day, all annuitants, holders of bottomry and respondentia
bonds, holders of policies of insurances, sureties, indorsers, bail,, or
other persons, having uncertain or contingent demands against such
bankrupt, shall be permitted to come in and prove such debts or
claims under this act, and shall have a right, when their' debts and
claims become absolute, to have the same allowed them; and such
annuitants and holders of debts payable in future may have the present value thereof ascertained, under the direction of such court, and
allowed them accordingly, as debts in presenti . . ."
. In all cases of contingent debts and contingent liabilities
8 "..
contracted by the bankrupt, and not herein otherwise provided for,
the creditor may make claim therefor, and have his claim allowed,
with the right to share in the dividends, if the contingency shall happen before the order for the final dividend; or he may at any time
apply to the court to have the present value of the debt or liability
ascertained and liquidated, which shall then be done in such manner
as the court shall order, and he shall be allowed to prove for the
amount so ascertained.
"Where the bankrupt is liable to pay rent or other debt falling due
at fixed and stated periods, the creditor may prove fop a proportionate
part thereof up to the time of the bankruptcy, as if the same grew
due from day to day, and not at such fixed and stated periods."

334

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

held that claims for future rent or for damages for breach
of covenant.to pay rent were not provable under the act,
though differing as to the reason; some holding them
not contingent claims within the statutory definition, and
others thinking the express permission of proof for rent
past due at the date of bankruptcy impliedly excluded
claims for rents thereafter falling due. Ex parte Houghton, Fed. Cas. 6725; Ex parte Lake, Fed. Cas. 7991; In re.
Croney, Fed. Cas. 3411; In re Commercial Bulletin Co.,
Fed. Cas. 3060; In re May, Fed. Cas. 9325; In re Hufnagel, Fed. Cas. 6837; Bailey v. Loeb, Fed. Cas. 739.
In the year 1880 Circuit Judge John Lowell, of Massachusetts, at the suggestion of several mercantile associations, drafted a proposed bankruptcy law, which, after
revision, was introduced in Congress, but failed of passage. It contained a section (60) which allowed proof
of damages suffered by a landlord by reason of the trustee's rejection of a lease, and another (61) permitting any
creditor to compel the trustee to elect to accept or decline
any lease, and upon declination the landlord was to have
"any damages he shall suffer thereby assessed, as the court
shall direct, and prove the amount as a debt in the bankruptcy." 0
After much agitation by trade associations and commercial bodies, and after prolonged consideration (see
Schall v. Camors, 251 U.S. 239, 250), Congress adopted
the Act now in force, that of July 1, 1898."0 The committee reports do not disclose the origin of the phraseology of § 63, nor discuss the, classes of claims intended
to be included. But it is clear that Congress was familiar
with analogous sections of the earlier Acts and the court
decisions interpreting them, and with the text of the

' The bill in full appears in the Congressional Record, Vol. 14, pp.
43-48.
1 30 Stat. 544, c. 541.

MANHATTAN PROP. v. IRVING TR. CO. 335
320

Opinion of the Cohrt.

Lowell Bill and the English act then in force. In view of
the extended consideration and discussion which preceded
the passage of the Act, the failure to include a provision
for claims for loss of rent or for damages consequent on
the abrogation of leases, is significant of an intent not
to depart from the precedents disallowing them. Schall
v. Camors, supra,pp. 250, 251.
Soon after the passage of the Act several federal courts!
were called upon to decide the question, and they uniformly held such claims were not provable debts under
§ 63. In re Ells, 98 Fed. 967; In re Mahlcr, 105 Fed.
428; Atkins v. Wilcox, 105 Fed. 595. Since 1900 the
Circuit Courts of Appeals in six circuits, and the District
Courts in another, have agreed with these early adjudications. Slocum v. Soliday, 183 Fed. 410; McDonnell v.
Woods, 298 Fed. 434 (C.C.A. 1); In re Roth & Appel,
supra; In re Mullings Clothing Co., 238 Fed. 58; In re
Metropolitan Chain Stores, 66 F. (2d) 482 (C.C.A. 2);
Trust Co. of Georgiav. Whitehall Holding Co., 53 F. (2d)
635; Orr v. Neilly, 67 F. (2d) 423 (C.C.A. 5); Wells v.
Twenty-first Street Realty Co., 12 F. (2d) 237 (C.C.A.
6); Britton v. Western Iowa.Co., 9 F. (2d) 488 (C.C.A.
8); Colman Co. v. Withoft, 195 Fed. 250 (C.C.A. 9); Bray
v., Cobb, 100 Fed. 270; In re Hook, 25 F. (2d) 498. The
decisions in the Third Circuit turn upon a special' form
of lease drawn to take advantage of a local statutory
provision, and while establishing a rule differing from
that elsewhere recognized, are not inconsistent with it.
See Wilson v. Pennsylvania Trust Co., 114 Fed. 742;
South Side Trust Co. v. Watson, 200 Fed. 50; In re H. M.
Lasker Co., 251 Fed. 53; Rosenblum v. Uber, 256 Fed.
584. The Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit has
not discussed the question at length, but at least one of
its decisions supports the view that a claim for loss of
future rentals may be proved. In re Chakos, 24 F. (2d)

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

482; compare In re Desnoyers Shoe Co., 227 Fed. 401;
In re National Credit Clothing Co., 66 F. (2d) 371.
This court has never had occasion to pass upon the
precise point. It has not, however, expressed disapproval
of the rulings of the great majority of the lower federal
courts, and has cited many of their decisions with apparent approbation. See Central Trust Co. v. Chicago Auditorium Association, 240 U.S. 581, 589-590; Win. Filene's
Sons Co. v. Weed, 245 U.S. 597; Gardinerv. Butler & Co.,
245 U.S. 603, 605; Maynard v. Elliott, 283 U.S. 273, 278.
In accord with the well-nigh unanimous view of the
federal courts reiterated for over thirty years are statements of leading text writers. Collier, Bankruptcy, Vol.
2, p. 1422; Remington, Bankruptcy, Vol. 2, §§ 789, 793;
Loveland, Bankruptcy, Vol. 1, § 313.
What of the activities of the Congress while this body
of decisions interpreting § 63a was growing? From
1898 to 1932 the Bankruptcy Act was amended seven
times " without alteration of the section. This is persuasive that the construction adopted by the courts has
been acceptable to the legislative arm of the government.
Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Baugh, 149 U.S. 368, 372.
In this situation "only compelling language in the statute itself would warrant the rejection of a construction so
long and so generally accepted." Maynard v. Elliott,
supra, 277. If the rule is to be changed Congress should
so declare.
The petitioners call attention to the last clause of §
74 (a), which is one of the sections, added to the Act
in 1933: " "A claim for future rent shall constitute a
'Acts of February 5, 1903, c. 487, 32 Stat. 797; June 15, 1906,
c. 3333, 34 Stat. 267; June 25, 1910, c. 412, 36 Stat. 838; March 2,
1917, c. 153, 39 Stat. 999; January 7, 1922, c. 22, 42 Stat. 354; May
27, 1926, c. .406, 44 Stat. 662; February 11, 1932, c. 38, 47 Stat. 47.
UAct of March 3,1933, 47 Stat. 1467.

MANHATTAN PROP. v. IRVING TR. CO. 337
320

Opinion of the Court.

provable debt and shall be liquidated under section 63 (b)
of this Act." Sections 73 to 76 inclusive were enacted
to permit extensions and compositions not theretofore possible. They apply only to individuals. It is
highly unlikely that if the quoted sentence had been intended as an amendment of § 63 (a) it would have been
placed in contextdealing only with the novel procedure
authorized by the new sections. Moreover, the discussion
-on the floor of the Senate relative to the insertion of the
sentence, indicates that it was not intended to alter § 63
(a) as it then stood. 13 The petitioners insist the clause
is declaratory of the law, as understood by the Congress;
but there is no evidence to support this view, and it is
inconsistent with the long standing contrary judicial
construction.
It remains to consider the effect of the indemnity covenants in the leases. These do not provide for liquidation
of damages (compare Wm.Filene's Sons Co. v. Weed,
supra), nor indeed for any right to damages for breach of
the covenant to pay rent.
In No. 505 the agreement is, in the event of reentry and
reletting by the landlord, to pay each month the deficit
accruing from the difference between the amount to be
paid as rent under the lease and the amount received by
the landlord from the premises throughout the residue of
the original term; and further, that the overplus, if any,
at the expiration of the term, shall be paid to the tenant,
unless the landlord, within six months from reentry, release the tenant from all liability under the covenant,
authorized to do, thus terminating
which the landlord 'is
all rights and liabilities under the agreement of lease.
In No. 506 the stipulation is that upon bankruptcy the
landlord may reenter and thereby terminate the lease, and
UCong. Rec., Senate, Feb. 24, 1933, pp. 5058-9 i Feb. 27, 1933,
p. 5278.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the lessee covenants that, in such case, "it will indemnify
the Lessor against all loss of rent which the Lessor may
incur by reason of such termination, during the residue
of the term . . ."
In both cases the lessor has the choice whether he will
terminate the lease. Neither the bankrupt nor the trustee has any such option, except as the trustee may be entitled by law to disclaim. And upon the exercise of the
option by the landlord, a new contract, distinct from that
involved in the original letting, becomes operative.
While there is some color for the claim that bankruptcy
is an anticipatory breach of the lease contract, entailing a
damage claim against the estate, this cannot be true as
respects these independent covenants of indemnity. For
here, the landlord does not rely upon the destruction of
his contract by th, bankruptcy; he initiates a new contract of indemnit v by the affirmative step of reentry.
And this new contract comes into being not by virtue of
the bankruptcy proceeding, but by force of the act of reentry, which must occur at a date subsequent to the filing
,of the petition. Obviously this contract of indemnity is
not breached by bankruptcy, and cannot be breached until
the duty of indemnifying the landlord arises. That obligation cannot be complete until the expiration of the original term. There can be no debt provable in bankruptcy
arising out of a contract which becomes effective only at
the claimant's option and after the inception of the proceedings, the fulfilment of which is contingent on what
may happen from month to month or up to the end of
the original term. Compare In re Ells, supra; Slocum v.
Soliday, supra; In re Roth & Appel, supra. Such a covenant is not, as petitioners contend, the equivalent of an
agreement that bankruptcy shall be a breach of the lease
and the consequent damages to the lessor be measured by
the difference between the present value of the remainder

BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.
320

Argument for the Judges.

of the term and the total rent to fall due in the future.
The covenants appearing in the leases in question cannot
be made the basis of a proof of debt against the estate.
The judgments are
Affirmed.

BOOTH v. UNITED STATES.*
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 656.

Argued January 17, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. A district or circuit judge of the United States who retires
pursuant to. § 260 of the Judicial Code, as amended, continues in
office within the meaning of § 1 of Art. III of the Constitution,
and his compensation may not be diminished. P. 348.
2. In the light of the evident purpose of the Act that a retiring
judge shall continue to hold office and perform official duties, its
provision for the appointment of a "successor"
can not be
construed as vacating the office. P. 351.
3. A diminution after an increase of compensation, even though not
a reduction below the rate at date of appointment, is a diminution
within the meaning of § 1 of Art. III. P. 352.
CERTIFICATES from the Court of Claims in two cases
involving the validity of an Act reducing the pay of

retired federal judges.

Messrs. William D. Mitchell and John S. Flannery,
with whom Mr. Carl Taylor was on the brief, for petitioners.

To resign an office is to give it up. To retire from active
service is something less. To retire from regular active
service is still further removed from resignation.

By re-

tiring, a federal judge does not retire from office or wholly
from active service, but in the words of the statute, only
"from regular active service."

The service he does per-

* Together with No. 657, Amidon v.

from the Court of Claims.

United States, certificate

