OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

v. Chambers, ante, p. 217, and that the judgment of the
court below should be reversed.
The Court is of the opinion that it appears from the
record that no final judgment was rendered herein against
the petitioner prior to the ratification of the Twenty-first
Amendment. The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, as entered in the cause of this petitioner, is accordingly reversed, and the cause is remanded to the District
Court with direction to vacate that part of its judgment
which sentences this petitioner, and to dismiss the indictment as to him. United States v. Chambers, ante, p. 217.
Reversed.

EX PARTE BALDWIN

ET AL.

PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

No. 19, original.

Argued February 12, 1934.-Decided March 19,
1934.

1. The writ of mandamus will not be issued by this Court at the
instance of a trustee in bankruptcy to compel the District Court
to accept jurisdiction on removal of a suit in a state cburt, brought
against him as such trustee and affecting the title and possession
of property of which he has taken possession as part of the
bankrupt estate. There is an adequate remedy by application to
the court of bankruptcy to enjoin the prosecution of the suit.
P. 614.
2. All property in the possession of a bankrupt of which he claims
the ownership passes, upon the filing of the petition in bankruptcy,
into the custody of the court of bankruptcy. P. 615.
3. Where a court of competent jurisdiction has, through its officers,
taken property into its possession, the property is thereby withdrawn from the jurisdiction of other courts, and the court having
possession may not only issue all writs necessary to protect its
possession from physical interference, but is entitled to determine
all questions respecting the same. P. 615.
4. The jurisdiction in such cases is exclusive of the jurisdiction of
other courts although otherwise the controversy would be cognizable
by them. P. 615.

EX PARTE BALDWIN.
610

611

Statement of the Case.

5. In bankruptcy, this rule applies regardless of whether the property
is located in the district in which the bankruptcy jurisdiction originated; and an injunction to protect its possession may issue either
from the federal court of original jurisdiction, or from the federal
court of the district in which the state court suit is brought or in
which the plaintiff in.that suit resides. P. 615.
6. The exclusive jurisdiction acquired by a court of bankruptcy
through taking possession of land as part of the bankrupt's estate
is not limited to prevention of interference with use of the land
but extends also to the adjudication of questions respecting thd
title. P. 616.
7. The inherent power of a bankruptcy court to protect its jurisdiction over property of which it has taken possession from interference by suit against the trustee thereafter begun in a state
court, is expressly reserved in § 265, Jud. Code, and is not abridged
by § 23 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act, relating to suits over property
brought by trustees in bankruptcy against adverse claimants, nor
by § 66, Jud. Code, which provides that every receiver or manager
of any property appointed by any court of the United States, may
be sued without previous leave of that court, in respect of any
act or transaction of his in carrying on the business connected
with such property, subject, however, to the equity jurisdiction of
the appointing court so far as may be necessary to the ends of
justice. P. 616.
8. A suit brought in a state court against trustees in bankruptcy to
forfeit to the plaintiffs a railroad right of way in the trustees'
possession, upon the ground that the bankrupt railway company
broke an agreement requiring it to maintain train service,--held
subject to the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, notwithstanding
that, as a mere incident, damages also were prayed against the
trustees because of their failure to maintain the service after they
took over the railway. P. 618.
9. Non-feasance of the trustees in bankruptcy in not reviving train
service which the bankrupt wholly ceased to maintain before they
took possession, was not an "act or transaction" of the trustees,
within the meaning of § 66, Jud. Code. Id.
Rule discharged.

UPON the return of the District Court for the Southern District of Texas, and of Thomas M. Kennerly, judge
thereof, to a rule to show cause why a writ of mandamus

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

should not issue commanding that jurisdiction be taken
of a petition for the removal to that court of a suit pending in a court of Texas against the petitioners, Baldwin
and Thompson, trustees in bankruptcy, -the Beaumont,
Sour Lake & Western Railway Company, and the Houston North Shore Railway Co.
Messrs. Robert H. Kelley and Harry R. Jones, with
whom Messrs. Edward J. White and Frank Andrews were
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. Lon E. Blankenbecker for Tyrrell & Garth Investment Co., plaintiff in the state court.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This petition for a writ of mandamus, filed in this Court
by leave, prays that the federal court for southern Texas
and Thomas M. Kennerly, judge thereof, be commanded
to take jurisdiction, on a petition for removal, of a suit
instituted in a state court of Texas by Tyrrell-Garth Investment Company. The petitioners are the defendants
in that suit.1 Two of them, Baldwin and Thompson, are
the trustees in bankruptcy of the Missouri Pacific Railroad system and are operating it. They were appointed
by orders of the federal court for eastern Missouri entered
in proceedings for reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act as amended March 3, 1933, c. 204, § 1, 47
Stat. 1474. The other two petitioners are Texas corporations-Houston North Shore Railway Company and
Beaumont, Sour Lake & Western Railway Companyand are parts of the Missouri Pacific system.'
1

There is another defendant in the state court suit (Johnson) who
did not join in the petition for removal. The allegations concerning
him are not here material.
2
IAl the stock of these corporations is owned by New Orleans,
Texas & Mexico Railway Company; and nearly all of the latter's
voting stock is owned by the Missouri Pacific.

EX PARTE BALDWIN.
610

Opinion of the Court.

The federal court entered an order denying the petition
for removal and returned the papers to the petitioners,
on the ground that it appears from the petition for removal that the suit is not one in which it is sought to
hold the trustees "responsible in their own person and/or
property but only in their representative capacity. See
Ruff v. Gay, 3 F.Supp. 264; 67 F. (2d) 684." The Trustees
claim that they are entitled to a writ of mandamus, because the suit in the state court is removable under § 33
of the Judicial Code as amended by Act of August 23,
1916, c. 399, 39 Stat. 532, being an action against officers of
a court "of the United States on-account of acts done
under color of their office and in performance of their
3
duties as such officers."
The petition for mandamus alleges that among the
properties of which the Trustees took possession is an interurban railway in Texas, owned by the Houston North
Shore Railway and leased to the Beaumont, Sour Lake
& Western Railway; that they had taken possession of
this property prior to the institution of the suit in the
state court; and that the necessary effect of the institution and prosecution of the suit in the state court "is
and will be to materially interfere with and obstruct the
jurisdiction and powers of the federal court for eastern
Missouri, with respect to the properties and assets of said
debtors, the Beaumont, Sour Lake & Western Railway
Company and Houston North Shore Railway Company,
and each of them."
The petition for mandamus shows further, by reference
to the complaint of the Investment Company, that a part
'Judicial Code, § 33 as amended, provides: "When any civil suit
is commenced in any court of a State ... against any officer
of the courts of the United States for or on account of any act done
*. .

under color of his office or in the performance of his duties as such
officer . . .the said suit . . .may, at any time before the trial or

final hearing thereof be removed for trial into the district court
in the district where the same is pending."

.

614

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

of the interurban railway's right of way had been acquired by mesne conveyance from the predecessor in title
of the Investment Company; that, after the Trustees
took possession of this interurban railway; the Investment
Company brought the suit in the state court in which
it claims that it is the owner of the fee of a part of the
land over which the railway extends and that the easement
of right of way has been forfeited by failure of the Texas
corporations and the Trustees to operate trains thereon
in accordance with the conditions contained in a contract
which accompanied the grant of the right of way,' and
prayed as follows: That the deeds conveying the right of
way be cancelled; that they be "annulled and held for
naught as an existing cloud upon plaintiff's title to the
•lands and properties therein conveyed "; that the two
railways and the trustees be enjoined from making further
dse of the lands for the operation of the interurban railway or otherwise; and that the complainani recover from
Houston North Shore Railway and the trustees "in their
capacity as trustees" damages in the sum of $150,000.
We are of opinion that the Trustees may be entitled to
have their controversy with the Investment Company
adjudicated in the federal court, but are not entitled to
the remedy of mandamus, because to secure adjudication
in the federal court of their rights and duties, they could
have applied, and still can apply so far as now appears,
either in the original bankruptcy proceeding, or by an
ancillary bill in Texas, for an injunction to restrain the
Investment Company from prosecuting its suit in the
state court.
'The contract provided for an easement subject to forfeiture for
non-user for the purpose of an interurban railroad. "Non-user " is
defined as failure to operate the railroad for 30 successive days; and
"operation" as involving a passenger schedule over which first-class
coaches must run over the entire line by electric or gas engines on a
regular schedule of at least one train not less than every two hours
of each day from six o'clock a.m. until twelve o'clock midnight.

EX PARTE BALDWIN.
610

Opinion of the Court.

First. All property in the possession of a bankrupt of
which he claims the ownership passes, upon the filing of
a petition in bankruptcy, into the custody of the court of
bankruptcy. To protect its jurisdiction from interference,
that court may issue an injunction. The power is not
peculiar to bankruptcy or to the federal courts. It is
an application of the general principle that where a court
of competent jurisdiction has, through its officers, taken
property into its possession the property is thereby withdrawn from the jurisdiction of other courts. Having possession, the court may not only issue all writs necessary to
protect its possession from physical interference, but is
entitled to determine all questions respecting the same.
Julian v. Central Trust Co., 193 U.S. 93, 112; compare
Riehle v. Margolies, 279 U.S. 218, 223; Straton v. New,
283 U.S. 318. The jurisdiction in such cases is exclusive
of the jurisdiction of other courts, although otherwise
the controversy would be cognizable in them. Murphy
v. John Hofman Co., 211 U.S. 562, 569. In bankruptcy,
this rule applies regardless of whether the property is
located in the district in which the bankruptcy proceeding
originated. The injunction to protect its possession may
issue either from the court of original jurisdiction, or
from the federal court for the district in which the state
court suit is brought or in which the plaintiff in that
suit resides. Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & T mber Co., 282 U.S.
734, 737-8.'
Second. It is immaterial that the Investment Company' after the petition for removal had been presented
to the federal court, amended its complaint in the state
court by striking therefrom so much of the prayer as
sought to enjoin the two railways and the Trustees from
'See In re Patterson Lumber Co., 228 Fed. 916; 247 Fed. 578;
In re Lookout Mountain Hotel Co., 50 F. (2d) 421. As to railroads,
see § 77 added to the Bankruptcy Act by Act of March 3, 1933,
c.. 204, § 1, 47 Stat. 1467, 1474.

616

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

making further use of the lands for operation of the interurban railway or otherwise.' The purpose of the amendment was evidently to confine the litigation in the state
court to the issue of the right and title to the property,
as distinguished from its use during the pendency of the
bankruptcy proceedings, in the hope of thereby removing
the obvious interference with the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court. But the exclusive jurisdiction acquired by
the bankruptcy court through taking possession of the
interurban railway under claim of title, was not limited
to the prevention of interference with the use of the land.
Compare Chicago Board of Trade v. Johnson, 264 U.S. 1,
11; Taubel-Scott-Kitzmiller Co. v. Fox, 264 U.S. 426, 483.
The jurisdiction extends also to the adjudication of questions respecting the title. White v. Schloerb, 178 U.S.
542; In re Eppstein, 156 Fed. 42. Compare Wabash R.
Co. v. Adelbert College, 208 U.S. 38, 54; Security Mortgage Co. v. Powers, 278 U.S. 149, 153.
Third. The inherent power of the bankruptcy court to
protect its jurisdiction, over property of which it has
taken possession, from interference by suit thereafter begun in a state court has not been abridged by any legis"From the answer to the petition for removal filed by the Investment Company in the federal court it appears that, after the filing
of the petition for removal, and before action thereon by the federal
court, the Investment Company had moved in the state court to
dismiss so much of the prayer in its suit as seeks an injunction against
the Trustees in their official capacity and the two railway companies; and that the state court granted the motion "without preju-

dice to the plaintiff hereafter to seek such injunction against said
defendant railway companies when and if they shall be discharged
from jurisdiction and control of" the federal pourt for eastern Missouri. We have no occasion to consider the effect of the amendment
so far as concerns the right of renjoval.
Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U.S. 539. In re Rochford, 124 Fed.
182, 186; In re Moody, 131 Fed. 525; Fidelity Trust Co. v. Gaskell,
195 Fed. 865; In re Dialogue, 241 Fed. 290; cases in Note 8, infra.

EX PARTE BALDWIN.
610

Opinion of the Court.

lation of Congress. The power is expressly reserved to
the bankruptcy court in Judicial Code § 265, which contains the general prohibition against staying proceedings
in state courts. Nor is this power of the bankruptcy court
affected by § 23 (a) of the Bankruptcy Act of 1898, c. 541,
30 Stat. 552, which declares:
"The United States circuit [district] courts shall have
jurisdiction of all controversies at law and in equity, as
distinguished from proceedings in bankruptcy, between
trustees as such and adverse claimants concerning the
property acquired or claimed by the trustees, in the same
manner and to the same extent only as though bankruptcy
proceedings had not been instituted and such controversies had been between the bankrupts and such adverse
claimants."
That section relates only to suits in which the Trustees
are plaintiffs. It has no restrictive effect on the right
of trustees or receivers to protect their possession or title
through proceedings in the bankruptcy court.8
Nor is the inherent power of the bankruptcy court to
protect its jurisdiction in respect to property of which
it has taken possession abridged by Judicial Code § 66,
which declares:
"Every receiver or manager of any property appointed
by any court of the United States may be sued in respect
of any act or transaction of his in carrying on the business connected with such property, without the previous
leave of the court in which such receiver or manager was
appointed; but such suit shall be subject to the general
equity jurisdiction of the court in which such manager
or receiver was appointed so far as the same may be
necessary to the ends of justice."
'J. I. Case Plow Works v. Finks, 81 Fed. 529; In re McCallum,
113 Fed. 393; In re Lipman, 201 Fed. 169; In re Williams, 53 F.
(2d) 486.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

That section does not abridge the exclusive jurisdiction of the court over property of which it has taken
possession. In re Tyler, 149 U.S. 164, 182-4.'
Fourth. It is true that the Investment Company seeks,
in addition to the adjudication of the forfeiture of the
right of way, damages" in the sum of $150,000" from the
two railways and" from the trustees in their said capacity
as trustees" for failure to maintain the daily schedule of
passenger trains set forth in the contract. This prayer
of the complaint is no bar to staying the suit in the state
court. The exclusive jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court
is determined by the main purpose of the suit, which is to
have the forfeiture declared and the alleged cloud upon
title removed. The claim for damages is merely an incident. Moreover, the breach of contract for which damages are claimed is not "an act or transaction of the
'trustees' in carrying on the business connected with such
property." The breach alleged is that of "wholly" ceasing to maintain the passenger train schedule. It is alleged
that this breach had occurred months before the commencement of the bankruptcy proceeding. The only
wrong with which the Trustees are charged is in not "now
maintaining" the service. Such non-feasance is not an
"act or transaction 3'within the meaning of § 66.0
We have no occasion to determine otherwise the scope
of Judicial Code § 33. Nor need we consider whether
the federal court, if it had entertained the petition for
removal, would have been obliged to dismiss the suit on
the ground that the state court was without jurisdiction
because the bankruptcy court had possession of the res.
'See also New River Coal Co. v. Ruffner Bros., 165 Fed. 881;
Dickinson v. Willis, 239 Fed. 171.
" Compare Buckhannon & W. R. Co. v. Davis, 135 Fed. 707, 711;
Love v. Louisville R. Co., 178 Fed. 507; Dickinson v. Willis, 239 Fed.
171; Field v. Kansas City Refining Co., 296 Fed. 800; 9 F. (2d) 213.

PUGET SOUND CO. v. SEATTLE.
610

Syllabus.

Compare Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., 282 U.S. 734,
-738-9; Lambert Run Coal Co. v. Baltimore& Ohio R. Co.,
258 U.S. 377, 382.11 It is sufficient that the extraordinary
remedy of mandamus should be denied, because the
Trustees may by the common remedy of injunction prevent any interference with the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court. Compare Ex parte Park Square Automobile Station, 244 U.S. 412, 414; Ex parte Riddle, 255 U.S.
450; Ex parte Krentler-Arnold Hinge Last Co., 286 U.S.
533. Moreover, the bankruptcy court might, in the exercise of its discretion, conclude that it is desirable to have
the litigation proceed in the state court.12
Rule discharged.
PUGET SOUND POWER & LIGHT CO. v. SEATTLE.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 344. Argued January 12, 15, 1934.--Decided March 19, 1934.
1. A tax imposed by a city upon the gross receipts of a private
corporation, engaged in the business of furnishing electric light and
power to consumers for hire, can not be adjudged violative of
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment merely
because the city, under authority from the State, engages in the
same kind of business, in active competition with the private
corporation. P. 623.
2. With respect to such busindss and its taxation, the city and tlie
private corporation are clearly to be classed in different categories,
for reasons that are in no way affected by calling the city's activity
"proprietary" instead of "governmental."
P. 624.
Compare In re 2ehner, 193 Fed. 787; First Trust Co. v. Baylor,
1 F. (2d) 24, 27. See note 12, infra.
McHenry v. La Soci~t6 Francaise, 05 U.S. 58; In re Johnson,
127 Fed. 618; In re Zehner, 193 Fed. 787; First Trust Co. v. Baylor,
1 F. (2d) 24, 27; In re Schulte-United, 50 F. (2d) 243; In re Gas
Products Co., 57 F. (2d) 342; comlare In re Schermerhorn, 145 Fed.
341; In re Locust Bldg., 272 Fed. 988; Field v. Kan&as City Refining
Co., 296 Fed. 800; 9 F. (2d) 213.

