352

OCTOBER TERM, 1933;
Syllabus.

291 U.S..

2. Does the Constitution prohibit reduction of the compensation which was fixed by law at the time of appointment or that to which the judge was entitled at the date
of retirement?
In other words, is a diminution after an increase
banned, if the compensation notwithstanding the reduction remains in excess of that payable when the incumbent took office? The answer must be in the affirmative.
Several courts, in well-considered decisions, have so interpreted analogous provisions of state constitutions (Commonwealth ex rel. Hepburn v. Mann, 5 Watts & S. (Pa.)
403; New Orleans v. Lea, 14 La. Ann. 197; Long v. Watts,
183 N.C. 99; 110 S.E. 765), and the Solicitor General with
commendable candor admits that a contrary construction
would be subversive of the purpose of § 1 of Article III.
Question I Answered Yes.
Question 2 Answered Yes.
HARTFORD ACCIDENT & INDEMNITY CO. ET
v. N. 0. NELSON MANUFACTURING CO.

AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 239.

Argued January 12, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. On appeal from a judgment of the highest court of a State, in a
suit in which the validity of a statute of the State is challenged,
the decision of the state court as to the meaning of the statute is
binding upon this Court. P. 358.
2. A state statute providing that any bond executed after its enactment for the faithful performance of a building contract shall inure
to the benefit of materialmen and laborers notwithstanding any
provision of the bond to the contrary, is not an arbitrary restraint
upon the liberty of contract enjoyed by surety companies under
the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 358, 359.
So held where the bond was not required by the statute and
where statutory effects of its voluntary execution were to exempt
the building contract and the moneys collected or payable under it
from statutory rights that would otherwise exist for protection of

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. NELSON CO. 353
352

Opinion of the Court.

materialmen and laborers, and to substitute the bond as their security, but in subordination to the interests of the obligee building
owner.
3. The business of insurance is one peculiarly subject to supervision
and control by the State.. P. 360.
4. Liberty of contract is not an absolute concept, but is relative to
many conditions of time and place and circumstance. P. 360.
147 So. 815, affirmed. See also 166 Miss. 222; 135 So. 497.

APPEAL from the affirmance of a judgment against
building contractors and the surety on their bond in favor
of the assignee of a materialman. The surety company,
and the surety on its appeal bond in the court below,
joined in the appeal to this Court. Another branch of
the same litigation was lere before, but that appeal was
dismissed for defect of parties appellant. 285 U.S. 169.
Mr. L. BarrettJTnes, with whom Mr. W. Calvin Wells
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Gerard Brandon, with whom Mr. Gerard H.
Brandon was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CARDOZO delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The controversy hinges upon the validity of a statute
of Mississippi whereby the bond of a contractor guaranteeing to an owner the faithful performance of a contract
for the construction of a building shall inure to the benefit of persons furnishing material or labor, and this though
the bond expresses an intention to exclude them.
The statute challenged by the appellants was enacted
in March 1918, and is framed for the protection of subcontractors, materialmen, laborers and journeymen who
have had a part in the making of buildings or of structures akin thereto. Laws of 1918, c. 128; Mississippi
Code of 1930, §§ 2274-2281.

354

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

By section 1 (which amended § 3074 of the Code of
1906), materialmen or laborers, not paid by a contractor,
may give notice in writing to the owner, and thereupon
any amount due from the owner to the contractor shall
be bound in the hands of the owner for the payment pro
rata of claims covered by the notice.
By section 2, no contractor may " assign, transfer, or
otherwise dispose of in any way, the contract or the proceeds thereof, to the detriment or prejudice " of materialmen or laborers, and "all such assignments, transfers, or
dispositions" shall be in subordination to their rights,
"provided, however, that this section shall not apply to
any contract or agreement where the contractor or the
master workman shall enter into a solvent bond " conditioned as provided for in section 3 thereof.
By section 3, any bond for the faithful performance of a
building contract shall include a guarantee that the contractor shall make payment to materialmen and laborers,
and if such a provision is omitted, the bond shall inure to
the protection of materialmen and laborers as if the provision were expressed. The text of this section is quoted in
the margin.'
'See.

3. When any contractor or subcontractor entering into a

formal contract wth any person, firm or corporation, for the construction of any building or work or the doing of any repairs, shall
enter into a bond with such person, firm or corporation guaranteeing
the faithful performance of such contract and containing such provisions and penalties as the parties thereto may insert therein, such
bond shall also be subject to the additional obligations that such
contractor or subcontractor, shall promptly make payments to all
persons furnishing labor or material under said contract; and in the

event such bond does not contain any such provisions for the payment of the claims of persons furnishing labor or material under said
contract, such bond shall nevertheless inure to the benefit of such
person furnishing labor or material under said contract, the same as
if such stipulation had been inorporated in said bond; and any such
person who has furnished labor or materials used therein, for which

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. NELSON CO. 355
352

Opinion of the Court.

In October, 1926, Natchez Investment Company, Inc.,
the owner of land in Natchez, Mississippi, made a contract with builders, J. V. and R. T. Burkes, for the construction of a hotel. The Burkes made a subcontract
with Acme Engineering Company for the plumbing, heating and ventilating work; and the subcontractor assigned
its contract to the N. 0. Nelson Manufacturing Company, the appellee in this court. By the principal contract, provision was made for the'giving of a bond which
was to secure materialmen and laborers as well as the
owner. 2 Thereafter the contractors did furnish a bond
for the cost of the building ($316,822) with the Hartford
Accident & Indemnity Company as surety, but a bond
giving narrower protection, or so the surety contends,
than the one that had been promised. The bond that was
furnished refers to and incorporates the contract between
the owner and the builders. It provides that if the principal shall indemnify the obligee against loss or damage
directly caused by the failure of the principal faithfully
payment has not been made, shall have the right to intervene and be
made a party to any action instituted on such bond, and to have his
rights adjudicated in such action and judgment rendered thereon, subject, however, to the priority of the rights or claim for damages or
otherwise, of the obligee. If the full amount of the liability of the
surety therein is insufficient to pay the full amount of said claims
and demands, then, after paying the full amount due the obligee, the
remainder shall be distributed pro rata among said interveners. The
bond herein provided for may be made by any surety company
authorized to do business in the State of Mississippi.
'The specifications state that "it shall be the obligation of every
contractor and sub-contractor estimating upon work under this contract operation to figure and include within his bid to furnish a bond
in the sum and conditioned as the law of the State of Mississippi requires, in a surety company satisfactory to the Owner or Architects."
"The bond shall . .. secure the Owner the faithful performance of
the contract, in strict accordance with plans and specifications," and
"shall protect the Owner against all liens or claims that may be filed
against the building according to the laws of the State of Mississippi."

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

to perform the contract, the obligation shall be void,
otherwise to remain in force, provided, however, that the
obligee shall have complied with certain conditions precedent for the protection of the surety. One is that the
terms of the building contract shall be faithfully fulfilled
in so far as they call for performance on the part of the
owner, the surety to be relieved of all liability in the
event of a default. Another is that if the obligee shall
have notice of any claim against the contractor for unpaid labor or material, no further payments shall be made
by the obligee to the contractor until such claims are
satisfied. Finally, in an effort to cut off materialmen and
laborers, the bond provides that "no right of action
shall accrue upon or by reason hereof to or for the benefit
of any one other than the obligee named herein."
The contractors for the building made default in the
performance of their contract owing large sums of money
to materialmen and laborers, including Acme Engineering
Co., ppellee's assignor. Thereupon, the Investment
Company, the owner, sued in the Chancery Court of
Adams County, Mississippi for a decree construing the
bond, adjudging that it was subject to the rights and
liabilities defined in § 3 of the statute, and determining
the proportionate interests of those entitled thereunder.
The contractors, the surety, and various subcontractois,
materialmen and laborers were joined as defendants, as
well as an assignee of moneys due upon the contract.
Other subcontractors and materialmen intervened and
by cross-bill and otherwise sought relief upon the bond.
The Supreme Court of Mississippi held upon demurrer
that the bond was one for the faithful performance of a
building contract within § 3 of the statute; that its effect
was to substitute a new security for the protection of
materialmen and laborers in place of that provided by
§§ 1 and 2; and that by force of that substitution the contractor had become free to assign and dispose of the

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. NELSON CO. 357
352

Opinion of the Court.

contract and the proceeds thereof. An assignment to a
bank of moneys due from the owner to the amount of
upwards of $26,000 was accordingly sustained. Hartford
Accident & I. Co. v. Natchez Investment Co., 155 Miss.
31; 119 So. 366. The cause having been remanded to the
Court of Chancery, there was a trial of the issues, which
was followed by a new appeal. Hartford Accident & I.
Co. v. Natchez Investment Co., 161 Miss. 198, 219; 132
So. 535, 135 So. 497. On that appeal the court reiterated
its ruling as to the operation of the bond. It held that
"none of the provisions of the bond had the effect of writing out of the contract" the provisions of the statute,
"and could not have that effect." "All stipulations contrary to the statutory provisions must be disregarded so
far as persons furnishing labor or material are concerned."
An appeal to this court was dismissed for defect of parties.
Hartford Accident & I. Co. v. Bunn, 285 U.S. 169.
In the meantime, the N. 0. Nelson Manufacturing
Company, the present appellee, had intervened in the
Court of Chancery by leave of that court, and had made
claim to its proportionate share of the proceeds of the
bond. The surety renewed the contest, as it was privileged to do (Bigelow v. Old Dominion Copper Co., 225
U.S. 111, 127), insisting that the bond was unaffected by
the statute, and that there could be no holding to the contrary without an arbitrary interference with liberty of contract and a resulting violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Chancellor, overruling these contentions,
gave judgment upon the bond in favor of the intervening
claimant. The Supreme Court of Mississippi affirmed
upon the authority of its earlier opinions. 147 So. 815.
See also U. S. F. & G. Co. v. Parsons, 147 Miss. 335; 112
So. 469. An appeal to this court followed, the surety on
the appeal bond joining as appellant with the surety on
the bond in suit. Hartford Accident & I. Co. v. Bunn,
supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

As to the meaning of the statute now challenged as
invalid the Supreme Court of Mississippi speaks with
ultimate authority. Knights of Pythias v. Meyer, 265
U.S. 30, 32; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Sunburst Co., 287
U.S. 358, 362; Guaranty Trust Co. v. Blodgett, 287 U.S.
509, 513. We assume in accordance with its ruling that
the statute was intended to apply to such a bond as the one
in controversy here, and to blot out the clauses repugnant
to tjhe statutory scheme. The only question in this court
is whether the result is consistent with the Constitution of
the United States. Opposition is asserted by counsel for
the surety. We think it is unreal.
Materialmen and laborers may be secured by mechanics' liens upon land improved or affected by their
material or labor, and this without reference to technical
and ancient concepts of privity of contract. Great
Southern Hotel Co. v. Jones, 193 U.S. 532, 550; Jones v.
Great Southern Hotel Co., 86 Fed. 370; Piedmont &
Georges Creek Coal Co. v. Seaboard Fisheries Co., 254
U.S. 1, 9, 10. For like reasons they may be secured as
against the owner by a lien upon any moneys due to the
contractor, and secured as against the contractor by a
lien upon any moneys collected from the owner. Hartford Accident & I. Co. v. Natchez Investment Co., 155
Miss. 31, 51; 119 So. 366; U. S. F. & G. Co. v. Parsons,
supra; cf. United States v. American Surety Co., 200 U.S.
197; Mankin v. United States, 215 U.S. 533; Illinois
Surety Co. v. John Davis Co., 244 U.S. 376, 380. The
fundamental librerties protected by the Fourteenth
Amendment do not include immunity from restraints so
deeply rooted in policy and justice. Hardware Dealers
Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. Glidden Co., 284 U.S. 151, 157;
Advance-Rumely Thresher Co. v. Jackson, 287 U.S. 283.
The owner sontracting with a builder or making payments under the contract may be required to give heed
to the equities of a subcontractor or a workman adding

HARTFORD ACCIDENT CO. v. NELSON CO. 359
352

Opinion of the Court.

value to the land. The builder may be required to give
heed to the same equities in contracting with the owner
or in disposing of his contract or of the moneys paid
thereunder.
The statute of Mississippi was framed in a genuine endeavor to make these equities prevail. Neither owner
nor builder is commanded to give a bond, though decisions are not lacking that such a command will be upheld." Cf. Gant v. Oklahoma City, 289 U.S. 98; Brazee
v. Michigan, 241 U.S. 340. All that the statute does by
force of § 3 is to standardize the form, at least in some
particulars, when bonds are freely given, and to define
the consequences attaching to the standard thus prescribed. The form shall include a clause for the protection of materialmen and laborers: the consequences shall
include the exemption of the owner from the burden of
a lien, and a like exemption of the builder. U. S. F. &
G. Co. v. Parsons, supra. The security of the bond becomes a substitute for the security of the building contract and of the moneys due thereunder. No arbitrary
restraint of liberty of contract is laid upon the owner.
His personal liability toward materialmen and laborers
is not greater by a dollar than it was at the beginning.
To the contrary, it is less. By force of the new security
he is relieved of the burden of a lien, yet he has priority
of interest in the proceeds of any suit upon the bond. See
§ 3 quoted ante. No arbitrary restraint of liberty is laid
upon the builder. Upon the giving of a bond he is charged
with a liability in favor of materialmen and laborers, a
liability consistent with fair dealing between men in that
relation, but he is relieved of the duty of holding present
'Rio Grande Lumber Co. v. Darke, 50 Utah 114; 167 Pac. 241;
Roystone .Co. v. Darling, 171 Cal. 526; 154 Pac. 15; American Lndemnity Co. v. Burrows Hardware Co., (Texas) 191 S.W. 574; cf.,
however, Gibbs v. Tally, 133 Cal. 373; 65 Pac. 970; Hess v. Denman
Lumber Co., (Texas) 218 S.W. 162, 164.

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

and future payments as a fund impressed with a trust and
devoted to specific uses.- U. S. F. & G. Co. v. Parsons,
supra. Indeed, this very builder took advantage of that
privilege, making an assignment of the contract and its
proceeds to a bank; and because of the bond the assignment was upheld. Hartford Accident & I. Co. v. Natchez
Investment Co., 155 Miss. 31, 53; 119 So. 366. Plainly
-he is in no position to complain that the statute is invalid in its application to himself. Indeed, owner and
builder do not declare themselves aggrieved, but through
silence and inaction, if not otherwise, evince submission
and consent. The only other person whose interests are
affected is the surety on the bond. If the statute is valid
in its application to owner and builder, to obligee and
principal, there can be no privilege of the surety to contract on better terms. The secondary obligation must follow the primary one, and conform to its restraints. The
surety has the alternative either to write its indemnities
and guaranties upon the only terms permitted to obligee
and principal, or to renounce the writing altogether. The
business of insurance is one peculiarly subject to supervision and control. German Alliance Ins. Co. v. Kansas,
233 U.S. 389; National Union Fire Ins. Co. v. Wanberg,
260 U.S. 71; Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v.
Glidden Co., supra. The Fourteenth Amendment does
not make it necessary that materialmen and laborers shall
be deprived of fair protection to the end that sureties for
profit may be given an opportunity to diversify their
bonds.
Liberty of contract is not an absolute concept. Hardware Dealers Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. Glidden Co., supra;
ldvance-Rumely Thresher Co. v. Jackson, supra; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U.S. 186,
202; Chicago, B. & Q. Ry. Co. v. McGuire, 219 U.S. 549,
567; Mutual Loan Co. v. Martell, 222 U.S. 225, 235;
Highland v. Russell Car & Snow Pow Co., 279 U.S. 253,

NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.
352

Syllabus.

261. It is relative to many conditions of time and place
and circumstance. The constitution has not ordained
that the forms of business shall be cast in imperishable
moulds. There is no question here of the impairment
of the obligation of a contract by later legislation. The
act assailed by the appellants was in existence for many
years before the bond in suit was written. Principal and
surety in writing it became subject to the statutes then
in force, and by these they must abide.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Mississippi is

accordingly

Affirmed.
NEW JERSEY v. DELAWARE.

No. 13, original.

Argued January 9, 10, 1934.-Decided February
5, 1934.

1. The boundary between Delaware and New Jersey within a circle
of twelve-miles about the town of New Castle, is the low-water
mark of the Delaware River on the East, or New Jersey, side;
and below the circle it is the Thalweg or main channel of navigation
in Delaware River and Delaware Bay. Pp. 363, 385.
2. Delaware's title to the river bed within the circle is derived
as follows:
(1) From a feoffment, describing the Delaware territory within
the circle, including the river, its islands and soil, made by
the Duke of York to William Penn, August 24, 1682, when the
present territory of Delaware, having been taken over from the
Dutch, was governed as a dependency of the Government and
Colony of New York under governors commissioned by the Duke.
P. 364.
(2) Letters patent, March 22, 1682/3, from the Crown, granting to the Duke of York the identical lands and waters described
in the deed of feoffment, and inuring to the feoffee by virtue of
a covenant for further assurance contained in the deed of
feoffment. P. 365.
(3) Confirmation of the title by practically uninterrupted possession of the Delaware territory on the part of Penn and his successors, as Proprietaries and Governors, from the date of the
feoffment to the Revlution. P. 368.

