OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

426

Syllabus.

291 U.S.

§ 13 could admit the alien in his discretion, the fine would
still stand. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals
in the view that § 13 (f) "preserves the fine against any
discretionary admission."
Equally unavailing is the plea that the fine, as prescribed, is indivisible, and hence that no fine whatever
can be imposed where the alien is admitted and the transportation company, for that reason, has not been required
to return the passage money. It is true that the requirement of the payment of the passage money is for the
benefit of the alien and the reason for that part of the
penalty disappears on the alien's admission. But although admission in certain cases is contemplated by § 13,
liability to fine under § 16 is none the less maintained.
We think it follows that, in a case of admission, the fine
of $1000 can legally be imposed without requiring payment of the passage money and the fact that the latter
has not been required gives plaintiff no ground for
complaint.
Plaintiff was charged with knowledge of the statute
and brought in the alien in violation of its provisions.
Compare Elting v. North German Lloyd, 287 U:S. 324,
328, 329. The judgment is
Affirmed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. AMERICAN CHICLE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 349.

Argued February 6, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

Under the Revenue Acts of 1921, 1924 and 1926, a corporation which
acquired all of the assets and assumed all of the liabilities of
another, and thereafter purchased in the open market some of the

latter's bonds at less than their face value, held to have realized

HELVERING v. AMER. CHICLE CO.
426

Argument for Petitioner.

a taxable gain in the difference between the face value of the bonds
and the amount it paid for them. United States v. Kirby Lumber,
Co., 284 U.S. 1. P. 430.
65 F. (2d) 454, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 616, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 23 B.T.A.
221.

Mr. Erwin N. Griswold, with whom Solicitor General
Biggs and Messrs. Sewal Key and Norman D. Keller
were on the brief, for petitioner.
Income may arise from the reduction of a liability as
well as from an increase in value of the property subsequently realized by a sale or other disposition. Since
the income tax laws are based upon the results of annual
transactions, there is no need to await the sale of the
property before taxing the gain realized upon the extinguishment of an obligation incurred in acquiring the
property. Here there were separate and independent
transactions. In the first, the assets were acquired and
their cost was definitely fixed when the respondent assumed the obligation of the bonds. The bonds were retired in subsequent years in a separate series of transactions between the respondent and persons other than
the corporation from which the property was acquired.
Such separate transactions gave rise to taxable income in
the years when they occurred. Since income may be derived by, the receipt of property as well as cash, the differe;ice in facts between this case and the Kirby Lumber
case, 284 U.S. 1, should not lead to a different result.
Commissioner v. Coastwise Transp. Corp., 62 F. (2d) 332,
supports petitioner's position. Bowers v. Kerbaugh-Empire Co., 271 U.S. 170, was 'based on the fact that the
whole of the property acquired had been lost, and that the
subsequent favorable retirement was merelY a diminution
of the loss,-a situation which does not exist here.

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Mr. William C. Breed, with whom Mr. Paul L. Peyton
was on the brief, for respondent.
This case is simply a purchase of property coupled with
a payment on the purchase price during the taxable years
pursuant to the obligation assumed by respondent. There
has been no completed transaction, no realization of any
loss or gain to respondent, because respondent still owns
the property on which it has settled a bond liability at
less than the face amount, resulting in a lower cost of the
entire property. No sale, exchange or parting with title
has taken place, and there are no means of knowing
whether respondent will realize a profit or a loss on the
transaction until and unless it sells or disposes of the
property in question.
In order to lay any basis for ascertaining a taxable
gain or loss under petitioner's theory, it would seem there
would have -to be an appraisal of the property to determine whether the total cost was more or less than such
appraised value. However, an attempt to determine a
gain or loss on this theory, where no sale or parting with
title has taken place and nothing has been realized upon
the transaction, would be contrary to the notion underlying our system of taxation. Distinguishing United
States v. Kirby Lumber Co. 284 U.S. 1.
MR. JUSTICE. M'cREY.NOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Assessments by petitioner which treated as realized income the difference between the face value of certain
bonds assumed by respondent in 1914 and the amount at
which it purchased them in 1922, 1924 and 1925, were
disapproved by the Board of Tax Appeals. The court below affirmed this action, and the matter is here by certiorari. The meager stipulated facts present only a narrow
point; and to that our decision must be limited.

HELVERING v. AMER. CHICLE CO.
426

Opinion of the Court.

Respondent is a New Jersey corporation the nature of
whose business is undisclosed. Its books are kept on the
accrual basis.
The Sen Sen Chiclet Company, incorporated under the
laws of Maine, also carried on an undisclosed business.
In 1909 it issued a series of 20 year bonds-whether secured by a lien, or otherwise, does not appear. The indenture under which they issued required that $50,000
be supplied each year which the trustee should use for
purchasing outstanding bonds.
In 1914 respondent bought all assets of the Sen Sen
Company. In part payment it assumed all outstanding
liabilities of the seller-among them $2,425,000 of the
1909 bonds. There is nothing in the record to show the
nature of these assets, or what became of them, or the outcome of the transaction.
Respondent purchased in 1922 $82,000 of the Sen Sen
bonds for $55,650.94-$26,349.06 less than their face.
During 1924 it and the trustee under the indenture purchased $59,000 of the same bonds for $47,602.10-$11,397.90 below their par value. Likewise, during 1925 they
purchased $201,500 for $186,146.31-$15,353.69 less than
their face.
The Commissioner treated these differences-26,349.06, $11,397.90 and $15,353.69-as income realized by
respondent. The Board of Tax Appeals ruled otherwise
and said"The payments involved in the transactions under consideration were payments on the purchase price of the
Sen Sen Chiclet Company's assets, paid, under the conditions of the agreement, to the holders of that company's
bonds. When all of the bonds have been retired by the
petitioner its obligations to the Sen Sen Chiclet Company
will have been satisfied in full, and whatever the total
amount paid to retire the bonds, it will constitute a

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

part of the cost to petitioner of the Sen Sen Chiclet Co.
assets."
In support of the same view, the Circuit Court of Appeals said"When a taxpayer gets money by issuing an obligation which he later discharges for less than its face, the
transaction is completed, because money need not be sold
or exchanged to be ' realized.' So we read United States
v. Kirby Lumber Co., supra, 284 U.S. 1, 52 S.Ct. 4, 76
L.Ed. 131. But if he buys property by an obligation in
the form of a bond, note, or the like, and if it remains in
kind after the debt is paid, there can be no 'gain.' The
cost has indeed been definitively settled, but that is only
one term of the equation; as long as the other remains at
large, there is no 'realized' gain." 65 F. (2d) 455.
We know nothing concerning the nature of the assets
acquired from the Sen Sen Company, have no means of
ascertaining what has become of them, or whether any of
them still exist. Nothing indicates whether respondent
lost or gained by the transaction.
The case before us is this:
In connection with the purchase of the assets of another company, in 1914, respondent assumed-promised
to pay-more than $2,000,000 of the seller's outstanding
bonds. During 1922, 1924 and 1926 it purchased a considerable number of these bonds in the market at less
than their face. The Commissioner assessed the difference between these two amounts as income.
We find nothing to distinguish this cause in principle
from(United States v. Kirby Lumber Co., 284 U.S. 1. The
doctrine there announced is controlling here. Bowers v.
Kerbaugh-Empire Co., 271 U.S. 170 is not applicable.
The final outcome of the dealings was revealed-the taxpayer suffered a loss. Here, for aught we know, there was
substantial profit--certainly, the record does not show the

CHASE NATIONAL BANK v. NORWALK.
426

43i

Syllabus.

contrary. Doubtless, respondent's books indicated a decrease of liabilities with corresponding increase of net
assets.
Reversed.
CHASE NATIONAL BANK v. CITY OF NORWALK.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT' COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 290.

Argued January 18, 19, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

1. An injunction may not extend to persons who merely acquire
notice of it but who are neither parties to the suit nor confederates
or associates of the defendant. P. 436.
2. A decree against a mortgagor with respect to property does not
bind a mortgagee whose interest was acquired before the commencement of the suit and who was not a party to it. P. 438.
3. In quo warranto brought by the State at the request of a city,
but to which, under the state law, the city could not be made a
party, there was a judgment of ouster against an electric power
company using the city streets, upon the ground that its franchise,
which it claimed to be perpetual, had in truth expired-held:
(1) That the trustee under an antecedent mortgage claiming a
valid subsisting lien on the company's property, including the franchise which it claimed to be perpetual, and who was not a party
to the quo warranto proceeding, was entitled to come into the
federal court in a suit against the city alone, on the ground of
diversity of citizenship, to protect its alleged property rights and
to have its claims there adjudicated. P. 437.
(2) That a decree in the suit, enjoining the city, its attorneys,
agents and confederates, (a) from removing the poles and wires
without state warrant, and (b) from attempting to induce the
State to enforce the judgment of ouster, would not be an injunction
staying the proceedings in the state court, within the meaning of
§ 265 of the Judicial Code. P. 439.
4. Though one seeking an injunction against a judgment on the
ground of fraud or mistake should show that he had no opportunity to correct the judgment in the original proceeding and was
not lacking in diligence, such a showing is unnecessary where, be-

