ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
584

587

Syllabus.

Federal Compress Co. v. McLean; and the rule there declared must govern here. Ginning cotton, transporting it
to Greenwood, and warehousing, buying and compressing
it there, are eachlike the growing of it, steps in preparalion for the sale and shipment in interstate or foreign commerce. But each step prior to the sale and shipment is a
transaction local to Mississippi, a transaction in intrastate
commerce. Hence those engaged in performing any such
local function may be subjected to an occupation tax, just
as the property used, or processed, by them may be subjected to a property tax.
There is nothing in Dahnke-Walker Milling Co. v.
Bondurant, 257 U.S. 282 or in Lemke v. Farmers Grain
Co., 258 U.S. 50, inconsistent with this conclusion. The
regulations involved in those cases were found to impose
a direct burden upon interstate commerce itself. Stafford
v. Wallace, 258 U.S. 495, is also in harmony with the rule
here applied. See Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U.S. 1, 7-8.
Affirmed.

ARROW-HART & HEGEMAN ELECTRIC CO. v.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 363.

Argued February 8, 1934.-Decided March 12, 1934.

After commencement of a proceeding by the Federal Trade Commission to compel a holding company to divest itself of the voting
stock of two competing operating companies, held by it in alleged
violation of the Clayton Act, a reorganization was brought about
through united participation of the owners of the holding company's shares and of the preferred stock of the operating companies, which the holding company never owned, whereby all the
properties of the operating companies were acquired, through
mergers, by a new corporation and the holding company was
completely dissolved, pursuant to the state law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

291 U.S.

Held, that the jurisdiction of the Commission was ousted; that
it had no power,--even on the assumption that the reorganization
was a device of the dissolved corporation to evade §§ 7 and 11 of
the Act-to bring in the new corporation as a respondent and
require it to divest itself of -one or the other of the operating plants.
Thatcher Mfg. Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 272 U.S. 554; Federal Trade Comm'n v. Western Meat Co., 272 U.S. 554. P. 594.
65 F. (2d) 336, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 622, to review a judgment affirm-

ing an order of the Federal Trade Commission.
Mr. CharlesNeave, with whom Messrs. Arthur F. Mullen, Arthur L. Shipman, Charles Welles Gross, and
Wallace W. Brown were on the brief, for petitioner.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Stephens and Messrs. Moses S. Huberman, Robert E. Healy, and Everett F. Haycraft were on the brief,
for respondent.
After the Commission issued its complaint, the original respondent, by means of its illegal stock control,
caused petitioner to be created by the consolidation of
the two manufacturing corporations. The purpose of
the consolidation was to oust the Commission of its jurisdiction. All of the directors, officers, and stockholders of
the original respondent became the directors, officers and
voting stockholders of petitioner. Under § 11 of the
Clayton Act, read in the light of its general purpose and
applied with a view to effectuate such purpose, the Commission had jurisdiction to join petitioner, as a party respondent, in the pending proceeding and to order
petitioner to divest itself of the assets of one or the other
Federal Trade
of the manufacturing corporations.
Comm'n v. Western Meat Co., 272 U.S. 554, 559. Unless this be true, the Commission has no power to enforce
compliance with this provision of the Clayton Act.

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
587

589

Opinion of the C6urt.

MR. JusTICn ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Circuit Court of Appeals 1 affirmed an order of

the Federal. Trade Commission issued pursuant to § 7
of the Clayton Act.2 A writ of certiorari was granted
upon the claim of petitioner that the formation of a
holding company which acquired all the voting shares of
two manufacturing corporations was not in violation of
the section, or, if it was, the merger of the two manufacturing corporations and dissolution of the holding
company after complaint by the Federal Trade Commission deprived the latter of jurisdiction to make any
order against the company formed by the merger. A
proper understanding of these contentions requires a
somewhat detailed statement of events prior and subsequent to the issuance of the complaint.
The Arrow Electric Company, hereafter called Arrow,
and the Hart & Hegeman Manufacturing Company, hereafter called Hart & Hegeman, were Connecticut corpora,
tions engaged in the manufacture and sale in interstate
commerce of electric wiring devices. Both were solvent
and successful. There was no community of ownership
of the stock of the two concerns. Each had valuable
trade names by which its goods were known to consumers.
'65 F. (2d) 336.
'Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, §.7, 38 Stat. 731; U.S.C. Title 15,
§ 18. The relevant paragraph is as follows:
"No corporation shall acquire, directly or indirectly, the whole or
any part of the stock or other share capital of two or more corporations engaged in commerce where the effect of such acquisition, or
the use of such stock by the voting or granting of proxies or otherwise, may be to substantially lessen competition between such corporations, or any of them, whose stock or other share capital is so
acquired, or to restrain such commerce in any section or community,
or tend to create a monopoly of any line of commerce."

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Shortly after the death of the principal stockholder, who
was also the president, of Hart & Hegeman, the major
interests in that company got into touch with those controlling Arrow, and after some negotiation it was agreed
that economies could be effected if the business of both
were brought under common control. Inview, however,
of the competition between the goods known by the names
of the two manufacturing companies, it was thought that
the trade names and the identity of the goods could best
be preserved by retaining the separate corporate entities
and the sales forces of the two organizations. The plan
evolved was, therefore, that of a holding company which
should own all of the common shares of both corporations, under the control of which the manufacturing and
sales organizations should be kept separate and distinct
and in competition with each other as theretofore. In
order to bring about an equitable division of the stock
of the proposed holding corporation, Arrow issued to its
common stockholders a dividend in preferred stock. The
recipients sold the preferred shares to a syndicate, which
in turn sold them tD the public. Hart & Hegeman increased its common stock and issued the new stock as a
stock dividend. It also created an issue of preferred stock,
which was sold to the public. Prior to the acquisition of
the common stock by the holding company the capitalization was as follows:
Arrow-Common stock, $750,000, par $25. Preferred
stock, $2,000,000, par $100.
Hart & Hegeman--Common stock, $500,000, par $25,
Preferred stock, $1,333,300 par $100.
The holders of preferred stock in each company were
without the right to vote for directors except upon, default in the payment of six successive dividends, in which
case the preferred stockholders were entitled to elect the
board. In October, 1927, Arrow-Hart & Hegeman, Incorporated, hereafter called the holding company, was

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
587

591

Opinion of the Odurt.

organized under the laws of Connecticut. It had only
common stock. The owners of all of the common shares
of Arrow exchanged them for 120,000 shares of the stock
of the holding company and the owners of all the common
shares of Hart & Hegeman exchanged them for 80,000.
shares of the same stock.
On March 3,1928, the Federal Trade Commission issued
a complaint in which it charged the effect of the holding
and voting of all of the common shares of the two operating companies might be to substantially lessen ompetition
between the companies in electrical wiring devices, to
restrain commerce in those devices, and to create a monopoly. The holding company filed an answer traversing
these allegations. Shortly thereafter counsel advised that
the company be dissolved and its assets, consisting of the
stock of Arrow and of Hart & Hegeman, be distributed
amongst its stockholders, and that thereupon the two latter companies merge into a single corporation under the
laws of Connecticut, thus transferring to the new corporation to be formed by merger all of the assets of Arrow and
of Hart & Hegeman.
It was discovered that such a program might cast heavy
taxes upon the stockholders, and a modification was suggested to work out the plan in accordance with the reorganization sections of the Revenue Act of 1928. The
stockholders of the holding company and the preferred
stockholders of both the operating companies were notified of the original plan and of its modification, and
proxies were asked so that their votes might be recorded
at corporate meetings intended to be held to carry out the
proposal. A two-thirds vote of both preferred and common stock is required by the law of Connecticut to
authorize a merger.
In lieu of the original program of distribution of the
shares owned by the holding company to it; stockholders,
the shares of Arrow were transferred to a new company,

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

called the Arrow Manufacturing Company, and those of
Hart & Hegeman to another new company, known as
the H. & H. Electric Company, against the issue of all
of the shares of these companies respectively. The stock
so to be issued by these two new holding companies was,
by the direction of the original holding company, issued
directly to its stockholders. As soon as this transfer of
all its assets had been made to the two new holding companies by the old one, the latter by corporate action dissolved. Thereafter, pursuant to directors' action, the
stockholders, preferred and common, of the four companies having an interest in the assets (Arrow, Hart &
Hegeman, Arrow Manufacturing Company, and the H.
& H. Electric Company) approved a merger agreement
whereby the petitioner, The Arrow-Hart & Hegeman
Electric Company, was formed, which directly owned in
its own right all of the assets formerly belonging to Arrow
and to Hart & Hegeman. These transactions were consummated on or prior to December 31, 1928, except that
the dissolution of the first holding company did not become final until April 11, 1929, the law of Connecticut
providing that a final certificate of dissolution should not
issue until four months after the filing of the resolution
for dissolution.
January 11, 1929, counsel notified the Commission of
the dissolution of the holding company and the formation of the petitioner. June 29, 1929, the Commission
issued a supplemental complaint, entitled jointly against
the holding company (the original respondent) and the
petitioner (the corporation formed by the merger). After
reciting in greater detail than above set forth the action
taken, this complaint asserted that the formation of the
petitioner was brought about by the contrivance and at
the instigation of the holding company; that the conveyance of the stocks of Arrow and Hart & Hegeman to
the two new holding companies failed to restore the assets

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
587

593

Opinion of the Court.

to the ownership and control of separate groups in the
manner the shares were held and controlled before the
formation of the original holding company; that the result
of the whole plan was not a restoration of competition as
required by'the act of Congress, and that the Commission's jurisdiction having timely attached could not be
ousted by the steps subsequently taken.
Petitioner answered the supplemental complaint, the
matter was heard, and the Commission made its findings.
In addition to the facts above recited,. the Commission
found that at the time of the acquisition of the stocks of
Arrow and Hart & Hegeman by the holding company,
those corporations were in direct and substantial competition in interstate commerce, and after the formation of
the holding company competition between them had been
substantially curtailed. The Commission concluded: The
acquisition by the holding company of the shares of the
two manufacturing companies might substantially lessen
competition between them, restrain interstate commerce,
and create a monopoly; the divestment by the holding
company was not a compliance with the Clayton Act; the
petitioner was organized by the holding company, and
its creation was an artifice to evade the provisions of
§§ 7 and 11 of the Clayton Act; and the effect of the
organization of the petitioner and "the acquisition by it
of the common or voting stocks of" Arrow and Hart &
Hegeman has been, is, and may b3e to suppress competition
between the two manufacturing companies, to restrain interstate commerce, and to create a monopoly.
The Commission entered an order commanding the
petitioner to cease and desist from violation of the provisions of § 7 of the Clayton Act, and to divest itself "of
all the common stock of" Hart & Hegeman "so as to
include in such divestment "the said company's manufacturing plants and equipment, and all other 1Vroperty necessary to the conduct and operation thereof as a complete

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

A U.S.

going concern, and so as neither directly nor indirectly to
retain any of the fruits of the acquisition of common stock
of Hart & Hegeman; or, in the alternative, to divest itself
of "all the common stock of" Arrow in the same manner.
It was further ordered "that such divestment of the common stock or assets" of Arrow or Hart & Hegeman, as
the case might be, should not be made directly or indirectly to the petitioner or any stockholders, officers,
employees, or agents of or under the control of the
petitioner.
The findings with respect to the effect of the acquisition and ownership by the holding company of the shares
of the two manufacturing corporations are attacked as unsupported in fact and unjustified in law. The record is
said to disclose that competition was not in fact diminished but preserved. And it is further argued that if competition was or might be in some measure curtailed by the
device of a holding company the result is unimportant and
insignificant unless the public was injured, and not only is
there a total absence of proof of injury to the public, but
much affirmative evidence that consumers were benefited
by reduction of prices consequent on manufacturing efficiency made possible by unified control.
It is unnecessary to discuss or to decide the questions
thus raised, for we think the Commission lacked authority
to issue any order against the petitioner.
Section 7 of the Clayton Act forbids any corporation
to acquire the whole or any part of the share capital of
two or more corporations, where the effect of the acquisition or the use of the stock by voting or otherwise may be
to substantially lessen competition between such corporations, restrain competition in interstate commerce or
create a monopoly in any line of commerce. Section 11 1
specifies the remedy which the Commission may apply,
'U.S.C., Title 15, § 21.

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
587

595

Opinion of the Court.

namely, that it may, after hearing, order the violator to
divest itself of the stock held contrary to the terms of
the Act. The statute does not forbid the acquirement of
property, or the merger of corporations pursuant to
state laws, nor does it provide any machinery for compelling a divestiture of assets acquired by purchase or
otherwise, or the distribution of physical property brought
into a single ownership by merger.
If, instead of resorting to the holding company device,
the shareholders of Arrow and Hart & Hegeman had
caused a merger, this action would not have been a violation of the Act. And if, prior to complaint by the Commission, the holding company, in virtue of its status as
sole stockholder of the two operating companies, had
caused a conveyance of their assets to it, the Commission
would have been without power to set aside the transfers
or to compel a reconveyance. Thatcher Mfg. Co. v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 272 U.S. 554, 560, 561.
Clearly, also, if the holding company had, before complaint filed, divested itself of the shares of either or both
of the manufacturing companies, the Commission would
have been without jurisdiction. And it might with impunity, prior to complaint, have distributed the shares it
held pro rata amongst its stockholders. The fact that in
such case the same group of stockholders would have
owned shares in both companies, whereas theretofore some
owned stock in one corporation only, and some held stock
solely in the other, would not have operated to give the
Commission jurisdiction. For if the holding corporation
had effectually divested itself of the stock, the Commission could not deal with a condition thereafter developing
although thought by it to threaten results contrary to the
intent of the Act. Compare NationalHarness Mfrs. Assn.
v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 268 Fed. 705; Chamber of
Commerce v. Federal Trade Comm'n, 280 Fed. 45.

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Moreover, the holding company could have ousted the
Commission's jurisdiction after complaint filed, by divesting itself of the shares, for that was all the Commission
could order. And if it had so divested itself the transferees of the shares could immediately have brought about
a corporate merger without violating the Clayton Act.
We think that is precisely the legal effect of what was done
in the present case. The holding company divested itself
of the shares, and thereafter the-owners of these common
shares united with the holders of the preferred shares to
bring about a merger.
The Commission apparently was doubtful of its authority to promulgate the order which it entered. This
is evidenced by the terms of the findings and the order.
In its final conclusion the Commission refers to "the
acquisition by the said new respondent [the petitioner]
through merger, of the common or voting stocks of the
said Hart & Hegeman Manufacturing Company and
Arrow Electric Company . . .,"and denominates this a

violation of § 7 of the Clayton Act. This, of course, is in
the teeth of the obvious fact that the petitioner never
acquired the stock. of either Arrow or Hart & Hegeman.
In its order the Commission directs that the petitioner
cease and desist from violation of the provisions of § 7 of
the Act, and "divest itself absolutely, in good faith, of
all common stock of the Hart & Hegeman Manufacturing
Company acquired by it as a result of the merger "; and
then adds that it shall do this so as to include in such
divestment the manufacturing plants and assets of Hart &
Hegeman; and in the alternative the order applies to the
stock and manufacturing plants of Arrow. This is a tacit
admission that the Commission is without jurisdiction to
act unless the alleged violator holds stocks of other corporations. The Commission's own findings show that the
petitioner never held any stock of either company, but the

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
587

597

Opinion of the Court.

order, nevertheless, requires that the petitioner divest
itself of those stocks.
The argument on behalf of the Commission is that
while it is true the petitioner never owned any stock of
Arrow or Hart & Hegeman, the holding company, against
whom the complaint was originally directed, did hold such
stocks in violation of the statute when the proceeding
was initiated; and, instead of parting with the shares in
good faith, ineffectually attempted to alter the status by
initiating and carrying through the merger, the dissolution of which is the aim of the Commission's order.
We think the Commission's premise with respect to the
activities of the holding company in bringing about the
merger is without support. When the Commission filed
its complaint those who had previously been the common
stockholders of Arrow and Hart & Hegeman, respectively,
had become the owners of the shares of the holding company. While those shares represented at two removes the
physical assets of the enterprise, they nevertheless evidenced the equity ownership of those assets. At that
time Arrow and Hart & Hegeman were still separate corporate entities, and about 73% of their outstanding capital stock was preferred stock held by the public, in no wise
affected by the creation of the holding company. After
the holding company had conveyed the Arrow stock to
a new holding company, and the Hart'& Hegeman stock
to another new holding company, the only persons who
could bring about a merger and consequent consolidation
of assets were the preferred and common stockholders of
Arrow and Hart & Hegeman. Under the laws of Connecticut two-thirds of the outstanding stock of each class
had to vote affirmatively to authorize a merger. While
the holding company proposed the plan for accomplishing a merger, and sponsored the preliminary steps to that
end, obviously that company had no power to consum-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

mate it. That power resided in the equity owners of the
assets, the preferred and common stockholders of Arrow
and Hart & Hegeman. The common stockholders acted
through the two holding companies, but the ultimate decision and action was theirs, through whatever instrumentality effected. Quite as vital to the accomplishment
of the plan was the consent of preferred stockholders.
It is true the consent was given through execution of
proxies; but the shareholders were at liberty to give or
to withhold their proxies, and it would be quite beyond
reason to hold, as the Commission suggests, that all corporate entities and all stockholder relationship to the
property should be disregarded and the original holding
company be treated as the sole and efficient agent in the
accomplishment of the merger. To do this would be to
disregard the actualities, including the fact that the holding company had been effectually dissolved before the
merger was voted upon by any of those having an equity
interest in the assets.
But if we assume that the holding company against
which the complaint was originally directed, brought
about a change in legal status, so that before the Commission acted that company ceased to exist, as did the
shares it formerly owned, and a corporation formed by
merger held all the assets in direct ownership, the respondent's position is no better. The Commission is an
administrative body possessing only such powers as are
granted by statute. It may make only such orders as
the Act authorizes; may order a practice to be discontinued and shares held in violation of the Act to be disposed of; but, that accomplished, has not the additional
powers of a court of equity to grant other.and further
relief by ordering property of a different sort to be conveyed or distributed, on the theory that this is necessary
to render effective the prescribed statutory remedy. Coin-

ARROW-HART& H. CO. v. COMM'N.
587

STONE,

599

J., dissenting.

pare Federal Trade Comm'n v. Eastman Kodak Co., 274
U.S. 619, 623. Where shares acquired in violation of the
Act are still held by the offending corporation an order
of divestiture may be supplemented by a provision that
in the process the offender shall not acquire the property
represented by the shares. Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Western Meat Co., 272 U.S. 554. In the present case the
stock which had been acquired contrary to the Act was
no longer owned by the holding company when the Commission made its order. Not only so, but the holding
company itself had been dissolved. The petitioner, which
came into being as a result of merger, was not in existence
when the proceeding against the holding company was
initiated by the Commission, and never held any stock
contrary to the terms of the statute. If the merger of
the two manufacturing corporations and the combination
of their assets was in any respect a violation of any antitrust law, as to which we express no opinion, it was necessarily a violation of statutory prohibitions other than
those found in the Clayton Act. And if any remedy for
such violation is afforded, a court and not the Federal
Trade Commission is the appropriate forum. Compare
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Western Meat Co., supra.
The judgment- is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

dissenting.

I think the decree should be affirmed.
While this proceeding was pending before the Federal
Trade Commission to compel a holding company to divest
itself of the controlling common stock of two competing
corporations which it had acquired -in violation of § 7
of the Clayton Act, that stock was used to effectuate a
merger of the competing corporations. It is now declared
that, however gross the violation of the Clayton Act, how-

600

OCTOBER TIERM, 1033.
STONE,

J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

ever flagrant the flouting of the Commission's authority,
the celerity of the offender, in ridding itself of the stock

before the Commission could complete its hearings and
make an order restoring the independence of the competitors, leaves the Commission powerless to act against the
merged corporation. This is the case, it is said, because
the Clayton Act does not, in terms, forbid mergers, which
may be formed by the stockholders of independent competing corporations; and, since the holding company was
not the "sole and efficient agent in the accomplishment
of the merger," which was affected upon the consent of
the various classes of stockholders of the merged companies, it is concluded that the holding company, by its
divestment of the stock, complied with the Clayton Act
and in effect did "all the Commission could order," so
there is no longer any ground for complaint. Further,
notwithstanding the authority broadly conferred on the
Commission "to enforce compliance" with § 7 "whenever . .. any person . . . has violated" its provisions,

it is said that as the statute in terms specifies only a single
method by which compliance can be compelled--ordering
the offender to divest itself of the stock-the Commission
can make no other form of order.
Apart from the objection that the decision now reached
is calculated to encourage hasty and ill considered action
by the Commission in order to avoid defeat of its jurisdiction by the adroit manipulations of offenders against
the Clayton Act, I am unable to construe so narrowly
a statute designed, as I think, to prevent just such suppression of competition as this case exemplifies.
. 1. It is true that the Clayton Act does not forbid corporate mergers but it does forbid the acquisition by one
corporation of the stock of competing corporations so as
substantially to lessen competition. It follows that
mergers effected, as they commonly are, through such ac-

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
587

STONE,

J., dissenting.

quisition of stock necessarily involve violations of the
Act, as this one did. Only in rare instances would there
be hope of a successful merger of independently owned
corporations by securing the consent of their stockholdersin advance of the acquisition of a working stock control
of them. Hence the establishment of such control by the
purchase or pooling of the voting stock, often effected in
secrecy, is the normal first step toward consolidation. It
is by this process that most corporate consolidations have
been brought about, often by adding one consolidation
to another through periods of years. Compare Standard
Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U.S. 1; United States v.
American Tobacco Co., 221 U.S. 106; United States v.
U.S. Steel Corp., 251 U.S. 417; see Bonbright and Means,
The Holding Company, 30, 50.
Unless we are to close our eyes to this open chapter in
the record of corporate concentration, an examination of
the legislative history of the Clayton Act, and that of the
earlier Sherman Act, can leave no doubt that the former
was aimed at the acquisition of stock by holding companies not only as itself a means of suppressing competition but as the first and usual step in the process of
merging competing corporations by which u suppression'
of competition might be unlawfully perpetuated. Thus
one of the evils aimed at, the merger of competing corporations through stock control, was reached in its most
usual form by forbidding the first step, the acquisition
of the stock of a competing corporation, and by conferring
on the Trade Commission authority to deal with the
violation. It seems plain, therefore, that the illegality
involved in acquiring the common stock of the competing
companies, which was the first step toward the merger,
was neither lessened nor condoned by taking the next
and final steps in completing it. There is, then, no basis
for contending that the Act has not been violated, or that

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
S rONE, J., dissenting.

-

291 U.S.

the violation has been excused simply because events were
pushed to the very conclusion that § 7 was designed to
forestall.
2. -It is also true that the holding company divested
itself of the stock of the two competing operating companies before the Commission had an opportunity to make
its order; but it does not follow that it had done all that
the Commission could command and that thus the statute
was satisfied. Mere divestment of the stock is not enough.
The manner of divestment is likewise subject to the requirements of the Clayton Act. This Court has recognized that the purpose of the Act is to restore the competition suppressed by the acquisition of the stock and has
specifically held, over objections such as are now made,
that the Commission has power not only to order divestment but to prescribe that it shall be done in a manner
that will restore competition. Federal Trade Comm'n v.
Western Meat Co., 272 U.S. 554.
Here the Commission has held that the divestment was
not a compliance with the statute. In determining
whether it was right in this conclusion, the manner of divestment and the activity of the holding company after
the complaint of the Commission was filed and before the
final merger of the two operating companies are of crucial
significance.
When the complaint was filed the holding company was
in complete control of the two operating companies
through ownership of their common stock, -which alone
had voting power. From the moment of the acquisition
of the stock it had been and it continued to be a violator
of the Clayton Act. Promptly after the complaint was
filed it took measures to secure the fruits of its violation.
It first proposed by letter to its stockholders a consolidation of the two operating companies, and at a special meeting its board of directors formulated a detailed plan for
merger. This plan involved the organization of the two

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
587

STONE,

J., dissenting.

new holding companies, the transfer to them respectively
by the first holding company of its respective holdings of
the common stock in the two operating companies in exchange for the distribution by the new holding companies
of their stock to the stockholders of the first holding company. Thus for each share in the first holding company
owned by its stockholders they were to receive one share
in each of the new holding companies. The original holding cotnpany was then to be dissolved and the four remaining companies, the two new holding companies and
the two operating companies, were to be merged.
The plan, from the beginning, contemplated that the
four companies should be bound by formal agreement to
effect the merger. It was adopted at a specially called
meeting of the stockholders of the first holding company
and was carried into effect under its active direction and
control. Before its dissolution, by exercising that control
it had created the two new holding companies, committed
all four of its subsidiary corporations to the merger both
by their corporate action and by binding agreement, and
had secured the approval of its action by its own stockholders. It will be observed that the original holding
company did not divest itself of the stock of the two competing operating companies in the only manner by which
competition could have been restored;--by returning the
stock to the respective stockholders of the operating companies, from whom it had been secured, or to their successors. Instead, it continued the suppression of competition by placing the stock of the two operating companies
respectively in control of the two new holding companies,
tied by contract to effect the merger, and by the method
of distributing the stock of the new holding companies
equally to its own stockholders it lodged common ownership and control of both the new holding companies in the
two groups of stockholders of the original operating companies. The first holding company created the two new

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
SToNE, X., dissenting.

291 U.S.

ones and throughout guided their policy, as it did that of
the two operating companies. Acting in concert and in
accord with the prearranged plan, all co6perated in executing it, and all, together with their creature, the merged
company, were conscious beneficiaries of the violation of
the statute.
By thus manipulating its illegally acquired stock control of the operating companies, the first holding company
avoided such a distribution of the stock as would have
restored competition, and made easy the merger which,
if the stock had been returned to those from whom it had
originally been acquired, would have been difficult or impossible. Upon these and other facts, which need not now
be detailed, the Commission made its finding, abundantly
supported by evidence, that the course of action taken by
the holding company was not to restore competition between the operating companies, but was " an artifice and
subterfuge designed in an attempt to evade the Clayton
Act, to perpetuate the elimination of competition," which
it had brought about by the acquisition of the stock of the
operating companies.
That the stockholders in the successive holding companies, who were the ultimate owners of the operating
companies, consented to all this; that two-thirds of the
non-voting preferred stock of the operating companies
which .had never been lodged in the holding companies
consented to it; that the merger might possibly have
been effected in some other way, had competitive conditions been restored; all seems without significance. While
under local statutes merger could not have been effected
without the consent of the preferred stock, equally the
consent of the stock acquired through violation of the;
Clayton Act and its active promotion of the merger
were essential to the desired end. A prohibited act is no
less illegal because its success involves the co6peration
of other actors. It was the suppression of competition

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
587

STONE,

J., dissenting.

by the holding company, through the use which it made
of the illegally acquired stock of the operating companies, and its manner of disposing of the stock so as to
continue that suppression, which were violations of the
Clayton Act and in conflict with the authority of the
Commission. This was not any the less so because others
consented.
Doubts whether the divestment effected by the first
holding company was all that the Commission could have
ordered are dissipated by our decision in Federal Trade
Comm'n v. Western Meat Co., supra. There we upheld
an order of divestment which directed that in transferring the stock the respojpdent corporation could not use
it to acquire any of the property of the competing corporation, and that none of the stock could be transferred
to anyone having any connection with or in any way
under the influence of the offending corporation. Here
we need not go so far.
3. There remains the question whether the Commission is now powerless to undo a consummation which,
at an earlier stage, it could have prevented. It is said,
as a matter of statutory construction, that the grant to
the Commission of specific power to command offenders
to divest themselves of illegally acquired stock excludes
the possibility of its ordering anything more or different,
however incidental or necessary it may be to the exercise
of the granted power.
It would seem that this point also had been settled by
our decision in the Western Meat Company case, where
the offending company, through stock ownership, had acquired possession of the property and control of the business of a competitor. It wished to be free to divest itself
of the stock without restriction, in order that it might
acquire ownership of the competitor's property by transferring the stock to hands that would make merger easy.
It was argued to us there, as it is here, that the statute

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
STONN,

J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

provides only that the Commission may order divestment
of the stock; that it does not say that the Commission
can command relinquishment of the power, derived from
the stock ownership, to bring the competitor, or its property, under the control of the offending corporation, either
directly, or through transfer of the stock into friendly
hands. But that argument was rejected, and the order
directing divestment of both the property and stock by
placing both in the hands of those not under the influence or control of the offender was upheld. This Court
said, p. 559:
"Further violations of the Act through continued ownership could be effectively prevented only by requiring
the owner wholly to divest itself of the stock and thus
render possible once more free play of the competition
which 'had been wrongfully suppressed. The purpose
which the lawmakers entertained might be wholly defeated if the stock could be further used for securing the
competitor's property. And the same result would follow a transfer to one controlled by or acting for the
respondent."
No more here, than there, should it be said that the
purpose of the statute must be defeated because the lawmakers did not attempt to provide with a meticulous precision how the Commission should proceed in every contingency that might arise. The dominating purpose of
the statute is to restore to its original state the competition suppressed by the acquisition of the stock, and, just
as we rejected a rigid literalism there in order to effect
that purpose, and upheld an order which was but incidental, though necessary, to the effective exercise of the
power specifically granted, so we should reject it now.
Just as in that case we upheld the Commission's order
directing the surrender of one of the fruits of the wrongful stock ownership-the power to place a competing unit
under the offender's domination-so should we now sus-

ARROW-HART & H. CO. v. COMM'N.
5STONE,

607

J., dissenting.

tain the order commanding relinquishment of another of
the fruits of that ownership-the accomplished merger.
Even if the question were a new one in this Court, no
plausible reason has been advanced for interpreting this
remedial statute as though it were a penal law. The
Clayton Act was designed to prevent abuses growing from
deficiencies due to the generality of the Sherman Act.
It sought to accomplish that end by conferring upon
the Commission the power to strike at specific practices.
In this, as in most schemes for regulation by administrative bodies, there must be a balance between the general
and the particular. When the courts are faced with interpretation of the particular, administration breaks down
and the manifest purpose of the legislature is defeated
unless it is recognized that, surrounding granted powers,
there must be a penumbra which will give scope for practical operation. In carrying such schemes into operation the function of courts is constructive, not destructive,
to make them, wherever reasonably possible, effective
agencies for law enforcement and not to destroy them.
I That the merged corporation is different from the original offender should lead to no different conclusion. It
is but the creature and alter ego of the offender, created
by the offender's exercise of power over the illegally acquired stock 'for the very purpose of perpetuating the
suppression of competition which the Commission from
the start had power to forbid. To declare that an offender, whose cause is pending before the Commission,
can effect through its creatures and agents what it may
not itself do, nullifies the statute.
Some scope may be given to the doctrine of lis pendens.
It is true that the Commission is an administrative body,
and not a court. But it exercises many of the powers
conventionally deemed judicial. It is authorized to bring
offeders before it to determine whether they are violators of the Act and, if so, "to enforce compliance" by

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

commanding that the violation cease. There is as much
reason to believe that Congress did not intend to deny
to the Commission the authority to exercise effectively
the granted power, and thus to preserve its jurisdiction
until its function could be executed, as there would be
were similar powers extended to a court of inferior jurisdiction. This is the more evident when it is remembered
that obedience to the Commission's orders cannot be compelled without first subjecting them to the scrutiny
of a court. Recognition of its authority involves
neither departure from accepted principles nor any risk
of abuse.
These considerations demand our rejection of the contention that an offender against the Clayton Act, properly
brought before the Commission and subject to its order,
can evade its authority and defeat the statute by taking
refuge behind a cleverly erected screen of corporate
dummies.
The

CHIEF JUSTICE,

JUSTICE CARDOZO

MR. JUSTICE

BRANDEIS,

and MR.

concur in this opinion.

MASSEY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

SEVENTH

No. 707.

Argued March 5, 1934.-Decided March 12, 1934.

A conviction for conspiracy to violate the National Prohibition Act
was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals, but mandate was
stayed to allow application to this Court for writ of certiorari.
Petition for the writ was filed within time, soon after the repeal
of the Eighteenth Amendment had been consummated. Held that
the judgment should be reversed and the cause remanded to the
District Court with direction to vacate the sentence and dismiss
the indictment,-on the authority of United States v. Chambers,
ante, p. 217.
66 F. (2d) 660, reversed.

