MOORE v. C. & 0. RY. CO.
193

Syllabus.

the relative merits of systems of accounting. Lucas v.
American Code Co., 280 U.S. 445, 449.
The deductions here claimed, not being authorized specifically either by the Revenue Acts, or by any regulation
applying them, were properly disallowed. So far as the
decision in Virginia-Lincoln Furniture Corp. v. Commissioner, 56 F. (2d) 1028, may be inconsistent with this
opinion, it is disapproved.
Affirmed.

MOORE v. CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF. APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 173.

Argued January 10, 11, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. The jurisdiction of the District Court is to be determined by the
allegations of the complaint. P. 210.
2. The Federal Employers' Liability Act, in providing that the
employee shall not be held guilty of contributory negligence, nor
to have assumed the risk, in any case under it where violation by
the carrier of "any statute enacted for the safety of employees"
contributed to the injury or death, embraces the Federal Safety
Appliance Acts. P. 210.
3. The Federal Employers' Liability Act and Safety Appliance Acts
are in pari materia; and an action under the former in connection
with the latter may be brought in the federal court of a district
in which the carrier is doing business. P. 211.
4. A state statute prescribing the liability of common carriers for
negligence causing injuries to employees while engaged in intrastate
commerce provided that no employee should be held guilty of
contributory negligence, or to have assumed the risk, in any case
where violation by the carrier "of any statute, state or federal,
enacted for the safety of employees" contributed to the injury.
Held:
(1) That the provisions. of the Federal Safety Appliance Acts
for the safety of employees are in effect read into the state law,
P. 212.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

291 U.S.

(2) An action under the state statute against an interstate
railroad for personal injuries suffered by an employee while engaged in intrastate commerce and caused by a violation of the
Federal Safety Appliance Acts, is not an action arising under the
laws of the United States, and, diversity of citizenship being
present, may be brought in the federal court in the district of the
plaintiff's residence. Jud. Code, § 51; 28 U.S.C., § 112. P. 211.
5. The Federal Safety Appliance Acts embrace all locomotives, cars
and similar vehicles used on any railroad which is a highway of
interstate commerce, and the duty to protect employees by the
appliances prescribed exists even where the vehicle and employee
are engaged, at the time of his injury, in intrastate commerce.
P. 213.
6. Questions relating to the scope or construction of the Federal
Safety Appliance Acts arising in actions in state courts for injuries
sustained by employees in intrastate commerce, are federal questions reviewable by this Court. P. 214.
7. Where the Circuit Court of Appeals has erroneously reversed a
judgment upon the ground that jurisdiction was wanting, the case
will be remanded to it for consideration of the other questions
presented. P. 217.
64 F. (2d) 472, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 613, to review the reversal of a
judgment for damages in an action for personal injuries.
Mr. Edward Davidson, with whom Mr. John P. Brain-

hall was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Albert H. Cole for respondent.
The Safety Appliance Acts give to an employee, injured as a result of their violation, a right of action for the
injuries sustained. San Antonio R. Co. v. Wagner, 241
U.S. 475, 484; Texas'& Pac. Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U.S.
33, 39; Central Vermont Ry. Co. v. Perry, 10 F. (2d) 132,
133; Director General v. Ronald, 265 Fed. 128, 147.
The right of action necessarily arises out of those Acts,
and jurisdiction to hear and determine it is conferred
upon the federal district courts by 28 U.S.C., § 41 (Jud.
Code, § 24), which provides that they shall have original

MOORE v. C. & 0. RY. CO.
205

207

Opinion of the Cdurt.

jurisdiction of suits arising under the laws of the United
States.
The second paragraph of complaint, by expressly alleging that the action was brought under the Act of Congress commonly known as the Safety Appliance Acts and
by seeking a recovery on no grounds other than an alleged
violation of those Acts, clearly invoked the jurisdiction
of the federal court on the ground that the action was a
suit of a civil nature arising under a law of the United
States.
Where an action is within the general jurisdiction of
the federal courts, both upon the ground of diversity of
citizenship and because founded on a law of the United
States, it can be brought only in the district of which the
defendant is an inhabitant.
The allegation that the action is under the Employers'
Liability Act of Kentucky, as well as under the Federal
Safety Appliance Acts, does not bear upon the jurisdictional question. In order that federal jurisdiction may
attach to a suit arising under a law of the United States
it is in nowise essential that it shall be based solely on
federal law unaffected by the common or the statutory
law of the State. Union Pacific R. Co. v. Myers, 115
U.S. 1; Osborn v. United States Bank, 9 Wheat. 738;
Nashville v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 247. See also New Orleans,
N. & T. R. Co. v. Mississippi, 102 U.S. 135; Cohens v.
Virginia,6 Wheat. 264; Tennessee v. Davis, 100 U.S. 257.
MR. CHIEF JUSTCE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
'Petitioner brought this action in the District Court of
the United States for the Northern District of Indiana,
Fort Wayne Division, to recover for injuries which he
sustained on November 29, 1930, in the course of his em-*
ployment by respondent, an interstate carrier, in its yard

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

at Russell, Kentucky. In his complaint he set forth two
"paragraphs" or counts, "both being for the same injuries. In the first paragraph, petitioner alleged that at
the time of the injuries he was employed in interstate
commerce and that he brought the action under the Acts
of Congress known as the Federal Employers' Liability
Act 1 and the Safety Appliance Acts,2 and the rules and orders which the Interstate Commerce Commission had promulgated under the latter
In the second paragraph, he
alleged that at the time of the injuries he was employed
in intrastate commerce and he invoked the Safety Appliance Acts enacted by the Congress, and the rules and
orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission thereunder, and the Employers' Liability Act of Kentucky. The
provisions of the laws of Kentucky which were alleged to
govern the rights of the parties at the time and place in
question were set forth.' In each count petitioner stated
that the. injuries were received , while he was engaged as
a switchman in attempting to uncouple certain freight
cars and were due to a defective uncoupling lever.
Objections to the jurisdiction of the District Court as
to each count were raised by plea in abatement. They
were overruled and petitioner had a general verdict. The
judgment, 'entered accordingly, was reversed by the Circuit Court of Appeals upon the ground that the District
Court was without jurisdiction to entertain the case upon
'Act of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, 45 U.S.C. §§ 51 et seq.;
Act of April 5,1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291, 45 U.S.C. § 56.
'Acts of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531, 45 UB.C. §§ 1 et seq.;
April 1, 1896, c. 87, 29 Stat. 85, 45 U.S.C. § 6; March 2, 1903, c. 976,
32 Stat. 943, 45 U.S.C. §§ 8, 9, 10; April 14, 1910, c. 160, 36 Stat. 298,
45 U.S.C. §§ 11 et seq..
'Order of March 13, 1911; Roberts' Federal Liabilities of Carriers,
Vol. 2, pp. 2010, 2016.
'Ky. Acts, 1918, c. 52, §§ 1-3, p. 153; Carroll's Ky. Statutes, §§ 820
b-1, 820 b-2, 820 b--3. I

MOORE v. C. & 0. RY. CO.
205

Opinion of the Colrt.

either count. 64 F. (2d) 472. This Court granted certiorari.
Distinct questions are presented with respect to each
count and they will be considered separately.
First. By the first paragraph, the jurisdiction of the
Federal court was rested upon the sole ground that the
injury had been sustained during petitioner's employment
in interstate commerce and that the cause of action arose
under the pertinent Federal legislation. To support the
jurisdiction of the District Court for the Northern District of Indiana, the complaint alleged that respondent
was engaged in business in that district at the time of
the commencement of the action. Respondent's challenge to the jurisdiction was upon the grounds (1) that at
the time of the injuries petitioner was not employed in
interstate commerce and hence the. action would not lie
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, and (2) that
respondent was a corporation organized under the laws of
Virginia and an inhabitant of the Eastern District of
Virginia, and hence, so far as the action rested upon the
Safety Appliance Acts of Congress, and the rules and orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission, it could not
be brought in a Federal court in any district other than
the Eastern District of Virginia. Jud. Code, § 51; 28
U.S.C. § 112.
Petitioner's demurrer to the plea in abatement as to the
first cause of action was sustained by the trial court.
That court pointed out that the plea did not deny that
respondent was doing business within the Northern District of Indiana and that the pleading, in substance, went
to the merits. The Circuit Court of. Appeals took a different view, holding that so far as petitioner relied upon
a violation of the Safety Appliance Acts, the action must
be brought in the district of respondent's residence. In
reversing the judgment,.the Circuit Court of Appeals re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

manded the cause with instructions to grant permission
to petitioner to amend his first paragraph to conform
exclusively to the theory of a violation of the Federal
Employers' Liability Act.
This ruling of the appellate court cannot be sustained.
The jurisdiction of the District Court is to be determined
by the allegations of the complaint. Mosher v. Phoenix,
287 U.S. 29, 30; Levering & GarriguesCo. v. Morrin, 289
U.S. 103, 105. These allegations clearly set forth, in the
first paragraph, a cause of action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act. Every essential ingredient of such
a cause of action was appropriately alleged. The Federal Employers' Liability Act expressly recognized that
in an action brought under its provisions the question of
a violation of the Safety Appliance Acts might be presented and determined. This is the unmistakable effect
of the provisions that, in such an action, the employee
shall not be held "to have been guilty of contributory
negligence," or "to have assumed the risks of his employment" in any case "where the violation by such common carrier of any statute enacted for the safety of
employees contributed to the injury or death of such employee." Act of April 22, 1908, §§ 3, 4, 45 U.S.C. §§ 53,
54. By the phrase "any statute enacted for the safety
of employees" the Congress evidently intended to embrace its Safety Appliance Acts. Seaboard Air Line Ry.
v. Horton,233 U.S. 492, 503. This Court has said that the
statutes are in pan materia and that "where the Employers' Liability Act refers to' any defect or insufficiency,
due to its negligence, in its cars, engines, appliances,' etc.,
it clearly is the legislative intent to treat a violation of the
Safety Appliance Act as 'negligence '-what is sometimes
called negligence per se." San Antonio & Aransas Pass
Ry. Co. v. Wagner, 241 U.S. 476, 484. Where an employee of an interstate carrier sustains injuries while employed in the interstate commerce of the carrier, his action

MOORE v. C. & 0. RY. CO.
205

Opinion of the Court.

may thus be brought under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act in connection with the Safety Appliance
Acts.'
Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act an action
may be brought " in a District Court of the United States,
in the district of the residence of the defendant, or in
which the cause of action arose, or in which the defendant
shall be doing business at the time of commencing such
action." 45 U.S.C. § 56. It follows that, upon the allega-.
tions of the complaint, the action on the claim set forth
in the first paragraph was properly brought in the
District Court for the Northern District of Indiana
where respondent was doing business when the action
was begun.
Second. In the second paragraph of the complaint,
which treated the injuries as received in intrastate commerce, diversity of citizenship was alleged; that petitioner was a citizen of Indiana, and a resident of the city
of Fort Wayne in that State, and that respondent was
a citizen of Virginia doing business in Indiana. The plea
in abatement, admitting respondent's citizenship in Virginia, denied that petitioner was a resident of Fort Wayne
or of the Northern District of Indiana, or was a citizen
of that State, and alleged that as the cause of action
set forth in the second paragraph arose under the Federal
Safety Appliance Acts, the action could not be brought
'See Southcrn Ry. Co. v. Crockett, 234 U.S. 725, 727; St. Louis &
San Francisco R. Co. v. Conarty, 238 U.S. 243, 248; Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. Otos, 239 U.S. 349, 350; San Antonio & Aransas Pass Ry.
Co. v. Wagner, 241 U.S. 476, 484; Spokane & I. E. R. Co. v. Campbell, 241 U.S. 497, 498; Atlantic City R. Co. v. Parker, 242 U.S. 56,
58; St. Joseph & G. I. Ry. Co. v. Moore, 243 U.S. 311, 312; Minneapolis & St. Louis R. Co. v. Gotschall, 244 U.S. 66; Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. Donaldson, 246 U.S. 121, 124; Davis v. Wolfe, 263 U.S.
239, 240; Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Groeger, 266 U.S. 521, 528;
Chicago Great Western R. Co. v. Schendel, 267 U.S. 287, 289; Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Goneau, 269 U.S. 406, 407.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

in any district other than the Eastern District of Virginia. The District Court took evidence on the issue
of fact, found that the petitioner was a citizen of Indiana
and a resident of Fort Wayne, and overruled the plea.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the District Court
of the Northern District of Indiana was without jurisdiction, in the view that the second count attempted to set
forth a cause of action "under the Federal Safety Appliance Act as well as under the statutes of Kentucky"
and hence that jurisdiction did not rest solely on diversity
of citizenship. Jud. Code, § 51, 28 U.S.C. § 112. In
remanding the cause, the Circuit Court of Appeals directed that petitioner be allowed to amend the second
paragraph of his complaint so as to conform exclusively
to the theory of a violation of the Kentucky statute.
While invoking, in the second count, the Safety Appliance Acts, petitioner fully set forth and relied upon the
laws of the State of Kentucky where the cause of action
arose. In relation to injuries received in that State in
intrastate commerce, aside from the particular bearing of
the Federal Safety Appliance Acts, the liability of respondent was determined by the laws of Kentucky.
Slater v. Mexican National R. Co., 194 U.S. 120, 126;
Cuba R. Co. v. Crosby, 222 U.S. 473, 478; Young v. Masci,
289 U.S. 253, .258; Ormsby v. Chase, 290 U.S. 387. The
statute of Kentucky, in prescribing the liability of common carriers for negligence causing injuries to employees
while engaged in intrastate commerce, reproduced in substance, and with almost literal exactness, the corresponding provisions of the Federal Employers' Liability Act as
to injuries received in interstate commerce. Ky. Acts,
1918, c. 52, §§ 1-3, p. 153; Carroll's Ky. Statutes, 1930,
§§ 820 b-i, 820 b-2, 820 b-3. The Kentucky Act provided
that no employee should be held " to have been guilty of
contributory negligence " or " to have assumed the risk
of his employment" in any case " where the violation by

MOORE v. C. & 0. RY. CO.
205

213

Opinion of the Court.

such common carrier of any statute, state or federal, enacted for the safety of employees contributed to the injury
or death of such employee." Id. The Kentucky legislature read into its statute the provisions of statutes both
state and federal which were enacted for the safety of
employees, and the Federal Safety Appliance Acts were
manifestly embraced in this description. Louisville &
Nashville R. Co. v. Layton, 243 U.S. 617, 619. Thus, the
second count of the complaint, in invoking the Federal
Safety Appliance Acts, while declaring on the Kentucky
Employers' Liability Act, cannot be regarded as setting
up a claim which lay outside the purview of the state
statute. As in the analogous case under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, a violation of Ithe acts for the safety
of employees was to constitute negligence per se in applying the state statute and was to furnish the ground for
precluding the defense of contributory negligence as well
as that of assumption of risk.
The Circuit Court of Appeals took the view that if it
were assumed that the second count was based exclusively
upon the Kentucky statute, that statute and the federal
requirements could not be considered as being in pari
materia because the latter applied only to interstate commerce, and that, if the petitioner were permitted to establish the negligence required by the state statute by
showing the violation of the federal requirements the.
court would thereby be placed" in the anomalous position
of extending the benefits of the Safety Appliance Act to
intrastate commerce."
This is an erroneous view. The original Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, 27 Stat. 531, did not embrace
all cars on the lines of interstate carriers but only those
engaged in interstate commerce. Brinkmeier v. Missouri
Pacific Ry. Co., 224 U.S. 268. By the amending Act of
March 2. 1903, 32 Stat. 943, the scope of the statute was
enlarged so as to it'clude all cars " used on aiiy railroad

214

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion. of the Court.

291 U.S.

engaged in interstate commerce." The statute as amended
was intended to embrace all locomotives, cars, and similar
vehicles used on any railroad which is a highway of interstate commerce. Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222
U.S. 20. With respect to such vehicles, the duty to protect employeesg by the prescribed safety appliances exists
even though the vehicles and the employee injured
through the failure to provide such protection are at the
time engaged in intrastate commerce. Texas & PacificRy.
Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U.S. 33; Louisville & Nashville R. Co.
v. Layton, supra. The Federal Act in its application to
such a case is thus in pan materiawith the statute of Kentucky which prescribes the liability of carriers for injuries
to employees while employed in intrastate commerce and
which, in effect, reads into the provisions of the statute
the requirements of the Federal Act for the safety of
employees. There apears to be no anomaly in enforcing
the state law with this defined content.
The Federal Safety Appliance Acts prescribed duties,
and injured employees are entitled to recover for injuries
sustained through the breach of these duties. Jonson v.
Southern Pacific Co., 196 U.S. 1; St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry.
Co. v. Taylor, 210 U.S. 281; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Rigsby, supra. Questions arising in actions in state courts
to recover for injuries sustained by employees in intrastate commerce and relating to the scope or construction
of the Federal Safety Appliance Acts are, of course, federal questions which may appropriately be' reviewed in
this Court. St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, supra;
Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Layton, supra. But it
does not follow that a suit brought under the state statute which defines liability to employees who are injured
while engaged in intrastate commerce, and brings within
the purview of the statute a breach of the duty imposed
by the federal statute, should be regarded as a suit arising
under the laws of the United States and cognizable in the

MOORE v. C. & 0. RY. CO.
205

Opinion of the Court.

federal court in the absence of diversity of citizenship.
The Federal Safety Appliance Acts, while prescribing absolute duties, and thus creating correlative rights in favor
of injured employees, did not attempt to lay down rules
governing actions for enforcing these rights. The original
Act of 1893 made no provision for suits, except for penalties. That Act did impliedly recognize the employee's
right of action by providing in § 8 that he should
not be deemed to have assumed the risk of injury occasioned by the breach of duty. But the Act made no
provision as to the place of suit or the time within which
it should be brought, or as to the right to recover, or as
to those who should be the beneficiaries of recovery, in
case of the death of the employee. While dealing with
assumption of risk, the statute did not affect the defense
of contributory negligence and hence that defense was still
available according to the applicable state law. Schlemmer v. Buffalo, R. & P. Ry. Co., 220 U.S. 590; Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Popplar, 237 U.S. 369,
371, 372. In these respects the amended Act of 1903 made
no. change, notwithstanding the enlargement of the scope
of the statutory requirements. The Act of 1910, by a proviso in § 4 relating to penalties (36 Stat. 299), provided
that nothing in that section should" be construed to relieve such carrier from liability in any remedial action
for the death or injury of any railroad employee" caused
by the use of the prohibited equipment.
The Safety Appliance Acts having prescribed the duty
in this fashion, the right to recover damages sustained
by the injured employee through the breach of duty
sprang from the principle of the common law (Texas &
Pacific R. Co. v. Rigsby, supra, at pp. 39, 400) and was
left to be enforced accordingly, or, in case of the death of
'In Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U.S. 33, the action was
brought in the state court and was removed to the federal court upon
the ground that the defendant was a federal corporation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

the injured employee, according to the applicable statute.'
St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, supra, at p. 285;
Minneapolis,St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Popplar,supra.
When the Federal Employers' Liability Act was enacted,
it drew to itself the right of action for injuries or death
of the employees within its purview who were engaged in
interstate commerce, including those cases in which injuries were due to a violation of the Safety Appliance
Acts. Such an action must be brought as prescribed in
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, and if brought in
the state court, it cannot be removed to the federal court,
although violation of the Safety Appliance Acts is involved. See St. Joseph & G. I. Ry. Co. v. Moore, 243
U.S. 311. With respect to injuries sustained in intrastate
commerce, nothing in the Safety Appliance Acts precluded the State from incorporating in its legislation applicable to local transportation the paramount duty which
the Safety Appliance Acts imposed as to the equipment of
cars used on interstate railroads. As this Court said in
Minneapolis, St. P. & S. S. M. Ry. Co. v. Popplar,supra,
as to an action for injuries sustained in intrastate commerce: "The action fell within the familiar category of
cases involving the duty of a master to his servant. This
duty is defined by the common law, except as it may be
modified by legislation. The federal statute, in the present case, touched the duty of the master at a single point
and, save as provided in the statute, the right of the
'In St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U.S. 281, 285, the
Court said: "The accident by which the plaintiff's intestate lost his
life occurred in the Indian Territory, where, contrary to the doctrine
of the common law, a right of action for death exists. The cause of
action arose under the laws of the Territory, and was enforced in the
courts of Arkansas." The question whether the action was triable in
those courts was held not to present a federal question, but the question as to the interpretation of the Safety Appliance Act of 1893 did

present the federal question which was reviewed by this Court.

UNITED STATES v. CHAMBERS.
205

Syllabus.

plaintiff to recover was left to be determined by the law
of the State."
We are of the opinion that the second paragraph of the
complaint set forth a cause of action under the Kentucky
statute and, as to this cause of action, the suit is not to
be regarded as one arising under the laws of the United
States. In view of the diversity of citizenship and the
residence of petitioner, the District Court of the Northern District of Indiana had jurisdiction.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals did not consider any
questions save those relating to the jurisdiction of the
District Court, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals will be reversed and the cause remanded to that
court with directions to consider such other questions as
may be presented by the appeal.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. CHAMBERS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No,. 659.

Argued January 16, 17, 1934.-Decided February 5i 1934.

1. The Court takes judicial notice of the fact that the ratification
of the Twenty-first Amendment of the Constitution, which repealed
the Eighteenth Amendment, was consummated on December 5.
1933. P. 222.
2. Upon the ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment, the Eighteenth Amendment became inoperative, and neither the Congress
nor the courts could give it continued validity. P. 222.
3. The National Prohibition Act, to the extent that its provisions
rested upon the grant of authority to Congress by the Eighteenth
Amendment, immediately fell with the withdrawal by the people
of the essential constitutional support. P. 222.
4. Prosecutions for violations of the National Prohibition Act in a
State, pending when the Eighteenth Amendment was repealed,
can not be continued. P. 222.

