U. S. v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
Counsel for Parties.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL
RAILROAD CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF DELAWARE.

No. 422. Argued February 8, 9, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.
1. The provision of § 3 (e) of the Inland Waterways Corporation
Act, as amended, empowering the Interstate Commerce Commission- upon granting a certificate of public convenience and necessity
to a prospective water carrier, to order all connecting common
carriers to join with such water carrier in through routes and joint
rates, and in such' order to fix minimum differentials between allrail rates and joint rates in connection with the water service, does
not deprive a rail carrier affected of due process, since the rates so
prescribed are tentative and the railway, upon complaint, may
have a full hearing concerning them and a plenary determination
by the Commission before they go into effect. P. 460.
2. A suit to enjoin enforcement of the Commission's order before
the administrative process has been completed, is premature.
P. 463.
3. A carrier which has not first availed itself of the remedy before
the Commission is not in a position to seek equitable relief against
rates fixed by the, Commission's order. P. 463.
4. The provision of the statute which puts the burden of proof upon
carriers complaining of the rates fixed by the Commission's ex parte
order is not inconsistent with the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment. P. 464.
3 F.Supp. 1005, reversed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court, of three

judges, setting aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, in a suit brought by several railroad carriers
against the United States and the Commission.
Assistant Solicitor General MacLean, with whom
Solicitor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney General
Stephens, and Messrs. Elmer B. Collins, Ashley Sellers,
Daniel W. Knowlton, and Harry L. Underwood were on
the brief, for the United States and Interstate Commerce
Commission, appellants.

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Mr. A. K. Shipe for American Barge Line Co. et al.,
appellants.
Mr. Clark C. Wren filed a brief on behalf of the Inland
Waterways Corp., appellant.
Messrs. R. S. Outlaw and H. H. Larimore, with whom
Messrs. Elmer A. Smith, A. B. Enoch, M. G. Roberts,
M. Carter Hall, A. H. Kiskaddon, James Stillwell, Herbert S. Harr and M. B. Pierce, were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit brought by the Illinois Central Railroad
Company and other railroad cariiers, under the Urgent
Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913, U.S.C., Title 28, § 47,
as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925, U.S.C., Title
28, § 345, to set aside, annul and enjoin the enforcement of an amended order of the commission, made under
§ 3 (e) of the Inland Waterways Corporation Act of June
3, 1924, c. 243, 43 Stat. 360, as amended, c. 891, § 2, 45
Stat. 978. That section provides that any person, etc.,
about to engage in conducting .a common carrier service
.upon certain designated waters may, upon application to
the commission, obtain a certificate of public convenience
and necessity in,accordance with § 1 of the Interstate
Commerce Act; and that the commission " shall thereupon, by order, direct all connecting common carriers and
their connections to join with such water carrier in
through routes and joint rates," ,and shall, in such order,
"fix reasonable minimum differentials between all rail
rates and joint rates in connection with said water
service," etc. The commissi6n is further.authorized to require the interested comion carriers to enter into negotiations for the purpose of establishing equitable divisions

U. S. v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
457

459

1 Opinion of the Cofirt.

of these joint differential rates, and if they are unable to
agree within a time specified in the act, the commission
shall determine and establish reasonable divisions to become effective coincident with the effective date of the
joint rates. 'The act further authorizes the commission,
upon complaint, at once, and if it so orders, without answer or other formal pleading, but upon reasonable notice,
to enter upon a hearing concerning the reasonableness or
lawfulness of any through route or joint rate filed pursuant to such order of the commission, etc., and after full
hearings to "make such order with reference to any such
matters as it may find to be proper and in the public interest." The burden of proof in such case is put upon the
carrier or carriers making the complaint, and preference
is to be given to the hearing and decision of the questions
involved' over all other questions pending before it,
except where like preference is given by law; and the
commission is directed to render a decision as speedily
as possible.
Upon application under this section, the commission,
after a hearing confined to that application, granted to the
American Barge Line Company, a certificate of public convenience and necessity, Application of American Barge
Line Co., 182 I.C.C. 521; and thereupon, without further
hearing, entered an order directing the interested carriers
to establish through barge-rail routes and rates. Subsequently, in August or September, 1932, because of competition from unregulated truck and water carriers, the
railroad carriers published all-rail carload rates on cotton
lower than those previously in effect. These rates were
further reduced in November, 1932. But the railroad
carriers declined to join in joint water and rail rates; and,
thereupon, the Barge Line sought from the commission
supplemental ordcers requiring the establislment of rail-.
barge-rail rates between designated points. The rail

460

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

carriers opposed the application and requested a hearing
before action by the commission. This hearing the commission refused, and entered an order requiring the rail
carriers to join with the Barge Line in publishing specified
rail-barge-rail rates on cotton in carloads. The order,-particulars of which need not be stated, was issued December
10, 1932, to become effective on January 25, 1933, which
time was afterwards extended to June 1, 1933, a period
altogether of nearly six months from the date of issue.
Appellees, on February 2, 1933, before 'the order had
become effective, brought this suit and sought relief from
the order, upon the grounds (1) that it was made without according them a full and fair hearing, and that § 3
(e) of the statute, in so far as it authorizes the commission to make and enforce the order without such hearing,
contravenes the due process of law clause of the Fifth
Amendment; and (2) that it also constitutes a delegation
to the commission of legislative power. The court below
held with appellees upon the first ground, and entered a
decree enjoining, setting aside, annulling and suspending
the order of the commission. 3 F.Supp. 1005.
1. Assuming that the order in question, if enforced,
would have the effect of depriving appellees of property
or of property rights, we first inquire whether the statute,
as interpreted and applied by the commission, does have
the effect of denying appellants a full and fair hearing
in respect of the matter prior to the enforcement of the
order, and, consequently, fails to satisfy the constitutional
requirement of due process of law. The provision of the
statute that a certificate of public convenience and necessity to conduct a common carrier service upon the waters
designated may be obtained upon application to the commission and thereupon the commission shall make the
order described in the statute, undoubtedly empowers the
commission to make the order, in the first instance, without a hearing. The commission, however, seems never to

U. S. v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
457

461

Opinion of the Cohrt.

have held that it is not obliged upon complaint to grant
a full and fair hearing after the making of the order but
before putting it into effect. And both in the briefs filed
on behalf of appellants, including the United States and
the commission, and in the argument at the bar, the position is definitely taken that the order is tentative and
the rates prescribed thereby cannot be enforced without
a hearing if properly sought by appellees. The brief for
the United States and the commission quotes from the
concurring opinion of Commissioner Brainerd in Ex parte
94, Procedure Under Barge Line Act, 148 I.C.C. 129, 141,
to this effect and adopts it as the view of the government
and the commission. Upon the oral argument, in response to a direct question from the bench, this view was
reiterated by the Assistant Solicitor General, his statement
in effect being that the commission is bound to grant the
hearing upon complaint being made by the railway carriers, and pending such hearing to postpone the effective
date of the order upon a showing which is not frivolous.
The conclusion of Commissioner Brainerd, thus adopted,
is that if the comknission issue a certificate of public convenience and necessity and enter an order without hearing,
directing the establishment of through routes and joint
rates and fixing reasonable minimum differentials, and
later, before said rates become effective, a complaint be
filed by an interested carrier, "it would then, be our duty
to hear said complaint and decide said matter before said
rates become effective; that in the event such a hearing
is not had and the matter disposed of before the effective
date of said rates, it would be our. further duty temporarily to suspend them until said matter is decided; . . ."
And he declared that this procedure - would be necessary to comply with the requirements of due process
of law.
This is an admissible construction of the statutory provisions. That the order made by the commission upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

granting the certificate of public convenience and necessity is not final and conclusive is clear, since, by the
affirmative provisions of the act, the railway carriers may
file the through routes and joint rates pursuant to the
preliminary order, and immediately, upon complaint, secure a full hearing from, and a plenary determination by,
the commission. Pending that hearing, the commission
is authorized to suspend the operation of the preliminary
order for as long as seven months beyond the time when
it would otherwise go into effect, Interstate Commerce
Act, U.S.C., Title 49, § 15 (7); and it is made clear by
what has already been said that upon application and
proper showing the commission would consider itself
bound to take such action.
The provisions of § 3 (e) with which we are dealing
were enacted by Congress in an avowed effort to bring
about coiperation on the part of the rail carriers with the
water carriers. The report of the House Committee on
the proposed legislation (H.Rept. 1537, 70th Cong., 1st
Sess., pp. 5-6) recites the necessity of overcoming opposition on the part of the rail carriers in respect of
through routes, joint rates, etc., without interminable delay and the heavy expense necessary to carry on proceedings before the Interstate Commerce Commission, a a
necessary prerequisite to the rearization of privately
owned transportation service on the inland waterways of
the country. Transportation Act, 1920, (U.S.C., Title
49, § 142) declares the definite policy of Congress to be
"to promote, encourage, and develop water transportation, service, and facilities in connection with the commerce of the United States." Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. v.
United States, 274 U.S. 29, 36. In the light of the situation disclbsed by this report and of the policy declared by
the act just named, Congress evidently prescribed the
course of procedure which § 3 (e) requires.

U. S. v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
457

Opinion of the Court.

Without attempting to lay down any general rule, but
confining ourselves to the statute and case in hand, we
accordingly hold that it was not essential, under the due
process of law clause, that a hearing should be accorded
in advance of the initiating order. It is enough that opportunity was given for a full and fair hearing before the
order became operative. Since no routes or rates were in
existence when the order was made, that order constituted
the preliminary step toward their creation, equivalent, in
essence, to an ex parte order on the carriers to show cause
why the designated routes and rates should not be established. The effect of that order was simply to put upon
the rail carriers the necessity, within a comparatively brief
period, of either availing themselves of the right to file
the routes and rates and appear and be heard in opposition thereto (the operation of the order in the meantime being held in abeyance), or of suffering them to go
into effect by default. The statute gives preference to the
hearing and decision of the questions involved, and directs the commission to render a decision as speedily as
possible. Congress evidently believed that the procedure
thus prescribed would bring about an earlier settlement
of the matter than otherwise would be the case. The
various steps to be taken constitute parts of the administrative process which must be completed before the extraordinary powers of a court of equity may be invoked.
Porter v. Investors Syndicate, 286 U.S. 461, 470-471.
The constitutional question raised by appellees, therefore, vanishes from the case, because the commission concedes and stands ready to grant every administrative procedural right that appellees are lawfully entitled to claim.
If the preliminary order be erroneous in any particular,
it is susceptible of correction by the commission upon the
hearing thus provided for. It will be time enough for
appellees to seek the aid of a court of equity when they

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
STONE,

J., concurring.

291 U.S.

shall have fully availed themselves of this administrative
remedy, and the commission shall have taken adverse
action. Until then they are in no situation to invoke
judicial action.
The provision of the statute which puts the burden of
proof upon the carriers is not inconsistent with the due
process clause of the Constitution. New England Divisions Case, 261 U.S. 1184, 199; Minneapolis & S. L. R. Co.
v. Minnesota, 193 U.S. 53, 63.
2. The precise ground upon which appellees place their
contention that the statute is invalid as constituting a
delegation of legislative power is not entirely clear. Undoubtedly, the statute furnishes a sufficient primary
standard to govern the action of the commission; and this
appellees do not dispute. Their contention, as set forth
in their brief, is that the only rule of decision laid down
in § 3 (e) is that the through routes, rates and differentials to be established must be reasonable and lawful, and
"such reasonableness and lawfulness can be determined
only by a full and fair hearing, and the establishment of
rates and routes and differentials without such hearing
constitutes necessarily an exercise by the Commission of
pure legislative power." Since the government and the
commission concede that a full and fair hearing must be
accorded before the order becomes effective, this objection
to the statute, as a distinct ground, necessarily falls.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE,

concurring.

I concur in the result.
The statute, in words, authorizes the Commission to
grant a hearing as to the reasonableness and lawfulness of
the proposed rates and divisions, if complaint is filed,
and the Commission has plenary power, upon consideration of the complaint, to postpone the effective date of

U. S. v, ILLINOIS CENTRAL R. CO.
457

STONE, J.,

concurring.

the order and to suspend the rates after the order becomes
effective. §§ 15 (7), 16 (6), Interstate Commerce Act.
As respondents have failed to invoke these administrative remedies by filing a complaint with the Commission,
it seems plain that their rights, constitutional or otherwise, have not been infringed, and I see no occasion for
speculation as to what the statutory duty of the Commission may be in the event a complaint is filed, or to
resort to concessions of counsel in brief and argument to
define that duty, or to suggest that the statute falls short
of constitutional requirements if it fails to command the
administrative action which it permits. The mere power,
unexercised, to withhold constitutional right is not a denial of it. It is enough that respondents have filed no
complaint with the Commission designed to secure a hearing. Before administrative action which respondents may
invoke, but have not, it cannot be said that there is any
infringement of their constitutional rights to a hearing
or to protection from the rates pending a hearing. Compare Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Seattle, ante,
p. 300; Porter v. Investors Syndicate, 286 U.S. 461,
470, 471.
Further, there is no intimation in the record that upon
resort to the administrative remedies which the statute
permits any relief to which respondents are justly and
equitably entitled will be withheld. And there is no contention that the proposed rates will not yield a fair return or that they otherwise infringe constitutional rights.
At most it appears that the interest sought to be protected is a prospective share in future traffic which it is
feared may be diverted to the Barge Line, an interest to
which the Constitution plainly affords no protection. Edward Hines Trustees v. United States, 263 U.S. 143, 148;
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 279 U.S.
768, 780; Sprunt & Son v. United..States8 '281 U.S. 249,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellant.

291 U.S.

Thus, regardless of what the statute commands, there is
no such showing of threatened denial of a hearing or of
injury to a property right as would warrant resort to the
equity powers of a federal court. Vandalia R. Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 242 U.S. 255; United States v. Los
Angeles & St. L. R. Co., 273 U.S. 299, 314; White v. Johnson, 282 U.S. 367, 373; Porter v. Investors Syndicate,
supra.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS,
JUSTICE CARDozo eoncur in this opinion.

and MR.

TRINITYFARM CONSTRUCTION CO. v. GROSJEAN, SUPERVISOR OF PUBLIC ACCOUNTS OF
LOUISIANA.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR 'cr, PASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
Argued February 7, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

No. 355.

Petitioner entered into a contra-Vtith the Federal Government for
the construction of levees, in aid of navigation of the Mississippi
River, in the performance of which gasoline was used to supply
power for machinery. Held that a state excise tax on the gasoline
so used was not invalid, as a tax on a means or instrumentality of
the Federal Government, its effect, if any, upon that Government
being consequential and remote. P. 472..
3 F.Supp. 785, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a decree of the District Court of three

judges, which dismissed a bill to enjoin enforcement of
state taxes.

Mr. D. K. Woodward, Jr., with whom Messrs. Victor A.
Sachse and H. Payne Breazeale were on the brief, for
appellant.
The contracts are governmental means or instrumentalities. Jillespie v. Oklahoma,, 257 U.S. 501; Indian

