300

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Counsel for Parties.

291 U.S.

joined whenever necessary or appropriate for the protection of interstate commerce against any restraint denounced by the Act. Bedford Co. v. Stone Cutters Assn.,

ubi supra. Gompers v. Bucks Stove & Range Co., 221
U.S. 418, 438. In this case the evidence fully sustains the
decree.
Affirmed.
PACIFIC TELEPHONE

& TELEGRAPH

SEATTLE

CO. v.

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 364.

Argued January 15, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. A city ordinance imposing a license tax on a telephone company
measured on the gross income from its business in the city, and
providing penalties for delay in payment, can not be held violative
of due process upon the ground of being too vague and indefinite

to enable the taxpayer to compute the amount of its tax, where
the ordinance does not purport to give the final definition of the
taxpayer's obligation but leaves that to be done by an administrative official through regulations and forms for tax returns, which
are not shown 'to have been prepared, and where the duty to make
return and pay any part of the tax can not arise under the ordinance until such forms are available. P. 303.
2. The Fourteenth Amendment does not require that legal duties
shall be defined by any particular agency of the state government.
P. 303.
3, The demands of due process are satisfied if reasonably clear definition is afforded in time to give the 'taxpayer an opportunity to
-comply. P. 304.
172 Wash. 649; 21 P. (2d) 721, affirmed.
APPEAL from a judgment affirming the dismissal of a

suit to restrain the collection of a tax.
Mr. Otto B. Rupp, with whom Mr. Alfred Sutro was on
the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Walter L. Baumgartner,with whom Mr. A. C. Van
Soelen was on the brief, for appellees.

PACIFIC TEL. CO. v. SEATTLE.
300

301

Opinion of. the Court.

MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is an appeal under § 237 of the Judicial Code from
a judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Washington, 172 Wash. 649; 21 P. (2d).721, sustaining a state
license or excise tax assailed by appellant upon numerous state and federal grounds. The only one urged here
is that the statutory measure of the tax as applied to appellant is so vague and indefinite as to infringe the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
An ordinance of the Seattle city council, of May 23, 1932,
imposes annual license taxes on the privilege of carrying
on various classes of business. One such is the telephone
business upon which the tax is 4% of the "gross income"
of the business "in the city" during the preceding fiscal
year. The definition of gross income by § 2 is printed in
the margin.' By § 10, the taxpayer is required. annually
to make application to the city comptreiler for an "occupation license" for the ensuing year "upon blanks or
forms to be prepared by him requiring such information
as may be necessary to enable him to arrive at the lawful
amount of the fee or tax." By § 20 the comptroller is
required to make rules and regulations having the force
of law for carrying the ordinance into effect. Payment
of the full tax or a monthly or quarterly installment of
it is required on filing the return.
'Section 2. Definitions: ...
"Gross Income: The value proceeding or accruing from the salc
of tangible property or service, and receipts (including all sums
earned or charged, whether received or not) by reason of the investment of capital in the business engaged in, including rentals, royalties,
fees or other emolum~ents, however designated (excluding receipts or
proceeds from the use or sale of- real property or any interest therein,
and proceeds from the sale of notes, bonds, mortgages, or other evidences of indebtedness or stocks and the like) and without any deduction on account of the cost of the property sold, the~cost of materials
used, labor, costs, interest or discount paid, or any expense whatsoever, and without any deduction on account of losses."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

The cause was heard and decided on demurrer to appellant's bill of complaint asking an injunction to restrain
the collection of the tax. The bill was filed shortly after
the enactment of the ordinance. It alleges that the appellant, a California corporation, derives its receipts and
earnings from the conduct of a telephone business, both
interstate and intrastate, carried on within and without
the City of Seattle, by the use of its telephone exchanges,
wires, poles, conduits and other property located in
Seattle and also outside of Seattle, both within and without the state. It charges that the ordinance is vague and
indefinite, in that it fixes no method of computation
whereby appellant, with reasonable certainty, can segregate its interstate business or so much of its intrastate
business as is conducted within the City of Seattle, and
that the definition of gross income set out in § 2 is so
vague and uncertain as to make it impossible for appellant to compute with reasonable certainty the amount of
the tax.
The bill of complaint does not show whether appellant
had applied for its occupation license or had received from
the comptroller the prescribed form of return specifying
the information which would be required by him for the
computation of the tax or whether the comptroller had
prepared such a form at the time when the bill was filed.
It fails to show whether the comptroller had promulgated rules or regulations for carrying the ordinance into
effect or whether appellant had requested of him any ruling, interpreting the ordinance, which would aid in preparing the return required for the computation of the tax.
On the argument before us appellant admitted that the
present suit was brought without waiting for the preparation of forms and regulations and that it had made no
effort to secure an administrative interpretation of the
ordinance.

PACIFIC TEL. CO. v. SEATTLE.
300

303

Opinion of the Couht.

The state court, in disposing of the attack upon the uncertainty of the statute, contented itself with saying
that "gross income" is a proper basis for determining
the amount of a tax; that the objections raised by the
appellant are "more fanciful than real "; and that
"in practical application under present day systems of
accounting appellant will have no serious difficulty in
ascertaining the amount of the tax it is required to pay."
Despite this conclusion of the state court that the taxing act can be given a practical construction we are
asked to say that the statute is unconstitutional because
of its vagueness. It may be conceded that the definition
by the ordinance of taxable "gross income" is not free
from ambiguities or difficulties of construction. But in
the present posture of the case we are called upon neither
to resolve them nor to say whether they can be resolved.
The ordinance allows wide latitude for administrative
construction, both by the provision which requires the
comptroller to make interpretative rules and regulations,
and that which commands him to prepare the form for
the return on the basis of which the tax is to be computed.
Until the form is prepared the most that can be required
of taxpayers is that they apply for the license and for
the form on which to make their tax returns. Without
the return there can be no tax and no penalty can be imposed for its nonpayment. Thus the ordinance does not
purport finally to define the duty of taxpayers. Instead
it directs that an administrative officer shall mark the
scope of the obligation, and only then does the state
compel obedience to its mandate.
In this we see no invasion of constitutional immunity.
Compare In re Kollock, 165 U.S. 526; St. Louis, I. M. & S.
Ry. v. Taylor, 210 U.S. 281; Interstate Commerce
Comm'n v. Goodrich Transit Co., 224 U.S. 194. The
Fourteenth Amendment does not require that legal duties

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

shall be defined by any particular agency of the state
government. Dreyer v. Illinois, 187 U.S. 71, 83; Soliah
v. Heskin, 222 U.S. 522, 524; Keller v. Potomac Electric
Power Co., 261 U.S. 428, 443; O'Donoghue v. United
States, 289 U.S. 516, 545; cf. Pacific States Telephone &
Telegraph Co. v. Oregon, 223 U.S. 118. The demands of
due process are satisfied if reasonably clear definition is
afforded in time to give the taxpayer an opportunity to
comply. Connally v. Gen~eral Construction Co., 269 U.S.
385) 391. Before the duties of the administrative officer
are performed we cannot say that the ordinance falls
short of that requirement. At this stage appellant can
show no more than apprehension that the definition which
the administrative officer will lay down may be deficient.
The Constitution can not allay that fear. Compare
Edelman v. Boeing Air Transport, 289 U.S. 249, 253.
The decision of the state court must be affirmed, not
because the appellant has failed to exhaust its administrative remedies, which would concern us only if the suit
had been brought in a federal court of equity, but because
without administrative action, which has not occurred,
there can be no infringement of the immunity invoked.
Affirnied.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. R. F. KEPPEL
& BRO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 194.

FOR THE

Argued January 11, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

Federal Trade Commission, proceeding under § 5 of the Act,
ordered respondent, one of numerous candy manufacturers similarly engaged, to desist from selling and distributing in interstate
commerce candy in a certain type of package, in assortments, so
arranged and offered for sale as to avail of the element of chance

1. The

as an inducement to the retail purchaser. Each package contained

