OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.6.

because of a schedule of rates which on application may
be appropriately modified.
The judgment of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania. is
Affirmed.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA v.
CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 347. Argued January 12, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.
A State is wnout power to levy a license tax in repect of the selling
and delivery of goods on a military reservation included within thc
exterior limits of the State but over which the full legislative authority has been ceded to the United States by an Act of the State
Legislature. P. 244.
218 Cal. 123; 22 P. (2d) 2, reversed.

from the reversal of a judgment in favor of the
Oil Company in an action brought by the State to collect
a a excise tax together with a penalty. The judgment of
7eversal directed the trial court to enter judgment for the
tate as prayed.
APPEAL

Mr. Vincent K. Butler, Jr., with whom Messrs. Oscar
Sutro and Felix T. Smith were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General of California, and Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE, MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By Ch. 267, Statutes 1923, as amended (Chs. 716 and
795, Statutes 1927), the State of California undertook to
lay a license tax upon every distributor for each gallon
of motor vehicle fuel "sold and delivered by him in this
State" with certain exceptions not here important.

STANDARD OIL CO. v. CALIFORNIA.
242

243

Opinion of the Court.

At its own expense and risk, appellant, a Delaware
corporation, qualified t-o do business in California, sold
and delivered to the Post Exchange, within the Presidio
of San Francisco, 420 gallons of gasoline. It carried this'
to the Exchange's place of business in barrels or by tank
trucks. Both sale and delivery were within the area long
held and occupied by the United States for military pur-.
poses.
The State demanded of appellant three cents per gallon
upon the gasoline so sold and delivered. Payment being
refused, this suit followed. In the trial court the Company prevailed. The Supreme Court held to the contrary and, among other things, said" We thus have presented the question whether sales
and deliveries of gasoline at a military reservation under
the sole jurisdiction of the United States, made to the
army post exchange therein, are to be excluded in fixing
the license fees to be paid by the distributor under said
act of the legislature. .

.

. It is at once conceded, as al-

ready implied, that the military reservation in question
is territory over which the United States exercises sole
legislative authority. .

.

. It is contended that, by rea-

son of this concession, a sale consummated on it is a sale
outside the state, as tho consummated in Nevada or
Oregon. It is our conclusion that the manifest intention
of the act was to include all sales completed within the
geographical confines of the state, and for this purpose
saidi military reservation was to be included like all other
territory." [218 Cal. 123, 126]
The Presidio of San Francisco, a tract of more than
fourteen hundred acres, lies between that city and the
Golden Gate, and is within the exterior limits of California. Established as a military post under Spanish dominion about 1776, it continued to be so used by the
Republic of Mexico until ceded to the United States in
1848 by the treaty of Guadalupe Ilidalgo. An executive

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

order of,November 6, 1850, dedicated it to public purposes;
since then it has been occupied as a military reservation.
By Act of March 2, 1897, California ceded to the United
States exclusive jurisdiction over this area with a proviso-" That this state reserves the right to serve and
execute on said lands all civil process, not incompatible
with this cession, and such criminal process as may lawfully issue under the authority of this state against any
person or persons charged with crimes committed without
said lands." See United States v. Watkins, 22 F. (2d)
437. The State reserved to herself no power whatever
in respect.of taxation.
Appellant challenges the validity of the taxing act as
construed by the Supreme Court. The argument is that
since the State granted to the United States exclusive
legislative jurisdiction over the Presidio, she is now without power to impose taxes in respect of sales and deliveries
made therein. This claim, we think, is well-founded; and
the judgment below must be reversed.
In three recent cases--Arlington' Hotel Co. v. Fant, 278
U.S. 439, United States v. Unzeuta, 281 U.S. 138, and
Surplus Trading Co. v. Cook, 281 U.S. 647-we have
pointed out the consequences of cession by a State to the
United States of jurisdiction over lands held by the latter
for military purposes. Considering these opinions, it
seems plain that by the Act of 1897 California surrendered
every possible claim of right to exercise legislative authority within the Presidio-put that area beyond the field
of operation of her laws. Accordingly, her Legislature
could not lay a tax upon transactions begun and concluded
therein.
Arlington Hotel Co. v. Fant, 278 U.S. 439, denied. the
power of Arkansas by legislation to modify the liability of
'Tkeepers within a reservation ceded by her to the
Jnited States.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RY. v. POTTORFF.
242

245

Syllabus.

'United States v. Unzeuta, 281 U.S. 13$,i affirmed the
exclusive jurisdiction of the United States over crimes
committed within a reservatiqn lying within Nebraska;
Jurisdiction hadbeen ceded by the State.
Surplus Trading.Co. v. Cook, 281 U.S. 647, ruled-that
land within Arkansas purchased by the United States for
military purposes with the State's consent was under their
exclusive jurisdiction. Private personal property therein
was declared not subject to taxation by the State.
The principle approved in those cases applies here. A
State can not legislate effectively concerning matters beyond her jurisdiction and within territory subject only to
control by the United States.
The judgment of the Supreme Court must be reversed.
The cause will be remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
TEXAS &, PACIFIC RAILWAY CO. v. POTTORFF,
RECEIVER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 128.

Argued December 7, 1933.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. A national bank has no power to pledge its assets to secure a
private deposit. P. 253.
2. Such pledges are neither customary nor necessary in the business
of such banks, and are inconsistent with provisions of the National
Banking Act designed to sccure uniform treatment of depositors
and ratable distribution of assets in case of disaster. Pp. 254-255.
3. The Acts of Congress authorizing national banks to give security
for deposits of specified publie funds, do not impart or imply
power to pledge assets to secure private deposits. P. 257.
4. rTe contention that since the relation of bank to depositor is that
of debtor and creditor, and since a national bank may borrow

