OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

premises was had. Matters were called to the jury's
attention in detail so that they could form judgments of
distance, relative position, the alinements of objects, all
having a crucial bearing upon the truthfulness of the
testimony subsequently given, and they were told they
might take their own estimates of these matters in corroboration or contradiction of the other evidence. Little
wonder, in these circumstances, that the court felt it right
to appoint the defendants' counsel to accompany the jury
on the view. If the prisoners were entitled to this protection, by the same token they were entitled themselves
to be present.
I think that the petitioner was deprived of a constitutional right and that the judgment should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER concur in this opinion.

and

PIGEON RIVER IMPROVEMENT, SLIDE & BOOM
CO. v. CHARLES W. COX, LTD.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 126.

Argued December 6, 7, 1933.-Decided January 15, 1934.

1. The Webster-Ashburton Treaty of 1842 declares that "all water
communications and all the usual portages along" the international
boundary line, as established by the Treaty "from Lake Superior
to the Lake of the Woods, and also Grand Portage, from the shore
of Lake Superior to the Pigeon River, as now actually used, shall be
free and open to the citizens and subjects of both countries."
Pigeon River is one of the waters traversed by the line, and Grand
Portage was one of several portages circuiting impassable falls and
rapids in that river which were used in aid of transportation by
canoe. Held that the clause does not preclude an improvement of
the stream, by sluiceways, booms and dams, rendering it capable
of transporting timber products--a use theretofore impossible be-

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

Statement of the Case.

cause of the natural obstructions; nor does it prevent the exaction
of a non-discriminatory charge for the use of such improvement.
P. .157.
2. Ambiguity in a treaty may be resolved by practical construction.
P. 158.
3. For the purpose of utilizing an international boundary stream (the
Pigeon River) for transportation of lumber products, the State of
Minnesota authorized a corporation to erect, and to collect tolls for
the use of, sluiceways, booms and dams within her limits, complementing like structures on the other side of the international line
made by another corporation under Canadian authority. Held:
(1) A State may make reasonable provision for local improvement of a navigable stream until its authority is superseded by
dominant Federal action. P. 158.
(2) The fact that the stream forms part of an international
boundary does not make this principle inapplicable. P. 158.
(3) The Act of March 3, 1901, by which Congress expressly
authorized the Minnesota corporation to improve part of the river
next to an Indian reservation, on condition that it be open to free
passage of timber cut from the reservation and passage of all other
timber for a reasonable charge, was, by necessary implication, an
approval of the improvements at other places, without which the
purpose of the Act could not have been accomplished. P. 159.
(4) This Act is not to be construed as abrogating or modifying
the treaty provision (supra) but is a practical construction of it.
P. 160.
(5) The action of the Province of Ontario in providing for complementary works on the Canadian side of the boundary and
authorizing tolls for their use, is also a practical construction of the
treaty provisions. P. 161.
(6) The structures and uses in question are among those recognized by the Treaty of January 11, 1909, with Great Britain, as
"heretofore permitted." 36 Stat. 2448. P. 161.
63 F. (2d) 567, reversed.

APPEAL from affirmance of a judgment dismissing a
complaint, in an action brought by a Minnesota corporation against a Canadian corporation to recover tolls for
the use of river improvements in the transportation of
timber products.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellant.

291 U.S.

Mr. John D. Jenswold, with whom Mr. Bernard R. Goggins was on the brief, for appellant.
The record and historical and geographical facts clearly
indicate, if they do not show conclusively, that Pigeon
River is non-navigable.
The territorial sovereignty of the State extends to the
international boundary at midstream.
The maintenance of appellant's works and the collection of reasonable charges for their use is authorized by
Act of Congress of March 3, 1901. Although this statute is not pleaded as a basis of appellant's rights, the
Court must take judicial notice of it.
The Act should be construed with a view to making it
effective for the purpose intended which was to so improve the river, throughout its entire length, as to make
it possible to get out timber, not only from the Indian
Reservation, but from all other points.
In the absence of regulation by Congress, the State
may supply the needed regulation.
The improvement and regulation of navigable waterways was long left largely to the States. It was not until
1890 that Congress assumed any material control and
then only to a limited extent. Act of September 19, 1890,
c. 907, § 10, 26 Stat. 426.
Even under this statute obstructions to navigation
authorized by the States might be constructed and continued without authority from Congress, the words "not
affirmatively authorized by law" being construed as
meaning authorization from either the state or federal
government.
It was not until 1899 that the entire control of navigable waters of the United States was withdrawn from the
States and taken over by Congress by the Rivers and
Harbors Act of that year. Act of March 3, 1S99, 30 Stat.
1151.

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

Argument for Appellant.

Since this enactment permission from the State as to
navigable waters within its own territorial limits is still
necessary in order to make the authority for the improvement complete and perfect. Montgomery v. Portland,
190 U.S. 89.
As late as 1905 private corporations were authorized by
Congress to inprove navigable waters of the United States
and to collect tolls therefor. Act of March 3, 1905, c.
1482, 33 Stat. 1117.
Congress has, however, never assumed to regulate or
control non-navigable waters. The power of the States
over them remains as it always has been. Within their
territorial limits they may either improve or authorize
their improvement and may collect or authorize the collection of tolls therefor in the same manner as they formerly did in the case of navigable waters.
Undoubtedly, Congress might, under the commerce
clause, regulate interstate or foreign commerce over nonnavigable waters. The power has, however, never been
exercised and, until it is, the power of the State is supreme
and plenary.
The portions of Pigeon River in which appellant's improvements are located were not "water communications" within the meaning of the treaty; they had never
been "actually used " as such; hence the treaty does not
inhibit appellant's improvements and collection of tolls.
The words "as now actually used" refer back to and
limit all that precedes; in other words, the treaty makes
only such of the "wafer communications" and of the
"usual portages" along the boundary line and the Grand
Portage as were then "actually used," "free and open"
to both countries.
When the treaty was made, the location and line of
these portages and of the intervening water communications, was a matter of certain knowledge. Geographical

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellant.

291 U.S.

knowledge of the region was then practically limited to
this land-water trail itself. These portages, as then used,
and the intervening water courses, as then used, constituted the boundary line first proposed by Lord Ashburton
to Daniel Webster in their negotiations,-a line which, as
he says, "has the advantage of being known and attended
with no doubt or uncertainty in running it."
This construction of the treaty is sustained not only
by President Tyler's message submitting the treaty to
the Senate, but also the diplomatic correspondence. Sen.
Docs., 3d Sess., 27th Cong., Vol. 1.
The term "water-communications" of itself implies
a meaning of waters used as a means of communication.
If this is not so, why was the word " waters " not used
instead?
The expression " free and open " does not imply freedom from charges for the use of special facilities provided, but means simply "common to the citizens and
subjects of both countries,"- " thrown open to the use
and? enjoyment of the citizens of both countries on equal
terms "; or in other words, "open without discrimination
to the citizens of each, without direct tax, impost or
duty."
Appellant is a public service corporation. It is boundby Minnesota statutes and the Act of Congress to collect
only "reasonable charges." These fall on everyone alike
regardless of citizenship. Appellant is forbidden to
discriminate.
Distinguishing: Rainy Lake Boom Corp. v. Rainy River
Lumber Co., 27 Ont.L.Rep. 131; Rainy Lake Boom Co. v.
Rainy River Co., 162 Fed. 287. See Arrow River Co. v.
Pigeon Timber Co., 1932 Canadian Sup. Ct. Rep. 495.
The phrase "free and open " as applied to navigation
and commerce is not new. Similar provisions are contained in various state constitutions, enabling acts and the
ordinance creating the Northwest Territory. The phrase

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

143

Argument for Appllee.

has been construed as we contend it should be. Huse v.
Glover, 119 U.S. 543; Sands v. Manistee River Imp. Co.,
123 U.S. 288; Cardwell v. American River Bridge Co.,
113 U.S. 210; Hamilton v. Vicksburg, 119 U.S. 280; Willametbe Iron Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U.S. 1, 9; Duluth
Lumber Co. v. St. Louis Boom & Imp. Co., 17 Fed. 419;
Osborne v. Knife Falls Boom Co., 32 Minn. 412; In re
Southern Wisconsin Power Co., 140 Wis. 245.
The words "free and open" not infrequently appear in treaties between this country and Great Britain.
8th Art., Treaty of Paris, 8 Stat. 80; Treaty of Washington, 1871, Art. XXVI; 17 Stat. 863; Treaty Consenting
to Panama Canal, Art. III, 32 Stat. 1903. See also Webster-Ashburton Treaty, Art. VII; Message of President
Tyler, Sen. Docs., 3d Sess., 27th Cong., Vol. 1; Art. III
of same Treaty; Root-Bryce Treaty of 1909, Art. I, 36
Stat. 2448.
If the treaty forbids appellant's works and collection
of tolls, it is superseded by the Act of Congress of 1901,
supra.
The use of Pigeon River is now controlled by the RootBryce Treaty of 1909, which impliedly repeals the Webster-Ashburton Treaty in so far as it may apply to Pigeon
River. This later treaty permits appellant's acts alleged
in the complaint.
Mr. Edward L. Boyle, with whom Messrs. H. B. Fryberger and H. C. Fulton were on the brief, for appellee.
The movement of forest products from Canada into
and along Pigeon River is foreign commerce. Rainy
River Boom Corp. v. Rainy River Lumber Co., 162 Fed.
:287.
Only the Government of the United States is authorized
to regulate foreign commerce.
The pulpwood in this case is cut from Canadian soil,
handled by Canadian labor and put into the Arrow River,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argunent for Appellee.

291 U.S.

which is an interior watercourse of the Dominion of
Canada. The Arrow River flows into the Pigeon River on
the Canadian side. The wood moves down the Arrow
River into the Pigeon River and down the Pigeon River
into Lake Superior, on its way to Canadian mills. It does
not come within the territorial limits of the United States.
Thc Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362; The Pilot, 50 Fed. 437; The
Fam', Fed. Cas. No. 4634
The Act of the Province of Ontario. under which the
Arrow River and Tributaries Slide &. Boom Co., td., is
organized, has the same standing with reference to the
Pigeon River as an Act of Congress would have with reference to that international boundary. An Act of the
Legislature of the State of Minnesota, on account of the
constitutional provisions giving to Congress the exclusive
power to regulate foreign commerce and making treaties
the supreme law of the land, has no such standing.
Arrow River Co. v. Pigeon Timber Co., 193i Canadian
Sup. Ct. Rep. 495.
The treaty adopts the Thaweg theory ot oundary
until the line reaches the mouth of the Pigeon River; then
the river itself is designated as the boundary. This made
the entire river a boundary water.
It would seem that the Act authorizing the state government recognizes the fact that, although the Pigeon
River borders on the State of Minnesota, it has already,
by the terms of the treaty, been designated an international highway over which the State of Minnesota has no
jurisdiction.
The imaginary boundary line running close to the middle of the PigeonRiver was not established by the Webster-Ashburton Treaty but was fixed by a survey made
under the direction of the international joint commission created by the Root-Bryce Treaty. This treaty does
not authorize the collection of tolls by the appellant.

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

Argument for Appellee.

Pigeon River from its mouth to Fort Charlotte is a
"water communication" within the meaning of the Webster-Ashburton Treaty. The diplomatic correspondence
supports this view.
"Free and open" means that the citizens and subjects of both countries have a right to use the River without interference and without paying for so doing. Cf.
Art. VII and Art. III of the Treaty. The diplomatic correspondence sustains this interpretation. So does President Tyler's message. Distinguishing: Huse v. Glover,
119 U.S. 543.
In considering the Arrow River Case, it is important
to keep in mind that treaties in British countries are not
"the supreme law of the land" unless sanctioned by
legislation. An Act of the Legislature of Ontario regulating foreign commerce, has the same standing in that
Province and in the Dominion of Canada as an Act of
the Federal Government has in the United States.
"As now actually used" applies only to Grand Portage.
"All water communications and all the usual portages
along the line " are to be free and open. "Grand Portage,
from the shore of Lake Superior to the Pigeon River, as
now actually used," is to be free and open. Liberal interpretation of the treaty demands this construction.
As for the words "free and open," in the Treaty of
Paris and the Treaty of Washington,-neither the Mississippi referred to in the one, nor that part of the St.
Lawrence referred to in the other, is a boundary water.
The Panama Canal Treaty is entirely different. It provides that the canal shall be free and open, "on terms
of entire equality" so that there shall be "no discrimination" against any such nation in respect of "the conditions or charges of traffic."
President Tyler's message does not support a claim that
"free and open " and "common" are synonymous.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellee.

291 U.S.

Navigability is not a controlling factor in this litigation.
The words " all water communications and all the usual
portages" shall be "free and open to the use of the
citizens and subjects of both countries" were not intended
to refer to navigable waters. The expression is more
comprehensive than the provisions relating to some of the
other waters along the line. The treaty made the Pigeon
River a border stream free and open to the citizens and
subjects of both countries, for whatever purpose this
stream might be useful. The modern rules of navigability had not been established when the Webstei'-Ashburton Treaty was written; and the rule in this Court
then depended upon the ebb and flow of the tide. If a
border water is in fact navigable it is by the law of nations
and without a treaty provision "free and open to the
citizens and subjects" of the countries on either side of
the river. The Fame, Fed. Cas. No. 4634.
If the Pigeon River is not a navigable stream, the State
of Minnesota could not grant to the defendant the right
to improve it or collect tolls thereon without condemning
the rights of the riparian owners. The defendant is not
a riparian proprietor and is not exercising the usual rights
of a riparian owner. And, even in its exercise* of the
power .of eminent domain, the State could not authorize
the taking of property beyond the international boundary
nor could it exercise any control over the water in the
stream, because this would belong to the owners on both
sides of the international line. The control of the water
in the river on one side results in the taking of property
on the other side. The usual powers of the State respecting navigable waters within its borders do not extend to
non-navigable streams. Stillman v. White Rock Mfg.
Co., Fed. Cas. No. 13446.
The Act of 1901 merely gives to appellant the right
"to enter, upon Grand Portage Indian Reservation and
imprqye Pigeon River" at one point. Rules and regu-

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
Opinion of the Court.

138

lations and conditions and limitations to be prescribed
by the Secretary of the Interior, were conditions precedent. An intention to alter and pro tanto abrogate a
treaty is not to be lightly attributed to Congress.
United States v. Payne, 264 U.S. 446. The Act was considered necessary only because of the existence of the
reservation adjacent to a portion of the river. It was so
presented to Congress. Cong. Rec., 56th Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 3462.
The Act of March 3, 1899, 30 Stat. 1151, is the governing statute.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Pigeon River Improvement, Slide & Boom Company,
a Minnesota corporation, brought this action against
Charles W. Cox, Limited, a Canadian corporation, to recover tolls for the use of improvements which the Minnesota corporation had made in the Pigeon River. These
improvements embraced sluiceways, booms and dams,
which were used by the defendant in driving, sluicing and
floating timber products. The case was removed to the
federal court, a demurrer to the amended complaint was
sustained without leave further to amend, and the judgment of dismissal was affirmed by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 63 F. (2d) 567. The case comes here on
appeal.
Pigeon River is a boundary stream between the State
of Minnesota and the Province of Ontario, Dominion of
Canada, at the northeast corner of Minnesota. The river
is a small stream which has its source in lakes on the
international boundary and flows in a southeasterly direction along that boundary for about forty miles, discharging at Pigeon Bay into Lake Superior. The boundary is approximately midstream. The defense against the
charge of tolls is based upon Article II of the Treaty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

1842-the Webster-Ashburton Treaty-which, after defining the international boundary, provides as follows: t
" It being understod that all the water communications
and all the usual portages along the line from Lake Superior to the Lake of the Woods, and also Grand Portage,
from the shore of Lake Superior to the Pigeon River, as
now actually used, shall be free and open to the use of
the citizens and subjects of both countries."
When this treaty was concluded, the lower portion of
the Pigeon River was impassable because of falls and
rapids. On July 25, 1842, Mr. Ferguson, who had been
surveyor to the commissioners under the seventh article
of the Treaty of Ghent,2 thus described this part of the
river in response to an inquiry by Mr. Webster:' "At the
mouth of the Pigeon River, there is probably about three
hundred yards in length of alluvial formation; but the
river above that, as far as to near Fort Charlotte, runs
between steep cut rocks of basaltic or primitive formation,
and is a succession of falls and rapids for nearly its whole
length-the last cataract, which is within about a mile of
its mouth, being almost one hundred feet in height."
Below Fort Charlotte, on the Pigeon River, communication with Lake Superior was by means of a trail about
nine miles long running south of the river, and some distance from it, which was known as the Grand Portage and
was so described in the treaty.4 In Mr. Webster's con'8 Stat. 574; Malloy, Treaties, vol. 1, pp. 652, 653.
'8 Stat. 221, 222; Malloy, Treaties, toc. cit., pp. 617, 624.
'Sen. Doe., vol. 1, No. 1, 27th Cong., 3d sess., pp. 104, 105. Sec also
"The Topography and Geology of the Grand Portage," George M.
Schwartz, Minnesota Historical Bulletin, vol. 9, p. 27.
' " The Pigeon River, which now forms the international boundary
at Lake Superior, was, in the days of water transportation, the best
natural highway between the Great Lakes or the St. Lawrence system,
and the great northwestern section of the continent, with its thousands of lakes and streams draining into Hudson Bay or the Arctic

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

Opinion of the Court.

munication to Lord Ashburton of July 27, 1842, summarizing the understanding which had been reached as
to the boundary and setting forth the proposed stipulation as to water communications and portages which was
incorporated in the treaty as above quoted, he said: "The
broken and difficult nature of the water communication
from Lake Superior to the Lake of the Woods renders
numerous portages necessary; and it is right that these
water communications and these portages should make a
common highway where necessary for the use of the subjects and citizens of both Governments."' 5 At the time
of the conclusion of the treaty, this was the highway of
commerce, used principally by fur traders, between the
Great Lakes and the country to the north and northwest."
But the Pigeon River itself, prior to the improvements
here in question, as alleged in the. complaint and admitted
by the demurrer, "was at all times incapable of use for the
driving, handling and floating of logs, pulp-wood and
timber."
Ocean. But the Pigeon River, through the last twenty miles of its
course before it flows into Lake Superior, is so obstructed by falls and
by cascades in rocky canyons as to be impossible of navigation. On
the Canadian side the land is too mountainous and the distance too
great for portaging to be practicable; but on the American side the
line of the lake shore is roughly parallel to the river, and about seven
or eight miles from the mouth of the river a little bay forms a natural
harbor from which a portage of about nine miles over not too difficult
country can be made to the Pigeon River above the cascades." "The
Story of the Grand Portage," Solon J. Buck, Minnesota History Bulletin, vol. 5, P. 14.
'Sen. Doc., vol. 1, No. 1, 27th Cong., 3rd sess.,"p. 61.
'For a description of the traffic carried on by means of the Grand
Portage, see "The Story of the Grand Portage," Minnesota History
Bulletin, vol. 5, pp. 15-26; "Voyages from Montreal through the
Continent of North America," Sir Alexander Mackenzie, vol. 1, pp.
lxxi, lxxvii-lxxxii; Henry-Thompson Journals, Elliott Coues, vol. 1.,
pp. 6, 7; Wisconsin Historical Collections, vol. xi, pp. 123-125, note.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Pigeon River Improvement, Slide & Boom Company,
which for convenience we may call the Pigeon River Company, was incorporated in 1898 under the General Laws of
Minnesota.7 These laws purported to empower the Pigeon River Company to improve streams by erecting sluiceways, booms, dams and other works; to acquire structures
already erected together with necessary rights of way,
shore rights, land and lands under water; to operate its
works so as to render the driving of logs practicable; and
to collect "reasonable and uniform tolls upon all logs,
lumber and timber driven, sluiced or floated" on the
streams so improved. The Company was also authorized,
in the case of a boundary stream, to purchase stock in a
corporation created in an adjoining State or country for
similar purposes upon the same stream, or to unite with
such a corporation, upon conditions stated. Acting under
this authority, the Pigeon River Company took possession
of the portion of Pigeon River within the State of Minnesota and improved it by erecting sluiceways, booms
and dams on the Minnesota side of the international
boundary.
. At the same time, the complaint alleges, the Arrow
River & Tributaries, Boom & Slide Company, was organized under the laws of the Dominion of Canada and
Province of Ontario, with powers and purposes siihilar
to those of the Pigeon River Company, but limited to
the portion of the Pigeon River and its tributaries within the Dominion of Canada. This Canadian corporation,
under an agreement with the Pigeon River Company,
similarly improved the portion of the Pigeon River on
the Dominion side of the boundary, so that the improvements made by each company "constituted complements
the one of the other, and the whole of said improvements
'General Laws of Minnesota, 1878, Chap. 34; 1889, Chap. 221;
1905, Chap. 89; Mason's Minnesota Statutes, 1927, §§ 7550-7552.

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
Opinion of the Court.

138

rendered the driving of logs thereon reasonably practicable
and certain." These improvements, which have since
been maintained, were all located below Fort Charlotte
on the Pigeon River, with the sole exception of a reservoir dam at the south end of South Fowl Lake.
Adjacent to the lower part of the Pigeon River on the
Minnesota side, lies the Grand Portage Indian Reservation, extending for a considerable distance along the
stream.' By the Act of Congress of March 3, 1901,1 the
Pigeon River Company was authorized, under such regulations and conditions as the Secretary of the Interior
might prescribe, to " improve the Pigeon River at what is
known as the cascades of said river, for the purpose of
making said river at said point navigable for floating logs."
For that purpose the Company was empowered to enter
upon unallotted lands and, with the consent of the allottees, upon allotted lands, adjacent to the cascades, of the
Grand Portage Indian Reservation and to construct such
dams, bulkheads and other works as should be necessary.
It was further provided that the river "after being so improved shall be open at all times to the free passage of all
timber cut from said Grand Portage Indian Reservation,
and to the passage of all other timber for a reasonable
charge therefor." "o It does not appear that the Secretary of the Interior prescribed any regulations or. conditions in relation to the improvements made by the Pigeon
River Company.
Recovery is now sought for the use by the defendant,
a Canadian corporation, of these improvements in the
years 1928, 1929, and 1930, in driving, sluicing and floating upon the Pigeon River its ptlp wood and railway ties.
10 Stat. 1110; see, also, H.R. 51st Cong., 1st sess., Ex. Doc. No.
247, p. 59.

C. 87S, 31 Stat. 1455.
"See Cong. Rec., 56th Cong., 2d sess., vol. 34, pt. 4, p. 3462.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

This timber, the defendant says in its argument, was cut
from Canadian lands and put into the Arrow River, a
tributary in Canada of the Pigeon River, and was floated
into the Pigeon River on its way to Lake Superior and
Canadian mills. The tolls charged the defendant are alleged in the complaint, and thus admitted, to be the
" reasonable and uniform tolls" which the Pigeon River
Company had established. No question is raised as to
reasonableness or discrimination, the only question being
whether, in the light of the provision of the treaty, any
tolls whatever could be charged. The contentions of the
defendant are that the Pigeon River is a boundary stream
and, as one of the " water communications" described in
the treaty, must be kept " free and open " to the use of
the citizens and subjects of both countries; that the imposition of tolls is inconsistent with this stipulated immunity and is not justified by the legislation which the
Pigeon River Company invokes.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in the instant case followed its earlier decision in Clark v. Pigeon River Improvement, Slide & Boom Co., 52 F. (2d) 550, where the
court reached the conclusion that the charge of tolls was
forbidden by the treaty. The court disagreed with the
view advanced by the Pigeon River Company that the
words of the treaty " as now actually used " limited the
provision as to " free and open " use, expressing the opinion that these qualifying words referred only to the Grand
Portage. Id., pp. 555, 556. In support of its conclusion,
the Circuit Court of Appeals cited the decision of the
Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of Ontario in
the case of Arrow River & Tributaries,Slide & Boom Co.,
66 Ont.L.R. 577; where the court held that the Canadian
Company did not have " the right to build upon the bed
of the Pigeon River anything which may interfere with
the enjoyment of free and open use of it by the citizens
of the United States." After the Circuit Court of Ap-

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

Opinion of the Court.

peals had decided the Clark ease. the judgment in the case
of the Arrow River Company was reversed by the Supremne Court of Canada. 1932 Canadian Supreme Court
Reports, 495. The latter decision was brought to the
attention of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the instant
case, but the court adhered to its former opinion. 63 F.
(2d) 568, 569.
The litigation in Canada presented the question
whether the statutes of the Province of Ontario authorized the Canadian Company to construct and maintain
works upon the Pigeon River on the Ontario side of the
international boundary and to charge tolls upon timber
passing through those works. It appeared that the
Arrow River & Tributaries, Slide & Boom Company,
Ltd.. had becn incorporated in 1922 under the Ontario
Companies Act," for the purpose of acquiring or constructing dams, booms and other works to facilitate the
transmission of timber down the Arrow River, and its
tributaries, and that part of the Pigeon River which is
within the Province of Ontario; and that the Company
had acquired title to, and had extended, works which had
been erected by a former corporation formed in 1899 with
the same shareholders and directors and with similar
objects. The Company applied to the District Judge
for approval of tolls to be charged for the use of these
works, and the respondent in that case, the Pigeon River
Timber Company. Ltd., sought an injunction restraining
the District Judge from acting upon the application. The
Webster-Ashburton Treaty was invoked and it was contended that the provision of the Ontario statute, so far as
it purported to authorize the Company to charge tolls for
the use of its improvements on that river, was "ultra
vires of the Ontario Legislature."
The District Judge
R.S.O. 1914, c. 178; R.S.O. 1927, e. 218; Lakes and Rivers Improvement Act, R.S.O. 1927, c. 43, §§ 32, 52.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

refused the injunction, for the reason that " treaties to
which Great Britain is a party are not as such binding on
the individual subject in the absence of legislation." On
appeal, the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of
Ontario agreed with that principle but had a different
opinion as to the effect of the legislation of Ontario.
That Court decided that the statute in question applied
to lakes and rivers that were wholly within the Province
and did not apply to the Pigeon .River which was a
boundary stream. The reason given for this construction
was that the court should not impute to the legislature
an intent to authorize a violation of the terms of the
treaty, if the statutory provision was capable of another
construction. The Supreme Court of Canada reversed
this decision of the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court of Ontario, holding that the statute did authorize
the construction of the works on the Pigeon River and
also the charge of tolls for the use of the improvements,
and, as thus construed, was within the competency of the
provincial legislature.
In the Supreme Court of Canada three opinions were
delivered. Three of the five judges held that the legislation was not in conflict with the terms of the treaty. Of
this majority, Judges Rinfret and Smith, in an opinion
delivered by the latter, took the view that the right preserved by the provision of the treaty "was the right to
continue to use the water communication and portages
then in use." They expressly disagreed with the opinion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the Clark case, supra,
that the words "as now actually used'" applied only to
Grand Portage. These judges could not see any reason
" for preserving a right to use Grand Portage that would
not apply to other portages," and they thought that the
language of the provision appeared " to apply to all,, and
to the water communications, and should- be so construed." They added: "What was being dealt with, and

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

Opinion of the Court.

what was in the contemplation of the parties, was travel
and transportation over the water communications and
portages as then used, and there was . . . no thought or
intention of dealing with the use of these non-navigable
rapids and falls that were not in use and could not be
used, the passing of which was provided for by the
portages."
Chief Justice Anglin wrote a separate opinion agreeing
in the result "largely for the reasons" stated by Judges
Rinfret and Smith. He said, however, that he should
have "preferred it had the majority of the court seen its
way clear to base its decision upon a holding" that the
stipulation of the treaty "was merely meant to ensure to
the citizens of both countries equality of rights in regard
to the water communications, portages, etc., and that it
never was intended thereby to provide that in no event
should either party to the treaty be at liberty, as regards
citizens of its own nationality, to impose tolls for the use
of improvements lawfully to be made thereon "; that
"where either party to the treaty saw fit to impose tolls
upon its own citizens, in regard to such improvements, it
should be at liberty to impose like tolls (but none greater)
on citizens of the other country for the use of the improvements so made."
Two judges-Judges Lamont and Cannon-delivered
an opinion to the effect that " although at the date of the
treaty the chief purpose for which these water communications were being used was the transportation by boat
or canoe of persons and goods, the clause in question
places no limit on the purposes for which they might be
used "; that "they are to be 'free and open ' to the people
of both countries for whatever purpose they may desire
to use them as a water communication," and therefore if
"they could be used for any purpose which did not
necessitate the making of a portage to get past a point of
danger," there was " nothing in the clause, or in any other

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion f Ile ('ourt.

291 U.S.

part of the treaty, which would compel the use of the
)ortage in order to have a free passage." These judge
thought that to hold otherwise would be " to give too
narrow a construction to the language used, and to impute
a want of vision to the framers of the treaty." They
expressed the opinion that the Pigeon River " from its
mouth along both sides of the boundary line, forms part
of the ' water communications ' which were to be free and
open,' an(l that this provision is not (onsiste't with the

imposition of tolls for the use of improvemiients erected in
the river. While thus construing the treaty, Judges
Lamont and Cannon nevertheless reached the final conclusion that the legislation authorizing the imposition of
tolls was applicable and valid. This was in the view that
"the legislative competence of a provincial legislature is
as plenary and as ample as the Imperial Parliament in
the plenitude of its power possessed, an( could bestow ";
that the existence of the treaty does not of itself impose a
limitation upon the provincial legislative power; that
" the treaty in itself is not equivalent to an Imlperial Act
and, without the sanction of Parliament, the Crown cannot alter the existing law by entering into a contract with
a foreign power." Hence, it was said, the rights and
privileges given by a treaty are, under Canadian law,
enforceable by the courts only where the treaty "has
been implemented or sanctioned by legislation rendering
it binding upon the subject," and the statute giving
authority to impose tolls for the use of the improvements
"must be considered to be a valid enactment until the
treaty is implemented by Imperial or Dominion legislation." While the judges of the Supreme Court of Canada
thus differed in the grounds of their judgments, they
agreed in the result.
Under this decision in Canada and that of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, we have the extraordinary situation
that as to these improvements at the same place on the

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

Opinion of the Court,

boundary stream-improvernents necessarily complementary to each other-the Ontario Company may impose charges upon citizens of the United States for the
use of its works on the Canadian side of the line while the
Minnesota Company may not charge citizens of Canada
for the use of its corresponding works on the Minnesota
side.
In deciding the instant case, we think that there are
controlling considerations which make it unnecessary to
pass broadly upon the significance of the words " free and
open " in provisions in treaties relating to the use of navigable streams.-a phrase which with different contexts
has been repeatedly used in international engagements.'"
The question here is simply as to the application of these
words of the Webster-Ashburton Treaty to this particular
boundary stream, the Pigeon River, at points where the
river was impassable and hence not used as a means of
communication at the time the treaty was made, the
travel an(i transportation of that period, and of earlier
times, necessarily seeking the portage by means of which
alone it was practicable to secure the desired communication. The words of the clause in question " as now actually used," undoubtedly refer to the Grand Portage, but
we think there is force in the reasoning of the opinion of
Judges Rinfret and Smith in the Supreme Court of Canada that these words were not limited to that portage, and
we are not convinced that it was the intention either to
" See Treaty of Septomber 3, 1783, between the United States and
(,rfeat Britain, Art. VIII, Malloy, 1). 5S9; Webster-Ashburton Treaty,
1812, Art. III, Malloy, p. 653; Treaty of Washington, 1871, Arts.
XXVI, XXVIII, compare Art. XXVII, Malloy, 1). 711; Convention
concerning the Boundary Waters between the United States and Canada, 1909, Art. I, U.S. Treaties, vol. 3, p. 2608; Treaty of Guadalupe
Iidalgo, 1848, Arts. VI, VII, Gadsden Treaty, 1853, Art. IV, Malloy,
pp. 1111, 1123; Moore, International Law Digest, vol. 1, pp. 625,
et seq.; Hyde, International Law, vol. 1, §§ 160, et seq.; Oppenhcim,
International Law, 4th ed., §§ 178, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

preclude an improvement which would make a stream
along the boundary available for use theretofore impossible, or to prevent a reasonable and non-discriminatory
charge for the use of such an improvement. In the terms
of the treaty we find no compelling clarity of prohibition.
At best, the clause is ambiguous, and it is appropriate that
we should look to the practical construction which has
been placed upon it.
With respect to the portion of the stream within the
territorial jurisdiction of the State of Minnesota, the
legislature of that State authorized the erection of these
improvements and the charging of reasonable tolls. In
contemplation of improvements of this sort in. a stream
forming part of the international boundary, the state
legislation expressly provided for the uniting of such an
enterprise with a similar and complementary project appropriately authorized with respect to the Canadian portion of the stream. In the absence of a violation of
treaty, or of conflict with an act of the Congress, there
can be no doubt as to the power of the State to establish
such an aid to commerce. An undertaking of this character by the State falls within the familiar category of
cases in which a State may make reasonable provision for
local improvements until its authority is superseded by
dominant federal action. 3 The fact that the stream
forms part of the international boundary does not make
this principle inapplicable. Where, under § 9 of the
"Willson v. Blackbird Creek Marsh Co., 2 Pet. 245; Gilman v.
Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713; Pound v. Turck, 95 U.S. 459; Mobile
County v. Kimball, 102 U.S. 691; Cardwell v. American Bridge Co.,
113 U.S. 205; Huse v. Glover, 119 U.S. 543; Sands v. Manistee River
Improvement Co., 123 U.S. 288; Lindsay & Phelps Co..v. Mullen,
176 U.S. 120; Minnesota'Rate Cases, 230 U.S. 352, 403-405; International Bridge Co. v. New York, 254 U.S. 126; Economy Light &
Power Co. v. United States, 256 U.S. 113; Newark v. Central R. Co.,
267 U.S. 377.

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

Opinion of the Court.

Act of March 3, 1899,14 the consent of Congress is required for the erection of structures in or over navigable
waters not lying wholly within a State, " The act does
not make Congress the source of the right to build but
assumes that the right comes from another source, that
is, the State "; it merely subjects the exercise of the right
"to the further condition of getting from Congress consent to action upon the grant." InternationalBridge Co.
v. New Yorki 254 U.S. 126, 133.
It is not necessary to decide whether, in view of the
impassable condition of the portion of the Pigeon River
under consideration, the improvements came under the
provisions of either § 9 or § 10 of the Act of March 3,
1899,15 as we are of the opinion that the improvements
were made with the consent of Congress. By the Act
of March 3, 1901 16 (which apparently was not brought
to the attention of the Circuit Court of Appeals), the
Congress expressly authorized the Pigeon River Company to improve the river in order that it might be rendered navigable for floating logs, to erect dams and other
works necessary for that purpose, and to impose a reasonable charge for the passage of all timber save that
which was cut from the adjoining Grand Portage Indian
Reservation. The fact that this authority directly applied to that part of the Pigeon River known as "the
cascades" does not, in our judgment, detract from the
significance of the Act as showing the acquiescence of the
Congress in the improvements here in question. The authority was given because of the governmental interest in
the Indian Reservation adjacent to the Pigeon River, and
"30 Stat. 1151.
" See United States v. Rio Grande IrrigationCo., 174 U.S. 690, 707,
708; Leovy v. United States, 177 U.S. 621, 628; Economy Light &
Power Co. v. United States, 256 U.S. 113, 123, 124; Wisconsin v.
Illinois, 278 U.S. 367, 412, 413.
"8See Note 9.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

it is obvious that the works at the cascades would have
been futile if the related portions of the river required
for the contemplated flotation of timber were not appropriately improved. The consent of the Congress, running
expressly to the Pigeon River Company as a corporation
organized under the applicable laws of Minnesota. for the
erection of the structures at the cascades where the interests of the Indian Reservation were involved, necessarily
implied acquiescence in the action by the State in authorizing the improvements which would accomplish the
purpose which the Congress had in view. Nor does it affect the question that the congressional authorization was
stated to be subject to such regulations and conditions as
the Seeretary of the Interior might prescribe. It is not
shown that the Secretary has imposed restrictions and the
Act did not require him to impose them.
We find no reason for regarding this action as intended
to abrogate or modify the provision of the Webster-Ashburton Treaty. So far as the Act of Congress specifically
authorized the charging of tolls for the use of the improvements on the Minnesota side of the boundary, it would
control in our courts as the later expression of our municipal law, even though it conflicted with the provision
of the treaty and the international obligation remained
unaffected. The Cherokee Tobacco, 11 Wall. 616, 621;
Head Money Cases, 112 U.S. 580, 597; Cook v. United
States, 288 U.S. 102, 120. But the intention to abrogate
or modify a treaty is not to be lightly imputed to the
Congress. Chew Heong v. United States, 112 U.S. 536,
549; United States v. Payne, 264 U.S. 446, 449; Cook v.
United States, supra. We think that it is proper to infer
that the Congress, in view of the condition of the stream
and the purpose of the improvements, did not consider
the authority to make them and to impose a reasonable
charge for their use, as being inconsistent with the treaty

PIGEON RIVER CO. v. COX CO.
138

Opinion of the Court.

stipulation. We regard the action of the Congress, following that of the State, as a practical construction of
the treaty as permitting these works and justifying the
charge.
The same may be said of the action of the Province of

Ontario in providing for the complementary works on
the Canadian side of the boundary and authorizing tolls
for their use. While this action was taken in the plenitude of the power of the provincial legislature as defined
by the Supreme Court of Canada, we perceive no reason
for ascribing to that legislature an intention to override
the provision of the treaty, but rather see in that action
an assumption on the part of the legislature that its
course was not repugnant to the treaty, an inference
which finds abundant support in the conclusion of the
majority of the judges of the Supreme Court of Canada.
Nor does it appear that either of the Parties to the treaty
has made to the other any representations as to a breach
of obligation by reason of the making of the improvements or the imposition of tolls. We find no ground for
rejecting the practical construction which the treaty has
thus received.
Further, in 1909, for the purpose of settling all questions pending between the United States and the 1)omiiiion of Canada, " involving the rights, obligations or interests of either in relation to the other or to the inhabitants
of the other, along their common frontier," the United
States and Great Britain entered into a treaty concerning
the boundary waters." By Article I of this treaty the
Parties formulated their agreement " that the navigation
of all navigable boundary waters shall forever continue
free and open for the purposes of commerce to the inhabitants and to ships, vessels and boats of both countries
"36 Stat. 2448, U.S. Treaties, vol. 3, p. 2607.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

equally." "

291 U.S.

The treaty expressly refers to uses and ob-

structions of boundary waters which had theretofore been
permitted, and sets up an International Joint Coiimmission with jurisdiction to deal with future uses and obstructions, as stated. Article III of the treaty thus provides: " It is agreed that, in addition to the uses, obstructions, and diversions heretofore permitted or hereafter
provided for by special agreement between the parties
hereto, no further or other uses or obstructions or diversions, whether temporary or permanent, of boundary
waters on either side of the line, affecting the natural
level or flow of boundary waters on the other side of

the line, shall be made except by authority of the United
States or the Dominion of Canada within their respective
jurisdictions and with the approval, as hereinafter pro-

vided, of a joint commission to be known as the International Joint Commission."
Article I of the Treaty of 1909 is as follows:
The High Contracting Parties agree that the navigation of all
navigable boundary waters shall forever continue free and open for
the purposes of commerce to the inhabitants and to the ships, vessels,
and boats of both countries equally, subject, however, to any laws and
regulations of either country, within its own territory, not inconsistent
with such privilege of free navigation and applying equally and without discrimination to the inhabitants, ships, vessels, and boats of both
countries.
"It is further agreed that so long as this treaty shall remain in
force, this same right of navigation shall extend to the waters of Lake
Michigan and to all canals connecting boundary waters, and now existing or which may hereafter be constructed on either side of the line.
Either of the High Contracting Parties may adopt rules and regulations governing the use of such canals within its own territory and
may charge tolls for the use thereof, but all such rules and regulations
and all tolls charged shall al))ly alike to the subjects or citizens of the
High Contracting Parties and the ships, vessels, and boats of both of
the High Contracting Parties, and they shall be placed on terms of
equality in the use thereof."
"

HELVERING v. CANFIELD.
Syllabus.

138

We think it may fairly be said that the improvements
here in question on the Pigeon River constituted structures and uses which had been permitted by the Parties
prior to the treaty of 1909 and were recognized by that
treaty. It does not appear that any action has been taken
by either Government or by the International Joint Commission inconsistent with this view.
We conclude that it was error to sustain the demurrer
to the amended complaint. The judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded
for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Reversed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. CANFIELD.*
CERTIORARI TO THE

CIRCUIT
SEVENTH

No. 158.

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued December 13, 1933.-Decided January 15, 1934.

The Revenue Act of 1921, § 201 (a) (b), provides that any distribution made by a corporation to its shareholders out of profits
accumulated since February 28, 1913, is taxable; and, for the
purposes of the Act, every distribution is regarded as made from
the most recently accumulated profits to the extent that they
have accumulated since that date; but profits accumulated prior to
March 1, 1913 may be distributed exempt from tax after profits
accumulated since February 28, 1913, have been distributed. A
corporation with a surplus on March 1, 1913, made a distribution
after ensuing years in the earlier of which it suffered losses and in
the later of which it made profits. Held that, to determine the
amount exempt under the statute, the losses should be deducted
from the surplus of March 1, 1913, not be charged against the
subsequent profits. P. 166.
62 F. (2d) 751, reversed.
65 F. (2d) 234, affirmed.
*Together
with No. 212, Thorsen v. Helvering, Commissioner of
Internal Revenue, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit.

