HANSEN v. HAFF.
502

Syllabus.

to the caprice of the hour; government by stable laws
will pass.
The somewhat misty suggestion below that condemnation of the challenged legislation would amount to holding "that the due process clause has left milk producers
unprotected from oppression," I assume, was not intended
as a material contribution to the discussion upon the
merits of the cause. Grave concern for embarrassed farmers is everywhere; but this should neither obscure the
rights of others nor obstruct judicial appraisement of
measures proposed for relief. The ultimate welfare of
the producer, like that of every other class, requires dominance of the Constitution. And zealously to uphold this
in all its parts is the highest duty intrusted to the courts.
The judgment of the court below should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER authorize me to say that

they concur in this opinion.
HANSEN v. HAFF, ACTING- COMMISSIONER. OF
IMMIGRATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 325. Argued February 6, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.
1.'A reentry permit does not entitle an alien to remain in the country
if of a prohibited class. P. 561.
2. An alien of a prohibited class is liable to deportation within five
years of entry or reentry. Act of February 5, 1917, § 19; 8 U.S.C.,
§ 155. P. 561.
3. In § 3, Act of February 5, 1917, prohibiting entry to any person
coming into the country "for the purpose of p~ostitution or for
any other immoral purpose," the words "any other immoral pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

pose" are limited by the principle of ejusdem generis to objectives
of the same character as prostitution. P. 562.
4. An alien woman who on her return to this country from a trip
abroad is attended by a man with whom she has had, and still
intends to continue, illicit sex relations, but whose paramount
object in entering is to resume her former residence here and
pursue a legitimate occupation, is not a person coming into the
United States for an immoral purpose, within the meaning of § 3
of the Act. P. 562.
65 F. (2d) 94, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 615, to review the affirmance of an
order denying a writ of habeas corpus in the case of a
woman held for deportation under the Immigration Act.

Mr. Roger O'Donnell, with whom Mr. Stephen M.
White was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Sweeney, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Mr. Harry S. Ridgely were on the
brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By § 3 of the Immigration Act of 1917' Congress
ordained "That the following classes of aliens shall be
excluded from admission into the United States: ...
prostitutes, or persons coming into the United States
for the purpose of prostitution or for any other immoral
purpose." In reliance upon this mandate the petitioner
was ordered deported, and the question is whether she
is within the proscribed class.
She is'a citizen of Denmark, and first came here in 1922,
making her home in Los Angeles, California, where she
was employed as a domestic servant. In 1924 she became
acquainted with a married man and in 1925 commenced
'Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29, 39 Stat. 874; U.S.C. Title 8, § 136.

HANSEN v. HAFF.
559

Opinion of the Cdurt.

having illicit relations with him; she did not live with him
and was not supported by him, but resided where she was
employed and supported herself from her own earnings,
although he gave her money and clothing from time to
time. In 1926 she made a trip to Denmark to visit her
parents, and returnedto Los Angeles in 1928, where she
again took service is a domestic. In May, 1931, she made
a second visit to Denmark to see her relatives. On this
occasion she was accompanied by the man with whom
she had been intimate, who paid part of her expenses. He
went to Europe to attend a convention in Vienna. For a
portion of the time they travelled together in Europe,
having illicit relations. They returned together through
Canada, coming from Vancouver to Seattle, where they
entered the United States, she being admitted by the
authorities as a returning resident. They went to a hotel
in Seattle where they registered as man and wife. Upon
her arrest by immigration officers she admitted her purpose to continue the relationship of husband and wife
with the man, until they should arrive in Los Angeles, but
denied that it washer intention to continue it after arrival
in that city.
Upon these facts, developed at the hearing before a
board of inspectors, the Secretary of Labor ordered the
petitioner deported. She petitioned the District Court
for a writ of habeas corpus, an order to show cause was
issued and, after hearing, the writ was denied. On appeal
the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.2 The case is here
on certiorari
The petitioner's previous residence here and her possession of a reentry permit do not entitle her to remain
in this country.. Lapina v. Williams, 232 U.S. 78; Lewis
v. Frick, 233 U.S. 291. She was liable to deportation at
'65 F. (2d) 94.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

any time within five years of her entry at the Port of
Seattle, if she was a member of one of the prohibited
classes of aliens.'
Was she a prostitute, or person coming into the country
"for the purpose of prostitution or for any other immoral
purpose" within the intent of § 3 of the Act of 1917?
The respondent does not contend that she is a prostitute
or that her purpose in entering the United States was to
practice prostitution, but he affirms that she did come for
an immoral purpose as defined by the statute. We cannot adopt this conclusion.
The principle of ejusdem generis limits the connotation
of the words " any other immoral purpose" to such as are
of like character with prostitution, United States v. Bitty,
.208 U.S. 393, 401; and extra-marital relations, short of
concubinage, fall short of that description.
Moreover, it can not be said that the petitioner's entry
was for the purpose of having such relations. The respondent argues that as she had indulged in misconduct
before leaving, had continued that misconduct while on
her trip abroad and intended to continue it at least until
she should arrive in Los Angeles, the Secretary of Labor
was justified in disbelieving her statement that the relations would cease when she took up her residence in that
city. This may be conceded; but it does not follow that
her purpose in returning to the United States was to continue her irregular and improper conduct. The fact is
that she was returning to her former residence, and nothing is disclosed to indicate that she did not intend, as she
claimed, to resume her employment as a domestic. Her
entry cannot be said to be with the purpose "only that
she might live in a state of concubinage." United States
v. Bitty, supra, 403. People not of good moral character,
'Act of February 5, 1917, c. 29, § 19, 39 Stat. 889; U.S.C. Title 8,

§ 155.

HANSEN v. HAFF.
559

BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

like others, travel from place to place and change their

residence. But to say that because they indulge in illegal
or immoral acts, they travel for that purpose, is to emphasize that which is incidental and ignore what is of
primary significance. Compare Ex parte Rocha, 30 F.
(2d) 823.
The Mann Act 4 creates the offense of transporting in
interstate commerce a woman or girl "for the purpose of
prostitution or debauchery, or for any other immoral purpose . . ." This court has said that act "seeks to reach
and punish the movement in interstate commerce of
women and girls with a view to the accomplishment of
the unlawful purposes prohibited." Caminetti v. United
States, 242 U.S. 470, 491. Accordingly it has been held
that the transportation denounced must have for its object or be a means of effecting or facilitating the sexual
intercourse of the participants. If the purpose of the
journey is not sexual intercourse, though that be contemplated, the statute is not violated. Welsch v. United
States, 220 Fed. 764; Fisher v. United States, 266 Fed.
667; Sloan v. United States, 287 Fed. 91; Alpert v. United
States, 12 F. (2d) 352; Hunter v. United States, 45 F. (2d)
55. So here, by the language of the act, the purpose of
the entry is made controlling. And we think it plain that
in no proper sense may the entry of the petitioner be said
to have been for the purpose of immoral sexual relations.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER, dissenting.

The statute forbids admission of "persons coming into
the United States for the purpose of prostitution or for
any other immoral purpose." The doctrine of this decision is that "extra-marital relations " of an unmarried
'Act of June 25, 1910, c. 395, 36 Stat. 825; U.S.C. Title 18, §§
397-400.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
BUTLER,

J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

woman that fall short of concubinage are not within the
condemnation of the statute. But there is no ground for
the assumption that petitioner is not the concubine of a
married man. Since 1924 she has continued illicit relations with him. They cohabited as, and held themselves
out to be, husband and wife abroad and in this country
while not in the vicinity of his home. Admittedly, these
relations were to continue until again they reached that
neighborhood. There is abundant warrant for the Secretary's conclusion that petitioner returned to this country
as, and intending to coptinue to be, that man's concubine.
The findings quote Webster's definition--" a woman who
cohabits with a man without being his wife." The Secretary found her to be such a person. He relied upon, and
I think rightly applied, the opinion in United States v.
Bitty, 208 U.S. 393.
Bitty was indicted under a provision of the Act of February 20, 1907, 34 Stat. 898, forbidding "the importation
into the United States of any alien woman . . . for the
purpose of prostitution, or for any other immoral purpose." The indictment alleged importation of a woman
for an "immoral purpose," namely, " that she should live
with him as his [Bitty's] concubine." The circuit court
dismissed the indictment on the ground that the facts alleged did not constitute a violation of the statute. This
court reversed. The phrase there construed is in the same
words as that now under consideration. They undoubtedly have the same meaning. In that case defendant's
counsel maintained that Congress did not by that Act intend to legislate against "those isolated cases where certain individuals come into this country with their mistresses." But repelling that construction, this court said
(p. 401) that: "In forbidding the importation of alien
women 'for any other immoral purpose,' Congress evidently thought that there were purposes in connection
with the importations of alien women which, as in the

HANSEN v. HAFF.
559

BUTLER,

565

J., dissenting.

case of importations for prostitution, were to be deemed
immoral." After reference to the rule of ejusdem generis
relied on by the defendant, the court said (p. 402): "But
that rule cannot avail the accused in this case; for, the
immoral purpose charged in the indictment is of the same
general class or kind as the one that controls in the importation of an alien woman for the purpose strictly of
prostitution. The prostitute may, in the popular sense,
be more degraded in character than the concubine, but
the latter none the less must be held to lead an immoral
life, if any regard whatever be had to the views that are
almost universally held in this country, as to the relations which may rightfully, from the standpoint of morality, exist between man and woman, in the matter of sexual
intercourse. . . (p. 403.) The statute in question, it
must be remembered, was intended to keep out of this
country immigrants whose permanent residence here
would not be desirable or for the common good, and we
cannot suppose either that Congress intended to exempt
from the operation of the statute the importation of an
alien woman brought here only that she might live in a
state of concubinage with the man importing her, or
that it did not regard such an importation as being for an
immoral purpose."
Moreover, the statute is not limited to prostitution and
concubinage. While the Secretary regarded her as a concubine, his decision may not fairly be held to depend upon
that characterization. Plainly it rests upon the ground
there stated " that she entered for an immoral purpose "
condemned by the statute. The law does not require him
more definitely to classify. Refinements of nomenclature
adopted for the sake of decency in speech may not be
used to conjure up doubts and distinctions that obscure
the real substance of the statute. The meaning of the
findings is that petitioner's doings and course of living
constitute a kind of immorality that bars admission. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

Secretary rightly may have deemed that her admitted
intention temporarily to continue, when coupled with environment, opportunity and temptation under which
habitual transgression had developed and for years persisted, amounted to a fixed purpose indefinitely to remain
in concubinage. That is enough.
And there is nothing in the opinion in United States v.
Bitty, supra, or elsewhere, to support the .idea that Congress intended to keep out only those coming exclusively
for the purposes referred to and to admit prostitutes, concubines and the like intending to follow legitimate occupation while practicing, incidentally or otherwise, any of
the immoralities covered by the statute. Indeed, the
court's opinion implies that if concubinage were her principal Or. primary purpose she ought to be excluded even
though she intended regularly to pursue her work as a
domestic. The. making of exclusion to depend upon the
determination whether the immoral purpose is dominant
or subordinate goes far to strike down the statute by
making its enforcement difficult and in many cases practically impossible. Congress undoubtedly intended to exclude those who entertain a purpose here to practice prostitution or immorality of that sort. That is the construction adopted by the Secretary, the District Court
and the Circuit Court of Appeals. They are right. Petitioner's application for a writ of habeas corpus was properly denied.
LIFE & CASUALTY INSURANCE CO. OF TENNESSEE v. McCRAY.'
APPEAL FROM THh SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 89.

Argued February 5, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

1.-A state statute by' which a life insurance company, if it fail to
pay upon demand the amount due under a policy after death of
the insured, is made liable in addition for fixed damages, reasou-

