420

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Statement of the Case.

291 U.S.

prevent it or to keep the wharf in such a proper state of
repair that children would not be exposed to the danger
of falling through holes.
Judgment reversed

HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 343. Argued February 7, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

1. An alien resident of the United States returning from a temporary visit abroad is a "non-quota immigrant."

of 1924, § 4 (b).

Immigration Act

P. 422.

2. By §§ 10 (a), (b), (c), (f), and 13 (b), of the Immigration Act,
and regulations thereunder, a permit to reenter granted to an
immigrant who has been legally admitted to the United States
and who departs therefrom temporarily, is the equivalent of an
immigration visa for the purpose of determining his right to readmission, under § 13 (a), and the liability of a steamship company
for bringing him back, under § 16 (a). P. 422.
3. Where a steamship company brings in a non-quota immigrant
without immigration visa or regntry permit, it is liable to fine under
§ 16 of the Act notwithstanding that the Secretary of Labor, acting
on discretionary authority assumed to be conferred by § 13, admits
him to the country, since subdivision (f) of § 13 provides that
nothing in that section "shall authorize the remission or refunding
of a fine, liability to which has accrued under Section 16." P. 425.
4. Where an immigrant, unlawfully brought in without visa or
reentry permit, is nevertheless admitted, the fine of $1,000 can
legally be imposed on the steamship company under § 16 (b)
without requiring it to pay the passage money. P. 426.
65 F. (2d) 369, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

290 U.S. 615, to review the affirmance of a

judgment dismissing the complaint in an action by a
steamship company to recover a fine exacted under the
Immigration Act.

HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE v. U.S.
420

421

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Roger O'Donnell, with whom Messrs. Win. J. Peters
and Lambert O'Donnell were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. J. W. Morris argued the cause,' and Solicitor General Biggs, Assistant Attorney General Wideman, and
Messrs. Paul A. Sweeney and H. Brian Holland filed a
brief, for the United States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Philip O'Reilly, a-native of Ireland and resident in, the
United States, returned in October, 1928, on plaintiff's
vessel, from a temporary visit abroad. He had neither
an unexpired immigration visa nor a permit to re~nter.
On his arrival, the immigration officers ordered his exclusion, but he was eventually admitted by the Secretary of
Labor. Later, the Secretary of Labor fined the plaintiff
in the sum of $1000 for bringing the alien to the United
States. Having paid under protest, plaintiff brought this
action to recover the amount of the fine upon the ground
that it was illegally imposed. Judgment dismissing the
complaint on the pleadings was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 65 F. (2d) 369. This Court granted
certiorari, in view of the conflicting ruling in the Ninth,
Circuit. Rederiaktiebolaget Nordstjernen v. United
States, 61 F. (2d) 808.
The fine was imposed under § 16 of the Immigration
Act of 1924, 43 Stat. 153, 163; 8 U.S.C. 216.1 The provision is explicit and the case falls directly within its terms.
The section makes it unlawful for a transportation com'This section provides:
"Sec. 16. (a) It shall be unlawful for any person, including any
transportation company, or the owner, master, agent, charterer, or
consignee of any vessel, to bring to the United States by water from
any place outside thereof (other than foreign contiguous territory)
(1) any immigrant who does not have an unexpired immigration visa,

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

pany to bring to the United States "any immigrant who
does not have an unexpired visa." The alien was a "nonquota immigrant" within the definition of the statute.
Id., § 4 (b), 8 U.S.C. 204 (b). If it appears to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Labor that "any immigrant
has been so brought," the transportation company must
pay to the collector of customs the sum of $1000, and in
addition, for the benefit of the immigrant, an amount
equal to that paid for his transportation. Section 16
further provides that "such sums shall not be remitted
or refunded" unless the Secretary of Labor is satisfied
that it could not have been ascertained, with reasonable
diligence, that the person so transported was an
immigrant.
Plaintiff insists that the admission of the alien took the
case out of the statute. Section 16 makes no such excepor (2) any quota immigrant having an immigration visa the visa in
which specifies him as a non-quota immigrant.
"(b) If It appears to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Labor
that any immigrant has been so brought, such person, or transportation company, or the master, agent, owner, charterer, or consignee
of any such vessel, shall pay to the collector of customs of the customs district in which the port of arrival is located the sum of
$1,000 for each immigrant so brought, and in addition a sum equal
to that paid by such immigrant for his transportation from the
initial point of departure, indicated in his ticket, to the port of
arrival, such latter sum to be delivered by the collector of customs
to the immigrant on whose account assessed ...
"(c) Such sums shall not be remitted or refunded, unless it appears
to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Labor that such person, and
the owner, master, agent, charterer, and consignee of the vessel, prior
to the departure of the vessel from the last port outside the United
States, did not know, and could not have ascertained by the exercise
of reasonable diligence, (1) that the individual transported was an
immigrant, if the fine was imposed ,for bringing an immigrant without
an unexpired immigration visa, or (2) that the ,individual transported was a quota immigrant, if the fine was imposed for bringing a
quota immigrant the visa in whose immigration visa specified him as
being a non-quota immigrant."

HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE v. U.S.
420

423

Opinion of the Court.

tion. But plaintiff invokes § 13 of the Act of 1924 (Id., 8
U.S.C. 213)2 which, after providing generally in sub-division (a) for the exclusion of an immigrant who is without
an unexpired immigration visa, creates a particular exception in sub-division (b) to meet the case of immigrants
"who have been legally admitted to the United States and
who depart therefrom temporarily." Immigrants of that
sort may be admitted to the United States "without being
required to obtain an immigration visa." The exception
is limited. It applies only "in such classes of cases and
under such conditions as may be by regulations prescribed." Acting under this authority, regulations were
prescribed, which provided for the admission of such im'Section 13 contains the following provisions:
"Sec. 13. (a) No immigrant shall be admitted to the United States
unless he (1) has an unexpired immigration visa or was born subsequent to the issuance of the immigration visa of the accompanying
parent, (2) is of the nationality specified in the visa in the immigration visa, (3) is a non-quota immigrant if specified in the visa in the
immigration visa as such, and (4) is otherwise admissible under the
immigration laws.
"(b) In such classes-of cases and under such conditions as may be
by regulations prescribed immigrants who have been legally admitted
to the United States and who depart therefrom tenporarily may be
admitted to the United States without being required to obtain an
immigration visa.
"(d) The Secretary of Labor may admit to the United States any
otherwise admissible immigrant not admissible under clause (2) or
(3) of subdivision (a) of this section, if satisfied that such inadmissibility was not known to, and could not have been ascertained by the
exercise of reasonable diligence by, such immigrant prior to the departure of the vessel from the last port outside the United States and
outside foreign contiguous territory, or, in the case of an immigrant
coming from foreign contiguous territory, prior to the application of
the immigrant for admission.
"(f) Nothing in this section shall authorize the remission or refunding of a fine, liability to which has accrued under section 16."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

migrants without an immigration visa, but only in case
they obtained a permit to reenter under the provisions
of § 10 of the Act of 1924. Id., 8 U.S.C. 210.' In authorizing such permits the evident purpose of § 10 was to
enable aliens who were domiciled here and contemplated
a temporary absence, to equip themselves with evidence
which would identify them and facilitate their reentry.
They could thus avoid the trouble and delay incident to
the procuring of an immigration visa from a consulate
abroad.4 The permit is prima facie evidence of the fact
that the alier1 is returning from a temporary visit. The
regulations prescribed under § 10 and § 13 (b) except
'Section 10 provides:
"Sec. 10. (a) Any alien about to depart temporarily from the
United States may make application to the Commissioner General
for a permit to reenter the United States, stating the length of his
intended abserce, and the reasons therefor. Such application shall
be made under oath, and shall be in such form and contain such
information as may be by regulations prescribed, and shall be accompanied by two copies of the applicant's photograph.
"(b) If the Commissioner General finds that the alien has been
legally admitted to the United States, and that the application is
made in good faith, he shall, with the approval of the Secretary of
Labor, issue the permit, specifying therein the length of time, not
exceeding one year, during which it shall be valid. The permit shall
be in such form as shall be by regulations prescribed and shall have
permanently attached thereto the photograph of the alien to whom
issued, together with such other matter as may be deemed necessary
for the complete identification of the alien.
- "(c) On good cause shown the validity of the permit may be
extended, for such period or periods, not exceeding six months each,
and under such conditions, as shall be by regulations prescribed.
"(f) A permit issued under this section shall have no effect under
the immigration laws, except to show that the alien to whom it is
issued is returning from a temporary visit abroad; but nothing in
this section shall be construed as making such permit the exclusive
means of establishing that the alien is so returning."
"See House Report No. 350, 68th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 18.

HAMBURG-AMERICAN LINE v. U.S.
420

Opinion of the Court.

aliens who have such permits from the requirement that
an immigration visa must be obtained. See Immigration
Rules of March 1, 1927; Rule 3, Subdiv. F, Pars. 1, 3;
Subdiv. I, Par. 2. Valid permits may be presented "in
lieu of immigration visas." Executive Order No. 4813
of February 21, 1928.
These provisions should be read in connection with § 16.
And as they make the possession of a permit to regnter
the equivalent ofan unexpired visa, the permit should be
taken to stand in place of the visa required by § 16. In
this view, where the returning alien has the prescribed
permit, no fine can be imposed. This conclusion, however, gives no aid to plaintiff as the alien in the instant
case had neither visa nor permit. We are unable to agree
with the content-ion that where a permit will suffice, § 16
must be regarded as having no application. As we have
said, we think the propet construction of § 16, taken with
§ 13, is that the permit is merely a substitute for the visa
and satisfies the requirement.
Plaintiff's argument that under § 13 a discretion is
vested in the Secretary of Labor to admit the returning
alien, and that the exercise of that discretion in his favor
tolls the fine, is met by the provision of sub-division (f)
of § 13: "Nothing in this section shall authorize the remission or refunding of a fine, liabiiity to which has accrued under § 16." Plaintiff urges that if the alien is
admitted, no liability for the fine can be said to have
"accrued." But § 16 does not make the liability turn
upon the admissibility or admission of the alien. Whatever may have been the effect of prior statutory provisions, § 16 of the Act of 1924 makes it clear that the occasion for the fine is the bringing in of the alien without
an unexpired visa or that which is prescribed as an equivalent. The question whether the Secretary of Labor had
authority to admit the alien in this instance need not be
considered, for if it were assumed that the Secretary under

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

426

Syllabus.

291 U.S.

§ 13 could admit the alien in his discretion, the fine would
still stand. We agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals
in the view that § 13 (f) "preserves the fine against any
discretionary admission."
Equally unavailing is the plea that the fine, as prescribed, is indivisible, and hence that no fine whatever
can be imposed where the alien is admitted and the transportation company, for that reason, has not been required
to return the passage money. It is true that the requirement of the payment of the passage money is for the
benefit of the alien and the reason for that part of the
penalty disappears on the alien's admission. But although admission in certain cases is contemplated by § 13,
liability to fine under § 16 is none the less maintained.
We think it follows that, in a case of admission, the fine
of $1000 can legally be imposed without requiring payment of the passage money and the fact that the latter
has not been required gives plaintiff no ground for
complaint.
Plaintiff was charged with knowledge of the statute
and brought in the alien in violation of its provisions.
Compare Elting v. North German Lloyd, 287 U:S. 324,
328, 329. The judgment is
Affirmed.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. AMERICAN CHICLE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 349.

Argued February 6, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

Under the Revenue Acts of 1921, 1924 and 1926, a corporation which
acquired all of the assets and assumed all of the liabilities of
another, and thereafter purchased in the open market some of the

latter's bonds at less than their face value, held to have realized

