CLARK'S FERRY CO. v. COMM'N.
Syllabus.

CLARK'S FERRY BRIDGE CO. v. PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION OF PENNSYLVANIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 274.

Argued January 18, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

In sustaining an order limiting the charges of a toll-bridge company,
against an attack based on the due process clause of the Fourtecnth
Amendment, held:
1. That a claim that a valuation of the property in ain earlier
proceeding was treated as res judicata in the proceeding in question
is not substantiated by the record. P. 233.
2. The reasonable cost of constructing the bridge is good evidence of its value at time of construction. P. 234.
3. The fact that, in constructing it, a contractor who obtained
the contract under competitive bidding and performed it expeditiously, spent more than the contract price, does not prove that
the value of the bridge, when constructed, was greater than that
price, in the presence of evidence attributing the loss to unusual
water conditions, with no evidence to show that it could not have
been prevented by reasonable precautions. P. 234.
4. It was reasonable to conclude that cost of reconstruction
at a later time would not be materially greater, the trend of
construction prices having been downward during the interim.
P. 236.
5. A corporation owning and operating a toll-bridge under franchise from a State in a location formerly occupied by a bridge
constructed by the State and forming a link in a state system of
highway communication previously established, is entitled to have
its real estate appraised for rate-making purposes at its fair
market value for all of its available uses and purposes, including
particular uses to which it may be specially adapted, but not to
have that value increased by virtue of the public use. Minnesota
Rate Case, 230 U.S. 352, 451. P. 237.
6. Opinion evidence that the cost of building the bridge at other
locations would be greater, because of variation in the width of
the river and conditions in its bed, did nt wi 'rant an increase
of fair market value. P. 238.
7. While it is recognized that accrued depreciation, as it may be
observed and estimated at a given time, and an appropriate

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellant.

291 U.S.

allowance of depreciation according to good accounting practice,
need not be the same, there is no rule which requires an allowance
to be made or continued which in the light of experience is shown
to be extravagant. Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 282
U.S. 133, 158. P. 239.
8. The amount that shall be allowed for annual depreciation
in fixing the charges of a public utility, is a question of fact.
In reviewing the findings of a state court, this Court is not required
to prescribe an invariable method of computation, and can not
overrule the state court's determination unless the results are seen
to be unconstitutional. P. 240.
9. In the present case, involving a single structure which deteriorates continuously from the moment of completion, annual allowances, during the life of the structure, which, with reasonable
interest, will provide a sum for its replacement, are not shown
to be inadequate. P. 238.
10. A rate of return of 7% of the fair value of the property, is
not shown to be confiscatory. P. 241.
11. Where an order fixes an adequate gross revenue for a tollbridge and tentative rates that may be modified at any time on
application to the rate-making body to conform to the results
of experience, the uncertainty whether, with the rates as initially
prescribed, the future traffic will bring in the prescribed revenue,
is not a ground for constitutional objection. P. 241.
108 Pa. Super. Ct. 49, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment affirming (with a modifeation) an order of the Public Service Commission prescribing the tolls to be charged by the appellant bridge company. The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania had declined
to review the case.
Mr. George Ross Hull for appellant.
It was error to apply the earlier valuation as res
judicata.
The earlier finding of fair value was based solely on
original cost of the bridge. The original cost to the company was less than the fair value at that time, and in
1930.
There is an element of value in the location of the real
estate and improvements,-the special value which the

CLARK'S FERRY CO. v. COMM'N.
227

229

Argument for Appellant.

real estate has because of its special adaptability to
bridge purposes, not franchise value. This special value
should have been included in the rate base.
Although the measure of fair value for rate-making
purposes may not in all cases correspond to the measure
of just compensation where private property is condemned, we think it is clear that where there is a special
value inherent in private property which can not be
taken by eminent domain without just compensation, the
use of that property value can not be taken by the public
without just compensation by a refusal to allow a return
upon it when it is devoted to public use. Spring Valley
Water Works v. San Francisco, 124 Fed. 574, 594.
The claim of appellant for addition of this special
value to the rate base is supported by the numerous decisions in condemnation cases, in which it is held that
the owner must be compensated for such value. Citing:
Boom Co. v. Patterson, 98 U.S. 403; Mitchell v. United
States, 267 U.S. 341, 344; and North Shore R. Co. v.
Pennsylvania Co., 251 Pa. 445, among other cases.
The proper method of determining the amount of accrued depreciation is by estimate 'of the actual depreciation observed by inspection, and not by the application
of mathematical computations based upon the age and
life of the property. McCardle v. Indianapolis Water
Co., 272 U.S. 400, 416.
The court below assumed that the public was entitled
to the interest accruing from year to year on the depreciation reserve, and concluded that the allowance of
$7,678 was sufficient because, when the interest was added,
the accumulated total in the depreciation reserve at the
end of fifty years would equal the fair value of the property. Whether the public or the appellant is entitled
to interest on the money paid ainually into the depreciation reserve, is a question of law; and if it has been

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument -for Appellant.

291 U.S.

erroneously decided and results in confiscation of appellant's property, this Court should correct it.
It is not inconsistent to base accrued depreciation upon
actual depreciation, and at the same time to base annual
depreciation upon theoretical depreciation where depreciation proceeds much more slowly during the early, than
during the late, years of the life of the property.
The purpose of an appraisal of the reproduction cost
new, less accrued depreciation, of a utility property, is to
arrive at the fair present value of the property. The appraisal is intended to reflect the actual, not the theoretical
value, at the time of the appraisal. When we turn to the
matter of annual depreciation, the question then is, what
is the just and equitable method of collecting from the
consumers during the life of the property a sum sufficient
to replace the property at'the end of its useful life, or to
return to the owners their capital at that time. The consumers throughout the life of the property receive service
from it, and it is assumed that they all receive the same
service and that it is equally valuable and satisfactory.
It is 'fair, therefore, to spread this depreciation charge
equally over the life of the property so that the consumers
in each year will bear the same proportion of this burden.
It is merely an accounting device designed to 'produce an
equitable distribution of depreciation charges over the life
of the property, and it has no necessary or direct relation
to the depreciated value of the property in any particular
year. United Railways V. West, 280 U.S. 234, 264.
The disparity between the accrued depreciation and the
total of the annual depreciation allowances in the early
years of the property is marked because in those years
actual depreciation lags.
The rate of return should be greater than seven per
cent. Bluefield Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 262 U.S.
'679, 692; United Railways v. West, 280 U.S. 234, 251-

CLARK'S FERRY CO. v. COMM'N.
227

Opinion of the Court.

252; Smith v. Illinois Bell Tel. Co., 282 U.S. 133, 160-161;
Wabash Valley Elec. Co. v. Young, 287 U.S. 488, 501;
Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 289 U.S. 287,
319.
The order makes the line of confiscation the maximum
which the company may receive. It is impossible for the
company to design a tariff which will produce "an annual
gross revenue of not more than $85,455," unless it estimates a margin so far below the line of confiscation that
no reasonable fluctuation of traffic will carry its revenue
into the forbidden territory. Such a tariff must necessarily result in confiscation.
The Attorney General of the State is even now suing
the company to recover penalties of $50 for every day the
-company had in effect its former tariff producing more
than the -allowed gross annual revenue.
Under the practical construction placed upon the coinmission's order by the Commission and the Attorney General, the company must, at its peril, devise a schedule of
rates which will not produce more than $85,455.
Mr. E. Everett Mather, Jr., with whom Mr. John Fox
Weiss was on the brief, for appellee.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The Superior Court of Pennsylvania affirmed (as modified) an order of the Public Service Commission of that
State prescribing a tariff of tolls to be charged on the
bridge of the Clark's Ferry Bridge Company over the Susquehanna River, 108 Pa. Superior Ct. 49; 165 Atl. 261.
The Company brings this appeal.
In its review of the facts the Superior Court states
that the bridge is comparatively new, having been completed in May, 1925. The bridge replaced and was con-

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

structed near the site of a wooden bridge which had been
acquired by the incorporators of the present Company.
In August, 1925, a complaint was filed with the Public

Service Commission alleging that the rates in effect were
unreasonable. By its order of June 8, 1926, the Commission found the fair value of appellant's property to be
$767,800 and that appellant was entitled to receive a
gross annual revenue of $85,905, on the basis of a return
of 7 per cent. on that fair value, after allowing operating expenses, taxes, an annual depreciation allowance,
and amortization of bond discount. An appeal from the
Commission's order was taken to the Superior Court, but
was withdrawn, and in February, 1927, the Company filed
a new tariff. The rates thus fixed were continued in effect
until July, 1929, when the Company made a voluntary
reduction. In January, 1930, the Commission began the
present proceeding on its own motion and, after hearings,
determined that the fair value of the appellants' property,
as of February 2, 1932, was still $767,800, and that the annual gross revenue which should. be allowed was $84,124
on the basis of a return of 7 per cent. on that fair value,
after allowing expenses and annual depreciation. 11 Pa.
P.S.C. 222.1 In this calculation, an item of $1,331 for
annual bond amortization was omitted. The Superior
Court held that it should be included and modified the
Commission's order accordingly, that is, so as to provide
that the allowabla gross )revenue should be $85,455.
The order oft the Public Service Commission, of February 2, 1932,
is as follows:
"That Clark's Ferry Bridge Company file, post and publish, effective thirty (30) days from date hereof, upon not less than one (1)
day's notice to the public and this Commission, a new tariff calculated
to produce an annual gross revenue of not more than $84,125.
"It is further ordered: That said tariff contain as tentative rates
intended to produce said gross annual revenue of $84,125, and effective

CLARK'S FERRY CO. v. COMM'N.
. 227

Opinion of the Court.

First. Appellant contends that the Commission.and the
Court treated the valuation in the Commission's decision
of 1926 as res judicata in the present proceeding. We do
not so construe the Commission's report or the Court's
opinion. The Commission received evidence as to alleged
changes in value and estimates of the cost of reproducing
the property. The Commission determined that "cost
conditions" had not "changed materially" since 1926.
and "upon a complete examination of the entire record
in both proceedings" the Commission found that the fair
value of the property was $767,800 as of February, 1932.
11 Pa.P.S.C. at p. 231. The Superior Court, in construing the action of the Commission, said: "When the subsequent complaints were filed, the Commission evidently
did not consider its previous findings as barring appellant
from raising the question of the fair value of its property
in 1930 and the proper allowances to be made for operating expenses and depreciation, but instituted an investigation, and, as already stated, admitted in evidence appellant's reproduction cost estimate and its supporting
testimony, and put in evidence the reproduction cost estiuntil further action by this Commission or the Company in conformity
with said determination of allowable gross revenue the following
charges:
"(1) A rate of 8 cents cash toll for all ordinary passenger automobiles and wagons now paying 10 cents.
"(2) A ticket without time limit salable at the rate of two for 15
cents for all such automobiles and wagons.
"(3) A 20-trip ticket non-transferable as between vehicles good any
time within thirty (30) days from date of issue and salable for one
dollar (Si) for all such automobiles and wagons.
"(4) Rates for all other types of vehicles as are now provided in
tariff P. S. C. Pa. No. 5.
"It is further ordered: That said Company file with this Commission monthly statements of income and operating expenses, showing
the number of vehicles passing over its bridge in each class of trafficas contained in its tariff."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

mate of one of its engineering staff, and the report of the
result of an examination of appellant's books and records."
The Court acted upon what it stated to be " the legislative mandate of the amendment of June 12, 1931, P.L.
530, that in an appeal of this character, we shall consider
the record and 'on [our] own independent judgment
determine whether or not the findings made and the valuation and rates fixed by the Commission are reasonable
and proper." It was in this view that the Court examined the "main controversies" between the parties. 108
Pa. Superior Ct. at p. 63.
Appellant attacks the finding of fair value upon the
grounds that it was based solely on the original cost of the
bridge property and that the amount paid by the appellant
for the bridge was less than its fair value at that time and
less than its fair value in 1930. It is not open to question
that the reasonable cost of the bridge is good evidence of
its value at the time of construction. And we have said
that "such actual cost will continue fairly well to measure the amount to be attributed to the physical elements
of the property so long as there is no change in the level
of applicable prices." McCardle v. Indianapolis Water
Co., 272 U.S. 400, 411; Los Angeles Gas Co. v. Railroad
Commission, 289 U.S. 287, 306. In this instance, as the
state court observed, the utility is not "a complicated system which has taken years to construct and enlarge, like
a waterworks, or gas works, or electric light plant, or
street railway system," but is " one structure, a reinforced
concrete bridge, built as it now is, without additions or
improvements." It appears that the bridge was built
under a contract awarded in June, 1924, after competitive
bidding, and was open to traffic in* May, 1925. It is
manifest that when the Cominission made its first decision
in June, 1926, the reasonable cost of the structure furnished a proper basis for determining its fair value. Of

CLARK'S FERRY CO. v. COMM'N.
227

Opinion of the Court.

the amount of the total valuation, at that time, of
$767,800, the sum of $592,253 was taken as the construction cost on the basis of the actual outlay which included
$566,301 paid to the contractor for the bridge and. approaches. Appellant then insisted, and still insists, and it
was shown, that the contractor sustained a loss. This
was said to amount to about $143,000, that is, on labor
and material, with overhead and depreciation of plant,
as distinguished from a loss of profits. The evidence as
to this was given by the contractor's auditor, who attributed the loss to an unusual flood. He said: "We
would have made money probably if things would have
gone along smoothly without any high water." The
Court accepted this explanation-the only one givenstating that "A sudden rise in the Susquehanna River
during the course of the work was responsible for the loss;
without it there would have been a fair profit." The
Court estimated that $20,000 additional, "spent on the
coffer-dam construction," would probably have obviated
the loss, adding-" We have increased the coffer-dam expense to cover this amount." Appellant complains that
this statement was based on speculation and has no support in the record. But appellant's case is no stronger.
The evidence gives no adequate ground for a conclusion
that with reasonable care the loss could not have been
prevented. The outstanding fact is that the contract
was let in the usual way to the lowest bidder and the
contractor received a substantial bonus ($22,050) for
finishing the work before the stipulated date. To sustain
the contention that the actual cost of the structure was
less than a reasonable cost at the time, it was necessary
for the appellant to give convincing proof. But such
proof is lacking. We find no satisfactory basis for holding that the fair value of the property in June, 1926, was
greater than $767,800 as it was then determined to be.

236

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

The question is whether the proof shows that the value
was greater in 1932. Appellant relies upon the estimate
of engineers as to the cost of reproduction new of the
physical property, as of September 1, 1929, together with
"all additional expenditures required over and above the
bare cost of the physical property, to put the bridge in
operation as an income-producing property." This estimate gave a total cost of reproduction new less depreciation (the estimate being exclusive of two other elements
of alleged intangible value described as "attached business value" and "location value ") of $875,644.30. The
Commission's engineer made a similar estimate based
upon prices prevailing during the last three months of
1930, which gave the cost of reproduction new, less depreciation, as $741,871. There were also charts showing the price trends for labor and materials for 1924 to
1930, inclusive. As summarized by the Court, the evidence shows "that in 1924, when the contract for the
construction of the bridge was awarded, construction
prices were reported as being 215% of the 1913 level;
that in September, 1929, when appellant's reproduction
cost estimate was made, they were 208% of the 1913
level; and that during the last three months of 1930 they
fell to about 198%." It would serve no useful purpose
to review the details of the estimates of reproduction cost.
The Court carefully considered them and properly concluded that the trend in prices from 1924-5, when the
bridge was built, to 1931-2, when the Commission determined its present fair value, was "downward rather than
upward," and that ""n the absence of proof that the
prices paid for the construction of the bridge were abnormally low there is no reason why in the short period
of six years after its completion, with a tendency of prices
for both material and labor being downward, there should
be a radical increase in the fair value of the bridge for
rate-making purposes." We agree with this conclusion.

CLARK'S FERRY CO. v. COMM'N.
227

Opinion of tbm Court.

It does not appear that the Cour& made any deduction
from the amount of the fair value as determined in 1926
by reason of the depreciation accrued during the succeeding years. There was controversy as to the extent of that
depreciation. Appellant's engineers allowed for the four
and one-half years which had elapsed to the time of their
survey the sum of $16,282. The Commission's engineer
estimated the accrued depreciation for six years at $41,403. The Court thought that the latter figure was
"nearer the actual accrued depreciation than the estimate of the Company," but the Court apparently treated
such accrued depreciation as largely off-set by the "extra
allowance, over the contractor's bid, for concrete and
coffer-dams." The Court decided that no harm was done
the appellant by leaving the fair value at $767,800.
A distinct question is raised by a claim for what is
called "the special value of location," in addition to the
value of the bridge property thus far considered. This
"special value" was put at $100,000. It was based, according to appellant's engineers, upon the advantage that
the location of the bridge has over any other point for
miles in either direction because the river is narrower and
the conditions of the river bed are more favorable. The
engineers made their estimate upon what they thought
one would be willing to pay for the present site, in preference to other sites in the vicinity, because of the additional cost of building a bridge elsewhere. It appears that
the bridge is located in a rural area. It was originally
constructed as a part of an extensive transportation system built by the Commonwealth in the first half of the
last century.. As the Court pointed out, the right to operate a toll bridge across the river at this point or elsewhere "is fundamentally the gift of the Commonwealth,
contained in appellant's franchise, and to attach a value

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

to it would be to capitalize the franchise contrary to the
provisions of the statute and the frequent decisions of the
courts." In building its new bridge, appellant took advantage of the traffic customs which had already been
established. In the determination of the value of its property appellant was entitled to be allowed the fair market
value of its real estate for all its available uses and purposes, which would include anyelement of value that it
might have by reason of special adaptation to particular uses. But it was not entitled to an increase over this
fair market value by virtue of the public use. Minnesota
Rate Cases, 230 U.S..352, 451, et seq. The evidence, so
far as it was properly addressed to the question of the
fair market value of appellant's real estate, tended to support the amount allowed in the estimate of fair value
reached by the Commission and the Court, and afforded
no basis for a higher valuation. There is no warrant for
an increase of fair market value by reason of opinions as
,to what it would cost to build a bridge elsewhere.
Vie conclude that appellant has failed to show confiscation because of the amount used as a rate base.
Second. Appellant complains that the amount prescribed for gross revenue is inadequate. Appellant contests the annual allowance for depreciation and the rate
at which the fair return is calculated.
The Commission fixed the annual depreciation allowance at $7,678 and the Court approved it. This amount
equals one per cent. of the fair value. Appellant contends
that the allowance should be 21/ per cent. of the value of
the depreciable property on the straight line basis. The
difference--on appellant's calculation of the fair valueamounts to $13,434. The Court approved the ruling of
the Commission.
There is no question, as to the fact of depreciation. It
was established, as respondent admits, that concrete

CLARK'S FERRY CO. v. COMM'N.
227

Opinion of the Court.

bridges deteriorate from the moment of their completion;
that there are chemical changes in their structure, absorptions of moisture and oxidation, both within the concrete
and in the re~nforcing iron covered by it, which cannot be
stopped in their process or their effects removed. With
this understanding, the question is as to the amount which
should annually be allowed which will serve adequately
to protect the investment from impairment due to age
and use. Testimony was given by one of appellant's
engineers that the average life of a concrete bridge was
from 30 to 50 years; by another, that the period for which
this bridge might be expected to remain useful was" from
40 to 80 years,"-he "would not figure on over 40."
Another testified that physically the bridge "might have
a life of 50 to 100 years." The Commission's engineer
estimated its life at from 40 to 50 years; for his computation he took an expectancy of 45 years. Respondent
urges that the annual allowance asked by appellant wts
plainly too large and contrasts it with appellant's claim
for accrued depreciation; that is, as the Court stated, appellant's engineers "allow an accrued depreciation for the
four and a half years elapsing to the time of their survey
of $16,282, but claim a yearly depreciation allowance
thereafter of $21,210." While it is recognized that accrued depreciation, as it may be observed and estimated
at a given time, and an appropriate allowance of depreciation according to 'good accounting practice, need not be
the same, there is no rule which requires an allowance to
be made or continued which in' the light of experience is
shown to be extravagant. Smith v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 282 U.S. 133, 158., After reviewing the testimony, and the methods of calculation which the parties
respectively advocated, the Court thus stated its conclusion: "It [the Commission] allowed $7,678 annually.
This sum set aside each year, with 4% simple interest will

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

in fifty years produce approximately $767,800, sufficient
to rebuild the bridge as now valued. The straight line
method advocated by the Company will in fifty years with
4% simple interest produce a fund twice as great as that
necessary to replace the bridge. The straight line method
is often used for short-lived structures, or plants of a
character that they can be restored from time to time to
the original condition of efficiency. . . It is not so fair
or equitable when applied to a long-lived structure or one
that is disintegrating gradually and continuously and not
capable of being restored to its original condition. The
company may not be required to apply the income received from the depreciation fund to make up any deficit
of operation (Board of Public Utility Comm'rs v. New
York Telephone Co., 271 U.S. 23), but it is not entitled
to an allowance, which exclusive of interest earned on the
fund, will be sufficient to rebuild the bridge, when its life
is done, but only to such an allowance as will with reasonable interest added make a fund sufficient to replace the
bridge when it requires replacement." In this view, the
Court thought the amount allowed by the Commission to
be "fair and reasonable in the circumstances." The
Court added that the Commission had included in its
allowance for operating expenses an item of $1,800 for
"maintenance."
The question of the amount which should be allowed
annually for depreciation is a question of fact. Georgia
Railway & Power Co. v. Railroad Commission, 262 U.S.
625, 633. In reviewing the findings of the state court we
are not required to enter a debatable field of fact and to
choose and prescribe an invariable method of computation. To justify the overruling of the determination of
the state court we' must be able to see that what has been
done will produce the result which the Constitution forbids. Considering the nature of the property, and upon
facts shown by the evidence, the state court has allowed

CLARK'S FERRY CO. v. COMM'N.
227

Opinion of the Cort.

appellant to reserve annually, and use for its own purposes, an amount which according to common experience
may be expected to produce a sum adequate to replace
the property on the expiration of its life. We find it impossible to say, from a constitutional standpoint, that another method should have been employed or a greater
amount allowed.
Appellant also insists that it is entitled to a rate of return of nine per cent. upon the fair value of its property.
The Commission and the court decided that seven per
cent. was sufficient. We perceive no constitutional
ground for complaint on that score. Wabash Valley Electric Co. v. Young, 287 U.S. 488, 502; Los Angeles Gas &
Electric Corp. v. Railroad Commission, 289 U.S. 287,
319, 320.
Third. The final attack is on the form of the Commission's order. The Commission fixed the amount of the
annual gross revenue and then prescribed a tentative
schedule of rates.2 Appellant says that it is obvious that
no one can tell in advance how many vehicles of different
tariff classifications will pass over the bridge in a year and
what annual gross revenue will be produced by a given
schedule of rates. But, as the prescribed rates are expressly stated to be tentative, there is no ground for
assuming that the Commission will reject an application
to make such changes in the schedule as experience may
show to be necessary in order to produce the stipulated
revenue. There is nothing in the order which requires
that the test period should be a year or any definite time.
From the statements at the bar it appears that appellant
has not put the tentative schedule in effect land has made
no application to the Commission for a change in the
schedule. If the allowance of gross revenue is adequate,
as it has been found to be, there is no basisfor complaint
'See Note 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.6.

because of a schedule of rates which on application may
be appropriately modified.
The judgment of the Superior Court of Pennsylvania. is
Affirmed.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA v.
CALIFORNIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 347. Argued January 12, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.
A State is wnout power to levy a license tax in repect of the selling
and delivery of goods on a military reservation included within thc
exterior limits of the State but over which the full legislative authority has been ceded to the United States by an Act of the State
Legislature. P. 244.
218 Cal. 123; 22 P. (2d) 2, reversed.

from the reversal of a judgment in favor of the
Oil Company in an action brought by the State to collect
a a excise tax together with a penalty. The judgment of
7eversal directed the trial court to enter judgment for the
tate as prayed.
APPEAL

Mr. Vincent K. Butler, Jr., with whom Messrs. Oscar
Sutro and Felix T. Smith were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General of California, and Mr. U. S. Webb, Attorney General, for
appellee.
MR. JUSTICE, MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By Ch. 267, Statutes 1923, as amended (Chs. 716 and
795, Statutes 1927), the State of California undertook to
lay a license tax upon every distributor for each gallon
of motor vehicle fuel "sold and delivered by him in this
State" with certain exceptions not here important.

