OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

In Singleton v. Cheek, supra, 496, we held that, when
the insured and designated beneficiary die successively
intestate, the commuted amount of the installments not
accrued when the beneficiary dies is to be paid to the
estate of the insured for distribution to his heirs and that
the heirs are to be determined as of the time of his death
in accordance with the laws of the state where he resided
and are not limited to the class of beneficiaries designated by the Act. The question whether insurance money
paid to the estate is subject to claims of creditors was not
involved in that case. The purpose of the exemption,
§ 454, is to safeguard to the insured soldier and the beneficiary payments made under the policy to them or for
their benefit.. Spicer v. Smith, 288 U.S. 430, 434. Upon
the death of the insured, the father whom he had designated as beneficiary was by the Bureau awarded monthly
payments to continue until death.

The language of the

statute limits the exemption to " any person to whom an
award is made." It is clear that the statute does not
extend the exemption beyond the insured and beneficiary.
And, as said by the state supreme court after referring
to our decision in Singleton v. Cheek, "it cannot be held
now that exemption of the fund survives both insured
and beneficiary for benefit of the heirs of the former."
189 Minn. 383, 388.
Affirmed.
GLOBE INDEMNITY CO. v. UNITED STATES TO
THE USE OF STEACY-SCHMIDT MANUFACTURING CO., INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 419.

FOR THE

Argued February 13, 14, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.

The Heard Act, 40 U.S.C., § 270, requires that to secure the performance of a government construction contract and payment for
labor and material furnished by subcontractors, the contractor

GLOBE INDEMNITY CO v. U.S.
476

Counsel for Parties.

shall furnish a bond, and provides that if no suit is brought by the
United States within six months from "the completion and final
settlement" of the contract, a subcontractor may sue on the bond,
provided the action be commenced within one year after "the
performance and final settlement" of the contract and not later.
Held:
1. That where the administrative officer having the work in
charge (in this case the Secretary of the Interior) has found that
the contract has been performed and has stated the amount due
the contractor, and approved his claim therefor, this is "final
settlement" within the meaning of the statute, although the officer, instead of ordering payment, refer the claim "for direct settlement," to the General Accounting Office. P. 481.
2. Under the Budget and Accounting Act, the function of the
General Accounting Office in auditing and settling claims against
the Government, is the same as that which, before the Act, was
exercised by the Accounting Office in the Treasury Department.
P. 479.
3. A construction of the Heard Act as not fixing the time of
"final settlement" by the final settlement in the department having charge of the contract but as subjecting it to change by subsequent action of the Comptroller General, would be out of harmony with administrative practice, inconvenient of operation, and
inconsistent with the obvious purpose of the statute to protect
the interests of laborers and materialmen. P. 483.
66 F. (2d) 302, reversed.

CERTIORARi, 290 U.S. 618, to review a judgment which
reversed a judgment for the Globe Indemnity Company
in an action against it as surety on a bond securing a
construction contract with the United States. The bond
was given under the Heard Act, and the plaintiff relied
on its provisions securing claims for material and labor.
Mr. Frederic L. Ballard, with whom Messrs. Robert
Brigham and Morris Cheston were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Samuel W. Cooper for respondent.
By leave of Court, Mr. Edward H.

Cushman filed a

brief on behalf of the Truscon Steel Co., as amicus curiae.

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion 6f the Court.

291 U.S.

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent brought this suit in the District Court for
Eastern Pennsylvania to recover on a bond given by petitioner, as surety, to secure the performance of a government construction contract as provided by the Heard
Act, which requires the contractor to furnish a surety
bond to the government as obligee, conditioned upon satisfactory performance of the contract and payment by the
contractor for labor and material furnished by subcontractors for the construction. Act of August 13, 1894, 28
Stat. 278; as amended, Act of February 24, 1905, 33 Stat.
811, and March 3, 1911, 36 Stat. 1167; 40 U.S.C.A., § 270.
In authorizing suits on the bond, the Heard Act provides:
" If no suit should be brought by the United States
within six months from the completion and final settlement of said contract, then the person or persons supplying the contractor with labor and material shall . . .have
a right of action . . . provided that . . . it . . . shall be
commenced within one year after the performance and
final settlement of the said contract and not later . . ."
The contract was for materials for use in the construction of an irrigation project and was entered into on behalf of the United States by the Department of the Interior under the provisions of the Reclamation Act of June
17,1902,32 Stat. 388,389; 43 U.S.C.A., §§ 391,419. Under
date of June 16, 1927, the First Assistant Secretary of the
Department of the Interior forwarded the claim of the contractor to the General Accounting Offire "for direct settlement," by a letter which stated that the contract had
been completely performed and that, after deducting a
stipulated amount as liquidated damage for delay in performance, the balance due was $8,889.30. The letter concluded: "The claim has received administrative examination, is approved for $8,889.30 and I recommend that
the amount found due be paid " from a designated ap-

GLOBE INDEMNITY CO. v. U. S.
476

Opinion of the Court.

propriation. Four months later, on October 26, 1927, the
General Accounting Office issued its formal certificate of
settlement confirming the balance found due by the Department of the Interior. The claim was paid by the
Treasurer of the United States on November 5, 1927.
The defense to the present suit on the bond was that it
had been begun October 17, 1928, more than one year
after performance and final settlement of the contract.
The sole question presented is whether "final settlement,"
within the meaning of the Heard Act was effected by the
action of the Interior Department of June 16, 1927, or
only by the certificate of the General Accounting Office of
October 26th. Judgment for the petitioner by the District Court was reversed by the Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit, 66 F. (2d) 302, which held that the Budget
and Accounting Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 23, 31 U.S.C.A.,
§ § 41, et seq., had transferred the authority to make settlements of such contracts from the Department of the Interior to the General Accounting Office, that consequently
final settlement did not occur until the action of the General Accounting Office upon the contractor's claim, and
that the suit brought within a year was in time. Certiorari was granted to resolve an alleged conflict between
this decision and that in Consolidated Indemnity & Insurance Co. v. W. A. Smoot & Co., 57 F. (2d) 995; compare Lambert Lumber Co. v. Jones Engineering & Construction Co., 47 F. (2d) 74.
The Budget and Accounting Act set up the General
Accounting Office under the direction of the Comptroller
General of the United States. Section 304, 31 U.S.C.A.,
§ 44, transferred to it the powers and duties of the Comptroller of the Treasury and of the six Auditors of the
Treasury Department, and authorized the heads and disbursing officers of executive departments to apply for the
decision of the General Accounting Office upon any question involving a payment to be made by them, which de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion df the Court.

291 U.S.

cision, it is declared, shall govern such office in passing
upon the account. And by § 305, 31 U.S.C.A., § 71, it
is provided that "all claims and demands whatever by the
government of the United States or against it . . . shall
be settled and adjusted in the General Accounting Office."
But none of these duties imposed on the Comptroller General were new. Like provisions applicable to the Comptroller of the Treasury or the Auditors of the Treasury
Department are found in § 8 of the Act of July 31 1894,
28 Stat. 207, and in Rev. Stat. § 236. The chief change
effected by the Budget and Accounting Act was that it
transferred powers lodged with officers of the Treasury
Department to the Comptroller General and made his
office independent of the executive branch of the government. But the function which he exercises in auditing
and settling claims against the government is precisely
that which was previously exercised by the Accounting
Office in the Treasury Department. Before, as after, the
Budget and Accounting Act, claims against the United
States might be paid from the proper appropriation upon
approval of the authorized officer of the department concerned, without previous settlement or audit by the accounting office. Before, as after, department heads or disbursing officers might ask the accounting office to render
a decision upon a question involving payment to be made
by them, in order to protect the disbursing officers and
their bondsmen from liability for a payment unauthorized
by law.1
'The history, procedure and function of the Accounting Office of
the Treasury before 1921 and of the General Accounting Office are
discussed in detail in Smith, The General Accounting Office (Institute
for Government Research, Service Monograph No. 46); Willoughby,
The Legal Status and Functions of the General Accounting Office
(Institute for Government Research, Studies in Administration).
The settlement and adjustment of claims against the government
receive particular treatment in Willoughby, c. IV.

GLOBE INDEMNITY CO. v. U. S.
476

Opinion of the Court.

Prior to the enactment of the Budget and Accounting
Act this Court had decided Illinois Surety Co. v. United
States to the use of Peeler, 240 U.S. 214.. There the
Treasury Department had directed that a voucher be
issued for the balance which it found to be due upon a
contract entered into with the Department for the construction of a public building. The Treasury Auditors
apparently did not pass upon the claim before payment.
The issue presented was whether suit by a subcontractor
upon a bond given under the Heard Act was premature
when begun six months after the date of the Department's determination, but less than six months after
payment. It was held that it was not; that the term
"final settlement" in the Heard Act was not intended
to denote payment, but had been used to describe an administrative determination of the amount due upon completion of the contract. Similar determinations made by
other departments before the enactment of the Budget
and Accounting Act have repeatedly been held to constitute final settlement within the meaning of the Heard
Act. Pederson v. United States for the use of Washington Iron Works, 253 Fed. 622; United States for use of
R. HaoA Electric & Mfg. Co. v. Title Guaranty & Surety
Co., 254 Fed. 958; Mandel v. United States for use of
Wharton & N. R. Co., 4 F. (2d) 629; Antrim Lumber Co.
v. Hannan, 18 F. (2d) 548.
In the light of this history we cannot say that Congress,
merely by transferring the function previously performed
by the Treasury to the General Accounting Office, intended to disturb this construction of the statute or to
make final administrative determinations in the executive
departments any the less final settlements within the
meaning of the Heard Act than they had been before.
Consolidated Indemnity & Insurance Co. v. W. A. Smoot
& Co., supra.

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion ot the Court.

291 U.S.

Respondent does not directly challenge this conclusion.
It does not assert that the General Accounting Office can
alone make a final settlement of a government contract,
or deny that in some circumstances the authorized officer
of the department concerned may make it, but it insists
that where, as in this case, the claim, in advance of payment, is referred to the General Accounting Office, its decision alone is controlling and is therefore the final setlernent which, under the Heard Act, fixes the period
within which suit by a subcontractor may be brought.
It is true, as respondent points out, that the question
thus raised is different from that involved in the earlier
cases, where payment preceded audit by the accounting
office, and from that in the Peeler case. The contract in
the Peeler case was under the administrative control of
the Treasury Department and when that case arose and
was decided the power to settle contracts, now lodged
with the Comptroller General, was in the Treasury Department. Thus the question presented there was not
whose was the authority to make the final settlement, but
at what stage the decision of the department, authorized
to make it, became final. Here the question is whether
the decision of the Comptroller General supplanted that
of the Department of the Interior, which concededly would
have been a final settlement if there had been no action
by the Comptroller General before payment. This question must be resolved in view of the purpose sought to
be accomplished by the Heard Act and of the administrative procedure for the settlement, auditing and payment
of claims against the government.
The Heard Act relates only to bonds given as surety
for those entering into contracts for the construction
of public buildings or works. It serves the dual purpose
of securing to the United States the protection of a surety

GLOBE INDEMNITY CO. v. U. S.
476

Opinion of the Court.

bond conditioned upon the performance of the cbntract,
and of protecting those who furnish labor or material to
the contractor by the further condition that the contractor
shall pay for such labor and material. The statute provides that subcontractors may intervene in any suit
brought on the bond of the government, but if the government does not bring suit it makes the time of completion
and final settlement of the contract the crucial date for
measuring the period within which subcontractors are
permitted to bring suit on the bond.
The policy of the statute to afford protection to the
interests of laborers and material men would not be
effected unless they were allowed to bring suit with reasonable promptness after the United States has determined that it will have no claim on the bond and unless
the date of final settlement which fixes the time within
which suit is permitted could be ascertained with reasonable certainty and finality. A determination, made and
recorded in accordance with established administrative
practice by the administrative officer or department having the contract in charge, that the contract has been completed and that the final payment is due, fulfills these
requirements. See Illinois SuretyCo. v. United States
to the use of Peeler, supra. Such was the determination
made here by the Interior Department, which alone was
in possession of the knowledge and data necessary to
prompt decision. The Department., in forwarding the
claim, made every determination prerequisite to payment.
See Illinois Surety Co. v. United States to the use of
Peeler, supra; Mandel v. United States, supra. It declared that the contract had been completely performed;
it stated the balance due after deducting the stipulated
amount for liquidated damages for delay; it declared that
the claim had received administrative examination and

484

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

was approved for the balance found due; and it recorded
its findings. Such a determination would be "final settlement" for purposes of the Heard Act if payment had
preceded action by the Comptroller General. Consolidated Indemnity & Ins. Co. v. W. A. Smoot & Co., supra.
If, as respondent maintains, this determination may be
supplanted by a subsequent settlement by the Comptroller General, the subcontractors could never be certain
that the departmental determination would mark the period of limitation, and suits begun within the statutory
period measured from this determination might have to
be discontinued and begun anew if the departmental head
or disbursing officer should later refer the claim to the
Comptroller General. A construction so out of harmony
with administrative practice, so inconvenient in operation
and so inconsistent with the obvious purpose of the statute
is not to be entertained.
No such consequences either to the government or to
subcontractors can result from treating the departmental
settlement as the final one within the meaning of the
Heard Act. There is no more occasion for delaying suit
on the bond because of the contingency that the departmental determination may not be approved by the Comptroller General in his auditing of the accounts, than
because of the contingency that any administrative determination may not be approved by the courts. 'See
Illinois Surety Co. v. United States to the use of Peeler,
supra, 221; Consolidated Indemnity & Ins. Co. v. W. A.
Smoot & Co., supra, 997.
A different question would be presented if the department concerned declined to settle the claim and referred
it to the General Accounting Office for settlement. See
Lambert Lumber Co. v. Jones Engineering & Const. Co.,
supra.
Reversed.

