MURRAY v. GERRICK & CO.

315

Counsel for Parties.

MURRAY v. JOE GERRICK & CO.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 308. Argued January 19, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.
1. Where a tract within a State has been acquired by the United
States for a Navy Yard, with the consent of the state legislature,

and the legislature has ceded to the United States the State's jurisdiction over it saving only the right to serve process, a state law
Isubsequently passed to regulate rights and remedies for death by
negligence can have no operation over the tract save as it may be
adopted by Congress. P. 318.
2. The Act of February 1, 1928, provides that in case of death of one
person by neglect or wrongful act of another within a place subject
to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States within the exterior
boundaries of a State, "such right of action shall exist as though
the place were under the jurisdiction of the State "; and that " in
any action brought to recover on account of injuries sustained
in any such place the rights of the parties shall be governed by the
laws of the State within the exterior boundaries of which it may
be." Held:
(1) That the Act does not adopt a state Workmen's Compensation Law by which claims are settled without recourse to actions
and, paid from a state insurance fund collected from employers;
nor does it adopt, separately, a provision of such a law allowing
actions to be brought against employers who fail to contribute to
such fund. P. 318.
(2) By force of the federal Act, a death statute of the State of
Washington confining the right of action to the personal representative, became applicable in the Puget Sound Navy Yard, superseding an early state statute, in force when that reservation was
established, by which either heir or personal representative might
sue. P. 319.
172 Wash. 365; 20 P. (2d) 591, affinmed.
CERTIORARI, 290 U.S. 615, to review the affirmance of a

judgment sustaining a demurrer to a declaration in an
action for death by wrongful act.
Mr. M. M. Doyle argued the cause, and Mr. Wm. Mar-

tin filed a brief, for petitioner,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Messrs. Roszel C. Thomsen and Walter L. Clark argued the cause, and Messrs. Stephen V. Carey, J. Speed
Smith, and Henry Elliott, Jr., filed a brief, for respondents.
MR. JusTIC,'ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Louis H. Murray, a steel erector, died as the result of
a fall from a crane which was being erected by his employers, the respondents, in the Puget Sound Navy Yard
at Bremerton, Washington. The petitioner, his widow,
brought action, on her own and her minor child's behalf,
alleging the decedent's death was caused by the respondents' negligence. The trial court sustained a demurrer to
the declaration, holding the action was not maintainable
by the widow and daughter as beneficiaries under the
Washington Workmen's Compensation Act, since that act
was not in force in the Navy Yard; and if it were considered a suit for death by wrongful act, the applicable
state statute required that it be instituted by the personal
representative of the decedent. The petitioner, although
she was also administratrix, refused to amend and claim
in virtue of her status as such, and stood upon the declaration. A judgment in favor of respondents was affirmed
by the Supreme Court.'
In the petition for certiorari it is asserted that the state
courts misconstrued the Act of Congress of February 1,
1928. This court consequently has jurisdiction. The
question of the bearing of the federal Act upon the right
to maintain the action requires the statement of additional facts.
By a statute passed in 1891 2 the State consented to the
acquisition of a tract of land by the United States for a
navy yard or other specified uses, and ceded jurisdiction
1172 Wash. 365; 20 P. (2d) 591.
'Laws 6f 1891, p. 31; Remington's Revised Statutes, § 8108.

MURRAY v. GERRICK & CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

over the same to tLe federal government, retaining only
concurrent jurisdidtion for the service of civil and criminal process issued under the authority of the State. Pursuant to this consent, the United States acquired what
is now known as Puget Sound Navy Yard. At that time
a state statute was in force permitting the heirs or personal representatives of one dying as a result of negligence
to maintain suit against the wrongdoer.'
In 1911 Washington adopted an industrial insurance
law or workmen's compensation act which required every
employer engaged in extrahazardous occupation to report
the work undertaken by him and to pay to a state insurance fund certain sums measured by the payroll for the
work. The act abolished all actions by employees against
employers for injury in extrahazardous occupations, and,
in lieu thereof, conferred upon the injured workman the
right to be paid from the fund; gave a similar right to
named beneficiaries in case of an employee's death, and
further provided that if an employer should fail to report
or to pay to the state fund, the employee, or his beneficiaries in case of death, might sue the employer for
negligence.'
In 1917 the prior statute relating to suits for death by
wrongful act was superseded by an act vesting the right
to sue in the personal representative of the decedent.'
February 1, 1928, an Act of Congress ' became effective
entitled "An Act Concerning actions on account of death
or personal injury within places under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United.States." It enacts: " That in the
case of the death of any person by the neglect or wrongful act of another within a national park or other place
§ 8, Code of 1881; Remington & Ballinger's Ann. Code, § 183.
'Remington's Revised Statutes, §§ 7673, 7674, 7676, 7679.
'Remington's Revised Statutes, §§ 183, 183-1."
'Act of February 1, 1928, c. 15, 45 Stat. 54; U.S. Code Title 16,
§ 457.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States,
within the exterior boundaries of any State, such right of
action shall exist as though the place were under the
jurisdiction of the State ... ; and in any action brought
to recover on account of injuries sustained in any such
place the rights of the parties shall be governed by the
laws of the. State within the exterior boundaries of which
it may be."
The petitioner, believing this Act of Congress made
the state compensation law applicable to the Navy Yard,
sued on behalf of her child and herself as beneficiaries, alleging the respondents had failed to report the work and
make the payments required by the compensation act.
The state Supreme Court held that the compensation
act does not apply to territory beyond the authority of
the state legislature. But it also held that act could not
have any force in the Navy Yard, since it was adopted
many years after the cession of jurisdiction by the State
and the consequent acquisition of the tract ,by the United
States. In this the court was clearly right. After the
effective date of the State's cession the jurisdiction of the
federal government was exclusive (Fort Leavenworth R.
Co. v. Lowe, 114 U.S. 525, 537; United States v. Unzeuta,
281 U.S. 138), and laws subsequently enacted by the state
were ineffective in the Navy Yard. Arlington Hotel Co.
v. Fant, 278 U.S. 439. Congress may, however, adopt
such later state legislation as respects territory under its
jurisdiction, and the petitioner claims it did so adopt
the compensation act by the Act of February 1, 1928.
This argument overlooks the fact that the federal statute
referred only to actions at law, whereas the state act abolished all actions at law for negligence and substituted a
system by which employers contribute to a fund to which
injured workmen must look for compensation. The right
of action given upon default of the employer in respect of
his obligation to contribute to the fund is conferred as

MURRAY v. GERRICK & CO.
315

Opinion of the Court.

a part of the scheme of state insurance and not otherwise. The Act of Congress vested in Murray no right to
sue the respondents, had he 'survived his injury. Nor did
it authorize the State of Washington to collect assessments for its state fund from an employer conducting
work in the Navy Yard. If it were held that beneficiaries
may sue, pursuant to the compensation law, we should
have the incongruous situation thatthis law is in part
effective and in part ineffective within the area under the
jurisdiction of the federal government. Congress did not
intend such a result. On the contrary, the purpose was
only to authorize suits under a state statute abolishing
the common law rule that the death of the injured person
abates the action for negligence.
The petitioner urges that if the Act of Congress failed
to extend the workmen's compensation law to the Navy
Yard, she is, nevertheless, entitled to maintain her action
in behalf of herself and her child as heirs of the decedent,
because the Code of 1881 ( supra) was in effect at the date
of cession and remained applicable until Congress altered
it. She relies upon the principle that when political jurisdiction and legislative power over territory are transferred from one sovereign to another, the municipal law
of the place continues in force until abrogated by the
new sovereign. Chicago, Rock Island& PacificRy. Co. v.
McGlinn, 114 U.S. 542; Vilas v. Manila, 220 U.S. 345,
357. But the weakness of her position is that by the Act
of February 1, 1928, Congress did abrogate the Code provision as respects the Navy Yard by enacting that "such
right of action shall exist as though the place were under
the jurisdiction of the State," and "in any action brought
to recover on account of injuries sustained in any such
place the rights of the parties shall be governed by the
laws of the State within the exterior boundaries of which
it may be." This plainly means the existing law, as declared from time to time by the state; and Washington,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

by the Act of 1917, has substituted for the action, given
in the alternative to heirs or personal representatives by
the Code of 1881, one vested exclusively in the personal
representative. It results that the petitioner could sue
only under the Act of 1917.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

MANHATTAN PROPERTIES, INC. v. IRVING
TRUST CO., TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY.*
CERTIORARI

No. 505.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
SECOND CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

Argued January 10, 1934.-Decided February 5, 1934.

1. The claim of a landlord for future rents based on a covenant to
p'ay rent in a lease terminated by reintry on the bankruptcy of the
tenant, is not a provable debt under § 63 (a) of the Bankruptcy
Act. P. 332.
So held in view of the great weight of judicial authority construing that section and similar provisions of earlier Acts, and in
view of the legislative history of the subject.
2. The fact that a provision of a statute which has received a settled
construction from federal courts has remained unaltered notwithstanding that Congr6ss has repeatedly amended the statute inother
respects, is persuasive that the construction accords with the legislative intention. P. 336.
3. Sections 73-76, added to the Bankruptcy Act by the Act of
March 3, 1933, were enacted to permit extensions and compositions
not theretofore possible, for individuals only; and the clause of
§ 74 (a) providing that "A claim for future rent shall constitute a
proval le debt and shall be liquidated under § 63 (b) of this Act,"
is to be related to this novel procedure and not taken as an amendment of § 63 (a) or as declaratory of its meaning. P. 336.
4. A covenant by a tenant to indemnify the landlord for loss of rent
he may suffer during the residue of the term after reintry by the
*Together

wifl No. 506, Brown et al. v. Irving Trust Co., Trustee

in Bankruptcy, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.

