OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Statement of the Case.

291 U.S.

CITY BANK FARMERS TRUST CO., EXECUTOR, v.
SCHNADER, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF PENNSYLVANIA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 84.

Argued November 9, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

1. Where the state law permits an action at law for recovery of a tax
paid under protest, the taxpayer may pursue the same remedy in
the federal court, if the requisite diversity of citizenship and amount
in controversy are present. 'P. 28.
2. Existence of a statutory remedy to test the validity of a tax appraisal by appeal to a particular state court, in which the party
opposed to the taxpayer will be the State itself, will not affect the
equity jurisdiction of the federal court to enjoin, since such a proceeding, even if regarded as an action at law, would be confined to
the state court, and would not be cognizable by the federal court,
either originally or by- removal. P. 29.
3. A proceeding in a state court, on appeal from a tax appraisal,
wherein the court has jurisdiction to determime not only the valuation but also the validity of the tax, and which is tried as a case
between the taxpayer and the State as adversary parties, and results in a final judgment appealable to a higher court, is to be classified as a judicial, rather than an administrative, proceeding. P. 29.
4. To such a proceeding the principle that administrative remedies
under state laws must be exhausted before an injunction against
state officers is sought in the federal courts on constitutional grounds,
does not apply. P. 34.
5. A bill to enjoin the imposition and collection of'a state inheritance
tax as beyond the constitutional power of the State, held not premature, although the assessment had not yet been completed, it appearing clearly, by the allegations of the bill, that the defendant
state taxing officials believed the tax valid and would proceed to
impose it if not restrained. P. 34.
Reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, of three
judges, dismissing a bill to enjoin the Attorney General
and the Secretary of Revenue of the Commonwealth of

CITY BANK CO. v. SCHNADER.
24

Opinion of the Court.

Pennsylvania from imposing and collecting an inheritance
tax on personal property left by a New York decedent,
which, as the plaintiff executor averred, had no taxable
situs in the Commonwealth.
Mr.Henry S. Drinker, Jr., witb' whom Messrs. Leslie
M. Swope, H. Gordon McCouch, and Wolcott P. Robbins.
were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Wm.A. Schnader, Attorney General of Pennsylvania,. with whom Mr. Harris.-C.Arnold, Deputy Attorney
General, was on the brief, for appellees.
The District Court properly dismissed the bill for want
of jurisdiction. Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U.S. 521;
Keokuk & Hamilton Bridge Co. v. Salm, 258 U.S. 122;
Bohler v. Callaway, 267 U.S. 479; Polter v. Investors
Syndicate, 286 U.S. 461.
By leave of Court, Mr. Set9 T. Cole filed a brief on
behalf of the Tax Commission of New York as amicus
curiae.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The appellant, by a bill filed in the District Court for
Eastern Pennsylvania, sought to enjoin the appellees, who
are officials of the Commonwealth of- Pennsylvania, from
attempting to impose and cqllect an inheritance'tax. ,bliversity of citizenship and an amount in controversy exceeding, exclusive of interest, $3,000, were averred. The
bill sets forth thatThomas B. Clarke, a citizen and resident of the state of New York, died there in 1931ileaving
a will under which appellant qualified as executor; that
at and before the time of Clarke's death there was on exhibition in Pennsylvania a collection of lpaintings owned
by him, of the estimated market value at the date of his
death of $714,750; that these paintings had been loaned

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

to the Pennsylvania Museum and School of Industrial
Art, a non-profit corporation, so that they might be exhibited in the museum of that institution; that the loan
was negotiated orally and was for an indeterminate, period,
but the pictures were t9 be returned to Clarke at any
time upon his request. The bill then quotes the Act of
Assembly of Pennsylvania 1whereby a transfer inheritance
tax of a specified percentage of value is laid upon transfers, by will or the intestate laws, of property located
within the Commonwealth, from a decedent not a resident of the Commonwealth at the time of his death;
describes the procedure for the collection of the tax,
namely, that the Department of Revenue, whenever occasion may require, shall appoint an appraiser to appraise
the value of the property, if subject to tax; appraisement
shall be made after notice to the interested parties; the
appraiser shall report his valuation in writing to the Department of Revenue; whereupon that. Department is
required to give notice to all interested parties, and any
person not satisfied with the appraisement may appeal to
the Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County, which
may determine all questions of valuation and the liability
of the appraised estate for the tax. The bill recites the
appointment of an appraiser, who duly notified the ap-.
pellant of the proposed date of his appraisement; the
making of- a return, under protest, pursuant to instructions of the appellee Schnader, enumerating as property
within the Commonwealth at the decedent's death the
seventy-nine portraits in question, and denying taxable
situs or taxability of the property in Pennsylvania; a
hearing by the appraiser, who referred the question of
taxability to the Department of Justice, of which, the
appellee Schnader is the head, and pending a decision by
him postponed the appraisement indefinitely; and re'Act of June 20, 1919, PL.521; 72 Purdon's Penna. Stats. § 2301,
as amended by Act of June 22, 1931, P1. 690.

CITY BANK CO. v. SCHNADER.
24

Opinion of the Court.

peated requests for an immediate determination of tax
liability, in response to which the appellee Schnader orally
advised the appellant its claim of nontaxability in Penn-.
sylvania would be denied. The bill charges that if the
statute be construed to impose an inheritance tax upon
the paintings merely because they were temporarily
within the Commonwealth at the time of the decedent's
death, it is unconstitutional as depriving the appellant
of property without due process and denying equal protection of the laws, in contravention of the Fourteenth
Amendment; and if the statute be construed as not applying to the property, the threatened appraisal, assessment
and collection by the defendants will unconstitutionally
deprive the appellant of property without due process and
deny it equal protection. It further charges that the
threat of appraisement, assessment and collection, and the
unlawful failure and refusal of the appellee Metzger to
issue a waiver of taxes on behalf of the Commonwealth,
have caused and are causing irreparable injury by .interfering with the administration of the estate in the Surrogate's Court of New York, preventing distribution, compelling the executor to maintain large cash reserves at a
low rate of interest to cover a possible Pennsylvania tax
and costs of litigation; and also that the threatened tax
constitutes a possible lien and a cloud upon the title of
the plaintiff, interfering with the sale of the paintings as
directed by the will. The bill avers the absence of any
adequate remedy at law.
A temporary injunction was issued,'4n answer was filed
admitting the facts stated, and a statutory court of three
judges was convened and heard the case on the pleadings
and an agreed statement which is immaterial to the questions presented.
The answer asserted, and the court found, that the appellant had an adequate remedy at law, as it could appeal
from the appraisement, when made, to the Dauphin

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion '6f the Court.

291 U.S.

County court, which has jurisdiction to pass on both the
amount of the tax and the legality of itsimposition. The
bill was therefore dismissed for want of equity.
1. It is conceded that neither the statutes of Pennsylvania nor the decisions of its courts permit an action
at law for the recovery of a tax paid under protest. If
that procedure were permissible in the state courts, the
appellant could pursue the same remedy in a federal court,
there being the requisite diversity of citizenship and
amount in controversy. Matthews v. Rodgers, 284 U.S.
521. Under the state law the only remedy afforded one
who has paid a tax is an application for refund to the
Board of Finance and Revenue, an administrative body;
but the action upon the claim is final and no court may
review or set aside the Board's decision.2 The District
Court, however, was of opinion that the taxpayer's right
of appeal from the appraisal to the Court of Common
Pleas of Dauphin County, constituted such a remedy at
law as ousted the jurisdiction of a federal court of equity.
The Act of Assembly 8 requires the appointment of an
appraiser whose duty is to report his appraisement in
writing to the Department of Revenue, which must then
give immediate notice to all parties interested, and continues: "Any person not satisfied with the appraisement
S. . may appeal within thirty days to the court of common pleas of Dauphin County, on paying gr giving security to pay all costs together with whatever tax shall be
fixed by the court. Upon such appeal, the court may
determine all questions of valuation, and the liability of
the appraised estate for such tax, subject to the right of
appeal to the Supreme or Superior Court."
"Act of April 9, 1929, P.L. 343, Art. V, § 503; 72 Purdon's Penna.

Stats. § 503.
'Act of April 9, 1929, P.L. 343, § 1202; .72 Purdon's Penna. Stats.

§ 1202.

CITY BANK CO. v. SCHNADER.
24

Opinion of the Court.

The appeal must be entered in a state court specifically
designated by the statute, and is thus not an ordinary
action at law, but a statutory proceeding. The Commonwealth has conditioned the right to implead it, upon resort to a forum of its choice. The taxpayer cannot, therefore, though a non-resident, appeal from the appraisement to a federal court. Moreover, in such cases, upon
the perfecting of an appeal, the Commonwealth becomes
the adverse party to the litigation in the common pleas
court (Commonwealth v. Taylor, 29A Dauph. Co. Rep'r
(Pa.) 102; Commonwealth v. Taylor, 32 Dauph. Co.
Rep'r (Pa.) 207); and this fact would prevent removal of
the case from the Dauphin County court to a federal
court; Judicial Code, § 24, as amended; 28 U.S.C. § 41
(1); Judicial Code, § 28, as amended; 28 U.S.C. § 71; for
the State is not a citizen within the purview of these statutes which define the jurisdiction of the federal courts and
permit a removal to them (Stone v. South Carolina, 117
U.S. 430; Postal Telegraph Co. v. Alabama, 155 U.S. 482;
Arkansas v. Kansas & Texas Coal Co., 183 U.S. 185), nor
is the controversy one arising under the laws of the
United States. Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank,
152 U.S. 454; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v, Nebraska,
251 Fed. 279. As the statutory remedy, if it be treated
as an action at law, would lie only in the state court and
is not cognizable by the federal courts, either as an original action or by removal, its existence cannot oust federal equity jurisdiction. Smyth v. Ames, 169 U.S. 466,
516; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Osborne, 265 U.S. 14, 16;
Risty v. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 270 U.S. 378, 388;
Matthews v. Rodgers, supra, p. 526.
2. Since the Dauphin County court is empowered,
upon appeal from the action of the appraiser, to determine all questions, including both valuation and liability
for the tax, the contention is made that its function is at

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion 6f the Court.

291 U.S.

least in part administrative, and a suit for injunction
may not be entertained by a federal court prior to the
decision of the state court. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast
Line, 211 U.S. 210; Porter v. Investors Syndicate, 286
U.S. 461. The statutes under consideration in those eases
delegated legislative power of regulation to an administrative body and vested a revisory power in a court. As
has repeatedly been held, the action of the court in such
a matter is legislative rather than judicial, so that one
who has not pursued the legislative process to a conclusion cannot turn to a court of equity for relief from a regulatory order which is not the final word of the constituted state authority. But other decisions make it clear
that, while the action of the appraiser in a case like the
present is purely administrative, the function of the court
upon appeal is judicial in character, if, when the case is
brought into the court, the Commonwealth becomes plaintiff and the taxpayer defendant, and the action is tried as
an ordinary action, resulting in a judgment, which is final
and 'binding on the parties, subject only to appeal to a
higher state court, as permitted by the Act. This renders
the proceeding judicial, and gives it the character of a
suit or. action at law.
In Boom Co. v. Patterson,98 U.S. 403, it appeared that
the state law authorized the Boom Company to exercise
the right of eminent domain. The statutes required an
application to a court for the appointment of commissioners to appraise the value of the land to be taken.
Should the award of the commissioners prove unsatisfactory to the company or to the land owner, an appeal lay
to the district court, where the cause was to be entered
by the clerk as a case upon the docket, the owner of the
land being designated plaintiff and the corporation seeking condemnation defendant. The act required the court
to proceed to "hear and determine said case in the same

CITY BANK CO. v. SCHNADER.
24

Opinion of the Court.

manner as other cases are heard and determined in said
court*" Of this procedure it was said, p. 406:
"The proceeding in the present case before the commissioners appointed to appraise the land was in the
nature of an inquest to acertain its value, and not a suit
at law in the ordinary sense of those terms. But when it
was transferred to the District Court by appeal from the
award of the commissioners, it took, under the statute of
the State, the form of a suit at law, and was thenceforth
subject to its ordinary rules and incidents. The point
in issue was the compensation to be made to the owner
of the land; in other words, the value of the property
taken. No other question was open to contestation in
the District Court."
To the same effect see Searl v. School District No. 2,
124 U.S. 197; Mason City & Ft. Dodge R. Co. v. Boynton,
2O4 U.S. 570.
In Delaware County v. Diebold Safe Co., 133 U.S. 473,
the question was as to a proceeding for the collection of
a claim against the county. The statute directed that any
person having a-claim against a county should file it with
the county auditor, who should present it to the board
of commissioners, and they were required to examine the
claim and allow it in whole or in part. No court was to
have original jurisdiction of any claim against a county,
but if the claimant felt aggrieved by the decision of the
commissioners he might appeal to the circuit court of the
county. Thereupon the auditor was to make a transcript
of the proceedings before the board and deliver it to the
clerk of the court. The appeal was to be docketed like
other cases pending in the court, heard, and tried as an
original cause. This court said, p. 486, that although the
proceedings of the county commissioners are in some
respects assimilated to proceedings before a court, and
the commissioners' decision, if not appealed from, is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion 6f the Court.

291 U.S.

subject to collateral attack, yet the proceedings are in the
nature not of a trial inter partes, but of an allowance or
disallowance, by officers of the county, of a claim against
it. The court added that "the trial in the Circuit Court
of the county was 'the trial' of the case, at any time
before which it might be removed into the Circuit Court
of the United States, ... "
Chicot County v. Sherwood, 148 U.S. 529, involved procedure for the collection of county bonds. State legislation declared that a county could not be sued or proceeded
against in any court except as in the act provided. Demands against the county were to be presented to the
county court for allowance or rejection. From the order
of that court appeals were'allowed as provided by law.
If in any such appeal the judgment of the county court
was reversed, the reversal was to be certified by the
superior court to the county court, which was required to
enter it as its own judgment. This court said, p. 532:
"If, however, the presentation of a demand against the
county, duly verified, according to law, to the county court
thereof, 'for allowance or rejection' is not the beginning
of a suit or does not involve a trial inter partes, it is then
only a preliminary proceeding to a suit or controversy
which, by the appeal of either side, is or may be carried to
an appellate court, before which there is an actual trial
between the parties interested. The right to maintain
this revisory trial in the state court . . . will be sufficient
to maintain a like suit by original process in a federal
court where the requisite diverse citizenship exists."
In Smith v. Douglas County, 254 Fed. 244, it appeared
that a Nebraska statute imposed a tax on inheritances, for
the benefit of the county of the decedent's residence, at a
stipulated rate upon the appraised value of the property.
The method of levying the tax was, that the county jddge
appointed an appraiser to report the valuation to the

CITY BANK CO. v. SCHNADER.
24

1 33

Opinion of the Court.

judge, who then fixed the value and the amount of tax
and gave notice to all interested parties. Anyone dissatisfied with the judge's finding might appeal within sixty
days to the county court upon filing bond to cover costs
and the tax which might be fixed by the court. The statute provided that county courts should have jurisdiction
"to hear and determine all questions in relation to all
taxes arising under this article." It will be noted how
closely the procedure resembles that prescribed with
respect to the tax in controversy. It was held that the
proceeding was ex parte until it reached the county court;
but thereafter became a controversy inter partes, and the
court's action in determining all questions in relation to
the tax was not merely administrative, but judicial.
If the Dauphin County court were by the act of Assembly granted only the right to revise the valuation of the
appraiser, and precluded from considering any other question', its proceedings would be purely administrative, and
the contention that the appellant had failed to pursue to
the end its administrative remedy would be sound (Upshur County v. Rich, 135 U.S. 467), at all events where the
valuation is a subject of controversy.
- The court below relied upon Keokuk & Hamilton
Bridge Co. v. Sa/m, 258 U.S. 122, where a bill to enjoin
collection of a state tax was held to lack equity. That
case is, however, distinguished by the fact that before
resorting to any court the taxpayer could have appealed
to the board of review to correct the assessment of which
he complained, and the record failed to show that he
had pursued the administrative remedy so afforded him
(p. 125).
The Acts of Assembly of Pennsylvania direct the Department of Revenue to collect, and the Attorney General
to bring suit for,- the amount of the tax, if it is not paid
within one year of assessment, If, therefore, the appel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

lant should omit to take an appeal to the Dauphin County
common pleas court, the assessment would become final
and the appellant liable to suit for the amount of the tax.'
As the Commonwealth is the plaintiff in the action, the
cause could not be removed, f6r reasons already stated'
We are of opinion that upon the making of the appraisement the administrative procedure is at an end, and
the appellant can thereafter resort to a federal court of
equity to restrain further action by the state officers if
in violation of constitutional rights.
3. The question, then, is whether the bill was preinaturely filed. In view of what has been said, the appellant's cause of action in equity will not, strictly speaking,
arise until an appraisement is made and certified to the
Department of Revenue and notice of the fact is given
appellant. However, in view of the allegations of the
bill, we are not inclined to hold the suit premature. The
bill charges that the Secretary of Revenue has refused to
issue a waiver of tax, and that the Attorney General has
notified the appellant and the State's appraiser the property is subject to the tax, and the appellant's claim for
exemp'tion ,will be denied. The Commonwealth's law officers plainly intend to perform what they consider their
duty, and will, unless restrained, cause the assessment
and imposition of the tax. The action the legality of
which is challenged thus appears sufficiently imminent
and certain to justify the intervention of a court of equity.
Compare Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U.S. 553,
592. Moreover, no purpose would be served by dismissing
the bill, if, as we hold, the moment the proposed assessment is made another suit may be instituted in the federal
court.
'Act of April 9, 1929, P.L. 343, § 203 (h), § 1406; 72 Purdon's Pa.
Stats. § 203 (h), § 1406.

FREULER v. HELVERING.

35

Syllabus.

24

.The decree of the District Court is reversed and the
cause remanded with instructions to reinstate the bill
and proceed to a hearing upon the merits.
Reversed.
FREULER, ADMINISTRATOR, v. HELVERING,
COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE. *
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 129.

Argued December 8, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

1. Under § 219 of the Revenue Act of 1921, the fiduciary of a trust
estate, in computing the net income for the taxable year, makes the
same deductions from gross income that are allowed in cases of
individual income, including deductions for depreciation; those
parts of the net income which, by the instrument or order governing the distribution, are distributable during the tax year -to beneficiaries, are specified in the fiduciary's return, but they are income
of the beneficiaries as of the time of their receipt by the fiduciary
and are returnable by and taxable to the beneficiaries, whether distributed to them or not; if, by mistake, the fiduciary omits to
make proper deductions for depreciation, aid so overstates the net
income of the estate and overpays a beneficiary, the excess received
by the latter is no part of his income and need not be included in
his return. P. 40.
2. A decree of a state court having jurisdiction of a trust, determining
that annual deductions for depreciation of the trust property should
have been taken from gross income before making distributions to
*Pursuant

to stipulation, the decisions in the following cases are

reversed on the authori.ty of this case: Nos. 130 and 131, Freuler,
Administrator,v. Helvering, on writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, No. 139, Marguerite T. Whitcomb
v. Helvering; No. 140, Charlotte A. W. Lepic v.Helvering; No. 141,
Marie M. E. G. T. Whitcomb v. Helvering; Nos. 142 and 143, Charlotte A. W. Lepic v. Helvering; and No. 144, Marie M. E. G. Whitcomb v. Helvering, on writs of certiorari to the Court of Appeals of
the District of Columbia.

