UNITED STATES v. CHAMBERS.
205

Syllabus.

plaintiff to recover was left to be determined by the law
of the State."
We are of the opinion that the second paragraph of the
complaint set forth a cause of action under the Kentucky
statute and, as to this cause of action, the suit is not to
be regarded as one arising under the laws of the United
States. In view of the diversity of citizenship and the
residence of petitioner, the District Court of the Northern District of Indiana had jurisdiction.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals did not consider any
questions save those relating to the jurisdiction of the
District Court, the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals will be reversed and the cause remanded to that
court with directions to consider such other questions as
may be presented by the appeal.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. CHAMBERS ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No,. 659.

Argued January 16, 17, 1934.-Decided February 5i 1934.

1. The Court takes judicial notice of the fact that the ratification
of the Twenty-first Amendment of the Constitution, which repealed
the Eighteenth Amendment, was consummated on December 5.
1933. P. 222.
2. Upon the ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment, the Eighteenth Amendment became inoperative, and neither the Congress
nor the courts could give it continued validity. P. 222.
3. The National Prohibition Act, to the extent that its provisions
rested upon the grant of authority to Congress by the Eighteenth
Amendment, immediately fell with the withdrawal by the people
of the essential constitutional support. P. 222.
4. Prosecutions for violations of the National Prohibition Act in a
State, pending when the Eighteenth Amendment was repealed,
can not be continued. P. 222.

218

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for the United States.

291 U.S.

5. In case a statute is repealed or rendered inoperative, no further
proceedings can be had to enforce it in pending prosecutions unless competent authority has kept it alive for that purpose. P. 223.
6. Section 13 of the Revised Statutes, providing that penalties and
liabilities incurred under a statute are not to be extinguished by
its repeal unless the repealing act shall so expressly provide, etc.,
is inapplicable where the statute imposing the penalties is rendered
inoperative by the power of the people exercised through a constitutional amendment. P. 223.
7. Instances in which Congress has provided for the transfer of cases
pending in territorial courts as an incident to the exercise of its
power to admit new States into the Union, present no analogy
to a case in which the power of Congress over the subject-matter
has been withdrawn by a constitutional amendment. P. 225.
8. Prosecution for crimes is but an application or enforcement of
the law, and if the prosecution is to continue the law must
continue to vivify it. P. 226.
9. It is a continuing and vital principle that the people are free
to withdraw authority which they have conferred and, when withdrawn, neither Congress nor the courts can assume the right to
continue to exercise it. P. 226.
5 F.Supp. 153, affirmed.

APPEAL under the Criminal Appeals Act from a judgment quashing an indictment for conspiracy to violate the
National Prohibition Act, and for possessing and transporting intoxicating liquor in violation of that Act.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder was on the brief, for the United States.
The common law rule, if applicable, would seem to
cover all pending cases, in trial and appellate courts. As
was said in Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U.S.
503, 506, the rule even "requires the reversal of a judgment which was right when rendered." Green v. United
States, 67 F. (2d) 84, was an instance of dismissal by an
appellate court. In the court below, conspiracies punishable under § 37 of the Criminal Code were affected by
the rule. Indeed, this rule would effect an "automatic
amnesty for crimes." Pickett v. United States, 216 U.S.

UNITED STATES v. CHAMBERS.
217

Argument for the United States.

456, 459. Since it is merely a rule of construction, it
should yield to another, if legal principles permit.
Decisions interpreting the Eleventh Amendment are
not applicable, Hollingsworth v. Virginia, 3 Dall. 378,
due to the marked precision with which the Eleventh
Amendment was framed.
In transferring power from the United States to the
States, the Twenty-first Amendment brought about a
situation comparable to that which arose when Territories which had been subject to federal control entered
the Union as States. For that reason, United States v.
Baum, 74 Fed. 43, is much like the case at bar. Pickett
v. United States, 216 U.S. 456, 459. Distinguishing:
Moore v. United States, 85 Fed. 465; Sonora v. Curtin,
137 Cal. 583, 589.
The court below should not have applied the common
law rule to the Twenty-first Amendment, as such rule is
opposed to present public policy, but it should have applied the principles of the statutory rule. The Constitution must be "interpreted in the light of the common
law, the principles and history of which were familiarly
known to the framers of the Constitution." United
States v. Wong Kim Ark, 169 U.S. 649, 654. Since the
first ten Amendments embody guarantees and immunities
inherited from our English ancestors, they are to be interpreted in a like manner. Cf. Robertson v. Baldwin,
165 U.S. 275, 281. Clearly, this Court has always sought
and applied those principles of law which were familiar
and controlling at the time when the constitutional provision, or Amendment, in question was adopted.
What principle of law governing the effect of repeals
was most familiar and most controlling throughout the
United States in 1933 when the Twenty-first Amendment
was adopted?
After United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, Congress
had promptly passed "An Act prescribing the form of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for the United States.

291 U.S.

enacting and resolving clauses of Acts and Resolutions of
Congress, and rules for the cohstruction thereof," (February 25, 1871, c. 71, 16 Stat. 431) which is now § 13 of the
Revised Statutes, changing the common law rule of construction.
It was a salutary change, United States v. Barr, 4
Sawyer 254, and has stood for sixty-two years as the rule
of federal jurisprudence and policy.
Why should the courts be powerless to punish for crimes
committed under a valid criminal law, merely because
for satisfactory reasons the statute has been repealed?
There is no difference in principle between repeal by
statute and by a constitutional amendment. The one is
passed by Congress while the other is proposed by Congress and adopted by three-fourths of the States. The
intent of the framers is in both cases the same. If the
courts have power to punish for offenses committed before
the repeal when the repeal is by statutory enactment, the
courts haveequal power to punish for like offenses when
the repeal is by constitutional provision.
It is only necessary that the old statute be repealed in
order to make effective § 13, Rev. Stats., unless otherwise
provided in the repealing Act. The repeal may be express
by statute, or it may be by implication by the enactment
of a statute inconsistent with the old one; or it may be a
repeal by implication by a constitutional amendment inconsistent with the old statute, or by withdrawing from
the legislative arm of the Government the power to enact
the old statute, as in this case; or it may be by an enactmnent creating a new State whereby the authority of Congress to make acts criminal in the jurisdiction of the new
State is taken away.
See Great Northern Ry. Co. v. United States, 208 U.S.
452, 465.
The rule of construction contained in R.S. , 13 has becoie firmly entrenched. Hertz v. Woodman, 218 U.S.

UNITED STATES v. CHAMBERS.
Opinion of the Court.

217

205. Had Congress intended to reverse this long-established policy, it would have framed the Amendment accordingly.
Canada and England and many of the States have provisions similar to § 13 R.S. In the year 1933, when the
Twenty-first Amendment was proposed and adopted, the
almost universal rule throughout the United States was
that the repeal of a criminal law did not debar prosecution
for crimes committed before its adoption.
This Court, in Funk v. United States, 290 U.S. 371, rejected an aged rule of the common law on the competency
of witnesses, even though it had not, been changed by
Congress. The reasoning is pertinent here.
If the old rule of construction should be applied in this
case, then the spectacle would be presented of some joint
offenders escaping punishment while the others are serving terms or have paid fines for the same offense.
See Levitt, "Repeal of Penal Statutes and Effect on
Pending Prosecutions," Am. Bar. Assn. Jour., Nov., 1923,
pp. 715-721.
Messrs. Z. I. Walser and William M. Hendren, with
whom Messrs. Don A. Walser and Leland Stanford were
on the brief, for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
Claude Chambers and Byrum Gibson were indicted in
the District Court for the Middle District of North Carolina for conspiring to violate the National Prohibition
Act, and for possessing and transporting intoxicating
liquor contrary to that'Act, in Rockingham County in
that State. The indictment was filed on June 5, 1933.
Chambers pleaded guilty but prayer for judgment was
continued until the December term. On December 6,
1933, the case was called for trial as to Gibson. Chain-

222'

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion Of the Court.

291 U.S.

bers then filed a plea in abatement and Gibson filed a
demurrer to the indictment, each upon the ground that
the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment of the Federal
Constitution deprived the court of jurisdiction to entertain further proceedings under the indictment. The
District Judge sustained the contention and dismissed
the indictment. The Government appeals. 18 U.S.C.
§ 682.
This Court takes judicial notice of the fact that the
ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment 1 of the Constitution of the United States, which repealed the Eighteenth Amendment, was consummated on December .5,
1933. Dillon v. Gloss, 256 U.S. 368. Upon the ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment, the Eighteenth
Amendment at once became inoperative. Neither the
Congress nor the courts could give it continued vitality.
The National Prohibition Act, to the extent that its provisions rested upon the grant of authority to the Congress
by the Eighteenth Amendment, immediately fell with the
withdrawal by the people of the essential constitutional
support. The continuance of the prosecution of the defendants after the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment,
for a violation of the National Prohibition Act alleged to
have been committed in North Carolina, would involve
an attempt to continue the application of the statutory
"Article XXI.of the Amendments of the Constitution provides as
follows:
"Section 1. The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United States is hereby repealed.
"Sec. 2. The transportation or importation into any State, Territ6lr,& possession of the United States for delivery or use therein

of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby
prohibited.
"Sec. 3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been
ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the
several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years
from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress."

UNITED STATES v. CHAMBERS.
217

Opinion of the Court.

provisions after they had been deprived of force. This
consequence is not altered by the fact that the crimes in
question were alleged to have been committed while the
National Prohibition Act was in effect; The continued
prosecution necessarily depended upon the continued life
of the statute which the prosecution seeks to apply. In
case a statute is repealed or- rendered inoperative, no further proceedings can be had to enforce it in pending prosecutions unless competent authority has kept the.statute
alive for that purpose.
The decisions of this Court afford abundant illustration
of this principle. In Yeaton v. United States, 5 Cranch
281, 283, where the statute under which a ship had been
condemned in admiralty had expired while the case was
pending on appeal, the Court held that the cause was
-to be considered as if no sentence had been pronounced.
Chief Justice Marshall said that "it has long been settled,
on general principles, that after the expiration or repeal
of a law, no penalty can be enforced, nor punishment inflicted, for violations of the law committed while it was
in force, unless some special provision be made for that
purpose by statute." Chief Justice Taney observed in
Maryland v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co., 3 How. 534, 552:
"The repeal of the law imposing the penalty, is of itself
a remission." In United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88,
95, the Court thus stated the principle applicable to
criminal proceedings: "There can be no legal conviction,
nor any valid judgment pronounced upon conviction, unless the law creating the offence be at the time in existence. By the repeal the legislative will is expressed that
no further proceedings be had under the Act repealed."
See, also, Norris v. Crocker, 13 How. 429, 440; Gulf, C.
& S. F. Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U.S. 503, 506.
The Government endeavors to avoid the application of
this established principle by invoking the general saving provision enacted by the Congress in relation to the

224

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

repeal of statutes. That provision is to the effect that
penalties and liabilities theretofore incurred are not to be
extinguished by the repeal of a statute "unless the repealing act shall so expressly provide," and to support
prosecutions in such cases the statute is to be treated as
remaining in force. R.S., § 13; 1 U.S.C. § 29.2 But this
provision applies, and could only apply, to the repeal of
statutes by the Congress and to the exercise by the Congress of its undoubted authority to qualify its repeal
and thus to keep in force its own enactments. It is a
provision enacted in recognition of the principle that, unless the statute is so continued in force by competent
authority, its repeal precludes further enforcement. The
Congress, however, is powerless to expand or extend its
constitutional authority. The Congress, while it could
propose, could not adopt the constitutional Amendment
or vary the terms or effect of the Amendment when
adopted. The Twenty-first Amendment contained no
saving clau~e as to prosecutions for offenses theretofore
committed. The Congress might have proposed the
Amendment with such a saving clause, but it did not.
The National Prohibition Act was not repealed by Act
of Congress but was 'rendered inoperative, so far as authority to enact its provisions was derived from the Eighteenth Amendment, by the repeal, not by the Congress
but by the people, of that Amendment. The Twentyfirst Amendment gave to the Congress no power to extend
the operation of those provisions. We are of the opinion
that in such a case the statutory provision relating to the
repeal of statutes by the Congress has no application.
'The text of the provision is as follows: "The repeal of any statute
shall not have the effect to release or extinguish any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under such statute, unless the repealing
Act shall so expressly provide, and such statute shall be treated as
still remaining in force for the purpose of sustaining any proper action
or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture, or
liability."

UNITED STATES v. CHAMBERS.
217

Opinion of the Court.

The Government cites decisions involving changes from
territorial to state governments and recognizing the authority of the Congress to provide for the transfer of
pending cases from territorial courts to the courts established within the new States. Pickett v. United States,
216 U.S. 456; United States v. Baum, 74 Fed. 43; compare, Moore v. United States, 85 Fed. 465. These decisions present no analogy to the instant case. As the
function and jurisdiction of territorial courts would
naturally terminate when a territory becomes a State,
some provision for the transfer of pending. business is
necessary and the Congress has adequate authority to
that end. The Constitution authorizes the Congress to
admit new States into the Union (Art. IV, § 3, par. 1),
and, also, to provide in the case of crimes, not committed
within any State, for trial at such place as tlie Congress
may direct (Art. III, § 2, par. 3). The Congress, in admitting a new State, may thus transfer "jurisdiction in
respect of local matters to state courts and of civil and
criminal business and jurisdiction arising under the laws
of the United States to courts of the United States when
they should come into existence." Pickett v. United
States, supra,at p. 459; Forsyth v. United States, 9 How.
571, 576, 577. In such cases, jurisdiction for the trial of
pending criminal actions depends upon the provisions of
the enabling Act. Id. Provision in the enabling Act for
the vote of the people of the territory, as a condition
precedent to the establishment of the new State and the
adoption of its constitution, does not alter the fact that
the State is admitted to the Union by the Congress under
its constitutional authority. In the instant case, constitutional authority is lacking. Over the matter here in
controversy, power has not been granted but has been
taken away. The creator of the Congress has denied to
it the authority it formerly possessed and this denial, being unqualified, necessarily defeats any legislative attempt to extend that authority.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

Finally, the argument is pressed that the rule which is
invoked is a common law rule and is opposed to present
public policy. We are told that the rule of construction,
evidenced by the saving provision adopted by the Congress in relation to the repeal of statutes, is firmly entrenched and attention is directed to corresponding statutory provisions in most of the States. But these state
statutes themselves recognize the principle which would
obtain in their absence. The question is not one of public
policy which the courts may be considered free to declare,
but of the continued efficacy of legislation in the face of
controlling action of the people, the source of the power
to enact and maintain it. It is not a question of the
developing common law. It is a familiar maxim of the
common law that when the reason of a rule ceases the
rule also ceases. See Funk v. United States, 290 U.S. 371.
But, in the instant case, the reason for the rule has not
ceased. Prosecution for crimes is but an application or
enforcememt of the law, and if the prosecution continues
the law must continue to vivify it. The law, here sought
to be applied, was deprived of force by the people themsclv.es as the inescapable effect of their repeal of the
Eighteenth Amendment. The principle involved is thus
not archaic but rather is continuing and vital,-that the
people are free to withdraw the authority they have conferred and, when withdrawn, neither the Congress nor the
courts can assume the right to continue to exercise it.
What we have said is applicable to prosecutions, including proceedings on appeal, continued or begun after the
ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment. We are not
dealing with a case where final judgment was rendered
prior to that ratification. Such a case would present a
distinct question which is not before us.
The judgment dismissing the indictment is
Affirmed.

