502

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

291 U.S.

N.EBBIA v. NEW YORK.
APPEAL

FROM THE COUNTY COURT OF MONROE
NEW YORK.

No. 531.

COUNTY,

Argued December 4, 5, 1933.-Decided March 5, 1934.

1. As a basis for attacking a discriminatory regulation of prices,
under the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
the party complaining must show that he himself' is adversely
affected by it. P. 520.
2. A regulation fixing the price at which storekeepers may buy milk
from milk dealers, at a higher figure than that allowed dealers in
buying from producers, and allowing dealers a higher price than
it *allows storekeepers in sales to consumers, held consistent with
the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, because
of the distinctions between the two classes of merchants. P. 521.
3. As part of a plan to remedy evils in the milk industry which
reduced the income of the producer below cost of production and
threatened to deprive the community of an assured supply of milk,
a New York statute sought to prevent destructive price-cutting by
stores which, under the peculiar circumstances, were able to buy
at much lower prices than the larger distributors and to sell without
incurring delivery costs; and, to that end, an order of a state
board acting under the statute fixed a minimum price of ten cents
per quart for sales by distributors to consumers and of nine cents
per quart for sales by stores to consumers. Held that, as applied
to a storekeeper, the regulation could not be adjudged in conflict
with the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, since,
in view of the facts set forth in the opinion, it appeared not to be
unreasonable or arbitrary or without relation to the purpose of the
legislation. Pp. 530 et seq.
4. The use of private property and the making of private contracts
are, as a general rule, free from governmental interference; but
they are subject to public regulation when the public need requires.
P. 523.
5. The due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment conditions
the exertion of regulatory power by requiring that the end shidl be
accomplished by methods consistent with due process, that the
regulation shall not be -unreasonable, arbitrary or capricious, and
that the means selected shall have a real and substantial relation
to the object sought to be attained. P. 525.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

503

Syllabus.

6. It results that a regulation valid for one sort of business, or in
given circumstances, may be invalid for another sort, or for the
same business under other circumstances, because the reasonableness of each regulation depends upon the relevant facts. P. 525.
7. The power of a State to regulate business in the public interest
extends to the control and regulation of prices for which commodities may be sold, where price regulation is a reasonable and appropriate means of rectifying the evil calling for the regulation.
Pp. 531 et seq.
8. There is no principle limiting price regulation to businesses which
are public .utilities, or which have a monopoly or enjoy a public
grant or franchise. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U.S. 113. P. 531.
9. To say that property is " clothed with a public interest," or an
industry is "affected with a public interest," means that the property or the industry, for adequate reason, is subject to control for
the public good. Pp. 531-536.
10. There is no closed class or category of businesses affected with a
public interest; and the function of courts in the application Of
the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments is to determine in each
case whether circumstances vindicate the challenged regulation as
a reasonable exertion of governmental authority or condemn it as
arbitrary or discriminatory. P. 536.
11. Decisions denying the power to control prices in businesses found
not to be "affected with a public interest" or "clothed with a
public use" must rest finally upon the basis that the requirements
of due process were not met because the laws were found arbitrary
in their operation and effect. P. 536.
12. So far as the requirement of due process is concerned, and in the
absence of other constitutional restriction, a State is free to adopt
whatever economic policy may reasonably be deemed to promote
public welfare, and to enforce that policy by legislation adapted
to its purpose. The courts are without authority either to declare
such policy, or, when it is declared by the legislature, to override
it. If the laws passed are seen to have a reasonable relation to a
proper legislative purpose, and are neither arbitrary nor discrimi-natory, the requirements of due process are satisfied, and judicial
determination to that effect renders a court functus officio. P. 537.
13. The legislature is primarily the judge of the necessity of such an
enactment; every possible presumption is in favor of its validity,
and though the court may think the enactment unwise, it may
not be annulled unless palpably in excess of legislative power.
P. 537.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellant.

291 U.S.

14. If the law-making body within its sphere of government concludes that the .conditions or practices in an industry make unrestricted competition an inadequate safeguard of the consumer's
interests, produce waste harmful to the public, threaten ultimately
to cut off the supply of a commodity needed by the public, or
portend the destruction of the industry itself, appropriate statutes
passed in an honest effort to correct the threatened consequences
may not be set aside because the regulation adopted fixes prices,reasonably deemed by the legislature to be fair to those engaged
in the industry and'to the consuming public. P. 538.
15. This is especially clear where the economic maladjustment is one
of price, which threatens harm to the producer at one end of the
series and the consumer at the other. P. 538.
16. The Constitution does not secure to anyone liberty to conduct
his business in such fashion as to inflict injury upon the public at
large, or upon any substantial group of people. P. 539.
17. Price control, like any other form of regulation, is unconstitutional only if arbitrary, discriminatory, or demonstrably irrelevant
to the policy the legislature is free to adopt, dnd hence an unnecessary and unwarranted interference with individual liberty. P. 539.
262 N.Y. 259; 186 N.E. 694, affirmed.

The New York Court of Appeals affirmed the conviction of a storekeeper for selling milk at a price below that
allowed by'an order promulgated by a state board pursuant to statutory authority. The appeal here is from
the judgment of the County Court entered on remittitur.
Mr. Arthur E. Sutherland, Jr., with whom Mr. Arthur
E. Sutherland was on the brief, for appellant.
§tatutes similar to this have repeatedly been condemned under the Fourteenth Amendment for fixing
prices of common commodities or services. Almost identical was Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U.S. 235,
involving a Tennessee statute which attempted to do for
gasoline exactly what the statute here attempts to do for
milk. The difference between the preambles of the two
Acts is of rhetoric, not of substance. The only important
point of difference lies in the clause of the present Act

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Argument for Appellant.

which purports to end the powers of the Milk Control
Board on March 31, 1934.
In several important cases construing the Fourteenth
Amendment, this Court has selected the dairy and the
grocery as among the best possible examples of essentially
private businesses, to which the traditional "public
utility" concept can not be applied. Cf. New State Ice
Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U.S. 262, where, in speaking of the
ice business, it was said: "It is a business as essentially
private in its nature as the busines of the grocer, the
dairyman, the butcher, the baker, the shoemaker, or the
tailor."
The Milk Control Law, here under discussion, was
drawn with the Ice case before the author, for the preamble contains quotations from the opinion in that case.
In an effort to escape from the effect of that decision, the
Legislature did not start out with a requirement that all
new milk dealers obtain a "certificate of convenience and
necessity." Instead, it proceeded. to fix the minimum price of milk as though the supply were less than is
actually the case. Obviously some persons, like Nebbia,
will not be able to sell at the heightened price, inasmuch
as there is an oversupply of milk for sale. To such a
dealer the Legislature gives the alternative of voluntarily
ceasing sales, or being obliged to cease under penal sanctions or injunctive process, or by being denied a license to
carry on business. If enough people can thus be put out
of the milk business, the effect will be the same as though
a " certificate of convenience and necessity" were exacted
as a condition of continuing to sell milk. The difference
is one of form only. Under the Ice case, the "public
utility" concept which the Legislature has attempted to
apply to the New York milk industry, is unconstitutional.
In Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U.S. 525, the
method of fixing the minima was strikingly like Ahe

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellant.

291 U.S.

method here. The opinion emphasized as one of the principal faults of the statute that "the declared basis" of
the minimum wage "is not the value of the service rendered, but the extraneous circumstance that the employee
needs to get a prescribed sum of money to insure her
subsistence, health and morals."
Similarly in the case at bar, the laudable desire to see
the dairy farmer happier and more prosperous has brought
the New York Legislature to say that, regardless of the
retail value of milk as fixed by oversupply and limited
denmnd, the dealer must sell to his customers at a fixed
minimum, or else not sell.
If he does sell, under § 312 (c) a dealer must "give fair
and reasonable effect to the intent" of the legislature
"that the benefits of any increase of prices received by
milk dealers by virtue of the minimum price provisions
of this section shall be given to producers." If he fails
to live up to this vague standard, the dealer may have his
license suspended or be proceeded against civilly and
criminally.
In the Adkins case, this Court further said: "Should a
statute undertake to vest in a commission power to determine the quantity of food necessary for individual support, and require the shopkeeper, if he sell to the individual at all, to furnish that quantity and not more than a
fixea maximum, it would undoubtedly fall before the constitutional test. The fallacy of any argument in support
of the validity of such a statute would- be quickly
exposed."
In the case at bar, the New York Legislature has created a Board of three men to attempt to determine what
prices for milk will yield the producer and dealer a reasonable return, and insure a supply of good milk; and makes
underselling this price a jail offense.
Price or wage fixing by state statute has been found
invalid in Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U.S.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

507

Argument for Appellant.

522 (Kansas statute regulating wages in the meat packing business during a declared "emergency"); Fairmont
Creamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274 U.S. 1 (Minnesota
statute forbidding a purchaser of dairy products to pay a
higher price for the products in one locality than he paid
in another); Tyson Bros. v. Banton, 273 U.S. 418 (New
York statute limiting the charge for theatre ticket brokerage to 50¢); Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U.S. 350 (New
Jersey statute regulating rates charged by an employment
agency).
The Milk Control Law, as applied by the order of the
Board, discriminates unfairly against Nebbia as a "cashand-carry" dealer in milk. Having paid 80 per quart and
50 per pint to the dealer who supplied him, he was obliged
to resell over his counter at not less than 90 per quart and
60 per pint. Some rival in trade, having no store, but
a wagon and delivery route, had no lower limit set for the
price at which he was obliged to buy his milk; and was
allowed to sell pints of milk as low as Nebbia, with
delivery to the customer's door as a bonus. When
delivering a quart of milk, the route dealer had to
charge only a cent more than Nebbia, a most inadequate
differential.
The unquestioned surplus of wholesome milk in New
York State results in competition to obtain buyers.
Nebbia is obliged to sell as cheaply as possible to hold his
business. This, of course, makes milk more accessible
to the buying public in a time of dearth. Nebbia was
obliged by the Board to pay 80 a quart to the dealer who
supplied him, and was obliged by pressure of competition
caused by surplus milk to sell at 90 a quart. The practical effect is to limit his "mark-up" or gross profit per
quart to one cent. He is equally limited on purchases
and sales of pints, and it is noteworthy that Nebbia and
the route dealer each had to charge 6¢ per pint for milk;
but the route dealer is allowed to give delivery service

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appellant.

291 U.S.

as a bonus, Nebbia, with a "cash and carry" business,
can not legally give bread with milk to equalize this
advantage.
Under § 301 of the Act, if Nebbia could conceivably
buy his milk from a producer (i.e., farmer) who delivers
milk only to a dealer, the law might be construed to
allow him to pay the producer whatever price they agreed
on, provided Nebbia, as required by § 312-c, would "give
fair and reasonable effect to . . . the intent of the legislature that . . . the benefits of any increase of prices

received by milk dealers by virtue of the minimum price
provisions of this section shall be given to producers."
If Nebbia failed in this attempt to follow an indefinite
standard, he could be jailed, fined, enjoined, or have
his license suspended, under § 312-c of the Milk Control
Law. See InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234
U.S. 216; United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255
U.S. 81.
The economic depression now affecting the dairy farmers of New York does not suspend the operation of the.
Fourteenth Amendment.
The Fourteenth Amendment was not adopted in fair
weather; nor was its operation intended to be limited to
times of general content, when no State is pressed to
abridge the liberty and property of the individual. Surely
the protection of the Constitution does not cease when
the need for it is greatest! Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wall. 2,
120; United States v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U.S. 81, 88;
Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U.S. 378
Wilson v. New, 243 U.S. 332, is an illustration of the
power of Congress to regulate common carriers by rail in
interstate commerce. This Court has often pointed out
that power to regulate the affairs of the traditional "public utility" does not include power to fix prices or rates
in the "common callings" such as those of the dairymen,
the grocer, the butcher and the baker.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Argument for Appellant.

The Housing cases, Block v. Hirsh,256 U.S. 135; Brown
Holding Co. v. Feldman,.256 U.S. 170, undoubtedly went
to the very limit of the police power. They were based
upon a shortage of houses and a multitude of persons
anxious for housing, which allowed a grasping landlord
to victimize the tenant for his own profit. The statutes
which penalize forestalling, engrossing, usury, and combining to restrain trade express the same policy. At the
opposite extreme is the statute now before this Court.
With the State of New York flooded with wholesome
milk, the Legislature and Milk Control Board purport to
fine and jail anyone who sells it to the public below the
price set by order. There is a certain grammatical symmetry in the statement hat if a'LUgislature can provide
for fixing a maximum price for houses it can provide for
fixing a minimum price for milk; but the resemblance
between the two is purely verbal.
In Wolff Packing Co. v. IndustrialCourt, 262 U.S. 522,
the Kansas Legislature had declared the meat business
to be affected with a public interest. It was argued that
the packing business was so affected, the existence of an
emergency was urged upon this Court, and the cases said
to uphold the "emergency doctrine," Wilson v. New, 243
U.S. 332; Block v. Hirsh, 256 U.S. 135; and Brown Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U.S. 170, were all cited as
authorities for upholding the Kansas legislation. But
the Court held the statute unconstitutional. The opinion
by Chief Justice Taft includes these words, which might
well have been written of the case at bar: "It has never
been supposed, since the adoption of the Constitution,
that the business of the butcher, or the baker, the tailor,
the woodchopper, the mining operator, or the miner was
clothed with such a public interest that the price of his
product or his wages could be fixed by state regulation."
The Chief Justice then referred to certain businesses
which he had previously discussed, which "have come to

510

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Appeflee.

291 U.S.

hold such a peculiar relation to the public that" some
government regulation is superimposed upon them,
and significantly he lists the Housing case, Block v.
Hirsh, 256 U.S. 135, as an example of such a business. Of
such businesses he says: "In nearly all the businesses included under the third head above, the thing which gave
the public interest was the indispensable nature of the
service and the exorbitant charges and arbitrary control
to which the public might be subjected without regulation. In the preparation of food, the changed conditions
have greatly increased the capacity for treating the raw
product, and transferred the work from the shop with few
employees to the great plant with many. . . . But never
has regulation of food preparation been extended to fixing
wages or the prices to the public, as in the cases cited
above, where fear of monopoly prompted, and was held
to justify, regulation of rates. There is no monopoly in
the preparation of foods."
The milk situation in New York is at the pole opposite
to monopoly. A great abundance of wholesome milk is
for sale by a multitude of dealers and storekeepers, of
whom appellant is one. The statute and order seek
arbitrarily to fix prices for this milk at a level higher
than the natural abundance would indicate. Such regulation is unconstitutional, and can not stand.
Mr. Henry S. Manley, with whom Mr. John J. Bennett,
Jr., Attorney General of New York, and Mr. Henry Epstein, Solicitor General, were on the brief, for appellee.
The necessity for any particular exercise of the police
power is a matter to be determined in the first instance
by the legislature. In the present case such a legislative
determination has been made and no reason appears why
it should be disturbed.
That the period 1930-1933 has brought this Nation and
every part of it some unprecedented problems is of course

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Argument for Appellee.

known to the Supreme Court of the United States.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, 284 U.S.
248, 260; dissent, New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285
U.S. 262, 306.
The Milk Control Law was designed and enacted for
the purpose of regulating the price of milk in the State
of New York temporarily and during a serious emergency. After a long and exhaustive investigation of conditions in the milk industry in the State, the Legislature
found and determined that such an emergency existed.
It is within the power of the Legislature to make this
finding of fact, which is at least highly persuasive.
It being accepted as a fact that a public emergency
exists, and that the legislation is of a temporary nature,
greater latitude than usual is permissible. Wilson v. New,
243 U.S. 332; Block v. Hirsh, 256 U.S. 135, 157; Levy
Leasing Co. v. Siegel, 258 U.S. 242, 245; People ex rel.
Durham R. Corp. v. La Fetra, 230 N.Y. 429, 445.
The temporary and emergent character of the legislation being accepted, it is well within the scope of the police power. People ex rel. Durham R. Corp. v. La Fetra,
supra; People v. Perretta,253 N.Y. 305, 309.
See also Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U.S. 27; Manigault v.
Springs, 199 U.S. 473, 480; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Illinois, 200 U.S. 561, 592; Noble State Bank v. Haskell,
219 U.S. 104; Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U.S. 137, 142,
143; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. Goldsboro, 232 U.S.
548, 558; Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U.S. 52, 59; Hall v.
Geiger-Jones Co., 242 U.S. 539, 548; Miller v. Schoene,
276 U.S. 272, 279-280; Highland v. Russel Car & S. P.
Co., 279 U.S. 254, 260-262; United States v. Macintosh,
283 U.S. 605, 622.
Undoubtedly self-regulation of business through free
competition is a good worthy of considerable sacrifice, but
it is not always the preponderant value. Stephenson v.

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument'for Appellee.

291 U.S.

Binford, 287 U.S. 251, 274. It has been said that the
Constitution is not "the partisan of a particular set of
ethical or economical opinions." Mr. Justice Holmes in
Otis v. Parker,187 U.S. 606, 609. "We have few scientifically certain criteria of legislation, and as it often is difficult to mark the line where what is called the police
power of the States is limited by the Constitution of the
United States, judges should be slow to read into the
latter a nolumus mutare as against the law-making
power." Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U.S. 104, 110.
And no matter how great a value is set on free competition, some care must be taken not to strive for "a mere
delusive liberty." Appalachian Coals, Inc. v. United
States, 288 U.S. 344, 360-361. Distinguishing: Fairmont
Creamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274 U.S. 1; Williams v.
Standard Oil Co., 278 U.S. 235; New State Ice Co. v.
Liebmann, 285 U.S. 262.
The Legislature of New York has found the facts relative to the milk industry. The enactment itself expresses
the legislative judgment as to the appropriate remedy.
The considerations which were decisive as to the ice
business of Oklahoma are none of them applicable to the
business of milk distribution in New York State; the legislative finding that the latter is "a business affecting the
public health and interest" has abundant support; it is a
business of such nature as to justify the application to it
of some of the forms of regulation ordinarily applied to a
public utility.
Fixing minimum prices to consumers is a common form
of utility regulation. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U.S. 113;
Mobile v. Yuille, 2 Ala. 140; Guillotte v. New Orleans,
12 La. Ann. 432; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36;
Great Northern Util. Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm'n, 88 Mont.
180; Public Service Comm'n v. UtilitiesCo., 289 U.S. 130;
South Glens Falls v. Pub. Serv. Comm'n, 225 N.Y. 216,
222-223.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Argument for Appellee.

Perhaps the fixing of maximum prices to be charged by
those engaged in a business carries with it some obligation
to fix minimum prices; if the profits to be had in a business are limited by law, the Government should protect
from destructive competition those whose property is
risked in the business.
As seen by the Legislature through the report of its
committee, New York had more milk than the available
fluid markets could take (in the Spring and early Summer
a double supply), nearly all produced under conditions
that made it available for the fluid markets and competing
for the premium to be obtained there. The distributors,
down to the smallest store, carried on a brisk competition,
but at the farmers' expense. Falling prices in the cities
and villages, secret discounts and free milk and other price
concessions, promptly were reflected in lower prices to
farmers. In the four years from March 1929 to March
1933, the retail price of milk fell 37%, but the price paid
to the farmers fell 61%. The dealers' margin was decreased only. 17%.
All agriculture is notoriously difficult to control through
the law of supply and demand. This is true for a number
of reasons, not the least important being that a farm is
also a home, and a farmer and his family will cling to the
soil regardless of profit. Dairying is a branch of agriculture, and it is a biological industry, the "cow cycle" ordinarily being fifteen years from peak to peak. The dairy
industry will destroy itself, producing below the cost of
production with no more manifestation of logical control
than a herd of buffalo plunging over a cliff.
Milk is an ideal disease carrier and has need to be produced for the fluid market under safeguards which cost
money and which can not be maintained when the milk
check is all absorbed in the feed bill. Milk is a perishable food and the presence of excess milk in a city market

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Amici' Curiae.

291 U.S.

under ordinary conditions of human cupidity is a health
menace.
The business of receiving and distributing milk requires
a considerable investment of capital and its operating expenses are relatively constant per unit of sale. It is a
natural monopoly of organization handling an essential
commodity, and if it were compelled to accept its even
share of such price reductions as those which occurred in
the period 1929-1933, or were subjected to stress through
the reverse condition of milk shortage, its tendency to
monopoly would rapidly be realized and would be attended by various public distresses.
Primarily what the Legislature desired to accomplish
was to savee the dairy industry from destruction, by giving
it a price for milk nearer to the cost of production. The
direct approach to this problem was by setting a minimum
price to be paid by distributors to producers.
Perhaps this simple approach would have been effective. The original form of the bill, which contained no
provision for fixing minimum prices to be paid by consumers, evidently intended this method of approach.
Somebody must have been strongly impressed by the desirability of ending the destructive competition at the
place where it was being waged, and so the minimumprice-to-the-consumer provision was added.
We believe it was a wise addition, as has been demonstrated by the prompt success which attended its original
use by the Board. At least it is probable that retail
prices of milk can not be raised in line with other commodities without either the exercise of this power or else
the usual strikes and disorders.
By leave of Court, briefs of amici curiae were filed as
follows: by Messrs. John W. Bricker, Attorney General
of Ohio, and Charles G. Williams, and Isadore Topper,
Assistant Attorneys General; Messrs. William A. Stevens,

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

Attorney General of New Jersey, and Robert Peacock,
Assistant Attorney General; and Messrs. Warren B. Burrows, Attorney General of Connecticut, Ernest L. Averill,
Deputy Attorney General, and H. Roger Jones and
William H. Nelson, Assistant Attorneys General.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Legislature of New York established, by Chapter
158 of the Laws of 1933, a Milk Control Board with
power, among other things, to "fix minimum and maximum . . . retail prices to be charged by . . . stores to
consumers for consumption off the premises where sold."
The Board fixed nine cents as the price to be charged by
a store for a quart of milk. Nebbia, the proprietor of a
grocery store in Rochester, sold two quarts and a five cent
loaf of bread for eighteen cents; and was convicted for
violating the Board's order. At his trial he asserted the
statute and order contravene the equal protection clause
and the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment,
and renewed the contention in successive appeals to the
county court and the Court of Appeals. Both overruled
his claim and affirmed the conviction.1
The question for decision is whether the Federal Constitution prohibits a state from so fixing the selling price
of milk. We first inquire as to the occasion for the legislation and its history.
During 1932 the prices received by farmers for milk.
were much below the cost of production. The decline in
prices during 1931 and 1932 was much greater than that
of prices generally.- The situation of the families of dairy
producers had become desperate and called for state aid
similar to that afforded the unemployed, if conditions
should not improve.
1 People v. Nebbia, 262 N.Y. 259; 186 N.E. 694.

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

On March 10, 1932, the senate and assembly resolved
"That a joint Legislative committee is hereby created
* . . to investigate the causes of the decline of the price
of milk to producers and the resultant effect of the low
prices upon the dairy industry and the future supply
of milk to the cities of the State; to investigate the cost
of distribution of milk and its relation to prices paid to
milk producers, to the end that the consumer may be
assured of an adequate supply of milk at a reasonable
price, both to producer and consumer." The committee
organized May 6, 1932, and its activities lasted nearly a
year. It held 13 public hearings at which 254 witnesses
testified and 2350 typewritten pages of testimony were
taken. Numerous exhibits were submitted. Under its
direction an extensive research program was prosecuted
by experts and official bodies and employees of the state
and municipalities, which resulted in the assembling of
much pertinent information. Detailed reports were
received from over 100 distributors of milk, and these
were collated and the information obtained analyzed.
As a result of the study of this material, a report covering
473 closely printed pages, embracing the conclusions and
recommendations of the committee, was presented to the
legislature April 10, 1933. This document included
detailed findings, with copious references to the supporting evidence; appendices outlining the nature and results
of prior investigations of the milk industry of the state,
briefs upon the legal quetions involved, and forms of
bills recommended for passage. The conscientious effort
and thoroughness exhibited by the report lend weight
to the committee's conclusions.
In part those conclusions are:
Milk is an essential item! of diet. It cannot long be
stored. It is an excellent medium for growth of bacteria.
These facts necessitate safeguards in its production and
handling for human consumption which greatly increase

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

the cost of the business. Failure of producers to receive
a reasonable return for their labor and investment over
an extended period threaten a relaxation of vigilance
against contamination.
The production and distribution of milk is a paramount
industry of the state, and largely affects the health and
prosperity of its people. Dairying yields fully one-half
of the total income from all farm products. Dairy farm
investment amounts to approximately $1,000,000,000.
Curtailment or destruction of the dairy industry would
cause a serious economic loss to the people of the state.
In addition to the general price decline, other causes
for the low price of milk include: a periodic increase in
the number of cows and in milk production; the prevalence of unfair and destructive trade practices in the distribution of milk, leading to a demoralization of prices in
the metropolitan area and other markets; and the failure
of transportation and distribution charges to be reduced
in proportion to the reduction in retail prices for milk and
cream.
The fluid milk industry is affected by factors of instability peculiar to itself which call for special methods
of control. Under the best practicable adjustment of
supply to demand the industry must carry a surplus of
about 20 per cent., because milk, an essential food, must
be available as demanded by consumers every day in the
year, and demand and supply vary from day to day and
according to the season; but milk is perishable and cannot
be stored. Close adjustment of supply to demand is hindered by several factors difficult to control. Thus surplus
milk presents a serious problem, as the prices which can
be realized for it for other uses are much less than those
obtainable for milk sold for consumption in fluid form or
as cream. A satisfactory stabilization of prices for fluid
milk requires that the burden of surplus milk be shared
equally by all producers and all distributors in the milk-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

shed. So long as the surplus burden is unequally distributed the pressure to market surplus milk in fluid form
will be a serious disturbing factor. The fact that the
larger distributors find it necessary to carry large quantities of surplus milk, while the smaller distributors do
not, leads to price-cutting and other forms of destructive
comipetition. Smaller distributors, who take no responsibility for the surplus, by purchasing their milk at the
blended prices (i.e., an average between the price paid
the producer for milk for sale as fluid milk, and the lower
surplus milk price paid by the larger organizations) can
undersell the larger distributors. Indulgence in this
price-cutting often compels the larger dealer to cut the
price, to his own and the producer's detriment.
Various remedies were suggested, amongst them united
action by producers, the fixing of minimum prices for
milk and cream by state authority, and the imposition
of certain graded taxes on milk dealers proportioned so as
to equalize the cost of milk and cream to all dealers and
so remove the cause of price-cutting.
The legislature adopted Chapter 158 as a method of
correcting the evils, which the report of the committee
showed could not be expected to right themselves through
the ordinary play of the forces -of supply and demand,
owing to the peculiar and uncontrollable factors affecting
the industry. The provisions of the statute are summarized in the margin. 2
2 Chapter 158 of the Laws of 1933 added a new Article (numbered
25) to the Agriculture and Markets Lav
The reasons for the enactment are set forth in the first section (§ 300). So far as material
they are: that unhealthful, unfair, unjust, destructive, demoralizing
and uneconomic trade practices exist in the production, sale and distribution of milk and milk products, whereby the dairy industry in
the state and the constant supply of pure milk to inhabitants of the
state are imperiled; these conditions are a menace to the public
health, welfare and reasonable comfort; the production and distribution of milk is a paramount industry upon which the prosperity of

NEBIBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

519

Opinion of the Court.

Section 312 (e), on which the prosecution in the present
case is founded, provides: "After the board shall have
fixed prices to be charged or paid for milk in any form
the state in a great measure depends; existing economic conditions
have largely destroyed the purchasing power of milk producers for
industrial products, have broken down the orderly production and
marketing of milk, and have seriously impaired the agricultural assets
supporting the credit structure of the state and its local governmental
subdivisions. The danger to public health and welfare consequent
upon these conditions is declared to be immediate and to require
public supervision and control of the industry to enforce proper
standards of production, sanitation and marketing.
The law then (§ 301) defines the terms used; declaring, inter alia,
that "milk dealer" means any person who purchases or handles milk
within the state, for sale in the state, or sells milk within the state
except when consumed on the premises where sold; and includes
within the definition of "store" a grocery store.
By § 302 a state Milk Control Board is established; and by § 303
general power is conferred upon that body to supervise and regulate
the entire milk industry of the state, subject to existing provisions
of the public health law, the public service law, the state sanitary
code, and local health ordinances-and regulations; to act as arbitrator
or mediator in controversies arising between producers and dealers, or
groups within those classes, and to exercise certain special powers
to which reference will be made.
The Board is authorized to promulgate orders and rules which are
to have the force of law (§ 304); to make investigations (§ 305);
to enter and inspect premises in which any branch of the industry
is conducted, and examine the books, papers and records of any person concerned in the industry (§ 306); to license all milk dealers and
suspend or revoke licenses for specified causes, its action in these
respects being subject to review by certiorari (§ 308), and to require
licensees to keep records (§ 309) and to make reports (§ 310).
A violation of any provision of Article 25 or of any lawful order
of the Board is made a misdemeanor (§ 307).
By § 312 it is enacted (a): "The board shall ascertain by such
investigations and proofs as the emergency permits, what prices for
milk in the several localities and markets of the state, and under
varying conditions, will best protect the milk industry in the state
and insure a sufficient quantity of pure and wholesome milk .

.

. and

be most in the public interest. The board shall take into considera-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.
*

.

291 U.S.

.it shall be unlawful for a milk dealer to sell or buy or

offer to sell or buy milk at any price less or more than
such price .. ., and no method or device shall be lawful
whereby milk is bought or sold . . . at a price less or

more than such price . . . whether by any discount, or
rebate, or free service, or advertising allowance, or a combined price for such milk together with another commodity or commodities, or service or services, which is
less or more than the aggregate of the prices for the milk
and the price or prices for such other commodity or commodities, or service or services, when sold or offered for
sale separately or otherwise
First. The appellant urges that the order of the Milk
Control Board denies him the equal protection of the laws.
It is shown that the order requires him, if he purchases his
supply from a dealer, to pay eight cents per quart and
tion all conditions affecting the milk industry including the amount
necessary to yield a reasonable return to the producer and to the
milk dealer." (b) After such investigation the board shall by official order fix minimum and maximuni wholesale and retail prices to be
charged by milk dealers to consumers, by milk dealers to stores for
consumption on the premises or for resale to consumers, and by stores
to consumers for consumption off the premises where sold. It is
declared (c) that the intent of the law is that the benefit of any
advance in price granted to dealers shall be passed on to the producer, and if the board, after due hearing, finds this has not been
done, the dealer's license may be revoked, and the dealer may be
subjected to the penalties mentioned in the Act. The board may (d)
after investigation fix the prices to be paid by dealers to producers
for the various grades and classes of milk.
Subsection (e),oon which the prosecution in the present case is
founded, is quoted in the text.
Alterations may be made in existing orders after hearing of the
interested parties (f) and orders made are subject to review on certiorari. The board (§ 319) is to continue with all the powers and
duties specified until March 31, 1934, at which date it is to be deemed
abolished. The Act contains further provisions not material to the
preoent controversy.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

five cents per pint, and to resell at not less than nine and
six, whereas the same dealer may buy his supply from
a farmer at lower prices and deliver milk to consumers
at ten cents the quart and six cents the pint. We think
the contention that the discrimination deprives the appellant of equal protection is not well founded. For aught
that appears, the appellant purchased his supply of milk
from a farmer as do distributors, or could have procured
it from a farmer if he so desired. There is therefore no
showing that the order placed him at a disadvantage, or
in fact affected him adversely, and this alone is fatal to
the claim of denial of equal protection. But if it were
shown that the appellant is compelled to buy from a distributor, the difference in the retail price he is required
to charge his customers, from that prescribed for sales by
distributors, is not on its face arbitrary or unreasonable,
for there are obvious distinctions between the two sorts
of merchants which may well justify a difference of treatment, if the legislature possesses the power to control the
prices to be charged for fluid milk. Compare American
Sugar Refining Co. v. Louisiana, 179 U.S. 89; Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U.S. 563; State Board of Tax
Commissioners v. Jackson, 283 U.S. 527.
Second. The more serious question is whether, in the
light of the conditions disclosed, the enforcement of § 312
(e) denied the appellant the due process secured to him
by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Save the conduct of railroads, no business has leen so
thoroughly regimented and regulated by the State of New
York as the milk industry. Legislation controlling it in
the interest of the public health was adopted in 18628
and subsequent statutes4 have been carried into the gen'Laws of 1862, Chap. 467.
'Laws of 1893, Chap. 338. Laws of 1909, Chap. 9; Consol. Laws,

Chap. 1.

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

eral codification known as the Agriculture and Markets
Law.5 A perusal of these statutes discloses that the milk
industry has been progressively subjected to a larger
measure of control." The producer or dairy farmer is in
certain circumstances liable to have his herd quarantined
against bovine tuberculosis; is limited in the importation
of dairy cattle to those free from Bang's disease; is subject to rules governing the care and feeding of his cows and
the care of the milk produced, the condition and surroundings of his barns and buildings used for production
of milk, the utensils used, and the persons employed in
milking (§§ 46, 47, 55, 72-88). Proprietors of milkgathering-station§ or processing plants are subject to regulation (§ 54), and persons in charge must operate under
license and give bond to comply with the law and regulations; must keep records, pay promptly for milk purchased, abstain from false or misleading statements and
from combinations to fix prices (§§ 57, 57a, 252). In addition there is a large volume of legislation intended to
promote cleanliness and fair trade practices, affecting all
who are engaged in the industry.7 The challenged amend'Laws of 1927, Chap. 207; Cahill's Consolidated Laws of New
York, 1930, Chap. 1.
'Many of these regulations have been unsuccessfully challenged on
constitutional grounds. See People v. Cipperly, 101 N.Y. 634; 4
N.E. 107; People v. Hill, 44 Hun 472; People v. West, 106 N.Y. 293;
12 N.E. 610; People v. Kibler, 106 N.Y. 321; 12 N.E. 795; People v.
Hills, 64 App. Div. 584; 72 N.Y.S. 340; People v. Bowen, 182 N.Y. 1;
74 N.E. 489; Lieberman v. Van de Carr, 199 U.S. 552; St. John
v. New York, 201 U.S. 633; People v. Koster, 121 App. Div. 852;
106 N.Y.S. 793; People v. Abramson, 208 N.Y. 138; 101 N.E. 849;
People v. Frudenberg,209 N.Y. 218; 103 N.E. 166; People v. Beakes
Dairy Co., 222 N.Y. 416; 119 N.E. 115; People v. Teuscher, 248
N.Y. 454; 162 N.E. 484; People v. Perretta, 253 N.Y. 305; 171 N.E.
72; People v. Ryan, 230 App. Div. 252; 248 N.Y.S. 644; Mintz v.
Baldwin, 289 U.S. 346.
'See Cahill's Consolidated Laws of New York, 1930, and Supplements to and including 1933: Chap. 21, §§ 270-274; Chap. 41, §§ 435,
438, 1740, 1764, 2350-2357; Chap. 46, §§ 6-a, 20, 21.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

ment of 1933 carried regulation much farther than the
prior enactments. Appellant insists that it went beyond
the limits fixed by the Constitution.
Under our form of government the use of property and
the making bf contracts are normally matters of private
and not of public concern. The general rule is that both
shall be free of governmental interference. But neither
property rights I nor contract rights' are absolute; for
government cannot exist if the citizen may at will use his
property to the detriment of his fellows, or exercise his
freedom of contract to work them harm. Equally fundamental with the private right is that of the public to
regulate it in the common interest. As Chief Justice
Marshall said, speaking specifically of inspection laws,
such laws form "a portion of that immense mass of legislation, which embraces every thing within the territory
of a State . . . all which can be most advantageously
exercised by the States themselves. Inspection laws,
quarantine laws, health laws of every description, as
well as laws for regulating the internal commerce of a
State, . . . are component parts of this mass."
Justice Barbour said for this court:
...
it is not only the right, but the bounden and
solemn duty of a state, to advance the safety, happiness
and prosperity of its people, and to provide for its general
welfare, by any and every act of legislation, which it may
deem to be conducive to these ends; where the power over
the particular subject, or themanner of its exercise, is not
surrendered or restrained, in the manner just stated.
'Munn v. Illinois, 94 U.S. 113, 124, 125; Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs,
172 U.S. 557, 566; Northern Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U.F
197, 351; and see the cases cited in notes 16-23, infra.
9
Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U.S. 578, 591; Atlantic Coast Line v.
Riverside Mills, 219 U.S. 186, 202; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Cc-. v.
McGuire, 219 U.S. 549, 567; Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U.S. 251,
274.
1 Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203.

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

That all those powers which relate to merely municipal
legislation, or what may, perhaps, more properly be called
internal police, are not thus surrendered or restrained;
and that, consequently, in relation to these, the authority
of a state is complete, unqualified, and exclusive." "I
And Chief Justice Taney said upon the same subject:
"But what are the police powers of a State? They
are nothing more or less than the powers of government
inherent in every sovereignty to the extent of its dominions. And whether a State passes a quarantine. law, or a
law to punish offences, or to establish courts of justice, or
requiring certain instruments to be recorded, or to regulate commerce within its own limits, in every case it
exercises the same powers; that is to say, the power of
sovereignty, the power to govern men and things within
the limits of its dominion. It is by virtue of this power
that it legislates; and its authority to make regulations
of commerce is as absolute as its power to pass health
laws, except in so far as it has been restricted by the
constitution of the United States." 12
Thus has this court from the early days affirmed that
the power to promote the general welfare is inherent in
government. Touching the matters committed to it by
the Constitution, the United State ; possesses the power,"3
as do the states in their sovereign capacity touching all
subjects jurisdiction of which is not surrendered to the
federal government, as shown by the quotations above
given. These correlative rights, that of the citizen to
exercise exclusive dominion over property and freely to
contract about his affairs, and that of the state to regulate
the use of property and the conduct of business, are always
in collision. No exercise of the private right can be
'New York v. Miln, 11 Pet. 102, 139.

'License Cases, 5 How. 504, 583.

United States v. Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41; Gloucester Perry Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 114 U.S. 196, 215.
18

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the Cburt.

imagined which will not in some respect, however slight,
affect the public; no exercise of the legislative prerogative
to regulate the conduct of the citizen which will not to
some extent abridge his liberty or affect his property.,
But subject only to constitutional restraint the private
right must yield to the public need.
The Fifth Amendment, in the field of federal activity,'
and th Fourteenth, as respects state action, 5 do not prohibit governmental regulation for the public welfare.
They merely condition the exertion of the admitted
power, by securing that the end shall be accomplished by
methods consistent with due process. And the guaranty
of due process, as has often been held, demands only that
the law shall not be unreasonable, arbitrary or capricious,
and that the means selected shall have a real and substantial relation to the object sought to be attained. It
results that a regulation valid for one sort of business, or
in given circumstances, may be invalid for another sort, or
for the same business under other circumstances, because
the reasonableness of each regulation depends upon the
relevant facts.
The reports of our decisions abound with cases in which
the citizen, individual or corporate, has vainly invoked
the Fourteenth Amendment in resistance to necessary and
appropriate exertion of the police power.
The court has repeatedly sustained curtailment of enjoyment of private property, in the public interest. The
owner's rights may be subordinated to the needs of other
private owners whose pursuits are vital to the paramount
interests of the community."6 The state may control the
"Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States,'175 U.S. 211, 228-

229.
" Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U.S. 27, 31; Chicago, B. & Q. A. Co. vDrainage Comm'rs, 200 U.S. 561, 592.
"Clark v. Nash, 198 U.S. 361; Strickley v. Highland Boy Mining

Co., 200 U.S. 527.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

use of property in various ways; may prohibit advertising
bill boards except of a prescribed size and location," or
their use for certain kinds of advertising; 11 may in certain
circumstances authorize encroachments by party walls in
cities;'" may fix the height of buildings, the character of
materials, and methods of construction, the adjoining area
which must be left open, and may exclude from residential sections offensive trades, industries and structures
likely injuriously to affect the public health or safety;"0
or may establish zones within which certain types of buildings or businesses are permitted and others excluded. 2
And although the Fourteenth Amendment extends protection to aliens as well as citizens,' a state may for adequate reasons of policy exclude aliens altogether from
the use and occupancy of land.2"
Laws passed for the suppression of immorality, in the
interest of health, to secure fair trade practices, and to
safeguard the interests of depositors in banks, have been
found consistent with due process.24 These measures not
1

(usack Co. v. Chicago, 242 U.S. 526; St. Louis Poster Advertising

Co. v. St. Louis, 249 U.S. 269.
'Packer Corp. v. Utah, 285 U.S. 105.
"Jackman v. Rosenbaum Co., 260 U.S. 22.
"Fischer v. St. Louis, 194 U.S. 361; Wklch v. Swasey, 214 U.S. 91;
Hadacheck v. Sebastian, 239 U.S. 394; Reinman v. Little Rock, 237

US. 171.
"Euclid v. Ambler Realty Co., 272 U.S. 365; Zahn v. Board of
Public Works, 274 U.S. 325; Gorieb v. Fox, 274 U.S. 603.
= Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U.S. 356, 369.
" Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U.S. 197; Webb v. O'Brien, 263 U.S.

313.
Forbidding transmission of lottery tickets, Lottery Case, 188 U.S.
321; transportation of prize fight films, Weber v. Freed, 239 U.S. 325;
the shipment of adulterated food, Hipolite Egg Co. v. United States,
220 U.S. 45; transportation of women for immoral puirposes, Hoke v.
United States, 227 U.S. 308; Caminetti v. United States, 242 U.S.
470; transportation of intoxicating liquor, Clark Distilling Co. v.
Western Maryland Ry. Co., 42 U.S. 311; requiring the public weigh-

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

527

Opinion of the Court.

only affected the use of private property, but also interfered with the right of private contract. Other instances
are numerous where valid regulation has restricted the
right of contract, while less directly affecting property
rights.2 5
.The Constitution does not guarantee the unrestricted
privilege to engage in a business or to conduct it as one
ing of grain, Merchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U.S. 365; regulating the size and weight of loaves of bread, Schmidinger Y. Chicago,
226 U.S. 578; PetersenBaking Co. v. Bryan, 290 U.S. 570; regulating
the size and character of packages in which goods are sold, Armour &
Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U.S. 510.; regulating sales in bulk of a
stock in trade, Lemieux v. Young, 211 U.S. 489; Kidd, Dater & Price
Co. v. Musselman Grocer Co., 217 U.S. 461; sales of stocks and bonds,
Hall v. Geiger-Jones Co., 242. U.S. 539; Merrick v. Halsey & Co.,
242 U.S. 568; requiring fluid milk offered for sale to be tuberculin
tested, Adams v. Milwaukee, 228 U.S. 572; regulating sales of grain
by actual weight, and abrogating exchange rules to the contrary,
House v. Mayes, 219 U.S. 270; subjecting state banks to assessments
for a state depositors' guarantee fund, Noble State Bank v. Haskell,
219 U.S. 104.
'Prescribing hours of labor in particular occupations, Holden v.
Hardy, 169 U.S. 366; B. & 0. R. Co. v. I.C.C., 221 U.S. 612; Bunting
v. Oregon, 243 U.S. 426; prohibiting child labor, Sturges & Burn Co.
v. Beauchamp, 231 U.S. 320; forbidding night work by women, Radice
v. New York, 264 U.S. 292; reducing hours of labor for women,
Muller v. Oregon, 208 U.S. 412; Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U.S. 671;
Miller v. Wilson, 236 U.S. 373; fixing the time for payment of seamen's wages, Pattersonv. Bark Eudora,190 U.S. 169; StrathearnS.S.
Co. v. Dillon, 252 U.S. 348; of wages of railroad employes, St. Louis,
1.M. & St. P. Ry. Co. V. Paul, 173 U.S. 404; Erie R. Co. v. Williams,
233 U.S. 685; regulating the redemption of store orders issued for
wages, Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U.S. 13; Keokee Consolidated Coke Co. v. Taylor, 234 U.S. 224; regulating the assignment
of wages, Mutual Loan.Co. v. Martell, 222 U.S. 225; requiring payment for coal mined on a fixed basis other than that usually practiced, McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U.S. 539; Rail & River Coal Co. v.
Yaple, 236 U.S. 338 i establishing a system of compulsory workmen's,
compensation, New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243 US. 188;
Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U.S. 219.

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291.U.S.

pleases. Certain kinds of business may be prohibited; 26
and the right to conduct a business, or to pursue a calling,
may be conditioned.2 ' Regulation of a business to prevent waste of the state's resources may be justified.28
And statutes preseribing the terms upon which those
conducting certain businesses may contract, or imposing
-terms if they do enter into agreements, are within the
2
state's competency.
USales

of stock or grain on margin, Booth v. Illinois, 184 U.S. 425;
Brodnax v. Missouri, 219 U.S. 285; Otis v. Parker, 187 U.S. 606; the
conduct of pool and billiard rooms by aliens, Clarke v. Deckebach,
274 U.S. 392; the conduct of billiard and pool rooms by anyone,
Murphy v. California, 225 U.S. 623; the sale of liquor, Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U.S. 623; the business of soliciting claims by one not an
attorney, McCloskey v. Tobin, 252 U.S. 107; manufacture or sale
of oleomargarine, Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U.S. 678; hawking and
peddling of drugs or mrdicines, Baccus v. Louisiana, 232 U.S. 334;
forbidding any other than a corporation to engage in the business of
receiving deposits, Dillingham v. McLaughlin, 264 U.S. 370, or any
other than corporations to do a banking business, Shallenberger v.
First State Bank, 219 U.S. 114.
Physicians, Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U.S. 114; Watson v. Maryland, 218 U.S. 173; Crane v. Johnson, 242 U.S. 339; Hayman v.
Galveston, 273 U.S. 414; dentists, Douglas v. Noble, 261 U.S. 165;
Graves v. Minnesota, 272 U.S. 425; employment agencies, Brazee v.
Michigan, 241 U.S. 340; public weighers of grain, Merchants Exchange v. Missouri, 248 U.S. 365; real estate brokers, Bratton v.
Chandler, 260 U.S. 110; insurance agents, La Tourette v. McMaster,
248 U.S. 465; insurance companies, German Alliance Ins. Co. v.
Lewis, 233 U.S. 389; the sale of cigarettes, Gundling v. Chicago,
177 U.S. 183; the sale of spectacles, Roschen v. Ward, 279 U.S.
337; private detectives, Lehon v. Atlanta, 242 U.S. 53; grain brokers,
Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U.S. 1; business of renting
automobiles to be used by the renter upon the public streets, Hodge
Co, v. Cincinnati, 284 U.S. 335.
Champlin Refining Co. v. Corporation Comm'n, 286 U.S. 210.
Compare Bandini Petroleum Co. v. Superior Court, 284 U.S. 8,
21-22.
Contracts of carriage, Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills,
219 U.S. 186; agreements substituting relief or insurance payments

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the CMurt.

Legislation concerning sales of goods, and incidentally
affecting prices, has repeatedly been held valid. In this
class fall laws forbidding unfair competition by the charging of lower prices in one locality than those exacted in
another," by giving trade inducements to purchasers,3 '
and by other forms of price discrimination. 2 The public
policy with respect to free competition has exgendered
state and federal statutes prohibiting monopolies, "
which have been upheld. On the other hand, where the
policy of the state dictated that a monopoly' should be
granted, statutes having that effect have been held inoffensive to the constitutional guarantees." Moreover,
the state or a municipality may itself enter into business
in competition with private proprietors, and thus effecfor actions for negligence, Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. McGuire, 219
U.S. 549; affecting contracts of insurance, Orient Ins. Co. v. Daggs,
172 U.S. 557; Whitfield v. Aetna Life Ins. Co., 205 U.S. 489; National Union Fire Ins. Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U.S. 71; Hardware Dealers Mut. F. I. Co. v. Glidden Co., 284 U.S. 151; contracts for sale of
real estate, Selover, Bates & Co. v. Walsh, 226 U.S. 112; contracts for
sale of farm machinery, Advance-Rumely Co. v. Jackson, 287 U.S.
283; bonds for performance of building contracts, Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. v. Nelson Mfg. Co., 291 U.S. 352.
"Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U.S. 157.
Rast v. Van Deman & Lewis Co., 240 U.S. 342.
Van Camp & Sons Co. v. American Can Co., 278 US. 245.
'State statutes: Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U.S. 447; National Cotton
Oil Co. v. Texas, 197 U.S. 115; Waters-Pierce Oil Co. v. Texas
(No. 1), 212 U.S. 86;, Hammond Packing Co. v. Arkansas, 212 U.S.
322; GrenadaLumber Co. v. lvississippi, 217 U.S. 433; International
Harvester Co. v. Missouri, 234 U.S. 199.

Federal .statutes: United States v. JQint Traffic Assn., 171 U.S.
505, 559, 571-573; Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175
U.S. 211, 228-9; Northern Securitics Co. v. United States, 193 U.S.
197, 332; United Shoe Mach. Corp. v. United States, 258 U.S. 451,
462-464.
"Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Conway v! Tay'lot's Executor, 1 Black 603; Crowley v. Christensen, 137 U.S. 86.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

.tively although indirectly control the prices charged by
them. "
The milk industry in New York has been the subject
of long-standing and drastic regulation in the public interest. The legislative investigation of 1932 was persuasive of the fact that for this and other reasons unrestricted competition aggravated existing evils, and the
normal law of supply and demand was insufficient to correct maladjustments detrimental to the community. The
inquiry disclosed destructive and demoralizing competitive conditions and unfair trade practices which resulted
in retail price-cutting and reduced the income of the
farmer below the cost of production. We do not understand the appellant to deny that in these circumstances
the legislature might reasonably consider further regulation and control desirable for protection of the industry
and the consuming public. That body believed conditions could be improved by preventing destructive pricecutting by stores which, due to the flood of surplus milk,
were able to buy at much lower prices than the larger distributors and to sell without incurring the delivery costs
of the latter. In the order of which complaint is made the
Milk Control Board fixed a price of ten cents per quart
for sales by a distributor to a consumer, and nine cents
by a store to a consumer, thus recognizing the lower costs
of the store, and endeavoring to establish a differential
which would be just to both. In the light of the facts
the order appears not to be unreasonable or arbitrary, or
without relation to the purpose to prevent ruthless competition from destroying the wholesale price structure on
which the farmer depends for his livelihood, and the
community for an assured supply of milk.
" Madera Water Works v. Madera, 228 U.S. 454; Jones v. Portland, 245 U.S. 217; Green v. Frazier, 253 U.S. 233; Standard Oil Co.
V. .Linolny 275 U.S. 504.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

But we are told that because the law essays to control
prices it denies due process. Notwithstanding the admitted power to correct existing economic ills by appropriate regulation of business, even though an indirect
result may be a restriction of the freedom of contract or
a modification of charges for services or the price of commodities, the appellant urges that direct fixation of prices
is a type of regulation absolutely forbidden. His position is that the Fourteenth Amendment requires us to
hold the challenged statute void for this reason alone.
The argument runs that the public control of rates or
prices is per se unreasonable and unconstitutional, save
as applied to businesses affected with a public interest;
that a business so affected is one in which property is
devoted to an enterprise of a sort which the public itself
might appropriately undertake, or one whose owner
relies on a public grant or franchise for the right to conduct the business, or in which he is bound to serve all who
apply; in short, such as is commonly called a public
utility; or a business in its nature a monopoly. The
milk industry, it is said, possesses none of these characteristics, and, therefore, not being affected with a public
interest, its charges may not be controlled by the state.
Upon the soundness of this contention the appellant's
case against the statute depends.
We may as well say at once that the dairy industry~is
not, in the accepted sense of the phrase, a public utility.
We think the appellantis also right in asserting that there
is in this case no suggestion of any monopoly or monopolistic practice. It goes without saying that those engaged
in the business are in no way dependent upon public
grants or franchises for the privilege of conducting their
activities. But if, as must be conceded, the industry is
subject to regulation in the public interest, what constitutional principle bars the state from correcting existing

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

maladjustments by legislation touching prices? We think
there is no such principle. The due process clause makes
no mention of sales or of prices any more than it speaks of
business or contracts or buildings or other incidents of
property. The thought seems nevertheless to have persisted that there is something peculiarly sacrosanct about
the price one may charge for what he makes or sells, and
that, however able to regulate other elements of manufacture or trade, with incidental effect upon price, the
state is incapable of directly controlling the price itself.
This view was negatived many years ago. Munn v.
Illinois, 94 U.S. 113. The appellant's claim is, however,
that this court, in there sustaining a statutory prescription of charges for storage by the proprietors of a grain
elevator, limited permissible legislation of that type to
businesses affected with a public interest, and he says no
business is so affected except it have one or more of the
characteristics he enumerates. But this is a misconception. Munn and Scott held no franchise from the
state. They owned the property upon which their elevator was situated and conducted their business as private
citizens. No doubt they felt at liberty to deal with whom
they pleased and on such terms as they might deem just
to themselves. Their enterprise could not fairly be called
a monopoly, although it was referred to in the decision
as a "virtual monopoly." This meant only that their
elevator was strategically situated and that a large portion
of the ,public found it highly inconvenient -to deal with
others. This court concluded the circumstances justified
the legislation as an exercise of the governmental right to
control the business in the public interest; that is, as an
exercise of the police power. It is true that the court cited
a statement from Lord Hale's De Portibus Marls, to the
effect that when private property is "affected with a public interest, it ceases to be juris privati only "; but the
court proceeded at once to define what it understood by

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

the expression, saying: "Property does become clothed
with a public interest when used in a manner to make
it of public consequence, and affect the community at
large" (p. 126). Thus understood, "affected with a public interest " is the equivalent of "subject to the exercise
of the police power "; and it is plain that nothing more
was intended by the expression. The court had been at
pains to define that power (pp. 124, 125) ending its
discussion in these words:
"From this it is apparent that, down to the time of the
adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, it was not supposed that statutes regulating the use, or even the price
of the use, of private property necessarily deprived an
owner of his property without due process of law. Under
some circumstances they may, but not under all. The
amendment does not change the law in this particular: it
simply prevents the States from doing that which will
operate as such a deprivation." 88
In the further discussion of the principle it is said that
when one devotes his property to a use, "in which the
public has an interest," he in effect "grants to the public
an interest in that use" and must submit to be controlled
for the common good. The conclusion is that if Munn
and Scott wished to avoid having their business regulated
they should not have embarked their property in an industry which is subject to regulation in the public interest.
The true interpretation of the court's language is
claimed to be that only property voluntarily devoted to a
known public use is subject to regulation as to rates.
But obviously Munn and Scott had not voluntarily dedicated their business to a public use. They intended only
'As instances of Acts of Congress regulating private businesses consistently with the due process guarantee of the Fifth Amendment the
court cites those fixing rates to be charged at private wharves, by
chimney-sweeps and hackneys, cartmen, wagoners and draymen in the
District of Columbia (p. 125).

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

to conduct it as private citizens, and they insisted that
they had done nothing which gave the public an interest
in their transactions or conferred any right of regulation.
The statement that one has dedicated his property to a
public use is, therefore, merely another way of saying that
if one embarks in a business which public interest demands shall be regulated, he must know regulation will
ensue.
In the same volume the court sustained regulation of
railroad rates. 7 After referring to the fact that railroads
are carriers for hire, are incorporated as such, and given
extraordinary powers in order that they may better serve
the public, it was said that they are engaged in employment "affecting the public interest," and therefore, under
the doctrine of the Munn case, subject to legislative control as to rates. And in another of the group of railroad
cases then heard 88 it was said that the property of railroads is "clothed with a public interest" which permits
legislative limitation of the charges for its use. Plainly
the activities of railroads, their charges and practices, so
'nearly touch the vital economic interests of society that
the police power may be invoked to regulate their charges,
and no additional formula of affection or clothing with
a public interest is needed to justify the regulation. And
this is evidently true of all business units supplying transportation, light, heat, power and water to communities,
irrespective of how they obtain their powers.
The touchstone of public interest in any. business, its
practices and charges, clearly is not the enjoyment of
any franchise from the state, Munn v. Illinois, supra.
Nor is it the enjoyment of a monopoly; for in Brass v.
Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. Iowa, 94 U.S. 155. It will be 'noted
that the emphasis is here reversed, and .the carrier is said to be in a
business affecting the public, not that the business is somehow affected
by Tan interest of the public.
Peik v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 94 U.S. 164.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

North Dakota., 153 U.S. 391, a similar control of prices
of grain elevators was upheld in spite of overwhelming
and uncontra 'icted proof that about six hundred grain
elevators existed along the line of the Great Northern
Railroad, in North Dakota; that at the very station where
the defendant's elevator was located two others operated;
and that the business was keenly competitive throughout
the state.
In German Alliance Insurance Co. v. Lewis, 233 U.S.
389, a statute fixing the amount of premiums for fire insurance was held not to deny due process. Though the
business of the insurers depended on no franchise or grant
from the state, and there was no threat of monopoly, two
factors rendered the regulation reasonable. These were
the almost universal need of insurance protection and the
fact that while the insurers competed for the business,
they all fixed their premiums for similar risks according
to an agreed schedule of rates. The court was at pains
to point out that it was impossible to lay down any sweeping and general classification of businesses as to which
price-regulation could be adjudged arbitrary or the
reverse.
Many other decisions show that the private character
of a business does not necessarily remove it from the
realm of regulation of charges or prices. The usury laws
fix the price which may be exacted for the use of money,
although no business more essentially private in character can be imagined than that of loaning one's personal
funds. Griffith v. Connecticut, 218 U.S. 563. Insurance
agents' compensation may be regulated, though their contracts are private, because the business of insurance is
considered one properly subject to public control. O'Gorman & Young v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282 U.S. 251.
Statutes prescribing in the public interest the amounts to
be charged by attorneys for prosecuting certain claims,
a matter ordinarily one of personal and private nature,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of- the Court.

291 U.S.

are not a deprivation of due process. Frisbie v. United
States, 157 U.S. 160; Capital Trust Co. v. Calhoun, 250
U.S. 208; Calhoun v. Massie, 253 U.S. 170; Newman v.
Moyers, 253 U.S. 182; Yeiser v. Dysart, 267 U.S. 540;
Margolin v. United States, 269 U.S. 93. A stockyards
corporation, "while not a common carrier, nor engaged
in any distinctively public employment, is doing a work in
which the public has an interest," and its charges may be
controlled.. Cotting v. Kansas Citj Stockyards Co., 183
U.S. 79, 85. Private contract carriers, who do not operate
under a franchise, and have no monopoly of the carriage
of goods or passengers, may, since they use the highways
to compete with railroads, be compelled to charge rates
not lower than those of public carriers for corresponding
services, if the state, in pursuance of a public policy to
protect the latter, so determines. Stephenson v. Binford,
287 U.S. 251, 274.
It is clear that there is no closed class or category of
businesses affected with a public interest, and the function
of courts in the application of the Fifth and Fourteenth
Amendments is to determine in each case whether circumstances vindicate the challenged regulation as a reasonable exertion of governmental authority or condemn
it as arbitrary or discriminatory.
Packing Co. v.
IndustrialCourt, 262 U.S. 522, 535. , The phrase "affected
with a public interest" can, in the nature of things, mean
no more than that an industry, for adequate reason, is
subject to control for the public good. In several of the
decisions of this court wherein the expressions "affected
with a public interest," and "clothed with a public use,"
have been brought forward as the criteria of the validity
of price control, it has been admitted that they are. not
susceptible of definition and form an unsatisfactory test
of the constitutionality of legislation directed at business
practices or prices. These decisions must rest, finally,
upon the basis that the requirements of due process were
"',Wolff

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

Opinion of the Court.

not met because the laws were found arbitrary in their
operation and effect."9 But there can be no doubt that
upon proper occasion and by appropriate measures the
state may regulate a business in any of its aspects, including the prices to be charged for the products or commodities it sells.
So far as the requirement of due process is concerned,
and in the absence of other constitutional restriction, a
state is free to adopt whatever economic policy may reasonably be deemed to promote public welfare, and to
enforce that policy by legislation adapted to its purpose.
The courts are without authority either to declare such
policy, or, when it is, declared by the legislature, to
override it. If the laws passed are seen to have a reasonable relation to a proper legislative purpose, and are
neither arbitrary nor discriminatory, the requirements of
due process are satisfied, and judicial determination to
that effect renders a court functus officio. "Whether the
free operation of the normal laws of competition is a
wise and wholesome rule for trade and commerce is an
economic question which this court need not consider or
determine." Northerm Securities Co. v. United States,
193 U.S. 197, 337-8. And it is equally clear that if the
legislative policy be to curb unrestrained and harmful
competition by measures which are -not arbitrary or
discriminatory it does not lie with the courts to determine that the rule is unwise. With the wisdom of the
policy adopted, with the adequacy or practicability of the
law enacted to forward it, the courts are both incompetent and unauthorized to deal. The course of decision in
this court exhibits a firm adherence to these principles.
Times without number we have said that the legislature
is primarily the judge of the necessity of such an enact" See Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, supra; Tyson & Pro.
v. Banton., 273 U.S. 418; Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U.S. 350; Williams
v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U.S. 235.

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

291 U.S.

ment, that every possible presumption is in favor of its
validity, and fhat though the court may hold views inconsistent with the wisdom of the law, it may not be annulled unless palpably in excess of legislative power."0
The law-making bodies have in the past endeavored to
promote free competition by laws aimed at trusts and
monopolies. The consequent interference with private
property and freedom of contract has not availed with the
courts to set these enactments aside as denying due process.4'1

Where the public interest was deemed to require

the fixing of m'nimum prices, that expedient has been
sustained.2 If the law-making body within its sphere of
government concldes that the conditions or practices in
an industry make unrestricted competition an inadequate
safeguard of the consumer's interests," produce waste
harmful to the public, threaten ultimately to cut off the
supply of a commodity needed by the public, or portend
the destruction of the industry itself, appropriate statutes
passed in an honest effort to correct the threatened consequences may not be set aside because the regulation
adopted fixes prices reasonably deemed by the legislature
to be fair to those engaged in the industry and to the
consuming public. And this is especially so where, as
here, the economic maladjustment is one of price, which
threatens harm to the producer at one end of the series
and the consumer at the other. The Constitution does
'See McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U.S. 539, 547; Tanner v. Little,
240 U.S. 369, 385; Green v. Frazier, 253 U.S. 233, 240; O'Gorman &
Young v. Hartford Fire Ins. Co., 282 U.S. 251, 257-8; Gant v. Oklahoma City, 289 U.S. 98, 102.
"See note 32, supra.
'Public Service Comm'n v. Great Northern Utilities Co., 289 U.S.
130; Stephenson v. Binford, supra. See the Transportation Act, 1920,
41 Stat. 456, §§ 418, 422, amending § 15 of the Interstate Commerce
Act, and compare Anchor Coal Co. v. United States, 25 F. (2d) 462;
New England Divisions Case, 261 U.S. 184, 190, 196.
" See Public Service Comm'n v. &reat Northern Utilities Co., supra.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

McREYNOLDS,

539

J., dissenting.

not secure to anyone liberty to conduct his business in
such fashion as to inflict injury upon the public at large,
or upon any substantial group of the people. Price control, like any other form of regulation, is unconstitutional
only if arbitrary, discriminatory, or demonstrably irrelevant to the policy the legislature is free to adopt, and
hence an unnecessary and unwarranted interference with
individual liberty.
Tested by these considerations we find no basis in the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment for condemning the provisions of the Agriculture and Markets
Law here drawn into question.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.
By an act effective April 10, 1933 (Laws, 1933, Ch. 158),
when production of milk greatly exceeded the demand, the
Legislature created a Control Board with power to "regulate the entire milk industry of New York state, including the production, transportation, manufacture, storage,
distribution, delivery and sale. . . ." The "board may
adopt and enforce all rules and all orders necessary to
carry out the provisions of this article . . . A rule of the
board when duly posted and filed as provided in this section shall have the force and effect of law. . . A violation of any provision of this article or of any rule or order
of the board lawfully made, except as otherwise expressly
provided by this article, shall be a misdemeanor. .... "
After considering "all conditions affecting the milk industry including the amount necessary to yield a reasonable
return to the producer and to the milk dealer . . ." the
board "shall fix by official order the minimum wholesale
and retail prices and may fix by official order the maximum wholesale and retail prices to be charged for milk
handled within the state."

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
MCREYNOLDm,

J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

April 17, this Board prescribed nine cents per quart
as the minimum at which "a store" might sell.* April
19, appellant Nebbia, a small store-keeper in Rochester,
sold two bottles at a less price. An information charged
that by so doing he committed a misdemeanor. A motion
to dismiss, which challenged the validity of both statute
and order, being overruled, the trial proceeded under a
plea of not guilty. The Board's order and statements by
two witnesses tending to show the alleged sale constituted
the entire evidence. Notwithstanding the claim, that
under the XIV Amendment the State lacked power to
* Official Order No. 5, effective April 17, 1933. Ordered that until
further notice and subject to the exceptions hereinafter made, the
following shall be the minimum prices to be charged for all milk and
cream in any and all cities and villages of the State of New York,
of more than One Thousand (1,000) population, exclusive of New
York City and the Counties of Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk:
Milk-Quarts in bottles: By milk dealers to consumers 10 cents;
by milk dealers to stores 8 cents; by stores to consumers
9 cents.
Pints in bottles: By milk dealers to consumers 6 cents; by
milk dealers to stores 5 cents; by stores to consumers 6
cents....

The Control Act declares:
"Milk dealer" means any person who purchases or handles milk
within the state, for sale in this state, or sells milk within the state
except when consumed on the premises where sold. Each corporation which if a natural person would be a milk dealer within the
meaning of this article, and any subsidiary of such corporation, shall
be deemed a milk dealer within the meaning of this definition. A
producer who delivers milk only to a milk dealer shall not be deemed
a milk dealer.
"Producer" means a person producing milk within the State of
New York.
"Store" means a grocery store, hotel, restaurant, soda fountain,
dairy products store and similar mercantile establishment.
"Consumer" means any person, other than a milk dealer, who purchases milk for fluid consumption.

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

prescribe prices at which he might sell pure milk, lawfully
held, he was adjudged guilty and ordered to pay a fine.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the conviction. Among
other things, it said, pp. 264 et seq.:The sale by Nebbia was a violation of the statute "inasmuch as the Milk Control Board had fixed a minimum
price for milk at nine cents per quart."
"The appellant not unfairly summarizes this law by
saying that it first declares that milk has been selling too
cheaply in the State of New York and has thus created
a temporary emergency;'this emergency is remedied by
making the sale of milk at a low price a crime; the question of what is a low price is determined by the majority
vote of three officials. As an aid in enforcing the rate
regulation, the milk industry in the State of New York
is made a business affecting the public health and interest
until March 31, 1934, and the Board can exclude from the,
milk business any violator of the statute or the Board's
orders."
In fixing sale prices the Board "must take into consideration the amount necessary to yield a 'reasonable
return' to the producer and the milk dealer. . . . The
fixing of minimum prices is one of the main features of
the act. The question is whether the act, so far as it
provides for fixing minimum prices for milk, is unconstitutional . . . in that it interferes with the right of the
milk dealer to carry on his business in such manner as
suits his convenience without state interference as to the
price at which he shall sell his milk. The power thus
to regulate private business can be invoked only under
special circumstances. It may be so invoked when the
Legislature is dealing with a paramount industry upon
which the prosperity of the entire State in large measure
depends. It may not be invoked whep we are dealing
with an ordinary business, essentially private in its na-

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

ture. This is the vital distinction pointed out in New
State Ice Co. v. Liebmann (285 U.S. 262, 277)....
"The question is as to whether the business justifies
the particular restriction, or whether the nature of the
business is such that any competent person may, conformably to reasonable regulation, engage therein. The
production of milk is, on account of its great importance
as human food, a chief industry of the State of New York.
. . . It is of such paramount importance as to justify
the assertion that the general welfare and prosperity of
the State in a very large and real sense depend upon it.
. . . The State seeks to protect the producer by fixing
a minimum price for his milk to keep open the -eam of
milk flowing from the farm to the city and to guard the
farmer from substantial loss. . . . Price is regulated to
protect the farmer from the exactions of purchasers
against which he cannot protect himself ...
" Concededly the Legislature cannot decide the question of emergency and regulation, free from judicial review, but this court should consider only the legitimacy
of the conclusions drawn from the facts found.
"We are accustomed to rate regulation in cases of
public utilities and other analogous cases and to the extension of such regulative power into similar fields ...
This case, for example, may, be distinguished from the
Oklahoma ice case (New State Ice Co. v. Liebmarn, 285
U.S. 262, 277), holding that the business of manufacturing and selling ice cannot be made a public business, to
which it bears a general resemblance. The New York
law creates no monopoly; does not restrict production;
was adopted to meet an emergency; milk is a greater
family necessity than ice. . . . Mechanical concepts
of jurisprudence make easy a decision on the strength of
seeming authority. . ..
"Doubtless the statute before us would be condemned
by an earlier generation as a temerarious interference

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

with the rights of property and contract . . .; with the
natural law of supply and demand. But we must not
fail to consider that the police power is the least limitable
of the powers of government and that it extends to all
the great public needs; . . . that statutes . . . aiming
to stimulate the production of a vital food product by
fixing living standards of prices for the producer, are to
be interpreted with that degree of liberality which is
essential to the attainment of the end in view; . . .
"With full respect for the Constitution as an efficient
frame of government in peace and war, under normal conditions or in emergencies; with cheerful submission to
the rule of the Supreme Court that legislative authority
to bridge property rights and freedom of contract can be
justified only by exceptional circumstances and, even
then, by reasonable regulation only, and that legislative
conclusions based on findings of fact are subject to judicial review, we do not feel compelled to hold that the
'due process' clause of the Constitution has left milk
producers unprotected from oppression and to place the
stamp of invalidity on the measure before us.
"With the wisdom of the legislation we have naught
to do. It may be vain to hope by laws to oppose the general course of trade ...
"We are unable to say that the Legislature is lacking
in power, not only to regulate and encourage the production of milk, but also, when conditions require, to regulate
the prices to be paid for it, so that a fair return may be
obtained by the producer and a vital industry preserved
from destruction. . . The policy of non-interference
with individual freedom must at times give way to the
policy of compulsion for the general welfare."
Our question is whether the Control Act, as applied
to appellant through the order of the Board, number five,
deprives him of rights guaranteed by the XIV Amendment. He was convicted of a crime for selling his own

544"

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLD§, J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

property-wholesome milk-in the ordinary course of
business at a price satisfactory to himself and the customer. We are not immediately concerned with any
other provision of the act or later orders. Prices at which
the producer may sell were not prescribed-he may
accept any price-nor was production in any way limited. "To stimulate the production of a vital food product " was not the purpose of the statute. There was an
oversupply of an excellent article. The affirmation is
" that milk has been selling too cheaply . . . and has
thus created a temporary emergency; this emergency is
remedied by making the sale of milk at a low. price a
I
crime."
The opinion below points out that-the statute expires
March 31, 1934, "and is avowedly a mere temporary
measure to meet an existing emergency "; but the basis
of the decision is not explicit. There was no definite finding of an emergency by the court upon consideration of
established facts and no pronouncement that conditions
were accurately reported by a legislative committee. Was
the legislation upheld because only temporary and for
an emergency; or was it sustained upon the view that the
milk business bears a peculiar relation to the public, is
affected with a public interest, and, therefore, sales prices
may be prescribed irrespective of exceptional circumstances? We are left in uncertainty. The two notions
are distinct if not conflicting. Widely different results
may follow adherence to one or the other.
The theory that legislative actiom which ordinarily
would be ineffective because of conflict with the Constitution may become potent if intended to meet peculiar
conditions and properly limited, was lucidly discussed and
its weakness disclosed by the dissenting opinion in Home

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U.S. 398. Sixty
years ago, in Milligan's case, this Court declared it
inimical to Constitutional government and did "write
the vision and make it plain upon tables that he may run
that readeth it."
Milligan, charged with offenses against the United
States committed during 1863 and 1864, was tried, convicted and sentenced to be hanged, by a military commission proceeding under an Act of Congress passed in
1862. The crisis then existing was urged in justification
of its' action. But this Court held the right of trial by
jury did not yield to emergency; and directed his release. "Those great andgood men [who drafted the Constitution] foresaw that troublous times would arise, when
rulers and people would become restive under restraint,
and seek by sharp and decisive measures to accomplish
ends deemed just and proper; and that the principles of
constitutional liberty would be in peril, unless established
by irrepealable law. . . . The Constitution of the United
States is a law for rulers and people, equally in war and
in peace, and covers with. the shield of its protection all
classes of men, at all times, and under all circumstances.
No doctrine, involving more pernicious consequences, was
ever invented by the wit of man than that any of its
provisions can be suspended during any of the great
exigencies of government. Such a doctrine leads directly
to anarchy or despotism." Ex parte Milligan (1866), 4
Wall. 2, 120.
The XIV Amendment wholly disempowered the several
States to "deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law." The assurance of each of
these things is the same. If now liberty or property may
be struck down because of difficult circumstances, we must
expect that hereafter every right must yield to the voice
of an impatient majority when stirred by distressful

546

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLD§, J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

exigency. Amid the turmoil of civil war Milligan was
sentenced: happily this Court intervened. Constitutional guaranties are not to be "thrust to and fro and
carried about with every wind of doctrine." They were
intended to be immutable so long as within our charter.
Rights shielded yesterday should remain indefeasible
today and tomorrow. Certain fundamentals have been
set beyond experimentation; the Constitution has released
them from control by the State. Again and again this
Court has so declared.
Adams v. Tanner, 244 U.S. 590, condemned a Washington initiative measure which undertook to destroy the
business of private employment agencies because it unduly restricted individual liberty. We there said-" The
fundamental guaranties of the Constitution cannot be
freely submerged if and whenever some ostensible justification is advanced and the police power invoked."
Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U.S. 60, held ineffective an
ordinance which forbade negroes to reside in a city block
where most of the houses were occupied by whites. "It
is equally well established that the police power, broad
as it is, cannot justify the passage of a law or ordinance
.which runs counter to the limitations of the Federal Constitution; that principle has been so frequently affirmed
in this court that we need not stop to cite the cases."
Southern Ry. Co. v. Virginia, 290 U.S. 190, 196--" The
claim that the questioned statute was enacted under the
police power of the State and, therefore, is not subject to
the standards applicable to legislation under other powers,
conflicts with the firmly established rule that every State
power is limited by the inhibitions of the XIV Amendment."
Adkoins v. Children's Hospital, 261 U.S. 525, 545."That the right to contract about one's affairs is a part
of the liberty of the individual protected by this clause

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

[Fifth Amendment], is settled by the decisions of this
Court and is no longer open to question."
Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U.S. 390, 399, held invalid a
State enactment (1919), which forbade the teaching in
schools of any language other than English. "While this
Court has not attempted to define with exactness the
liberty thus guaranteed, the term has received much consideration and some of the included things have been
definitely stated. Without doubt, it denotes not merely
freedom from bodily restraint but also the right of the
individual to contract, to engage in any of the common
occupations of life, to acquire useful knowledge, to marry,
establish a home and bring up children, to worship God
according to the dictates of his own conscience, and generally to enjoy those privileges long recognized at common law as essential to the orderly pursuit of happiness
by free men."
Schlesinger v. Wisconsin, 270 U.S.. 230, 240. "The
State is forbidden to deny due process of law or the equal
protection of the laws for any purpose whatsoever."
Near v. Minnesota, 283 U.S. 697, overthrew a Minnesota statute designed to protect the public against obvious
evils incident to the business of regularly publishing
malicious, scandalous and defamatory matters, because
of conflict with the XIV Amendment.
In the following, among many other cases, much consideration has been given to this subject. United States
v. Cohen Grocery Co., 255 U.S. 81, 88; Wolff Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U.S. 522 and 267 U.S. 552; Pierce v.
Society of Siters, 268 U.S. 510; Tyson & Bro. v. Banton,
273 U.S. 418; Fairmont Creamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274
U.S. 1; Ribnik v. McBride, 277 U.S. 350; Williams v.
Standard Oil Co., 278 U.S. 235; Sterling v. Constantin,
287 U.S. 378. All stand in opposition to the views apparently approved below.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

If validity of the enactment depends upon emergency,
then to sustain this conviction we must be able to affirm
that an adequate one has been shown by competent evidence of essential facts. The asserted right is federal.
Such rights may demand and often have received affirmation and protection here. They do not vanish simply because the power of the State is arrayed against them.
Nor are they enjoyed in subjection to mere legislative
findings.
If she relied upon the existence of emergency, the burden was upon the State to establish it by competent evidence. None was presented at the trial. If necessary for
appellant to show absence of the asserted conditions, the
little -grocer was helpless from the beginning-the practical difficulties were too great for the average man.
What circumstances give force to an "emergency"
statute? In how much of the State must they obtain?
Everywhere, or will a single county suffice? How many
farmers must have been impoverished or threatened
violence to create a crisis of sufficient gravity? If three
days after this act became effective another "very grievous murrain" had descended and half of the cattle had
died, would the emergency then have ended, also the prescribed rates? If~prices for agricultural products become
high can consumers claim a crisis exists and demand that
the Legislature fix less ones? Or are producers alone
to be considered, consumers neglected? To these questions we have no answers. When emergency gives
potency, its subsidence must disempower; but no test for
its presence or absence has been offered. How is an
accused to know when some new rule of conduct arrived,
when it will disappear?
It is argued that the repoft of the Legislative Committee, dated April 10th, 1933, disclosed the essential facts.
May one be convicted of crime upon such findings? Ar

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

McREYNOLS,

J., dissenting.

federal rights subject to extinction by reports of committees0 Heretofore, they have not been.
Apparently the Legislature acted upon this report.
Some excerpts from it follow. We have no basis for determining whether the findings of the committee or legislature are correct or otherwise. The court below refrained
from expressing any opinion in that regard, notwithstanding its declaration "that legislative authority to
abridge property rights and freedom of contract can be
justified only by exceptional circumstances and, even
then, by reasonable regulation only, and that legislative
conclusions based on findings of fact are subject to judicial
review." On the other hand it asserted-" This court
should consider only the legitimacy of the conclusions
drawn from the facts found."
In New York there are twelve million possible consumers of milk; 130,000 farms produce it. The average
daily output approximates 9,500,000 quarts. For ten or
fifteen years prior to 1929 or 1930 the per capita consumption steadily increased; so did the supply. "Realizing the marked improvement in milk quality, the public
has tended to increase its consumption of this commodity." "In the past two years the per capita consumption
has fallen off, [possibly] 10 per cent." "These marked
changes in the trend of consumption of fluid milk and
cream have occurred in spite of drastic reductions in retail prices. The obvious cause is the reduced buying
power of consumers." "These cycles of overproduction
and underproduction which average about 15 years in
length, are explained by the human tendency to raise too
many heifers when prices of cows are high and too few
when prices of cows are low. A period of favorable prices
for milk leads to the raising of more than the usual number of heifers, but it is not until seven or eight years later
that the trend is reversed as a result of the falling prices

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

of milk and cows." "Farmers all over the world raise too
many heifers whenever cows pay and raise too few heifers
when cows do not pay."
"During the years 1925 to 1930 inclusive, the prices
which the farmers of the state received for milk were
favorable as compared with the wholesale prices of all
commodities. They were even more favorable as compared with the prices received for other farm products, for
not only in New York but throughout the United States
the general level of prices of farm products has been below
that of other prices since the World War."
"The comparatively favorable situation enjoyed by
the milk producers had an abrupt ending in 1932. Even
before that, in 1930 and 1931, milk prices dropped very
rapidly." "The prices which farmers received for milk
during 1932 were much below the costs of production.
After other costs were paid the producers had practically
nothing left for their labor. The price received for milk
in January, 1933, was little more than half the cost of
production."
"Since 1927 the number of dairy cows in the state has
increased about 10 per cent. The effect of this has been
to increase the surplus of milk." "Similar increases in
the number of cows have occurred generally in the United
States and are due to the periodic changes in number of
heifer calves raised on the farms. Previous experience
indicates that unless some form of arbitrary regulation
is applied, the production of milk will not be satisfactorily
adjusted to the demand for a period of several years."
"Close adjustment of the supply of fluid milk to the
demand is further hindered by the periodic changes in
the number of heifers raised for dairy cows."
"The purpose of this eniergency measure is to bring
partial relief to dairymen from the disastrously low prices
for milk which Ihave prevailed in recent months. It is
recognized that ;the dairy industry 'of the state cannot be

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

placed upon a profitable basis without a decided rise in
the general level of commodity prices."
Thus we are told the number of dairy cows had been
increasing and that favorable prices for milk bring more
cows. For two years notwithstanding low prices the per
capita consumption had been falling. "The obvious
cause is the reduced buying power of consumers." Notwithstanding the low prices, farmers continued to produce
a large surplus of wholesome milk for which there was
no market. They had yielded to "the human tendency
to raise too many heifers" when prices were high and
"not until seven or eight years" after 1930 could one
reasonably expect a reverse trend. This failure of demand
had nothing to do with the quality of the milk-that
was excellent. Consumers lacked funds with which to
buy. In consequence the farmers became impoverished
and their lands depreciated in value. Naturally they became discontented.
The exigency is of the kind which inevitably arises
when one set of men continue to produce more than all
others can buy. The distressing result to the producer
followed his ill-advised but voluntary efforts. Similar situations occur in almost every business. If here we have
an emergency sufficient to empower the Legislature to fix
sales prices, then whenever there is too much or too little
of an essential thing-whether of milk or grain or pork or
coal or shoes or clothes--constitutional provisions may be
declared inoperative and the "anarchy and despotism"
prefigured in Milligan's case are at the door. The futility
of such legislation in the circumstances is pointed out
below.
Block v. Hirsh,256 U.S. 135 and Marcus Brown Holding
Co. v. Feldman, 256 U.S. 170 are much relied on to support emergency legislation. They were civil proceedings;
the first to recover a leased building in the District of

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

Columbia; the second to gain possession of an apartment
house in New York. The unusual conditions grew out
of the World War. The questioned statutes made careful provision for protection of owners. These cases were
analyzed and their inapplicability to circumstances like
the ones before us was pointed out in Tyson & Bro. v.
Banton, 273 U.S. 418. They involved peculiar facts and
must be strictly limited. Pennsylvania Coal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U.S. 393, 416, said of them-" The late decisions upon laws dealing with the congestion of Washington and New York, caused by the war, dealt with laws
intended to meet a temporary emergency and providing
for compensation determined to be reasonable by an impartial board. They went to the verge of the law but fell
far short of the present act."

Is the milk business so affected with public interest that.
the Legislature may prescribe prices for sales by stores?
This Court has approved the contrary view; has emphatically declared that a State lacks power to fix prices in
similar private businesses. United States v. Cohen
Grocery Co., 255 U.S. 81; Adkins v. Children's Hospital,
261 U.S. 525; Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262
U.S. 522; Tyson & Bro. v. Banton, 273 U.S. 418; Fairmont Creamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274 U.S. 1; Ribnik v.
McBride, 277 U.S. 350; Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 218
U.S. 235; New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U.S. 262;
Sterling v. Constantin, 287 U.S. 378, 396.
Wolff Packing Co. v. Industrial Court, 262 U.S. 522,
537.-Here the State's statute undertook to destroy the
freedom to contract by parties engaged in so-called
"essential" industries. This Court held that she had
no such power. "It has never been supposed, since the
adoption *of the Constitution, that the business of the
butcher, or the baker, the tailor, the woodchopper, the

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

McREYNoLDs, J., dissenting.

mining operator or the miner was clothed with such a
public interest that the price of his product or his wages
could be fixed by State regulation. . . . An ordinary
producer, manufacturer or shopkeeper may sell or not sell
as he likes." On a second appeal, 267 U.S. 552, 569, the
same doctrine was restated:--" The system of compulsory
arbitration which the Act establishes is intended to compel, and if sustained will compel, the owner and employees
to continue the business on terms which are not of their
making. It will constrain them not merely to respect
the terms if they continue the business, but will constrain
them to continue the business on those terms. True, the
terms have some qualifications, but as shown in the prior
decision the qualifications are rather illusory and do not
subtract much from the duty imposed. Such a system
infringes the liberty of contract and rights of property
guaranteed by the due process of law clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 'The established doctrine is that
this liberty may not be interfered with, under the guise
of protecting the public interest, by legislative action
which is arbitrary or without reasonable relation to some
purpose within the competency of the State to effect.'"
FairmontCreamery Co. v. Minnesota, 274 U.S. 1, 9.-A
statute commanded buyers of cream to adhere to uniform
prices fixed by a single transaction.-" May the State, in
order to prevent some strong buyers of cream from doing
things which may tend to monopoly, inhibit plaintiff in
error from carrying on its business in the usual way heretofore regarded as both moral and beneficial to the public
and not shown now to be accompanied by evil results as
ordinary incidents? Former decisions here require a negative answer. We think the inhibition of the statute has
no reasonable relation to the anticipated evil-high bidding by some with purpose to monopolize or destroy competition: Looking through form to substance, it clearly
and unmistakably infringes private rights whose exercise

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
MCREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

does not ordinarily produce evil consequences, but the
reverse."
Williams v. Standard Oil Co., 278 U.S. 235, 239.-The
State of Tennessee was declared without' power to prescribe prices at which gasoline might be sold. "It is settled by recent decisions of this Court that a state legislature is without constitutional power to fix prices at
which commodities may be sold, services rendered, or
property used, unless the business or property involved is
'affected with a public interest.'" Considered affirmatively, "it means that a business or property, in order to
be affected with a public interest, must be such or be so
employed as to justify the conclusion that it has been devoted to a public use and its use thereby in effect granted
to the public. .

. Negatively, it does not mean that a

business is affected with a public interest merely because
it is large or because the public are warranted in having
a feeling of concern in respect of its maintenance."
New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann, 285 U.S. 262, 277.Here Oklahoma undertook the control of the business of
manufacturing and selling ice. We denied the power so to
do. "It is a business as essentially private in its nature
as the business of the grocer, the dairyman, the butcher,
the baker, the shoemaker, or the tailor, . : . And this

court has definitely said that the production or sale of
food or clothing cannot be subjected to legislative regulation on the basis of a public use."
Regulation to prevent recognized evils in business has
long been upheld as permissible legislative action. But
fixation of the price at which "A," engaged in an ordinary
business, may sell, in order to enable "B," a producer, to
improve his condition, has not been regarded as within
legislative power. This is not regulation, but management, control, dictation-it amounts to the deprivation

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

555

McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

of the fundamental right which one has to conduct his
own affairs honestly and along customary lines. The
argument advanced here would support general prescription of prices for farm products, groceries, shoes,
clothing, all the necessities of modern civilization,
as well as labor, when some legislature finds and declares
such action advisable and for the public good. This
Court has declared that a State may not by legislative
fiat convert a private business into a public utility.
Michigan Comm'n v. Duke, 266 U.S. 570, 577. Frost
Trucking Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 271 U.S. 583, 592.
Smith v. Cahoon, 283 U.S. 553, 563. And if it be now
ruled that one dedicates his property to public use whenever he embarks on an enterprise which the Legislature
may think it desirable to bring under control, this is but to
declare that rights guaranteed by the Constitution exist
only so long as supposed public interest does not require
their extinction. To adopt such a view, of course, would
put an end to liberty under the Constitution.
Munn v. Illinois (1877), 94 U.S. 113, has been much
discussed in the opinions referred to above. And always
the conclusion was that nothing there sustains the notion
that the ordinary business of dealing in commodities is
charged with a public interest and subject to legislative
control. The contrary has been distinctly announced.
To undertake now to attribute a repudiated implication
to that opinion is to affirm that it means what this Court
has declared again and again was not intended. The
painstaking effort there to point out that certain businesses like ferries, mills, &c. were subject to legislative
control at common law and then to show that warehousing at Chicago occupied like relation to the public would
have been pointless if "affected with a public interest"
only means that the public has serious concern about the
perpetuity and success of the undertaking. That is true
of almost all ordinary business affairs. Nothing in the

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLDS,,

J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

opinion lends support, directly or otherwise, to the notion
that in times of peace a legislature may fix the price of
ordinary commodities-grain, meat, milk, cotton, &c.
Of the assailed statute the Court of Appeals says"It first declares that milk has been selling too cheaply
in the State of New York, and has thus created a temporary emergency; this emergency is remedied by making
the sale of milk at a low price a crime; the question of
what is a low price is determined by the majority vote
of three officials." Also-" With the wisdom of the legislation we have naught to do. It may be vain to hope
by laws to oppose the general course of trade." Maybe,
because of this conclusion, it said nothing concerning the
possibility of obtaining increase of prices to producersthe thing definitely aimed at-through the means
adopted.
But plainly, I think, this Court must have regard to
the wisdom of the enactment. At least, we must inquire
concerning its purpose and decide whether the means proposed have reasonable relation to something within legislative power-whether the end is legitimate, and the
means appropriate. If a statute to prevent conflagrations should require householders to pour oil on their
roofs as a means of curbing the spread of fire when discovered in the neighborhood, we could hardly uphold it.
Here, we find direct interference with guaranteed rights
defended upon the ground that the purpose was to promote the public welfare by increasing milk prices at the
farm. Unless we can affirm that the end proposed is
proper and the means adopted have reasonable relation
to it, this action is unjustifiable.
The court below has not definitely affirmed this necessary relation; it has not attempted to indicate how higher
charges at stores to impoverished customers when the out-

NEBBIA v. NEW YORK.
502

557"

McREzoirs, J., dissenting.

put is excessive and sale prices by producers are unrestrained, can possibly increase receipts at the farm. The
Legislative Committee pointed out as the obvious cause
of decreased consumption, notwithstanding low prices,
the consumers' reduced buying power. Higher store
prices will not enlarge this power; nor will they decrease
production. Low prices will bring less cows only after
several years. The prime causes of the difficulties will
remain. Nothing indicates early decreased output. Demand at low prices being wholly insufficient, tlie proposed
plan is to raise and fix higher minimum prices at stores
and thereby aid -the producer whose output and prices
remain unrestrained! It is not true as stated that "the
State seeks to protect the producer by fixing a minimum
price for his milk." She carefully refrained from doing
this; but did undertake to fix the price after the milk had
passed to other owners. Assuming that the views and
facts reported by the Legislative Committee are correct,
it appears to me wholly unreasonable to expect this legislation to accomplish the proposed end-increase of prices
at the farm. We deal only with Order No. 5 as did the
court below. It. is not merely unwise; it is arbitrary and
unduly oppressive. Better prices may follow but it is
beyond reason to expect them as the consequent of that
order. The Legislative Committee reported-" It is recognized that the dairy industry of the State cannot be
placed upon a profitable basis without a decided rise in
the general level of commodity prices."
Not only does the statute interfere arbitrarily with the
rights of the little grocer to conduct his business according to standards long accepted-complete destruction
may follow; but it takes away the liberty of twelve million consumers to buy a necessity of life in an open market. It imposes direct and arbitrary burdens upon those
already seriously impoverished with the alreged immediate design of affording special benefits to others. To him

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

291 U.S.

with less than nine cents it says-You cannot procure a
quart of mik from the grocer although he is anxious to
accept what you can pay and the demands of your household are urgent! A superabundance; but no child can
purchase from a willing storekeeper below the figure appointed by three men at headquarters! And this is true
although the storekeeper himself may have bought from
a willing producer at half that rate and must sell quickly
or lose his stock through deterioration. The fanciful
scheme is to protect the farmer against undue exactions
by prescribing the price at which milk disposed of by
him at will may be resold!
The statement by the court below that-" Doubtless
the statute before us would be condemned by an earlier
generation as a temerarious interference with the rights
of property and contract . . .; with the natural law of
supply and demand," is obviously correct. But another,
that "statutes aiming to stimulate the production of a
vital food product by fixing living standards of prices for
the producer, are to be interpreted with that degree of
liberality which is essential to the attainment of the end
in view," conflicts with views of Constitutional rights accepted since the beginning. An end although apparently
desirable cannot justify inhibited means. Moreover the
challenged act was not designed to stimulate productionthere was too much milk for the demand and no prospect
of less for several years; also "standards of prices" at
which the producer might sell were not prescribed. The
Legislature cannot lawfully destroy guaranteed rights of
one man with the prime purpose of enriching another,
even if for thb moment, this may seem advantageous to
the. public. And the adoption of any "concept of jurisprudence" which permits facile disregard of the Constitution as long interpreted and respected will inevitably
lead to its destruction. Then, all rights will be subject

HANSEN v. HAFF.
502

Syllabus.

to the caprice of the hour; government by stable laws
will pass.
The somewhat misty suggestion below that condemnation of the challenged legislation would amount to holding "that the due process clause has left milk producers
unprotected from oppression," I assume, was not intended
as a material contribution to the discussion upon the
merits of the cause. Grave concern for embarrassed farmers is everywhere; but this should neither obscure the
rights of others nor obstruct judicial appraisement of
measures proposed for relief. The ultimate welfare of
the producer, like that of every other class, requires dominance of the Constitution. And zealously to uphold this
in all its parts is the highest duty intrusted to the courts.
The judgment of the court below should be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER authorize me to say that

they concur in this opinion.
HANSEN v. HAFF, ACTING- COMMISSIONER. OF
IMMIGRATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 325. Argued February 6, 1934.-Decided March 5, 1934.
1.'A reentry permit does not entitle an alien to remain in the country
if of a prohibited class. P. 561.
2. An alien of a prohibited class is liable to deportation within five
years of entry or reentry. Act of February 5, 1917, § 19; 8 U.S.C.,
§ 155. P. 561.
3. In § 3, Act of February 5, 1917, prohibiting entry to any person
coming into the country "for the purpose of p~ostitution or for
any other immoral purpose," the words "any other immoral pur-

