CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1984

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE TENTH CIRCUIT
No. 83-469.

Argued October 2, 1984-Decided February 20, 1985

Respondent was charged with various federal offenses involving a scheme
to defraud a refinery by submitting false certifications that oil purchased
by the refinery from respondent's company was crude oil when in fact it
was less valuable fuel oil. At the trial in District Court, defense counsel
in his closing argument impugned the prosecutor's integrity and charged
that the prosecutor did not believe in the Government's case. No objection to defense counsel's summation was made at the time, but in rebuttal arguments the prosecutor stated his opinion that respondent was
guilty and urged the jury to "do its job"; defense counsel made no objection. Respondent was convicted on several counts, and on appeal
alleged that he was unfairly prejudiced by the prosecutor's response
to defense counsel's argument. The Court of Appeals reversed and
remanded for a new trial, holding that under case law of that Circuit, such
remaiks constituted misconduct and were plain error, and that appellate
review was not precluded by defense counsel's failure to object at trial.
Held: The prosecutor's remarks during the rebuttal argument, although
error, did not constitute "plain error" that a reviewing court could properly act on under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 52(b), absent a
timely objection by defense counsel; on the record, the challenged argument did not undermine the fairness of the trial. Pp. 6-20.
(a) The kind of advocacy on both sides as shown by the record has no
place in the administration ofjustice and should neither be permitted nor
1

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

470 U. S.

rewarded; the appropriate solution is for the trial judge to deal promptly
with any breach by either counsel. Pp. 6-11.
(b) The issue is not the prosecutor's license to make otherwise improper arguments, but whether his "invited response" taken in context
unfairly prejudiced the defendant. Lawn v. United States, 355 U. S.
339. In order to make an appropriate assessment, the reviewing court
must not only weigh the impact of the prosecutor's remarks, but must
also take into account defense counsel's conduct. The impact of the
evaluation has been that if the prosecutor's remarks were "invited" and
did no more than respond substantially in order to "right the scale," such
comments would not warrant reversing a conviction. Pp. 11-14.
(c) The plain-error exception of Rule 52(b) to the contemporaneousobjection requirement is to be used only in those circumstances in which
a miscarriage of justice would otherwise result. Especially when
addressing plain error, a reviewing court cannot properly evaluate a case
except by viewing such a claimed error against the entire record. When
reviewed under these principles, the prosecutor's remarks in this case
did not rise to the level of plain error. Viewed in context, the remarks,
although inappropriate and amounting to error, were not such as to
undermine the fundamental fairness of the trial and contribute to a
miscarriage of justice. Pp. 14-20.
736 F. 2d 565, reversed.
BURGER, C. J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which WHITE,
POWELL, REHNQUIST, and O'CONNOR, JJ., joined. BRENNAN, J., filed

an opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part, in which MARSHALL
and BLACKMUN, JJ., joined, post, p. 20. STEVENS, J., filed a dissenting
opinion, post, p. 35.

Michael W. McConnell argued the cause pro hac vice for
the United States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor
General Lee, Assistant Attorney General Trott, Deputy
Solicitor General Frey, and Louis M. Fischer.
Burck Bailey argued the cause and filed a brief for
respondent.
CHIEF JUSTICE BURGER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We granted certiorari to review the reversal of respondent's conviction because of prosecutorial comments responding to defense counsel's closing argument impugning the
prosecution's integrity and belief in the Government's case.

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of the Court

I
Respondent Billy G. Young, as vice president and general
manager of the Compton Petroleum Corporation in Abilene,
Texas, contracted in 1976 and 1977 to deliver monthly supplies of "sweet" crude oil to the Apco Oil Corporation refinery
in Cyril, Oklahoma. Some 205,000 barrels of oil were delivered under the contract between January and September
1977, but more than half of the oil delivered to Apco, approximately 117,250 barrels, consisted of fuel oil, an already
refined product less valuable than crude oil. Compton's
invoices accompanying those deliveries falsely certified that
all of the oil was crude. Apco relied on those false certifications and reported to the Federal Energy Administration, in
compliance with Government regulations, 10 CFR §§ 211.66,
211.67, and 212.131 (1976), the amount of crude oil it thought
it was refining each month. The Federal Energy Administration in turn relied on Apco's reports to determine the
national averages of tier categories of refined oil for purposes
of equalizing the cost of crude oil under its entitlement
program.
Respondent's scheme to deceive Apco by selling it cheaper
fuel oil masquerading as "sweet" crude oil was relatively
simple. Respondent arranged with an oil brokerage firrh,
owned by a longtime friend, to procure fuel oil from another
source and sell it to Compton under the false certification
that it was crude oil. Compton would then pay the brokerage firm 10 cents per barrel commission as a fee for the "recertification." Once in Compton's storage tanks, respondent
had the fuel oil disguised as crude oil before delivering it to
Apco by blending condensate, a high gravity liquid taken
from the wellheads of natural gas wells, with the fuel oil.'
In September 1977, after an Apco technician performed a dis'Apco wanted a high gravity crude oil for gasoline production. A high
gravity crude oil yields greater quantities of gasoline and diesel fuels after
refining than does a lower gravity crude oil, which yields more fuel oil and
asphalt. Fuel oil, on the other hand, has a low gravity and was neither
what Apco needed nor what it thought it was buying.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

470 U. S.

tillation test on one of Compton's deliveries, Apco discovered
that it had not been receiving crude oil as required by the
contract, but rather a mixture of fuel oil and condensate.
This discovery prompted the Federal Bureau of Investigation
to launch an investigation which resulted in this prosecution.
On December 1, 1980, respondent and Compton were
charged with 11 counts of mail fraud in violation of 18
U. S. C. § 1341, three counts of willfully and knowingly
making false statements to a Government agency in violation
of 18 U. S. C. § 1001, one count of interstate transportation
of stolen property in violation of 18 U. S. C. § 2314, and with
aiding and abetting in the commission of all 15 counts in violation of 18 U. S. C. §2. A jury trial was held in the District
Court for the Western District of Oklahoma. 2 In his own defense, respondent testified that he had knowingly purchased
fuel oil and delivered it to Apco, but he claimed that he
thought such fuel oil could legitimately be certified as crude
oil. He also believed that if condensate were blended with
fuel oil, the result would be the equivalent of crude oil. Because Apco had not complained about the deliveries before
September 1977, respondent thought that Apco was satisfied
with the quality of oil he was supplying.
At the close of the case, the prosecutor summarized the
evidence against respondent. Defense counsel began his own
summation by arguing that the case against respondent "has
been presented unfairly by the prosecution," and that "[f]rom
the beginning" to "this very moment the [prosecution's]
statements have been made to poison your minds unfairly."
Tr. 542. He intimated that the prosecution deliberately
withheld exculpatory evidence, and proceeded to charge the
prosecution with "reprehensible" conduct in purportedly attempting to cast a false light on respondent's activities. Defense counsel also pointed directly at the prosecutor's table
and stated: "I submit to you that there's not a person in this
2

Prior to trial, the District Court accepted Compton's plea of nol
contendere and imposed a fine.

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of the Court

courtroom including those sitting at this table who think that
Billy Young intended to defraud Apco." Id., at 543-544.
Finally, defense counsel stated that respondent had been
"the only one in this whole affair that has acted with honor
and with integrity" and that "[t]hese complex [Department of
Energy] regulations should not have any place in an effort to
put someone away." Id., at 547.
The prosecutor did not object to defense counsel's summation, but in rebuttal argument he responded to defense
counsel's claim that the Government did not believe in its
own case:
"I think [defense counsel] said that not anyone sitting
at this table thinks that Mr. Young intended to defraud
Apco. Well, I was sitting there and I think he was. I
think he got 85 cents a barrel for every one of those
117,250.91 barrels he hauled and every bit of the money
they made on that he got one percent of. So, I think he
did. If we are allowed to give our personal impressions
since it was asked of me." Id., at 549. (Emphasis
added.)
Continuing with a review of portions of the evidence against
respondent, the prosecutor responded to defense counsel's
statement that Apco was not defrauded:
"I don't know what you call that, I call it fraud.
"You can look at the evidence and you can remember the
testimony, you remember what [the witnesses] said and
what [respondent] admitted they said. I think it's a
fraud." Id., at 550.
Finally, the prosecutor addressed defense counsel's claim
that respondent had acted with honor and integrity. The
prosecutor briefly recapped some of respondent's conduct
and stated:
"I don't know whether you call it honor and integrity, I
don't call it that, [defense counsel] does. If you feel you
should acquit him for that it's your pleasure. I don't

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

470 U. S.

think you're doing your job as jurors in finding facts as
opposed to the law that this Judge is going to instruct
you, you think that's honor and integrity then stand up
here in Oklahoma courtroom and say that's honor and
integrity; I don't believe it." Id., at 552.
In turn, defense counsel did not object to the prosecutor's
statements. Nor did he request any curative instructions
and none were given.
The jury returned a verdict of guilty as to each of the mail
fraud and false statement counts. Respondent was acquitted of interstate transportation of stolen property. Respondent was sentenced to two years' imprisonment on each
count, to be served concurrently, and was fined $39,000.
On appeal, respondent alleged that he was unfairly prejudiced by the prosecutor's remarks made during closing
rebuttal argument. In a per curiam opinion, the Court of
Appeals, one judge dissenting without opinion, reversed the
conviction and remanded for retrial. 736 F. 2d 565 (CA10
1983). The Court of Appeals held that the prosecutor's
statements constituted misconduct and were sufficiently
egregious to constitute plain error. In short, respondent's
failure to object at trial was held not to preclude appellate
review. Rejecting the Government's contention that the
statements were invited by the defense counsel's own closing
argument, the Court of Appeals stated that "the rule is clear
in this Circuit that improper conduct on the part of opposing
counsel should be met with an objection to the court, not a
similarly improper response." Id., at 570.
We granted certiorari, 465 U. S. 1021 (1984). We now
reverse.
II
The principal issue to be resolved is not whether the prosecutor's response to defense counsel's misconduct was appropriate, but whether it was "plain error" that a reviewing
court could act on absent a timely objection. Our task is to

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of the Court

decide whether the standard laid down in United States v.
Atkinson, 297 U. S. 157, 160 (1936), and codified in Federal
Rule of Criminal Procedure 52(b), was correctly applied by
the Court of Appeals.
Nearly a half century ago this Court counselled prosecutors "to refrain from improper methods calculated to produce
a wrongful conviction .

. . ."

Berger v. United States, 295

U. S. 78, 88 (1935). The Court made clear, however, that
the adversary system permits the prosecutor to "prosecute
with earnestness and vigor." Ibid. In other words, "while
he may strike hard blows, he is not at liberty to strike foul
ones." Ibid.
The line separating acceptable from improper advocacy is
not easily drawn; there is often a gray zone. Prosecutors
sometimes breach their duty to refrain from overzealous
conduct by commenting on the defendant's guilt and offering
unsolicited personal views on the evidence. Accordingly,
the legal profession, through its Codes of Professional Responsibility,3 and the federal courts,4 have tried to police
I See, e. g., ABA Model Code of Professional Responsibility DR 7-106(C)
(1980), which provides in pertinent part:
"In appearing in his professional capacity before a tribunal, a lawyer
shall not:
"(3) Assert his personal knowledge of the facts in issue, except when
testifying as a witness.
"(4) Assert his personal opinion as to the justness of a cause, as to the
credibility of a witness, as to the culpability of a civil litigant, or as to the
guilt or innocence of an accused; but he may argue, on his analysis of the
evidence, for any position or conclusion with respect to matters stated
herein."
See also ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 3.4(e) (1984).
'See, e. g., United States v. DiPasquale, 740 F. 2d 1282, 1296 (CA3
1984); United States v. Maccini, 721 F. 2d 840, 846 (CA1 1983); United
States v. Harrison, 716 F. 2d 1050, 1051 (CA4 1983); United States v.
Bagaric,706 F. 2d 42, 58-61 (CA2 1983); United States v. West, 680 F. 2d
652, 655-656 (CA9 1982); United States v. Garza, 608 F. 2d 659, 665-666
(CA5 1979).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984

Opinion of the Court

470 U. S.

prosecutorial misconduct. In complementing these efforts,
the American Bar Association's Standing Committee on
Standards for Criminal Justice has promulgated useful guidelines, one of which states that
"[i]t is unprofessional conduct for the prosecutor to
express his or her personal belief or opinion as to the
truth or falsity of any testimony or evidence or the guilt
Standards for Criminal Justice
of the defendant." ABA
5
3-5.8(b) (2d ed. 1980).
It is clear that counsel on both sides of the table share a
duty to confine arguments to the jury within proper bounds.
Just as the conduct of prosecutors is circumscribed, "[t]he interests of society in the preservation of courtroom control by
the judges are no more to be frustrated through unchecked
improprieties by defenders." Sacher v. United States, 343
U. S.1, 8 (1952). Defense counsel, like the prosecutor, must
refrain from interjecting personal beliefs into the presen-

'The remaining text of ABA Standards for Criminal Justice 3-5.8 (2d
ed. 1980) provides:
"(a) The prosecutor may argue all reasonable inferences from evidence
in the record. It is unprofessional conduct for the prosecutor intentionally
to misstate the evidence or mislead the jury as to the inferences it may
draw.
"(c) The prosecutor should not use arguments calculated to inflame the
passions or prejudices of the jury.
"(d) The prosecutor should refrain from argument which would divert
the jury from its duty to decide the case on the evidence, by injecting issues broader than the guilt or innocence of the accused under the controlling law, or by making predictions of the consequences of the jury's verdict.
"(e) It is the responsibility of the court to ensure that final argument to
the jury is kept within proper, accepted bounds."
The accompanying commentary succinctly explains one of the critical
policies underlying these proscriptions:
"Expressions of personal opinion by the prosecutor are a form of
unsworn, unchecked testimony and tend to exploit the influence of the
prosecutor's office and undermine the objective detachment that should
separate a lawyer from the cause being argued." Id., at 3"89.

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

tation of his case.

Opinion of the Court

See, e. g., ABA Model Code of Profes-

sional Responsibility DR 7-106(C)(3) and (4) (1980), quoted in
n. 3, supra; ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule
3.4(e) (1984). Defense counsel, like his adversary, must not
be permitted to make unfounded and inflammatory attacks on
the opposing advocate.
The kind of advocacy shown by this record has no place in
the administration of justice and should neither be permitted
nor rewarded; a trial judge should deal promptly with any
breach by either counsel. These considerations plainly
guided the ABA Standing Committee on Standards for Criminal Justice in laying down rules of trial conduct for counsel
that quite properly hold all advocates to essentially the same
standards.7 Indeed, the accompanying commentary points
out that "[iut should be accepted that both prosecutor and defense counsel are subject to the same general limitations in
6Of course, when defense counsel employs tactics which would be reversible error if used by a prosecutor, the result may be an unreviewable
acquittal. The prosecutor's conduct and utterances, however, are always
reviewable on appeal, for he is "both an administrator of justice and an
advocate." ABA Standard for Criminal Justice 3-1.1(b) (2d ed. 1980);
cf. Berger v. United States, 295 U. S.78, 88 (1935).
'ABA Standard for Criminal Justice 4-7.8 provides:
"(a) In closing argument to the jury the lawyer may argue all reasonable
inferences from the evidence in the record. It is unprofessional conduct
for a lawyer intentionally to misstate the evidence or mislead the jury as to
the inferences it may draw.
"(b) It is unprofessional conduct for a lawyer to express a personal belief
or opinion in his client's innocence or personal belief or opinion in the truth
or falsity of any testimony or evidence, or to attribute the crime to another
person unless such an inference is warranted by the evidence.
"(c) A lawyer should not make arguments calculated to inflame the
passions or prejudices of the jury.
"(d) A lawyer should refrain from argument which would divert the jury
from its duty to decide the case on the evidence by injecting issues broader
than the guilt or innocence of the accused under the controlling law or by
making predictions of the consequences of the jury's verdict.
"(e) It is the responsibility of the court to ensure that final argument to
the jury is kept within proper, accepted bounds."

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

470 U. S.

the scope of their argument," ABA Standards for Criminal
Justice 4-7.8, p. 4-97, and provides the following guideline:
"The prohibition of personal attacks on the prosecutor
is but a part of the larger duty of counsel to avoid acrimony in relations with opposing counsel during trial and
confine argument to record evidence. It is firmly established that the lawyer should abstain from any allusion to
the personal peculiarities and idiosyncrasies of opposing
counsel. A personal attack by the prosecutor on defense counsel is improper, and the duty to abstain from
such attacks is obviously reciprocal." Id., at 4.99 (footnotes omitted).
These standards reflect a consensus of the profession that
the courts must not lose sight of the reality that "[a] criminal
trial does not unfold like a play with actors following a
script." Geders v. United States, 425 U. S. 80, 86 (1976).
It should come as no surprise that "in the heat of argument,
counsel do occasionally make remarks that are not justified
by the testimony, and which are, or may be, prejudicial to the
accused." Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S. 486, 498
(1897).8

We emphasize that the trial judge has the responsibility to
maintain decorum in keeping with the nature of the proceeding; "the judge is not a mere moderator, but is the governor
of the trial for the purpose of assuring its proper conduct."
Quercia v. United States, 289 U. S. 466, 469 (1933). The
judge "must meet situations as they arise and [be able] to
cope with ...

the contingencies inherent in the adversary

process." Geders v. United States, supra, at 86. Of course,
"hard blows" cannot be avoided in criminal trials; both the
prosecutor and defense counsel must be kept within appropri'Learned Hand observed: "It is impossible to expect that a criminal
trial shall be conducted without some showing of feeling; the stakes are
high, and the participants are inevitably charged with emotion." United
States v. Wexler, 79 F. 2d 526, 529-530 (CA2 1935), cert. denied, 297 U. S.
703 (1936).

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG

1

ate bounds.
(1975).

Opinion of the Court

See Herring v. New York, 422 U. S. 853, 862

III
The situation brought before the Court of Appeals was but
one example of an all too common occurrence in criminal
trials-the defense counsel argues improperly, provoking the
prosecutor to respond in kind, and the trial judge takes no
corrective action. Clearly two improper arguments-two
apparent wrongs-do not make for a right result. Nevertheless, a criminal conviction is not to be lightly overturned
on the basis of a prosecutor's comments standing alone, for
the statements or conduct must be viewed in context; only by
so doing can it be determined whether the prosecutor's conduct affected the fairness of the trial. To help resolve this
problem, courts have invoked what is sometimes called the
"invited response" or "invited reply" rule, which the Court
treated in Lawn v. United States, 355 U. S. 339 (1958).
The petitioners in Lawn sought to have the Court overturn
their criminal convictions for income tax evasion on a number
of grounds, one of which was that the prosecutor's closing
argument deprived them of a fair trial. In his closing
argument at trial, defense counsel in Lawn had attacked
the Government for "persecuting" the defendants. He told
the jury that the prosecution was instituted in bad faith
at the behest of federal revenue agents and asserted that the
Government's key witnesses were perjurers. The prosecutor in response vouched for the credibility of the challenged
witnesses, telling the jury that the Government thought
those witnesses testified truthfully. In concluding that the
prosecutor's remarks, when viewed within the context of
the entire trial, did not deprive petitioners of a fair trial, the
Court pointed out that defense counsel's "comments clearly
invited the reply." Id., at 359-360, n. 15.
This Court's holding in Lawn was no more than an application of settled law. Inappropriate prosecutorial comments,
standing alone, would not justify a reviewing court to reverse
a criminal conviction obtained in an otherwise fair proceed-

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

470 U. S.

ing. Instead, as Lawn teaches, the remarks must be examined within the context of the trial to determine whether
the prosecutor's behavior amounted to prejudicial error. In
other words, the Court must consider the probable effect the
prosecutor's response would have on the jury's ability to
judge the evidence fairly. In this context, defense counsel's
conduct, as well as the nature of the prosecutor's response, is
relevant. See United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310
U. S. 150, 242 (1940); Crumpton v. United States, 138 U. S.
361, 364 (1891). Indeed most Courts of Appeals, applying
these holdings, have refused to reverse convictions where
prosecutors have responded reasonably in closing argument
to defense counsel's attacks, thus rendering it unlikely that
the jury was led astray.9
In retrospect, perhaps the idea of "invited response" has
evolved in a way not contemplated. Lawn and the earlier
cases cited above should not be read as suggesting judicial
approval or-encouragement-of response-in-kind that inevitably exacerbates the tensions inherent in the adversary
process. As Lawn itself indicates, the issue is not the
prosecutor's license to make otherwise improper arguments,
but whether the prosecutor's "invited response," taken in
context, unfairly prejudiced the defendant.
In order to make an appropriate assessment, the reviewing
court must not only weigh the impact of the prosecutor's
remarks, but must also take into account defense counsel's
opening salvo. Thus the import of the evaluation has been
that if the prosecutor's remarks were "invited," and did no
9See, e. g., United States v. DiPasquale, 740 F. 2d, at 1296; United
States v. Maccini, 721 F. 2d, at 846; United States v. Harrison,716 F. 2d,
at 1052; United States v. Trujillo, 714 F. 2d 102, 105 (CAll 1983); United
States v. West, 670 F. 2d 675, 688-689 (CA7 1982); United States v. Tham,
665 F. 2d 855, 862 (CA9 1981); United States v. Schwartz, 655 F. 2d 140,
142 (CA8 1981) (per curiam); United States v. Praetorius,622 F. 2d 1054,
1060-1061 (CA2 1979); United States v. Kim, 193 U. S. App. D. C. 370,
381-383, 595 F. 2d 755, 767-768 (1979).

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of the Court

more than respond substantially in order to "right the scale,"
such comments would not warrant reversing a conviction.10
Courts have not intended by any means to encourage the
practice of zealous counsel's going "out of bounds" in the
manner of defense counsel here, or to encourage prosecutors
to respond to the "invitation." Reviewing courts ought not
to be put in the position of weighing which of two inappropriate arguments was the lesser. "Invited responses" can be
effectively discouraged by prompt action from the bench in
the form of corrective instructions to the jury and, when
necessary, an admonition to the errant advocate.
Plainly, the better remedy in this case, at least with the
accurate vision of hindsight, would have been for the District
Judge to deal with the improper argument of the defense
counsel promptly and thus blunt the need for the prosecutor
to respond. Arguably defense counsel's misconduct could
have warranted the judge to interrupt the argument and admonish him, see Viereck v. United States, 318 U. S. 236, 248
(1943), thereby rendering the prosecutor's response unnecessary. Similarly, the prosecutor at the close of defense
summation should have objected to the defense counsel's improper statements with a request that the court give a timely
warning and curative instruction to the jury. Defense counsel, even though obviously vulnerable, could well have done
likewise if he thought that the prosecutor's remarks were
harmful to his client. Here neither counsel made a timely
objection to preserve the issue for review. See Donnelly v.
DeChristoforo, 416 U. S. 637, 644 (1974). However, interruptions of arguments, either by an opposing counsel or the
presiding judge, are matters to be approached cautiously.
At the very least, a bench conference might have been con"Assuming the prosecutor's remarks exceeded permissible bounds and
defense counsel raised a timely objection, a reviewing court could reverse
an otherwise proper conviction only after concluding that the error was not
harmless.

See United States v. Hasting, 461 U. S. 499 (1983).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of the Court

470 U. S.

vened out of the hearing of the jury once defense counsel
closed, and an appropriate instruction given.
IV
Here the Court of Appeals was not unaware of our holdings
and those of other Circuits, but seemingly did not undertake
to weigh the prosecutor's comments in context. The court
acknowledged defense counsel's obvious misconduct, but it
does not appear that this was given appropriate weight in
evaluating the situation.
We share the Court of Appeals' desire to minimize "invited
responses"; and we agree that the prosecutor's response
constituted error. In addition to departing from the Tenth
Circuit's "rule" prohibiting such remarks," the prosecutor's
comments crossed the line of permissible conduct established
by the ethical rules of the legal profession, as did defense
counsel's argument, see supra, at 6-10, and went beyond
what was necessary to "right the scale" in the wake of
defense counsel's misconduct. Indeed the prosecutor's first
error was in failing to ask the District Judge to deal with
defense counsel's misconduct.
As we suggested earlier, the dispositive issue under the
holdings of this Court is not whether the prosecutor's remarks amounted to error, but whether they rose to the level
of "plain error" when he responded to defense counsel. In
this setting and on this record the prosecutor's responsealthough error-was not "plain error" warranting the court
to overlook the absence of any objection by the defense.
"Until this decision, the Tenth Circuit's "rule" appeared largely as dicta
in earlier opinions. See, e. g., United States v. Rios, 611 F. 2d 1335, 1343
(CA10 1979); United States v. Latimer, 511 F. 2d 498, 503 (CA1O 1975);
United States v. Martinez, 487 F. 2d 973, 977 (CA10 1973); United States
v. Coppola, 479 F. 2d 1153, 1163 (CA10 1973). But see United States v.
Ludwig, 508 F. 2d 140, 143 (CA10 1974) (court recites rule in context of
rejecting Government's argument that the prosecutor's concededly improper remarks were harmless error in light of defense counsel's conduct).

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
Opinion of the Court

The plain-error doctrine of Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 52(b)' 2 tempers the blow of a rigid application of the
contemporaneous-objection requirement. The Rule authorizes the Courts of Appeals to correct only "particularly egregious errors," United States v. Frady, 456 U. S. 152, 163
(1982), those errors that "seriously affect the fairness, integrity or public reputation of judicial proceedings," United
States v. Atkinson, 297 U. S., at 160. In other words, the
plain-error exception to the contemporaneous-objection rule
is to be "used sparingly, solely in those circumstances in
which a miscarriage of justice would otherwise result."
United States v. Frady, 456 U. S., at 163, n. 14. Any unwarranted extension of this exacting definition of plain error
would skew the Rule's "careful balancing of our need to encourage all trial participants to seek a fair and accurate trial
the first time around against our insistence that obvious
injustice be promptly redressed." Id., at 163 (footnote
"2 Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 52(b) provides:
'Plain errors or defects affecting substantial rights may be noticed
although they were not brought to the attention of the court."
The Advisory Comnittee's Notes indicate that the Rule restated existing law as set forth by this Court in Wiborg v. United States, 163 U. S. 632
(1896):
"(A]lthough this question was not properly raised, yet if a plain error
was committed in a manner so absolutely vital to defendants, we feel
ourselves at liberty to correct it." Id., at 658. See Advisory Committee's
Notes on Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 52(b), 18 U. S. C. App., p. 657.
A review of the drafting that led to the Rule shows that the Committee
sought to enable the courts of appeals to review prejudicial errors "so that
any miscarriage of justice may be thwarted." Advisory Committee on
Rules of Criminal Procedure to the Supreme Court of the United States,
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, Preliminary Draft 263 (1943).
The Committee's use of the disjunctive in the phrasing of the Rule is misleading, for as one commentator has noted, this "may simply be a means of
distinguishing for definitional purposes between 'errors' (e. g., exclusion of
evidence) and 'defects' (e. g., defective pleading)," and in either case the
Rule applies only to errors affecting substantial rights. 8B J. Moore,
Moore's Federal Practice 52.02[2], p. 52-4, and n. 7 (2d ed. 1984).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984

Opinion of the Court

470 U. S.

omitted). Reviewing courts are not to use the plain-error
doctrine to consider trial court errors not meriting appellate
review absent timely objection 13-a

practice which we have

criticized as "extravagant protection." Henderson v. Kibbe,
431 U. S. 145, 154, n. 12 (1977); Namet v. United States, 373
U. S. 179, 190 (1963).
Especially when addressing plain error, a reviewing court
cannot properly evaluate a case except by viewing such a
claim against the entire record. We have been reminded:
"In reviewing criminal cases, it is particularly important
for appellate courts to relive the whole trial imaginatively and not to extract from episodes in isolation
abstract questions of evidence and procedure. To turn a
criminal trial into a quest for error no more promotes the
ends of justice than to acquiesce in low standards of
criminal prosecution." Johnson v. United States, 318
U. S. 189, 202 (1943) (Frankfurter, J., concurring).
It is simply not possible for an appellate court to assess the
seriousness of the claimed error by any other means. As the
Court stated in United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co.,
310 U. S., at 240, "each case necessarily turns on its own
facts."
When reviewed with these principles in mind, the prosecutor's remarks cannot be said to rise to the level of plain error.
Viewed in context, the prosecutor's statements, although
inappropriate and amounting to error, were not such as
to undermine the fundamental fairness of the trial and contribute to a miscarriage of justice. See United States v.
Frady, supra, at 163; United States v. Atkinson, supra, at
160.14
"In United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150 (1940), for
example, the Court held that "counsel for the defendant cannot as a rule
remain silent, interpose no objections, and after a verdict has been returned seize for the first time on the point that [the prosecutor's] comments
to the jury were improper and prejudicial." Id., at 238-239.
"The Court of Appeals held that the prosecutor's improper remarks
constituted "plain error" solely because the prosecutor ignored that court's

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
Opinion of the Court

The prosecutor responded with his "personal impressio[n]," Tr. 549, that respondent intended to commit a fraud
to answer defense counsel's accusation that no member of
the prosecution team believed that respondent intended to
defraud Apco. Indeed, the prosecutor made a point to preface his statement by summarizing defense counsel's acerbic
charge and candidly told the jury that he was giving his
((personal impressions" because defense counsel had asked
for them.
Notwithstanding the defense counsel's breach of ethical
standards, the prosecutor's statement of his belief that the
evidence showed Apco had been defrauded should not have
been made; it was an improper expression of personal opinion
and was not necessary to answer defense counsel's improper
assertion that no one on the prosecution team believed
respondent intended to defraud Apco. Nevertheless, we
conclude that any potential harm from this remark was
mitigated by the jury's understanding that the prosecutor
was countering defense counsel's repeated attacks on the
rule prohibiting such responses. A per se approach to plain-error review
is flawed. An error, of course, must be more than obvious or readily apparent in order to trigger appellate review under Federal Rule of Criminal
Procedure 52(b). Following decisions such as United States v. Frady,
United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., supra, and United States v. Atkinson, federal courts have consistently interpreted the plain-error doctrine as requiring an appellate court to find that the claimed error not only
seriously affected "substantial rights," but that it had an unfair prejudicial
impact on the jury's deliberations. Only then would the court be able to
conclude that the error undermined the fairness of the trial and contributed
to a miscarriage of justice. To do otherwise could well lead to having appellate courts indulge in the pointless exercise of reviewing "harmless plain
errors"--a practice that is contrary to the draftsmen's intention behind
Rule 52(b), see n. 12, supra, and one that courts have studiously avoided
and commentators have properly criticized, see, e. g., 8B J. Moore, supra,
§ 52.02[2], at 52-3 to 52-4; 3A C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure
§ 856, p. 344 (2d ed. 1982). It should be noted that the Tenth Circuit
seems to have retreated from its position that improper prosecutorial
remarks are per se "plain error." Mason v. United States, 719 F. 2d 1485,
1489-1490 (1983).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984

Opinion of the Court

470 U. S.

prosecution's integrity and defense counsel's argument that
the evidence established no such crime.
Finally, the prosecutor's comments that respondent had
not acted with "honor and integrity," and his calling attention
to the jury's responsibility to follow the court's instructions
were in response to defense counsel's rhetoric that respondent alone was the sole honorable actor in "this whole affair,"
id., at 547, and that the jury should not find respondent
guilty simply because he could not understand applicable, but
complex, federal regulations. The prosecutor was also in
error to try to exhort the jury to "do its job"; that kind of
pressure, whether by the prosecutor or defense counsel, has
no place in the administration of criminal justice, see, e. g.,
ABA Standards for Criminal Justice 3-5.8(c) and 4-7.8(c).
Given the context of the prosecutor's remarks and defense
counsel's broadside attack, however, we conclude that the
jury was not influenced to stray from its responsibility to be
fair and unbiased. 5
The concerns underlying our reactions against improper
prosecutorial arguments to the jury are implicated here, but
not to the extent that we conclude that the jury's deliberations were compromised. The prosecutor's vouching for the
credibility of witnesses and expressing his personal opinion
concerning the guilt of the accused pose two dangers: such
comments can convey the impression that evidence not presented to the jury, but known to the prosecutor, supports the
charges against the defendant and can thus jeopardize the defendant's right to be tried solely on the basis of the evidence
presented to the jury; and the prosecutor's opinion carries
with it the imprimatur of the Government and may induce
the jury to trust the Government's judgment rather than its
1

,The jury acquitted respondent of the most serious charge he faced, interstate transportation of stolen property. This reinforces our conclusion
that the prosecutor's remarks did not undermine the jury's ability to view
the evidence independently and fairly.

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of the Court

own view of the evidence. See Berger v. United States, 295
U. S., at 88-89.
The prosecutor's statement of his belief that respondent intended to commit a fraud contained no suggestion that he was
relying on information outside the evidence presented at
trial. He supported his comment by referring to respondent's own testimony that Compton received 85 cents a barrel
for its deliveries to Apco and that respondent personally
received a bonus of one percent of Compton's net profits, see
Tr. 501-503; he then summarized portions of the evidence
adduced at trial before suggesting to the jury that the record
established the fraud charged. Although it was improper
for the prosecutor to express his personal opinion about
respondent's guilt, see Berger v. United States, supra, at 88;
ABA Standard for Criminal Justice 3-5.8(b), when viewed
in context, the prosecutor's remarks cannot be read as implying that the prosecutor had access to evidence outside the
record. The jury surely understood the comment for what it
was-a defense of his decision and his integrity-in bringing
criminal charges on the basis of the very evidence the jury
had heard during the trial.
Finally, the overwhelming evidence of respondent's intent
to defraud Apco and submit false oil certifications to the Government eliminates any lingering doubt that the prosecutor's
remarks unfairly prejudiced the jury's deliberations or exploited the Government's prestige in the eyes of the jury.
Not a single witness supported respondent's asserted defense
that fuel oil mixed with condensate could be certified and sold
as crude oil, and several witnesses flatly rejected such a
proposition, see Tr. 352-353, 393-395. Indeed, respondent's
crude oil trader testified that he had never heard of a firm
legally blending fuel oil with condensate and stating that the
mixture was crude oil. See id., at 359. It was undisputed
that respondent failed to advise Apco of what he was actually
supplying and that the oil supplied did not meet the contract
requirements. See id., at 358-359.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

470 U. S.

Moreover, the evidence established beyond any doubt
whatever that respondent deliberately concealed his scheme
to defraud Apco. Apart from enlisting the aid of an oil brokerage firm to "recertify" the fuel oil as crude oil, respondent
on three separate occasions, when questioned by two Apco
officials and by FBI agents, falsely denied that he was
supplying fuel oil instead of crude oil, see id., at 293-294,
357-358, 379, 496, 516. Under these circumstances, the
substantial and virtually uncontradicted evidence of respondent's willful violation provides an additional indication that
the prosecutor's remarks, when reviewed in context, cannot
be said to undermine the fairness of the trial and contribute
to a miscarriage of justice.
V
On this record, we hold that the argument of the prosecutor, although error, did not constitute plain error warranting
the Court of Appeals to overlook the failure of the defense
counsel to preserve the point by timely objection; nor are we
persuaded that the challenged argument seriously affected
the fairness of the trial. Accordingly, the judgment of the
Court of Appeals, ordering a new trial based on the prosecutor's argument, is reversed.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE BRENNAN, with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL and
JUSTICE BLACKMUN join, concurring in part and dissenting

in part.
In his rebuttal argument to the jury, the prosecutor from
the Criminal Fraud Section of the United States Department
of Justice in Washington, D. C., (1) repeatedly stated his
personal opinion that the respondent Billy G. Young was
guilty of fraud, (2) used his prosecutorial "experience in these
matters" in discussing the consequences of Young's conduct,

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

and (3) admonished the jurors that, if they voted to acquit,
they would not be "doing your job as jurors." App. 8-11.
The Government would justify the prosecutor's remarks as
"invited" by the defense counsel's own improper arguments.
In reversing Young's conviction, the Court of Appeals for the
Tenth Circuit rejected this justification and emphasized that
"'[w]e can give no comfort to the proposition that unprofessional conduct upon the part of defense counsel opens the
door to similar conduct by government counsel."' 736 F. 2d
565, 570 (1983), quoting United States v. Ludwig, 508 F. 2d
140, 143 (CA10 1974). Accordingly, the Court of Appeals
held that "improper conduct on the part of opposing counsel
should be met with an objection to the court, not a similarly
improper response." 736 F. 2d, at 570.
This surely is a sensible conclusion and falls well within the
authority of the courts of appeals to define reasonable rules of
courtroom conduct. Because Young's counsel did not object
to the prosecutor's misconduct, however, a reversal was
proper only if the misconduct constituted plain error under
Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 52(b)-that is, if it either
(1) had a prejudicial impact on the verdict when viewed in the
context of the trial as a whole, or (2) "seriously affect[ed] the
... integrity or public reputation of [the] judicial proceedings." United States v. Atkinson, 297 U. S. 157, 160 (1936);
see also United States v. Frady, 456 U. S. 152, 163, n. 11
(1982); United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S.
150, 239 (1940). The Court of Appeals noted the contours of
this inquiry, and its opinion could perhaps be read as implicitly concluding that the prosecutor's misconduct substantially
prejudiced the outcome of the trial or seriously affected the
integrity of the proceedings. The court did not address the
application of the plain-error standard to the facts of this
case, however, but instead cryptically concluded that the
challenged remarks "speak for themselves" and constituted
"plain error." 736 F. 2d, at 570. Accordingly, I would

OCTOBER TERM, 1984

Opinion of

BRENNAN, J.

470 U. S.

remand the case to the Court of Appeals for a proper
plain-error inquiry.1
This analysis leads me to concur in much of the Court's
opinion. Specifically, I agree fully with the Cour's conclusion that federal prosecutors do not have a "right" of reply to
defense improprieties, but must instead object to the trial
judge and request curative action. Moreover, I join with the
Court in concluding that federal courts may set reasonable
rules of rhetorical conduct and that prosecutorial violations of
such rules constitute error. And I concur that the judgment
below cannot stand. However, I must respectfully but
completely disagree with two other aspects of the Court's
resolution of this case. First, the Court appears to adopt
an "invited error" analysis, under which it only grudgingly
acknowledges that the prosecutor acted improperly in this
case. This approach leads the Court to minimize the gravity
of the prosecutor's gross misconduct. Second, instead of
remanding this case to the Court of Appeals, the Court
reaches out to conduct the plain-error inquiry on its own.
Even if the Court's conclusion is correct-and I have sub-

'The Tenth Circuit's statement that the prosecutor's remarks were "sufficiently egregious as to constitute plain error" could be read as concluding
that the evidence of Young's guilt was not overwhelming. 736 F. 2d, at
570. Similarly, the Tenth Circuit's pointed discussion about the frequency
with which "[t]he issue has come before this Court ... in recent years"
could be construed as suggesting that the Government's recurrent violations have seriously threatened the integrity of courtroom proceedings in
that Circuit. Ibid. Although these are possible readings of the opinion
below, the societal costs of reversing a conviction and requiring a retrial
justify the requirement that an appellate court discuss the basis of its reasoning that prosecutorial misconduct is sufficiently egregious as to constitute plain error. Cf. United States v. Hasting, 461 U. S. 499, 528 (1983)
(BRENNAN, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (courts should
exercise supervisory powers to reverse convictions "only after careful
consideration, and balancing, of all the relevant interests"). This Court's
primary function is to ensure that such considered evaluation has been
conducted by the court below. See infra, at 30-31, 33-35.

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

stantial misgivings about the thoroughness of the Court's
analysis-I believe this unexplained departure from our
usual practice misconceives the Court's institutional role and
constitutes poor judicial administration.
I
This Court only infrequently gives plenary consideration to
cases involving standards of prosecutorial conduct. When
we do, it is important that we attempt to set forth with clarity the standards by which federal prosecutors must guide
their trial conduct.
A
The Court granted the Government's petition for a writ of
certiorari to resolve, inter alia, the question "[w]hether a
prosecutor may rebut [improper] closing defense argument
... by responsive argument that would be inappropriate in

the absence of such provocation." Pet. for Cert. (I). The
Government contends that we should recognize "a prosecutor's right to respond" to improper defense arguments and
that, in light of this "right," we should hold that such
responses "are not improper" even if standing alone they
would be impermissible. Brief for United States 15-16.
Today the Court rejects this asserted "right" of reply,
emphasizing instead that prosecutors have no "license to
make otherwise improper arguments" in response to defense
rhetoric, ante, at 12, and holding that the prosecutor's
responses in this case "constituted error," ante, at 14. See
also ante, at 12 (rejecting "judicial approval-or encouragement-of response-in-kind"), 14, 16-20. As the Court observes, "[c]learly two improper arguments-two" apparent
wrongs-do not make for a right result." Ante, at 11. Instead, the Court instructs, the proper recourse is an objection to the trial judge and "prompt action from the bench in
the form of corrective instructions to the jury, and when

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

470 U. S.

necessary, an admonition to the errant advocate." Ante,
at 13.2
The Court today also reaffirms the authority of lower
courts to define and enforce reasonable rules of prosecutorial
conduct. As the Court notes, the prosecutor in this case
departed from Tenth Circuit precedents requiring prosecutors to object to defense misconduct rather than respond
in kind; this action in and of itself "constituted error." Ante,
at 14.
2

Inits 39-page brief, the Government devotes just one footnote in its
effort to demonstrate the unreasonableness of requiring prosecutors to
object to defense misconduct rather than according them a "right" of reply.
See Brief for United States 23, n. 18: "We do not believe that the alternative proposed by the court of appeals (Pet. App. lla)--objecting to an
improper defense argument and requesting an instruction to the jury to
disregard that argument-is sufficient to dispel the unfairness engendered
by an argument like respondent's here. Such an instruction would not
answer the factual assertion of prosecutorial hypocrisy that was made
here." As the Court notes today, however, an objection followed by
admonition or instruction is typically presumed to be sufficient to dispel
prejudice. Ante, at 13. This presumption surely applies to the United
States Government as well as to the accused.
'We have long recognized that the courts of appeals may prescribe
rules of conduct and procedure to be followed by district courts within their
respective jurisdictions. In Cupp v. Naughten, 414 U. S.141, 146 (1973),
for example, the Court observed that within the federal system an "appellate court will, of course, require the trial court to conform to constitutional
mandates, but it may likewise require it to follow procedures deemed
desirable from the viewpoint of sound judicial practice although in nowise
commanded by statute or by the Constitution." And in Donnelly v.
DeChristoforo, 416 U. S.637, 648, n. 23 (1974), the Court emphasized that
"appellate courts, by proper exercise of their supervisory authority,"
should "discourage" prosecutorial misconduct. See also Bartone v. United
States, 375 U. S.52, 54 (1963) (per curiam) (courts of appeals have "broad
powers of supervision" over federal proceedings); Mesarosh v. United
States, 352 U. S.1, 14 (1956); McNabb v. United States, 318 U. S.332, 340
(1943) ("Judicial supervision of the administration of criminal justice in the
federal courts implies the duty of establishing and maintaining civilized
standards of procedure and evidence").

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

B
I fully agree with these conclusions. The Court goes on to
suggest, however, that courts should apply an "invited error"
analysis in determining the consequences of prosecutorial violations of these standards. Under this analysis, courts not
only should determine the possible effect of the misconduct
"on the jury's ability to judge the evidence fairly," but also
should consider (1) "[d]efense counsel's conduct," and (2)
whether the prosecutor "responded reasonably" under the
circumstances. Ante, at 12. The conclusion is that prosecutorial misconduct, if "invited" by defense misconduct, will be
excused if it "did no more than respond substantially in order
to 'right the scale."' Ante, at 12-13. See also ante, at 14.
I believe the Court's "invited error" analysis is critically
flawed: it overlooks the ethical responsibilities of federal
prosecutors and threatens to undercut the prohibition of
prosecutorial misconduct in the first place. In addition, the
Court's analysis is misapplied to the facts of this case.
To begin with, while the Court correctly observes that
both sides are subject to ethical rules of rhetorical conduct, it
fails completely to acknowledge that we have long emphasized that a representative of the United States Government
is held to a higher standard of behavior:
"The United States Attorney is the representative not
of an ordinary party to a controversy, but of a sovereignty whose obligation to govern impartially is as
compelling as its obligation to govern at all; and whose
interest, therefore, in a criminal prosecution is not that
it shall win a case, but that justice shall be done....
Consequently, improper suggestions, insinuations and, especially, assertions of personal knowledge
are apt to carry much weight against the accused when
they should properly carry none." Berger v. United
States, 295 U. S. 78, 88 (1935).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

470 U. S.

Accord, Viereck v. United States, 318 U. S. 236, 248 (1943).
Cf. ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 3.8
comment (1984) ("A prosecutor has the responsibility of a
minister of justice and not simply that of an advocate");
ABA Model Code of Professional Responsibility EC 7-13
(1980) (prosecutor owes a "special duty"); ABA Standard for
Criminal Justice 3-5.8, p. 3.88 (2d ed. 1980). I believe the
Court trivializes these high standards by suggesting that a
violation may be overlooked merely because the prosecutor
4
decided sua sponte that he had to "right the scale."
Moreover, the Court's suggestion that lower courts should
evaluate prosecutorial misconduct to determine whether it
was "reasonabl[e]" and "necessary to 'right the scale,"' ante,
at 12, 14, is palpably inconsistent with the Court's conclusion
that such misconduct "constitute[s] error." Ante, at 14; see
also ante, at 11, 14, 16-20. As the Court observes, prosecutorial rhetoric of the sort in this case has "no place in the
administration of justice and should neither be permitted nor
rewarded." Ante, at 9. Such errors in appropriate cases
might be determined to be harmless, but it is a contradiction
in terms to suggest they might be "reasonabl[e]" or "necessary to 'right the scale."' Ante, at 12, 14.
There was certainly nothing "reasonabl[e]" in this case
about the prosecutor's responses to the concededly improper
defense arguments. The defense counsel's most serious
assertion was that the prosecutor did not believe Young had
4

Excusing a federal prosecutor's courtroom misconduct merely on the
ground that the prosecutor was responding to his adversary suggests, it
seems to me, that a trial is something like a schoolyard brawl between two
children. Such an excuse smacks of the "sporting theory ofjustice," a theory long recognized as "only a survival of the days when a lawsuit was a
fight between two clans." Pound, The Causes of Popular Dissatisfaction
with the Administration of Justice, 29 A. B. A. Rep. 395, 404-406 (1906).
If unethical arguments by the prosecutor in response to defense remarks
constitute error, as the Court concedes, it is unclear why the error should
be excused because the prosecutor wanted to "right the scale."

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

intended to defraud Apco. 5 The prosecutor's initial statement that he personally believed that Young had indeed intended to defraud Apco, while itself error, see ante, at 16-18,
might be characterized as falling within the bounds of restrained reply. But the prosecutor was not content to leave
matters there. First, he repeatedly emphasized his personal
opinion that Young was guilty of fraud.7 Second, he made
predictions about the continuing effects of Young's conduct
based on his prosecutorial "experience in these matters."8
Third, he warned the jurors that they would not be "doing
your job as jurors" if they failed to convict Young. 9
,,"The indictment says that Billy Young is charged with intending to
devise a scheme to defraud Apco and to obtain money and property by false
and fraudulent pretenses. And I submit to you that there's not a person in
this courtroom including those sitting at this table who think that Billy
Young intended to defraud Apco." App. 5. The defense counsel also
argued that the Government had tried the case "unfairly," and that Young
was "the only one in this whole affair that has acted with honor and with
integrity." Id., at 4-7.
"'I think he said that not anyone sitting at this table thinks that Mr.
Young intended to defraud Apco. Well, I was sitting there and I think he
was." Id., at 8.
7"I think he got 85 cents a barrel for every one of those 117,250.91
barrels he hauled and every bit of the money they made on that he got one
percent of. So, I think he did. If we are allowed to give our personal
impressions since it was asked of me ....
I don't know what you call that,
I call it fraud. You can look at the evidence and you can remember the
testimony, you remember what they said and what he admitted they said.
I think it's a fraud.... That's the whole point of the prosecution, it was
a fraud." Id., at 8-9.
"He said-Mr. Bailey said Apco didn't lose, says doesn't think anyone
will come back. Well, what he thinks they won't come back but my experience in these matters is when the government does something like this
they're going to come back. All that money that Apco got for this stripper
and new oil, Al Green at the Apco trust he's going to get some kind of
invoices. That's what I think." Id., at 10.
9"i don't know whether you call it honor and integrity, I don't call it
that, Mr. Bailey does. If you feel you should acquit him for that it's your
pleasure. I don't think you're doing your job as jurors in finding facts as

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of

BRENNAN,

J.

470 U. S.

These arguments, which separately and cumulatively so
clearly violated the disciplinary rules of our profession,"
deserve stern and unqualified judicial condemnation. Yet
the Court reserves the force of its ire for criticism of the
defense counsel's behavior: the Court castigates the defense
counsel's "attacks," "opening salvo," "going 'out of bounds,"'
"misconduct," "obviously vulnerable" position, "obvious misconduct," "accusation[s]," "acerbic charge[s]," "breach of ethical standards," "improper assertion[s]," "repeated attacks,"
and "broadside attack[s]." Ante, at 12, 13, 14, 17, 18. In
comparison, the Court appears only reluctantly to concede
that "we agree that the prosecutor's response constituted
error" because his remarks were "inappropriate," "should not
have been made," and were "not necessary." Ante, at 14,
16, 17. This disparity of tone illustrates one of the major
abuses of the "invited error" doctrine, an abuse often noted
by the commentators." Rather than apply the doctrine as a
opposed to the law that this Judge is going to instruct you, you think that's
honor and integrity then stand up here in Oklahoma courtroom and say
that's honor and integrity; I don't believe it." Id., at 10-11.
1
See, e. g., ABA Model Code of Professional Responsibility DR
7-106(C) (1980), stating in relevant part:
"In appearing in his professional capacity before a tribunal, a lawyer
shall not:
"(3) Assert his personal knowledge of the facts in issue, except when
testifying as a witness.
"(4) Assert his personal opinion as to the justness of a cause, as to the
credibility of a witness, as to the culpability of a civil litigant, or as to the
guilt or innocence of an accused; but he may argue, on his analysis of the
evidence, for any position or conclusion with respect to matters stated
herein."
See also ABA Model Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 3.4(e) (1984)
(incorporating standards set forth above); ABA Standards for Criminal
Justice 3-5.8(b) (2d ed. 1980) ("It is unprofessional conduct for the prosecutor to express his or her personal belief or opinion as to the truth or falsity
of any testimony or evidence or the guilt of the defendant").
11
See, e. g., J. Stein, Closing Argument-The Art and the Law § 88
(1982); Alschuler, Courtroom Misconduct by Prosecutors and Trial Judges,

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

limited corrective, courts frequently employ it as a rule of
unclean hands that altogether prevents a defendant from
successfully challenging prosecutorial improprieties. Such
use of the doctrine results, as it has today, in minimizing
the gravity of virtually unchecked prosecutorial appeals
going far beyond a "fair" response to the defense counsel's
arguments.12
In further support of its analysis, the Court contends that
while the underlying "concerns" of the legal and ethical strictures against improper prosecutorial arguments "are implicated here," they are not implicated in a serious way. Ante,
at 18. The Court maintains, for example, that the prosecutor's arguments "contained no suggestion that he was
relying on information outside the evidence presented at
trial." Ante, at 19. I doubt very much, however, that the
prosecutor ever testified or presented evidence about "my
experience in these matters." App. 10. Moreover, the proscription against prosecutorial assertions of personal belief is
obviously not concerned solely with references to nonrecord
evidence. As the Court itself recognizes, "the prosecutor's
opinion carries with it the imprimatur of the Government and
may induce the jury to trust the Government's judgment
rather than its own view of the evidence." Ante, at 18.
Thus "improper suggestions, insinuations and, especially,
assertions of personal knowledge are apt to carry much
weight against the accused when they should properly carry
none." Berger v. United States, 295 U. S., at 88.13 The
50 Texas L. Rev. 629, 657-658 (1972); Crump, The Function and Limits of
Prosecution Jury Argument, 28 Sw. L. Rev. 505, 531-533 (1974).
Under this sort of application of the invited-response rule, "[tihe prosecutor may deduce... that he would do well to watch carefully for certain
mistakes that the defense counsel may make, and, instead of objecting if
that course is open to him, attempt to take advantage of that mistake
."
Comment, Limitations Upon the Prosecutor's Summation to the
Jury, 42 J. Crim. L., C. & P. S. 73, 81 (1951).
"See also United States v. Bess, 593 F. 2d 749, 755 (CA6 1979) ("Implicit in [a prosecutor's] assertion of personal belief that a defendant is

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

470 U. S.

Court today acknowledges these risks, but then decrees that
the prosecutor's assertions in this case cannot be construed
as having "exploited the Government's prestige in the eyes of
the jury." Ante, at 19. This cavalier assertion is wholly at
odds with a longstanding presumption to the contrary, see
Berger v. United States, supra, and the Court should at least
provide a more reasoned basis for this striking departure.
Similarly, the prosecutor's admonition that the jurors
would not be "doing your job as jurors" if they voted to acquit
was neither invited nor excusable, as the Court concedes.
Ante, at 18. Many courts historically have viewed such
warnings about not "doing your job" as among the most egregious forms of prosecutorial misconduct. See, e. g., Annot.,
85 A. L. R. 2d 1132 (1962 and Supp. 1979). How possibly,
then, can the Court characterize remarks such as these as a
"defense" by the prosecutor "of his decision and his integrity
in bringing criminal charges"? Ante, at 19.
II
Although Young's counsel did not object to the prosecutor's arguments, those arguments nevertheless constitute
plain error that require reversal of Young's conviction if they
may be said either (1) to have created an unacceptable danger
of prejudicial influence on the jury's verdict, or (2) to have
"seriously affect[ed] the... integrity or public reputation of
[the] judicial proceedings." United States v. Atkinson, 297
U. S., at 160. The Tenth Circuit did not address the application of these standards to the facts of this case, see n. 1,
supra, reversing instead simply on its conclusory finding that
the prosecutor committed "plain error."
When we detect legal error in a lower court's application of
the plain-error or harmless-error rules, as here, the proper
guilty, is an implied statement that the prosecutor, by virtue of his experience, knowledge and intellect, has concluded that the jury must convict.
The devastating impact of such 'testimony' should be apparent").

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG

1

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

course is to set forth the appropriate standards and then
remand for further proceedings. We have followed this procedure in countless cases.14 But the Court today reaches out
without explanation and inappropriately decides the issue
itself. Its analysis is flawed in several respects, and these
flaws demonstrate the wisdom of leaving such inquiries in the
first instance to the lower courts.
First, the Court's conclusion that the prosecutor's arguments could not have prejudiced Young rests in large part on
its "invited error" analysis. The gravamen of its reasoning
apparently is that, since the defense misconduct supposedly
canceled out much of the prosecutor's excesses, the prosecutor's remarks were tied to the record evidence, and the
jurors "surely understood" the prosecutor's rhetoric "for
what it was," the prosecutor's unethical behavior could not
likely have had a prejudicial impact on the jurors' deliberations. Ante, at 19. I have already demonstrated the fallacy
of these underlying premises.
Second, the plain-error inquiry necessarily requires a careful review of the entire record to determine the question of
possible prejudice. The Court in two brief paragraphs summarizes its review of the record and proclaims that the evidence of Young's guilt was "overwhelming" and supported
the conviction "beyond any doubt whatever." Ante, at 19,
20. The Court invokes a curious analysis in support of this
pronouncement: the fact that the jury acquitted Young on
"4 See, e. g., Kentucky v. Whorton, 441 U. S. 786, 789-790 (1979) (per
curiam); Moore v. Illinois, 434 U. S. 220, 232 (1977); Moore v. United
States, 429 U. S. 20, 23 (1976) (per curiam); Coleman v. Alabama, 399
U. S. 1, 11 (1970); Foster v. California,394 U. S.440, 444 (1969); Gilbert
v. California,388 U. S.263, 274 (1967); United States v. Wade, 388 U. S.
218, 242 (1967); Fergusonv. United States, 375 U. S. 962 (1964) (order).
See also Connecticutv. Johnson, 460 U. S.73, 102 (1983) (POWELL, J., dissenting) (question of an error's possible prejudice is "[n]ormally. ..a question more appropriately left to the courts below," in part because "t]here
may be facts and circumstances not apparent from the record before us").

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

"the most serious charge he faced ...

470 U. S.

reinforces our conclu-

sion that the prosecutor's remarks did not undermine the
jury's ability to view the evidence independently and fairly."
Ante, at 18, n. 15. If the evidence against Young was so
"overwhelming," it is difficult to perceive why the jury would
have returned a partial acquittal. The jury's decision can
just as naturally be interpreted to suggest that the evidence
was close and the verdict a compromise, thus supporting a
belief that the prosecutor's assertion of personal knowledge
and his exhortation to "do your job" did in fact have a prejudicial impact. Moreover, the Court minimizes the fact that
mail fraud and the making of false statements are specificintent crimes and that good faith therefore stands as a complete defense. See, e. g., United States v. Martin-Trigona,
684 F. 2d 485, 492 (CA7 1982) (mail fraud); United States v.
Lange, 528 F. 2d 1280, 1287-1288 (CA5 1976) (false statements). The question of Young's specific intent to defraud
necessarily turned on witness credibility, and in this context
the prosecutor's misconduct may well have had a prejudicial
impact on the jurors' deliberations. Although the Court is
surely correct in emphasizing the impropriety of the crude oil
condensate blending scheme that Young participated in,
there was significant evidence that, if believed, might well
have suggested Young's innocent though ignorant motives."5
"Young's defense was that he believed that the blending of crude oil
condensate with Number 4 fuel oil, an "unfinished" oil under Government
regulations, would yield a blend that could still properly be certified as
"crude" under then-extant regulations. Young maintained that Kenneth
Ross, then an officer at Prime Resources Corporation, had convinced him
that such certification was permissible. Tr. 78, 514. Ross denied that he
had so persuaded Young, and the dispute turned on the jurors' credibility
determinations. There was substantial testimony from Government witnesses that the blending of crude oil condensate with other oil was a common industry practice, albeit not the blending of condensate with fuel oil.
Id., at 55, 59, 69, 361, 392. There was also testimony that the highestquality crude condensate, when mixed with Number 4 fuel oil, yielded a
blend superior to some lower-quality crudes. Id., at 55-56, 384, 427.
Moreover, Apco received this blend for seven months, tested it, and

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

Third, the Court altogether fails to consider whether the
prosecutor's gross misconduct and flouting of the professional
canons "seriously affect[ed] the ... integrity or public repu-

tation of [the] judicial proceedings." United States v. Atkinson, 297 U. S., at 160; see also United States v. Frady, 456
U. S., at 162, n. 11; Brasfield v. United States, 272 U. S.
448, 450 (1926). From the citations in the Tenth Circuit's
opinion, see 736 F. 2d, at 570, it would appear that prosecutorial improprieties of the sort committed in this case may
present a recurring problem. This Court is in no position at
this time to pass judgment on the gravity of the problem and
the panel's apparent concern that the prosecutor's misconduct in this case compromised the integrity and public reputation of the Circuit's administration of justice. Clearly a
remand to address the question is necessary."
These deficiencies in the Court's plain-error analysis reinforce the conviction that it was poor judicial administration
reported no untoward results; it was only when another company attempted to pass off unadulterated low-quality fuel oil that Apco became
concerned. Id., at 364-366, 412. Young, who had an eighth-grade education, maintained that he had thought Government regulations permitted
his manner of certification; Government witnesses agreed that it was difficult to "make a lick of sense" out of the complex standards. Id., at 367.
Finally, Government witnesses themselves testified that they did not believe that Young had intended to defraud Apco, that many others had been
aware of the scheme, and that others had taken advantage of Young. Id.,
at 57-58, 78-80.
'The Court suggests that plain error may be found only where the
error "had an unfair prejudicial impact on the jury's deliberations." Ante,
at 17, n. 14. Plain error also may be grounded, however, on those errors
that "seriously affect the ...integrity or public reputation of [the] judicial
proceedings." United States v. Atkinson, 297 U. S. 157, 160 (1936). I
believe that certain extreme circumstances, such as egregious misbehavior
or a pattern and practice of intentional prosecutorial misconduct that has
not been deterred through other remedies, may well so seriously undermine the integrity of judicial proceedings as to support reversal under the
plain-error doctrine. Cf. United States v. Hasting, 461 U. S., at 527
(BRENNAN, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part) (supervisory
powers).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984

Opinion of BRENNAN, J.

470 U. S.

for the Court to embark on its inquiry in the first place. Our
traditional practice has been to leave fact-bound questions of
possible prejudicial error to the lower courts on remand.
See supra, at 30-31, and n. 14. Two important considerations undergird this practice. First, the function of this
Court is not primarily to correct factual errors in lower court
decisions, but instead to resolve important questions of
federal law and to exercise supervisory power over lower
federal courts. Our institutional role properly is focused on
ensuring clarity and uniformity of legal doctrine, and not on
the case-specific process of reviewing the application of law
to the particularized facts of individual disputes-one of the
functions performed quite capably by the federal courts of
appeals. This allocation of responsibilities can result in subtle but vitally important differences in institutional outlook,
differences that should not be shortcut simply because a
majority decides the evidence of a particular defendant's
guilt is "overwhelming" and "established beyond any doubt
whatever." Ante, at 19, 20.
Second, if the Court is to be evenhanded in its willingness
to review lower courts' plain-error and harmless-error determinations, we will be required to undertake such analyses
with ever-increasing frequency. Yet this Court simply is
not institutionally capable of conducting the sort of detailed
record analyses required in properly administering the plainerror and harmless-error doctrines.
"This Court is far too busy to be spending countless
hours reviewing trial transcripts in an effort to determine the likelihood that an error may have affected a
jury's deliberations.... As a practical matter, it is impossible for any Member of this Court to make the kind
of conscientious and detailed examination of the record
that should precede a determination that there can be no
reasonable doubt that the jury's deliberations as to [the]
defendant were not affected by the alleged error. And
it is an insult to the Court of Appeals to imply, as the

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

Court does today, that it cannot be trusted with a task
that would normally be conducted on remand." United
States v. Hasting, 461 U. S. 499, 516-517 (1983)
(STEVENS, J., concurring in judgment).
Surely the Court's time could have been better spent than on
familiarizing ourselves in this case with the details of crudeoil refining and blending processes; the relative gravities and
qualities of sweet crude, crude-oil condensate, and Number 4
fuel oil; long-rescinded Government regulations; various oilindustry testing procedures; and the complex of companies
and individuals with whom Billy G. Young interactedmatters that are all important to a fair evaluation of
Young's defense, but that necessarily are limited to the
facts of this isolated case.
dissenting.
In Namet v. United States, 373 U. S.179 (1963), the Court
recognized that even in the absence of an objection, trial
error may require reversal of a criminal conviction on either
of two theories: (1) that it reflected prosecutorial misconduct,
or (2) that it was obviously prejudicial to the accused. Id., at
186-187. In that case, after determining that the challenged
error did not satisfy either standard, id., at 188-189, the
Court concluded that it saw "no reason to require such extravagant protection against errors which were not obviously
prejudicial and which the petitioner himself appeared to disregard." Id., at 190.1 It therefore affirmed the judgment of
the Court of Appeals in that case.
JUSTICE STEVENS,

IThe Court appended the following footnote:
"Finding, as we do, that this case involves neither misconduct by the
prosecution nor inferences of material importance, we need not pass upon
the holding in United States v. Maloney, [262 F. 2d 535 (CA2 1959)], that a
failure to give proper curative instructions when such elements are present
constitutes plain error." 373 U. S., at 190, n. 10.
See also Henderson v. Kibbe, 431 U. S.145, 154, n. 12 (1977).

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
STEVENS, J., dissenting

470 U. S.

In this case the Court has unanimously concluded that the
prosecutor's response to defense counsel's closing argument
constituted error.' It has thus decided against the Government the principal question that its petition for a writ of
certiorari presented.3 The Court has also unanimously concluded that "the prosecutor's comments crossed the lines
of permissible conduct established by the ethical rules of
the legal profession." Ante, at 14; see also ante, at 25-26
(BRENNAN, J., joined by MARSHALL and BLACKMUN, JJ.,
concurring in part and dissenting in part). Thus, at least one
of the elements that was absent in Namet is present here.
With respect to the second element-prejudice-there is
disagreement and, I submit, some confusion within the
Court. The majority opinion carefully avoids denying that
the prosecutorial misconduct was prejudicial to the accused.
Instead, it concludes that the error did not "unfairly" prejudice the jury, ante, at 19, partly because the error was invited by defense counsel's misconduct and partly because
the Court is convinced that respondent is guilty.4 JUSTICE
BRENNAN, on the other hand, correctly explains why this
Court should permit the Court of Appeals to decide whether
2

Ante, at 14, 16-20; ante, at 26-30 (BRENNAN, J., joined by MARSHALL
and BLACKMN, JJ., concurring in part and dissenting in part).
3The principal question asked:
"Whether a prosecutor may rebut closing defense argument impugning the
integrity of the prosecution and asserting that the prosecutors themselves
do not believe in the defendant's guilt by responsive argument that would
be inappropriate in the absence of such provocation."
4
Ante, at 17-19. I do not, of course, suggest that it is improper for the
Court to evaluate the probable impact of the error on the outcome of the
case. It is important to remember, however, that the question is not
whether the judge is persuaded that the defendant is guilty, but "rather
what effect the error had or reasonably may be taken to have had upon the
jury's decision. The crucial thing is the impact of the thing done wrong on
the minds of other men, not on one's own, in the total setting." Kotteakos
v. United States, 328 U. S. 750, 764 (1946).

UNITED STATES v. YOUNG
1

STEVENS,

J., dissenting

the error was "plain" or "harmless." He therefore would
send the case back to that court to perform that task.'
In my opinion, it is perfectly clear that the Court of Appeals has already made that determination. I do not understand how anyone could dispute the proposition that the prosecutor's comments were obviously prejudicial. Instead, the
question is whether the degree of prejudice, buttressed by
the legitimate interest in deterring prosecutorial misconduct,
is sufficient to warrant reversal. On that question, the
factor of judgment necessarily plays a critical role.' I am
persuaded that a due respect for the work of our circuit
judges, combined with a fair reading of their opinion in this
case, warrants the conclusion that they have already done

exactly what JUSTICE BRENNAN would have them do again.
The Court of Appeals' opinion took note of defense counsel's failure to make an objection to the improper argument,
but nevertheless accepted the contention on appeal that "the
prosecutor's conduct substantially prejudiced the Appellant
at trial." App. to Pet. for Cert. 9a. After reviewing relevant portions of the transcript that "speak for themselves,"
id., at 10a, and considering other Tenth Circuit cases dealing
with "prejudicial statements made by the prosecution during
'Ante, at 30-35 (BRENNAN, J., joined by MARSHALL and BLACKMUN,
JJ., concurring in part and dissenting in part).
'The Court has commented on the difficulty of applying the harmlesserror standard:
"This, in part, because it is general; but in part also because the
discrimination it requires is one of judgment transcending confinement by
formula or precise rule. United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310
U. S.150, 240. That faculty cannot ever be wholly imprisoned in words,
much less upon such a criterion as what are only technical, what substantial
rights; and what really affects the latter hurtfully. Judgment, the play of
impression and conviction along with intelligence, varies with judges and
also with circumstance. What may be technical for one is substantial for
another; what minor and unimportant in one setting crucial in another."
Koteakos v. United States, 328 U. S., at 761.

OCTOBER TERM, 1984
STEVENS,

J., dissenting

470 U. S.

argument to the jury," ibid., the Court of Appeals expressly
concluded that "the above quoted remarks were sufficiently
egregious as to constitute plain error." Ibid. I have no
doubt that the judges of the Court of Appeals for the Tenth
Circuit are familiar with the difference between "harmless
error" and "plain error."7 Rather than asking those judges
to supplement the opinion they have already written, I would
simply affirm their judgment.

7 Rule 52 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, which is entitled
"Harmless Error and Plain Error," reads as follows:
"(a) Harmless Error. Any error, defect, irregularity or variance which
does not affect substantial rights shall be disregarded.
"(b) Plain Error. Plain errors or defects affecting substantial rights
may be noticed although they were not brought to the attention of the
Court."
The note of the Advisory Committee to Rule 52(b) reads as follows:
"This rule is a restatement of existing law, Wiborg v. United States, 163
U. S. 632, 658 ... ; Hemphill v. United States, 112 F. 2d 505, C. C. A.
9th, reversed 312 U. S. 657,. . . conformed to 120 F. 2d 115, certiorari denied 314 U. S. 627 ....
Rule 27 of the Rules of the Supreme Court, 28
U. S. C. foil. § 354, provides that errors not specified will be disregarded,
'save as the court, at its option, may notice a plain error not assigned or
specified.' Similar provisions are found in the rules of several circuit
courts of appeals." 18 U. S. C. App., p. 657.

