480

SUPREME COURT.

Tim SoclxrTY FOR THE PROPAGATION Or THE GosPEx. n FoREGN
PARTs P nAFus v8. THE Town oF PAWLET AND OZIAS

Ejeetment to recovir a lot of land, being the first division lot laid out to the right
of the society in the town of Pawlet. The plaintiff are described in the writ
as "The Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts, a corporation duly established in England within the dominions of the king of.the
United Kingdom of GreatBritain and Ireland, the members of which society
are aliens, and.subjects of the saidking." The defendants pleaded the general issue of not guilty. The generdl issue admits the competency of the plaintiffito sue, in the corporate capacity in which they have sued.
If the defendants meant to insist on the want of a corporate capacity in the plain.
tiffs to sue, it should have been insisted upon by a special plea in abatement
or bar. Pleading to the merits,has.been held bythis court to be an pdmission
of the capacity of the plaintiff; to sue. TI-_ general issue admits, not only
the competency of the plaintiffs to sue, but to sue in the particular action which
they bring.
In the record there is abundant evidence to establish the right of the corporation
to hold the land in controversy. It is given to them by the royal charter of
1761, whith created'the town of Pawlet. The society is named among the
grantees, as " The Society for Propagating the Gospel in Foreign Parts ;" to
whom one share.is given. This is a plain recognition by the crown of the
existence of the corporation, and of its capacity to take. It would confer the
- power to take the land, even if it had not previously'existed.
The statdtes of limitation -ofVermont interpose no bar to the institution by the.
.Society frihe Propagati~n of the Gospel, &c. of an action for the recovery of
the land in controversy.
The plaintiffi are a foreign corporation, the members of which are averred to be
aliens, and British subjects; and the natural presumption is, that they are resi*dents abroad.
The-act of thelegislature of Vermont, which prohibits the recovery of mesne profits in certain cases, applies to the claims to such profits by the plaintiffs in this
suit; and the provisions of the treaty of peace of 1783, and those of the treaty
iyith Great Biltain in 1794, do not interfere with the provisions of that.act.
The lawhas prescribed the restrictions under which mesne profits shall be re.
eovered ;'and these restrictions are obligatory on the citizens of the state.
The plaintiffstakethe benefit-of the statutq remedy to recover their right to
te land; end they must take the remedy with all the statute restrictions.

THIS cause was cortified to this court from the circuit
court of -the United .States for the district of Vermont: the
judges of: that court being. opposed in opinion on c6rtaid
questiohs ot law.which arose at the trial.
The -action was .an.-jectnient, brought to recover "the

JANUARY TERM 1830.

481

[The Society foi the Propagation, &c. vs. Th6 Town of Pawlet, &c.]

first division lot laid out to the right of said society in.Pawlet, containing fifty acres."
The cause was tried at October term 1828 ; and after the
testimony on both sides was closed the jury were dischargtd,
upon the disagreement of the judges of the court, on the
several points herein'stated, arising upon the facts agreed
in the case, and stated by the counsel for the parties. The
facts agreed weie,
On the 26th day of August 1761, George III., then king
of Great Britain," by Benning Wentworth, Esq. governor.
of the then province of New Hampshire, made the grant or
charter to the town of Pivlet--aforesaid, particularly describing the boundaries thereof to the grantees, whose namei
are entered on said grant, their heirs and assigns for ever; to
be divided to and among them, into. sixty-eight shares.'
Among the graitees whose names are entered in, the said.
charter, is ' one whole share for the Sodiety for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts.' A copy of' the
charter was filed among the proceedings.
And afterwards, on the 16th of April 1795, Ozias Clarke
executed the counterpart of a lease to the selectmen of the
town of Pawlet, for the-time being, for and on behalf of said
.town, his heirs, executors, administrators and assignsof the
tract of land mentioned in the .paintiffs' declaration, described as follows, to wit: 'all that .tract of land, situate,
lying and-being in Pawlet aforesaid, known and distinguished by being the first division fifty acre lot, laid out to the
right known by the name of the Society, or Propagation
Right, to'have and to hold the demised premises, with the
privileges and appurtenances thereto belongirig, &c. from
the 16th of-April 1795, and onwards as long as trees grow
and water runs ;-hiF yielding and paying yearly, and at the
end of every year, the sum of seven pounds, lawful money,
-&c.
A copy of the lease was annexed, and made part of
this case. And thereupon Ozias Clarke entered into the immediate possession and occupancy of the said lot of land,
and has been ever since in the possession and occupancy_ of
the same; and has paid the rent aforesaid to the town of
Pawlet, yearly and every year since,: at the rate of seyen
VOL. V.-3 L

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

pounds, equal to twenty-three dollars and thirty-four cents,
for each year;. and the town of Pawlet have received the
said sum, as rent, yearly, from Ozias Clarke, and have applied
,the same for-the benefit of schools in the towr of Pawlet.
And Edward Clarke, the father of Ozias Clarke, went into the
possession of the lot in the spring of the year 1780; it not
appearing that he'had purchased any title thereto, and so
continued in 'the pcsse'ssion thereof till the defendant entered.
The case agreed contains dxtracts -from the minutesof the
-seiety, stating the proceedings thereof at their meetings in
London relative to the land in Vermont, granted by governor
'Wentworth to the society. The -first meeting was held on
the 16th of July 1762, and these minutes show the measures
adbpted by the society. relative to the lands, from that period
down to IS10.
The proceedings on the 16th of July 1762 and the 16th of
. 1ylardlh 1764, show an acceptance of the donation; and a
resolution that agents be appointed to take charge of ihe.
patents and warrants for the .land, and for such other purposes- as the interests of the society may require.
At a meeting of the society.held December 17, 1773, the
society agreed, that it be recommended to the society to
empower Mr Cossitt to see that justice be done to the society, in the allotment of glebes, &c. inNew Hampshire.
The society resolved to agree that a letter of attorney be
sent to the governor of New Hampshire, empowering Mr
Cossitt to act in behalf of the society with regard to these
lIands, and leaving blanks for other persons whom the governor may think proper to-insert.
On the 20th of May 1785, a report was made to the society relative to their lands, and the meeting resolved, that
the secretary do write to some one or more members.of the,
church of England in each of the states of America, in which
the society has any property, to-take'all proper care in
securing said property ; and further tc, inform such persons,
that it is the intention of the society to make over all such
property to the use of the episcopal church in that-country,
in whatever manner and form, after communication with the

JANUARY TERM. 1830.
[The Society for' the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town- of Pawlet, &c.]

several governments, shall appear to .be most effectual for
that purpose.
On the 16th of May 1794, an application was made to
the 'society through the bishop of New York, by the episcopal convention of Vermont, requesting the society to convey,
for the support of ifhe episcopal church of that diocese, the
land held by the society in Vermont, under grants- from
New Hampshire. The committee of the society made a
report as follows:
'The committee. agreed in opinion, that the bishop of New
York be assured of the society's readiness to concur in any
measures which can forward the establishment of an episcopal church. But having considered that former applications
have been made from the state of Vermont, differing in their
intentions from the present, which were rejected by the society in May 1790; and at the same time Mr Parker of
Boston,'when he obtained a deed from the society for the
conveyance of their lands in New Hampshire, had signified
that he should not trouble them respecting Vermont, till he
should know the operation of that deed; and having never
since heard from Mr Parker on that subject, are of the
opinion, that there is not sufficient grouid for the society to
execute the present deed.
At a meeting of the society on the 16th of November
1810, the secretary of the society was directed to obtain the
fullest and most particular inforiiiation respecting the nature
and value of the rights of the society to the lands in Vermont,
with the best means of recovering and rendering the same
available.
In consequence of certain votes of the society, expressive
of their intention to appropriate the avails of their lands
in the state of Vermont foi the use of the protestant episcopal church in that state, the convention of the church
in that state made application to the society for the
power of attorney: and the said society executed to the
Right Rev. Alexander V. Griswold' bishop of the eastern
diocese, and the other agents therein named, the power of
attorney, dated December 5, 1816; a c6py'of which was
annexed to the case.

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for. tie Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet,&c,

The act of the legislaturd of Vermont, passed October
27, 1785, entitled an act for settling disputes respecting
landed property ; an act entitled an act for the purpose of
regulatinig suits respecting landed property, and directing
the mode of proceeding therein, passed Ndvember 5, 1800;
also, the several acts to keep !he acts last aforesaid in
force for latdr'peiiods than those contained in said act;
an act passedNoyernber 15, 1820, entitled an act for the
purpose of regulating suits respecting' landed property,
and directing the .mode of proceeding therein; and all
the' statutes ever -passed in Veiniont, for thie limitation of
actions,and all the additions thereto, as bund in the
scverdl statute booka' including tile act passed November
16, 1S19, entitled aui act repealing .parts of certain acts
therein mentioned; an act passed October 26, 1787, authorising the. selectmen of the several towns tb improve the
glebe and society's lands, and an act in addition thereto,
passed October 26, 1789 -,,nact passed October 30, 1794,
cntitled an act directing the appropriation of the lands in
the state, heretofor6 granted by the British -overnmert to
the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign
Parts ; and all other statutes of said state, that either party
considers applicable to this case : are to be considered as a
part of this case.
Upon the foregoing case, the opinions of the judges of the
circuit court were opposed upon the following points:
1. Whether the. plaintiffs have shown that they have any
right'to hold lands .
"2.Whether the plaintiffs are barred by the three
years'
limitation in the act of the 27th of October 1785, or any
other of the statutes of limitatiori
3. Whether, under the laws of Vermont, the plaintifl are
.entitled to recover mesne profits; and if so, for what length
of time !
The case was argued by Mr Webster, for the: plaintiffsand by Mr Doddridge, for the defendants. Mr Doddridge
also presented the written argument of Mr J. C. Wright, for
the defendants; as did Mr Webster,- an argument for the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c..vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

plaintiffs, prepared by the counsel in the circuit court .of
Vermont.
For the plaintiffs it .was argued : that it was not a point
in issue, or on vhich the court divided in opinion, whether
the plaintiffs were a.corporation capable of suing in this
form; that being admitted by the plea of the general issue.
,Cited 10 Mod. 207. r'Bos. & Pul. 10. 10 Co. Rep. 122,
126. * 1 Saund. Rep. 340, 342. Atlantic Insurance Company vs. Conard, 1 Peters's Rep, 395, 408, 560.
1. The plaintiffs contend, that 'if they are a.corporation
capable of suing, they must be capable of taking and holding land.
2. That the right to take and hold lands is incident
to a
corporation. 'Com. Dig. 258, F. 18, 260,'F. 18, 19. Co. Lit.
2 a. 2. b. Sid. 162. Co. Rep. 30-36. Sir William
Jones's Rep. 168.
3. That the cbrporation existed at and prior to the date
of the charter of-Pawlet, 1761.
It being admitted by the pleadings, that the plaintiffs. are
a corporation, there is no presumption, against its prior existence, at any period within the time whlereof the memory of
man runneth, &c. Its prior existence is matter of general
history, of which the court will take notice as matter of law.
The extracts from the records prove the existence of the"
corpora.tion in 1762, by acts which refer back to the New
Hampshire charters, as grants made to the corporation then
existing. The preamble of th, act of 1794, under which
the defendants claim,- recognizes all grants made to the
society'as made to an existing corporation.
"Whereas, the society for the propagation of the gospel
'in foreign parts, is a corporation, created by, and existing
within a foreign jurisdiction, to which they alone are .amenable; by reason whereof, at the time of the late revolution
of this and of the United States from the jurisdiction of Great
Britain, all lands in this state granted to the society for the
propagation of the gospel in foreign parts, became vestedin
this state," &c. The lease of the tenant .admitsthdt the
land in question was granted by said charter to thd society.

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

The New Hampshire charter of the town, of 1761, recognizes the plaintiffs as then being .an existing corporation.
That charter, being a royal grant, by granting the lands to
the plaintiffs, made them a corporation capable of taking
and holding the lands thus granted, if they were not so
before. Cited Dyer, 100. pl. 70. The Alderman of Chesterfield's case, Cr. Eliz. 35. 10 Mod. Rep. 207, 208. By
the act of 1794, all grants of-land to the society are recognized as grants originally valid, and so continuing until the
revolution ; by reason of which, the act declares the lands
became vested in this state.
The state claims the right of the society as forfeited to
the state, and grants the right to the town; and the tenant,
in 1795, acknowledges the right of the town, by his lease,
&c. and both are in under the act.
The plaintiffs contend that the defendants-have admitted
the right of the plaintiffs. See Atlantic Insurance Company vs. Conard, 1 Peters's Rep. 450. And are estopped
from denying the original right of the plaintiffs at any time
prior to the revolution. Cited 10 Johns. 353, 358, 292,
223. 12 Johns. 182. 3 Caines, 188. 2 Sch. & Lef. 73, 109.
The plaintiffs are not barred by the act of .limitation of
27th October 1785.
1. The plaintiffs contend that the statute gives no title;
that it bars only the action, and not the right of entry; and
that the bar has been avoided by entry of the town, and the
leases between the defendants.
Clarke, the father of the defendant, entered before the 1st
of October 1780, ithout colour of title, and (without considering the exception to the clause) the adtion was barred
i. 1788. In 1795, Clarke perniitted the town to enter,
(which the execution of the lease supposes) accepted a lease
from the town, (this he acknowledges in the counterpart
executed by him, and by the payment of rent) and thereby
acknowledged the right of the town.
The statute bars only the remedy therein named. BaL
on Lim. 59- 2 Salk. 422. "Bro. Pail. Ca. 67. Lord Raym.
Rep. 741.
2. The defendants are estopped by their leases from

JANUARY TERM 1830.
'[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

setting up this defence under this statute. The tenant, by
accepting a lease, acknowledges the title of. the landlord,
and disclaims his own; and the town enter and lease expressly in virtue of their title under the act of 1794: both
parties recognize that as the only existing title.
The case must now rest on the title of the landlord ; and
he cannot set up this title, as it would show title out of the
landlord and in the tenant, which would be repugnant to the
effect of the lease. And the tenant can set up no title
against his landlord, on the ground that he can have no
such title. Blight's Lessee vs. Rochester, 7 Wheat. 547.
6 Jdhns. Rep. 34. 1 Caines's Rep. 444. 2 Caines's Rep.
215. 3 Caines's Rep. 188. 2 Camp. Rep. 12, and notes.
The plaintiffs' rights are saved by the ninth section of the
act: "provided always, and it is hereby further enacted
by the authority aforesaid, that this act shall not extend to
any person or persons settled on lands granted or sequestered for public, pious, or charitable uses."
1. The plaintiffs contend that the words .' this act," ex vi
termini, extend to the whole act. 2. That the proviso can
only be limited.by construction; and that statutes of limitations are construed strictly to save the rights of the legal
owner, especially an act limiting actions to two years and
eight months, without any saving clause in favour of persons
beyond seas. The statute 12th of Ien. VIII. c. 2, enacted
that formedons in remainder' and reverter should be brought
within fifty years. It was holden not to extend to formedons in descender. Co. Lit. 115. Hargrave's notes, 148.
3. The restrictive construction would be unreasonable. The
effect would be to give the settler no improvements, if sued
for public lands on the 30th of June; but would give, him
the land, together with the improvements, if sued the next
day. 4. No inference can be drawn from the location of this
section; for if it were conceded that the proviso of the fourth
section extended only to the parts of the act relating to improvements, it would furnish no reason why a subsequent
section of provisos should not extend to.the whole act.
The fourth section is placed in the middle of those respecting improvements, and therefore must apply to what fol-

488

SUPREME COURT..

[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

"lows,as well as what precedes it. Besides, it will be found
that this section applies to the clause of limitation also.
* The counsel then went into a particular exafnination of
the statutes of Vermont on the subject of limitations: and
contended, that the construction of the whole act of the 27th
of October 1785 is; that when a person entered into possession of lands of another, to which he. had purchased a
title, supposing at the time of -the purchase such title to be
good in fee, 'he shall be entitled to recover of the owner the
value of. the improvements and one half of what said lands
are risen in Value; and shall be quieted in possession of the
lands, if hb remains till after the 1st of July 1788; without
suit against him.
That if he entered without a supposed title, he shall be
entitled to recover the value of his improvements; but he
shall have no allowance for the rise of-the land. But if,
by the proviso in the fourth section, he entered after the
1st day of October 1780, he shall'not be entitled to recover
for his improvements ; nor be protected by the clause of limitation.' And, if he entered after the 1st day of July, without
legal title, he could not recover improvements; nor-be protected by the clause of limiiation.
And if he got possession at any time by actual ouster of
the legal owner, according to the fourth section, or had "settled on lahds granted or sequestered for public, pious, or
charitable uses ;" or had 'got the possession of lands by virtue
of any contract with the legal owner, according to the ninth
section; he could.not recover for improvements, nor be protected by the clause of limitations..
He denied that the construction contended for by the defendant was correct.
1. From the history of the act. 2. That it is contrary to
the intention of the legislature, as shown by a particular examination of the laws relative to limitations. -3 'From the
.acts of the'legislature ; exempting the p-tb'hc rights from the
giand list of the state, from which all annual taies are made
up for the support of government, schools, high ways, the
poor, &c.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

489

EThe Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

2. The defendants are not protected" by the general statute of limitations passed the 10th of March 1787. This
statute has no operation upon any'case where the cause of'
action has accrued before the passing thereof. The words
of the statute are: "no act of ejectment, &c. shall hereafter be sued, &c. for the recovery of any lands, &c. where
the cause of action shall accrue after the passing of this
act ; but within fifteen years next after the cause of action
shAll accrue to the plaintiff or demandant, &c. Has. Ed.
of the Stat. 100, 101.'
But what is very decisive of this question is, that both the
general statutes of limitations above referred to, *contain
a proviso in favour of infants, &c. and persons beyond seas.
The statutes, therefore, have never .commenced running
against the plaintiffs in this case, they having always been
beyond seas.
The plaintiffs -then contend that they are entitled to
recover the seisin and possession of the lands, because :
1. The cause of action had accrued before either of the
statutes of limitation had passed, and is therefore not
with the enacting clauses. 2. If it was, still the right of
the plaintiffs is saved'under the proviso to protect the lands
granted for public, pious, or charitable uses. 3. Because
the plaintiffs always have been, and still are, beyond seas.
The plaintiffs are efititled to recover for mesne profits.
At common law, an action df trespass, after recovery in
ejectment, was the proper action to recover the mesne profits, and such other damages as the plaintiffs had sustained.
Run. on Eject. 156, 157.' Bul. N. P. 87. 8 Wil. Rep. 121
An action for the mesne profits was coflsequential to the*
.recovery in ejectment. Aslin vs. Parker, 2 Br. Rep. 668.
The common law of England was adopted by statute so far
as is not repugnant to the constitution, or to any act of the
legislature. See Has. Ed. 28. .The form of the English
action was adopted by statute; and was the only form used
till the statute of 1797. Has. Ed. p. 196. And upon recocovery, the action of trespass was the only action used to
recover mesne profits and any other damages: for in the
action of trespass, the plaintiff was not confined to the mesne
VOL. IV.-3 M

490

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the:Propagation, &c. v8.The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

profits only; he w~s entitled to recover for ahy damages
which the defendant had done to the premises ;'such as cutting timber, or injuring or .pulling down buildings, or Ye-"
moving fixtures, &c. Costs in ejectment'were recovered as
damages in the action of trespass. 2 Bur. Rep. 665.
The court say that damages may be recovered to four
times the amount of the mesne profits. 3 Wils. Rep. 121.
It remains to inquire, for what length of time we are entitled to recover.
1. We contend, that as the action itself is within provisos
protecting the plaintiffs from the operation of the statutes
of limitation, it extends to all the incidents of,the action in
which. the land itself is *recovered, and consequently will go
back to the first entry of the defendant.
2. 'If not, the plaintiffs are entitled for fifteen years before
the commencement of the suit. The action of ejectment
generally is limited to fifteen years; and that time in all
cases would regulate the other incidents of the action.
The reason why, that at common law there could be no
recovery beyond six years, is because the damages must be
recovered in an action-of trespass, and that action was limited to six years.
The statute of 1797 merely changed the remedy to the form
now used. Comp.L. 84. Toll.Ed. 90,91. Bythis statute,
the plaintiff is entitled to recover as well his damages, as
the seisin and possession of the premises. Under this statute, the plaintiff is entitled to recover for the same injuries,
and to the same amount, as before the alteration he was
entitled to recover in the action of trespass. The first restriction upon such recovery was introduced by a statute
passed November 5th 1800; Toll. Ed. 211. Comp. L.
176; by the third section of which it is enacted, "that in
all actions of ejectment which now are, br hereafter may be
brought, the plaintiff, &c. shall recover nothing for the
mesne profits, except upon such part of said improvements
as were made by the plaintiff or plaintiffs, or such person or
persars, under whom he, she or.they hold." By the fifth
section it is provided, "that this act shall not extend to any
person or persons in possession of any lands granted for

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

public or pious uses ;" and by the eighth section, "this act
shall not extend to any person or per.ons, who shall enter
upon and take possession of lands after the passipg of this
act."
It follows, therefore, that as the defendants are upon lands
appropriated to public, pious, and charitable uses, that they
are not entitled to the benefit of this 'provision of the act.
It'follows, also, that, as this provision of the act can operate
only upon cases that had taken place before the passing of
the act, it is wholly retrospective and void. See 2 Gal.
Rep. 139. 7 Johns. Rep. 477.
Mr Doddridge, for the defendants, argued:
1. The plaintiffs have shown no capacity to recover these
lands, or to hold them. They have offered no evidence of a
charter of incorporation, constituting them a body politic;
or any act of incorporation authorising them to institute this
suit. This is essential to the commencement of the suit;
and the plaintiffs, for want of such proof of their existence
as a corporation, have failed in limie.
The rule of law is, that every person, natural or artificial,
who would avail himself of a deed or take any benefit by it,
must produce the deed itself. 10 Coke, 92, a. b. And this
rule prevails, without exception, in. relation to charters or,
other acts erecting bodies politic. Without such a charter
they can have no legal existenc'e. Page's case, 1 Coke, 52.
Rex vs. Passmore, 3 Term Rep. 247. 8 Coke, 8. Coke
Lit. 225. 8 Johns. Rep. 295. Lord Raym. 1535. * Xyd on.
Corp. 29,2. Bul. Nisi Prius, 107.
Before any corporate act can be given in evidence, its
charter must be produced. United States vs. Johns, 4 Dal].
412.
It has been supposed that the existence of the, society
having become matter of history, it is unnecessary to show
the court its corporate character and capacity by producing
the act of incorporation.
The distinQtion between such facts as may or may not be
-proved by history, is well settled. Those which are of

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town Iof Pawlet, &c.1

general concern, which affect nations, as the revolutions of
governments and the sue'cession of princes, miay be proved
by history. But the evidence of a private right, as a custom;
or of a corporation, which is of much less notoriety than a
custom, cannot be so proved. I Salk. 281.
Is it assumed by the plaintiff that the existence of this
society-as a corporation is acknowledged by the royal grant
of the town of Pawlet, made by governor Wentworth, in 1761.
Is it true that a royal grant of land to an indefinite number of individuals,.by a general description, is -of1tself to be
received against strangers as evidence of the corporate ca-pacity of the individuals ? 'This court, in -Pawlet vs. Clarke
et al. 9 Cranch, 172, determined such a grant to be void.
The. doctrine urged by the plaintiff.is conceived to be
without authority, and contrary to the -whole theory of
'eking's grafits." The king's grants shall not enure to any.
other intent*than that which is precisely expressed id the
giant. 2 BI. Com. 347.
Is it. true that the right to hold lands islegally incident to
.acorpoxatibn
' This is denied. A corporation can only
act
up- to the -end or design, whatever that may be, for which it..
was created by the founder. 1 BI. Com.' 480. ° Corporations cannot be seised of lands for the use of another. Bacon
on Uses, 347, 1 BI. CQm. 477. *The.cases cited -for the
plaintiffs, of the effect of a grant of lands by-the king to a
cQrporation, do not sustain .the principle.
It is alleged- that. the general assembly of 'Vermont, by
several legislative acts, have recognized all grants made to
the society, as made to an existing corporation.
None of the acts of the legislature recognize the right of,
any foreign compagy to take or hold land. The interference
of. the. assenbly was for purpa-is entirely distinct, if not
adverse, to -such recognition.
The-acts of Vermont are founded on thi-e supposition that
these lands are vacant, and in default of ownership needed
the care of the legislature. Even the lasf act, Which grants
the lands to the towns in which they lie, for tie use of schools,
-although it .mentions them as having been granted to "the
-.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

493

[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

-Society for Propagating the Gospel in Foreign Parts,"' does
not redite, affirm, or admit the fact of the incorporation of
such society; muchf less its capacity to hold lands.in perpetual succession.
But if it had done so, it would have left the question, for
every practical pudrpose, where it found it. The state has no
power over any foreign societyjor body whatsoever.
It is denied that an express declaration by the legislature,
that "the'plaintiffs are a corporation.and competent to sue,
would have any operation. -Ithas been settled in Vermdnt,"
on solid grounds, that it is not competent for the legislature
to supply evidence 'to. a party in a particular case. 1
Chip. Rep. 237. What is legal or pertinent eiidence, is
a question exclusively for the court to determine.
The legislature has power to create a corporation; but it
has no power. to create one within the realm of Great
Britain.
Neither the people'of Vermont, nor the defendants, have
ever known any thing of the society but its name. Nearly
seventy years ago the charter of this town of Pawlet, containing the lands'sued, for, was issued in the-name of the king..
The town has been divided among the grantees. The
forest has been felled, and the soil made fruitful by its owners. For fifty-years, ihe defendant and his ancestors have
peaceably possessed 'this land ; now claimed by a supposed
body of men of whom nothing is known. Men who have
never attempted to locate the lands, who never improved it,
possessed it, or ever claimed to possess it.
Recently, certain persons in this county, not pretending
to be of the society, have required the occupant of the soil,
who has so long-cultivated and improved the lands, to yield
them to a foreign corporation ; -of whose capacity or right
they know nothing, and of which they pertinaciously refuse
to exhibit any evidence. May not the validity of a claim so
circumstanced be well doubted I Does not the legal suspicion attach to the withholding of the charter; that if it wa's
exhibited, it would develope circumstances fatal to the claim
of the society.
Again, it is insisted, that the defendants cannot requiie

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

the production of this charter, because the town of Pawlet
has taken possession of this property as having been the
property of the society, and so coniinued until the revolution; described it as known by the name of "the society
right ;" and now claim it as forfeited by the revolution. .
Where a party resorts to the admissions of his adversary,
the whole admission must be taken .together. Adopt this
rule, and the title of the defendants is indisputable. If it is
admitted that the land once belonged to a body corporate ;
the same statement asserts that it no longer belongs to it,
but has been forfeited.
As to a legislative recognition, it cannot avail, if to enact
facts for a particular case is contrary to law, and this is
certainly -so.
If it be said, that if the lands were not the property of the
society, there would be nothing for -the statute of Vermont
to operate on; the answer is; that the word of the statute,
which refer to "the society land" are descriptive, and no
more.
It is not well supposed, that the defendants hold or claim
to hold under a grant from Vermont. They are in peaceable possession of the land, and have held it for nearly half a
century, inder a legal'and a fair title, as they believed: and
on this they have a right to rest until a better right shall be
made to appear by legal, competent and appropriate testimony.
It is an indispensable rule in ejectment, that the plaintiff
must entitle himself to recover by the force of his own legal
title; and he can derive no support from the weakness of his
adversaries.
Evidence of title consists, 1. In showing possession and
a~ts of ownership, from which the legal title may be presumed.
2. In proving a particular title. 2 Stark. on Ev. 514.
He who claims as heir, must prove the seisin of his ancestor ; and afterwards that he is heir. A guardian in socage,
who has an interest in the land, must in ejectment prove that
-hisward is heir; that he is guardian ; that his ward is then
under the age of fourteen. 2 Stark. on Ev. 521. These

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[The Society forthe Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

authorities show the error of the assumption that the defendants, having pleaded the general issue, admitted the right
.of the plaintiffs to sue as a corporation.
The general issue," says sir William Blackstone, " is
what traverses and denies at once the whole declaration." 3
Com. 306. How the denial of the whole can be construed
an admission of a part, or any part of the right of the party,
is not perceived.
It is agreed that. temporary disabilities, which delay the
suit only, cannot be relied upon under the general issue. It
is only an admission that the party named may sue, not that
he has a right to recover what he sues for : either in the way
he sues, or in any other. His title to recover in all such
cases depends on his proof. The non-joinder of all the parties in interest in a suit is fatal; and yet the principle
which is claimed for the plaintiff negatives this well established and proper rule. It is not an answer on the trial to
the objection of want of parties, when the evidence of the
plaintiff is given, showing that he is tot the only party who
can claim to recover; that the general issue has been pleaded, and that all such objections have been waived. The
spirit of the rule which is claimed in this case should go
further to protect a plaintiff showing some right, although
not the whole right, than to maintain that one can sue who
has shown no right at all.
The case of Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Comnany,
1 Peters, 450, wien examined, dsserts nothi g contrary to
the principles which-are now stated. In that case, it is said
by the distinguished and lamented judge who tried the case
at the circuit court of Pennsylvania, judge Washington, that
the object of the suit " was to try the merits of the case ;"
and a technical objection taken to defeat the declared purpose of the parties, came in under no favcur.
If one sues as guardian, executor, or in any fiduciary cha-"
racter, the general issue does not confess his character, and
he must prove it. So if an assignee sue, he must, on 'the
general issue, prove the assignment. In this case the plea
does not questioi the right of the-plaintiff to sue: but as the
plea denies every material allegatioi in 'the declaration, it

496

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &Q]

cannot admit they have title to the thing denianded; or capacity to acquire it ;. or any matter or thing touching the
title.
It is urged that the defendants are estopped by the lease
from disputing the capacity of the plaintiffs to take the land.
A tennnt, it is well said, is estopped to deny the title of his
landlord ; but the defendants are not tenants to the society.
They have shown no-title but possession, nor are they. bound
to exhibit any other- until some title is exhibited- by the
plaintiffs.
There is no privity of contract, action or interest, or relation between the plaintiffs and the defendant ; and the doctrine of estoppels applies* to such cnses. What privity or
*relationship exists between the dei mdants and the pretended
corporation. The very fac of capacity..; which it is the
object of the reasoning of the plaintiffs' counsel toinfer or
assume; should be proved by proper evidence, before any
foundation is laid. for inferences. It is required first to
assume the corporate capacity of the plaintiff; then the rely'tionship of -the defendants to. it, to estop the defendants' denial.. Such.assumptions-are not-warranted by the law, or by
the facts of the case.
If the facts were as the plaintiffs assume, they do not forth
a legal estoppel, and prevent the defendant from a-denial of
the capacity 9f the plaintiffs to sue for these lands or to hold
them.
.E 'ery-estoppel ought to be reciprocal; that is, to bind
both parties. 3 Coke, 352..
The name given, to the land in the lease "known" by the
name of the society or propagation right," is not the name
in'which the plaintiffs declare- it'may be as well appropriated to one society as to another.
Upon the statutes of limitations, it is-contended ; that the
plaifitiffs'are barred of their right of action, should the court
.cons;der that they have estdblished a capacity to maintain
their suit.
Under the provisions of the act of 1785, the defendant is
'fully protected. The ,record shows that the father of the
defendant entered on the land in the spring .of 1780, and
-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Thb Society for the Propagation, &c. tis. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

continued in possession until April 1795, when his son entered, and has ever -since continued'in the possession of the
land. It is fairly to be inferred,, that Ozia s'Clarke came into
posiession under his father. And, thus, a possession of upwards of forty years is made-out; a length of possession undisturbed, which entitles the party to the most.favourable.considerati on. On, the 10th of .March 1787'the legislature
pissed the quieting act; which, it is admitted, does not embrace this case: but it is referred to in order to. show the
existence of.a general disposition in the legislature to impose limitations'on all titles derived from the mother country.
It was doubtless the intention of the legislature, that the
alarm as to titles growing out of. the revolutionary struggle should be allayed, and that the holders and occupants.
of lands, so situated, should be speedily quieted in their titles;
and their titles made complete, under the speciallegislation,
growing out of the exigencies of the times. The rights of
these parties, we therefore contend, vested undei, these laws,
and no subsequent laws can divest them. The laws thus
made constituted a contract -on the part of the state; so far,
at least, as'that the title vested under the laws should not
be divested by a repeal or change of the law of limitations.
The plaintiffs contend, that the last proviso, save one, in
the quieting act, exempts the society from the limitations of
the last section.
On the part of the defendants, it is urged that this proviso applies only to the previous part of the law; and by.its
position, as well as its purpose, is so restricted' Should it
have the 'operation claimed for it by.the plaintiffs, it will entirely defeat the purposes of the statute.
The act of 1795 consists of two distinct and independent
1iarts, the subjects of which bear to each other no affinity or
connexion ; no more than if the legislation upon them was
in two distinct laws. A particular examination of the sections.of the law fully supports this position.
Sound principles of construction, and the requirenments of
justice determine, in order to attain the -intention of the legislature, that the tv;o parts of the statute be treated as seV6L.'IV.-3 N

-

498

SUPREME COURT.
[Tbe Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Tow, of Pawlet, &e.]

parate and distinct; as much-so as if contained in two statutes.
Separate statutes, or several statutes upon the same subject, are to be considered as one subject, for the purpose of

interpretation. 1 Bur. 447. So if two distirct matters be
embraced in one statute, they shall be considered as two
acts. 7 Bac. Ab. 551. Hob. 226. Perkins, 13, 14.
The act of limitations of 1785, it is contended, is the only.
one applicable to the case; and it has no exception in favour
of persons "beyond sea." Those words in the law of 1787
have nothing to do with this controversy.
But if they had, this is in the nature of an exception to
the statute, and it is to be proved by him who would take
advantage of it. That these corporations were beyond. sea
is not proved; and it is not to be presumed.
This court has determined, that to give the court jurisdiction, you may look 'back of the corporation, and must
find, in .case the jurisdiction is claimed between citizens of
different states, that none of the corporators are citizens of
the same state with that of the qdverse party.
It is contended, that the statdte of limitations does not
apply, because the entry of the defendants, and those under
.whom ihey claim, was upon a supposed title. This is denied.
The defendant, Clarke, is in possession; and this is all that cai
be required of him until the plaintiffs have shown their tit[e.
The terms of the act clearly embrace the case of the defendants; and the plaintiffs have made out no case of exception. It is understood that the decisions of the courts of
Vermont on this statute have always been according to the
literal meaning of the law.
It is denied that the act of 1801, by excepting lands of
the description of those claimed by the plaintiffs, reserves the
remedy for the recovery of these lands. The argument, that
no subsequent statute could affect rights acquired under a
precedent law, has already been submitted ; and it is also
said with confidence, that the court will not admit that a
repeal of the prior law was intended by implication. The
act of 1805 is considered as in full force in Vermont, and
many titles depend upon it.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

Are the plaintiffs entitled to recover mesne profits, and
for what time.
Thereis.a strong analogy between the limitation of actions for the recovery of the land, and for the recovery of
mesne profits. At common law there could be a recovery
for a longer period than six years.
In England, where the right io recover for mense 'profits
was first established, the defendants had probably been, in
all the cases, occupantg of improved land. In this'case, the
claim of the plaintiffs is for the mesne profits of land which
when first possessed was in a-state of nature, and which has
been made productive by the industrious improver. Every
principle of justice would require that a claimant under a
long dormant title, should not have a compensation for an
occupancy which had con'erred upon. the property such additiofial value.
In accordance with these principles; the legislature of
Vermont have acted; and while on the one hand they have
secured to the occupant the value of his. improvements, on
the other they have denied to the successful claimant any
supposed profits of lands, unimproved when the occupation
of the defendant commenced. Act of the legislature of Vermont, the 15th of November 1820.
This action was commenced in 1824, and is clearly within
the provisions of this act; and there is nothing in the distinction as to the title under which the defendants held.
It would, seem to have been the manifest intention'of the
legislature of Vermont, while it denied the occupants without supposed title the value of their improvements, to. relieve them from liability.for mesne profits ; to which, being
benefited by the improvements which the party recovering
thd land takes without compensation, he could have no just
claim.
Mr Webster in reply.
As to the capacity of the plaintiffs to take and hold the
lands: The capacity in which they act is admitted in the
pleadings. They sue as a corporation, and they are by the
plea of the general issue admitted to be such, and so to be

500

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the Propagation,-Ac. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

taken. The capacity of, the corpoiation to hold lands is
sufficiently proved by producing a grant of lands to it by the
king himself. The differebce between this case and that
of the Town of-Pawlet vs. Clarke, in 9 Cranch, is that the
grant was there t6 the church of England, and not to a cot"poration.
The defendants claim under the act of 1794, which act"
admits the existence of the corporation, and of their capacity to take the lands.
The lease to the defendant from the town of Pawlet shows
that he claims under the crown. The town claims under
tie state, and the state claims under the society, -and the
society hold under the crown. The state assert their right
as successors to the society, on the occurrence of the revolution. Thus all parties claim under the crown, and all are
bound by their acts.
As fo the statute of. limitations, he said that the act
only barred the action, not the entry; and in 1794 the town
of Pawlet actually entered in this very right. -They entered
as having acquired the right of the society, and holding
inderit.
The defendant, Clarke, admitted this right; he. now holds
the lands under it; and he cannot dispute the right; although
he may deny that the right belongs to the plaintiffs, and may
contend that it has passed to the town.
The defendant cannot set up any title but that under
which he entered;. and having entered under the town, that
title and that alone can he set up on that title only can he
stand.
-

Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court; Mr
Justice BArfDwiN dissenting on the first point.
This cause is certified to this court, from the circuit
court for the distribt of Vermont; upon certain points upon
which the judges of that court were opposed in opinion..,
The original action Was an ejectment, in the nature of a
real- action, according to the local practice, in which no fictitious persons intervene; *and it was brought in May 1824,
to recover a certain lot of land, being tho first division lot

JANUARY TERM 1830.

501

[The Society for the Propaghtion, &6. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.1

laid out to the right of a society in the town of Pawlet.
The plaintiffs ard described in the writ as "1the society for
the propagation of the gospel in foreign parts, a corporation
duly established in England, within the dominions of the
king of the united kingdom of Great Britainand Ireland, the
members of which society are aliens and subjects of the said
king." The defendants pleaded the general issue, not guilty,
which was joined; and the cause was submitted to a jury for
trial. By agreement of the parties at the trial, the jury were
discharged from giving any verdict; upon the. disagreement
of the judges upon the points growing out of the facts stated
in the record. Those points have been argued before us;
and. it remains for me to pronounce the decision of the court.
The first point is, whether the plaintiffs have shown that
they have any right to hold lands:
In considering this point, it .is
material to observe'that no
plea in abatement has been filed, denying the capacity- of
the plaintiffs to sue; and no special plea in abatement, or
bar, that there is no such corporation as stated inthe writ(a).
The general issue is pleaded, which admits the competency
of. the plaintiffs, to sue in the corporate capacity in Which
they-have sued. If the defendants meant to have insisted
upon the want of, a corporate capacity in the. plaintiffs to
.sue, it should have been insisted upon by a special plea in
abatement or bar. Pleading to the merits has been held by
this court to'be an admission of the capacity of the plaihltiffs to sue. Conarl vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company,
I Peters's Rep. 386, 450(b).
But the point here raised is not so much whether the plaintiffs are entitled to sue generally as a corporation, as whether they have shown a riglht to hold lands. The general
issue admits not only the competency of the plaintiffs to sue(a) Comyn's Dig. Abatement; E. 16. Mayor, &c. of Stafford vs. Bolton, I
Bos. & Pull. 40. 1 Saunders's Rep. 340. Williams's.Notes. 6 Taunt. Rep.
467. 7 Taunt. 546.
(b) See the case of Sutton Hospital, 10 Co. 30, b. Comyn's Dig. Fran."
ebise, F. 6, 10, U1, 15. Capacity, A. 2. See also Proprietors of Kenebeck
Purchase vs. Call, 1 Mass. Rep. 482, 484. Mayor, &c. of Stafford vs. Bolton, 1
Boo.&-NPol.
40: i-Siide's's Rep.440, note by Willtan.

502

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

but to sue in the particular action which they bring. But
in the present case, we think, there is abundant evidence in
the record to establish the- right of the corporation to hold
the lands in controversy. In the first place, it is given to
them by the royal charter of 1761, which created the town
of Pawlet. Among the grantees therein named, is "the
.society forthe propagation of the gospel in foreign parts,"
to whom one share in the township is given. This is a plain
recognition, by the crown, of the existence of the corporation,
and of its capacity to take. It would confer the power to
take the lands, even if it had not previously existed. And
the other proceedings stated on the record, establish the
fact that the s6ciety had received various other donations
from the crown of the same nature; and had accepted them.
Besides, the act of 1794, under which the town of Pawlet
claims the lands, distinctly admits the existence of the corporation, and its capacity to take the very land in controversy.
" Whereas," says the act, " the society for the propagation of the gospel in foreign parts is a corporation created by
and existing within a foreign jurisdiction, to which they
alone are amenable; by reason whereof, at the time of
the late revolution of this .and of the United States from
the jurisdiction of Great Bsitain, all lands in this state, granted to the society for the propagation of the gospel in
foreign parts, became vested in this state, &c."
And the act then proceeds to grant the right of the state,
so vested in them, to the, various towns in which they are
situated- So ihat the title pet ip by the state is.
under the
society, as a corporation originally capable to take the
lands, and actually-taking them; and their title being divested, and vesting in the state by the revolution. In the latter
particular the legislature' were mistaken in point of law.
This court had occasion to decide that question, in The
Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts
vs. The Town of New Haven, 8 Wheat. 464; where it was
held that the revolution did not divest the title of the society,
although it was a foreign corporation. That case came before us upon a.special verdict, which found the original
charter of the society granted by William the Third, and

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

its power to hold lands, 6&c. We do not, however, rely on
that finding, as it is not incorporated into the present case.
But we think the other circumstances sufficient, prima facie,
to establish the right of the society as a corporation to hold
lands; and particularly the lands in question. In Conard vs.
The Atlantic Instrance Company, 1 Peters's Rep. 386, 450,
the court held' evidence, far less direct and satisfactory,
prima facie evidence of the corporate character of the plaintiffs. A certificate ought accordingly to be sent to the circuit court in answer to the first question ; that the plaintiffs
have shown that they have a right to hold the lands in controversy.
The second point is, whether the plaintiffs are barred by,
the three years' limitation in the act of the 27th of October
1783, or any other statute of limitations of Vermont.
The act of 1785 recites in the preamble, that many persons have purchased supposed titles to lands within the state etnd have taken possession and made large improvements, &c.
It then proceeds to provide in the first eight sections, "for
the blIlowance of improvements, &e. to the tenants, in-cased
of eviction under superior titles. There is a proviso which
prevents these sections from extending to any thing future.
The ninth section is as follows: "provided always, and it is
hereby further enacted by the authority aforesaid, that this
act shall not extend to any person or-persons settled on lands
*granted or sequestered for public, pious, or charitable uses ;
nor to any .person who has got possession of lauids by virtue
of any contract made between him and the legal owner or
owners thereof." The tenth section provides, that nothing
in the act shall be construed to deprive any.person of his
remedy at law against his voucher. The eleventh and last
section is as follows: " that, no writ of right or other real
action, no action of ejectment or other possessory action of
any name or nature soever, shali be sued, prosecuted or
maintained for the recovery of any lands, tenements or hereditaments, where the cause of action has accrued before the
passing of this act; unless such action be commenced within
three years next after the 1st of July in the pfesent year of
our lord, 1788."

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the Propagation, &c. vs. The Town of Pawlef, &c.],

Now, in order to avail themselves of the statute bar under
this last section, it is necessary for the defendant6 to show
that the cause of action of- the plaintiffs accrued before the
passing of that act. To establish that, -it. is necessary'to
show that there had been an actual ouster of the plaintiffs,
by some person entering into possession adversely to the
,plaintiffs. No such ouster is.shown upon the facts. It is,
. indeed, stated, "that Edward Clarke, the father of the said
Ozias Clarke,-went into possession of the said lot in'the
spring of the year 1780, it not appearing that he had pur.chased any title thereto; and so continued in possession thereof until the said defendant entered as aforesaid;" that is un:"
der the lease of the -town. Edward Clarke is therefore. to be
.treated as a mere intruder, withcut title ; and no ouster carf
Pe presumed in favour of-such a naked possession. And it is
not unworthyof no tice, that the fourth section of the act-of
1785 provided "thatno person, who hath ousted the -rightful owner, or got .possession of any improved estate by ouster, otherwise than by legal process, shall take any advantage
or benefit by this act." So that a plain intention appears'
"on the part-of the legislature not to give its protection tomere intruders, who designedly ousted the rightful owners.,
It is also to'be considered that the defendants do not assert"
any claim of title under him or in connexion with him; and-,.
the other circumstances of the case lead to-the presumption,that he never setup any possession adverse to the society's
rights ; for the possession was. yielded without objection to
the town, when the act of 1794 enabled the town to assert-a
title to it.
The act of 1785, being then in terms applicable only tocases where -the cause of action accrued before the passing
of that act, cannot govern this case where -no such cause
-existed. - There is, moreover, another difficulty in setting it
up as a bar, if the proviso of the nirnth section extends, as
we-think it does,'to every section of the act. - It has been
argued by the counsel for the defendant§, that the ninth.sece
tion ought to be restricted in its operation to the eight preceding sections. But we- see no sufficient reason.for this.
The Words are 1" that this act shall not extehd," &c. ; not that
-

-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[The Society for the'Propagation, &c. -s. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

the prior sections of this act shall not extend, &c. It wouldbe strange, indeed,'if the legislature should interfere to pre.
vent, any improvements being paid for, in cases of lands
granted or sequestered for public, pious,.or charitable uses;
and yet:should allow so short a period as three years to bar,
for ever, the right of the grantees for charity. There are good
grounds why statutes of limitation shoild not be applied
against, grants for public, pious, and charitable usesi when
they may well be applied against mere'private rights. 'The
public have a deep and permanent interest in such charities;
and that interest far. outweighs all considerations if mere
private convenience. The legislature of Vermont has
thought so; for we shall find, in its subsequent legislation',
that it has by a similar provision excepted from the operation of all the.subsequent statutes of -limitation, grants-to
such uses. There is then no reason why the' court should
construe the words of the ninth -section as legs extensive
than their litc:al import. The case ought to be'very strong,"
which- would justify any court to depart from th.e terms 'of
an act;, and especially"to adopt a restrictive constructionwhich is subversive of public rights, and justified by no
knowii policy of the legislalure. We feel compelled, therefore, to construe the words, that "-this act shall not extend,'
&c." as embracing the whole act, and carving an:exception
out of the operation of the eleventh, section of it,
. Let us then see how far any. subsequent statute of limitations of the state applies to the case., The next statute in
the order of time, is the act bf. the "10th -of March 1787,
which provided as follows: ,, that no writ of right- or other
real action, no action..of.ejectment, &c. shall "h e reaftei
be suedi:&c. for the recoveiy nf any-lands, &c. where the
cause of actibn shall accrue after thepassingof tis act, butwithin fifteen years next after the 'cause 'of action shall accrue to the plaintiff or demandaint, and those under whom he
or they may claim. And that no, person having a right'of
entry into any lands, &c.. shall hereafter thereinto enter butwithin fifteen years after such right -of. entry shall accrue."
this act contained oproviion excepting grants.for public,
pious, or charitable uses from its 6peration.. 'But it contained
VOL. I.-a
0

506 .

SUPIREME COURT.

[The Society for (lie Propagation, &c. vs. The Toawn of Pawlet, &c.]

a proviso that the act should not extend to bar any infant,
person imprisoned, or beyond seas, without any of-the United
States. The act was prospective, and applied only where
the cause of action accrued after the passing of it. This
act was superseded and repealed by another act of the 10th
of November 1797, which constitutes the present governing
statute of limitations of the state. It contains, however, a
proviso (sec.i 3) that the act shall not be construed to extend to or affect any right or rights,-action or actions, remedies, fines, forfeitures, privileges, or advantages,accruing
under any former act or acts, claose or clauses of acts falling
within the construction of that act, in any manner whatsoever; but that all proceedings may be had, and advantages
taken thereon, in the same manner as though that act Iad
not been passed; and that the f6rmer act or acts of limitation, clause or clauses 6f acts, which are or were in force at
the time of passing the act, shall, for all such purposes, be
and remain in full force. This provis6 preserved the operation and force of the act of 1787, as to causes of action accruing in the intermediate period between the act of 1787,
and the act of 1797.
It this view of the matter, it is important to consider the
entry of the defendant under the lease of the town, on the
.16th of April 1795. If that entry was adverse to the title
of the plaintiffs, then the act of 1787 began to run upon it
from that period; for the cause- of action of the plaintiffs
then accrued to them by the ouster.
It has been contended by the plaintiffs' counsel, that the
entry of Clarke under. the 'lease in 1795, was an entry for
the plaintiffs, and in virtue of their title, and not adverse
to it. We do not think so- The town of Pawlet claimed
the right to the property, not as tenants .to, or subordinate
to.the right of the plaintiffs ; but as grantees under the state.
Their title, though derivativ6 from, and consistent with the
original title of the plaintiffs, was a present claim in exclusion of, and adverse to the plaintiffs. They claimed the, possession, as their own, in fee simple; and not as the possession
of the plaintiffs. A vendee in fee derives his title from
the vendor; but his title, thougi derivative, is adverse to

JANUARY TERM 1830
tie Propagation, &c. vs. The Town ol PdwIl,
LTie Society foi

507
C..]

that of the vendor., He enters and holds possession for him.
self, and not for the vendor. Such was the doctrine of this
court in Bligfit's Lessee vs. Rochester, "7Wheat. Rep. 535,
547, 548. The lessee in the present case did not enter to
maintain the right of the plaintiffs, but of the town. He
was not the lessee of the plaintiffs, and acquired no possession by their consent, or with their privity. This entry then
was adverse to any subsisting title in them, and with an intention to exclude it. It Was therefore, in every jusL sense,
an entry adverse to, and not under the plaintiffs.
The case then falls within the act of 1787; and unless
the plaintiffs are 11 beyond seas" within the proviso of that
aCt, they would, upon the mere terms'of that act, be barred.
The facts stated upon the record, do not enable us to say
whether there is absolute proof to that effect. The' plaintiffs are a foreign corporation, the members of which are
averred to be aliens and British subjects ; and the natural
presumption is, that they are resident abroad. If so, there
cannot be a doubt, that they are within the exception. If
any of the corporators were resident in the United States,
then a nicer question might arise as to the effect of the
proviso; whether it applied to the corporation itself, or to
the corporators, as representingthe corporation. But this
it is unnecessary to devise; and on this we give no opinion.
There is the less reason for it, because, by a subsequent"
at, passed on the I th of November 1802, (long before the
fifteen years under the act of 1787 had runt,) it was provided "that nothing contained in any statute of limitations
heretofore passed, shall be construed to extend to any lands
granted, given, sequestered or appropriated to.any public,
pious, or charitable uses ; or to any lands belon,ging to this
state. And any proper action of cjectment or other possessory action may be commenced, prosecuted, or defended for.
the recovery of any such land or lands, any thing in any act
or statute of limitations hcretofore, passed to the contrary
notwithstanding." This act of course suspended the act of
.1787, as to all cases. within its purvicv. That the grants to
the society for the propagation of the gospel were deemed
to be grants for pious and charitable" uses withli it, is ap-

SUPREME COURT.[The Society for the Propagation, &c. bs. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

parent from the subsequent legislation of the state, as well
as from the objects of the institution. In November 1819
the legislature. passed an act repealing this exception, so far
as related to the rights "of lands in the state, granted to the
society for the propagation of the gospel in foreign parts,"
thus plainly'declaring that they were previously protected
by it. This repeal'cannot have any retrospective operation,
as to let in the general operation of the statute. of limitations in the intermediate period'between 1802 and 1819;
but must upon principle be held to revive the statute only
in future. The present suit was brought in 1824, and the
statute period of fifteen years had not then run against the
plaintiffs.
It is unnecessary to enter upon the consideration of the
statute of limitations of 1797, which contains similar provisions as to this subject with that of 1787, and the exception
of persons "beyond seas.'
Charitable and.. pious grants
were not- excepted from its operation ; -but that defect was
cured by an act passed on the 26th of October 1801, in
terms similar.in substance, to thpse of the act of 1802, already
referred to. The act of 1797, applies in terms only to future
causes of.action,'to causes of action accruing after the passing of the act;.and limits the action to the period of fifteen
years. If it baa tpplied to the, present case, it would have
been open to the same reasoning upon the exceptions, which
have.been.already suggested in reference to the act of'1787.
Upon this.,second question our opinion is, that a certificate ought to be sent to the Oircuit court, that the plaintiffs
are not barred by the three. years' limitation, in the act of
the.27th of October 1785, or by any other-of the statutes of
limitations of Vermont..
The next point is, whether, under the laws of Vermont,
the plaintiffskare entitled to recover mesne profits; and if
so,. for vhat length of time.
Previous to the year-1797, the 'English/'action of ejectment was in -use in Vermont, and- the common law applicable to it,.as well a.the action.for mesne profits consequen'fial upon rbcdvery in ejectment. By an'.act passed on the
2d of March 1797, the mode of Oroceeding .as altered.

JANUARY TERM 1830.,
[The Society for the Pro jagation, &c. -s. The Town of Pawlet, &c.]

The suit was requiredto be brought directly between'the
real parties, and against both landlords and.tenahts ; and by
that and a subsequent act, the judgment was 'made conclusive between the parties. It was further provided, that in
every such -action, if judgment-should be rendered for the
plaintiff, he should recover, as well his.damages;asthe seisin
and possession of the premises. - This provision has ever since
remained in full force, and has superseded-in such cases- the
action for mesne profits. In November 1800,'an act was
passed, declaring, "that in all actions of ejectment which
now are, or hereafter may be brought, the plaintiff shall
recover nothing for the mesne profits, except upon such
part of said improvements as were made by the- plaintiff, or
plaintiffs, or such person or persons under whom he, she -or
they hold." The act contained a proviso, that it should not
extend to any person or persons in possession of any lands'
granted for lublic or pious uses. This act continued in
force until November 1820, when an act passed containing
the same general provision as to the mesne profits; but the
proviso in-favour of lands granted to pious and charitable
uses was silently dropped, *and must bre deemed -to be repealed by implication.
The question -then is, whether, the act of 1820 does not
take away the right to mesne profits in this case; for the
state of facts does not show that any improvements have
ever been made by the plaintiffs. The treaty of peace of
1783; the British treaty of 1794, do not apply to the case.
The right of action, if any, of the 'plaintiffs, did not accrue
until the year 1795. The entry then made by the defendants was the first ouster; and at that time, in the action of
ejectment, the plaintiffs could not have recovered any damages; but would have been driven to*an action of trespass for
mesne profits. The legislature was competent to regulate
the remedy by ejectment, and to limit its operation. It has
so limited it. It has taken away by implication the right to
recover mesne profits, as consequential upon thee recovery
mn ejectment, and given the party -his damages in the latter
action. It has prescribed the restrictions upon~which mesne
profits shall be recovered;. and these %restrictions are obli-

SUPREME COURT.
[The Society for the Pcopagation, &c vs. The Town ul Pewlet, &c.j

gatory upon the citizens of the state. The plaintiffs have
not, in this particular, any privileges by treaty beyond those
of citizens. They take the benefit of the statute remedy to
recover theii right to the lands ; and they must take the remedy with all the statute restrictions.
Upon this last question our opinion is,,that it ought to be
certified to the circuit court, that under the laws of Vermont
the plaintiffs are not entitled to.'recov-6r. ny.mesne 7profits-;
unless so far as they can brihig their cse within the provisions of the third section of the act of the 15th of November
1820.
This cause came on to. be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Vermont, and on the points or questions on which
the judges of the said circuit court were opposed in opinion,
and which points or -questions were certified to this court
for its opinion, in pursuance of the act of congress for that
purpose made and provided, and was argued by counsel;
on consideration whereof, it is ordered by this court, that
it be certified to the said circuit court, on the points aforesaid, that this court is of opinion, 1. That the plaintiffs
have shown that they have a right to hold lands, and especially the lands in controversy. 2. That the plaintiffs 'are
not barred by-the three yeais limitation in the act of the
27th of October 1785, or by any other of the statutes of
limitations of Vermont. And, 3. That under the laws of
Vermont, the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover any mesne
profits, unless so far-as they can bring their case within the
provisions of the third sectiQn of the act of Vermont of the
15th.of November 1820. All of which is accordingly.here'by certified to the said circuit court of the United States
for the distridt of Vermont.

