JANUARY TERM 1830.

B6Yc

AND HENRY, PLAINTIPFS

iN ERROR 'V.

111

TmIOTHY EDWARDS,

DEFENDANT IN ERmoR.

Action on two bills of exchange drawn by Hutchinson, on B. and H. in favour
of E. which the drawers, B. and H. refused to accept, and with the amountof which bills E. sought to charge the defendants as acceptors, by virtue of an
alleged promise before the bills were drawn.
The rule on this subject is laid down with great precision by this court, in the
case of Coolidge vs. Payson, 2 Wheat. 75, after much consideration, and a
careful review of the authorities; that a letter written within a reasonable time
before or after the date of a bill of exchange, describing it in terms not to be
mi staken, and promising to accept it, is, if shown to the person who afterwards takes the bill on the credit of the letter, a virtual acceptance, binding
on the person who makes the promise. [121]
Whenever the holder of a bill seeks to charge the drawee as acceptor, upon some
occasional or implied undertaking, he must bring himself within the spirt
of the rule laid down in Coolidge vs. Payson. [121]
The rule laid down in Coolidge vs. Payson requires the authority to be pointed
at the specific bill or bills to which it is intended to be applied, in.order that the
party who takes the bill upon the credit of such authority may not be mistaken
in its application. [121]
The distinction between an action on a bill, as an accepted bill, and one founded
on a breach of promise to accept, seems not to have been attended to. But
the evidence necessary to support the one or the other, is materially different.
To maintain the former, the promise must be applied to the particular bill
allegect in the declaration to have been accepted. In the latter, the evidence
may be of a more general character; and the authority to draw may be collected from circumstances, and extended to all bills coming fairly within the
scope of the promise. [122]
Courts have latterly leaned very much against extending the doctrine of implied
acceptances, so as to sustain an action upon a bill. For all practical purposes in commercial transactions in bills of exchange, such collateral acceptances are extremely inconvenient, and injurious to the credit of bills; and this
has led judges frequently to express their dissatisfaction that the rule has been
carried so far as it has; and their regret that any other act, than a written acceptance on the bill, had ever been deemed an acceptance. [122]
As it respects the rignts .rn- the remedy of the immediate parties to the promise
to accept, and all others who mayfl-ke billsaupon the credit of such promise,
they are equally secure and equally attaiaable_ b an action for the breach hi
the promise to accept, as they would be by an action on the bill itself. [123]
The contract to accept the bills, if made at all, was made in Charleston, South
Carolina. The bills were diawn in Ceorgia, on B. and H. in Charleston, and
with a view, to the state of South Carolina for the execution of the contract.
The interest is to be charged at the rate of interest in South Carolina. [123]

SUPREME COUWT.
[Boyce and Henry vs. Edwards.].

ERROR to the circuit court of South Carolina.
An action of assumpsit was brought in the circuit court of
South Carolina by Timothy Edwards, a citizen of the -state
of.Georgia, against Boyce and Henry, merchants of Charleston, upon two bills of exchange drawn by Adam Hutchinson
at.Augusta, Georgia, on the plaintiffs in error, dated the 27th
of February A827, payable sixty days after sight, amounting
together to four'thousand four hundred and thirty-one dollars.
The.bills were duly protested for non-acceptance and .non,payment.
The plaintiff in the circuit court gave in evidence a letter
from Boyce, Johnson and Henry, dated at Charleston, March
9, 1825.
"MrEdwards-Mr Adam Hutchinson of Augusta is authorised to draw on us for the.amount of any lots.of cotton e
may buy and ship to us, as soon. alter as opportunity will
offer; such drafts wilL be duly hoioured."
He also gave in evidence the following notice, signed by
Kerr, Boyce, -and George Henry, which was published in the
Chaileston newspaper, on the 28th of March 1825.
"The co-partnership heretofore existing, under the firm
of Boyce, Johnson and Henry, is -this day dissolved by the
death of Mr Samuel Johnson, Jun. The business will bd
conducted in future. by the subscriUeis under the firm of
Boyce'and Henry, who improve this opportunity of returning thanks'to their friends for their liberal patronage, and
hope by assiduity and attention, to merit a continuance of

their support."
The plaintiff also gave in evidence a letter from Boyce
- and Henry to Adam Hutchinson, dated September 14,1826,
which contained these words. "But in-the mean time if you
can buy cotton on gbod terms, you are at liberty to draw as
before."
Also a letter from the same to the same, dated the 16th of
September 1826, advising him of the sale. of a -large parcel
of cotton, and saying, "we wrote you last mail with authority to draw on us as usual, if-you could buy.to make here
at 8 to 9 cents."
Also another letter from the same to Adam Ifutchinson

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Boyce and Henry vs. Edwards.]

of January the 4thl 1627. "Your favour of the. 1st ibstant
is received. -You have 'entirely mistaken us as to our losing
confidence in you: our idea is this, we are unable to keep
so large a sum beyond our control, as the amount which'is
now standing on our books. -For instance, should any accident happen to you, where would be the money to pay your
drafts which are now on us and are accepted . Should you
die; the cotton or money would of course be held by who,
ever manages your estate. But to come to the point; we
feel every disposition to give you every facility in our
power; you are, therefore, at liberty'to draw on us when
you send the bill of lading. We do not put you on the footing of other customers, for we do not allow them to draw
for more than three-fourths in any instance. You may draw
for the amount,' &c.
Also a letter of February the 17th, 1827, acknowledgiil
the receipt of the bill of lading for one hundred and fiftyeight bales of cotton, and stating as follows: "your bills
have been presented which you gave -to Timothy Edwards,
which we would have accepted, had we heard from you concerning the first bill," &c.
The plaintiff then gave in evidence a letter from Adam
Hutchinson of February the 7th, 1827, to Boyce and Henry,
saying, " the cotton by the Edgefield, you will please have
reweighed and put into store, as I do not wish it sold until
the draft drawn against it becomes due. I am shipping by
the Commerce one hundred and nineteen bales cotton; it
cost $3,320," &c.
Also a letter of the 9th of February 1827, from Adam
Hutchinson to Boyce and Henry.
"After writing you by last'mail, I bought thirty-nine bales
of cotton more, and shipped it per the Commerce, &c-.: the
thirty-nine bales cost ,here one thousand one hundred and
eleven dollars, &c. I *yesterday drew upon you two draffs
for two thousand three hundred and thirty one dollars, and
for two thousand one hundred dollars, at sixty days, in favour
of Mr. T. Edwards, which please honour."
The defendants in the circuit.court objected to the readVOL. IV.-P

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyce and Hemni vs. Edwards.]

ing. in evidence the letters frorii Boyce, Johnson and Henry,
to Timothy Edwards, in March 1827 ; also to the letters from
Boyce and Henry ; and from Adam Hutchinson to Boyce and
Henry. 'But the objections were overruled by the court.
The court stated to the jury, that the letter of Boyce,
Johnson and Henry, of the 9th of March 1825, in connexion
* with other evidence in the' cause, was sufficient to charge
the defendants in the circuit court,.as acceptors. The court
relied principally on the fact, that Boyce and Henry, on the
.12th of'April 1825, a few days after, they had announced the
dissolution of the co-partnership of Boyce, Johnson and
Henry, had credited themselves in the account current which
accompanies the bill ofexceptions, with the sum of$1,313-58
due by Adam Hutchinson to the late firm ; thus identifying the firms, and continuing the responsibility under the letter of guarantee to the plaintiff, dated 9th March, 1825.
The court also relied upon the continued. acceptance and
payment; by the defendants, of numerous bills, between the
date .oFthat letter and 15th February 1827, previous to which
day, viz. on the 12th February 1827, they refused :to accept the bills in question.
The court also charged the jury, that, unless, from all the
circumstances, the jury should believe that the plaintiff knew
of, the letter from Boyce and Henry of the 4th of January
18.7, addressed to A. Hutchinson, and that lie took the bills
of 8th February, 1827 upon the faith of that letter, it would
not lcgally bind them to accept the said bills; but that it wasentirely a question for the jury, whether the plaintiff had
dealt with Hutchinson on'the faith of that letter; and, moreover,-whether he had ot rxotwas immaterial, because the
previous letter, the notice, the accounts rendered, and the
.numerous bills drawn and accepted, were ample authority
for'the plaintiff to take the bills in question." The court also
instructed the jury, that the true-qu etion was, whether the
plaintiff had dealt with' Hutchinson on his credit, o r on the
credit of Boyce and Henry. That the terms of the letter of
the 4th of January having been complied with, the defendants were bound, in good faith, to accept thd drafts of the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Boyce and Henry vs. Edwards.)

8th of February ; that the money raised by the sale of the one
hundred and fifty-eight bales 6f cotton must be regarded as
the money of Edwards and not of Iutchinson; that it was
not material whether the letter was written before or after
the bill was drawn; for in either case it was, according to
law, an acceptaice.
A verdict and judgment were entered for the plaintiff in
the circuit court, allowing the plaintiff interest according to
the laws of Georgia; and the defendants, having moved for a
new trial which was refused, brought this writ of error.
They contended: that the charge of the court was errondous; and that the verdict of the jury was contrary to law.
1. Because the letter of credit from Boyce, Johnson and
Henry to Timothy Edwards, in favour of Adam Iutchinson,
in March 1825, was inadmissible as evidence against Boyce
and Henry; and at all events it gave no authority to Hutchinson to draw on Boyce and Henry.
2. Because the other circumstanceg relied-upon by the
court to identify the firms of Boyce, Johnson and Henry, and
Boyce and Henry, so as to extend the obligations of the said
letters from.the former to the latter; .were wholly insufficient
for that.purpose, or for making the defendants liable on other
grounds.
3.Because the letters of Boyce and Henry to Adam Hutchinson, and from Hutchinson to Boyce and Henry, were inadmissible as evidence in this case; and even if they were not,
they could create no right or obligation, as between Ed ..ards
and Boyce and Henry, particularly. as no proof was adduced
to show ihat these letiers.were known to Edwards when he
took the drafts.
4. Because the accounts current between Boyce and
Henry and Hutchinson, produced by the plaintiff, showed
that at the time the drafts we-e drawn, Hutchinson was indebted to the defendants nearly $10,000, and the proceeds
of the one hundred and fifty-eight bales of cotton were rightly
applied to that balance.
5. Because Georgia interest ought not to have been allowed.
6. Because the charge of the judge, and the findng of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyce and Henryvs: Edwards.]

jury, were erroneous in the foregoing particulars, and in several others.
Mr M'Duffie, for the plaintiffs in 'error, stated that the
practice in South Carolina was to move the court for a new
trial, and on its refusal to take a writ of error.
The question in this case depends upon the law of acceptance, the plaintiffs in error.asserting thatthey were not bound
to accept or pay the hills of exchange, which are the subjects of this suit.
The first point to be maintained by the plaintiffs in error
is, that the letter of Boyce, Johnson and Henry ought not
to have been admitted to prove a claini on the firm of Boyce
and Henry, as the firms were different and distinct. The
death of Johnson dissolved the partnership, and terminated
their obligations. A promise to one firm cannot be transferred and made available to another. 4 Taunton, 693.
There are good reasons why this responsibility should not
be~asserted. The death of Johnson gave a new position to
the parties; and the partnership of Boyce and Henry was
liable only for its own engagements. According to the
principles which have been established in this court, even
the firm of Boyce, Johnson and Henry would not have been
bound to accept these bills., Was the stipulation in the letter to be everlasting q This court has said, that a letter of
credit shall not be binding on any one, beyond a reasonable
time.
The charge on the books of the plaintiffs was a mode of
keeping the accounts, but this does not prove that the'firms
were identical. Their cohtinued acceptances are relied upon; they do" not prove the obligation to accept bills which
they refused.
Is the letter of Boyce, Johnson and Henry, if it boUnd the
new firm, available to prove -a contract with Timothy Edwards, who never saw the letter !. The law upon this matter
is settled definitively. A verbal promise .to accept a' bill
before it is drawn, is not binding. This is sustained by all the
authorities. 1 East, 106. 4 East, 74. 4 Cowp. 393. In
Coolidge vs. Payson, in this court, 2 Wheat. 66, the court

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Boyce and Henry vs. Edwards.]

lay down the principles which regulate this subject. The
bill must be. taken with a knowledge of the promise to accept, and upon the credit of that promise. The plaintiff below did not know of the contract in this case, if any existed.
In England, the judges have endeavoured to limit the liability to accept lills to be drawn. Holt's Rep. 181. Chitty
bn Bills, 219, note. Such bills are injurious to the safety of
commerce. They create a floating and an uncertain capital.
Before the plaintiffs in error should have been held liable, it
should have been proved that Edwards saw the letter.
As to thd allowance of interest, according to the law of
Georgia, the contract to accept and pay, if any was made,
was enteted into in Charleston. The bills, although drawn
in Georgia, were to be paid in Carolina; and there the letters
were written on which the plaintiff in the circuit court relied
to establish the.liability of the -defendants. It was therefore
exclusively a contract in Carolina, and the law' of that state
was thelaw of the contrbet'as to interest.
*Mr Berrien, for the defendant in error, argued; that the
letter of Boyce,.Johnson and Heiry, of the 9th of March
1825, taken in connexion with the advertisement of the 29th
of that month, and the continued course of business carried
on between the parties up to 1827, when the bills in the suit
were drawn; bound the plaintiffs in rror to accept the bills
drawn by Adam Hutchinson. The objection to the admission
of the letter of the 9th of Marei 1825, is, that it was not the
act of the parties to this suit; but this was the precise ques-

tion between the plaintiff and the defendants in the circuit
court. It was therefore a question of the effect of that letter
on the rights of the plaintiff, and no other. It-was proper to
submit it to the jury, who would draw their conclusion of its
operation and of its application, from all the circumstances.
Independently of that letter, the mere course of trade between the parties, from March i825 to February 1827, created
an implied obligation on the part of Boyce and Henry to accept the bills drawn by Hutchinson in the course of that Irade;
until notice of the revocation of his authority to draw bills.
If the letter of the 4th of January is considered as a re-

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyce and Henry vs. Edwards.] '

vocation of the general power to Hutchinson, still the terms
of that letter seem to have been complied with, and the obligation of Boyce and Henry under that letter was complete.
The.principles upon which the defendant in error rests,
have been established in Coolidge vs. Payson, 2 Wheaton,
66. A person who takes a bill on the credit of a promise
to accept it, if drawn in a reasonable time, has a right to recover; the promis:-L a virtual acceptance. The right of
Hutchinson to draw was known to Edwards.
The general notice given by Boyce and Henry, on the
28th of March 1825, that they had succeeded to the business of the former firm, was an assumption of the obligations
of that. firm; and in proof of this, they accepted bills drawn
on the firm of Boyce, Johnson and Henry, after the advertisement. In .their accounts with Hutchinson, he is charged
with the balance due to Boyce, Johnson and Henry. After:
wards, thirty-one bills drawn by Adam Hutchinson in the
same course of business were accepted and paid, amounting to sixty-seien thousand eight hundred and sixty-five
dollars. These acts were a ratification on their part of the
authority given on the 9th of March 1825.
As regards Edwards, Hutchinson may be considered as the
agent of the plaintiffs in error, purchasing on their account,
and on their guarantee: The letter of the 27th of January
1827 would then only affect the defendant, if he had. notice
of it; and if he had, as the terms of that letter were complied with, they were bound tq accept the bills. If the
terms were not conformed to, this should have been proved
in the court below by the plaintiffs 'in error.
The letter of the 4th of January 1827, was a distinct and
substantive agreement to accept on certain terms, which
were complied with on the part of -the drawer; and if Edwards took the bill on the faith of that letter, the plaintiffs
were bound. This question was properly left to the jury by
the court.
Mr Justice TnomPsoN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of assumpgit, brought in the circuit
court of the United States for the district of South Caro-

JANUARY TERM I S30.
[Boyce and Henry vs. Edwards.]

lina, upon two bills of ex-change drawn by Adam Hutchin- L
soi, in favour of Timothy Edwards, the plaintiff in the court
below, upon Boyce and Edwards the defendants, both bearing date on the 8th of February 1827; the one for two thou-_
sand one hundred dollars, and the other for two thousand
three hundred and -thirty-one dollars, payable sixty days
after sight.
The cause was tried before the district judge ; and in the
course of the trial, several exceptions were taken' on the
part of the defendants below to the admission of evidence,
and the ruling of the court upon questions of law; all which
are embraced in the charge to the jury, to which a general
bill of exceptions was taken; and the cause comes here upon
a writ of error.
The bills of exchange were duly presented for acceptance,
and on refusal were protested for non-acceptance and nonpayment; but the plaintiff sought to charge the defendants
as acceptors, by virtue of an alleged promise to accept
before the bills were drawn. And whether such liability
was established by the evidence, is the main question in the
cause. The evidence principally relied upon for this purpose consisted of two letters, the first as follows : "Charleston, March 9, 1825. Mr Edwards-Dear Sir, Mr Adam
Hutchinson of Augusta is authorised to draw on us for the
amount of any lots of cotton which he may buy and ship to
us, as soon after as opportunity will offer; such drafts shall
be duly honoured by yours, respectfully, Boyce, Johnson
and Henry."
Johnson soon after died; and on the 28th of the same month
of March, the defendants published a notice in the Charleston newspapers, announcing a dissolution of the partnership
by the death of Johnson, and that- the business would be
conducted in future under the firm of Boyce and Henry.
The other letter is from the -defendants, of the date of the
4th of January 1827, addressed to Adam Hutchinson, in
which they say, ." you are at liberty to draw on us when you
send the bifl of lading. Wa do not put you on the footing of
other customers, for we do not allow them to draw for more

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyce and Hemy vs.XEdwards.]

than three-fourths in any instance. You may draw for thet
amount," &c.
The defendants' counsel had objected to the admission of
the first letter from Boyce, Johnson and-Henry; and contended, that this did not blind Boyce and Henry to accept
bills drawn on them after the dissolution of the partnership
was known, and desired the court so to instruct the jury. But
the court stated to the jury, that the said letter, in connexion
with the other evidence in the cause, was sufficient to charge
the defendants as acceptors. The other evidence referred
to by the court, as would appear from other parts of the
charge, was the letter of the 4th of January. 1827; the notice
of the dissolution of the partnership; the accounts rendered
by the defendants; and the numerous bills, drawn and accepted by them, all which had been given in evidence in
the course of ihe trial.
According to the view which we take of the instruction
given by the court below at the trial, that the defendants upon
•the evidence were liable as acceptors,it becomes very unimportant to decide whether the letter of Boyce, Johnson and
Henry should have been admitted or not. For we think, in
point of law, there was a misdirection in this respect; even if
the letter was properly admitted. We should incline, however,
to the opinion, that this letter, at the time wheh.it was offered and objected to, and standing alone, would not be admissible evidence against the defendants. It was dated nearly
two years before the bills in question .were drawn, and was
from a different firm. It was evidence between other and,
different parties. A contract alleged to have been made by
Boyce and Henry, could not be supported by evidence that
the contract was made by Boyce, Johnson and Henry. It
might be admissible, connected with other evidence showing that the authority had been renewed and continued by
the new firm; and in support of -anaction on a promise to
accept bills drawn on the new firm. But that was not the
purpose for which it was received in evidence, or the effect
given to it by the court in the part- of the charge now
under consideration. Itwas declared to be sufficient, in

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Boyce and Henry vs. Edwards.]

connexion with the other evidence, to charge the defendants as acceptors. And in this we think the court-erred.
Had the letter been written by the defendants themselves, it
would not have been sufficient to charge them as acceptors.
The rule on this subject is laid down with. great precision by this couit, in the case of Coolidge vs. Payson, 2
Wheat. 75, after much consideration, and a careful review
of the authorities: "that a letter written within a reasonable
time, before or after the date of a bill df exchange, destribing it in terms not to be mistaken, and promising to accept
it; is, if shown to the person who afterwards takes the bill on
the credit of the letter, a virtual acceptance, binding the
person who makes the promise." This case was decided in.
the year 1817. The same question again came under consideration in the year 1828, in the case of Schimmelpennich,
et al. vs. Bayard, et al. I Peters, 284, and received the particular attention of the court, and the same rule laid do'wn
and sanctioned; and this rule we believe to be in perfect
accordance with the doctrine that prevails both in the English and American courts on this subject. At all events,
we consider it no longer an open question in this court; and
whenever the holder of a bill seeks to charge the drawee as
acceptor, upon some collateral or implied undertaking, he
must bring himself within the spirit of the rule laid down. in
Coolidge vs. Payson: and we think the present case is not
brought within that rule.
With respect to the letter of the 9th of March 1825; in
addition to the objection already mentioned, that it is not an
authority to draw emanating from the drawees of these billi;
it bears date nearly two years before the bills were drawn;
and what is conclusive against its being considered an acceptance is, that it has no reference whatever to these particular bils, but is a general authority to draw at any time,
and to any amount, upon lots of cotton shipped to.them.
This does not drnscribe any particular bills in terms not to be
mistaken.
The rule laid down in Coolidge vs. Payson requires the
authority to be pointed at the specific bill or bilJI to which
VOL. IV.-Q.

SUPREME COURT.
[Boyce and Henry vs. Edwards.]

it is intended to be applied ; in order that the party who
takes the bill upon the credit of such authority may not be
,mistaken in its application.
And this leading objection lies also against the letter of
the 4th of January 1827.. It is a general authority to Hutchinson to draw, upon sending to the defenidants the bills of
lading for the cotton. This is a limitation upon the authority containedin the former letter, even supposing it to have
been adopted by the new firm; and must be considered-, pro
tanto, a revocation of it. Hutchinson is only authorised to
draw, upon sending the. bills of lading to the defendants.
And although it may fairly be collected from the evidence,
that that was done in the present case ; it does not remove
the great objection, that it is a general authority, and does
not point to any particular bills, and describe them in terms
not-to be mistaken, as required by the rule in Coolidge vs.
Payson. The other circumstances relied on by the court to
charge the defendants as acceptors, are still more vague
and indefinite, and can have .no such effect.
The court therefore erred in directing the jury, that the
evidence was sufficient to charge the defendants as acceptors, and the judgment must be reversed.
Thedistinction between an action on a bill, as an accepted. bill, and -one founded on a breach 4of promise to
accept, seems not to have been adverted to. But the evidence necessary to support the one or the other, is materially
different. To ma'ntain the former, as- has been already
shown, the promise must be applied to the particular bill
alleged in the declaration to have been accepted. In the
latter, the evidenee may be -of more general character, and
the authority'to draw may be collected frorm circumstances,
and extended to all bills coming fairly within the scope of

a

the promise.
Courts have latterly leaned very much against extending
the doctrine of implied acceptances, so as to sustain an
action upon the bill. For all practical purposes, in commercial transactions in bills of exchange, Such collateral acceptances are extremely inconvenient, and injurious to the
credit of the bills ; and this has led judges frequently to ex-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Boyce and Henryps. Edwards.]

press their dissatisfaction, that the rule had been carried as
far as it has; and their regret that any other act, than a written acceptance on the bill, had ever beendeemed an acceptance.
,As it respects the rights and the remedy of the immediate
parties to the promise to accept, and all others who may
take bills upon the credit of such promise; ,they are equally
secure, and' equally attainable by an action for the breach
of the promise to accept, as they could be by. an action on
the~bill itself.
In the case now before the court, the evidence is very
strong, if not conclusive, to sustain an action upon a count
properly framed upon the breach of the promise to accept.
The bills in-question appear to have-been drawn for the exact amount of the cost of the cotton shipped at the very
time they were drawn. And if the bills of lading, accompanied the advice of the drafts, the,transaction came within
the -authority of the letter of the 4th of January 1827 ; and
if satipfactorily shown that the bils were taken upon the
credit of such promise, and corroborated by the other circumstances given in evidence, it will be difficult for the
defendants to resist a recovery for the amount of the-bills.
With respect to the question of interest, we think, that if
the plaintiff shall recover at all, he will only be entitled to
South Carolina interest. The contract of the defendants, if
any was made upon which they are responsible, was made
in South Carolina. The bills were to be paid there; and
although they were drawn in Georgia, they were drawn, so
far as repects the defendants, with a view to the state -of
South Carolina for the execution of the contract.
The judgment of'the circuit court must be reversed; and
the cause sent back with directions to issue a venire de novo.

