SUPREME COURT.

AnA

BARTLE vs. WILLIAM

D. NUTT, ADXIMISTRATOR or GEORGE
COLESIA..

A contract was made for rebuilding fort Washington, by M. a public agent,,
and a deputy ,quartermaster general, with B.; in the profits of which M. was
to participate. False measures of the work were attempted to be imposed on
the government, the success of which was prevented by the vigilance of the
accounting officers of the treasury. A bill was filed to compel an alleged partner in the contract to account for and pay to one of the partners in the transaction, one half of the loss sustained in the execution of the contract.
Held that; to state such a case is to decide it. Public morals, public justice,.
and the well established prificiples of all judicial tribunals, alike forbid the interposition of courts of justice to lend their aid to purposes like this. To
enforce a contract which began with the corruption of a public officer, and
progressed in the practice of, known wilful deception in its execution, can
never be approved or sanctioned by any court.
The law leaves' the parties to such a contract as it found them. If either has
sustained a loss by the bad faith of a particeps criminis, it is but i just infliction
for premeditated and deeply practised fraud. He must not expect that ajudicial tribunal will degrade itself, by ah exertion of its powers to shift the loss
from one to the other, or tQ equalise the benefits or burihens which may have
resulted from the violation of every principle of morals and of law.

THIS was hn appeal.from the circuit court of the county
of Alexandria, in the district of Columbia. The appellant
was complainant in that court.
The case was argued by Mr Swann and Mr Jones for the

appellant, and by Mr Taylor for the appellee:
Mr Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the .Cou. :.
This suit was brought on the chancery side of the circuit
.court of the district of Columbia for the county of Alexandria,
by the appellant (complainant) against the appellee (respondent). The object professed is to obtain a settlement of
accounts arising'out of a partnership charged to have existed
between the complainant and respondent and one Ferdinand
Marsteller.
The bill charges, that in 1814, a contract was entered into
between the 'complainant and the government of the United
States for rebuilding fort Washington.

185

JANUARY TERM 1830:
[Bartle vs. Coleman.]

That when the contract was made, it was agreed between
the respondent, Ferdinand Marsteller, and the complainant,
that they should share the profits of the contract-that is,
that each of them should receive one third part of the profits.
That the respondent was to furnish the concern with such
merchandize as might be necessary, disburse the funds' of
the concern, and keep the accounts relative to such disbursements; that the complainant was to superintend the work,
and Marsteller to drawing and furnishihg the money for car-.
rying it on.
The bill charges that under this arrangement the work was
commenced and finished, and that on its measurement it was
supposed a profit had been made of about four thousand five
hundred dollars; and that accordingly one thousand five hundred dollars were advanced to the respondent as his share of
the profits.
That, about the clbse of the business, it was discovered.
that Marsteiler had committed -great frauds on the government; and that the complainant gave information of these
frauds 'to the department of war, in consequence of which
Marsteller was disgraced, and-soon after died insolvent.
That, soon after this development, the respondent instituted suit against the'complainant for a balance-claimed on
his store account, and for money disbursed by him for com
plainant. That the complainant instituted a cross action
against the respond'nt; and both suits were, by mutual consent, referred to arbitrators.
That when the reference was made, the complainant. expected that the arbitrators would go into a full examination
of the partnership accounts in relation to the government
contract, as well as in relation to the individual accounts of
the parties. But that when the arbitrators proceeded to act,
they declined looking on the transactior as a partnership
one, and thought themselves bound to consider th'e accounts
as unconnected with that concern; and finally awarded
and
against the complainant four thousand four
ninety-seven dollars and forty-two cents, in which was included' an allowance of one thousand five hundred dollars
for Coleman's share of the profits of the contract, and one
-hundre.d

VOL. IV.-Y

SUPREME CQtJRT.
[Bartle vs. Coleman.]

thousand five hundred and thirty-four dollars for commissions
in disbursing the money received from the government.
That the copartnership has been always indebted to the
complainant on account of the contract with government.
The.bill then proceeds to some details respecting the accounts, at this time-not important, and prays for an accourit.
and general relief.
The answer admif6 that the dbmplainant in 1814 entered
into a contract with Ferdinand Marsteller, agent for the
United States, for the rebuilding of fort Washington; with
the terms and conditions of which contract the respondent
had no concern.
That it being necessary to have an agent in Alexandria to
procure supplies for carrying the contract into effect, and as
Marsteller had, expressed a wish that the money should be
disbursed through the agency of the respondeilt, and that the
respondent should keep the accounts, between Marsteller
and the complainant; the latter agreed that the respondent
should act as agent, and in the first instance offered him as
a compensation, a share of the profits, and the complainant
afterwards offered him a commission of-five per cent. on the
disbursements. That the respondent accepted of the latter
offer, and under it entered on the agency, after having refused
the .first.
The respondent denies that he was in any shape interested
as a copartner with the complainant and Marsteller, or with
either of them, in relation to the said contract, or that he ever
received any share of the profits; but admitsthe charge of a
commission of five. per cent. on the money disbursed by him.
He admits that the complainant having refused to pay the
balance due from him to the respondent on private account,
he did institute suit against him. That a cross suit.was
brought by the complainant against the respondent. That
both suits were referred to arbitrators, who awarded in the
respondent's favour the sum of four thousand four hundred
and ninety-seven dollars and foriy-two cents. That on the
investigation before the arbitrators, the complainant set up
as an offset the same claim which he prosecutes in this suit,
and that it was rejected as unsupported by evidence.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Bartle us. Coleman.]

The respondent relies on that award, and the judgment on
it, as a bar to further proceedings.
The cause came on to be heard on the bill and answer,
and after various proceedings, not necessary to notice, the
bill was dismissed without costs; the court being of opinion
that the partnership charged was contrary to public policy
and sound morals, and that a court of equity ought not too
lend its aid to either of the parties "againstthe other.
Among the exhibits in the cause was the contract betwe'en
the complainant and the government, dated 17th September 1814, signed and sealed by complainant, and witnessed
by Thomas Lowe.
"Accepted for the United States by order of colonel Monroe, secretary of war. September 30th, 1814.
F. MARSTELLER,
Deputy quartermastergeneral.
The proposition for this contract was addressed by B-Artle
to Marsteller in writing, and the contract was signed on the
same day.
From the evidencetaken in the case, it clearly appe6i:
that Marsteller acted as the agent of the United States in
makingthe contract.. That the materials furnished, and the
labour performed, were under the direction of Barile. That
the money was principally received from the government by
Marsteller, paid over by him to Coleman, who dispersed it
on the orders of Bartle. There can be no doubt that Bartle
and Marsteller were parthors in the profits of. the contract;
but the cap.city in which Coleman acted does not seem to
be so certain. There is very strong evidence of his being a
partner; but it is not very material whether he was an agent
or a party in a contract made and carried into effect under
the circumstances which attended this. The shades of difference which would in either event distinguish the moral or
legal aspect of the cause, are .too slight to engage the attention of the court.
By the account of the complainant against'the firm of
SMarsteller, Coleman and Bartle, it appears that his chprgcs
amount to fifty-eight thousand three .hundred and seventyfour dollars; and that there is'a loss to the conearn of tun

SUPREME COURT.
[Bartle vs. Cbleman.]

thousand five hundred and thirty-eight dollars, one half of
which.he charges to Coleman ; and hb seeks to recover this
by deduating the amount from a judgment obtained against
him by Coleman, in the circuit court, affirmed here on a writ
of error.
Of the alleged loss on this .contract, the sum of eight
thousand eight hundred and sixty dollars is' thus accounted
for in the complainant's account against the firm.
"To- deductions made by the government (which . are
against the operative mechanic) frdm the work and materials. Vide Abstracts, B. F.. Eight thousand eight hndred and sixty dollars of this sum." Of this sum it appears
by abstract B. that three thousand one hundred and ninetyeight dollars were for an overcharge of fifty cents per perch
of stone, and fifty cents per thousand of bricks, beyond the
contract price; and by abstract F., that five thousand aix hundred and %ixty-onedollars were for over measurement of stone,
brick and carpenter work ;.so that deducting these two items
from the amount of the loss on the contract, it is reduced to
one thousand six hundred and seventy-eight, dollars.
The case then presented for the consideratioD of the.circuit court, and,,now-before us for revision, is this: a contract
made by the complainant with a public agent, a deputy
quarterumaster gefieral, to an amount exceeding fifty thousand
dolldrs, in the profits of which he was to participate; false
measures attempted to be imposed on the government; the
fraud discovered by the vigilance of its accounting officers;
and a bill in equity filed to compel an alleged partner to
account for; and pay to one of the parties in such a transaction, the one hilf of a loss sustained by an unsuccessful
attempt to impose spurious vouchers on the*government.
To state such a case is to decide it. Public morals, public
justice, and the well established principles of all'judicial
tribunals, alike forbid the interposition of co.urts of juL.ice
to lend their aid to purposes like-this. To enforce a contract
which began with the corruption of a public officer, and
progressed in the practice "bfknown and wilful deception in
its execution, can never be consummated or sanctioned by
-any court.

JANUARY TERM 1830.

189

[Bartlo vs. Coleman.]

The law leaves the p -ties to such a contract ds it found
them.' If either has sustained a loss by the bad faith of a
particeps criminis, it is but a just infliction"for premeditated"
and deeply practised fraud; which, when detected, deprives
him of anticipated profits, or subjects him to unexpected
losses. He must'not expect that a judicial tribunal will
degrade itself by an exertion of its powers, by shifting the
loss from the one to the other; or to equalise the benefits or
burthens which may have resulted by the violation of every
principle of morals and of laws.
This court is unanimously of opinion, that the -circuit
court 'were right in dismissing the complainant's bill. and
affirms their deciee with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States, for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the-county of Alexandria, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged, and docreed by this court, that
the decree of.the said circuit court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby affirmed with costs.

