JANUARY TERM 1830.

JOHN W. KING AND OTHERS, APPLLA.NT

31-1

. JAxEs HAxIITox,

J&Mns STEicER ANzmFRANCES HIS Wu'E, HF.zxicAx FuLES'E,
AB &x HNCy AwD JoHN Hornqs, APPELLEES.
The complainants, in the circuit court of Ohio, filed a bill to enforce the specific
performance of a contract. The bill states that there is a surplus of several
hundred acres, and by actual measurement it is found to be eight hundred and
seventy-six acres: the natent having been granted for. one thousand five
hundred and thirty three and one-third acres; beyond the quantity mentioned
in the contract.
It is a fact of general notoriety, that the surveys and patents for lands within the
Virginia military district, contain a greater quantity of land than is specified
in the grants. Parties, when entering into a contract for the purchase of a tract
of land In that district, and referring to the patent for a description, of course
expect that the quantity would exceed the specified number of acres. But so
large an excess as in the present case, can hardly be presumed to have been
within the expectation of either party. And admitting that a strict legal interpretation of a contract would entitle the purchaser to the surplus, whatever it
might be, it by no means follows, that a 'court of chancer" will in. all cases
lend its aid to enforce a specific performance of such a contract. [021]
The powers of a court of chancery to enforce a specific execution of contracts,
are very valuable and important. For in many cases where the remedy at law
for damages is not lost, complete justice cannot be done wiiho"ut a specific
execution. And it has been almost as much a .matter of course fo: a court of
equity to decrea specific execution of a contract for the purchase of lands,
where in its nature and circumstances it is unobjectionable, as it is to give
damages at law, where an action wilt'iie for a breach of the contract. But
this power is to be exercised under the sound discretion of the court, with an
eye to the substantial justice of the case. E328]
When a party comes into a court of chancery seeking equity, he is bound to do
justice; and not ask the court to become the instrument of iniquity. When a
contract is hard and destitute of all equity, the court will leave parties t6 their
remedy at law; and if that has been lost by negligence, they must abide by
it. [328]
It is a settled rule in a bill for specific performance of a'contract, to allow a defendantto show thatit is unreasonable, or unconsciencious, or founded in mistake or other circumstances leading satisfactorily to the conclusion that the
granting of the prayer 6f the bill would be inequitable and unjust. Gross negligence on the part of the complainant has great weight in cases of this kind.
A party, to entitle himself-to the aid of a court of chancery for a specific execution of a contract, should show himself ready and desirous to perfom hi
part. [328]
If this large surplus of eight hundred and-seventy-six acres in a.patent for one
thousand five hundred and thirty~thrie and one third acres should bY taken as
included In the original purchase, it might well be considered a case of gross
inadequacy of price. [329]

SUPREME COURT.
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]
When there was so great a surplus of land in the patent beyond that which it
called for, nominally, as that it could hardly be presumed to have been within the
view of either of the parties to the contract of sale; the court decreed a conveyance of the surplus, the vendee to pay for the same at the average rate per
acre, with interest, which the consideration money mentioned in the contract
bore to the quantity of land named in the same. [330]

APPEAL from the circuit court of Ohio.
In the circuit court for the district of Ohio, James Hamilton, James Strickerand Frances his wife, late Frances Hamilton, heirs at law of Alexander Hamilton and others, grantees
of Alexander Hamilton, filed a bill for a specific performance of a contract entered into between Elisha King, the
father of John W. King, one of the appellants, and Alexander Hamilton, on the 8th of February 1815, for the sale of
certain lands in the state of Ohio within the Virginia military district, between the little Miami and the Scioto river.
The contract was in the following terms:
"I this day sell to Alexander Hamilton all my lands lying
on the Miami river, in the state of Ohio, one thousand five hundred and thirty-three and a third acres, as by patent in my
name; also, three hundred and thirty-three and one third, takefn
off the lands patented in the name of Sackville King, of one
thousand acres. This land of three hundred and thirty-three
and one third acres, taken from S. King's, isto be done adjoining to the entry of E. King's of one thousand five hundred and
thirty-three and one third. He, the said Hamilton, is bound to
pay to Elisha King, for this land, nine hundred and forty-six
pounds sixteen shillings of current money of Virginia, in
three annual payments, beginning December 25, 1805 ; then
to pay three hundred and fifteen pounds twelve shillings.
Also, in the years of 1806 and 1807, on each Christ's day, or
before, to make the full payments, as is above. The manner
and agreement made by us is in payment as tenders: the said
Hamilton takes to this country horses, to be sold at twelve
months' credit, taking bond and good security, which bonds
is lawful tenders from year to year; and, on these tenders
being made, the said King is bound to give to the said
Hamilton good titles to the said lands. We do bind ourselves,
our heirs, executors, administrators, firmly, by these pre-

JANUARY TERM 1830[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

sents, in the penalty of two thousand pounds, in this our
bargain. Given under our hands and seals."
When this contract.was made, Elisha King had a patent
forhisentryNo. 1548. Sackville King's entry, No 1549, was
held by him without any title to it; and afterwards, in 1812,
Sackville King's whole entry was conveyed by him to another,.who now holds the same. Alexander Hamiltoh entered
on No. 1548 immediately after his purchase, supposed to be
one thousand five hundred and thirty-three and one-third
acres; and, with others holding under him, male valuable
improvements on it, and still holds possession of the-same.
The bill states that Hamilton continued to make payments
until the 22d June 1809, at which time, he having paid one
half of the purchase. money of the tract estimated at one.
thousand five hundred and thirty-three and one-third acres,
King made a conveyance to him of seven hundred and
.sixty-six and two-thirds acres, supposed to be a conveyance
of one half of the same. .The bill dharges, that there was a?
largb surplus of several hundred acres, and that this sale was
in gross; and insists on a conveyance of the whole of the
lands in No. 1548. The patent to Elisha King for No. 1548
bears date the 10th of March 1804, and is for "a certain tract
of land containing one thousand five hundred and thirty'three and one-third acres," as by survey bearing date the
13th of April 1792; and sets forth the metes and bounds,
according to this survey.
The bill claims an allowance for the loss of three hundred
and thirty-three and one-third acres of Sackville King's
entry ; and proceeds to state and charge sundry payments
since the conveyance of the 22d of June 1809, the last of
which was made on the 26th of March, 1818. It then admitt that there was due at the time of filing the bill, on the
tract of one thousand five hundred and thirty-three and onethirds acres (deducting the consideration money expressed in
the conveyance for seven hundred and sixty-six and twothird acres, the rateable value of the other tract of three
hundred and thirty-tbree and one-third acres which was lost,
and all the subsequent payments,) the sum of one thousand
VOL. IV.-2 P

SUPREME COURT.
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

seven hundred dollars yetto be paid by Hamilton
to King
on the contract for the one thousand five hundred
and thirtythree and one-third acre tract; which sum
they say they
were alWays. re;dy to pay since the death of
Alexander Hamilton, if -they could have procured a fair settlement;
and
also, -that they are informed and believe that
AlexanderlHamilton, when he could have a settlement and
receive a titl6,
was. always ready in his life time to make payments.
The
bill thdn goes on to .state a.number of improvements
made
on. that part of the -land not conveyed by King
to Hamilton;
which improvements are stated to have been
made by Hamilton and' the other appellees, claiming by purchase
under him.
The -bill then prays an injunction to a judgment
in ejectment, recovered at June term 1824 for that
part of the tract
of one thousand five hundred and thirty-three
and one-third
acres, not conveyed. It asks a decree for a
conveyance, on
payment of the. balance; and for general relief.
The answer denies that the sale was in gross,
and also that
the complainants were. at any time ready
to perform the
agreement, by the payment of -the purchase
money for the
tract which was agreed to be sold; and alleges
that the payment of the same was evaded and delayed, although
frequent
promises of performance were made. To this
answer there
was a general -replication.
. At-January term 1826, an agreement
was entered into by
the parties, (which being entered of record,
'takes the place
of an interlocutory decree,) in order to settle
so much of the
controversyj; that there was then due to King,
on the purchase
Money and interest, one thousand eight hundred
and ninetysix dollars eighty-eight cents, after deducting
five hundred
and sixty-six dollars sixty-six cents on account
of the land
sold, included in Saclville King's patent, which,
with interest from that time, was all that'was to be paid
King, if the.
court decreed that the contract covered the
surplus above
one'thousand five hundred and thirty-three
and one-third
acres, in the entry i548. The times" for paying
that sum
were agreed; -and, also, that on the payment,
deeds should
he executed by respondents, coveridg the whole
land, if the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

contract was"decreed to be in gross, and the injunction be
made erpetual against the proceedings in ejectment, &c.
This agreement reserved for future decision the single question whether the contract of sale was a sale in gross,. or by
the acre, as to the land in the entry 1548; and concludes as
follows: "to avoid all dispute, it is the express understanding oftheparties,that the whole question concernifig the said
surplus land is reserved for future decision; and all claims
for damages respecting failure in the title for the- tract .of
three hundred and thirty-three and one-third acres of land, in
the bill. mentioned, are waived."
At July term 1826,, the court decreed, that the ale by
Elisha King to Alexander Hamilton, was a sale of the.whofe
of the land in -No: 1548; and that the defendant,. John W.
King, should, withintwo months, convey to the complainants,
in fee simple,,with covenants of special warrantry, the lands
not already conveyed by E. King to -Alexander Hamilton;
that the complainants, within tivo months,: should pay the
balance agreed, with interest; and that each .party should
pay.their own costs 'at ,or before the hext term. As to the
other defendants, the bill was dismissed generally.
From this decree John W. King appealed to-this court.
For the appellants it wascontended, by. Mr Doddridge:
1. That, under the 'agreement ente red into by the parties
to the suit at January term"1826, John. W. King reserved
to himself the right to urge, as to the surplds land, whatever
could have been urged as to the relief claimed for the land
not surveyed, as well as every other separate defence which
he had a right to make as to the surplus, independent of the
agreement.
2. That no evidence was given in the case' to establish the
fact, that the payments made by Hamilton were fot the land
not conveyed; and that the payments made were to be applied to tlie land which had been conveyed. So that, for
the' land not conveyed, nothing had been paid for a period
of nineteen years.
3. . o possession of the land not conveyed was delivered
by King to Hamilton.

SUPREME COURT.
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

4. That the sale was not a sale jn gross; and the sale in
gross, having been denied in the answer, and no- evidence
given, the court erred in finding for the appellees.
5. That the appellant ought not to be required in a court
of'equity to yield the title -to so large a surplus without
compensation, and without the clearest proof of the agreement.
The law of Virginia regulating lands under military grants,
declares, that as to the surplus 'lands in a grant, any one may
-give the warrantee notice to survey the quantity included in
the grant; and if he neglects or refuses to do so,-he may,
after-twelve months, apply to the county court, and have a
survey made for himself; and he may then enter the*surplus
land, and thus become the legal owner of it, This gives
the original grantee a right of pre-emrption to all the surplus
beyond five per cent, which is allowed~in every grant. This
must be done during the life of the original grantee, and
during the continuance of his title; after a sale, and after a
descent cast, the right to the surplus is abandoned by. the
state to the grantee.
In Ohio; there is no court to which an application for a
resurvey can be addressed ; and therefore the right to the
surplus lands in the Virginia reservation of military lands in
that, state is complete in the grantee, unless it was so great
as to amount to a fraud.
The right therefore of King to the whole land included
-in the grant, it being within the Virginia reservation, is complete. At law, it is necessarily so; and this is recognized in
Taylor vs. Brown, 5 Cranch, 234, 241 ; and it is so in equity.
Dunjap. v$. Dunlap, 12 Wheat. 574.
The surplus lands are therefore to be considered as having passed to Elisha King, as fully n.%if the whole actual
quantity had been stated in the grant.
It is next assumed as a position, that whenever there is
jn excess or deficiency of .quantity of lands sold, and both
parties are ignorant of the fact at the time of the sale, equity
will relieve the party aggrieved, by adding to or reducing
the purchase money pro rata; and the relief given proceeds

JANUARY TERM 1830.
(King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

on the ground of mistake. In support of this principle there
have been decisions in the courts of Virginia. I Call, 301.
2 Hen. and Munf. 244. Hall vs. Cunningham, 2 Hen. apd
Munf. 336. In a note to'this case, authorities are referred
to for the purpose ofshowing what relief ought to be granted under certiin circumstances. 2 Hen. and Munf.'161,
179, 175, 177. 1 Hen. land Munf. 201,
These authorities establish: 1. That if the excess be considerable, and the same of a deficiency, and eaqh party is
innocent; there should be a dissolution of the whole contract. 2. If the excess or-deficiency be small, and there has
been no evictions, there should be an addition to or deduction from the gross sum, after the rate of the whole contract.
3. If deeds have been made and possession given, and there
has been an eviction of part, compensation should be decreed according to the value at the .time of the eviction'.
Cited, also, 8.Cranch, 371, and note to the same case, p.
375.
These cases show, that there is a general rule to give relief
where the excess exceeds five per cent; and that this relief
will be denied when the contract was for a gross sum;. or
where the vendor had perfect knowledge of the land, and
the vendee had not, but the vendee took upon himself the
risque as to lines and quantity. That courts lean against
the establishment of such contracts, having a gaming or iminoral tendency. That whatever may be the terms of the
written contract, the fact of a sale by tl~e acre or in gross,
lies in averment; and consequently, where either of these
facts is charged in the bill as a ground for relief, ind the
ground is denied in the answ&r, the answer will prevail with-'
out prooi ol t . fact; and the bill will be dismissed, the answer being responsive to a material charge in the bill. That
the words' "mr ore ot it ss," and proof that the whole tract
was sold, are not of themselves sufficient .c p euent relief;
and' there is no adjudged case proceeding on that ground
alone. An examination, with reference to these authori-ties, of tie contract between Elisha King and"Hamilton, will
abundantly show, that had the whole pr9perty sold been

SUPREME COURT.
[King and others bs. Hamilton and others.]

conveyed, and paid for by Hamilton, a discovery of the surplus afterivards would have entitled the vendor to relief.
The situation of the country settled, and the property held
by each grantee well known ; the relations of the parties to
it, Hamilton living on adjoining lands, and King iesiding at
the distance of six hundred miles, arid. ignorant, of the practice-of including a much larger quantity of land in the survey ihan the grant called for; are circumstances which should
materially operate when the transactions and the -claims
arising out of it are considered.
It is confidently asserted, that the facts of this case will
not authorise a court to decree a specific performance of the
contract; -independent of the principles and. the rules of law
which have been urged. While it is admitted, that for a forfeiture'orecasioned by a breach of his contract, the vendor may
be the'subject of relief in a court of equity in favour Qf a vendee; it is relied upon, that the vendee must account for'his
himL
tion-performance by circumstances which Will exculpate
self. -In this case, the failure of Hamilton to pay.for the land
accoraing to the cdntract isfully proved by the whole case.
Cited Picket tOs. Dondall, 2 Marsh. 115.
The counsel for the appellants also contended; that the
operation and just construction of the transactions between
tlie parties'wete, that thie payments made were to-be applied
to the pbrti~n of-the land which had been conveyed ; and thfat
this was considered.a performnce of the contract so far as
the.purchaser was entitled to the shm ,
He ,alto contended; that the object of .the- complainant
was not only to be relieved from a forfeiture, but also to
ask the'specific execution ,of a contract, certainly made under-a mistake, and by which hard and- unci~scionable terms
will be imposed on the appellanf. Courts of equity are not
:bound to decree a specific performance in all cases ; they do
so only at their,discretiofl; and they will withhold such a de-:
cree where, the 'terms would be hard, although no fraud
should be proved. ' 1 Wash. Rep. 270.

JANUARY TERM 1820.
[King and others vs.Hamilton anI others.]

-

Mr J.C. Wright, for the appellees.
In 1805 the whole tract was sold by Elisha King to Hamilton, referring to the patent by number and quantity. Hamilton took possession of the land under the contract, and improved it; and in 1809, a deed was made for one-half of one
thousand five hundred and thirty-three and one-third acres. Before the deed was made there had been no survey;.but anestimate of the quantity was made bythe parties.. In 1818, Elisha King conveyed the remaining half to John W. King, according to a survey then made; and thus he took the legal estate
subject to the agreement with Hamilton, to which he had been
a witness. He stands thus in the relations of his father; and
the estate held by him is subject to the equities of the appellees, as he had full notice ofthis contract. He does Pot stand
as an innocent purchaser, and entitled to favour; but if his
purchase was made to the injury of the rights of Hamilton, he
iq to be considered as an iiitruder. When he received-the
conveyance, more than half of the purchase money had been
paid; or was paid before this suit. Those who pqrchased
from Hamilton have improved the part so acquired; andthese
improvements are out of the seven hundred and sixty-six
and two-thirds acres conveyed by King.
All the questions in the case, except that of the right to the
surplus land, have been settled by the agreement of 1826.
The appellees upon that auestion contend that the sale was
ingross.
The court will go behind the deed executed by Elisha
King for part of the land, to ascertain what was the intention of the parties. I Call's Rep. 301It is denied, that the rule laid down by the counsel for the
appellant, as to surplus, exists. The principles which have
been established are, that when a sale is made by metes and
bounds; by general terms; where the whole thing is sold,.as
in this case, the land is described as held under a patent ; and
for a sum specified in amount, and not pro rata as to quantity ; it is a sale in gross : and the purchaser takes all the
.land within the boundaries. Cited 12 Wheat. 574.' Powell
vs.Clarke, 5 Mass. 355. 1 Caines, 493. 2 Jobns. Rep. 37.
Vowles et ales. Craig et al. 8 Cranch. 374. -Also. Sugaen

SUPREME COURT.
[King and tthers v. Hamilton and others.)
on Vendors, 200. 2 Bibb'sRep. 451. 1 Madd, Chan. 74,

76, 77. 1 Call's Rep. 301.
What is the contract !."I this day sell to Alexander Hamilion all my lands lying on. the Miami river in the state of
Ohio, one thwusa;d five hundred and thirty-three and a third
acres, as by patent in my name."
The case admits that -the patent referred to was the one
obtained on survey No. 1548; and'the survey sets forth the
ametes and bounds ofthe.trat within which is now the whole
claim of the appellees. The contract is therefore one for
the. hhole land, not jy quantity, but by p4tent ; and "all"
the lands of the vendor are sold.
Mr Justice THorn'soNr delivered the opinion.of the Court.
This case. comes up on appeal from the circuit court of the
United States, for the seventh cir'-uit, in the district of Ohio.
, The bill, in the court below, was filed for th purpose of
obtaining -the specifioexecution of a -contract entered into
between Elisha 'King, the father of John W. King, and
Alexander.Hamilton, the father of James Hamilton; and
also totenjoin all-further proceedings at law-on a judgment
in an action of ejectment, obtained by John W. King for the
recovery of possession of a part of the land alleged to have
been comprised within the contract.
The. answer lo-this bill is very inartificially drawn; but no
exceptions were taken to it, and the general replication put
in. No proofs were taken upon' the principal matters in dispute but thp cause came on to .ahearing upon the bill and
answer, and exhibits, and the agreement which had been entered into betweeu the counsel for the parties in the progress of.the cAuse. This agreement puts at rest many of
the questions that might otherwise have arisen, and reduces
the subject of dispufe to the single inquiry respecting what
called- by the parties the surplus land: and this involves
is.
the inquiries ; first,' whether this surplus is embraced in the
original contract, and if so.; then, secondly, whether, under
the -circumstances of the case, the complainants in the court
below have not lost their right to call upon a court of equity
to enforce a specific performance of that contract.

JANUARY TERM 1s30.

321

[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

The contract signed by Elisha King and Alexander Hamilton bears date on the 8th of February 1805, and is as follows : "I this day sell to Alexander Hamilton, all my lands
lying on the Miami river, in the state of Ohio, one -thousand
five hundred and thirty-three and one-third acres, as by patent in my name; also three hundred and thirty-three and onethird acres, taken off the lands patented in. the name of
Sackville King, adjoining to that entry of Elisha King, of one
thousand five hundred and thirty-three and one-third acres.
He, the said Hamilton, is bound to pay to Elisha King for
this land nine hundred and forty-six pounds sixteen shillings, current money of Virginia, in three payments, beginning Decemfiber the 25th, 1805 ; then to pay one hundred and
fifteen pounds twelve shillings, also, in the year 1806 and
1807, each Christmas day or before, to make the fill payments, as is above. The manner and agreement made by us is
in payment as tenders: the said lfamiltori takes to this country, horses, to be sold at twelve months credit, taking bond
and good.security, which bond is lawful tenders from year. to
year; and on these tenders being made, the. said King is
bound to give tb said Hamilton good title to said lands, &c."
The bill states, that ihere is a surplus of several hEundred
acres, beyond the specific quantity mentioned in the contract. The answer alleges, that from actual survey, the
patent is found to contain two thous.and four hundred and
nine and a half acres; which will leave a surplus of -eight
hundred and seventy-six acres; a quantity equal to more than
one half of the whole number of acres mentioned in the
contract.
It may perhaps be assumed as facts of general notoriety,
that the surveys and patents for- lands lying within the Virginia' military district, contain a greater quantity of-land
than is specified in the grant: and that parties would of
course, when entering into a contract foy the purchase -of a
tract of land, and referring to the patent for a description,
expect, that the quantity would exceed the specified number of acres. But so large an excess as in the present case
can hardly be presumed to have been within the expectation
of either party; and admitting that a stricf legal interpreVOL. IV.-2 Q

SUPREME COURT.
.[King and others .us.Hamilton and others.]

tation of a contract would entitle the purchaser to the surplis, whatever it might be, it by no means follows, that a
court of chancery will in all -cases lend its aid to enforce a
specific performance of such a contract.
The agreement entered into by the counsel which has
been hitherto, and which will be more particularly noticed
hereafter, puts an end-to all questions respecting the land,
to the extent of one thousand five hundred and thirty-three
and one-third acres. Otherwise it might well be questioned,
whether the complainant' in the court below could compel
a conveyance for any more than has already been conveyed
under the contract.
In 1809 a conveyance was given for seven hundred and
sixty-six and two-thirds acres; the full consideration for which,
after deducting five hundred and sixty-six dollars and sixtysix cents, for defect of title in Elisha King to .the three
hundred and thirty-three and one-third acres of land included
in Sackville King's patent, had not been. paid when the bill
was filed.
If the rights of these' parties were to be governed, and
determined, solely, by the question whether the contract
covers the surplus land, we should have no difficulty in coming to the conclusion that it does. There is nothing upon
the face of. the contract from which it can be satisfactorily
inferred that it was intended to be a sale by the acre. The
language of the contract on the part of King is, "I this
day sell to Alexander Hamilton, all my lands lying on the
Miami river, in the state of Ohio, one thousand five hun.dred and thirty-three and one-third acres, as by patent in
my name." Had it been intended a sale by the acre, the
l'anguage would doubtless have been, one thousand.five hundred and thirty-three and one-third acres of, or.a part of my
lands, &c.: instead of which it is "ail my lands, as by patent
in my name." Reference is made to the patent for a description of the land, and to ascertain the subject matter of the
contract. And whatdver would. pass under the pitent to
King, would be included in the sale to.Hamilton. The
number of acres is mentioned in reference to what appears by
the patent, (one thousand five hundred and thirty-three .aud

JANUARY TERM 1830,

323

EKing and others vs. Hamilton and others.).

one-third acres, as by patent in my name), and not as 'designating the precise quantity sold. But admitting the contractcovers the surplus land ; it is contended on the part of the
appellants, that a court of equity will not, under the circumstances of this case, enforce a specific performance of the
cbntract. It is insisted, however, on the part of the appellees, that all equitable considerations are precluded by the
agreement entered into by the counsel, which has been referred to; and that the..question is narrowed down to the
single inquiry, whether the surplus land is included in the
original contract of 1805.. If such is the construction to
be given to this agreement, the question has already been
answered. It becomes therefore very material to examine,
whether this is the fair and reasonable interpretation of the.
agreement. It is as follows.
1. "It is agreed that the complainants are at this time,
January 6, 1826, indebted to the said John W. King, one of
the defendants above named, for the balance of thd purchase
money, including up to the date aforesaid the interest, one
thousand eight hundred and ninety-six dollars and eightyeight centsfor the one thousandfive hundred andfifty-three
and one-third acres mentioned in the said bill 'of complaint.
This amount, it is agreed between the parties by their counsel, is now due to the said John W. King; after deducting
from the gross sum agreed to be paid by the ancestor of the
plaintiffs to the ancestor of the defendants, which will appear
by contract, five hundred and sixty-six dollars and Sixty-six
cents, for the three hundred and thirty-three and one-third
acres patented to SacKville King, mentioned in the contract;
to which the defendants, or their ancestor, never had title.
The sum of one thousand eight~hundred and ninety-six-dol-lars and eighty-eight cents is the whol& amount due the said
John W. Kingfor the one thousandfive hundred and thirtythree and one-third acres of land, the number of entry 1548,
as mentioned in said- bill; and it is hereby expressly understood between the parties, by their counsel, that the sum last
mentioned, if it should be decreed by the court hereafter, or
by the parties agreed to, that the surplus lands lying within
entry 1548, is covered by the contract before referred to, for

SUPREME COURT
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

the gross sum named ; the said sum, with interest from this
time until it is paid, is the whole amount due the defendant,
John W. King, upon said land contract; but it is fiereby
agreed between the parties, by counsel, that the question
whether the said contract covers the surplus in said entry
No. 1548, shall be reserved for future decision and determination; and whether the purchase for the sum mentioned in
said contract does not entitle the complainants to the surplus land said to be contained in said No. 1548 : and it is
hereby agreed by the parties, that the complainants shall
now pay to the clerk for the said defendants or counsel, seven
hundred and thirty dollars, part and parcel of the said sum
of one 'thousand eight hundred and ninety-six dollars and
eighty-eight cents,*befdre admitted to be due; and that the
said complainant shall pay the balance by the next term of
this court, or within a reasonable time afterwards. And it is
further agreed by the parties, by their counsel, that the said
John W. King, and the other defendants do join, if it appear
necessary, shall execute .to the complainants a good deed
with covehants of general warrantry for the land which the
complainants shall be entitled to under the contract aforesaid, immediately upon the payment of the purchase money.
It is further agreed by the parties, by their counsel, that the
complainants shall pay -the cost in the. action of ejectment.
brought in this court for the lands named in the bill, and the
costs of this suit ; to abide the decision of this court thereon.
It is further agreed by the parties, by their counsel, that
upon the payment of the whole of the purchase money which
may be due the defendants for said land, then, and in that
case, the injunction to be made perpetual. And, to avoid all
dispute, it is the express understanding of the parties, that the
whole question concerning the said suirplus land is reserved
for future decision; and that all claims for damages, respecting the failure in the title for the tract' of three hundred
and thirty-three and one-third acres of land, are.waived."
This agreement is 'somewhat obscurely worded, and its
construction not without difficulty. Doubts have been entertained by the court, whether the appellants have not
thereby precluded themselves from resisting a specific per-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

formance of the contract, on the equitable grounds that
might otherwise be set up. We have however come to.the
conclusion, that the appellants, as to the surplus land, have
reserved to .themseli'es thb right to set'up whatever could
have been urged against the relief sought, as to all the land
not conveyed, as if the agreement had not been entered into.
And that as to the surplus land, the case is open, and to be
considered entirely independent of the agreement.
Some of the leading objects of the agreement appear to
have been to settle and fix.'thp amount of payments that had
been made, and the deduction to be- allowed on account of
the failure of title Lo the land patented to Sackville King;
and to ascertain the balance due, which was found to be
one thousand eight hundred and ninety-six dollars and
eighty-eight cents, and which by the terms of the agreement
is declared to be the whole amount duefor the one thousand

five hundred and thirty-three and one-third acres: thereby
implying, that the consideration agreed to be paid, was for
that quantity Of land; and that as to that quantity no further
dispute existed : but at the same time providing, that if the
court should decree that the surplus land was covered by
the contract,-that balance should'be deemed the full consideration for the whole. And then adds, "but it is hereby
agreed, that-the question whether the said contract covers
the surplus land shall be reserved for future decision and
determination." Ifthis had been the only question intended
to be reserved,Ithe agreement would have stopped ,here:.therd
is no ambiguity 'thus far, or any necessity, for putting the
same question -ina diferent shape. But the argument goes
on, "and whether 'the purchase for the sum mentioned in
the contract does not entitle the complainants, to the surplus land said *to be contained in No. 1548."
Therd would appear -'obe two distinct questions reservc I
for future determination. 1. Whether the contract covers
the.surplus land: and if so, secouidly, whether the complain-.
ants are now entitled to it, by virtue of their original purchase. If this view of the agreement be corrwt, the second
question reserved must have been intended to leave open all
objections to-the claims for the surplus lands. If h6wever

326

SUPREME COURT.
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

the agreement had stopped here, there might have been serious doubts whether the 4uestion reserved was not, whether
the contract covered the surplus land. But the concluding
.clause in the agreement seems to have been added, to remove all doubts upon the question. "And to avoid all dispute, it is the express understanding of the parties that the
whole question concerning the said surplus land is. reserved
for future decision." If the onli question reserved was,
whether the contract covered the surplus land, there was no
necessity or fitness in this last provision. That question
had been explicitly and in terms reserved; and to superadd
to it, that the whole question concerning the surplus was reserved, will admit of no other reasonable construction, than
that as it respected such surplus, the case was to stand as if
the agreement had not been made.
This being the construction given .by the court to this
agreement of the counsel, it remains to inquire whether the
complainants in the court below made out a case, which,
according to the rules which prevail in courts of equity,
bntitled them to a specific execution of the contract as to
the surplus land.
This part of the case has not been much pressed upon the
court, and it is difficult to perceive on what grounds it can
be sustained. To have.enforced &specific execution of this
contract would, at any time and under any circumstances,
have been.granting a strict legal right against the substantial justice and equity of the case.
To show this, it is only necessary to state some of the leading facts in this case. The contract bears date in the year
1805, and by it all the payments for the land were to be
completed in Decembor 1807, on which the title was to have
been given. Payment only of a part of the purchase money,
and not even to one half the amount, had been made when
the bill was filed. No remedy at law therefore ever did exist. The purchaser never was in a situation when he could
aver performance of the contract on his. part. It is very
evident, that no consideration whatever has been given for
this surplus land. The price was doubtless estimated by
theparties upon the specific number of acres, (although the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

sale was not by the acre), and which at that time was probably Supposed to be nearly the quantity of land covered by
the patent to King. This howeyer turns out to be other-'
wise. The surplus is very largd, amounting- to more than
one-half the number of acres mentioned in the contract.
There dre' no grounds for charging eithei party with any
knowledge of this fact. King manifestly could not have
known it, or. it would not have been entirely overlooked in
the sale. And Hamilton ought not'to.be charged with a
knowledge of it, without satisfactory evidence; as it would
be imputing to him a gross fraud. It is therefore a case of
mutual mistake, or ignorance of an important fact, in relation to the.subject matter of the contract; and that contract
still executory, and now sought to be enforced as to lands
for which no consideration has been paid. It is therefore a
case in which the parties ought to be left to their strict legal
rights.
The bill 'alleges that Hamilton, in his life time, made
valuable improvements on that part of the land not included
in his deed of 1809. When these improvements were made,
does not appear. The contract is silent as to the time when
the purchaser was entitled in the possession, and the bill
does ,not allege that possession was taken, or the .improver
ments made, with the assent of King1 ; and the answer expressly denies that-King put Hamilton in possession of any
part of the.land except that for which the deed was given
in 1809, and alleges that the possession of any other part
unlawful.
was without authority, and
In 1818, John W. King, one of the appellants, became
the purchaser of all the lands not included in the deed of
1809. He was, it is true, a purchaser with notice of the
contract between his father and Hamilton, but he"also had
notice of all the.circumstances with respect to his failure in
making payment; and that he had not at that time made
payment even for the land which had been conveyed to him.:
and no further payments had been made when this bill was
filed, or any disposition shown -on the part of the appellees
to perform the contract on their part: and the bill in this
case was not filed until nearly seven years from that time,

SUPREME COURT..
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

and not'until a judgment in ejectment had been obtained,.
to recover possessioli of the.land not. covered by the deed
of J1809.
All the payments made upon this purchase might well be
applied to-the land which has already been conveyed; and
was it not for th6 agreement entered into by the counsel, the
complainants in the court below would have had no equita-ble grounds for asking a specific execution of the contract
for any portion of the one thousand five hundred and thirtythree and one-third acres not included in the deed of 1809.
But that agreement has put an end to all questions in relation to the residue of the one: thousand five hundred and
thirty-three and one-third acres ; leaving the case open, as
we understand it, to-all objections to a specific execution of
the conttact as tQ the surplus land, to the same extent as if
the agreement had not been entered into.
Pid this case then, thus made out in the court below, entitle the complainants to a speicific execution of the contract
as to the surplus land '.. We think it did not, according to
the well settled rules of courts of equity on this subject.
This branch of the powers of a court-of chancery is very
valuable and important. For in many cases, even where the
remedy at law for damages is not -lost,'complete justice cannot be done without a specific execution ; and it has become
almost as much tr matter of course f6r a court-of equity to
decree a spqcific execution of a contract for the purchase of
lands, where in its nature and circumstances it is unobjec-tionable, as it is to give damages at law, where an action will
lie for a breach of the contract. But this power is to be
exercised under the sound judicial discretion of the court,
with an eye to the substantial justice of the case. When a
party comes into a court of chancery, seeking equity, he is
bound to do justice, and riot ask the courf to become the in-strument of iniquity. Where a contract is hard, and destitute of all equity, th&court will leave parties to their remedy
at law; and if that has been lost by negligence, they must
abide by it. It'is a settled rule, therefore, to allow a de,fendant in a bill for a speciht; peformance.of a contract,
to show that it is unreasonable or unconscientious, or founded

JANUARY TERM 1830.
- [King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

in mistake, or other circumstances, leading satisfactorily to
the conclusion, that granting the prayei of the bill ivould
be inequitable and unjust. Gross negligence on the part of
the complainant, has great weight in cases of this kind. A
party, to entitle himselfoto the aid of a court of chancery for
the specific execution of a contract, should show himself
"eady and desirous to perform on his part. ZThe~e are familiar and well settled rules'in courts of chancery, and have a
strong bearing upon this case. If this contract had been
carried into execution by giving a conveyance for the land,
a court of chancery would not have given relief to the other
party. *Butthe contract is still executory ; and the complainants, after the lapse of twenty years, seek for the specific execution of a contract which has not been performed
on their part, and the execution of which would be manifestly unjust and unequitable.
If this large surplus* of eight hundred and seventy-six
acres should be taken as included in .he original purchase,
it might well be considered a case of gross inadequacy of
price.
So far therefore as -the imrhediate" rights of the complainants are involved, no equitable claims has been sustained for
Aspecific execution of the contract for the surplus land. It is
however alleged in the bill, that sales have taken place, and
valuable improvements made upon parts of the land not covered by the deed of 1809. Thig is not denied in the answer,
although it is alleged that such improvements were iffade without the assent of King. No proofs have been taken with respect to these .impr.ovenents. Their value and extent are
left altogether uncertain. But the rights of third persons,
who may'be bona fide purdhasers under Hamilton's supposed
title, may be materially affected by dismissing the bill as to
the surplus land. Some diversity of opinion has existed
amongst us as to the final decree, on account-of those iinprovements. We have however come to the conclusion,
that the complainants in the court below shall have a decree for the surplus land, at the average rate or price which
the consideration mentioned in the contract bears to one
thousand eight hundred and sixty-six and two-thirds acres,
VOL. IV.-2 R

SUPREME COURT.
EKing and others ,vs. Hamilton and others.]

the number of acres specified in the purchase; todether with
the interest thereon, from the 25th of December 1807, being the tim at which all the payments were to have been
coinpleted, according to the contract. The decree of the
circuit court must be so modified. It should have required
payment of the consideration money before the conveyance
was to be given. Such are the terms.of the original contract, and also of the agreement of the 6th: of January 1826.
Tfie decree of the circuit court as to John W. King, must
accordingly be reversed, and affirmed as to the-other defendants in the court below; and the cause sent back with instructions to cause a-survey to be made, to ascertain the
number. of acres contained in the patent; and that, on paym ent of the balance and interest due according to the settlement made on the 6th of January 1896, and also a further
sum for the surplus land above one thousand five hundred
and thirty-three and one-third acres, according as the quantityshall be found on actual survey, at the same average
rate or price as in the original cortract, with the interest
therefor from the 25th day of December 1807 ; then the said
John W. King to be required to make and execute a good
.and sufficient deed of conveyance in fee simple to the complainants in the court below, for all the lands contained in
the patint to Elisha King mentioned in the pleadings,-and
which have not been already conveyed by the deed of Elisha
King, bearing date the 22d of June 1809. The money'to b&
paid and the deed executed, at such time as ihe cirpuit'court
.shall direct. The injunctioh to be continued for such
time,
and under such modificatioh, as shall be judged necessary by
the circuit court for the purposi of carrying this decree into
effect.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the.
record from the circuit court of the United'.States for the
district of Ohio, and -was' argued by counselN on consider"ation whereof, it is decreed and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the said circuit court in tliis cause 4e, and.
the same is hereby reversed as to John W. King, .and that

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[King and others vs. Hamilton and others.]

the said judgment in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed as to the other defendants in the court below. And
it is further ordered and adjudged by this court, that this
cause be; and the sane is hereby remanded to the said circuit court, with tnstructions to cause a survey to be made, to
ascertain the number of acres containedin th6 patent; and
that on payment of the balance and interest due according
to the settlement made on the sixth of January in the year
of our Lord eighteen'hundred and twenty-six, and also a
farther. sum for the surplus land above fifteen hundred. andthirty-three and one-third acres, according as the quantity
shall be found on actual survey, at the kame average rate or
price, as in the original contract, with the interest therefdr
from the twenty-fifth of December eighteen hundred and
seven; then the said J6hn W. King to be required to make
and execute a good and sufficient deed of conveyance, in
fee simple, to the complainants in the court below for all
the lands contained in the patent to Elisha King, mentioned.
in the pleadings, and which have notbeen aleady conveyed
by the deed of Elisha King, bearing'date the twenty-second
of June eighteen hundred and nine. The money to be paid
and the deed executed at such time as the said circuit court
shall direct. The injunction to be continued for such time,
and under such modification, as shall be judged necessary
by the circuit court for the purpose of carrying this decree.
into effect.

