SUPREME COURT

Hnux Ca.xa, JoHN

MooRE AND EpHnAn

Moo=. vs. THn STAz

OF MIssOURI.
On the 27th day of June 1821, the legislature of the state of Missouri passed an
act, entitled "an act for the establishment of loan offices;" biy the third section
of which, the officers of the treasury of the state, under the direction of the
governor, were required to issue certificates to'the amount of two hundred
thousand dollars, of denominations .not exceeding ten dollars, nor less than fifty
cents, in thd following form:" This certificate shall be receivable at the treasury, of any ofthe loan offices in the state of .Missouri,in dischargeof taxes
or debts due to the stateforthe sum of-dollars,
with Interestfor the
same, at the rate of two per centuft per annum from this date." These
certificates were to be receivable at the treasury, and by tax gatherers and
other public officers, in payment of taxes, or moneys due orto become due to
the state, or to any town or county thereinj and by all officers, civil and military, in the state, in discharge of salaries and Wes of office; and in payment
for salt made at the salt springs owned by the state, and to be.afterwards leased
by the authority of the legislature. The twenty-third section of the act pledges
certain property of the state for the redemption of these certificates ; and 'the
law authorises the governor to negotiate a loan of silveroi.gold for the same
purpose. A provision is made in the- law for the gradual withdrawal of the
certificates from circulation; and all tne certificates have since been redeemed. The commissioners of the loan offices were authorised to make loans
of the certificates to citizens of the state, assigning to each district a proportion
of the amoiot of the certificates, to be secured by mortgage or personal security ; the loans to bear interest not exreeding six per cent per annum, and the
loans on personal 2roperty to be for less than two hundred dollars. Held, that
the certificates issued under the authority bf the law of Missouri, were "bills
of credit;" and thlit their emission was prohibited by the constitution of the
United States, which declares that no state shall "emit bills of credit."
A promissory note given for certificates issued at the loan office of Chariton in
Missouri, payable to the state of Missourii under- the act of the, legislature
•establishing loan offices," is void.
The action was assumpsit on a promissory note, and the, record stated, "that
neither party having required a jury, the cause was submitted to the court; and
the court having seen and heard the evidence, the courtfound that the defendants did assume as the plaintiff had declared ; that the consideration for the
note and the assumpsit, was for loan office certificates, loaned by the state of
Missouri at her loan office in Chariton, which certificates were issued under
. an act for establishing lan offices, &c." Held, that it could not be doubted that the declaration is on a npte given in pursuance of the act of Missouri;
and that under the plea of non assumpsit, the defendants were at liberty to'
question the validity of the consideration which was the foundation of the
contract; and the constitutionality of the law in which it originated. The record, thus exhiUiting the case, gives jurisdiction to this court over the case; on

JANUARY TERM. 1830.

411

[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]
a writ of error prosecuted by the defendants to this court from the supreme
court of Missouri, under the provisions of the iwenty-fifth section of thejudiclaty act of 1789.
Every thing which disaffirms the contract; every thing which shows it to be
void; may be given iti'evidence.on the generl,issue, in an action of assump-"
sit. [426]
In its enlarged, and perhaps literal sense, the tarm, " hill of credit," may comprehend any instrument by which a state engages to pay money at a future
day; thus including a certificate given for money borrowed. But the language
of the -constitution itself, and the mischief to be prevented, equally limit the
Interpretation of the terms. Theword" emit" is never employed in describifig
those contracts by which a state binds itself to.pay money at a future day for
services actually received, or for- money borrowed for present use. Nor are
Instruments executed for such purposes, in common language, denominated
"bills of credit." "To emit bills
of credit," conveys to the mind the idea of
issuing paper intended to circulate through the community, for its ordinary purposes, as money; which paper is redeemiable ata future day: This is the sense
in which the terms have always been understood. [431]
The constitutlon considers'the emission of.bills
of credit, and the enactment of
lender laws as distinct operations; independent of each other; which may.be
separately performed. -Both are forbidden. To sustain the one, because it ii
not also the other; -to say that bills of credit may be emitted, if theybq not
made a tender in payment of debts; is, in effect,to expunge thatdistincteindependent prohibition, and to read the clause as if it hid been entirely omitted.
[434]
It has been long settled that a promise made in consideration bf An.fict which is
forbidden by the law, is void. It will not be questioned, that an act forbidden
by jhe constitution of the United States, which is the suprdme law, is against
aW.' [436]

WRIT of error to the supreme court-of the state of Missouri.In 1823, an action of trespass on the case was instituted
ifi. the circuit court for the county of Chariton,, in the state
of Missouri, by the state-of Missouri, against Hiram Craig
and others. The declaration sets forth the cause of action
in the following terms:
"For, that whereas, heretofore, on the 1st day of-August, in the year of our lord 1822, at .the county of Chariton,. aforesaid, the said Craig, John Moore, and Ephraim
Moore, made their certain pr6missory note in writing, bearing date the day Eind year aforesaid, and now to the couit
here shown, and thereby, and then and there, for value re.ceived, joiritly, and teverally, promised to pay to the state of
Missouri, on the 1st day of November 1822, at the loan office
in Chariton, the sum of one hundred-and ninetv-nine dollars

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

and ninety-nine cents, and the two per centum per annum,
the interest'accriting on the. certificates borrowed, from the.
]st day of October 1821. Nevertheless, thb said Hiram Craig,
John Moore, and Ephraim Moore, did not on the 1st day of
November, .or at any time before or since, pay to the state of
Missouri, at the loan office in Chariton, the said sum of one
hundred and ninety-nine dollars and ninety-nine cents, or the
two per centum per annum, theinterest accruing on the certificates borrowed, from.the 1st day of October 1821'; but the
same to pay, &c."
To this declaration the defendants pleaded the general
issue ; and neither party requiring a trial by jury, the case
was submitted to the court on the evidence dnd the arguments of counsel. The record contained the following entry
of the proceedings of the c6urt:
"And afterwards, at a court began and'held at Chariton,
on Monday the Ist day of November 1824, and. on the'second
day of said court, in' open court, the parties came into court
by their attorneysi and neither p.rty requiring a jury, the
cause is submitted to the court; therefore, all, and singular
the matter and things and evidences being seen and heard
by the court, it is found- by them; that the 'said defendants
did assume-upon themselves, in manner and form, as the
plaintiff4, by their. counsel, allege -and "the court also find
that the consideration for which the writing'declared upon,
and the-asmpsit was§-made, was for the loan- of loan
4ffide certificates, loane d- by the state'at'-her. loan office
'at Chariton'; which'"certificates were. issued,-and the loan
made 'in' the manner pointed out by an. act bf the legiSlature of the said state of Missouri., approved the 27th day
of June 1821, entitled, ' an act for the establishment of loan
offices, and the acts 4mendatory and supplementary thereto:'.
And'the court do further find that the plaintiff hath sus'taind damages by reason of the non-performance of the
assumptions and undertakings of them, the said defendints,
to the sum of two hundred' and thirty-seven dollars and
seventy-nine cents.' Therefore it is 'considered, &a."
'he 'defendantsin the circuit court of the rounty of Charitor appealed, in f825,to thb supreme colirt of the state of

JANUARY TERM "1830.

413

[Craig et al. vs, The State of Missouri.]

Missouri, the highest tribunal in that state; where the judgment of the circuit court was affirmed.
The defendants prosecuted this writ of error, under the
twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act of 1789.
The act 6f the legislature of Missouri, under which the
certificates were issued which forimed, the consideration, of
the note declared upon, was passed on the 27th of June
1821. It is entitled "an act for the establishment of loan
offices, &c." The provisions of the third, thirteenth, fifteenth,.
sixteenth, twenty-third and twenty-fourth sections of the act,
are all that have a connexion with the questions in*the case
which were before the court.
"Sec. 3. Bc itfurtherenacted, That the auditoi of public
accounts and treasurer, under the direction of the governor,
shall, and they are hereby required to issue certificates signed
b" the, said auditor and treasurer to the amount of two hpndred thousand dollars, of don6minations not exceeding-ton
dollars, nor less than fifty cents,.(to bear, such devices as
they may deem the most safe) in the following form, to wit:
This certificgte shall be receivable at the treasurt or any of
the loan qffices of the state of Missouri,in the dischargeof
taxes or debts du e to-the statefothesum of $ ,,with
interestfor the same, at the rate of two per centum per annum from this date, the
day.of
182
"Sc. 13. Be it further onacted, .That the certificates of
the said loan office shall be receivable at the treasury of the
state, and-by all tax gatherers and other public officers, in
paymenf of taxes or other 'moneys- now due, or to become
due to the state or any county'or town therein; and the said
certificates shall also be received by all officers civil and
military in the state, in discharge of salaries and fees of
office.
"See. 15. Be it further enacted, That th i commissioners
of the said loan offices shall have power to make loans of th e
said certificates to citizens of this state, residing within their
respective districts only; and in each district a proportion
.shall be loaned to the citizens of each conty thereifi, according to the number thereof, secured by mortgage or personal
security: Provided, That the sum loaned on mortgage shall

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

never exceed one half'the real unincumbered valde of the
estate so mortgaged: Provided also, That no loans shall
ever be made for a longer period than one year, nor. at a
greater interest than at the rate of six. per. cent per annum,
which interest shall be always payable in advance, nor shall
a loan.in any case be renewed, unless the- interest on such
re-loan be also paid in advance: Provided also, That the
commissioners aforesaid shall never make a call for the payment of any instalment at a greater rate than. ten per-centum
for every six months ; and that whenever any instalment to a
greater amount than at the rate of ten per centum per annum be required, at' least sixty days previous notice shall be
given to the person or persons thus required to pay : Atnd
Trovided dIso, That all and every person failing to make
payment shall be deprived in future of credit in such office,
and be liable to suit immediately, for the whole-amount by
him or them due.
'.' Sec. 16. Be it further enacted, That the saidcommissioners of each of the said offices are further authorised to
make loans on personal securities, by them deemed good and
sufficient, for sums less than two hundred dollars; which securities shall be jointly and severally bound for the payment.of
the amount -so loaned, with. interest therqon, under the regulations contained in" the preceding section 'of this act."
"Sec. 23. Be it further enacted, That the general assembly shall, as soon as may be, cause the salt springs and lands
ttached thereto given by congress to this state, to be leased
)ut, and it shall always be the fundamental condition in
iuch leases, that the lessee or lessees shall receive the certificates hereby required to be issued, in payment for salt,'at
a price not exceeding that which may. be prescribed by law;
and all the proceeds of the said .salt.springs, the interest accruing to the state; and all estates purchased by.officers of
the several offices, "under.the provisions of this act,. and all
thedebts now due, or hereafter to be due to this state, are
hereby pledged, and constituted a fund for the redemption
o. the certificates hereby required to be issued ; and the faith
of the state is hereby also p.edge 'for the same purpose.
"Sec. 24. Beitfurther enacted, That it shall be the.duty
of the auditor and treasurer to withdraw, anuallyfrom circu-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

lation one tenth part of the certificates which are hereby required to be issued, &c."
The case was argued by Mr Sheffey for the plaintiffs in
error; and by Mr Benton for the state of Missouri.
Mr Sheffey, for the plainfiffs in error, contended,
1. That the record shows a proper case for the jurisdiction of this court, within the provisions of the twenty-:fifth
section of the judiciary act of 1789.
2. That the act'of the legislature of Missouri, entitled
"an act for the establishment of loan 9ffices," is unconstitutional and void; beiing repugnant to the provision of the
constitution of the United States, which deilares that no
state shall emitbills 9f credit.
3. .That the state of Missouri has no right to yecover on
the promissory note which is-the foundation of this suit, because the consideration was illegal.
He argued, that this case comes fully within'the purpose,
spirit, and letter of the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary
act of 1789. The purpose of that section was, to place
within the revising, controlling, and correcting power of the
supreme court of the United States, any violations of the
constitution of the United States, or of tredties, by statelegislation. The harmony of the go#ernment, its equal operation,
the preservation of its fundamental principles, the peace of
the nation, rest securely upon the execution of this power
of the supreme court. While this power would be teautiously used; it would be fearlessly asserted and employed,
when' it was required of the court, and enjoined on the
judges. The government of the United States-was one for
the whole of "the people of the United States." It was
formed for "the people ;" and its solemn and impr'essive
preamble contains the declaration, that, "we, the people of
the United States, in order to form a more perfect union,"
"do ordain and establish this constitution of the UnitedStates."
To keep the constitution perfect, and preserve it as a
government for "the whole people,* the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary law of 1.789 was enacted. This law.

416

SUPREME COURT.
[Caig et al. vs. The State of 310souri.]

brought into exercise the constitutional powers Qf the court,
Iut itcreated, no new powers..
In *thecase of*Martin vs. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304,
330, this 'court have said, "the twenty-fifth seotion of the.
judiciary act of Sepiember 24,1799, is supported by the
letter and spirit of the constitution." And in the samexcase
'(p.-324)they say, " the constitution -of the United. States was
ordained and established," hot by the United States in their
sovereign capacities; but, as the preamble declares, "by the
people of the United States."
That a tribunal should exist, before which questions of a
constitutional character' may be brought, is not -denied by
any o.ne; and the constitution itselfhas provided that which
now entertains such questions, It has given to this court
the. pbweri -which they exercise; great, extensive, superior
'and responsible as they are; that this court may stand forth
as the guardians of the rights of the.people clairoed and declared in the constitution, and that those rights may b'e protecte.i-frorh en roachment and destruction. To this court
"the people".look for this protection ;.and when the inva4er
of their rights is a sovereign state, they have not the less eonfidence andl assurance, that the principles of the govern.n ent will be preserved. This court know no parties. to the
cases. which come b'fore them for decision. It is the prineiples which are'to govern their- decisions in those cases, to
which' the court look; and they leave, to those from, whom
their powers are- derived, to " the people of the United
States," to decide ;.not upon their rightful and constitutional
exercise of those p6wers; for to the constitution they are answerable only for their exercise; but whether they.shall continue so to Use them. The whole peopleof the-United States
have. given these powers : and they .only, by a majority ; and
not a *portion of them. less than this constitutional whole;
interrupt the exercise of any
can nullify those powers, ior
which are regularly applied under the constitution. The
constitution must be changed by the wholi people, before
the exercise of this power of revision can cease.
This court have never been willing to .employ its powers
of inquiring into the constitutionality of laws, but where the

JANUARY TERM 1830,
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

obligation was imperative, and the case was one clearly
within their duties. In the case of Fletcher vs. Peck, 6
Cranch, 128, the court declared, "the' question, w iether a
lati be void for its repuginhy to the constitution, is a
question which- ought seldom, if ever, to"bd decided in a
doubtful case. -The opposition between the cdnstitutiod and
the law should be such, that the judge feels a-clear and
strong cohvidtion of their incompatibility with each other."

To present the question inthe case now before the qourt,
no.plea was necessary; the defence arises under the general issue.
The record shows that this was a case; in the courts of'
the state of Missouri, in which the constitutionality of a law
of thai state was brought into question. The -cause of action is stated to be promissory notes given for certificates
issued under 'the act of the legislature of Missouri establishing loan offices; and the validity of these certificates must
have been the whole subject.of inquiry in the state coirts.
Their validity depended solely on the harmony of that act
with the federal compact; and the courts of Missouri cotild
only have affirmed their validity by affirming the act under
which they were issued to be constitutional and valid; .or
in other terms, not repugnant to the constitution of the United States.
This is not a new question. It has been frequently presented to this'couit; and has been uniformly decided according to the'views of the plaintiffs in error. Martin v.s. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 355. Miller vs. Nicholls, 4 Wheat.
311. Williams vs. Norris, 12 Wheat. 117. In Wilson vs.
The Black Bird Creek Marsh Company, . Peters, 251, the
court say:' "it is sufficient to bring the case within the provisions of the twenty,fifth section of the judicial act, if the
record shows that the constitution or a law.or a treaty has
been misconstrued, or the decision could not be made."
2. The certificates issued.by the state of Missouri, under
the law are "bills of credit;" and thus the law conflicts with
.the constitution of the United States. They are issued under'the authority of the state, and put. into circulation by
the state ; as the representative of rioney; as a.substitute
VOL. IV.-3 C

418

SUPRiEME COURT.
[Caig'et al.-vs. The' State of Missouh.]

for it;*to perform the functions of money, by becoming the
medium of circulation.
'The prohibition of the constitution is in these terms; and
every word in the clause is important .and emphatic : "No
stqte shall" "'coin monhy," 1"emit bills of 'credit," "make
any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of
debts."
What is the -formand mianing ofthese bills!. They purport to be receivableat the treasury, or any loan office of the
state, in discharge of taxes or debts due to the state. They
are issued of different denominations, from two hundred dollars, to fifty cents, payableto nO patticular person ; they'ar6,
by the twenty-third section'of the law,to b. reeeive.l for salt,
by the lesses of the property of .the state; by the 'officers
of the state, in discharge of their salaries and fees of office.
They pass, by delivery, with every characteristic of money.
It is only necessary to state these; the purposes of their issue;
the character and form of-the certificates; the'obligation imposed'on thecitizens of Missouri to receive them.; to establish
that they are "bills of credit ;" ",emitted" "by thestate" of
Missouri; or "coined" money: and that; not being" gold
or silver," they are "a tender in payment of debts."
The sufferings of the people 6f the United States from
the issues of paper money; or " bills-of credit," during the
're.olution, were yet in full'operation when the constitution
was formed, While, it might be dangerous to deny that
many of the means of the war were procured by the emission of that money; the exigencies of the country, strugling for existence, were the only safe apology for their use.
When the confederated states were about to become a nati'on, which should owe its prosperity to sound and just and
equal 'principles; the opportunity to reproduce the same
things, the same'wide and wasteful ruin by the acts
'state
"of anyof of
the members of the confederacy, Was at once
decisively and explicitly prohibited by 'those who formed
the constitution. But$ifit is contended, that'the certificates
issued by the state of Missouri were not "bills of credit,"
because- it islsaid-they are not declared by the act which
directs their emission to be "a legal tender ;" it is asserted,

JANUARY -TEAM 1830.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of lissouri.]

that if even they are not such, it is not essential to "a bill
of credit" that it shall have that incident. The Federalist,
No. 44. Many of the bills issued by the states during the
war were not made a legal tender; but they circulated widely,
and with equally disastrous consequences. 9 Virgin. Stat.
at large, 67, 147, 223,480, &c.
In relation to money as a circulating medium, the states
are one. All and each have one and the same interest in a
sound currency. These interests are a unit; not only from
the neighbourhood of the states to each other, the identity of
their interests, and their free and unrestrained intercourse;
but because the regulations of the constitution embrace the
whole subject of money as a circulating medium.
To the existence "of the government, certainly to its convenient fiscal operations, a uniform currency is important,
if not essential; and if the principles which may be fairly
drawn from a sound construction of the provision in the
constitution under examination, extend to bring into doubt
the legality of bank notes circulated as money, under the
charters granted to banks by'state laws; these, principles
may nof be the less true, or their importance of the less
magnitude.
3. If the certificates for which promissory notes were given
-are void, and the act of the legislaturp of Missouri on which
they are.founded was against the constitution of the United
States; the note upon which this action was brought in the
circuit court of Missouri was without consideration, and
void. The state cannot receive upon such notes.
Mr Benton for the defendant in error.
The state of Missouri has been "summoned" by a writ from
this court, under a "penalty," to be and appear before this
court. In the language of the writ, she is "commanded"
and "enjoined" to appear. Language of this kind does not
seem proper, when addressed to a sovereign state : nor are
the t~rms fitting, even if the only purpose of the process was
to obtain the appearance of the state. They impute "a fault"
in the state; they imply an omission,,or neglect by the state.

420

SUPREME COURT.'
[Craig et aL vs. The State of Missouri.]

The language of" commanding and enjoining" would only
be well employed if these had occurred.
The state of Missouri has done no act "which was not
within the full and -ample powers she possesses as a free,.
sovereigh, anc independent state. She has passed a law
which she considers in the proper and beneficial exercise .of
her legislative functions; and which had for.its object the
promotion of the interests of her c6tizens.
Mr Benton said, that he did not appear in this case for the
state of Missouri, as in ordinary cases depending in* this
court: not as the advocate of the state; for her acts did not
require the efforts of an advocate to vindicate them : lie appeared rather as a "corps of observation," to watch what
was going on.
The state had passed a law authorising the governor to
employ counsel, and he had been called upon to represent
the state. He had listened to what had been going on before the court; and he found a gentleman- from another
state,.imputing to Missouri adiact fraught with injustice and
immorality.
Such a course was not calculated to promote harmony,
of
and to secure a'continuance of the union. If, in. questions
state
sovefeign
this kind, or if in any cases, the character of a
shall be made the subject of such imputation; thig peaceful
of
tribunal would not be enabled .to procure the submission
rights
civil
about
the states to its jurisdiction; and contests
would be settled amid the din of arms, rather than in these
halls of national justice.
The act of the legislature of Missouri, "establishing
injury
"loan off[ces," had no purposes to accomplish by which
currency.
of
deficiency
The
could be sustained by any-one.
orin the state, and the expenses which attended'its new
authorised
and
proposed
ganization, made the arrangements
by the act convenient and beneficial to the citizens of the
state. The state, when it directed that the certificates
for
should be issued, made sufficient and certain provision
continuance
permanent
The
payment.
their redemption and
an
of the circulation of the' certificates was prohibited by
section
twenty-fourth
the
bill:
the
in
effective regulation

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. is. The State of Missouri.j

of the -law provided for .the gradual extinction of the certificates as they should come in ;'and power was given to the
governor, by the twenty-ninth section of the law, to negotiate a loan Qf ggld and silver for their redemption. Thus,
the certificates were issued upon ample means for their discharge; and their .discharge to "their full value must soon
take place..
These certificates were not made a legal tender. - They
are not directed to pass as "money :" and while there is
no obligation imposed by the law, that they shall be taken
by the citizens of the state3 it declares that the state shall
take them i. payment for taxes, for salt, and for fees of
office.
When examined, these certificates will be found to be
nothing more than eviden'ces of loans made to the state; and
for the payment of which she bas'given specific, and availa-,
ble-pledges.
It will not be contended that the states have'not power to
borrow money : and what other form of certificate of a loan,
than that which was adopted by the"state of Missouri, can
be devised, when this power is exercised. In every state of
the union loans have be~a negotiable ; and certificates of the
anount due by the state to.the individual lenders are issued.
The certificates which were the consideration of the not,
were therefore not.! bills of credit," in the constitutional
acceptation of such instrumepts.
An examination .of the lbgislation of the states in- which
such bills were issued, and - the pioceedinigs- under those
laws, will clearly show that the condition of things in the
view and recollection of the convention which formed theconstitution, was different, in eveiy essential feature, fiom
that which was created by the law of Missouri. "MassacAusetts, in 1690, issued biils of credit to pay taxes and other
debts due to the state treasury; but the soldiers, to whom
they were offered, would not receive them. I Hutchinson's
Hist. 402, 404.

In 1714 and 1716, other issues were made,

and they were directed to pass as money, and made a tender.
In 1749 the issuing of such bills was discodtinued.

During the revolution, the "bills of credit" which were

SUPREME COURT
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

isssued by the authority of' the states, and by that of congress, were in most cases made a-tender; and this was the
objectionable feature in them. So long as. no objection to
receive them is. imposed by the law which directs or authorises their emission, they can injure no one. Free to refuse
them, the citizen mayprotect himself from loss by their depreciation, by rejecting them.
The bills issued under the Missouri law have not this
vice. - That part of the law which obliges the officers of
the state to receive them for salaries and fees, is not before
the court. The notes in this suit were given voluntarily;
and thus, in reference to-the case of the plaintiffs in error,
it cannot be said that the certificate given for the note had
the character of "a legal tender."
In reference to the duty imposed on the lessees of the salt
springs owned by the state, it should be known to the court,
that when the "act- for the establishment of loan offices"
was passed, no leases had been given for those salt springs.
if it was tobe made a condition. of the lease' to which the
lessee would consent, that these certificates should be received for salt: it cannot therefore be said that any .obligation was imposed on him, of which he could complain.
While, therefore, in every aspect of this case', those who
consented -to take these certificates could .not be affected
to their injury by their depreciation, they might be benefited" by it; they'could pay them 'to the state for taxes,
for fees of'office, and for salt at their nominal or par value.
An examination of the proceedings of the convention
which .formed the constitution of the United States, will show
that the prohibition which is now supposed to operate on
the law of Missouri, was carried, by a majority of one vote.
Journal of the Convention, 302. It should not be presumed,
that this clause of the constitutior was intended 'to extend
t6 such issues as those authorised by the act of Missouri.
The language -of the constitution should be strictly construed ; as it is a limitation on the sovereignty of a state.
All bank notes issued under state charters are equally
within the constitutional prohibition, if the construction assumed by the counsel of the plaintiffs in error is correct.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Criig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

The "wolf scalp" certificates, by which the flocks and herds
of the west are protected from the devastations of those destructive and numerous animals ; the "crow certificates,"
the rewards of those who save the fields of the husbandman
from the spoils of their worst enemies ; are all receivable for
taxes ; and all are equally obnoxious to the exceptions taken
to the certificates issued under the law of Missouri.
The consideration for the note which is the subject of
this suit was -a good and valuable c6nsideration; and the
note is binding on the parties to it, by the express terms
of the sixteenth section of the law. The note furnished
the parties with the means of paying their taxes, and was
a benefit to them., All the certificates have been redeemed
by the state.
Congress is not authorised to issue bills of credit. The
states may do all that is not prohibited; while congress can
do nothing which is not granted by' the constitution. -Congress had no express authority to issue treasury notes, but
they were issued. These notes were precisely like the Missouri certificates.
The treasury notes were not bills of credit; for they were
not made,,by the act under which they were issued, a legal
tender. They were freely circulated throughout the United
States without objections; and, they were most useful instruments in the financial operations of the government, during
the last war.
This court has not jurisdiction of the case. It is not
within the requirements of the twenty-fifth section of the
judiciary act. The validity of the state law was not drawnin
question before the courts of Missouri; and no decision was
made in those courts upon the validity of the objection
now set up under the constitution of the United States.
'The pleadings do not show that the law was drawn in
question; they only deny the promise charged in the declaration. Upon the matteis thus presented, lind on no others,
did the courts of Missouri decide.
Mr Sheffey, in reply. The whole argument on th part
of the state of Missouriis founded on the assumptio that

SUPREME COURT.
tCraig et al. vs. The State of Missouij

the certificates are-not'bills of credit, because they are not
-

made a legal tender.

The provision of ther constitution wag introduced to prevent a mischief; one of the most fatal.effects on- the property of the citizens of the United States: and thus consi-'
dered, it is to be construed liberally. A strict construction,
and particularly one which would render it inoperative, or
feeble in its influence, Would not be justifiable.
The evils are the same;, and the notes-will circulate *as
freely and as extensively, whether they are made a tender
or not.. Whatever paper promise is circulated on the credit
of the state is a bill of credit; arid-is within the sense of the
constitution.
This provision in the constitutionwas introduced to prevent the states from resorting to state necessity as art apology
for the issue of paper, The states are not allowed to "€coin
money;" and the object clearly was, to prevent any thing
being made by the states which would serve as a circulating
medium.
The word "emit" is a peculiar expression. The states
may borrow money, and give notes; but that is not coining
money, nor is'it emitting-bills of credit;.and so " wolf and crow
scalp certificates" are only evidence-that-the counties in the
states which authorise them owe so much- money for meritorious and beneficial -services.
It is denied that the power of the Unitdd States to issue
bills of credit, is the same which has beeri claimed by the
state.of Misgouri under t-iis "la'. It-does not follow, that
because the United States may issue such bilil, the states
may do so. The states ar6 specially prohibited such issues
by the constitution.
The pr9position which was made inthe convention to gi.
to congress the power to issue bills of credit, may-have been
rejectedbecause that power had--been already given in the.
power to coin money, and regulate its value, Congress bas
this power, qs an incident : like the power to issue debentures; which is exercised as- an incident to the power to
regulate commerce.

JANUARY TERM 180.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court: Justices THomPsoN, JoHNS6N, and M'LEr dissenting.
This i§ a writ. of errorto a judgment rendered in the court
of last resort, in the state of Missouri ; affirming a judgment
obtained by the state in one of its inferior courts against Hiram Craig and others, on a promissory note.
•The, judgment is in these words: "' and afterwards at a
court," &c. "the parties came into coutt by their. attorneys, and, neither party desiring a jury, the cause is submitted to the court; therefore, all- and singular the malters and
things being seen and heard by the- court, it is found by
them, that the said.defendants did assume upon themselves,
in-manner and form, as the plaintiff by her counsel alleged.
And the court also'find, that the consideration for Which'the
writing declared upon and the assumpsit was made, Was- for
the loan of loan office certificates, looned by the state at her
loan office at Chariton; which certificates were issued, and the
loan made in the manner pointed out by an act of the legis.lature of the said state of Missouri, approved the q7th day
of Juige 1821, entitled an act for the establishment of loan
offices, and the acts amendatory and.supplementary thereto:
and the court do further find, that the plaintiff has Sustained
damages by reason of the non-performance of the assumptions and undertakings of them, the said defendants, to the
sum of two hundred and thirty-seven dollars and seventynine cents; and do assess her damages to that sum. Thereforeit is considered," &c;
The first-inquiry is into the jurisdiction df the cburt.
The twenty-fifth section of the judicial 'act declares, "that
a final judgment or decree in any suit in the -highest court
of law or equity of a state, in which a decision in'the suit
could be had, where is drawn in question"' the validity
of a statute of, or an authority exercised under any state, on
the ground of their being repugnant to the constitution,
treaties or laws of the -United States, and thie decision is in'
favour, of such their validity,' "may- be re-examined, and
reversed er affirmed iii the- supreme court of the United'
States."
To give urisdieticn to this court. it must appear in the
VoL. IV.-3 D

SUPREME COURT.

426.

ECiaig t al. vs. The. State of Missorf.].

record; 1. That -the validity of- a- statute.- 6f the.-state of
Missouri was drawn in qu'estion; on the ground.of its being
eepugnant to the constitution of the'United States. 12. Thit
'the decisibn was in favour ofts alidity.
1. To determine whether the validity~of a-statuite:of-the
-state was drawn in question, it ivill be .pi6per to.inspect the
pleadings in-lhe cqause, as well as the judgmefit of the court.
The decla'ration is on a pro-nissory note,-dated on the, 1st
day of August 1822, promising to payto the state of Missouri, on the .1st day of November 1822, at the loan office7 in
Chariton' the sum of one. hundr.ed and ninety-nipe .dollars
ninety-nine cents, and the two per cent: per annum, the in-.
tereft accruing on the certificates borrowed from the 1st of
Otobei- 1821. This note is obviously given for certificates
loaned under the act, "-for theestablishment of loan offices."
That. act directs that. loans on personal, securities shal"f be
made of sums less than two hundred.dollars. This notp is
for one hundred and ninety-riine dollars nin.ety-nine~c.ents.
The act-directs that 'the certificates issued by the state shall
carry two per cenf interest from the date, which interest shall
"be'calculated in the.amount of the loan.- The' note promises
to repay the sum, with-'ihe two per cent interest .accruingi
on the certificates borrowed,'from'the ist'day of October
'82I.. It cannot be doubted that the declaration. is on anote
giyen in pursuance of the act which,.has been mentioned."
Neither can it be doubted that the plea of-non ass~umpsit
allowed the'defendants to draw into. question it the-trial the
validity. of the consideration on which the note. was given.
Every thing which disaffirms the contract, every tli' g which
shows it to be void, may be 'given idfevidence on the general
issue in an action of assumpsit. The defendants, therefore,
•were at libertyto question thevalidity' of the consideration,
which was the foundation of the contract, and the constitutionality of the law in which it'originated.
-

Have they done so '1

•'Had the caiise beeri tried beforera .jury, the -regular course
v~ould have been-to move the court to 4instruct the jury:that
the act of assembly, in pursuance of which the note. was
-given, was repugnant.to the co'nstitution of the UnitedStates;
-

J-,NUARY 'TERM,1830.

427'

,[Crkig et al. vmThe State of MiaSourf.1

j dges, if'in "favbpr of
ind;toe*cbpt to'the .chaig6Af-the.
by
its varidity : -or a special verdict might -have-Been fudu
the:jury, stating ,the act .of. assetnbly,' t he.execution 6f thM
note in payment of- 'eitifietesc:lianed in pursuan.ce of. that
act I and referring, its-validity to tihecourt; ?.The one course
9r thb' other would .have shown--thht'the .validiik.of th, -acf
of assemhly -Vas drawn, into qtnestion;'ori--the 'ground "of its
repugnancy to the constitutlott; ,aid'ihat - the dbcisiot o-qf the
court was in favour .of -its.vaid,'y. BUt.- the one. coiire
or* the.oth'er, wotild have -required' both. a cQurt and-jury.Neither could be, pursued, where tli e , office df'tho. j ury'Was
-:c~s,
the. obvious sub-"
.performed by the court. , Im such'verdict, is
special
.a
jury,or
to
the
stitute tor an linstruction
in
6onlKtovery,,on
lQints
.a statement -by the. courtf of-*the.
which- its. judgnrient" is founded. "'This'may .not 'be the -usudl
mode of-proceediigi but it is an obvjous mode and if the
•court of;the. state has. adopted it, this'court cannot.'giv'e.qp
substance -fdr.form.
'The' arguments ofcounsel'oinnot be gpread on tie'recdrd.
Th'e.point -urged in.argument-cann6t appear/,. But th-Inotives stated by t'he •court'on the record for its judgplent,.nand
which form-a part, of the.pdgmentitself, hiustbe considered
"as exhibiting the pointo't6"which those. Argumnents were di6
rected, and 'the. j!Idgment.'a showing 'the-'deision of the
court upon.those-points. .Thre w s no-jury .t.,find the facts
and.'referi the lawto the court ; 'but if the cou;t, which w'as
susfiitautd,,for ' the jury, has found the facts on which its
judgment vas.jenderA I-,its finding.must be "'equivalent to.
the finding ofa jury. Has the court, then, substituting itself
fo" a juryo placid facts upon the reconrd, Which, connected
with te pleadings, show that the act 4n pursuance of which
this note was. executed whs- drawn into questibn% oi the
gr6und of itsrepugnancy to the constitution q
.. After finding slhat thedefendants did assume upon-themselvei,.&c. the court proceeds t fin4 ." that.the consideratio.for which the Writing declared upon and the. assumosit
was made, was the -loan of loan 6iMbe certificates loaned by
the state at her loan office at' Chariton ; which' certificates
were issued and the loan' made, in the manner pointed out

SUPREME- COURT.
[Craig et -a]vs. The State of IMssour.]

by an act of the legislature of the said state of Missouri, approveld the 27th of June 1821, entitledi &c.
Why did not the court stop immediately, after the'usual
finding that the 'defendants' assumed 'upon themselves q
Why proceed, to ind that' the note was given for loan office
certificates issued under the'act contended to be unconstitutional, and loaned in pursuance of that act ; if the matter
thus'found was-irrelevant to 'the question they W~ere to decide .
Suppose the statemefit made by the court to be c6ntained
in the verdict of ajury Which concluds with referring to the
court the validity 6f the note thius taken, in -pursuance of the
-act; would not such a'verdict -bring the constitutionality of
the act,'as. well as 'itq construction. directly before the
court . We think it would: such a verdict would- find that
the consideration of the note was loan office certificates, issued and l'oahed in the manner prescribed'by theF act., What
could be referred to the court by such a verdict; but .'the
obligation of the' -aw 4 It finds that the certificates for
which the note was given,-were issued in pursuance of' the
act;and that the contract was made in conformity with it.
Admit the "obligation of the act, and -the verdidt is for, the
plaintiff;' deny its obligation' and the verdict is'for the deferidant. On what grouind can its obligatibn' be contested,
but its repughancy to the constitution of the United States 1
No other is suggested. At any rate, it is open to that objection. If it be in trtth repugnant to th" constittition 'of
the United States, that repugnancy' might "htive been urged
in the state, and. may consequently be urged in this court;
since it is presented by the facts in the record' which were
found bythe court that tried the 'eaue.
It is'impossible to doubt that, in point of fact, the cnsti-'
tutionality of the at, ufnder Which the certificates were issued
that formed the consideration of this note, constituted the
only real question made by the parties, and the only real
question decided by the court. But the' record is to be inspected with judicial. eyes ; and, as it does not state in express terms that this point was made, it has been contended
that this court cannot assume the fact that it was made or
determined in the tribunal of the state.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. s.

429

esfatp ofMissouri.]

The record shows distinttly that this. point Wisted, and
that -no -other did exist; -the special itatement-of facts made
by -the court As -exhibiting.iho fouhdation of its -judgment
containste is point and no other. The record shows. clearly
that the' caisedid depend, and mntist depend, on ,this-point
alone. * If in such a case, the mere omission of 'thd court of
Missouri, to say, in terms, that th at Qf the legislature was
constitutionali withdraws- that point from- the cauge, or must
close the judicial eyes of the appellate tribunal-upon it'; no.thing can-be more obvious, than that theprovisions 'bf the
constitution, and of anact of congress, may be-ilways.eva-•
-d~d; and may be often, -,as we think they would .be in this
case, unintentiohajlydefeated.
But this question has frequently occurred ; and. has, ,e
think,, een frequently deaidedifin this court. Siaith-d..'The
State f Maryland, 6, Cranch,. 286 .Martin tis. Hunter's
Lessee, 1 Wheat. 355e Miller va. Nicholls, 4 Wheat. 3iI.
Williams vs. Norri, 12.Wheat.'117.- Wilson andVthors
v8. The Black Bird Crbek Marsh Cbmpany, 2 Peters, !45,
and Harris vs Deaifie il this term;, are -all, We think,. xpressly in point. 'There has been perfect uniformity. ia the
-

constyuction given by this court to the- twentyfifth seotin
of the judi.iar act. Thatco nsruction is,- that it is -not;ndcessary to statd, in terms, om the-rbcord, that the constitution,.
or a treaty or law of the United States has been drawn in
question, or the validity-of a state Jaw,.on thie, ground ofits"
repugnancy to the cofistitutin.- It is sufficient if the record
treaty-or-1w of the Uniied
shows that theconstitutin; or-a
States fishave been-cohstrued, or that-the constitutionality
of w state law must have- been questioned; and:the decision
fias been in favour of-the -party.claiming under such law.
We thifik, then, that the.facts stated on the record presented the question of r~pugnancy between the constitution
of the United States and the -act df Missouri to the court
for its decision. If it was presbnted, we are to inquire,
2: Was the decision of the court in favour of its validity 9
The judgment in favour of - the plaintiff is a decision in
favour of-the validity of the .contract, and consequently of

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et al. =s. The State of Missouri.]

the validity. of the law-by the- authority of which the contract
was made.
The case is, we think, within the twenty-fifth section of
the judicial act, and consequently within the jurisdiction of
this court;
This brings us to the great question in the cause : Is the
act of the legislature of Missouri repugnant to the constitution of the United States

-

'.

The counsel for-the plaintiffs§ in error maintain, that it. is
repugnant to the constitution, because its object is the emission- of bills- of credit contrary to the express prohibitibn
contained in-the tefith section of the-first article.
The act under the authority of which the certificates loaned
to. the plaintiffs in error'were issued, was passed on the 26th
of June 1821, and is entitled "an act for the establishment
ot loan offices." The 'provisions that are material to the
.present inquiry,.are, comprehended in the third, thirteenth,
fifteenth,, sixteenth, twentyth!-"ct and twenty-fourth sections
of the act which are in these .words:.
Section the third .enacts "that the - auditor of public
accounts and treasuref, under the direction of the governor,
shall,- and. they, are ;hereby- required to issue certificates,
signd by the sajd' auditor and *treasurer, to the .amount of
-. two hundred t housand doltars,'of denoninations not exceeding ten dollars;.nor less 1han fifty cents (to bear such deviceds
as'they.may deem the most.safe), in the following form, to wit:
"This ceitificate, shall -be receivable at the treasury, or any
of the loan offices.of the state of Missouri, in the discharge
of taxes,;opul'bts due to, the state, for the sum of $
-with ihteresi for the same, at the rate' of'two per.cdntum per
182, ."
day of'--annum from this ate, the;
The thirteenth Section' declares:" that the certificates of
the said loan-office shall, le receivable at the treasury.of the.
sta-te, ajd by aill tax t gatherers and other"public offico, sir
payment of taies or -other moneys now due .to: the state or to
any countyor t6wn thdrein,- and the said certificates shall
also be received, by- all officera civil and military in the state,
in the discharge.of salaries and fees of office."
The fifteenth sectidn provides: "that the commission-

JANUARY TERM- 1830.
[Craig et a]. vs. The State of Missouri.]

ers of the said loan offices shall have pbwer to make loans
of the said certificates,. to citizens of this state, residin'
within their respective districts only, and in each district a
proportion shall be loaned to .the citizens of each county
therein, according to the number thereof," &c.
Section sixteenth. "That the said commissioners of.
each of the said offices are further authorised to make loans
on personal securities by them deemed good and sufficient,
for sums less than two hundred dollars; wh ich securities
shall be jointly and severally bound for the payment of the
amount so loaned, with interest thereon," &c.
Section twenty-third. "That thegeneral assembly shall,
as soon as-may be, cause the salt springs and lands attached
thereto, given by congress to this state, to be. leased out,
and it shall always be the fandamentrdl condition in such
leases, that the lessee .or lessees shall receive the certificates hereby -required to be issued, in payment for. salt,
at a price not exceeding that which may be prescribed by
law - and all the proceeds of the said salt springs, the interest accruing to the state, and all estates purchased by officers 'of the said several offices under the provisions of this
act, and all the debts now due or hereafter to be due'to this
state ;.are hereby pledged and constituted a fund for the redemption of the certificates hereby required to be issued,
and the faith of the state is hereby also pledged for the -same
purpose."
Section twenty-fourth. "That it shall be the duty of
the said auditor and treasurer to withdrav annually from
circulation, one-tenth part of the certificates which are hereby required to be issued," &c.
' The clause in the constitution which this act is supposed
to violate is in these words "No state shall" " emit bills
of credit."
What is a bill of credit ! What did the 'constitution mean
to forbid q
In its enlarged, and perhaps its literal sense, the term
"bill of credit" may comprehend any instrument by which
a state engages to pay money at a future day ; thus including a certificate given for money borrowed. But. the ]an-

4f32

Sup#gftt COUIRT,
[Praig et al. vs. n'e Stateof MIuouTi:]

guage .ofth zobistitufidn itself, and the mischief td be .pe,
vented,- which we know4frdm. the history, of gur country,
equjfy limit the interpretation of 'the' terms. The word
"evit," is never employed-in describing .tho.secohtracfs by
which.a state binds itself to paymoney at a. future day for.
services actuially.receihed, or.fofr m oney..borrow.ed fox present use;, nor are instruments exeibuted 'fbr such purpoges,
in common Ozguage, 'denointte,d'." bills of rredit."- To
"omit.bills of ereditf"conveys to the mind the idea of ,isSuing..piper intended- to circulate through the community
for its ordinary-purposes, as money, Which paper isredeemable at a future day. .Thiisis the rene-in wvhich the ,terms
-have beeh always -undert6odAt-a very ealy'peiod of6ur.-colniial history, the attempl
to supply.the..want of the. preci0 is metals by a paper me
did vWasmzde to a.considerable extent ; and the bills emitedffor this purpose have ,been freq uently denorminated hills
of credit. Dgiing the war, of our revoutii, we'wero driven
to tbepedient;'- and necssfty.compIled us to '.use it to
a mo~t fearfl, extent., The term. has. acqtuired an* Eppropriate meaninig ; and "bills of credit' signify a paper me-.
dium, intended to circulate between indiyiduals', and between
government and individuals, for the- pidinary'purposes of
society. Such a medium hes been always liahle -toconsiLderalefluctuation. iti value 'is continually changing; ahd
these changeis,'often great and -suddbn, expose individuals to.
immense loss,-ere -the' sources of ruinous speculations, -and
destroy all'confidence between man and man. To cut. up
thiq mischief by-the roots, a-mischief which was felt through
the United. Stutes, and which deeply affected the' interest
and 'prosperity of all,; the people declared in. their constitution -thatno state-shbuld ,emit bills of 'credit. If-thb pro.hibition means any thing, if the words are not empty sounds,
it must, comprehbnd the emission of any paper medium, by a
state gpvernment, -for the purpose of common circulatiori.
What is the character of the certificates issued by author-"
ity of 'the act under consideration 1' What office are'they
to lierform 1 ' Certificates signed .bythe-auditor and treasurer of the state, are to be issued by those officers to the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
-Craig et al. vs. The State of MissourL]

amount of two hundred thousand dollars, of denominations
not exceeding ten dollars, nor less than fifty cents. The
pdper purports on its face to be receivable at the treasury,
or at any loan office of the state of Missouri, in. discharge of
-taxes or debts-due to the state.
The law-makes them receivable- indischarge of all taxes,
or debts due to the state, or any county or town therein.; and
of all salaries and fees of offiee, to all officers civil and military within the state; 'and for salt sold by'the lessees of the
public salt works. It also pledges the faith and funds of
the state for their redemption.
It seems impossible to doubt the intention of the legisluture in passing this act, or to mistake the character of these
certificates, or the office they were to perform. The de:
nominations of the bills, from ten dollars to fifty- cents,
fitted them for the purpose of ordinary circulation; and
their reception in payinent of taxes, and debts to the government and to corporations, and.of salaries and fees, would
give them currency. They were to be put into circulation;
that is, emitted, by the governmeqt. In addition to all these
evidences of an intention to make these certificates the ordinary circulating medium of the country, the law speaks
of them in this character; and directs the auditor and treasurer to withdraw annually one-tenth of them from circulation. Had they been- termed "bills of credit," instead of
"certificates," nothing would have been wanting to bring
them within the prohibitory words of the constitution.
And can this make any real difference q Is the proposition to be maintained, that the constitution meant to prohibie names and not things . That a very important act,
big with great and ruinous mischief, which is expressly forbidden by words most appropriate for its descriptioh; may
be performed by the substitution of a name q That the constitution, in one of its .most important provisions, may be
*openly evaded b' giving a now name lo an old thing q We
cannot think so. We think the certificates emitted under
the authority of this act, are as entirely bills of credit, as if
tihey had been so denominated in the act itself.
But it is contended, that though these certificates should be
VOL. IV.-3 E

434

SUP tbME .COURT.
[Craig et a]. 8.'The State of Afiswuri.]

deemed bills~of credit, accordingto the common acceptation
of the term, they are not so in the sense of the constitution;
because theyare not made a legal tender..
The constitution .itslf furnishes no countenance to this
distinction. The prohibition 'is general. It extends to all
bills of cre.dit, not to bills of a particular description. That,
tribunal must be bold indeed; which, without the aid of other
t
explanatory words, c'ould venture on this constructi'n.
is .the ldss admissible in this case, bedause the same clause
ofthe constitution contains a substantive prohibition-to the
enactment of tender laws. The ronstitution, therefore, considers the emission of bills of ciedit, and the enactinent ,of
tender laws, as.distinct operations, independent ofeach-other,
which may be. sepdrately performed. Both are forbidden.
To sustain the one, because it is not also the other;' to say
that bills of credit may be emitted, if they be not made a
tender in payment of debts; is, in effect, to expunge that dis-tinot independent prohibition, and to read the clause as if it
had been entirely mitted. We are not at liberty to do this.
The history .of paper money has been referred to, for the
purpose of showing that its great mischief consists in being
made a-tender ; and that therefore the general words of the
constitution may be restrained to a particulax intent.
Was it even true, that the evils of paper money resulted
solely from the quality of its being made a tender, this court
would not feel itself authorised'to disregard the plain meaning of, words, in search of a. conjectural intent to which we
are not conducted by the language of any part o.f the instru•ment. 'But we do not think that the history of our country
proves either, that being made a tender in payment of debts,
is an essential quality of bills of credit,-or the only mischief
resulting from them. It may, indeed, be the most pernicious; but that.will not authorise a court to convert a general into a particular prohibition.
We learn from Hutchinson's History ot Massachusetts,
vol. 1, p. 402, that bills of credit were emitted for the first
time in that colony in 1690.. An army returning unexpectedly' from an expedition against Canada, which had proved
as disastrous as the plan was magnificent, found the govern-

-

I

•

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig ef al. ts. The.State of Missouri.)

meat totally unprepared to meet their claims. Bills of credit
were resofted to,'for relief from this embarrassment.. They
do not ulpear " to have been made a tender; but they were
not on that account the less bills of -credit, nor were they
absolutely-harmless. The emission, however, not being considerable, and the bills being soon redeemed, the experiment
would have been productive of not much mischief, had it not
been followed - by repeated emissions to a much larger
amount. The subsequent history of Massachusetts abounds
with proofs of the -evils with which paper money is fraught,
.whether it be or be not a legal tender.
Paper money was also issued in other colonies, both in
the north and south; and whether made a tender or not, was
productive ofevils in proportion to the qdantity emitted. In
the war which. commenced in America in '1755, Virginia
issued paper money at several successive sessions, under the
appellation- of treasury notes. This was made a lender.
Emissions were' afterwards made, in 1769, in 1771, and in
1773. These were not made a tender; but they circulated
together; were equally bills of credit; and were productive
.of the same eftects. In 1775 -a considerable emission was
made for .the purposes of the war. . The bills were declared
to be current, but'were not made a tender. 'In 1776, an
additional emission was made, and the bills were declared
to be a teder. The bills of.1775 and 1776 circulatetd together; were equally bills 6f-credit; and weie productive of
the same consequences..
Congress emitted bills ofcredit to a large amount; and did
not, perhaps could not, make them a legal tender. This
power resided in the states. In May 1777, the legislaiure of
Virginia' passed an act fof the first time making the bills of
credit issued under the authority of congress a tender so,far
as to extinguish interest. It was not until March 1781 that
Virginia passed an act making all the bills of credit which
had been emitted by congress, and all which had been emitted by the state, a legal tender in payment of debts. Yet
they were in every sense of the word bills of credit, previous
to that time; and were productive of all the Consequences of
paper money. We cannot then assent to the proposition.

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

that the history of our country furnishes any just argument
in favour of that restricted construction of the constitution,
for which the.counsel for the defendant in error contends.
The certificates for which this note was given, being in
truth " bills of credit' in the sense of the constitution, we
.are brought to the inquiry :
Is the note valid of which they form the consideration.
It has been long settled, that a promise made in consideration of an act which is forbidden by law is void. ' It will
not be questioned, that an act forbidden by the constitution
of the United States, which is the supreme law, is against
law. Now the constitution forbids a state to "emit bills of
credit." The loan of these certificates is the very act which
is forbidden. It is not the making of them while they lie in
the loan offices; but the issuing of them, the putting them
into circulation, which is tie act of emission ; the act that is
forbidden by the constitution. The consideration of this
note is the emission of bills of credit by the state. The very
act-which constitutes the consideration, is the act of emitting
bills of credit, in the.modeprescribed by the law of Missouri;
which act is prohibited by the constitution of the United
States.
Cases which we cannot distinguish from this in principle,
have been decided in state courts of great respectability ;
and in this'court. In the case of the Springfield*Bank vs.
Merrick et al. f4 Mass. Rep. 322, a note was made payable
in certain bills, the loaning or negotiating of which. was
prohibited by statute, inflicting a penalty for' its -violation.
The note was held to be void. Had this. note been made in
consideration of these bills, instead of being made payable
in them, it would not have been* less repugnant to the statute; and would consequently have been equally void.
In Hunt vs. Knickerbocker, 5 Johns. Rep.327, it was decided that an agreement for the sale of tickets in a lottery,
not authorised by the legislature of the state, although instituted under the authority of the government of another.
state, is contrary to the spirit and policy of the law, and void.
The consideration on which the agreement was founded
being illegal, the agreement was void. The books, botlf of.

JANUARY TERM.1830.

437

[Craig et al.
ws.The State of Missouri.1

Massachusetts and New York, abound with cases-to the same
effect. They turn upon.the questibn whether the particular
case is within the principle, not on the principle itself. -It
has never beefi doubted, that a note given on a consideraiion
which is prohibited by law, is void. Had the issuing or circulation bf certificates of this or of any other description
been prohibited by. a stai~te of Missouri, could-) a suit have
been sustained in the courts of that state, on a note given in
consideration of the prohibited certificates . If it could not,
are the prohibitiofis of the constitution to be heId less sacred
than those of a state lawq
It had been determined, independently of the acts of congress on that subject., that sailing under the license of an
enemy is illegal. Patton v8. Nicholson, 3 Wheat. 204, was
a suit brought in one of the courts of this district on a note
given.by Nicholson to Patton, both citizens of the United
States, for a British license. The United States were then.
at war with Great Britain; but the license was procured
without any intercourse with the enemy. The judgment of
the circuit court was in favour of the defendant ; and the
plaintiff sued out a writ of error. The counsel for the defendan t in error was stopped, the court declaring that the
use of a license from the enemy being unlawful, one citizen
had no right to purchase from or sell to another such a license, to be used on board an American vessel. The consideration for which the note was given being unlawful, it
followed of course that the note was void.
A majority of the court feels constrained to say that the
consideration on which the note in this case was given, is
against the highest law of the-land, and that the note itself
is utterly void. In rendering judgment for the plaintiff, the
court for the state of Missouri decided in favour of the validity of a law which is repugnant to the constitution of the
United States.
In the argument, we have been reminded by one side of
the dignity of a sovereign state ; of the humiliation of her
submitting herself to this tribunal ; of the dangers which may
result from inflicting'a wound-on that dignity: by the other,
of the still superior dignity of the people of the United States;

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et a]. vs. The State of Missouri.]

who have spoken their will, in terms which we cannot misunderstand.
To these admonitions, we can only answer: that if the
exercise of that jurisdiction which has been imposed upon
us by the constitution and laws of the-United States, shall
be calculated to bring on those dangers which have been
indicated: or if it shall be indispensable to the preservation of the union, and consequently of the independence
and liberty of these states: these are considerations which
address themselves to those departments which may with
perfect propriety be influenced by them. This department
can listen only to the mandates of law; and can tread only
that path which is marked out by duty.
The judgment of the supreme court of 'the state of Missouri for the first judicial district is reversed; and the cause
remanded, with directions to enter judgment for the defendants.
Mr Justice JonNsoN.

This. is a case of a new impression, and intrinsic difficulty ; and brings up questions of the most vital importance
to the interests of this union.
The declaration is in the ordinary form ; and the part
of the record of the state court, which raises'the questions
before us, is expressed in these words : " at a court, &c.
came the parties, &c. and neither party requiring a jury, the
cause is submitted to the court; therefore, all and singular,
the matters and things, and evidences, being seen and heard
by the court, it isfound by them that thesaid defendants did
assume upon themselves in the manner and form as the plaintiffs by their counsel allege ; anid the court also find that
the consideration for which the writing declared upon, and
the assumpsit was made, was for the loan of loan office certificates, loaned by the state at her loan office at Chariton ;
which .certificates' were, issued and the loan made in the
manner pointed out by an act, of the legislature of Missouri;
approved, &c. And the court do further find that the plaintiff
hath sustained damages by reason of the non-performance of
the assumptions and undertakings aforesaid, of them the said

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Misgouri.J

defendants, to the sum, "&c.; and therefore it is considered
that the plaintiff recover," &c.
In order to understand the case, it may be proper to premise, that the territory now occupied by the state of Missouri having been subject to the Spanish government, was
at the time of its cession governed by the- civil law as modified by the Spanish government; that it so continued; subject to certain modifications introduced by act of congress,
until it became a state; whdn the people incorporated into
their institutions as much-of the civil law as they thought
proper: and hence, their courts of justice now partake of a
mixed character, perhaps combining all the advantages ot
the civil and common law forms. By one of the provisions
of this law the trial by jury is forced upon no one; is yet open
to all; and when not demanded, the court acts the double
part of jury and judge.
It is obvious, therefore, that the matter certified from the.
record of the state court before recited, is in nature of a
special verdict, and ihe judgment of the court is upon that
verdict: and in this light it shall be examined.
The purport of the finding is that the vote declared upon
was given "for a loan of loan office certificates, loaned by
the state under certain stat& acts, the caption of which is
given."
-Some doubts were thrown out in the argument, whether
we could take notice of. the state laws thus found, without
being set out at length: but in this there can be no question; whatever laws that court would take notice of, we
must of necessity receive and consider, as if fully set out.
By the acts of the state designated by the court in their
finding, the officers of the treasury department of the state
were authorised to create certificatds of small denominations,
from ten dollars down to fifty cents, bearing interest at two
per ceptum per annum, and to loan these certificates to in-dividuals ; taking in lieu thereof promissory notes, payable
not exceeding one year from the date, with not more than
six per cent interest, and redeemable'by instalments not exceeding ten per cent every six months, giving mortgages of
ldnded property for security.

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

These certificates were in. this form: "this certificate
shall be receivable at the treasury, or any of the loan offices of the'state of Missouri, in- the discharge' of taxes or
debts due the state, for the'sum of $-j

with interest for

the same, at the rate of two per centum per annum from this
date, the

-

-day of

-

182 ;" which form is se*

out in, and prescribed by the act designated in the finding
of the court.
This writ of error is sued out under the twenty-fifth-seetion of the judiciary act; upon the supposition that the state
act is in violation of that provision in the constitution which
prohibits the states from emitting bills of credit; and that the
note declared on is void, as having been taken for an illegal
consideration, or without consideration.
As a preliminary question, it has been argued, 'that the
case is not. within -the provisions of the twenty-fifth section;
because it does not appear frdm any thing on the record,
that this ground of defence was specially setup in~the courts
of the state. But this we consider no longer an open question ; it.
has repeatedly been decided by this court, that if a
special Verdict or the instruction of a. court involve such
facts as that the judgmenit must necessarily affirm the vali.dity of the state law, or invalidity of a right set up under
the laws or constitution of the United States,; the case is sufficiently brought within the provisions of the. twenty-fifth
section.
The judgment of the court in, this case'affirms the validity
of-the contract on which the -suit is instituted. And this
could not have been affirmed, unless on the assumption that
the act in which it had its origin was constitutional.
In the argument of counsel the objections to this conftract
were presented in the form of objections to the consideration. But this was unnecessary to his argument; since even
a valuable consideration will not make g9od h contract in
itself-illegal. - These notes originate directly Under "the law,
of Missouri; they are taken in pursuance of its provisions;
have their origin in it; and rest for their validity upon it:
and if that law be void must fall with it. Whether, therefore,
-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

the bills for which they were given be void or valid, if "the
law be void, the notes would be so.
There are some difficulties on the subject of consideration,
for hich. I would reserve myself until they bec=,me unavoidable. But it is not one of those difficulties that, as a guide
for the state, the power-of the states over the law of contracts.
will legalize a contract made, under whatever law, or for
whatev;ei consideration. That argument makes the act tb
justify itself; and is a -direct recurrence to that exercise of
sovereign power which it was the leading principle of the
constitution that each should renounce, so far as it was incompatible with- the prov.isions of the constitution; the- objects of which'were the security of individual right, and the
perpetuation' of the union.
The instrument is a dead letter, unless its effect be to invalidate every act done-by the states in violation of the constitution of the United States. And as the universal modus.
operandi by free states must be through their legislature, it
follows, that the laws under which any act is done, importinga violation of the constitution, must be a dead -etter. The
language ofthe constitution is,." no state shall emit bills of
credit ;",.and this, if it means any thing, must-mean that no
state shall pass a la6w which has for its object an emission of
bills of'credit.
It follows, that when the officers of a state undertake to
act upon such a law,'they act without authority; and thate
the contracts entered into, direct or incidental to such their
illegal proceedings, are mere fiullities.
This leads us to the main question: "Was this an.emission of bills of credit in the sense of the coistitution.' And
here the' difficulty which presents itself is t6 determine
whether it was a loan or an emission of paper money; or,
perhaps, whether it was not an emission of -paper money,under the disguise of a loan. There cannot be a doubt that
thisi latter view of the subject must always. be examined; for.
thqt which it is not permitted to do directly,.cannot be legal-"
ized by any change of.names or forms. Acts done ""infraudemlegis," are.acts in violation of law.
The great difficulty, as it is here,, must ever be to deterVOL. IV.-3 F

442

STPREME COURT.
[Craig ef al. vs. The, State of Missouri.]

mine, n:each case,- whether it be 'a:loan,-or an emission ot
bills of credit. .That the states hdve an .unlimited power to

effect the one, and are divested of power to do the other,
are propositions equally unjuestionable; "but where to'draw
the discrirninating line is the great difficulty. I fear it is
an 'insdperable 'difficulty.
The terms, '1bills of credit," are lii themselves vague and
"gener'al, .and,at the present day, almost dismissed from our.
language, It is then only by resorting to the nonienclatutie
'of the day of the constitttion, that we can hope to get. at the
idea which the- framers .of the constituiion attached to it.
Theo quotation from Huthinson's History of Massachusetts,
therefore, was a proper one for this purpos'e; inasinuch-as
the sense in which a word is .used, by a distinguished historian,
and a man in public life in our own country, not Iong'before
the revolution, furnishes. a satisfactory criterion, for a definition.- It is there used as synonymous with paper money;. and
we will find it distinctly used in the same sense by the first
congress which met under. the present constitution.
The whole history and, legislation of the' time prove that,
by bills of 6redit, the"framers of the ronstitution meant'.-paper money, with reference to ihat which hid been"'used.iri
the states'from the commencenienf of the bentury, down to
the time when it ceased to pass, before- reduced to its innate worthlessness.
'It was contendedin argument, for the defendant in.error,
that it was essential to the description of 'bills of credit in
the 4ense' of the constitution,: that tliey should be xhade: a
lawful tender. But his own quotations negative that idea;
and the cons.titution does the same, iti
'the general prohibition in the states' to make- any thing. but'gold or silver a legal tender. If, however, it were otherwisq; it,'would hardly
avail him here, since these certificates were, as to 'their.officers',salaries, declared a legal tender.
The gieat end and object of this restriction on the power
of .tlie states, will furnish, the best deiinition of the "terms
under consideration. The whole was .intended to exclude
every thing from use, as .a circulating m edium,-except gold
and silver; and to give to the United States the exclusive
-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

control over the coining and valuing of the metallic medium.
That the real dollar may represent property, and'not the
shadow of it.
'Now, if, a state were to pass a law declaring that this representative of money shall be is'sued by its officers, this
would be a palpable and -tangible case ; and we could not
hesitate to declare such a law, and every contract entered
into on the issue of such- paper, purporting a piomise to
return the sum borrowed, ,to be a mere nullity. 9ut suppose a state enacts a law authorising her officers to borrow
a hundred thousand dollars, and to give in lieu thereof certificates-of one hundred dollars 'each, expressing an aoknowledgement ofthe debt; it is presumed there could be no objection to this. Then suppose that the next year she authorises
these certificates to be broken up into ten, five, and even
one dollar bills. Where can be tbe'objection to this!. And-if
at the institdtion of the loan, the individual had given for the
script his note at twelve months, insted of paying'thecash; it
would be but doing in another form what was here done in
Missouri; and what is oftpn done, in principle, where the loan
is not required to be paid' immediately in cash.
Pursuing the scrutiny farther, and with a view to bringing it
as close home to the present case as possible :,
a state havifig
exhausted its treasury,;proposeslto anticipate its taxes for one,_
two or three years ; its citizens, or others, being willing to
-aid it, give their notes payable 'at sixty days, and receive the
script of the state at a premium, for the advance of'their
credit, which enables the state, by discounting thesenotes,
to realise .the-cash. There couldJbe no objection to this'
negotiation; and their script being by-contract to be receivable in taxes, nothiig would be more natural than to break
it up into small parcels in.
order to adapt it to the payment
of taxes. And if in this state it should be thrown into circulation, bypassing into the hands of those Who would want
it to. meet their, taxes, I see nothing in this that could
amount to a. violation" of the constitution, Thus far the
transaction partakes of the distinctive 'features of a loan
and yet it cannot be denied that its adaptation to the payment of taxes does give it one characteristic of a circulating

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig etal. -vs.The State of Missouri.]

medium. And another point of similitude, if not of identity,
is -the provision -for forcing the receipt of it upon those to
whom the state had incurred the obligation to pay.money.
-The result is, that these certificates are of a truly amphibious character; but what then should be the course of this
court! 'My conclusion is. that, as it is a doubtful case, for
that reason we are bound to pronounce it innocent. It d6e
indeed approaca as near to a violation of the constitution
as it can well-go, without violating its prohibition; but it is
in-the exercise of an unquestionable right, although in rather
a questionable form; and Iam bound to believe that it was
done in good-faith, until the contrary shall more clearly appear.
Believing it tken a candid.exercise of the power of borrowing, I f6ed myself at-liberty to go firther, and briefly to
suggest two points, on which thiese bills vary from the distinctive features of the paper money of the revolution;
1. On the face of them they bear an interest, and for
that reason vary in -alue every moment of their existence :.
this disqualifies them for the uses and purposes of a circu- lating medium; which the universal consent of mankind declares should be of an. piifodrm and unchanging value, otherwise it must be the subject of exchange, and not the medium.
2.' All the paper medium of-the revolution consisted of
promises to pay. This is a promise to receive,.and to rdceive in 'payment .of debts and taxes due -the state. This
is nbt an immaterial'distinction ; for the objection to a mere
-that its- value depends uponrmere national
paper medium is,
has a better dependence; the pubcertainly
faith., But this
it may tepder it in-payment; and
purchases
who.
lie, debtor
against him, the constitution
recover
to
brought
upon a suit
he may have rer-ourse.
which
to
provision
contains -arother
l
he would
courtlextend,
this
of
powers
e
feeb
tha
as
As far
be secured.(if h7could ever need security) from a violation
of his contracts. This-approximates them to-bills on a'fund;
and a fund not to be withdrawn by a law of the state.
Upon the whole,.I ambf opinion that.the judgment.of the
state court-should be affirmed.

JANUARY TERM 1830."
[Craig eta]. vs. The State of Missouri.]

MrJustice THomPsoN.
This case comes up by writ of error, from the state court
of Missouri, on a judgment recovered against the plaintiffs
in error, in the Aighest court in that state ; and the first
question thut has been made here,.is, whether this court has
jurisdiction of the case, under the twenty~fifth section of the
judiciary act of 1789.
If the construction of this twenty-fifth section was now
for the first time brought before this court; I should entertain very serious doubts whether this case came ,within it.
The fair, and as I think the clear import of that section is,
that some one of the cases therein stated,' did, in point of
fact, arise, and was drawn into question ; and did-receive- the
judgment and decisioni of the state dourt. It is not enough,.
that such question* might have been made, A~party may
waive the right secured to. him. under this section. This
would not in any .manneraffect the jurisdiction of the state
court; and might of course be waived. In the present.case,
there is no doubt but the facts which appeared before the
state.court presented.a case which-might properly fall vithin this section. The defendants might Jiave insisted that
the state law was unconstitutional, and that the certifica'es
issued in pursuance of its provisions were void., And if the
court had sustained the act, it wo.ld have been one of the.
casep within the twenty-fifth section. But the cohrt was not
bound to cll upon the party to raise the objection, for the
purpose of putting the cause in a situation to be brou'ght
here by wr't of'error. It cannot be doubted, but that:there
might have beenan express waiver of this right ; and I should
think an implied- waiver- would equally preclude- a reiiew of
the case by this court;- and that such waiver ought to, be
implied. in all cases where it does not .uppear, that in point
of fact the question was made, and received .the judgment of
the. state court. But to entertain jurisdiction,in this case, is
peihaps not going farthei than this court has already gone,
and I do not mean to call in question these decisions; but
-have,bately noticed the question, for the purpose of stating
the rule by which I 'think all cases under this section should
be tested.

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

The more important question upon the merits of the case
is, whether the constitution of the United States interposes
any impediment to the plaintiff's right of recovery in this
case. And this question has been presented at the bar under
the following points:
1. Whether the certificates issued under the proVisions
of the law of the state of Missouri, are bills of credit, within
"
the 'sense and meaning of the constitution.
2. If so, whether, as they formed the consideration of the
note on which the judgment below was recovered; the note
was rendered thereby void and irrecoverable
-The first is a very important question, and not free from
difficulty; and one upon which I have entertained serious
doubts: but looking at it in all its bearings, and considering
the consequences to which.the rule established by a majority
of the court will lead, when carried out to its full extent, I
am compelled to dissent from the opinion pronounced in this
case.
The limitation upon the powers of the state of Missouri,
which is supposed to have been transcended, is contained
in the tenth section of the first article of the constitution of
the United States. "No state' shall emit bills of credit;"
Are the certificates issued under the authority of the Missouri
law,. gills of credit, within this prohibition! .
The form of the certificate is prescribed in the third section of the act (act 27th of June 1821) as follows:
4 Tlhis certificate shall be receivablo at the treasury or any
-of the loanofficeg of the state of Missodri, in the discharge of
with
taxes or debts due to the state, for the sum- of $-,
interest for the same at two per centum per annum, from this
date," &c. And the thirteenth section declares, " that the
certificates of the said. loan office shall be receivable at the
treasury of the state, and by all tax gatherers and other public officers, in payment of taxes or other-moneys now due, or
to become due to the.state, or any county or town therein;
and the. said certificates shall also be received by all officers,
civil and. military, in'the state, in the discharge of ialaries
and fees of office." It is proper here to notice, that if the
latter branch of thili section should be considered as con-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. vs.'Tire State of Missouri.]

flicting with that prohibition in the constitution, which declares that no state shall make iny thing but gold and silver

coin a tender 'in-payment of debts; no such question is involved in the case now before the court, and the law-may be
good.in part, although bad in part.
The precise meaning and interpretation of the terms, bills
of credit, has no where been settled; or if it has, it has-not
fallen within -myknowledge.* As used in the constitution,
it certainly cannot be applied to all obligations, or vouchers,
given by, or under the authority of a state for the payment
of money. The right of a state to borrow money cannot be
questioned ; and this necessarily irplies the right of giving
some voucher for the repayment: and it would seem to me
difficult to maintain the proposition, that such voucher cannot legally and constitutionally assume a negotiable character; and as such,_to a certain extent, past as, or become a
substitute for mopey- The act does not profess to make
these certificates a circulating medium, or-substitute for'money. They are (except as relates to public officers) made
receivable only for taxes and debts due to the state, and for
salt sold by the' lessees of salt springs belonging to the
state. These are special and limited objects; and'these
certificates cannot answer -the purpose of a circhlating medium, to any considerable extent.
A simple promise to pay a sum of dioney, a,bond or other
security given for the payment of the same, cannot be considered a bill of credit, within the sense- of the c-nstitution.
Such a consfruction would take from the states all.power to
borrow money, or execute any'obligat-ion for the repayment.
The natural and literal meaning of the terms import a bill
drawn on credit merely, and not bottomed upon any redl or
substartial fund for its redemption. There is a material and
well known distinction between a bill drawn upon a fund,
and one drawn upon credit only. A bill of credit may there-

fore be considered a bill drawn and resting merely upon

the credit of the draiver; as contradistinguished from afun:
constituted or 15ledged for the payment of the bill. Thus.
the constitution vests in cpngress the power to borrow
money on the credit of the United States. A bill drawn

SUPREME COURT.
LCraig et al; vs. the State of Missouri.]

under such authority would be a bill of credit.

And this

idea is. more. fully expressed in the old c'onfederation,
(Art. 9.) "Congress shall have -power to borrow money
or emit bills on the credit of the United States." Can the
certificates issued under the Missouri law, according to the
fair and reasonable construction of the act, he said to rest
on the credit of the state!. Although the securities taken
forfthe certificates loaned are not in terms pledged for their
redemption, yet these securities constitute a fund amply sufficient for that purpose, and may well be considered a fund
provided for that purpose. The certificates are a mere loan
upon security in'double the amount loaned. And in addition thereto, (section 29),, provision is made expressly for
constituting a fund for the redemption of these certificates.
These. are guards and checks against their-depreciation, by
insuring their iultimate redemption.
The emissions of paper money by the states, previous to the
adoption of the constitution, were, properly speaking, bills of
credit; not being bottomed upon any furd constituted for
their redemption, but resting solely for that purpose upon the
credit .of the state issuing the same. There was no check
therefore upon excessive issues ; and a great depreciation and
loss to holders of such bills followed as matter of course.
But when a fund is pledged, or ample provision made for the
redemption of a bill or voucher, whatever it may be called,
there is but little danger of a defreciation or loss.
'But should these certificates be considered bills of credit,
under an enlarged-sense of stich an instrument; it does not
necessarily follow that they are bills of 'credit, within the
sen.se and meaning of the constitution. As no precise and
technical meaning or interpretation of a bill of ceedit has
been shown, we may with propriety look to the state of
things at the adoption of the constitution, to ascertain what
was probably the understanding of the convention by this
limitation-ot the power of the states. The state emissions
of paper mortey had been excessive, and productive of great
mischief. In some states) and at some times, such emissions
were, by law made a tender in payment of private debts, in
others not so. But the great evil that existed was, that

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

creditors were compelled to take such a depreciated curreitey, .and articles of property in payment of their debts:
This being the .mischief, is'it an unfair construction of the
constitution to restrict the intended remedy to the acknowledged and real mischief. The language of the constitution
may perhaps be too broad to admit of this restricted application. But to consider the certificates in question bills of
credit, within the constitution, is in my judgment a construc-"
tion of that instrument which will lead to *erious embarrassent with state legislation; as existing in almost every
member of the union.
If these 'certificates are bills ot credit,-inhibited by the
constitution; it appears to me difficult to escape the conclusion, that' all bank notes, issued either by the states, or
under their authority and permission, are bills of. credit
falling within the prohibition. They are certainly, in point.
of forin, as -uch billi of credit; and if being used as a
circulating mediuno, or substitute for money, makes these
certificates bills (if credit, bank notes ar6 more emphatically such. And not only the notes of banks directly
under the management and control of a state, of which
description of banks there are several in the United States;
but all notes of banks established under the authority of-a
state, must fall within the prohibition. For the states cannot certainly do that indirectly which.they cannot do directly. And, if tiey cannot issue bink notes because they are
bills of credit, they cannot authorise others to do it. If this
circuitous mode of doing the business would take the case
out of the prohibition, it would equally apply to the Missouri certificates ; for they werd issued by persons acting
under the authority of the state, and indeed could, be issued
in no other way.
This prohibition in the constitution could not have been
intended to take from the states all power whatever over a
local circulating medium, and to suppress all paper currency
of every description. The power is given to congress to coin
.money; and the states are prohibited from coining money.
But to construe this, as embracing a paper circulating medium of every description, and thereby render illegal the
Vot. IV.-3 G

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et a]. s. The State of Missouri.]

issuing of all bank notes by or under the authority of the
states, will not, I presume, be contended for by any one.
And I am unable to discover any sound and substantial
reason why the prohibition does not reach all such bank
notes, if it extends to the certificates in question.
The conclusion to which I have come on this point, renders it unnecessary for me to examine the second question
made at the argument. I am of opinion, that the judgment
of the state court ought to be affirmed.
Mr Justice M'LEAN.
Several cases, depending upon the same principles, were
brought into this court, from the supreme court of the state
of Missouri, by writs of error.
In the case of Hiram Craig and others, the declaration sets
forth the cause of action in the following terms, viz. "-or
that whereas, heretofore, on the 1st day of August, in the year
of our lord 1822, at the county, &c. the said Craig, John
Moord and Ephraim Moore made their certain promissory
note in writing, bearing date, &c. and then and there, for
value received, jointly and severally, promised to pay to the
state of Missouri, on the 1st day of November 1822, at the loan
office in Chariton, the sum of one hundred and ninety-nine
dollars and ninety-nine cents, and the two per centum per
annum, the interest accruing on the certificates borrowed
from the 1st day of October 1821, nevertheless," &c.
The general issue of non assumpsit having been pleaded
in each case, the circuit court of Chariton, in which the suits
were commenced, rendered.judgments in favour of the plaintiff. The following entry, in the case of Craig and others,
was made on the record. "And afterwards .at a court begun
and held at Chariton, on Monday the Ist of November 1824,
and on the second day of said.court, the parties by their attorneys appeared, and neither party requiring a jury, the
cause is submitted to the court; therefore, all and singular
the matters and things and evidences being seen and heard
by the court, it is found by them, that the said. defendants
did' assume upon themselves in manner and form as the
plaintiff's counsel allege: and the court also find that the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

consideration for which the writing declared upon and the
assumpsit was made, Was for the loan of loan office certificates, loaned by the state, at her loan office at Chariton;
which certificates were issued, and the loan made in the
manner pointed out by an act of the legislature of the state
of Missouri, approved the 27th day of June 1821; entitled '.an
act for the establishment of loan offices, and the acts amendatory and supplementary thereto.' And the court do
further find, that the plaintiff hath sustained damages, by
reason of the non-performance of the assumptions and undertakings of the said defendants, to the sum of two hundred
and thirty-seven dollars and seventy-nine cents. Therefore.
it is considered," &c.
An appeal was taken to the supreme court of Missouri, in
which this judgment and the others were affirmed. '
The first question which this case presents for consideration, arises under the twenty-fifth section of the judiciary act
of 1789 ; which provides, " that a final judgment or decree
in any suit, in the highest court of law or equity of a state
in which a decision in the suit could be had, where is drawn
in question the validity of a statute of,' or an'authority exercised under any state, on the ground of their being relugnant to the constitution, treaties or laws* of the United'
States, and the decision is in favour of such their validity,"
may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the supreme
court of ile United States upon a writ of error.
Had not the point been settled by several adjudications in
similar cases, I should entertain strong doubts whether it
sufficiently appeared on the record, that the validity of the
statute of Missouri .was drawn in question, on account of its
repugnance to the constitution. In the finding of the Chariton circuit court, the act is referred to, and the consideration. of the note is stated ; but it no where appears in the record, that the validity of the statute was contested. And as
this is the only ground on which this court can take juiisdiction of the case, it would seem to me that it should not
be left to inference, but be clearly stated in the proceeding.
In the supreme court of Missouri, the juslgment of the
circuit court was affirmed; but it does not appear what. ob-

SUPREME COURT.
JCiaig et al. vs. The State of Missousi.]

jections to the affirmance were urged before the court.
This qdestion, ho-wever, seemA not to be open, and I yield
to the force of prior adjudications. Two points must necessarily be considered i-the investigation of thl merits of this
case.
I, Are the certificates authorised to be issued by the law
of Missouri, bills of credit, within the meaning of the constitutibn .
2. If they are bills of credit, is the note on which, this suit
was brought void .
It is contended by the counsel for the plaintiffs in error,
that any paper issued by a state,.that contains a promise to
pay a certain sum, and is i"ntended to be used as a medium
of ci'culation, is a bill of credit, ind"comes within the mischief against which the constitution intended to guard. In
illustration of this position, a reference is made to the depreciated currency of the revolution.
During that most eventful period of our history, bills of
credit formed the ourrency of the country ; and every thing
of greater value was excluded from circulation. These
bills were so multiplied by the different states and by congress, that *heir value was greatly impaired. This loss was
- attempted to Be covered, and the growing wants of the goverament supplied, by increased emissions. 'These caused
a still more rapid depreciation, until-the credit of the bills
sunk so I )w as not to'be current at any price. Various statutes were passed to force their circulation, hnd sustain their
value ; but they proved ineffectual.. For a time, creditors
were compelled to receive these bills under the penalty of
forfeiting their debt; losing the interest; being deriounced as
evemies to the cquntry, or some 6ther penalty. These laws
destroyed all just- relations between- creditor and debtor;.
and so debased a currency produced the most.seribus evils in
almost all the relations of society. Nothing but the ardour of
the most elevated patriotism could overcome the difficulties
and embarrassments growing out of this state of things.
It will be found iomewhat difficult to give a satisfactory
definition of a bill of credit. In what sense it wa§ used in
the constitution, is the object of inquiry.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al.
u. The State ofrissouri.]

Different nations of Europe have emitted-fon various emergencies, three descriptions of paper money. 1. Notes,
stamped with a certain value, which contained no promise
of payment, but were to pass as money. 2. Notes, receivable in payment of public dues, with or without interest.
'3. Notes, which the government promised to pay at a future
period specified, wYith-or without interest, and which were
made receivable in payment -Qf taxes and all debts to the
public.
Bills of the last class were issued during the revolution;
and in some of the colonies they had been emitted long before that time. In 1690 bills of credit were for the first time
issued, as a substitute for money, in the colony of Massachusetts Bay, as stated in Hutchinson's history, In '1716 a
.large emission was made and lent to the inhabitants, to be
paid at a certain period; and in the mean time to pass as
money. For forty years,-the historian says, the cdrrency
was in much the same state as if an hundred thousand
pounds sterling had been stamped on pieces of leather or
paper of various denominations, and declared to be the
molidy of the government, without any other sanction than
this, that when there should be taxes to pay, the treasury
would receive this sort of money ; and that every creditor
should be obliged to receive it from his debtor.
The bills issued during the revolution were denominated
bills of credit. In 1780 the United States -guarantied the
payment of bills emitted by the states. They all contained
a promise of payment at a future day; and where they were
not made a legal tender, creditors were often compelled to
receive them in pnyment of debts, or subject themselves to
great inconvenience and peril.
The character of these bill.s, and the evils which resulted.
from their circulation, give the tkue definition of a bill of"
credit, within the meaning of the constitution ; and-of the
mischiefs against which the constitution provides.
The following is the form of the bills emitted in 1780,
under the guarantee of congress. "The possessor of this
bill shall be-paid
Spanish milled dollars by the U3lst
day of Deccmber.1786, with interest, in like meney, at +he

454

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et al. i. The State of Missiouri.]

rate- of five per cent per annum, by the state of
-,
according to an act," &c.
Bills of credit were denominated- current money; andwere often referred to -in -the proceedings of congress by
that title, in contradistinction- to loan office- certificates.
It is reasonable to suppose that in using the term "bills
of credit" in the constitution, such bills were meant as
were known at the time by that denomination. If the
term be susceptible of a broader signification, it would not
be safe so- to construe it; ad it would extend the provision beyond the evil intended to be prevented, and instead
of operating as a salutary restraint, might be productive of
serious mischief. The words of the constitution must always
be construed according to their plain import, looking at their
connexion and the object in view. Under this rule of construction, I have come to the conclusion, thai to constitute a
bill of credit, within the meaning of th- constitution, it must
be issued by a state, and its circulation as money enforced
by statttory provisions. . It must contain a promise of payment by the state generally, when no fund has been appropriated to enable the holder to convert it into money. It
must be circulated on the credit of the state; not that it will
be paid on presentation, but that the state, at some future
period, on a time fixed, or resting in its own discretion, will
provide for .the payment,
If a more extended definition than this were given to the
term, it would produce the most serious embarrassments tothe fiscal operations of a state. Every state in the transactions of its moneye4d concerns, has one department to investigate and pass accounts, and another to pay them. Where a
warrant is issued for the amount due to'a' claimant, which is
to be paid on presentation to the treasurer, can it be denominated a bill of credit ? And inay not this warrant be negotiated, and pasi in ordinary transactions, as money? This
is very common in some of the states ; and yet it has not
been supposed to be an infraction of the constitution.
Audited bills are often found in circulation; ii which the
state promises.to pay a certain sum, at.some future day specified. If these.are inhibited by the constitution, can a state
make loans of money ? Can there be any difference between

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

borrowing money from a creditor, and any other person who'
does not stand in that relation . The amount cannot alter
the principle. If a state may borrow one hundred thousand
dollars, she may borrow a less sum ; and if an obligatioii p
pay with or without interest may be given in the one caseit may in the other.
Where mohey is borrowed by a state, it issues script which
contains a promise to pay, according to the terms of the
contract. If the lender, for his own* convenience, profers
this script in small denominations, may not the.state accommodate him . This may be made a condition of the loan.
If a state shall think proper to borrow, money of its own
citizens, in sums'of five, ten, or twenty dollars, .may it not
do so . If it be unable to meet the claims of its creditors,
shall it be prohibited from acknowledging the claims, and
promising payment with interest at a future day . The
principles of justice ind sound policy alike require this; and
unless the right of the state to do so be clearly inhibited; it
must be admitted.
In the adjustment of claims against a county, orders are
issued on the county treasury; and it is common for these to
circulate, by "delivery or assignment, as bank notes or bills
of exchange.
May a state do, indirectly, that which the constitution prohibits it from doing directly!- If it cannot isaue a bill or
note, which may be put into circulation as a substitute for
money, can it, by an act of incorporation, authorise.a company to issue bank bills on the capital of the state ? It will
thus be seen, that if an extended construction be given to'
the term "bills of credit," as used in the constitution; it may
be made to enibrace almost every description .of paper issued
by a state.
The words of the constitution are,
that " no state shall
enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation ; grant letters
of marque and reprisal ; coin money; emit bills of credit;.
make any thing but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts ; pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto raw,
or law impairing the obligations of'contracts; or grant any
title of nobility."

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et al.
vs. The State of Missouri.]

Under the statute of Missouri, certificates in the following
form were issued ""This certificate shall be receivable at
the treasury, or any of the loan offices of the state of Missouri, in the discharge of taxes or debts due to the state, for
the sum of
dollars, with interest for the same, at the
rate of two per centum per annum, from this date, the
day of
182 .
It appears by the thiil section of the act, that two hundred thousand dollars were authorised to be issued, of-the
above certificates, each not exceeding ten dollars, nor less
than fifty cents. By the thirteenth section, these certificates
were made receivable at the state treasury by tax gatherers
and other public officers, in payment of taxes or moneys due
to the state, or any county or town therein ; and they were
made receivable by all officers in payment of salaries, and
fees of office.
Under the fifteenth section, commissioners were authoiL
sed to loan these certificates to the citizens in the state'; apportioning the. amountamong the several counties according
to the population, on mortgages or personal security. The
act provides the means -by which'these certificates shall be
paid, and the fact is admitted that at this time they are all
redeemed by the state.
The design, in- issuing these certificates, seems, to have
been to furnish -the citizens of Missouri with the means of
paying to the state, the taxes which it imposed, and other
debts due to it. It was in effect giving a credit to the .
debtors of the state, provided they would give good real or
personal security. Had the arrangement been confined to
those who owed the state ;and had certificates been required
of them,' promising to pay the amount, with interest; no objection could have been urged to the legality of the transaction. And even if the state; in the discharge of its debts,
had. paid such certificates, the act would not have been illega).
The state of Missouri adopted no measures to force the
circulation of the above certificates. No creditor was under
any obligation to receiye them. By refusing them, his -debt
-was not postponed., n6r the interest upon it suspended. The

-JANUARY TER-. 1830.

457'

[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.l

object was a benign one, to'relieve the citizens from an, extraordinary pressure, produced by the failure of local banks,
and the utter .worthlessness of the currency. Without. aid
from the governmentrthe citizens of Missouri -could not
have paid the taxes or. debts which they owed to the state,
in a medium of any value. At (such a crisis- the law was
enacted; and, as contemplated in 'ts passage, so-soon as the
necessary relief was afforded, ihe paper was withdrawn from
circulation. The measure was only i'elt in-the benefits it
conferred. No loss was sustained by th public or by' individuals; unless indeed the state shall lose by the unconscion able defence set up to these actions.
It is admitted, that the expediency or inexpediency of a
measure cannot be considered, in giving-a construction to
the constitution. But when, in giving a construction to that
instrument, it becomes necessary, as it does in. some instances, talook into the mischiefs provided against; dnd the application becomes, to some extent, a matter of inference, -the
question of expediency must be considered.
If the ict of Missouri coriferred benefits upon the people
of the state, and was so guarded in its p iovisions as ,to.protect them from all possible evil, no court would fel inclined
to declare it to be iunconstitutional and void, unless itwas
directly opposed to the -letter and -spirit-of fl constitution.
As the spirit of that provision, was to-lrotect the-citizens of
the states against the evils of: a debased'eurrency ;and a-s
the act under consideration, ,so far as it', perafed upon the
people of -Missouri, had no tendency to produce this'evil,
-but to x'lieve against it; the spirit of the constitution was not
violate). Was the act of Missouri against it§ letter !.Were
the certificates issued by the state" bills of credit!" They
were not, if the definition of a bill of.credit, as now given'
be correct.. Their circulation was not forced by statutory
provision, in any form; there was no promise on their face
to pay at any future day; in their form and substance, they
bore-little or no resemblance, to the continental bills'. *They
were calculated, from the manner in which they were created
and circulated, to introduce none of the evils so'deeply felt
from the currency of: the revolution.
VOL. IV.-S H
-

SUPREME COURT.
[Craig et al.'vs. The State of Missouri.]

Suppose the state of Missouri had stamped certificates
with a certain value; and provided that they should be received 'as money, according to the -denominations given
them, could they have been called bills of credit!. Cer-"
tainly-not.;" for they contained no -promise of payment, to
which the holder could give credit., Such an act, by a state,
woulld most clearly be void;: but not under the provision of
the constitution, which prohibits a state from issuing "bills
of credit.""
Can any certificate or bill be considered a bill of credit,
wifhfin the meaning of the constitution, to which the receiver
must nbt give credit to the promise of the state!. Must itnot, literally, be a "bill of credit!" Not a bill which
will be received in -payment of public dues,when presented,
but which the state promises to redeem at a future day.
A substitution of the credit. of the state for money, may.
be considered as an essential ingredient to constitute a "bill
of credit." When this is wanting, whatever other designation may be given to the thing-whether .it
be called paper
money, or a state bill, it cannot be called a." bill of credit."
The credit refers to a future time of payment ;'and noc to the
confidence we feel in the punctuality'of the state, in -paying the bill *hen. presented.. A bill, therefore, which is
payable on presentation, is riot a bill of credit, within the
meaning of the constitution; nor is a bill which contains
no promise to pay at a future day; but a simple declaration,
that it will be received in payment of public dues.
If this course of argument appears somewhat technical,
it must be recollected that the' question under consideration inVolves the validity of an act of a state; which is
sovereign in'all matters, except where rdstrictions are im-.
posed, and an express delegation of p~wer is made to the
federal government. The solqmn act of a state, which has
been sanctioned by all the branches of its. power, cannot,
under any circumstances, be lightly regarded. The act of
Mi~s.ouri having received the sanction of the legislative,
executive, and judicial .departments of the government,
cannot be set aside and disregarded under a douhtful construction of the constitution. Doubts should lead' to an
-

JANUARY 'TERM 1830.
.[Craig et a]: vs%The State of Missbufi.]

ecquiescence ih the act. The power which declares.it mull
and void, should be exercised- only -where the right to do so
is perfectly clear.
That such a power is vested .in this tribunal by- the constitution, which feceived" the sanction of all the-states, can
only be doubted by those who are incapable of comprehending the plqinest principle in constitutional law.. - It is-a tluestion arising under the-constitution, and all such questions of
power; whether in the generaloor state goverpments, belong
to ihis tribunal. The policy of -this investiture of-power
may be questioned.; but the f t of its existence cannot- be.
Believing that in every point of view in which the paper
issued by the state of Missouri may be considered, it is -at
least doubtiful whether it comes within the -meaning of a
"bill of credit,' prohibited by the constitution; I am inclined
to affirm theJiadgmen.t of the state court. But it this ground
of the delence be- admitted- does it follow-that the judgment
must be reversed, This presents for consideration the second proppsition stated,
If the certificates under consideration were 1"bills of
credit," within-the meaning of the constitution, is the note
on which:this suit is brought, v6id .
The position assumedin the argument, that no contract
can be validthat ig founded upon a consideration which is
contrary to good morals, against the policy of the law, or a
positive statute, cannot be sustained to the extent as urged.
The ground is admitted to-be Correct, generally ; but there
are. exceptions which it becomes important to notice.
In the state of Pennsylvania usury is prohibited under the
sanction of certainopenalties, but usury does not render the
contract void; a recovery may be had upon it, with the legal
rate of 'interest. It is competent for a state to p ohibit
gambling by a severe-penalty ; and yet to provide that an obligation given for money lost at gambling shall be valid. - It
may declare,'by law, that all instruments for the payment of
money, signed by the, pa'rty, shall be held valid, without
reference to the consideration. The legislative power of a
state over contracts is without restriction by the constitution of the United States; except that their obligation can-

SUPREME ,COURT.
[Craig et al.vs. The State of Missouri.]

not be impaired. - With this single exception, a state legislature may regulate contracts, both as to "their form and
-substance, as may be thought advisable.
Suppose' the, constitution of.Missouri had" prohibited -the
emission o1" bills of credit,'without going, further; might not
the legislature provide by law, that'obligations given on a
loan of such bills should be valid. There would be no
more inconsistency in, this than'in.-the law of Pennsylvania,
which forbids usury, and' yet holds 'the instrument valid. If
the constitution of the United States had provided that ill
obligations given for bills of credit, or where they-formed a
part of th'e eonsideration, should'be void, there could 'have
existed no doubt on the subject. ,But there is no such provision 5 and if the obligation be held void, its invalidity is. a
matter of intrence, arising from the supposed illegality of
the consideration. The constitution prohibits a state from
Semitting bills of credit," . The law of'Missouri declares,
substantially, that obligations given, ivhere these bills, form' .
the consideration, shall be held valid. Is there an incompatibility in 'these provisions. Does the latter destroy the
f6rmer, or render-it ineffectual.
Suppose a' state should coin' money, would such- moiney
.not constitute; a valuable consideration for a promissory
note ' Would not the intrinsic value of the silver as bullioii,
be' a ufficient consideration.? Would such a constructioa
conflict with .the 'constitution ..
A state is prohibited irom coining money; consequently
the money which it may coin cann-ot be circulated as such.
A creditor will be under no obligation to receive it in discharge of his debt. If anys't.tutory provision of the state
should' be formed, with a view of forcing the circulation of
such coi n, by suspending the interestor postponing the debt.
of' a creditor where it was refused, such statute would be
void, because it would act on the thing prohibited- and come
directly in conflict with the. consfitution. SIdch would not
be the case in reference to the obligation given for this coin:
In the first place, the act 'would be voluntary. on the part
of.the purchaser; and in the second, the consideration would.
bd a valuable one. The. statute s anctions not the coin, but

JXNUARY T{ERNU830o.

46.

[Craig-et al. vs. The State oMissou01

the bbligatibn which was-given for it. The'aotfe iefing
the consideration may ;be denounced. and .punished, as: in
the case'-, of usury in. Peansyvania; and vet thq obligation
held good. -Would this cbnstruction .render iieffectul -the
Prohibition of' the 'constitutioni. This maybe answered by.
considering how ineffectual'this. provision mist be, ifits
efficacy depenfd on.making void the' eontract.
The loaning of this -coin is-onfy one'.of many .modes -which
a state might .adopt to circulate it. ,Inthe payment-of its
creditors, -and in-works -of improvement, the state could, al.ways find th6 most, ample means'of'dirculation.
Effect 'is -given to this. provision epfhe constitution, by
limiting. it to the'thing prohibited. If a'stat "emiti.bil1s: of.
credit, or coin money,-neither can ss ,s nloney,, whaitevei
may be the regelati6n on the. subject. N'cspialt es' have'
been provided -to prevent such a.
ciraoulattbn';- no gantiop.

to enforce it -would be -valid.
But, it is contended' that 'theeottbnce coiisists.in ciroula'tmg the bills; that b6ifg the i.eanng of the word. "emit.'!
Congress may.issue 'bills of crediA, and. perhaps have'done so
in' the emissions of treasury notes: 'i a state pr6hibited from.
circulating them.. 'If o'tit -must be admitted, the' -violation of the constitution con§is:ts, not inthe. 'cirgulation- of
surh bill, but in their creation.
The.piohibition of the constitution'was intend ed-to-aet'
on -the Aovereignty of a state,- iA i6, legislative .capaoity.
But there is no powei 'in the .fedeal government whi'ch"can
act upon this sovereignty. It is onlywhen its inhibited acts
affecV-the 'rights of individuals, 'that the 'judicial power":of
the. union-can be interposed
If'a state legislature pass an.ex-post facto 'law, or a law
'impairing the obligation. ofconttacts;-i remains n harmless
enactment on the statute b~oluntijl -it is broughtto bear,
injuriously, on-individual rights; So, if a state coin" moneyor admit bills of credi't, the questibn of tight must be raised

before-this tribimal, in th6'same manner.
Th'e law of Missouri txpress.ly snctions th -obligatiohs
given on a-loan of these certificates, Had-not.'this been
done, and if the certificates-wera bills of cred t,within the

SUPREME. COURT.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missouri.]

meaning of the constitution, the obligations might have been
considered void,- as agaihst the policy of the supreme law
of the. land.
There'ig no-pretence that there has been a failure of consideration for Which the notes in controversy were given.
The certificates have long since been received by the state
as money, and the promissors have realized their full value.
If they can avoid the..payment of their notes, as they
wish:to do by the defernce set up,•it-must be alone on the
grbund of the illegality of the-consideration. Suppose the
notes had been given, under the-same circumstances, payable to an individual; from whom the-consideration had been
received; could the defence be-sustainedl
-In-such. a ease, there could be no allegation -of a failure
of consideration.- The constitution prohibits the state from
issding.thb certificates;- but the-law of Missouri declares, that
obligations given fbr these certificates shall be valid. These
•notds, biing given for a valuable- consideration, may'be enforced, unless -the constitution makes them void. This. it
doe§ not'do by express provision; and can they be avoided
-by inference 't An ifiference, which' does not necessarily
followy as has.. been shown, from the prohibition; because
such a cbnequence is prevented by the act of'Missouri.
This act-may be void as to the emission" of the bills; but it
dtoes not follow that the part'which relates to the notes.must
*iso be void. It- would -seem, therefore, that effect may be
given to -the-provision':of 'the constitutioh, so as to prevent
-the mischiefj by operating upoii the circulation -cf ihe bills,
Without extending the consequence.-so as 'to make void- the
contract" expressly sanctioned by the law-of Missouri: And
if such a construction-may be given, will not the court in.cline-togiva! it; a order that both laws mdy be carried into
full:effect- where their provisions do- no" tome directly'in

conftet .
The.passing of counterfeit money is prohibited'under tevere penalties, by the lavs of everystate-and: is it not in the
power.of a State to provid.e by law, that' every obligation
,given for counterfeit paper- known to be such by boLth parties, shall be valid. This will scarcely be' denied. And if

JANUARY TERM-.1830.
[Craig et al. vs. The State of Missogri.1

a state may do this, under its sovereign power to regtilate
contracts ; may it not give validity to the notes under consideration. Had not the state.of Missouri a right to provide
that every citizen who should voluntarily execute an obligation for the payment of money to the state, should be heldbouind to pay it,
although given without consideration. If
this do not, come within the province of legislation in a
sovereigh state, I know not where its powers may not! be
restricted. And if this m~iy be done, can the notes under
consideration be held void. If the certificates were illegally
created, they were of value, and under the law -of Missouri
constituted a valuable. 'consideration for the-notes given.
In any view, the notes which were executed bding sanctioned
bylaw, and consequently valid even without consideration,
cannot be less so, when given for the certificates. I am
therefore, inclined to say, not without great hesitation, as I
differ, with the majority of the court, that the judgment
should be affirmed on this ground.
In the first place, then, from the consideration which I.have
been able to give this -case, I am not convinced that the certificates issued by the state of Missouri were bills of credit,
within the meaningof the constitution. And unless my conviction was clear on this point, my duty and inclination unite
to sustain the judgment of th'e supreme court of Missouri.
And secondly, as has been shown, it appears to me, thatthe
contract on which this action is founded is not void; even
admitting that the certificates were bills of credit
All questions of power, arising under-the constitution of
the United States, whether they relate to the federal or a state
government, must be.considered of great imporrance. Th.e
federal government being fqrmed for. certain purposes, is
limited in its powers, and can in no case exercise authority
where the power has not been delegated. The states are.
sovereign; with the exception of certain powers, which have
been invesfed in the general government, and inhibited to
the states No state can coin money, emit bills of credit,
pass ex post facto laws,. or laws impairing the obligation of
contracts, &c. If -any state violate a provision of the consti t..on, or be charged with such violation to the injury of

SUPREM COURT.
[Craig et al.'v#.
The State of Missouri.]

private right§, .the question. is made before thid tribunal ; to
whom 'all -such questions, under, the constitution, of right
belong. hfi
.such'a casei' this court 'is to the state, what'its
own supreme-court would be,.ivhere the constitutionality of
alaw wa4- questioned under the constitution of the 'state.
And within- the delegation. of- pow~er, the decision of this
court is as fiial and conclusive on' the statej -aswould be the
decision of its own'-6urtin' the cage stated.
That distinct; sQvereignties could exist under one governAment, :emanating from the same people, was a phenomenon
in the po'1ktical world,-which the -wiseststatesmen in'Europe _could not comprehend; and of its practicability many in,our.
own. country entertained the most serious doubts., Thus far
the friends-of liberty have had great aause -of trirxuph in the
success of' the.principles upon 'which our go'ernment rests.
BUt',all must admit that 'the 'purity and permanency,6f this
system.depend on its faithftaL. administration.. The states
anid thee federal- government .haye their. respective orbits;
witliiw.hich eadh.must revolve. If.either: cross the sphere
of the. 'pther, the harropny of the *system is destroyed,, and
'its- ittdngth is impaired. It would be as gross 'usurpation
on the part of-the federal government to interfere with state
rights, by an exercise of -pbwers -not4elegated ; as it would
bie for a-state to '.interpose its authority against a law of the
uziioni
. The'judiciary of a state, in all cases brought before them,
have a right to decide whether or not an act of 'the federal
government be constitutional, the same as they have a right
.to-determine on the, constitutionality of'an act- under the
state constitution : but, in all such cases, this tribunal may super-vise the decisions. It is often a difficult matter to define
the limitations of the legislative, the. executive, and the judicial- pow6rs of a state.; -and this difficulty is greater in
defining the limitations df the federal government. In both
'cases,' the respective, constitutions must be looked to as the
source of power; but in the latter, itis often necessary to deteripine not only whether the power be.vested, but whether
it is inhibited to. the state. Some powers in the general
government are exclusive ; others concurrent with the states.
The experience of many years may be necessary to estab-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

465 .

vs. The State ol Missouri.]
[Craig et al.

lish, by practical illustrations, the exact boundaries of these
powers, if indeed they can ever be clearly and satisfactorily
defined. Like the colours of the rainbow, theyseem to intermix, so as to- render a separation extremely difficult,j'if
not impracticable. By the exercise of a spirit of mutual
forbearance, the line may be ascertained with sufficient. precision for all practical purposes. In a state, where doubts
exist as to 'the investiture of power, it should not be exercised, but referred to the people ; in'the general government,
should similar doubts arise, the powers should be referred
to the states and the people.
'This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the supreme court of the state of Misspuri, for
the first judicial district, and was argued by counsel ; .on consideration whereof, this court is of opinion, that there is error
in the rendition of the judgment of the said court in this,
that in affirming the judgment rendered by the circuit court
for the.county of Chariton, that court has given an opinion
in favour of the validity of the act of the legislature of Missouri, passed on the 27th of June 1821, entitled "an act for
the establishment of loan offices," which act is, in the opinion of this court, repugnant to the constitution of. the
United States ; whereupon it is considered by the court, that.
the said judgment of the said supreme cort of the state of
Missouri for the first judicial district ought to -be' reversed
and annulled; and the same is liereby reversed and annulled;,
and the cause remanded to that cotrt, with directions to enter judgment in favour of the defendant to the original action.

VOL. IV.-S3

I

