SUPREME CPURT.

OLaVER SAUNDERn
, PLA-NTIFPnr

EiRon vs. BmsAiriN Gouri.

Where the whole cause, and not a pointor points in the cause, has been adjourned from the circuit court to this court, the cas will be remanded to the circuit court.
The case was, admitted to be essentially the same with that of Gardner vs. Collins, 2 Peters, 58; but the counsel for the plaintiff relied'on evidence adduced
td show a settled judicial constructidn-onf the act of the legislature of Rhode
Island, relative to descents, different from that which had been made in this

court.

"

The court is not convinced that the construction of the act which

prevails i6 Rhode Island is opposed to that which was made by this court."

THIScase came before the court on a certificate of a
division of opinion by the judges "fthe circuit court for the
district of Rhode Island.
"It w-as submitted, without argument, by Mr Coxe for the
plaintiff in error, and Mr Whipple for the defenlant.

*Mr Chief Justice

MARSHALL stated,
When this case was brought before The court, it was admitted by the counsel to be essen4ially'the same with Gardner vs. Collins, relorted in q Peters's Rep. 58; but he relied
.on certain eyidences which he exhibited of a settled judicial
construction of the act on which the cause depended, different from that which had been made by this court. Had the
court been satisfied on this point, that settled construction
would undoubtedly have been xespected. But the -court
was not convinceda that the construction which prevails in
Rhode- Island is opposed to that which was made by this
court. On communicating this decisiQn to the bar, counsel
declined arguing the cause ;-and a certificate, similar to that
which v,as given. in the former case,.was about to be prepared: but on inspecting the record, it was perceived 'that'
the judges of the circuit court,,ins tead of dividing on oneor
more points, had divded on the'whole cause ; and had directed the whole -case to be certified to this court. Considering this as irregular', the court directs the- cause to be
remanded to.the circuit court; that further, proceedings may
be had therein according to law.

