124

THE UNITED

SUPREME COURT.

STATES," APPELLANTS 28. JOHN' MORRISON
OTHERS, A -PELLEES.

AND

There is no statute in Virginia which epressly makes a judgment a lien upon
the lands of the debtor. As in Englanq the lien is the consequenee of a right
-to take out an clegit. During.the existence of this, the lien is universally
acknowledged. Different opinions seem at different times to have been entertained of the effect of any suspension of this right.
Soon after this case was decided in the circuit court for the district of East
Virginia, a case was decided in the court of appeals of the state, in which this
question on tMe execution law of the state of Virginia was elaborately argued,
and deliberately decided.: That decision is, that the right to take out an elefacias, and donsequently, that
git is not suspended by suing'out a writ of fieri
the lien of the judgment continues pending the proceedings on that writ.
This court, according to its uniform uourse, adopts the construction of the
act which is made by the highest court of the state.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of East
Virginia.
In the circuit court, the United States filed a bill the object of which was to make certain real property, assigned on
the 22d of October 1823 by John Morrison to Robert G.
Ward, subject to a judgment obtained in their favour in the
western district of Vifginia, in October 1819. The assignment made by Morrison to Ward was general, of all his property, in trust for the payment of his-debts to sundry persons.
The deed of trust referred to'certain brevious deeds of trust
which Morrison had executed, conveying a large portion of
thd same property to secure particular debts. The previous
deeds'were all executed subsequent to the rendition of the
judgment in favour of 'the United States in October 1819 ;
viz. on the. 14th of February 1823, the 21st of February
1823, the 9th of March 182 3. Divers creditors of Morrison
had issued their executions of fieri facias against-the property of John Morrison; which had* been dulyjlevied upon
the same, before the execution of the general assignment of
October 1823.
On the day the judgment was obtained by the United
States, in 1819, a part of the same was enjoined, and an exe-

JANUARY -TERM 1830
(United States vs. Morrison et al.]

cution was issued for the remainder, which was levied on the
property of Morrison and Roberts, and a forthcoming bond
was 'given by John Morrison, Roberts and their sureties; and
the debt not being paid, an execution was awarded against
Morrison, Roberts and one of the sureties, and issued in
April 1822. While it was in the hands of the marshal, and
before it was levied, the agent of the treasu-y, at the instance
of the defendant , instructed the marshal to forbear levying
it, on condition of the defendants' paying the costs; and the
costs being paid, the marshal didnot make a levy, and made
a return within the year 1822, that all further proceedings
were suspended, in pursuance of the said instructions. A
second fieri facias was issued on the 5th of February 1825, on
which the marshal returned "no effects found, not conveyed by deed of trust."
In the bills filed by the United States, they asserted their
claim to the payment of their judgment against Morrison in
preference to all the other creditors, out of the property assigned to Ward; this claim extending over the property
conveyed in the deeds executed prior to the assignment, and
also to'the proceeds of other real property levied on by executions issued by creditors. The claim was asserted upon
two distinct grounds. 1. Upon the sixty-fifth section of the
act of congress of 1799, ch. 128, which declares that-in all
cases of insolvency, or where any estate in the hands of executors, administrators and assigaees shall be insufficient to
pay all the debts due from the deceased, the debt due to the
United States, &c. shall be first satisfied, &c. 2. Upon the
ground that their judgment against Morrison gave them a
lien upon the land, which, under the facts of the case, they
allege was a subsisting one, to overreach the liens created
by the deeds executed by Morrisot.
The circuit court were of opinion, that the deed of Octo..
ber 1823 was a general assignment, and that the United
States were entitled to priority out of the subject contained
in that deed ; that nothing was to be considered as effectually conveyed by that deed which had been embraced by
the previous deeds, or levied upon by executions previous to
that deed; that the United States had no claim, either by vir-

126

SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Morrison et al.]

tue of their statutory priority or judgment, to the property
contained in tle previous deeds, and levied upon by the previous executions, exceptto any surpluses which might xemain: and proceeded to decree in favour of the United States
for the value of all the property in the deed of October 1823,
not embraced by the previous deeds and executions, there
being no surplus ; and dismissed their bill, so far as it asserted
a claim to charge the property conveyed by said prior deeds,
or covered by the executions.
From so much of the decree as dismissed their bill to the
-extent stated, the United States appealed to this court.
For the United States, Mr Berrien, attorney general, cohtended -"
That the judgment of the United States against Morrison
was, at the'time of executing the several deeds, a good, subi.sting and prior lien ; and that they are-entitled to have the
proceeds of the sales of the real estate of Morrison first applied in satisfaction of the judgment.
The general rule is understood to -be, that in settling the
priorities of incumbrances, judgments are regarded as such
*from the time of rendering them; and that in England, and
those states whose laws are similar, with a view to such an
object, no inquiry is made to ascertain whether an elegit had
issued, or the election to issue it had been entered on the roll
within the year and a day.
It is confidently believed that no such case can be found.
And it is understood that the circuit court concurred in the
principle 3 but rested its decision on two grounds. 1. That
the elegr wZ'uld not overreach the title of an incumbrancer
or purchaser, unless at-the time that the conveyance was
made to the incumbrancer dr purchaser, the judgment creditor could sue out an elegit; and 2. That after a partial levy
of a fieri facias, an'elegit could not be sued out until another .fieri facias was sued out, and a return of nulla bona
had thereon.
This conclusion was deduced from the construction given
by the court to the Virginia statute of executions. This is
therefQre emphatically a casd which calls into exercise the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Morrisoa et al.]

principles so often, and in so many various forms asserted
bythis court, of a determination to conform its decisions to
that of the state courts in their local laws. 1 Wheat. 279.
2Wheat. 317. 6Wheat. 316. 10 Wheat. 153, &c. &c.
With this view of the subject,-there has been obtained a
statement of a case almost contemporaneously decided in
the court of appeals of the state of Virginia, after an elaborate argument. "Itis the case of Fox vs. Rootes et al. not yet
reported; but a statement of which having been communicated to the coungel of the appelleei is now submitted.
This case disposes definitively of the first point ruled in
the circuit court: for the court of appeals have therein
decided,--that a judgment creditor is entitled to priority
over a subsequent incumbrancer, though his judgment had
been rendered many years before, and no execution had ever
issued on it, and of course no execution could issue until
revived by scire facias.
It is unneoessary, on this.branch of the subject, to make any
other remark than that, if in the construction of the laws of
Virginia this court conforms its decision to that of the court
of appeals of Virginia, the case is decisive of the present controversy; unless the objection suggested by the counsel oi
the appellees, that it has not been reported, should weigh
with the court. Should this be important, the court will
retain the cause-until an authentic copy of the decision can
be obtained.
The case of Coleman vs. Cooke, 6 Randolph, 618, is relied
upon, as in itself sufficient to sustain the claim of the United
States. The counsel for the appellee supposes it does not
overrule the case of Eppes vs. Randolph, 2 Call, 125, to
which he has referred; nor conflicit with the decision of the
circuit court in this case. It is true, that it is said by the court
in Coleman vs. Cooke, that the eases of Eppes vs. Randolph
and the United States vs. Morrison, do not touch the case of
Coleman vs.Cooke on the question of jurisdiction, nor on its
merits; but they immediately state it to have bben "the uniform coolrse of the English court of chancery, to consider a
judgment, with a ciapacity to-acquire the right to sue out an
elegit by scire facias or otherwise, as a lien, &c. ; and in

SUPREME COURT
[United States vs. Morrison et al.]

the very front of the decision in Eppes vs. Randolph, they
proceed to decide that the plaintiffs in that case had an existing capacity to sue out elegits upon their decrees; "without any preliminaryproceeding whatever;" while in direct
conflict with the decision of the circuit court in this case,
they affirm that a party having taken out a fieri facias, which
had been levied and returned in part satisfied, may sue out
an elegit.without a second fieri facias, and the return of
nulla bona.
The circuit court proceeded on the principle that at the
time of the execution of the deeds of trust in February and
March 1823, the United States had no existing capacity to
sue out an elegit; while the court of appeals have decided
that such capacity existed without any preliminary proceeding whatever, and that this capacity subsisted, notwithstanding the partial levy of a fieri facias, and without suing out a
second writ and procuring a return of nulla bona.
On the principles settled by the court of appeals in the
case of Coledian vs. Cooke, the United States had unquestionably a capacity'to sue out an elegit at the time of the
executipn of the deeds of trust, in February and March 182:5.
The case of Tyler vs. Rice, furnished by the counsel .of
the appellee, is a decision in an inferior court. The time
allowed by law for taking out the elegit had expired; but in
the case at bar, the year and day had not expired when the
deeds were executed.
The United States cannot be in a worse situation by the
issuing and partial levy of the fieri facias, than they would
haveheen had no execution whatever issued on that judgment
up to the time when the deeds of trust we're made: since the
court of appeals have decided, that the partial levy of the
fieri facias did not, impair their right to sue out an elegit,
and that it was competent to them to do so without any preliminary step whatever. It follows, that as the year and day
had not elapsed when the deeds of trust were executed, the
United States had at that time the capacity to sw out.an
elegit, and are consequently entitlea to the benefit of their
,lien arising from their judgment.
In a case depending-exclusively on the construction giien

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Morrison et al.]

by the courts of Virginia to a statute of that state, it is not
deemed necessary to extend further remarks.
Mr Barbour, for the appellees, relied on the following
points. 1. That the three deeds created specific and perfected liens on the property-therein conveyed, and that the
levy of the several executions created the like liens on the
property on which they were levied; which could not be displaced by any statutory priority of the United States, since
that priority is not, of itself, equivalent to a lien. Conard vs.The Atlantic Insurance-Company, I Peters, 386.
2. That the judgment of the United States, though it
might havd created a lien which would have been available
if an elegit had been issued within the year, or an election
entered on the record within that time, to charge the goods
and half the land, yet neither of these having been done, it
gave the United States no lien as against purchasers or incumbrancers. Eppes vs.Randolph, 2 Call, 125,.85. I Peters,
386.
3. Although a fieri facias was issued within the year,
yet three years having elapsed after it was issued, within
whici time the liens ofthe appellees were created, and before
the next execution issued, that could not properly issue
without a scire facias, the effect of which would be prospective only:-and the first fieri faciasg having been su§pended by order of the agent of the treasury, the United States
lost,. by this interference and indulgence, any benefit they
might bave derived for having issued the execution.
He said it was conceded that if a debtor to the United
States made a general. assignment ot his estate, as in the
case before the court, they would be entitled to a preference ovdr: all the other creditors; whatever might be the
.dignity of. their debts, unless those creditors have some
specific lien upon his property. But when that specific lien
existed, he contended the claim of the United States to a
priority of payment cannot be sustained.
It must be admitted, that where any bona fide and absolute conveyance is made. the-property passes so as to defeat
the priority.- It hag-been'supposed that the case of ThellusVOL. IV.-R

SUPREME COURT.
[United States s. Morrison et al.]

son vs. Smith, 2 Wheat, 396, had decided that such would
not be the effect of an absolute conveyance or prior lien.
But this court, in Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance Company, I Peters, 386, have said, that the case of Thellusson vs.
Smith has been greatly misunderstood at the bar; and they"
affirm the law to be as has been now stated. They say," if before the right of preference has accrued to the United States
the debtor, has made a bona fide conveyance of his estate to
a third person, or has mortgaged the same to secure a debt;
or if his property has been seized* under a fieri facias, the
property is divested out of the debtor, and cannot be made
liable to the United States. The court refer to the United
States vs. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 356, 1 Condens. Rep. 421; and
the United States vs. Hoe, 3 Cranch, 73, 1 Condens. Rep.
-322;for the same principles.
From these authorities it is asserted, that the United States
have no right to priority of payment, by force of the statute,
over any creditors having specific and perfected liens. If this
principle'be true, there is at once an end of the question in this
case, in the first aspect of it; because "some of the appellees
have that specific lien by virtue of deedsof trust duly executed, and others by executions actually levied on" Morrison's property, before the .execution of the assignment in
October 1823; and therefore, although the claim of the United
States to priority is established by that deed, yet the specific
liens have intercepted any thing from passing into the hands
of the assignee to be derived from the property subject to
these liens, unless there should be a surplus after their
discharge.
But: If they can claim no priority by force of the statute, then the inquiry is, can they claim the same by virtue
of their judgment merely !. It will at once occur to the
court that the judgment, as such, under no circumstances
could create any lien on the personal property of Morrison,
"and only on half his lands; so that this aspect of the question has reference only to a supposed lien upon one half of
the land.
It is conceded that the judgment created a lien on the
land ; -whichi, had it been consummated in proper time, and

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Morrison et al.]

in a proper mode, would have been available against the
claims of the appellees. The nature of the interest of 'a
judgment creditor in the land of his debtor is very distinctly
stated by the court in the case of Conard vs. The Atlantic
Insurance Company, I Peters, 443.
From, this authority it fully appears, that, as it respects
other persons, the judgment gives no available lien unless
it is consummated by a levy on the land, and by following
up the steps of the law.
Let us now see what are-those steps in Virginia, which are
essentially necessary to this consummation! In'that state
the only execution which can issue against the land is the
writ of elegit, by virtue of which one moiety is extended.
In 2 Call, 125, and especially in 186, .187, it is distinctly
said by the court of appeals what a judgment creditor must
do in order to preserve his lien. He must either issue his
elegit within the year, or enter on the roll, as in England, or
in the record book here, that he elects to charge the goods
and half of the land, which would be equal to issuing
the elegit.
If he does neither, he may on motion be allowed to enter
the election nune pro tune; but in the latter case, if there
has been an intervening purchaser, the motion will be denied
on the principle of relation.
.A scire facias may indeed be.issued to revive the judgment, but that will operate perspectively, not so as to avoid
mesne alienations here. Now let us try the case before the
court by the standard here laid down.
The judgment was obtained in April 1822, and not only was
no elegit issued within the year, but none has ever been issued;
nor has there ever been an entry on. the record book of an
election to charge the goods and half the land. Here then
is an entire absence of both the requisites, the one or the
other of which is declared to be a sine qua non to the preservation of the lien created by the judgment.
It is true that all the deeds in favour of the other creditors of Morrison were executed,.%nd all the executions were
levied within the year after the rendition of the judgment;
and if therefore the elegit had been issued, or the election

SUPREME COURT.
[United'States vs. Morrison et a].]

had been entered within the year,,it would have had relation
back to the date of the judgment, and have overreached
the subsequent liens of the deeds and executions. But neither of these things having been done, we have the authority of the court of appeals for saying that the lien created
by this judgment overreached nothing.
The doctrine of this case is supported as well by principle as authority. Let us examine the origin of a lien attributed to a judgment. At common law, a judgment did
not bind the lands. The lien is the creature of this co,!rt,
derived by construction from the statute of Edward, which
gives to the creditor the election to take half the lands; the
court holding purchasers to constructive notice of the judgment.
But it is a rule of law, that after twelve months and a day
the judgment shall be presumed to be satisfied; so that when
that time is suffered to elapse, the paity is put to his scire
facias to remove the presumption, before he can issue his
execution. 3 Black. Comm. 41. The purchaser then acting
on the presumption produced by the laches of the creditor,.
it surely is more reasonable that the creditor whose negligence produced a loss should bear it, than the purchaser, to
whom it is not imputable.
The common law principle is supported by the Virginia statute, which, in terms, authorises the creditor to issue execution within the year. In confirmation of this reasoning, cited
Gilbert on Executions, 12. 2 Call, 142. If in a real action,
where the land itself is recovered, and the demandant suffers the year to elapse without execution, the purchaser is
protected; the reason is much stronger where money only
is recovered, and other executions may" issue than those
which affect the land.
The reason of the doctrine in the case of Eppes vs. Randolph, requiring either the actual issuing of an elegit within
the year, or the entry on the record book of an election to
do so, is rendered manifest by seeing the beneficial results
which flow from it. The purchaser by these means has fair
notice given to him of the intention of the judgment creditor to consummate his lien. This notice is ample to put him

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Morrison et al.]

on his guard, and is to every essential purpose equivalent to
the notice which is given by the recording of a prior deed.
This case, with the reasoning' on which it is founded, would
seem to be conclusive against the second ground assumed
by the United States; the claim to a priority by virtue of
their judgment.
But it is supposed that the case of Coleman vs. Cooke, '6
Randolph, 618, is in-conflict with the case of Eppes vs.'Randolph. The court in that case decided, that after a fieri fa-.
cias leVie'd and returned in part, an elegit may be issued
without -pursuing the fieri facias to a return of nihil ; and that
a creditor thus situated is cohapetent to maintain a suit in
chancery, for the purpose of vacating fraudulent conveyances. They do not, however, decide any thing on the
subject of lien, as between a judgment creditor and a bona
fide purchaser: on the contrary, they refer to the case of
Eppes vs. Randolph, and the decision in this case; and distinguish them from that, by saying that these cases proceed
upon their r~spective merits, and not upon the question
of jurisdiction; and whether right or wrong, do not touch
the case under consideration.
As to the case of Fox vs. Rootes et al. in which it is said,
the whole of the principles claimed by the appellants have
been settled in their favour; it may be observed, that the case
is not reported, and that we have no statement of the facts of
the case, so as to enable the court to judge of their bearing
and application; and the point decided may be differently understood from what it would be and ought to be. The case
seems to have been decided before Coleman vs. Cooke, and
it is therefore obvious that it cannot apply tW that case;-as
if it had, that case would have superseded the necessity of
most of the discussion in the case of Coleman vs. Cooke.
In the case of Fox vs. Rootes, the cases of Coleman vs.
Cooke, and Eppes vs. Randolph were referred to, and not
'overruled, but distinguished from them. Such a decision as
is supposed, would be against the justice of the case; against
the settled rules in Eppes-vs. Randolph, and against the opinion of this, court in Conard vs. The Atlantic Insurance
Company, I Peters, 443.

SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Morrison et al.]

Great injustice would be done to innocent purchasers by
holding their purchases to be overreached by a lien after a
year, against their presumption. So, too, it would have the
effect of making estates unalienable for twenty years; for no
man would be safe in laying out money on land. A scire facias is required by the statute, where no execution has been
issued.
If the lien did not, per se, overreach the judgment, then it
cannot be sustained that this effect was produced by the execution of that judgment. The fieri'facias issued in*1822 was
suspended until 1825. Another fieri facias was issued which
was returned nulla bona. It has been shown that an execution imust, in the first instance, issue within a year and a day,
or none. can issue without a scire facias. Upon principle
then, it would seem to follow that after one execution issued
within the year, and more than a year elapsed before a second,
in like manner there must be a scire facias; and so it is decided, that even after a xenewal by a scire facias, if no executon is issued within a year, there must be another scire facias.
Tidd's .Practice, 1008. But executions may be .continued
down.regularly by intermediate continuances, and then another might issue after a year. - 1 Strange, 100. 2 Wilson, 82.
6 Bac. 107. The next step was to allow the party to enter the
continuances at any time, and ihis, although a legal fiction,
was well enough between the parties to tie suit; but thisL
fiction of law is always applied to promote justice; and accordingly the court say, in Eppes vs. Randolph, that whilst a
motion may be made to enter an election of one elegit nunc
pro tune, it will not be allowed so as to affect intermediate
purchasers. Cited Tidd, 1003, 4.
Again, the first execution was suspended in its operation
before the levy, by order of the treasury; and the greater portion of the liens-were created before the second issued. This
seems to bring the case within the principle of the cases in
I Wilson, 44.. 2 John, 418. 3 Cowen, 272; that wherever
a plaintiff in a first execution grants indulgence to the defendant by a delay of execution or sale, the property becomes
liable to a second execution.
Now if an execution actually levied loses its lien by this

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Morrison -et al.]

indulgence, surely one never levied, in consequence of an
agreement for indulgence, cannot have the effect of continuing a lien, and that too upon real estate, which in its nature
applies only to personal estate.
The decision in the first case proceeds on the ground
that thejudgment creditor shall not, by indulgence to -the
defendant, save his property from other creditors; so he
ought not t6 be allowed to grant that indulgence by a delay
which deceives purchasers and indeed involves them in loss.
He ought not to be allowed to retain a more general lien
produced by judgment, when he extends to the defendant
an indulgence; which, in case of a specific 1ien produced by
the. actual levey of the fieri facias, would- be sufficient to'
divest it, and subject the property to other executions.
Afterwards, on a subsequent day of the term, Mr Barbour
stated that he had received a transcript of a decree made by
the chancellor of the Richmond district, affirming the prin
ciple of Eppes vs. Randolph, which was made in March 1828.
He also asked the attention of the court to the dates in
Coleman vs. Cooke, 6 Randolph, 619; from which he said it
appeared that on the 19th of February 1819 the original
decree-was made, upon which an execution issued, on which
a part only of the money decreed being made; the bill was
filed February 1820, and of course therefore within the-year.
The question, as to the effect Qf the lapse of more than a
year, did not therefore arise; and the court say, in p. 630 of
the report, that at the time when the bill was filed, the
plaintiffs had an existing capacity to sue out elegits upon
their decrees, which might well be, consistently with the case
of Eppes vs. Randolph, the year not having then elapsed.
Mr Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The single .question in this case is, whether the United
States, or certain other creditors of the defendant, John
Morrison, have the prior lien on lands of the said Morrison
which have been conveyed to those creditors.
In October 1819, the United States obtained a judgment
against John Morrison in the district court of Virginia, on

SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Morrison et al.]

which a fieri facias issued. The goods taken in execution
were restored to the debtor according to the law of Virginia,
and a bond taken with a condition to have them forthcoming
on the day and place of sale. This bond being forfeited,
an execution was awarded thereon by the judgment of the
district court, on the 2d of April 1822. A fieri facias was
issued on the second judgment, the return on which was, that
the costs were made, and all further proceedings suspended
by order of thd agent of the treasury department. The conveyances under which the defendants claim were dated in
February and March 1823. The United States contend
that the judgment of April 1822 created a lien on these
lands which overreaches these conveyances.
There is no statute in Virginia which, in eipress terms,
iakes a judgment a lien upon the lands of the debtor. As
in England, the lien. is the consequence of a right to take
out an elegit. During the existence of this right, the lien is
universally acknowledged. Differentopinions seem at different times to have been entertaindd of the effect of any suspension of the right.
The statute concerning executions enacts, that " all persons
who have recovered or shall hereafter recover any debt, damages or costs in any court of record, may at their election prosecute writs of fieri facias, elegit, and capias ad satisfaciendum
within the year, for taking the goods, lands and body of th6
debtor." The third section provides that when any writ of
execution shall issue,'and the party at whose suit the same
is issued shall afterwards desire to take out another writ of
execution at his own proper costs and charges, the clerk
may issue the same, if the first be not returned and executed;
and where. upon a capias ad satisfaciendum, the sheriff shall
return that the defendant is not found, the clerk may issue a
fieri facias, and he shall return that the party hath no goods,
or that only part of the debt is levied, in such case it shall be
lawful to issue a capias ad satidfaciendum on the same judgment; and where part of a debt shall be levied upon an
elegit, a new elegit shall issue for the residue; and where
nihil shall be retuhiled upon any writ of elegit, a capias ad
satisfaciendnm or fieri facias may issue, and so vice versa.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[United States vs. Mordison et al.]

By the construction put by the circuit court on this section, the party who" had sued out a fieri facias could not resort
to an elegit, until the remedy on the fieri facias was shown by
the return to be exhausted. The United States had sued out
a fieri facias on the judgment of April 1822; and the remedy
on that writ was not exhausted in February and-March 1823,
when the deeds of trust under which the defendants' claim
wereexecuted. In theopinion of that court, the United States
could not, at the date of those deeds, have sued out an elegit.
As the lien is the mere consequence of the right to take out
an elegit, that court was of opinion that it did not overreach
a conveyance made when this right was suspended.
A case was soon afterwards decided in-the court of appeals,
in which this question on the execution law of the state was
elaborately argued and deliberately decided. That decisi n
is; that the right to take out an elegit is not suspended by'
suing out a writ of fieri facias, and consequently, that the
lien of the judgment continues pending the proceedings onthat writ. This court, according to its uniform c6urse,
adopts that construction of the act which is inad!e by the
highest court'6f the state. The decree therefore is to be
reversed and annulled, and the cause remanded to the circuit court, that its decree may be reformed, as is required.
by this opinion.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the circuit court of the United States for the
fifth circuit, and district of East Virginia,.and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, this court is of opinion,
that the claim of the United States to the lands conveyed
by the deeds of February and March 1823, under the lien
created by their judgment of April 1822, ought to have
been sustained, and that so much of the decre.e of the said
circuit court as dismisses the original and-amended bill of
the plaintiffs, so far as it claims to charge the-property conveyed. by the deed of trust-of the 14th_4f'February, "in the
year 1823, from John Morrison to James A. Lane and. William Ward, and by the deed of the 21st of February, in
VOL. IV.-S

138

SUPREME COURT.
[United States vs. Morrison et al.]

the year 1823, from John Morrison to James W. Ford, and
by the deed of the 9th of March, in the year 1823, from the
said Morrison to Inman Horner, is erroneous, and ought to
be reversed. This court doth therefore reverse the said'
decree, as to so much thereof, and doth remand the cause
to-the court of the United States for the fifth circuit and
district of Virginia, with directions to reform the said decree
so far as it is hereby declared, to be erroneous, and to affirm
the lien of the United States on the lands in the said deed
mentioned. All which is ordered and decreed accordingly.

