JANUARY TERM 1830.

IsmR.NCE ComeA.,
or ALEXAijiDIA, P.LAINTIFFS IN ERROR v8. Asnsy AND STRI1LINO, DEFENDANTS.

THa CoL~mTsE

Action on a policy of ins,;'ance on the brig Hope, from Alexandria to Barbadoes,
and back to the United States. On the outward voyage, the Hope put into
Hampton Roads for a harbour during an approaching storm, and was driven on
shore above high water mark. A survey was held, and she was recommended
to be sold for the benefit of all concerned. The assured abandoned, and there
was no pretence but that the injury which the vessel had sustained justified
the abandonment. The question in the case was, whether, by the acts of the
assured, the abandonment had not been revoked.
There can be no doubt but that n revocation of an abandonment before accepted
by the underwriters may be int Cd from the conduc' of the assured ; if his
acts and interference with the use v d management of the subject insured be
such as sattsfact6rily to show that hemaended to act as owner, and not for the
benefit of the underwriters. But this is always a question of,intention, to ba
collected from the circumtances of the case, and belongs to the jury as matter of fact ; and is not to be decided by the court, as matter of law. [143] .
In the case of the Chesapeake Insurance company vs. Stark, 6 Cranch, 272, this
court lays down the general rule, thaC if an abandonment be legally made, it
puts the underwriter completely in the place of the assured ; and the agent
of the latter becomes the agent of the former, and that the acts of the agent
interfering with the subject insured will not affect the abandonment. But tile
court takes a distinction between the acts of an agent arnd the acts of the
assured. That in the latter case, any acts of ownership by the owner himself
might be construed into a relinquishment of the abandonment, which had not
been accepted.
But the court In that case did not say, and we think did not mean to be considered as intimating that every such actrof ownership must necessarily, and
under all possible ,circumstances be construed into a relinquishment of an
abandonment. The practical operation of so broad a rule.would be extremely
injurious. [144]

ERROR from the circuit court of the county of Alexandria, in the district of Columbia.
This was an action on thp case brought by Ashby and
Stribling against the Columbian Insurance Company of
Alex.-ndria, on q policy of insurance on the brig Hope, on a
voyage from Alexandria, to and at Barbadoes and back to
the United States ; the vessel valued at three thousand dollars, and the sum insured being one Ihousand dollars. The
loss was stated to be, "ihat while the vessel was proceeding
on her voyage, and before her arrival at Barbadoes, she was,

SUPREME-COURT.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Ashby and Stribling.]

by storm and peril of the sea, sunk, and wholly lost to the
plaintiffs, and did not arrive at Barbaddes." The declaration
also aVers, that the plaintiffs did in due time and form abandon the vessel to the defendants.
The facts of the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
court; and the only question before the court was, whether
on the evidence laid before the jury, it was competent for the
jury to infer, and they ought to infer that Stribling, one of
the assured, for himself.and his partner, Ashby, had revoked
the abandonment made, as stated, to the insurance company.
Mr Jones, for the plaintiffs in error, contended; that
the conduct of Mr Stribling was a revocation of the abanment. The persons on board a vessel which may be wrecked
are the agerts of the assured and the owners ; but this does
not exclude the insurers from interfering, and if they think
proper, from taking charge of the property; and if the party
insured comes in and resists the authority of the assurers, he
resumes the title to the property, and the assurers are discharged. Cited, Chesapeake Insurance Company vs. Stark,
6 Cranch, 268.
In this case, the agent of the insurance company was at
ihe place where the vessel was wrecked, and was ready to do
every th:ng for the safety of the property, and to get it off.
This was prevented by the sale made by the direcions of the
assured, and against the wish of their ugent.
If the owner or master of a'vessel does acts wholly inconsistent with the rights of the assured, it is a waiver of the
abandonment. 2 Marsh. on Insurande, 614, and cases there
cited.
Mr E. J. Lee and Mr Swann, for the defendants in error;
denied that after the abandonment was made, the insurance
-company acted in relation to the property assured. The
agent of the company left Alexandria before the abandonment was received- by the company; and no authority was
transmitted to him at Norfolk after the same. All hih acts
were therefore without warrant from the company.
In his letter offering to advance money to get off the yes-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Ashby and Stribling.]

sel, tile liability of the insurance company for the loss was
expressly reserved. He did not order the sale of the vessel
to be stopped for the plaintiffs in error.
This court on examining the evidence will say, it was
not such as the jury should have considered sufficient to
show that the abandonment was withdrawn or revoked. The
whole of the conduct "of Mr Stribling was, in the situation
in which he stood, perfectly proper; and'the evidence of
the auctioneer shows that to have been the case, and that
after the sale had commenced he did no more than express'
an opinion. Cited, Phillips on Ins. 407. 5 Serg. & Rawle,
506.
Mr Jones, in reply, contended ; that the sending of 'the
agent of the insurers to Norfolk, was evidence of authority,
and that the reservation in the letter addressed by him. t,
the auctioneer, was only to operate if the vessel shoulc
be saved, and be put in a situation to proceed on the voyage insured.
Mr Justice THomPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case comes up on a writ of error to the circuit court
'of the district of Columbia for the county of Alexandria.
It is an action upon a policy of insurance bearing date the
28th of May 1825, on the -brig Hope, on a voyage from
Alexandria to Barbadoes, and back to a port in the United
States. The vessel is valued at three thousand dollars, and
the sum insured is one thousand dollars.
The loss as alleged in the declaration is, that the vessel,
whilst proceeding on her voyage, and before her arriial at
Barbadoes, was by storm and peril of the seas sunk and
wholly lost to the plaintiffs. ' The whole evidence is spread
out upon the record; and upon which the defendants' counsel
prayed the court to instruct the jury that it was competent for
them to infer, and that they oUght to infer from the evidence,
that the plaintiffs had revoked the abandonment which they
had made to the defendants; which instruction the court refused to-give, and a bill of exceptions was duly taken to such
refusal. And whether the court erred in refusing to give the
instruction prayed, is the only question in the case.

SUPREME COURT.
- [Columbian Insurance Company vs. Asliby and Stribling.]

From the evidence it appears that captain Brown, the
master of the vessel, put into Hampton-roads, for the purpose of making a harbour and securing his vessel from an
approaching storm, which, from the appearance of the weather, threatened to be very severe. And on the. 5th of.June,
by the violence of the storm, the brig was driven on shore,
above high water mark, near Crany Island. On the next
day a survey was held upon her, and the surveyors, after examining her situation and the injury, she had received, recommended her to be sold for the benefit of all concerned.
And on the 14th of June, Stribling, one of the owners,-being
at Norfolk, sent a letter of abandonment to-the defendants,
which was received by them on the 17th of June. There
was no preterce but that the injury which the vessel hiad
sustained justified the abandonment. But the-question was,
whether such abandonment had not been revoked ; and the
circumstances relied upon to show such revbcation were, that
James Sanderson, the secretary of the Columbian Insurance
-Wpany, arrived at Norfolk on the evening of the .161h of
June, being before th.e letter of abandonment was received
by the-defendants, and on the same evening offered to Stribling, one of the plaintiffs, to supply the money necessary to
get the vessel off. And two days afterwards he made the
same offer to James D. Thorborn, the agent of the plaintiffs;
stating that he had come to Norfolk at the request of the
defendants, and to take such measures as he might think advisable for their interest, and to givb every aid to the owners
of the brig; and he forbid Thorborn and Stribling from proceeding in the sale, which was then about to take place
according to an adver.tisement which had been previously
published in the Norfolk papers. But Stribling, on consultation with Thorborn, directed the sale to be continued. The
refusal of Stribling to accept the offer of Sanderson to supply the money necessary to get the vessel 6ff, and proceeding
in the sale after being forbid by Sanderson, are the acts
alleged to have constituted a revocation of the abandonment.
The instruction prayed for to'the jury ought not in its full
extent to have been given, unless the evidence was-such as

JANUARY TERM im3o.

143

[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Ashby and Stribling.]

it judgm.nt of law amounted to a revocation of the ubanment. If the court had only- been requested to instruct the
jury, that they might from the evidence infer a revocation,
the prayer would not have been so objectionable. But a positive direction, that they ought to infer such revocation,
would have been going beyond what could have been required of'tie court, under the evidence in the cause. There
can be no doubt but that the revocation of an abandonment
before accepted by the underwriters, may- be inferred from
the conduct of the assured; if his acts and interference with
the use and management of the subject insured be such as
satisfactorily to show that he intended to act as Owner, and
not for the-benefit of the underwriters. But this is always
aquestion of intention, to be collected from the circumstances of the case, and belongs to the jury as matter of
fact; and is not to be decided by the court as matter of law..
We do not however, in the present case, see any evidence
which would have fairly warranted the jury in finding that
the abandonment had been revoked. The injury was suchas to occasion almost an actual total loss of the vessel; and
there could have been no possible inducement for the assured
to revoke the abandonment. There is no evidence to justify
the conclusion that Stribling was acting for his own benefit,
and not for that of the underwriters. The assured*by operation of law, became, after the abandonment, the agent of
the underwriters, and was bound to use his utmost 'endeavours to rescue from destruction as much of the property as
he could, so as to lighten the burthen which was to fall on
the underwriters. The assured had received no information from the underwriters, whether they accepted or refused the abandonment. Nor did Sanderson, who professed
to act as their agent, communicate any information to Stribling on that subject ; and it would seem from the testimony
of Thorborn, that the conduct of Sanderson was calculated
to cast some suspicion upon his motives. He says "he then
thought, and still thinks, the course pursued by him must
have been designed to perplex and embarrass the persons
who were engaged in the management of the affairs of the
vessel ; since his letter was not delivered until the sale had

SUPREME COURT.
[Columbiaji Insurance Company vs. Ashby 4nd Stribling.]

commenced, and no authority was shown by him ffom the
defendants to make arrangemenis for getting the vessel off,
or to defray the expense that.had already been incurred on
her account." Although Stribling knew Sanderson, as secretary of the Colombian Insurance Company, he could not
.hereby know that he was clothed with authority to bind the
company by whatever arrangement he should make. His
authority as secretary did not clothe him with any such
power. It is true Stribling did not demand of him to show
his authority from the company, and this might be considered as open to the conclusion that such authority was admit"ted ; but all this was matter for the consideration of the jury,
and the court could not assume that he was or was not
authorised to bind the underwriters.
In the case of the Chesapeake Insurance Company vs.
Stark, 6 Cranch, 272, this court lays down the general
rule, that if an aba ndonment be legally made, it puts the
underwriter completely in the place of the assured, and the
agent of. the latter becomes the agent of tie former; and
that the acts of the agent, interfering with the subject insured, will not affect the abandonment. But the "court takes
a distinction between the acts of -an agent, and the acts of
th6 assured; that in the latter case, any acts of ownership,
by the owner himself might be construed into a relinquishment of an abandonment, which had not been accepted. *
The court in that case did not say, and we think did not
mean to be understood as intimating, that every such act
of ownership must necessarily, and under all possible circumstances, be construed into a relinquishment of an abandonment. The-practical operation of so broad a rule would
be extremely injurious.
It would -deter owners from interfering at all- for the preservatio.n of the sulbject insured, and leave it to perish for
fear of prejudicing their rights under the abandonment. All
such acts must be judged of from the circumstances of each
case. The quo animo is the crite.rion by which they are to
be tested.
If in this case Stribling, the owner, had become the purchaser of the brig, and had got her off and fitted her up, it

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Ashby and Stribling.]

would have affQrded very strong, if not conclusive evidence
of a relinquishment of the abandonment. But such was not
the fact; and whatever he did, appears to have been done in
good faith, and with a view to the preservation of tl property. But this case is very distinguishable from that of the
Chesapeake Insurance Company vs. Stark. There the underwriters had refused to accept the abandonment, and the
court applied the rule to -that case. T-f such a case the
assured is at liberty to revoke the abandonment. But here
the owner did not know whether the undeirwriters would
refuse or accept the abandonment. No answer had been
received to the letter of abandonment, and the assured was
left in uncertainty as to his right of revocation. We think,
therefore, that there was no act of ownership exercised by
Stribling, which, the law would pronounce a revocation of
the abandonment, or which called upon the court below o
instruct the jury that they ought to infer a revocation from
any such acts.
The other circumstance relied upon is; that Sanderson,
who professed to act asthe agent of the underwriters, offered to supply the money necessary to get the vessel off, and
put her in a situation to pursue the voYage.
What effect this offer would have had upon tile right of
the assured to abandon, until the experiment to get off the
vessel had been tried, provided such offer had been unconditional and made before the abandonment, either by the
underwriters themselves, or by an agent fully authorised for
that purpose, is a question upon which we give no opinion;
the case does not require it. The authorities on this point
do not appear to be in perfect harmony. 6 Mass. Rep. 484.
5 Serg. & Rawle, 509. 3 Mason, 27. 2 Term Rep. 407.
2 Wash. C. C. Rep. 347.
The present case however is not accompanied with these
circumstances. The abandonment here had actually been
made, before the offer to pay the expenses of.getting off the
vessel; and no answer from the underwriters had been received, nor did Sanderson undertake to decide that question
for them. Although he piofessed to act as the agent of the
andcrwriters, he showed no authority for that purpose, and

VOL. IV.-T

SUPREME COURT.
.[Columbian Insurance Company vs. Ashby and Stribling.1

one of the witnesses swears, that he thought the course pursued by him was designed to perplex the proceedings in relation to the vessel; arid his letter to Thorburn, making the
offer of the money, has this condition : ",I reserve to the
c6mpany all right of defence, in case they should not be liable for any part of the expenses attending the business.
Under such circumstances, it is very clear the assured could
not be required to waive an abandonment, which from any
thing that he knew might, at that time, have been accepted;
in a case too where there was a clear and undeniable right
to abandon.
The court below did not therefore err in refusing to instruct the jury, that they ought to infer from the evidence
that the abandonment had been revoked. The judgment
must be affirmed.

This cause came an to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the district court of the United States for the
district of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the .judgment of the said circuit courtin this cause be, and the same
is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of six
per centum per annum.

