THE DECISIONS.OF

THE SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

JANUARY TERM 1830.

-JAJEsSCARVzR, PLA:x inrr IN ERRoR vs. JAMES JACKSON, ON THE
DEI.SE OF JOHN JACOR ASTOR, THEoDOsIUs FOwL.ERi CADWAL:
xAVRit D. CoLDrN, CORELiuS J. BOGET, H -myGAGE Moixs,
MA.i i Monius, Tnox.s Hin-s ANi JoiN HmNs, DEFNDA.NTS

IN

ERntOR

The practice of briiging the whole of the charge of the court delivered to the jury
in the court below for review before this court,'is unauthorised, and extremely
inconvenient, both to the inferior and to the appellate court. With the charge
of the court to the'jury upon mere matters of fact, and with its'commentaries
upon the weight of evidence, this court has nothing to do. Observaiions of
that nature are understood to be addressed to the jury, merely for their con.
sideration as the ultimate judges of the matters of fact; and are entitled to nc
-more weight or importance than the jury in the exercise bf their own judg.
ment choose to give them. They neither are, nor are understood to be, binding
on them, as the trueand conclusive exposition of the evidence. If, in summing
up the evidence to thejury, the court should mistate the law, that would just
ly furnish a ground for an exception. But the exception should be strictly confined to that mistatement; and by being made known at-the moment, would
often enable the court to correct an erroneous expression, so as to explain or
qualify it in such manner as to make it wholly unexceptionable, or perfectly
distinct. [SO]
The plaintiff claimed title under a marriage settlement purporting to be.executed

VOL. IV.-A

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]
the 13th of January 1758, by an indenture of release between Mary Philipse,
of the first part, Roger Morris, of the second part, and Joanna Phllipse and
Beverly Robinson, of the third part. Whereby, in consideration of a marriage
intended to be solemnized between Roger Morris and Mary Philipse, &c. R. M.
and M. P. granted, &c. to J. P. and B. R. "in their actual possession now
being, by virtue of a bargain and sale to them thIereof made for one whgle year,
by indenture bearing date the day next before the date of these presents, and
by force of the statute for transferring uses into possessions, and to their heirs,
all those," &c. upon certain trusts therein mentiond. This indenture, signed
ind sealed by the parties, and attested by the subscribing witnesses to the sealing and delivery thereof, with a certificate of William Livingston, one of the
witnesses, and the execution thereof before a judge of the supreme court of the
state of New York, dated the 5th of April 1787, and of the recording thereof
in the secretary's office of New York, was offered in evidence by the plaintiff,
and objected to, on the ground that the certificate of the execution waS not
lega, and competent evidence, and did not entitle the plaintiff to read the deed
without proof of its execution. A witness was sworn, who proved the hand
wriiing of William Livingston, and of the other subscribing witness, both of
whom were dead. The ceitificate of the judge of the supreme court of New
York stated, that William Livingston had sworn before him, that he saw the
parties to the deed, "sign and seal the indenture, a nd deliver it as th r and
each of their voluntary acts and deeds," &c. .By the Court. According to
the laws of New York, there Wds sufficient prima facie evidence of the due
execution of the indenture ; not merely of the signing and sealing, but of the
de.ivery, to justify the court in admitting the deed to be read to thd jury;
and that in the absence of all controlling evidence, thi jury would have been
bound to find that the deed was duly executed. [82]
The plaintiff, in the ejectment, derived title under the deed of marriage settlement ofthe 15th of January 1758, executed by Mary Philips , who afterwards
intermarried with Roger Morris, and by Roger Morris and"certain trustees
named in the same. The premises, before the execution of the deed of marriage settlement, were the property of Mary Philipse, in fee simple. T:.e defendant claimed title to the same premises undet a sale made thereof, 'as the
p- 3perty of Roger Morris and wife, by certain commissioners acting under the
authority of an act of the legislature of New York, passed the 22d of October
1779, by which the premises were directed to be sold, as the property of Roger
Morris and wife, as forfeited, Roger Morris and wife having been declared to
:be convicted and attainted of adhering to the enemies of the United States.
Not only is the recital of the lease in the deed of marriage settlement evidence
between the original parties to the-same, of the existence of the lease; but
betwen the parties to this case, the recital is conclusive evidence of & same,
and superseded the necessity of introducing any other evidence to establish
it. [83)
The recital of the lease in the deed of release in the present case, was conclusive
evidence upon all persons claiming under thie parties in privily of estale, as
those In this case claim. And, independently of authority, the court would
have arrived at the same conclusion upon principle. [88]
As to the law of estoppels. [83]
Leases like other deeds and grants may be presumed from long possession, which
cannot otherwise be explained; and undei such cirdumstances, a recital in an
old deed, of the fact of such a lease having been executed, is certainly pre-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Cirver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]
sumptive proof or stronger in favour of such possession under title, than the
nalred'presumption arising from a mere unexplained possession. [84]
Thi uses declared in a deed of marriage settlement were; to and for the use
of "Joanna Philipse and Beverly Robinson, (the relebsees), and their heirs,
until the solemnization of the said intended marriage; and from and- immediately after the solemnization of the said intended marriage, then to the use
and behoof of the said Mary Philipse and Roger Morris, and the burvivor of
them, for and during the time of their natural lives, without impeachment of
waste; and from and after the determination of that estate, then to the use
and behoof of such child or children, as shdll or may be procrebted between
them, and to his, her or their heirs and assigns for ever. But in case the
said.Roger Morris and Mary Philipse shall have no child or children begotten
between them, or.that such child or children shall happen to die during the life
time of the said Roger and Mary, and the said Mary should survive the said
Roger, without issue, then to the use and behoof of her, the said Mary Philipse, and her heirs and assigns forever.. And in case the said Roger should
survive the said Mary Philipse, without any issue by her, or that such issue
is then dead, without leaving issue, then after the decease of the said Roger
Morris, to the only use and behoof of such person or persons, and in such
manner and form as the said Mary Philipse shall, at any time during the said
intended marriage, desire the same by her last will and testament, &e. &c.
The marriage took effect, children were born; all before the attainder of their
parents in 1779. Mary Morris survived her husband, and died in 1825, leaving
her children surviving her. This is a clear remainder in fee to the children of
Roger Morris and wife; which ceased to be contingent on the birth of the first
child, and opened to let in after born children. [902
It is perfectly consistent with this limitation, that the estate in fee might be defeasible, and determinable upon a subsequent contingency; and upon the happening of such contingency, might pass by way of shifting executory use to
other persons in fee, thus making a fee upon a fee. [90]
The general rile of law founded on public policy is, that limitations of this nature
shall be construed to be vested when, and as soon as they may vest. The present limitation in its terms purports to be contingent only until the birth of a
child, and may then vest. The estate of the children was contingent only until
their birth, and when the confiscation act of New York passed, the3' being
all born, it was a vested remainder in them and their. heirs, and not liable to
be defeated by any transfer or destruction of the life estate. [92]
The act of the legislature of New York of May 1, 1786, gave to the purchasers
of forfeited estates the like remedy in case of eviction, for obtaining compensation for the value of their improvements, as is directed in the act of the 12th
of May 1784. The latter act declares, that the person or persons having obtained judgment against such purchaserp, shall not have any writ of po'ssession,
nor obtain possession of such lands, &c. until he shall have paid to the purchaser of such lands, or person holding title under him, the value of all improvements made thereon, after the passing of the act. Held, that claims of
compensation for improvements made under the authority of these acts of the
legislature of New York, are inconsistent with the provision3 of the treaty of
peace with Great Britain, of 1783, and should be rejected. [101]
That in all casesa party is bound by natural justice to pay for im~provements on
land, made against his will, or without his consent, is a proposition which the
court are not prepared to admit. [101]

4

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex demn. Astor et aL.]

THIS was a writ of error to the circuit court of the United
States, for the southern district of New York.
In the circuit court for the southern district of New York,
an action of ejectment was instituted by the defendant in
error, fori the -recovery of a tract of land in the town of Carmel, in the county of Putnam, in the state of New York.
The plaintiff claimdd title on the demise-of John Jacob Astor and others, named in the case. The action was tried by
a jury at October term 1829, in- the circuit court, in the city
-of.New York, aid. a verdict and judgment rendered for the
plaintiff in the same ;• a bill of exceptions was tendered by
the defendant in the circuit court, who prosecuted this writ
of error.'
After judgment was rendered for the plaintiff in the circuit court, he prayed the courtto order a writ of possesion,
to cause him to have possession of the premises; and thereupon James Carver suggested to the court, that Roger Morris, and Mary Morris his wife, under whom the plaintiff
in ejectment claimed, were for. fifteen years and upwards,
next before the 22d of October 1779; in possession of a
large tract of land in the then county of Dutchess, in the
.state of New York, including the premises. That on the 22d
of October 1779, the legislature of the state of New York,
by "an act for the forfeiture and sale of the estate of persons who have adhered to the enemies of the -state, &c."
declared Roger Morris and'his wife to be convicted and
attainted of adhering to the enemy ; and all their estate,
real and personal, severally and respectively, in possession,
reversion, or remainder, was forfeited and vested in the people of the state. That commissioners appointed under this
act, on the 16th of November 1782, sold, disposed of, and
conveyed.the land in question in this suit, to Timothy Carver, his heirs and assigns, for the consideration of seventy-one.
pounds. That by an act of the legislature of the 12th of
May 1784, and an act of the 1st of May 17$6, it was among
other things provided, that' where judgment in a due course
of law should be obtained for any lands sold by the commissioners of forfeitures,. gainst any'person who derived title
thereto under the people of the state, or the commissioners,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jaclson ex dem. Astor et aL.]

the person who obtained judgment should not have a writ
of possession, or obtain possession of the land, until he or she
should have paid to the person in possession under said
title, the value of all improvements made thereon, t6 be
estimated as provided in the acts. That he, the said Timothy Carver, purchased the property held by him in the full
confidence that he obtained a perfect indefeasible title to
the land in fee simple, entered forthwith into possession of
the same, made great, valuable and permanent improvements
on the land, which are now in value upwards of two thousand dollars, by which the lands are enhanced in value to
that sum and upwards. That Timothy Carver afterwards
conveyed the premises to James Carver, the defendant in
ejectment, who also made other valuable improvements on
the land, before the commencement of this suit, of the value
of two thousand dollars and upwards. That this action has
been commenced and prosecuted, and a recovery has been
had on a ground of title, reciting the same ; that the act of
the legislature of New York, passed the 22d of October 1779,
for the forfeiture of estates, &c. did not take from the plaintiff in the suit the title to the premises, after the death of
Roger Morris and wife, both of whom were deceased at the
time of the institution of this suit. So that the plaintiffs
were the owners of the land in fee, and entitled to recover
the possession of the same. And the defendant insists that,
under the provisions of the seveial acts of the legislature of
New York, he ought to be paid the value -of the improvements made on the lands; that no writof possession should
issue until the same was paid; aid he prays the court to stay
the plaintiff from the writ, or from having possession of the
lands, until the value shall be paid ; and that commissioners
may he appointed to ascertain the said value.
.The plaintiff did not deny the facts alleged by the defendant, but he denied the right of the defendant to be paid for
the improvements, and insisted on his right at law to a writ
of possession, and to the possession of the land without paying the value of the improvements. The court held, that the
matters suggested by the defendant, and adritted by the
plaintiff, were not sufficient to bar or stay the plaintiff from

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et a.]

having his writ of possession, or possession of the land wiihout paying the whole or any part of the value of the improvements estimated or valued in any.way whatever; and
that the plaintiff should have a writ of possession to caus6
him to have possession of the lands.
The bill of exceptions set forth the whole proceedings on
the trial of the cause ; and that an agreement had been entered into by the parties to it, that the plaintiff is not entitled
to the recovery of the property unless it should satisfactorily appear in the suit, in addition tb whatever else may be
necessary to. authorise a recovery therein, that the whote
title, both in'law-or equity, which may or can have been vested
in the children and heirs of Roger Morris and Mary his wife,
of, in or to the premises or lands in question in the suit, has
.been, as between the grantors and grantees, legally transferred to John Jacob Astor, one of the lessors of the plaintiff, his heirs and assigns; nor unless a proper deed of conveyance in fee simple. from John Jacob, Astor and all persons claiming under him to the people of the state of New
York, would be valid and effectual to release, transfer, and'
extinguish all the right, title, and interest, which now is, or
may have been vested in the children and heirs of Roger
Morris and wife.
The plaintiff in the ejectment gave in evidence a patent
from William IIl. to Adolphe Philipse, dated 17th June 1692,for a large tract of land, including the'premises, and proved
the descent of the same to Frederick Philipse ; and that Mary
Philipse, who afterwards intermarried with .Roger Morris,
was a devisee in tail with other children of Frederick Philipse, and by subsequent proceedings in partition, and by a
common recovery, Mary Philipse became seised in fee simple of one equal undivided part of the land granted by the
patent; and that afterwards, on the 7th of February 1754,
a deed of partition, reciting the patent and the title of the
heirs, was executed between the children and devisees and
heirs of Frederick Philipse, by which the portions severally
belonging to them were set apart and divided to each in severalty, one portion being allotted to Mary Philipse ; the
laud in controversy being included in the land surveyed

JANUARY TERM 1830.

7

[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

The part
and held under the patent and deed of partition.
5.
No.
was
partition,
the
in
allotted to Mary Philipse
of
The plaintiff then offered to read in evidence a deed
intended
1758,
January
of
13th
dated
marriage settlement,
of
to convey all the land in No. 5, between Mary Philipse,
Philthe first part, Roger Morris of the second-part, Joanna
back of
ipse and Beverly Robinson of the third part; on the
terms :
which deed was indorsed a certificate in the following
person"Be it remembered that on the 1st day bf April 1787,
one of
ally came and appeared before me, John Sloss Hobart,
the justices of the supreme court of the state of New York,
William Livingston, Esq.,governor of the state of New Jersey,
one of the subscribing witnesses to the within written indendeclare
ture, who being by me duly sworn, did testify and
of thedate
the
of
day
the
that he was present at or about
PhilJoanna
named
within
the
within indenture, and did see
.Philipse,
Mary
and
Morris,
ipse, Beverly Robinson, Roger
their and
sign and seal the same indenture, and deliver it as
and puruses
the
for
deeds,
and
acts
each of their voluntary
inspected
carefully
having
I
and
poses therein mentioned,
the same, and finding no material erasures or interlineations
before
therein, other than those noted to- have been made
recorded.
be
to
same
the
allow
do
thereof,
the execution
also
John Sloss Hobart." Upon the back of the deed was
followindorsed a certificate of the recQrding thereof, in the
state
ing words: "Recorded in the secretary's office of the
November
of New York, in deed book commencing 25th
1787.
1774, page 550. Examined by me this 11th of April
so
evidence,
Robert Harpur, D. Secretary." To which said
the
upon
;
offered, the counsel for the defendant objected
eviground that the certificate was not legal and competent
plainthe
entitle
dence to be given to the jury, and did not
tiff to read the deed in evidence, without proof of its execuas
tion; and that the certificate was not sufficient, inasmuch
swore
or
testified
it did not state that William Livingston
parts
that he was a subscribing witness to the deed. The
are.
case,
the
to
of the deed of t3th January 1758 material
the following:
thirThis indenturb, made the 13th day of January, in the

S

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dern Astor et al.]

ty-first year of the r'eign of our sovereign lord, George 11.
by the grace of God, of Great Britain, France, and Ireland,
king, defender of the faith, &c., and in the year of our Loxd
1758, between Mary Philipse of the first part, major Roger
Morris of the second part, and Joanna Philipse and Beverly
Robinson of the third part, witnesseth, that in consideration
of a marriage intended to be had and solemnized between
the said Roger Morris and Mary Philipse, and the settlement
hereafter made by the said Roger Morris on the said Mary
Philipse, and for and in consideration of the sum of five shillings, current money of the province of New York, by the
said JoannaPhilipse and Beverly Robinson to her, the said
Mary Philipse, at or before the ensealing and delivery of
these presents, well and truly paid, the receipt whereof is
hereby acknowledged; and for divers other good causes and
considerations, her thereunto moving, she, the said Mary
Philipse, hath granted, bargained, sold, released and confirmed, and by these presents doth grant, bargain, sell, release and confirm, unto the said Joanna Philipse and Beverly
Robinson, (in their actual possession now being, by virtue
of a bargain and sale to them thereof made, for one whole
year, by indenture bearing date the day next before the day
of the date of these presents, and by force of the statute for
transferring of uses into possession), and to their heirs, all
those several lots or parcels of land, &c."' describing the
property, in which is included the land in controversy in this
suit.
"To have and to hold all and singular the several lots of
land, &c., and all and singular other the lands, tenements,
hereditaments, and real estate, whatsoever of her the said
Mary Philipse, &c., unto the said Joanna Philipse and Beverly Robinson, and their heirs, to and for the several uses, intents, and purposes, hereinafter declared, expressed, limited-and appointed, and to and for no other use, intent, and
.purpose whatsoever; that it to say, to and fr the use and
behoof of them the said Joanna Philipse and Beverly Robinson, and their heis, until the solemnization of the intended
marriage, 'and to the use and behoof of the said Mary Philipse and Roger Morris, and the survivor of them, for and dur-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dern. Astor et al.]

ing the'term of their natural lives, without impeachment ,of
waste, and from and after the determination of that estate,
then to the use and behoof of such child or children as shall
or may be pr,;. reated between. them, and to his, her, or their
heirs and.assigns for'ever; but in case the said Roger Morris
and Mary Philipse shall have no child or children begotten
between them, or that such child or children shall happen to
die, during the life time of the said Roger and Mary, and the
said Mary should survive the said Roger, without issue, then
to the use and behoof of her, the said Mary Philipse, and her
heirs and assigns for ever; and in case the said Roger Morris should survive the said Mary Philipse, without any issue
by her, or that such issue is then dead without leaving issue,
then, after the decease of the said Roger Morris, to the only
use and behoof of such person or persons, and in such manner and form, as she, the said Mary Philipse, shall, at any
time during the said intended marriage, devise the same by
her last will and testament; which last will and testament,
for that purpose, it is hereby agreed by all the parties, to
these presents, that it shall be lawful for her, at any time
during the said marriage, to make, publish and declare, the
said marriage, or any thing herein contained, to the contrary
thereof in any wise notwithstanding; provided, nevertheless,
and it is the true intent and meaning of the parties.to these
presents, that it shall and may be lawful, to and for the said
Roger Morris and Mary Philipse, jointly, at any time or
times during the said marriage, to sell and dispose of any
part of the said several lots or parcels of land, or of any
other her lands, tenements, hereditaments and real estate
whatsoever, to the value of three thousand pounds, current
money of the province of New York; and in case the said
sum of three thousand pounds be not raised by such sale or
sales. during their joint lives, and they have issue between
thefl, that then it shall be' lawful for the survivor of them to
raise the said 'sum, by the sale of any part of the said lands,
or such deficiency thereof as shall not then have ben already
raised thereout, so as to make up the said full sum of three
thousand pounds, any thing hereinbefore contained to the
contrary thereof in any wise .notwithstanding.
VoL. IV.-B

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et aL]

The court overruled the objection, and alldwed the deed
to be read in evidence, and the counsel for the defendant excepted to the same.
Evidence was then given, by the testimony of Mr Hoffman,
to prove the death of William Livingston and Sarah Williams, who were witrqesses to the deed, and that the names of
those persons. were their proper hand writing. That Mary
Philipse and Roger Morris intermarried, and hid four children, all born before October 1779; also the death of some of
the children; the intermarriage of others; that Joanna Philipse was the mother of Mary Morris and Susanna Robinson,
wife of-Beverly Robinson; that Beverly Robinson died.between 1790 and 1795; that Roger Morris died in 1794, and
his wife Mary Morris died in 1825. Evidence'was also given
to show that Roger Morris was in possession of the premises
from 1771 to 1774.

The plaintiff then gave in evidence a conveyance by lease
and release of the premises, inter alia, by the heirs and legal
representatives of Roger Morris and wife to John Jacob
Astor.
The conveyance by the commissioners of forfeited estates
-o Timothy Carver, of the land, was then given in evidence
by the plaintiffs, and by Timothy Carver and wife to the defendant.
Mr Barclay proved that Roger Morris and his family left
this country for England just before the evacuation of the
city-of New York by the %Britishtroops in 1782 or 1783, and
that neither of them had since returned to the United States.
The plaintiff here rested his case.
And thereupon the counsel of the defendant objected and
insisted, that (independent of any other questions that might
arise upon the plaintiff's case) unless the deed, commonly
called a marriage settlement deed, which had been given in
evidence, was accompanied or preceded by a lease, the plaintiff could not recover in this action: that without such lease,
the deed could only operate as a deed of bargain and sale,
and the statute of uses would only execute the first-use to
the bargainees, Joanna Philipse and Beverly Robinson, who
took the legal estate in the land;. and that the children of

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

the said Roger Morris and his wife took only trust or equitable interests, and not the legal estate in the lands; and
that the plaintiff could not recover, because such lease had
not*been produced, nor its absence accounted for, if one
existed; and of this opinion was the court.
The counsel for the plaintiff then offered fo give evidence
to the court, to prove the loss of the said lease, to lay the
foundation for secondary evidence of its contents, by showing that diligent search for such lease had been made in
various places, without being able to find the same; to which
'evidence the counsel for the defendant objected, on the
ground that such evidence did not go to prove the loss or
destruction of the lease, but to show that none ever existed ;
and that before the plaintiff could give such, or any other
evidence of the loss of the lease, he must prove that a lease
did once exist.
The counsel for the plaintiff then offered to give evidence te
show that diligent efforts had bedn made in England and in the
United States to find the lease, without success; which was objected to by the defendant, on the ground that such evidence
did not go to prove the loss or destruction of the lease, but to
show that none ever existed; and that before such evidence
was given, it must be proved that a lease did once exist.
The'court overruled this objection; considering the recital in
the release prima facie evidence for that purpose, and the
plaintiff gave the evidence. To this decision, in overruling
the objections and admitting the evidence; the counsel for
the defendant excepted.
Testimony was then offered and admitted to prove that it
was the almost universal practice not to record the lease,
when the conveyance was by way of lease and release. -This
evidence was given by the testimony of persons who had
examined the offices of record, and not by that of those who
kept the records. The counsel for the defendant objected
to this evidence, alleging that the facts asserted could only
be proved by the persons who had the custody of the records;
but this objection was overruled, and the same was excepted to.
Here the plaintiff again rested the proofs as to the loss of

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

the lease; and offered to give secondary evidence to the jury
of its previous existence and contents. The:counsel for the
defendant objscted, and insisted that the plaintiff had not
sufficiently proved the loss of thielease, and was not entitled
to go into secondary evidence of its previous existence and
c'ontent .
But the court overruled the objections; and was of opinion
that the plaintiff had, from tile evidence, satisfied the court
as to the loss and non-production of the lease, and was entitled to give secondary evidence of its contents; to which
opinion and decision, the counsel for the defendant also excepted.
The counsel for the plaintiff, for the .purpose of provink
to the jury the existence and contents of the lease, offered
to read in evidence to the court and jury, the recital contained in the said release or marriage settlement deed, of a
lease or bargain and sale for a year; to which evidence so
offered as aforesaid, the counsel for the defendant objected,
on the ground that the said recital was not evidence for
those-purposes against the defendant.
But the court overruled the objections, and permitted the
recital to be read in evidence to the jury, to prove the existence and contents of the lease; to which opinion and decision the counsel for the defendant also excepted.
.The plaintiff then offered, and gave
in evidence, by the testimony of Mr Benson and Mr Troup, that William Livingston,
who had witnessed the deed of release, was an eminent lawyer
in the city of New York, where the deed was executed, and
that it-was the practice at that time to employ lawyers to
draw deeds; that it was usual to recite the lease in the deed
of release; that it was a frequdnf practice in New York to
convey lands by lease and release, until within four years of
the rev6lution; Evidence was also offered and admitted by
the books of record to show what was the usual form.ana
contents of a lease. To all this testimony the counsel for
the defendant excepted.
The printed journal of the house of assembly of New
York, for the year 1787, was then admitted in evidence,
under an exception by the counsel for the defendant, It

JANUARY TERM 1830.

13

[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et a].]

showed that on the 16th of February 1787 a petition had
been presented by Joanna Morris on behalf of herself, her
brothers and sisters, children of Roger Morris and Mary his
wife, relative to the estate forfeited-to the people of the state
of New York by the attainder of their parents, and a report
thereon to the legislature, and here the plaintiff rested his case.
The defendant gave evidence to prove that Timothy Carver; and himself under him, had been in possession of the premises since the close of the revolutionary war, claiming the
same in fee. He also produced and read in evidence, conveyances by way of.lease and release executed by Roger Morris
and wife in 1765,1771, 1773, and other deeds and leases for
parts ofthe lot No. 5, in which no mention was made of the
marriage settlement, and in which the property was de:.
scribed as held under the patent to Adolphe Philipse, and
which Roger Morris and wife covenant "that they had good]
right and full power ana lawful authority to release ani
convey the same in fee." The defendant also gave in evidence the exemplification'of a patent to Beverly Robinson,
Roger Morris and Philip Philipse, dated the 27th of Marcia
1761, in which is recite ' the surrender of paxt of the great
tract granted to Adolphe PiiTips'e on the 11th of June 1696,
the descent of the. whole of the said tract to the children of
Frederic Philipse ; no mention being made in the recitals of
the marriage settlement, and by which patent two tracts of
land, as a compensation for part of the land held under the
original patent, which was supposed to lie within the Connecticut line, was granted.
It was proved, by the evidence of Mr Watts, that he had in
his possession the marriage settlement deed which had been.
read in evidence, at and immediately before the time of its
proof before judge Hobart in 1787; that the witness wrote
the body of the certificate of proof indorsed on the back ;
that the whole, of the said certificate was written by the
witness, except the name of judge Hobart, written at the
bottom, which was written by the said judge; that he believes he wrote the certificate in the presence of the judge,
at the time the proof was made, which was at the house of
said judge, in the city of New York; governor Livingston

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem, Astor et al.]

was then staying at judge Hobaft's house on a visit. On
being shown the said original certificate, the witness said
that a blank was originally left in the body of the said certificate for the name of the judge or officer before whom
the said proof was to be made, and from that circumstance
he had no doubt that the said certificate was written before
he knew what officer would take the said proof, and not in
the presence of the jddge; that the witness received the
said deed early in the said year 1787, in an enclosure from
the said Roger Morris, who was then in Londoni England.
The plaititiff then gave -in evidence, the defendant's excepting thereto, the act of the legislature of the state of
New York, passed April 16th, 1827, entitled '"an act to extinguish the claim of'John Jacob Astor and others, and to
quiet the possession of certain lands in the counties of Putnafn and Dutchess ;" the act passed April 19th, 1828, entitled" an act to revive and amend an act entitled ' an act
.to extinguish the claim of John Jacob Astor and others, and
to quiet the possession of certain lands in the counties of
Putnam and Dutchess.'" Evidence was also given, the defendant's counsel excepting thereto, to show that this suit
was' defended for the state of New York by the attorney general of the state.
The counsel-for the defendant then ghive in evidence an
exemplification of the proceedings of the council of safety of
New York, on the 16th of July. 1776, in which it was resolved- unanimously, that all persons abiding within the
state of New York, and deriving protection from the laws of
the same, owe allegiance to the said laws, and are members
of the state ; and that all persons passing through, visiting
or making a temporary stay in the said state, being eatitied to
the protection of the laws during the time of -such passage,
visitation or temporary stay, owe, during the same time, allegiance thereto: that all persons, membets of. or owing
allegiance to this state as before describel, who shall levy
war against the said state within the samg, or be adherent
to the king of Great Britain, or others the enemies of said
state, and being thereof convicted, shall suffer the pains and
penalties of death.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs.Jackson ex dean. Astor et al.]

The counsel for the defendant also read in evidence-an
act of the legislature of the state of New York, entitled
"an act for the forfeiture and sale of the estates of persons
who have adhered to the enemies of this state, 'and for declaring the sovereignty of the people of this state, in respect
to all property within the same," passed the 22d of October
1779 ; it being admitted by the counsel for both paities, that
Roger Morris, Mary Mforris, the wife of Roger Morris, and
'Beverly Robinson, mentioned in the first section of the act,
are and were the same persons, by those names therein before mentioned ; Beverly Robinson being the person by that
name who was one of the parties to the marriage settlement
deed:
Also an act, entitled "an act- for the 'speedy sale of the
confiscated and forfeited estates i'thirq this .state, and for
other purposes therein mentioned,"' padsed the 12th of May
1784:
Also, "an act farther to amend an act entitled ' an act
for the speedy sale of the confiscated 'and forfeited estates
within this state, and for other purposes therein mentiolied,'"
passed the 1st of May 1786:
Also, "an act limiting tbe period of bringing -claims and
prosecutions against forfeitdd estates," passed the 28th of
March 1797:
Also, "an act for the limitation of criminal prosecutions,
and of actions and suits at law," passed the 2(6th of February
1788 ; aod ."an act for the limitation of" criminal prosecutions, and of actions-at law,"'passed the Sth of April 1801.
The couns-I for'the plaintiff then made'and submitted to
the court in writing, the following points upon which they
relied:
1. Mary Philipsc,- in- January 17.38, was seised in fee
simple.
2. By the 'deed of settlement a contingent remainder was
limited to the children of that- marriage, whicli vce~ted as
soon as they? were born, and no act of Morris or his wife,
done after the execution of that deed, can impair the-estate
of the childrefi.

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

3. The recital of the' lease' in the release, is an estoppel
against the defendant, as to the fact so recited on the ground
of privity of estate.
4. If the recital be not a technical estoppel, theri it is an
admission of a fact in solemn form, by the parties to that
deed, and is evidence of the fact recited, from which the
jury are bound to believe the fact, unless it be disproved.
5. The attainder and sale under it operated as a valid
conveyance of all the estate of the attainted persons at the
date of the attainder, and no more, The purchasers under
this state acquired a title in these lands for the lives of Morris and his wife, and of the survivor of them, and in judgment of law must be considered as standing in the same
relation to the children of that marriage, as the orignal
tenants for life, whose estates wer . confiscated.
6. As the purchasers under the state were tenants for life,
and-the children of Morris and his wife, or their assignees, are
seisediz remainder of the fee, it results from that relation
that the possession of the purchasers could not be adverse to
the title of the remaindermen. The persons entitled to the
remainder have five years from the death of Mrs Morris to
commence their suits for the lahid; and the sale by the remaindermen to Mr Astor, during' the existence of the life
estate, ' in accordance with the rules of the common law,
and-in violation of no statute.
7.The principles of natural law, as well as the treaties
of the 3d of September 1783, and 19th of November 1794,
between the United States and Great Britain, confirm atd
protect the estate so required by Mfr Aszor.
And the counsel for the defendant submitted in writing to
the court the following points on which they relied:
1. That the plaintiff cannot recover in this action, unless
a lease preceded or accompanied the release which has
been read in the case.
2. That the plaintiff, not having offered any evidence of
the actual execution or contents of any particular paper,. as
such lease, cannot recover on the ground that a lease was
executed and is lost.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver s. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

,3. That the testimony df Egbert Benson; Robert Troup,
and the otherwitnesses, as to the custom or practice of conveying by lease and release; the-professional character of
William Livingston, and his connexion with the Philipse
family; although it might, under certain circumstances, be
evidence to lay the foundation for a general presumption,
according to the rdies of law respecting presumptions of
deeds and grants, that a proper lease or other writing, necessary to support the conveyance, bad been executed; is
not competent to prove, either the actual execution, existence in fact, or contents of the alleged lost lease.
4. That no legal presumption of a deed or lease, sch as is
necessary -to enable the plaintiff to support this action, can
fairly arise in this case; because the facts and circumstances
of the case are not such as could. not, according to the ordinary course of affairs, occur without supposing such a1
"deedor lease to have existed ; but are .perfectly consistent'
with the non-existence of such lease.
5. That no possession having been proved in this case,
more consistent with the"title of the plaintiff than with that
of the defendant, any deed or tease, necessary to support
the plainliff's'action, must be proved, and cannot be presumed.
6. That the recitals in the deed of release do not bind
the defendant by way of estoppel ; because he is a stranger
to the deed, and claims nothing under it.
7. That inasmuch as the defendant is not only a stranger
as
to the deed of release, and claims nothing under it, but
engrantor
immediate
defendant's
also it appears that.the
tered into possession of the premises as early as the year
1783, under a claim of title adverse to that supposed to be
created by the said deed or release, and he and the defendant, after and under him, have continued so in possession, under stich adverse claim of title, to the present timea;
the recitals in said deed of release are not evidence against
the defendant.
8. Supposing the lease and release to have been duly executed, then the remainder, limited to the children of Roger
Morris and Mary his wife, was a contingent, and not a vestVOL. IV.-C

is

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

ed remainder, at the time of the ottainder and
banishment
of Roger Morris and Mary his wife, in 1779.
9. By the attainder and banishment of Roger
Morris and
Mary his wife in 1779, they became civilly dead,
and their
estate in the lands determined, before the time
when the
contingent remainder to the children could vest;
and thus
the contingent remainder to the children was
destroyed for
the want of a particular estate to support it:
10. By the attainder and banishment of Beverly
Robinson, the surviving trustee, in 17'79, and the forfeiture
of all
his estate to the people of the state of New York,
tll seisin,
possibility of entry, or scintilla juris in Beverly
Robinson, to
serve the contingent usc when they arose was
divested; and
inasmuch as the estate cannot be seised to uses,
there was
no seisin out of which the uses in remainder could
be served,
when the, contingency upon which they were
to arise or
vest happened ; and the state took the estate
discharged of
all the subsequent limitations in remainder.
I 1.'In consequence of the attainder and banishment
of Beverly Robinson, the surviving trustee, and Roger
Morris and
_Mary his wife, in 1779, and-the forfbiture of all their,
and each
of their estate in the land to the people of the
state of New
York, the children of Roger Morris and Mary his
wife never
had any legal seisin in the land.
12. In consequence of the act of attainder, and
the cinveyance made by'the people of the state of New
York to
Timothy Carver with warranty, the estate of
the children of Roger Morris and Mary his wife, in the lands
in question
in this suit, was defea(ed and destroyed.
13. Roger Morris and Mary his wit, under the
marriage
settlement deed, had an interest in the laid, and
might convey in fee to the amount of three thousand pounds
in value.
They did convey to the amount of onq thousand
dne hundred and ninety-five pounds in value, and the
residue of that
interest was forfeited to, and vested in the people
of New
York; and the power was wbll executed by the
conveyance
of the commissioners of forfeitures to Timothy
Carver, the
defendant's grantor.
14. The whole title, both in law and equity,
which may

JANUARY TERM 1830.

19

[Carver vs. Jacksorr ex dem. Astor et aL]

or can be vested in the children and heirs of Roger Morris
and Mary his wife, of, in and to the lands and premises in
question, has not been, as between the grantors and grantee,
legally transferred to the said John Jacob Astor, -his heirs
and assigns.
15. A proper'deed of conveyance in fee simple from the
said John Jacob Astor, and all persons claiming under him,
to the people of the state of New York, would not be valid.
and effectual to release, transfer, tnd extinguish all right,
title and interest which now is, or may have been vested in
the children and heirs of Roger Morris and Mary his wife.
16. The plaintiff's action is .barred under the act lirnlting the period of bringing claims and prosecutions against
forfeited estates.
17, The plaintiffs action is barred under the general limitation act of 1788, also under the general limitation act of
1801.
Upon which the court expressed the following opinion and
instructions, to be given to the jury on the defendant's points;
under the modifications stated in the same.
1. The court gave the instruction as prayed.
2. It having been satisfactorily proved to the court, that
the lease was lost, its execution and contents may be p'roved
by secondary evidence.
3. That the testihixony of Egbert-Benson, Robert Troup,
qnd other 'witnesses, as to the custom and -practice of conveying by lease or release; the professional charac.ter of
William Livingiton, and his connexion with the Philipse
family, coupled with the recital in*the release; were. adnissible in .this case to go to the -jyry, for them to..determin& whether a proper-lease, necessary to support the conveyance of release so as- to pass the, legal estate, had been
executed.
4. That the jury might in this case presume, if the evidence satisfied them of the fact, that such lease was duly
executed, if in their opinion -the possesion was held by
Roger Morris and his wife, under this marriage settlement
deed, embracing both the lease and release. And that it
was for them to decide from the evidence, whetfier the poss-

__

-

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex demr-Astor et al."

ession was held under the marriage settlement or under
the title of Mary Philipse, anterior to the marriage settlement..
5. The instruction on this point is embraced in the answer
to the fourth.
6. That the recital in the release does not bind the dpfendant by way of estoppel ;" but is admissible evidence to
the jury, connected with the other circumstances, for them
to determine whether a proper lease was made and executed.
7. The instruction on thispoint is included .in the answer
to the sixth.
S. The remainder limited-to the children of Roger Morris and Mary his wife, was a vested remainder at the time
of the attainder and banishment of Roger Morris and Mary
his wife, in the year 1779, and did not thereafter require
any particular estate to support it; but if a particular estate
was necessary, there was one sufficient in this case for that
purpose.
9 and 10. The answer'to these points is included in the
answer to the eighth.
11. The attain"der and banishment of Beverly Robinson,
Roger Morris and Mary his wife, in the year 1779, and the
forfeiture of all their estate in the land to the people of the
state of New York, and the conveyance to Timothy Carver
of the lands in question, did not take away the right which
the children of Roger and Mary Morris had under the. marriage settlement deed.
1.2. The -answer to this point is included in the answer to
the eleventh.
13. Admitting that the power reserved to Morris and his
wife to sell a part of the lands included in the marriage settlement~deed became forfeited to the state, so far as it had
not been executed, the sale to Timothy Carver could not,
under the evidence in this case, be.considered an execution
of that power.
14. The whole title, both in law and equity, which may
or can have vested in the children and heirs of Roger Morris and Mary his wife, of, in or to the lands and premises in
question, has been, as between the grantors and grantee,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
['Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

legally transferred to John Jacob Astor, his heirs and assigns, according to the true intent and meaning- of the acts
of the legislature of the state of New York, which have been
produced and read upon the trial.
15. A proper deed of conveyance, in fee simple, from John
Jacob Astor, and all persons claiming under him, to the people of the state of New York, would be valid and effectual,
to release, transfer and extinguish all right, title and interest which now is, or may have been vested in the children
and heirs of said Roger Morris and Mary his wife, according
to the true intent and meaning of the acts of the legislature
referred to in the next prece ding instruction.
16 and 17. The plaintiff's action is not barred by any statute of limitations in this state.
The court then charged the jury.
After stating the plaintiff's title under the patent to
Adolphe Philipse in 1697, and that it was not denied by the
defendant, but that Mary Pliilipse in 1754 became seised, in
severalty, in fee simple of the premises in question, the court
proceeded to say :
"At this point the dispute commences. On the part of the
plaintiff, it is contended, that the marriagesettlement deed
which has been produced and submitted to you, bearing date
in the year 1758, was duly executed and delivered on or about
the time it bears date; the legal operation of which was to vest
in Roger Morris and his wife Mary, a life estate, with a contingent remainder to their children, which became vested in
them on their birth, and that their right and title has been
duly vested in Mr Asto,, by the deed bearing date in the
year 1809. On the part of the defendant, it is contended,
that Mary Philipse never parted with her title in the premises by the marriage settlement deed, set up on the other
side, or-that if she did, it was revested in her or her huffband, and. continued in them or one of them, until they were
attainted in the year 1779, by an act of the legislature of this
state, and that the title to the land in question thereby became vested in the people of this state, from whom the
defendant derives title. Unless therefore the plaintiff can
establish this marriage settlement deed, so as to vest a legal

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex den. Astor et al.]

estate in the children of Roger Morris and Mary his wife, he
cannot recover in this action
"It will be proper for you, in examining and weighing the
facts and circumstances of this case, to bear in mind, that the
children of Morris and wife could not assert in a court of
law their right in this land, until the death of Mrs Morris
in the year 1825, and since 1825 there has been no want
of diligence in prosecuting and asserting the claim.
"In the year 1809, Mr Astor purchased-and acquired all
the interest of the children of Morris and wife; and.you are
to consider him as now standing in their plaLce.
"The first question then is, was the marriage settlement
duly executed . In the first place, the plaintiff has produced
the ordinary and usual evidence of the execution of the deed,
has shown that governor Livingston was the subscribing witness; and that in 1787 he went before judge Hobart and
made the usuai and ordinary proof of the execution of the
deed; such as was sufficient to entitle the deed to be re.corded: the hand writing of the witnesses who, are dead has
also been proved. Upon this proof the prima facie presumption of law is, that the deed was executed in all due form,
to give it force and validity; and in the absence of all other
evidence, the jury would be justified, if -not conclusively
bound to say, that every thing was properly done, including
a delivery. But whether delivered or not, is a question of
fact for the jury.
"Delivery is absolutely essential-; a deed signed, but not
delivered, will not operate'to convey land. But no particular form was necessary; if the grantee comes into the possession of the deed in any way which may be presumed to
be with the assent of. the grantor, that is enough, and is a
good delivery in law; and if found in the hands of the
grantee years afterwards, d delivery may fairly be presumed,
and it will operate from and relate back to the time of its
date, in the absence of all proof to the contrary. If a deed
be. delivered to an agent, or thrown on a table, with the
intent that the grantee should have it, that is sufficient,
although no words are used. Such proof as has been given
in this case, would be-sufficient for a jury to presume a deli-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs.Jackson ex dew. Astor et al.]

very, even in the case of a modern deed, and is much
stronger in relation to one of ancient date. In this case,
what else could be proved . Would it be reasonable to require any thing beyond what the plaintiff has proved . The
witnesses are dead; their hand writing has been proved, and
a proper foundation is thus laid for- presuming that every
thing was done to give effect and validity to the deed.
" Such. being the case, the burden of proof is thrQwn on
the other side to rebut the presumptidn of a delivery, warranted from these circumstances. Much stress has been
laid upon the fact that the certificate of proof by governor
Livingston not only states that the witnesg saw the parties
sign and seal, but that he saw them delitJer the deed. In
stating a delivery, the certificate is a little out of the ordiilary form; and it is not important, and adds little or nothing to the evidence of a due and full execution of the deed,
that the .word deliver was inserted. This insulated fact is
Aot of much importance, for without that word, the legal
effect of the proof would be the same; proof of the due
execution for the purposes expressed in the deed, includes a
delivery.
"What then is the evidence to bring the fact of delivery
into doubt! I separate now between the release and the
lease; these are two distinct questions, and I shall consider
the question relative to the lease hereafter. The. argument
of the defendant is, that the deed was not delivered, and did
not go into effect. Then what is the reasonable presumption to be drawn from the facts he has provedq keeping in
mind that this is evidence, by the defendant to disprove the
presumption of law from the facts proved, that the deed was
duly delivered. It has been said on the part of the defendant, that the deed was probabjy kept for some time, and that
the design to have a marriage settlement ,was finally abandoned. If you believe from the proof nmde by governor
Livingston, that the deed went into the hands of the parties,
then there was a good delivery, because a deed cannot be
delivered to'the party as an escrow. Then is there any evidence to call the delivery into question 9 Where is the
evidence to induce the belief that the deed was executed

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Tackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

with any understanding that it was not to have immediate
effect, or that it was delivered to a third person as an escrow,
or that the parties did not intend it as an absolute delivery 9
You have a right to say so, if there is evidence to support
it; but if there is nothing to induce such a belief, then you
are to say that it was duly de:ivered.
"I It has been said that this was a dormant deed, never intended by the parties to operate; that it had slept until
after the attainder and until the year 1787. There is weight
in this, or rather there would be weight in it, if the parties
in interest had slept on their rights. But who has slept.!
Morris and his wife, Beverly Robinson and Joanna Philipse,
the trustees: they are the persons that have slept, and not
the children. This does not justify so strong an inference
against the children as if they had slept upon their right.
Is it fair in such a case to draw any inference against the
children 9
"It has been said that there were three copies of this instrument; it is somewhat uncertain how many copies there were,
or where they went. But suppose.there were three copies,
where would they probably go q Undoubtedly to the perties in interest. Mary Philipse would have one; and Roger
Morris anothe'r, and the trustees the third. Mary Philipse,
in a certain event, oontemplated in the marriage settlement,
would again become seised in fee. She therefore had an
interest in having one copy ; for although #he had parted
with the fee, she took back a life estate with the possibility
of an ultimate fee in the land revesting in her. 'Roger
Morris also had an interest under the deed, and it is therefore reasonable to presume that'he had one copy of the deed.
The third copy would have gone to the trustees, Beverly
Robinson and Joanna Philipse, But where did this one
come from 9 All you have on this subject is, that Mr Watts
received, it from Morris in 1787, to have it acknowledged.
This one, for the purpose of passing the title, is as good as
though all three were produced.
"It has also been urged that this deed was not recorded
until 1787. Is there any thing in that fact that should operate against the children!. They were minors for the greater

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jac6son ex dem. Astor et al].

part of the time down to the year 1787, when it was recorded.
"It has also been urged as a controlling fact, that Morris
was here at the close of the wai, and did not have the deed
recorded before going to Englana. It appears from the
testimony of colonel Barclay, that Morris and his family left
New York for England before the evacuation of the city by
the British army, which was on the 25th of November 1783.
It is well known as a matter of history, hat the British were
in possession of the city of New York through all the war.
Is there any thing then in the fact that it was not recorded,
from which an inference can be' drawn against the deed .
Where were the officers before whom Morris could at this
time have had the deed proved? No law has been shown
giving .any such power, nor do I know of any. such law.
Then is there any just ground for a charge of negligence,
even against Morris himself! After 1783 there were officers
here before whom the deed might have been acknowledged
or proved.
"Is there any. thing in omitting to have it recorded after
that time! There was only three or four years delay; and
are there not circumstances reasonably to account for that,
February preand show why it was recorded in 1787 9
made
children
the
recording,
and
probf
of
time
the
ceding
forth
setting
and
as'serting
legislature,
the
to
an application
their claim. They were told by the report of the committee, which was adopted by the house, if you have a right, as
you say you have, go to the courts of law, where you will
have redress.
"This was a very- proper answer. The report did not,
however, as has been urged, contain any admission of their
title; nor did the committee give any opinion upon the
validity of the claim ; and if they had, we cannot regard it.
But all they or the house said, was, that if what you allege
be 'true, you have a remedy in the courts of law. This was
calculated to awaken their attention and to induce them to
prove and record their deed, as a.precautionary measure..
It has been said that this was no more than the ordinary
transaction of proving a deed, and that in the case of an old
VoL. IV.-D

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs.Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

.deed, thd witness finding his name to the deed, swears from
that circumstance, rather than from any particular recollection, that he saw it executed. But in this case, was there
not something special and particular preceding the proof of
this deed; something calculated to awaken atterition, and
ought it to be consideredrib more than the ordinary transaction of proving an old deed. Governor Livingston, the
witness who proved the deed, as has been proved to you,
was a man of high character, an eminent lawyer, and a distinguished whig. It is fair to presume, also, that he knew
what had been done just before in the legislature. Is it not
reasonable then to believe that his attention was particularly
called to the transaction, and that he referred back to the
time of the execution of the dbed, and tiat he would not
have proved it if lie had.not a recollection of what then took
place.!
"It is reasonable to presume, his attention being awakened, that he refreshed his recollection of the original transaction. It was proved at Judge Hobart's house. Mr Watts drew
the certificate. Bat can you presume that the witness would
swear, and the judge would certify, without having read it!
It is reasonable to presume that Judge Hobart, as well as
the-wtness, knew what had taken place in the legislaiure in
.this-city a short time'before. This certificate .is
a little out
of the ordinary form ; -it.states the execution to have been at
or about the day of its date : they may have thought it ne-.
cessary to show that the deed was not got up to overreach
the attainder. Is there any thing in the circumstances of
this proof to induce the belief of unfairness ?
" It is also said that Morris and his wife have done acts inconsistent with the deed. In weighing the force and effect
of these acts, you 'must bear in mind the time when the interest vested in the children under-this deed ; for after that
interest vetdd,,non6 but themselves, could divest it. It is
said there is doubt as to the time when the marriage took
place; but it was probably between 1758 and 1761 ; for in
the latter year Mary Morris executed a deed as the wife of
Roger Morris. I am inclined to think the law is, that after
the marriage, the parties to the deed cotild not disannul the

JANUARY TERM 1830.

27

'Caever vs. Tirkson ex dem. Astor et a.)

deed. But certainly not after the birth and during thd-life
of the children of that marriage.
"We now come to the acts that are said to be inconsistent
with the deed. Those acts are of three distinct kinds or
classes. 1. Those for settling the exterior lines of the patent. 2. The deeds to Hill and Merritt. And 3. The leases
for the lives of other persons.
"In estimating the weight of the first class, it will be proper
for you to bear in mind the situatiop of the patent to Adolphe
Philipse. It was bounded north by the Kip (or:Van Cortland
& Co.) patent and the Beekman patent, and on the east by
Connecticut. The first class of instruments produced by the
defendant relate to the Connecticut. line, the Beekman patent, and the Kip (or Van Cortland) patent. The first deed
is that of January 18th, 1758 : this relates to the boundary
of the Beekrnan patent. You will see from this deed, and
its recital, what the parties intended. It-reciteaan figreement
in 1754, to settle the lines of the two patents.
"You are not necessarily to take this as having been executed after the marriage settlement deed: delivery is what
gives validity to a deed. Certainly Mary Philip'se was not
married at the time this deed was made; fbr if she had been,
she would have sighed it as Mary Morris. If she was not
married, and had not executed the marriage settlement deed,
she was scised in fee-of the land, and had the absolute control over it.
"Again, it does not appear how much of the Philipse patent was conveyed by thi deed; and it was made in pursuance of an agreement in 1754, to settle the boundary.
"The next is the patent to Philipse, Robinson and Morris,
growing out of the settlement of the Connecticut line. The
government settled the line between Newv York and Connecticit, making it a straight line, instead of one parallel to
the. Hudson river, according to the patent: and this patent
was given to Morris and others for the lands lying on the
west side of that line. And the patent recites, that Morris
and his wife had released to the king the .land taken from the
Philipse patent by the new line. This was an act-to settle
boundaries. Again, it is to be observed, that Robinson and

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs, Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

Morris were both married; and yet the patent was not given
to their wives, but to the husbands.
"The interest Morris had in the land, was a life estate under the settlement deed, the same as it would have been
without it. Without that deed, he had a life estate as tenant by the curtesy.
"Morris, instead of taking this patent to his wife or chil'dren, or in trust for them, took it to -himself. He might,
however, be considered as taking the land in trust for his
children. But this alleged inconsistency of Morris is just as
great without as with the settlement deed.
"The next is the deed to Verplank, in relation to the, Kip
or Rumbout patent. It does not appear that this deed conveyed any of the Philipse patent. But suppose it did, it does
not necessarily follow that it was intended to assert any right
in hostility to the marriage settlement deed. Is it not a fair
and reasonable presumption, these children being infants,
that the parents meant this as a settlement of difficulties
about boundary, for the benefit of the children, and noi that
they intended to act in hostlity to the deed . It was the act
of parents, and not of strangers. The intention with which
all these acts were done, is important; as they are introduced
to show that Morris and his wife have acted inconsistently
with their right under the marriage settlement deed.
"We are next to consider the deeds to Hill and Merritt.
Are thes4e hostile to the settlement deed '.If there had been
no power to-sell any part of the land, they would have been
strongly inconsistent with the settlement deed. But that
deed contains a power expressly giving them the right to
sell in fee to the value of three thousand pounds. They
-have only sold to the amount of one thousand one hundred
and ninety-five pounds, and so are .within the power. But
it has been said that these.deeds do not recite the power.that was not necessary: the purchasers in these (Hill and
Merritt) deeds would acquire as valid a title as if the power had been-recited. These deeds are, therefore, not inconsjstent with the settlement deed.
"The next thing to be considered is the three, life leases.
Were these such acts of hostility as to induce the belief that

JANUARY rERM 1830.

29

[Carver w. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

the settlement deed was not delivered 9 It has been argued
on the part of the plaintiff, that the word disose,in the
power, would authorise these leases as well as sales in fee.
This I think isnot. the true construction of the power : looking at the latter part of the power, it is-evident thaf by the
words sell and dispose of, they only contemplated sales,.and
not leasing for life ir lives. And so, in strictness of law, they
had no power to make tflese leases for lives. But if they had
no such power, still the question returns, how-is that to affect
the rights of the children; and did they intend it in hosility
to those rights !- It could not affect their interest inthe land..
acts, but.
The question is not what was the legal effect of these
how did Morris intend them 9 Did he actually mean to act
in hostility to the deed 9 That is the question. You are not
to construe it an act of hostility, unless it was so intended by
Morris. It was a new country: clearing and improving th
lands was for the beneki of the children ; 'atid if Morris so
intended these leases, they ate not hostile to the deed.
These are all the circumstances relied upon as, being inconsistent with the settlement deed; and they are questions
for you. I do not wish to interfere with your duties. It is
for 'you to say whether the deed was duly executed and delivered.
"The next question for your consideration, is whether there
was a.lease as iell as a release. In. the judgment of the
court, a lease was necessary to convey a legal estate to the
children, and through them to Mr Astor. Without a lease,
this deed would only have operated as a bargain and sale,
and the statute (for reasons that I need not stop to explain)
would not have executed the ulterior uses. So a lease is
indispensable to the plaintiff's title. Then the question is,
are you satisfied that a lease was executed . This, perhaps,
is the stress of the case. On this subject, questions of law
are intermingled with the facts. The plaintiff says thit the
recital in the release is conclusive evidence of the lease ;
such evidence as cannot bd disputed. If so, then it would
operate as a technical estoppel, and Carver's mouth would
be shut, and he would not" be peimitted. to dispute the ex-

30

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

istence of the lease, whether there was one in point of fact
or not. But it is not enough to make it an estoppel, that
the defendant cleims under the same party: he must claim
under or through the same deed, or through the same title.
Here neither -the defendant nor the state claim through this
deed : they claim in hostility to it ; they say there never was
such a deed ; they claim the interest that was in Mary Philipse in 1754. This recital is not, therefore, to be considered
a technical estoppel.
,The question then is,.whether the recital can operate in
any other way '.The court has before decided in your hearing, that this recital is evidence for the jury; and it is for
you to say what weight and importance it ought to have.
The defendant -has excepted to the decision of the court that
this is evidence ; and if the court .should have mistaken the
law, the defendant will have his redress. You are therefore,
to take this recital as evidence legally and properly admitted ; and if legal evidence, it is evidence for some purpose.
It would be absurd for the court, after deciding that it is
legal evidence, to tell you not to consider it, or that it is entitled to no weight 6r importance. You must therefore regard this recital as -evidence;
"The recital being evidence, the question is for you to decide what is ifs weight and importarice . In recent transactions, where the party can have other evidence of the fact,
recitals are of little weight. But in ancient transactions,
they are of more'weight ahd consequence. There may be
no witness to ptovie the fact. And the force and importance
of a-recital-may be. greater- or smaller, according to the facts
aid circumstances of 'ach particular ease. Here the lease
is lost, and it cannot iherefore be shown who were the witnesses to it, nor with certainty whait contained. The witnesses to the release. are dead, and the plaintiff could not
theref6re be called upon to produce them. In the proof of
ancient transactions, the rules of evidence must bd relaxed
in some measure, to meet the necessity of cases. Where
witnesses cannot be had we have to resort to othex. proof.
These will have greater weight in some cases ihan in others.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

If the case is stripped of any fact or circumstance to induce a-suspicion of fraud, then d7 recital will have greater
weight.
"From the release, it is reasonable to presbme that the parties intended to convey a.legal estate. This deed, if not,
drawn by governor Livingston, was most likely drawn under
his advice and direction, and is it not fair to presume that he
drew the proper deeds to carry into effect the intentions of
the parties . If-he acted fairly, he would have done -so ;-and
is it not a fair presumption that he drew su'ch an instrumert
as was cnstomary at that day, and deemed necessary to convey the legal estate !.
"It is proved that the lease and release was-the ordinary
mode of conveyance. Judge Benson says, that was the uniform practice; and colonel Troup says the same. This is an
additional circumstance to induce the belief that-a lease was
executed, and it is for you to determine.whether the circumstances are sufficient to satisfy you that what ivas usual and
in accordance with the ordinary course of business, was done
in this case.
"But it is objected that tihe lease is not produced. The
plaintiff has, in the opinion of the court, accounted for this,
by proving it lost. It has been shown uot to have been the
general practice to record the leases with the releases ; very
few appear ever to have been so recorded in proportion to the
relbases, and those produced in court, on the part of the defendant, have never been recorded: It has been said that the
lease had.performed its office the moment the release was
executed, and wasno longer of any moment. This is not
correct ; but if the parties were under that impression, it will
in some measure account for their not keeping it with greater
care.
"If you are satisfied, from the evidence, that there was a
lease duly executed, then the plaintiff has a right to recover,
unless some act has since been done changing the rights of
the parties.,
"The defendant's counsel have urged that this is not a case
for presumptions in favour of the existence of a, lease; that

SUPREME COURT.
Carver vs. Jackson ex deul. Astor et al.]

presumptions can only. be resorted to when the possession
accords .with the fact to be presumed.- There may be some
question on this point. I have examined all the cases citerd,.
but I find none that come precisely to this case. So far as
I understand the 'cases, presumptions cannot be resorted to
in hostility to the possession. The mere fact of a naked
possession proves but little. Courts, therefore, admit evidence of' the deilarations of parties in possession of land, to
show how they hold. In this case the possession may be
considered equivocal. Morris and wife would have been
entitled to the possession, whether there was or was not
such a deed; and presuming, a lease, would not necessarily
be presuming a fact in hostility to the possession.. Ifyou
are therefore satisfied that Morris and wife were in possession, holding under the deed of marriage settlement, presumptions may be indulged in favour of the existence of the
lease. But if you consider them holding the possess;on, in
is not a case 'for prehostility to the marriage settlement, .it
suming a lease.
"A lease and release are considered but one instrument,.
though in two parts. The absence of the lease is not the
loss of an entire link in a chain of title, .but it is a defect of
a part of one instrument. Suppose a deed purporting to
pass a fee, produced without a seal, and from the lapse of
'time or other cause, there is no appearance of~its ever
having had a seal 9 Then the party must show that it had
been sealed, for otherwise it would not pass the fee. By
what kind of evidence could this fact be established ?
Would it not be proper to look at the conclusion and attestati6 n of the deed-Signed, sealed, &c. . Would it not
also be proper evidence, to show it was drawn by a man
who knew that a seal was nedessary to pass the estate, and
other 6ircuinstantial evidence, and for the jury, from evidence of this description, to presume and find that the instrument was duly sealed, to supply the defect and infirmity
of the deed!
"If you are satisfied 'the lease, ag well as release, was executed and delivercd, a legal estate has been snown in thp

JANUARY TERM 1830.
Astor et al.]
[Carver vs. Jackson ex demn.

heirs of 'Roger and Mary Morris, and the plaintiff will be
entitled to recover, unless that titl6 has been revested in
Roger and Mary Morris, or one of them.
"It is said that the title has been revested in Mrs Morris,
by some conveyance,, since the settlement deed. This you
may presume, if in your opinion the evidence will warrant
such presumption. But no redelivery, cancelling or the
like, would have that effect;- there must have been a reconveyance. This must also have been made before the
marriage, or at the utmost length, before the birth of a child;
therefore you can only look to circumstances arising before
the marriage, or before the birth of a child ; unless-you
should be of opinion that the acts of Roger Morris and his
wife, 'wvhich have been given in evidence, were in hostility
to this marriage settlement deed. The children may have.
reconveyed since they came of age. But the circumstatices
do not weigh very strongly against, them before' 1825,
when they were first in a condition to assert their rights.
There cannot be any very strong grounds for supposing the
children ever reconveyed. And. if there is any thing to
satisfy you there was a reconveyance, you will say so; and
it will defeat the plaintiff's right to recover. But in my.
judgment, the result will depend principally 'upon the question, whether a lease and release were duly executed and
delivered, so as to pass'the legal estate,
"The deed of the state only passed such right to the defendant's father as the state had ; and if the marriage settlement deed has been established, that was nothing more
.than the life estate of Morris and wife. -:It is tot necessarily to be inferred from any of the acts read, that the state
intended to take any greater interest than such as the persons attainted had. They sold what the commissioners of
•forfeitures judged had been forfeited. They did not examine
into the state of the title, but only exercised their judgment
upon such information as'they had. 'It was for ihat reason
that the state conveyed with warranty. The state cannot
be presumed to have intended to conclude the rights of
third persons who were not attainted. If, therefore, you
VOL. IV.-E.

SUPREME COURT.
(Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

shall find that the marriage settlement deed, consisting of a
lease and release, was duly executed and ddlivered on or
about the time it purports to bear date, the children of Roger
and Mary Morris acquired under it a contingent ren~tinder,
which became vested on their birth; and the plaintiff will be
entitled to recover unless that interest was destroyed or put
an end to by some subsequent reconveyance, of which you
will judge and determine."
Vpon this charge, and on the opinion, the court left the
case to the jury. A verdict and judgment were rendered
for.the plaintiff; and the defendant prosecuted this writ of
error.
The case was argued for the plaintiff in error by Mr Bronson, attorney general of Nev. Yorl: and Mr Webster; and
for the defendant by Mr Ogdon and Mr Wirt.
For the plaintiff in error, the following points were made:
I. No estate ever vested in the children of Morris and wife
uinder the -settlem~nt deed.
1. The remainder limited to the children by that deed,
%vasa contirfgent remainder, and could not vest in the life
'time of their parents.
2. By the attainder and banishment of Morris.and wife
in 1779, they hecame civilly dead, and their estate in the
land determined: and the contingent remainder to the
children failed for the wa~it ol'a partLular estate to support it.

3. If the attainder and forfeiture worked no more than an
assignment of the particular (or life) estate; then the conveydtnce by the state of New York in1782, to Timothy Carver, with warranty, was equivalent to a feoffmcnt by the
tenant for life, and destroyed the contingent remainder depending on that life estate.
4. By the attainder of Beverly Robinson, the surviving
trustee in 1779, and the forfeiture of all his estate to the
people of the state- of New York,- all seisin in the trustee
to serve the contingent uses to the .children was divested.
The state cannot be seised to a use ; and.so there was no
soisin to serve the contingent uses to the children, when the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

event upon which they were to vest happened : and the state
took the land discharged of the subsequent limitations in re-

mainder.
II. Under the settlement deed (without a lease) the children could not take legal, but only trust or equitable interests in the land.
IIl. The judge erred in admitting evidence to prove the
los, before it had been shown that a lease ever existed.
IV. The plaintiff did not prove the loss, nor did he sufficiently account for the non-production of the lease, and was
not entitled to give secondary evidence of its contents.
1. The release states it was executed in three partsthere must also have been three parts to the lease : and.the
plaintiff should have accounted for all the parts, before being permitted to give secondary evidence of the contents.
2. Most of the evidence of searches for the lease, was of
a loose and unsatisfactory character-depending; as to its
sufficiency, upon mere hearsay evidence.
3. No sufficient search was proved among the papers of
Mary Morris, formerly Mary Philipse.
4. No search was shown to have been made among the
papers of'Joanna Philipse, the mother of Mary Morris and
one of the trustees.
5. No search was proved in the office of the secretary of
state, where the release was recorded. Nor was any proved
in the clerks' office of the counties of Dutchess and Putnam,
where the land is situated.
6. A search, by a third person, among the papers of the
children and heirs of Roger Morris and his wife, who were
lessors of the-plaintiff, was not sufficient. Those lessors were
competent witnesses upon the question of loss, and should
have been sworn, or examined on commission.
7. The other lessors of the plaintiff, Messrs Colden, Fow-'
ler, and Bogert, should have been sworn, as well as Mr Astor, to prove that they had not got the lease.
S. It should have been shown where the release came
from, when it came into the hands of the plaintiff, or Mr
Astor, and that the lease was not in that place.

36

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jacksorn ex dem. Astor et aL]

V. ,The recital in the release does not bind the defendant
by way of estoppel, nor is it evidence against him.
VI. This is not a case where a lease or other conveyance
can be presumed.
VII. The plaintiff was not entitled to recover without
proving the actual execution of a lease.
VIII, Evidence of what were the contents of a lease in a
.particular case between other parties, was not competent
evidence to prove. what were the contents, of the lease in
this case.
IX. If a lease of some kind was executed, the plaintiff was
not entitled to recover on proving it lost, without also proving what were its contents.
X. The judge admitted evidence which was not pertinent,
and which may have misled the jury.
1..A common practice to convey land by lease and release
was not competent evidence to prove that a lease was executed in this case, or what were its contents.
2. The professional character of governor Livingston was
not competent evidence to prove either a lease or its contents.
3. Proof that it was not usual to record leases, .was not
competent evidence to prove the loss of a lease in-this case.
4. Proof of what was the usual recital of a lease in a
deed of release, was not competent evidence for any purpose.
5. The journal of the assembly was not legal or competent evidence against the defendant.
6. The acts of the legislature of the state of New York,
relative to the claim of Mr Astor, were not competent evidence against the defendant.
7. Proof that this suit was defended by the state of New
York, was not competent evidence against the defendant.
XI. The judge misdirected the jury on the question of a
delivery of the settlement deed.
XII. The judge misdirected the jury as to the grounds
upon which they might find there ws a lease Ds well as a
release.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et el.]

XtII. The judge should have instructed the jury that this
was a proper case for presuming a cdnveyance.
XIV. Roger Morris, and Mary his wife, under the mar-riage settlement deed, had an interest in the land, and might
convey in fee, to the amount of three thousand pounds in
value. They did convey to the amount of one thousand one
hundred and ninety-five pounds in valup, and the residue of
that interest was forfeited to and vested in the people of the
state of New York; and the power was well executed by
the conveyance of the commissioners of forfeitures to Timothy Carver, the defendant's grantor.
XV. The whole title, both in law and equity, which may
or can have vested in the children and heirs of Roger Morris and Mary his wife, of, in and to the lands and premises
in question, has not been, as between the grantors and grantee, legally transfeired to the said John Jacob Astor, his
heirs and assigns.
XVI. A proper deed of conveyance in fee simple, from
the said John Jacob Astor, and all persons claiming under
him, to the people of the state of XJew York, would not be
valid and effectual, to release, transfer, and extinguish, all
righti) title, and interest which now is, or may have been
vested in the children and heirs of the said Roger Morris
and 'Mary -his wife.
XVII. The plaintiff's action is barred under the act limiting the period of bringing clains and prosecutions against
forfeited estates.
XVIII. The plaintiff's action is barred under the general
limitation act of 1788; and also under the general limitation act of 1801.
XIX. The plaintiff was bound to pay for the permanent
improvements upon the land, by which its value had been
increased.
Mr Bronson, for the plaintifftin error, contended; that on
the true construction of the deed of settlement, no estate
vested in the children of Roger Morris and wife. Morris
and wife took upon their.marriage an estate in the land
for the term of their natural lives, and the life of the' survi-

SUPREME COURT
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

vor, with a contingent remainder in fee to the children,
which could not vest in the life time of their parents. The
uses in the deed, were: 1.'To the trustees until the marriage. 2. To Morris and wife for life. 3.'From and after
the determination of the life estate to such children as
might be born of the marriage. 4. But if they should have
no child or children, or such child or children should hap:
pen to die in :the life time of their parents, then either to
Mrs Morris, or to such persons as she should devise the
same.
Thus the remainder was contingent and did not vest during the life of the parents; and it afterwards failed for the
want of a particular estate to support it, the life estate of
Roger Morris and wife. having been forfeited. It was the
obvious meaning of the deed, that the residue of the estate
should go to the children, if they survived the mother; and
if not, to her, as either event should take place. It was thus
a remainder limited to two persons, or classes of persons,
depending on survivorship ; and until the happening of the
event it could not become a vested estate in either.
This was the effect of the limitation over , and such a limitation is good at common law. There may be two concurrent remainders or contemporary fees, called alternate remainders ; the latter to take effect in ease the first shall fail.
Laddington vs. Kime, I Lord Ray. 203. The same case is
reported, I Salk. 224. 1 Preston on Estates, 488, 493.
The case before the court is more properly one fee; one remainder ; and is like the ordinary case of a remaindei limited
to
the> survivor of two or more persons.
. In
jinswer to the allegation that the children on their
birth took vested remainders in fee, and that the limitations
over, in case of the death of the children, could only have.
taken effect by way of shifting use; it is urged that-although
by conveyances deriving their operation from the statute of
uses, estates may be limited differently from the limitations
by conveyances at common law, yet the difference between
a remainder and a shifting use is, that a remainder must be
limited to take effect in possession upon the regular determination of the estate which precedes it. but a shifting use

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jacksonex dem. Astor et at.]

does not take effect upon the regular determination of the
preceding estate, but in derogation or abridgement of that
estate. 1 Preston on Estates, 117, 92-. 93. Cruises Dig.
Rem. ch. 5, see. 19, 36.
Springing and shifting uses, and executory devises are
only admitted in cases of necessity, and it is well settled
that where a limitation can take effect as a remainder with
a sufficient freehold estate to support it, it shall not be construed as a springing or shifting use, or as an executory devise. Laddington vs. Kime, before cited. Doe vs. Holmes,_
3 Wils. 243.

Goodtitle vs. Billington, Doug. 725, 753.

Fearne on Ex. Dev. 5.
The principles of these cases fully apply to this case.
There was no difficulty in giving effect to the limitation to
Mrs M6rris, or her devisee as a remainder, construing the
deed'as giving the residue of the estate to the one or the
other according to survivorship. Thus no estate could vest
in the children during the life time of their parents. They
had no certain or fixed right of future enjoyment. The
case is therefore within the fourth class of cases, as they are
arranged by Mr Fearne ; the person,.though in esse, was not
ascertained. Fearne on Contingent Rem. 2, 3, 5, 9. Biggott vs. Smith, Cro. Car. 102. Co. Lit. 378, A. Cruise's Dig.
Rei. ch. 1, see. 9. Bac. Ab. Rem. and Rev. D. 1 Preston on Est. 77. Leonard Lovie's Case, 10 Co. 85, 86. 3
Coke, 20. 1 Plow. Rep. 20. Smith vs. Belay, Cro. Eliz. 630.
Itis not the event which is to determine the preceding
estate, but that which is to give effect to the rdmaind'er,
which distinguishes a contingent from a vested remainder.
I Preston on Est. 67, 70, 71. If the remainder to the children was vested in interest, it might be aliened or devised;
and on their death it would descend to their heirs; and the
limitation to the mother, and her .devisee might have been
defeated, notwithstanding the death of the children before
their parents. It is therefore evident that. the remainder
was contingent until the question of survivorship was determined. 1 Preston on Est. 64. Cruise's Dig. Rem. ch. 1,.
sec. 9. Doe vs. Provoost, 4 Johns. Rep. 61. Den vs. Bagshaw, 6 Lburnf. & East, 512.

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver 'vs. Jackson ex demr.Astor at al.]

There are some cases upon wills, where the courts, to carry
into effect the intention of the testator, have held a contingent disposition of the estate to be a condition subsequent,
to divest the estate, and not-a condition precedent. 4 Bos.
& Pul. 313. 14 East, 601. 1 Maule & Sel. 327. 2 Johns.
Cases, 314. But in these cases the estates in remainder were
so limited as to take effect in possession upon the regular determination of the preceding estate; or where it was necessary
to effect the intention of the testator so to construe the limitation. The cases of Doe vs. Martin, 1 D. & E.-39. The
Earl of Sussex vs. Temple, 1 Lord Raym. 311. Matthews
vs. Temple, Comberb. 407, do not interfere with the principles contended for on the part 'of the plaintiff in error.
2. The contingent remainder to the children failed upon
several grounds:
1. By the attainder and banishment, by which Morris and
wife became civilly dead, and.their estate determined; there
being from that event no particular estate to support it.
Banishment for life works the civil death of the pgrty.
Co. Litt. 133. 1 Blac. Com.-132, 133. 4 Johns. Ch. Rep.
218. 6 Johns.-Ch. Rep. 118. The remainder must vest in
interest during the continuance of the 'particular estate, or
the moment' df its determination, or it is gone for ever.
Fearne on Cont. Rem. 307, 326, 389. Cruise's Dig. Rern.
ch. 6, see. 35, 36. 2 Saund. Rep. 386., Thompson, vs.
Leach, 1 Lord Raym. 316. Lloyd vs. Brooking, 1 Ventris,
188. 2 Salk. 576: In the cases of Corbet vs. Tickborn,
2 Salk. 576, and Linch vs. 'Coote, 2 Salk. 469, where it was
held, that by attainder for treason of the tenant for life, the
crown takes no other than the interest of the tenant; there
was in the first case a still subsisting life estate to"sustain the
remainder; and in the second case, the remainder was actually vested.
In Borland vs. Dean, 4 Mason's C. C. Rep. 174, it was held
that the confiscation of the estate- of the tenant for life did
not defeat the remainder. But this was.on the ground that
it was a vested, and not a contingent estate at the time of
the confiscation.
2. If the attainder and forfeiture worked no moro -than

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs.Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

ar assignment of the particular and life ,estate, then the
conveyance by the state in 1782, to Timothy Carver with
warranty, was equivalent to a feoffment by the tenant -for
life, and destroyed the contingent remainder depending on
that estate. Fearne on Cont. Rem. 316, 318. Cruise Dig.
Rem. ch. 6. sec. 1, 7. 2 Saunders, 386. It is true that
a bargain and sale by tenant for life will not destroy a contingent remainder, as it passes no greater interest than the
person has. But the statute of New York, under which the
commissioners acted, is part of the alienation as well as the
deed, and the statute gives the deed of the commissioners
all the effect of a feoffment with livery at common law.
3. By the attainder of Beverly Robinson, the surviving
trustee in 1779, and the forfeiture of all his estate to the
people of the state of New York, all seisin in the trustee to
serve the contingent uses to the children was divested; and
thus the remainder to the children of Roger Morris and wife
was destroyed.
The state cannot be seised to a use; and so there was no
seisin to serve the contingent remainder to the children, and
the state took the land discharged of the subsequent limitations.
It is necessary to the execution of a use, that some person
should be seised-to the use. Gilbert on Uses-and Trusts, 125.
Chu,"eigh's Ca.e, 1 Coke, 132. 1 Saunders on. Uses and
Trusts 117, 181. 7 Cruise's Dig. Uses, ch. 3, sec. 78.
Cruise's Dig. Rem. ch. 5, sec. 9.
The king cannot be seised to a use, but by prerogative
'holds the lands discharged of the use; and the people of the
state of New York have succeeded to all the rights and prerogatives of the former sovereign. Cruise's Dig. Use, ch. 2,
sec. 37. Cruise's Dig. ch. 3, sec. 9, 10. Vin. Ab. Uses ().
Gilbert on Uses and Trusts, 5, 6. The People vs. Herkimer,
4 Cow. 345. The People vs. Gilbert, 18 Johns. Rep. 227.
The counsel then proceeded to argue that there should
have been a lease, in order to sustain a marriage settlement.
That the loss of the lease was not proved. But the court.
having decided that the recital of the lease in the deed of
VOL. IV.-F

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et aL]

the 13th of January 1758,'was evidence between these parties, of the original existence of the lease, the argument
upon theie points is omitted.
It was further argued that the recital in the lease does not
bind the plaintiff in error by way of estoppel, nor is it evidence against him.
The circuit court held that the -recital was not an estoppel, but that it was evidence against the defendant in that
court, of the existence of the lease.
It was not such evidence. The defendant did not claim
under or through the deed, but claimed adversely to it, and deduced his title from the patent to Adolphe Philipse in 1697.
The plaintiff then set up a deed of seventy years standing,
wholly disconnected with the defendant's claim of title; save
that it was executed by one of the persons through whom
the title had passed. It'is denied that it could be evilence
against any one but the party who made it, and, possibly, his
heirs and ,personal representatives, or others standing in his
place.
It is not denied that the deed without the lease' is good
and valid, and divests the title of Mary Philipse, as effectually as if a lease had been made; but without a lease the
legal 'title is not placed where the plaintiffs below require it.
It is important to consider that there never has been a
holding under this deed. Morris and wife were entitled to
the possession of the estate without the deed, and it is necessary to look beyond the deed to ascertain under what
title they hold. There is no evidence which .shows that the
deed was ever referred to by them as valid or subsisting;
but by a series of acts altogether unequivocal and adverse to
the deed, they exercised full ownership over the property, by
granting it in fee, or on leases for life ; acts inconsistent with
the deed.
The doctrine, that-the recital is evidence against the defendant, goes the whole length of determining that an admission, made by any person through whom a title has passed,
binds every one to whom the title may come ; and that a
deed, to which 'a party is a stranger, and under hich there

JANUARY TERM 1830.
LCarver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

has been no holding, not only binds him, by way of divesting the title of his grantor, but that he is also bound by any
admission it may contain. The king is not bound by estoppels. Vin. Ab. Estoppel, (U, 2.) Nor are the governments of
the states of the United States bound by them. Elmendorf
vs. Carmichael, 2 Litt. Rep. 481.
The old doctrine was, that a recital did not bind any-one,
not even the party to the reciting deed. Vin. Ab.- Estop.
M. pl. 5, 7. Co. Litt. 352 (b). But it is admitted, that a
different rule how prevails,; and that recitals are for the most
part evidence against the party to the deed, his heirs, and
those standing. strictly in the character of representatives.;
and against persons claiming through or under the deed.
Denn vs. Correll, 3 Johns. Cas. 174. Will. Rep. 9. Willoughby vs. Brooke, Cro. Eliz. 756. Com. Dig. Testmoigne
(0. 5). But in 2 Starkie on Ev. 30, it is said "a recital.is
not evidence against a stranger to a second deed ;" and
man is a stranger to a deed when he does not claim under
it, although he may claim under the same grantor.
The cases relied upon to support the position of the deerror do not warrant the conclusion claimed from
fendant iif
them. Ford vs. Lord Gray, I Salk. 285. 6 Mod. 44. In
these cases the claims were under the grantor, in and under
or through the reciting deed.
It is' believed that no case can be found where the point
has been adjudged, that a recital was "vidence against one
claiming under the party to the reciting deed, but not
through it, unless where there has been a possession not to
be accounted for, but on the trdth of the recited fact. 'In such
a case it may be evidence against a stranger. Norris's
Peake's 164.
Estoppels by verdict, admissions on record, &c. bind all
privies., 1 Phil. Ev. 245. Because they operate on the interest in the land, and divest the title. I Salk. 276. But a
recital is mere matter of admission, which does not operate
on the title to land, nor affect it in the hands of a grantee
of the person making the admission. Even the heir is not
always bound by that which would estop his ancestor. Good'

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

title vs. Morse. 3 T; R. 365. Kercheval vs. Triplett, 1
Marshall's Ky. Rep. 7, 494.
The judge admitted evidence which was not pertinent,
and which may have misled the jury.
1. A common practice to convey land by lease and release, was iot competent evidence, to prove that a lease was
executed in this case, or, what were its contents. 2. The
professional character of governor Livingston, was not competent evidence to prove eithq a lease or its contents. 3.
Proof that it -was not usual to record leases, was not competent evidence to prove the loss of a lease .in this case.
4. Proof- of what was the ,usual recital of a lease in a
deed of release, was not competent eviddnce for any purpose.' 5. The journal of the assembly, was not legal or
competent evidence against the defendant. 6. The acts ot
the legislature of the state of New York, relative to the
claim of Mr Astor, were not- competent evidence against
the defendant. 7. Proof tkat this suit was defended by the
state of New York, was not competent evidence against the
defendant.It may be said that this evidence was unimportant : it is
for that very reason that we complain of its admission. And
unless the- plaintiff can show that it was legal evidence
between-these parties, and upon the questions to be tried,
the judgment must be reversed; for it is impossible to say,
that the jury did not found their verdict upon it.
For what legitimate purpose were the acts of the legislature concerning the claim of Mr Astor given in evidence! .
If to excite the sympathy, or operate upon the prejudices of
the jury, it was an improper and illegal purpos9. We
attempted to defend James Carver, and against him the
plaintiff was to establish his right.
If the acts in question contained any admission in favour
of the plaintiff's title, will it be contended that the legislature could destroy or admif away the vested rights of James
Carver! But those acts denied the title of Mr Astor, and
referred him to the courts of law to establish it by proof;
and he was to do that against the tenants upon the land, not
against the state.

JANUARY tERM 1830.
ECarver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et a].]

Again, those acts proposed a compromise, to Mr Astor;
but there was no evidence that he had ever accepted those
terms of compromise.
And how did it tend to establish the title of Mr Astor, orany thing concerning it; to show that this suit was defended
by the state of New York '. If not legal evidence, a reversal of this judgment is asked. If Mr Astor has a title to
this land, he must prove it by legal and pertinent evidence.
The judge 6f the circuit courtfmisdirected the jury on the,
question of the delivery of the settlement deed.
The force of this objection can only be seen by referring
particularly to the case of the plaintiff below.
The evidence offered was the affidavit of Mr Livingston
of-the executiol of the deed, and that of Mr Hoffman of the
hand writing of the subscribing witnesses, both of whom
were proved to be dead. The affidavit of Mr Livingston way
made, not from a recollection of the ex'ecution, but from h!,
name having been subscribed as a witness. This was prima
facie proof to put the instrument on record,-nz" amounted
only to presumptive evidence of a delivery of. the deed.
When a subscribing witness is called to prove the execution
of a deed, two distinct facts are to be established. 1. The
sealing or execution. 2. The delivery. 1 Stark. Ev. 331,
333, 334. 2Stark. Ev. 473, 475,. 477. Jackson vs. Phipps,
12 Johns. 418. Where the witness is dead, proof of the
hand writing, furnishes pkesumptive evidence of sealing and
delivery; if there has been possession under- it, or the .deed
comes-from the grantee.- But in the absence of possession,
or where-the deed was never in the hands of the grantee, the
presumption is very. slight. Such proof of a deed'as will
entitle it to be recorded, is certainly no stronger than an acknowledgement by the party that Ire executed it as his act
and deed, for the uses and purposes therein mentioaed, and
in neither case is the evidence conclusive, but only prima
facie or presumptive, and such as may be rebutted. Jackson
vs.Dunlop, 1 Johns. Cases, 114. Maynard vs. Maynard, 10
Mass. 456. Gardner vs. Collins, 3 Maspn, 398. These cases

sufficiently establish, that the proof or acknowledgement, and

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

the recording of a deed, furnish onlyprimafacieevidence of
delivery.
But upon the whole case it is thought that any evidence
of a presumption that there was an actual delivery of the deed,
so that it became an operativo and valid conveyance, was
entirely destroyed by the facts of the case. The deed -was
prepared in contemplation of marriage, and necessarily was
not -to be delivered until the moment of the marriage ceremony. This must have been the case; as by its terms, if
the marriage did not occur,.the estate would be held by the
trustees. The marriage*'did not take place immediately, for
-Mary Philipse, on the 18th of January 1758, executed a deed
for a part of the land in her own name. She appears to have
been married before the 5th of March 1761. It is probable
the deed was thrown aside, increased confidence in Morris
having made it of no importance; 'and that it was only brought
forward afterwards for the purposes for which it is now set
up. It was not xecorded until 1787, although all the other
title papers of the family were put on record. The.recitals
in the deeds given after it, state all the circumstances of the
title under Adolphe Philipse, but no deed recites this, or in
any manner refers to it. There was no evidence that the
deed had been seen after its execution in the hands of the
-trustees; or seen at all, until 1787, when .it was produced by
the grantor. Upon such facts it is difficult to believe that
it was at any time before the revolution a subsisting con,veyance.
Other important facts were proved. The deeds before
the war, given by Morris and wife, grant and convey a fee
simple in the parts of the land contained in the settlement,
and do not mention a life estate. In-settling the line with
Connecticut, the surrender to the crown does not mention
the trust deed; the parties style themselves owners and
proprietors, and the grant of land, in consideration of the
surrender, is to Roger Morris, and not subject to the pretended settlement. Beverly Robinson, a trustee under the deed
of 1758, should have protected the trust, but he was a party
to the compromise with the crown, under which five thousand
acres were acquired in his own right by Roger Morr;c

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et aL]

The misdirection of the court was in telling the jury that
the evidence by which the delivery was brought into doubt
was of no legal effect or importance. There was one error
which pervaded every part of the charge in this particular.
While the question was, whether there was any deed, duly
perfected by delivery, under which the children had rights;,
the judge assumed that fact and made it the basis of destroying the legal-effect of that evidence, given to disprove
it. That this was a dorinant deed, which had slept for
twenty-nine years, went very strongly to impeach its validity;
and the judge said, "there is weight in this, or rather there
would be weight in it, if the parties in interest had slept on
their rights." He then says, , the children have not slept,"
and asks, "is it fair in such acase to draw any inference
against the children." This assumes the very fact in controversy, that there was a deed;, and therefore that, it ws
improper to draw any inference against the children from
the acts or omissions of others.
He also contended, that the court misdirected the jury upon the omission to record the deed, and on the acts and
conveyances of Morris and wife in disregard of the deed
of 1758.

Several of the deeds are disposed of by the court, by saying they were to settle boundaries; but they asserted a right
to the lands in fee, and for what purpose they were made, was
of no moment. In relation to the leases, the judge said that
Morris and wife, "in strictness of law," had no power to make
them; but he adds, "how is that to affect the rights of the
children'" This was equivalent to saying the children had
rights; the very question in the cause.
Upon the whole, it is evident that the court left nothing to
the jury on the question of delivery. He also said, that in
his charge he had laid before the jury all the circumstances
relative to the question of delivery; but he had omitted to
state that this deed came out of the hands of the graintor;
and some other facts important to the cause.
The judge should have instructed the jury that this was
a proper case for presuming a re-conveyance.

SUPREME COURT.
Uarver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

The judge told -.the jury that they might. presume a re
conveyance, if they thought the 6vidence would warrant the
presumption; but he also said that in his it. gmen, hmL--ete
depended principally upon other grounds. It was 'in. act
saying that -it was 'not a proper case for presuming a reconveyance.
The presumption of such a conveyance was in accordance
with the actual holding of the property from'1758 to theday
of the trial; and all the parties connected with the title haye
acted at all times as though such were thefact.
In New York, and the local law governg in this case, the
rule, concerninig presumptions of conveyances is in favour of
the clainis of the planitiff in error here. 2 Wendell's Rep.
36. Ham vs. Schuyler, 4 Johns. Ch. Rep. So too in England, a re-conveyance of the legal estate was presumed after
a -great lapse of time, though the possession was not originally adverse, but under a trust. And this case received the
sanction of this court in Provost vs. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 418.
Roger Morris and Mary his wife, under the marriage
settlement deed, had an interest in the land, and might
convey, in fee, to the amount of 4hree thousand pounds in
value. They did convey to the amount of one thousand
one hundred aud ninety-five pounds in value, and the residue of that interest was forfeited to and vested in the people
of the state of New York; and the power was well executed
by the conveyance of the commissioners of forfeitures to
Timothy Carver, the def~endant's grantor.
In relation to the deeds to Hill and Merritt, the judge
held that they were a good execution of the power in the
settlement-deed: but on this part of the case'he held, admitting that the unexecuted portion of the power passed to
the state by the forfeiture, yet that the conveyance to Timothy Carver by the state was not a good execution of the
power. If Morris and wife could execute the power without
reciting or professing to ac under it, why could not the.state
do the same after they acquired the title!
If the power is to be regarded as dn exception out of the
grant, then.Morris and wife had an interest or estate in the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astoret al.]

-"

land, and tbey.might convey-without -reciting. the power.
And it is equally clear thut the residue of that interest or
-estate not aliened, passed by the forfeiture; and so the defendant acquired a good title by-the deed from.the comrmiis"
sioners.
We think this power-received different constructions upon
different questions: and that either the Hill and Merritt
deeds were inconsistent with the settlement deed; or,that the
defendant acquired a good title -under-the commissioners'
deed.
The whole title, -both in law andequity, which-may or
can have vested in, the children and. heirs of Roger Morris
and Mary his wife, of, in and to the hnds akc, premises'in
question; has not been, as betiveen the- grantors and-grantee,
legally transferred to the said John Jacob Astor. his. heirs
and assigns.
A proper deed of conveyance in, fee simple,- from- tl-'said John Jhcob Astor, and all persons Olaiming underi him,.
to the people'of the state of New York, would not be valid
and effectual,.to release, tran.fer, and. extinguish, all right,
title and interest, which now is, or may- base been 'vested in
the children and heirs of the said Roger Morris and Mary
his wife.
These questions arise upon the admissions.made by the
parties-before the jury, and which appear upon the record.
If the iemainder to the children was contingent, and not
to vest until the death of both their pirerts, then it is quite
clear'that it cofild not be aliened until the-question-of survivorship was determined. But if the court.should hold that
the remainder to the, children 'was vested, subject to be
divested by way of a shifting of the use, on the event of
their dying before their mother; hen we contefid that they
could not alien to a stranger, although they might release
to. a- person having ah interest in the land. And if the conyeyance would bind the party to it by wdy of estoppel, still
it would not bind-their heirs.. Goodlittle vs. Faulkner, 3 T.
R. 365. Kercheval vs. Triplett, 1 Marshall's Ken. Rep.
494. 1 Preston on Est. 75, 76. Viner's Ab. Release, G.
Lampet's case, 10 Coke, 46. Hoe's case, 5 Coke 71. Coin.
VOL. IV.-G

60

SUPREME COURT.'
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dam. Astor et 41.]

Dig. Grant, D. Assignment, C. 3. Davis V8. Hayden, 9 Mass.
514, 19.
The plaintiff was bound to pay for 'the improvements
upon the land, by which its value had-been increased.'
The substance of the provisions of the acts of the iegislature of New York is : that the purchaser, of any forfeited
estate, in chse of eviction, should .be paid the value, at the
time of the eviction, of the improvements he had made on
the land; not for his labour or expenditures, but the amount
by which, that labour and those expenditures should have
increased the value of the land. The party who recovered
his land would only pay the difference between the value
of the land at the time of the recovery, and what it would
be worth at'the time of the recovery without the labour and
expenditures of the party evicted. This provision is both
just and equitable.
I It is contended, that these.provisions
of the laws of New
York are in conflict with the treaty, with England in 1783.
,The acts are general ii their terms and in their operation ; they have no relation to the character or country of
the person who-should recover lands w'hich had been sold
or confiscated; they operate on all.
A partial. legislation, prejudicial to British subjects, was
the thing, it was the object of the British government to provide against.
Did the British government intend to ask, or ours to give,
privileges and. immunities, or exemptions to British subjects
that were not accorded to our own citizens .
The legislature might perhaps have
adopted such violent
measures in relation to confiscated estates, which would have
been unjust to our own citizens and to Bxitish subjects; and
against such acts the treaty was intended to guard. But it
cannot be. supposed that the provision of the treaty was to
extend to interfere with regulations founded upon the principles of national justice.
What were " the.just rights" of persons having an interest
in confiscated lanids I Not a right to the future labour of
others, by which the value of the lands should be enhanced.
In 1783, no British subject had a "just right" to the in-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
Astor et al.]
[Carvei vs. Jackson ex demn.

creased value which James Carver should give to the lands
after the year 1786, When the law was passed.
Mr Ogden, for the -defendant in error,
In 1754, Mary Philipse was seised in fee of a part of what
was then called- Philipse Upper Manor," of which the premises in dispute in this .suit are a portion. Mary Phil ipse
is therefore the source from which both parties derive title].
Thb plaintiff in the court below must show that he has a
good title under Mary Philipse. He claims under a deedof
marriage settlement, executed by Mary Philipse, in consideration of her intended marriage with Roger Morris.
Was this deed executed and delivered by Mary Philipse .
This is a pure question of fact to be decided by a jury. The
jury have found the fact ; their verdict is conclusive, unless
the judge of the circuit court has misdirected the jury in the
law. - If the misdirection of the judge was as to facts, it may
have furnished ground for a new trial in the court below,
but not for a reversal of the judgment here. 1 Serg. & Rawle,
333, 336. If no illegal evidence was admitted, the judgment
is conclusive.
The proof of the execution of the deed, and 'of its delivery, was made by the deposition of Mr Livingston in 1787,
and by proof of the hand writing of the witnesses who are
dead. This is the ordinary proof on such matters; all the
other proof was brought forward by the defendant, all of
which was given to 'the jury. This evidence was not illegal.
If all the circumstances of this case are to be reviewed by
this court, what are they !. The proof of the deed bad been
*made by Mr Livingston, after it had been before tlie legislature, and the claims of those under whom the plaintiff
claims had become the subjects of inquiry.
It is objected that the deed was never, heard of'before the
revolutionary war, and that it had never been produced until the interests of the parties required its production. Had
the parties who now exhibit the claim on the defendant 'considered it as an ihoperative instrument, they would have destroyed it, and have claimed from the crown a compensation
for the land, as a part of the loss sustained by the wa. But if

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jacicaon ex dem.-Astor et al.]

any conclusions. can be drawn from thege facts, they were
properly for the jury. As to the fact, whether the deed had
been seeh before the war; it may have existed, and yet not
appear to this court, as the case is before this cotirt on a bill
of exceptions.
As to the deed' not having been recorded at the time
of its execution, there was. no law in force requiring that
it-should be put on" record. There is no strength in the
argument, that as the -ther muniments of title were on record, the fact that this deed is not found on record autho-,
rises the belief that it never existed as a valid conveyance.
A patent is always recorded before it issues. The deed to
lead to uses, in the proceedings to bar the entail, was a part
of fhe comrhon recovery. The deed of partition, which
operated on lands twenty miles square, divided among three
children, must have been recorded for the satisfaction of
purchasers. But the settlement deed affected only the parties to it, and its recording was notcalled for.
Nor is- it evidence that no such deed was in force, that,
in the conveyances made by Roger Morris and wife, after
its execution, this deed was not mentioned. This was of
no consequence in-tranisferring property to strangers. But if
these facts are of any value, they were proper for the jury in
determining on the question of delivery, or on'the presumption of a reconveyance.
In the marriage settlement, a power to convey lands to
the amount of three thousand pounds was reserved, and conveyances of-one -thousand one hundred and ninety-five
pounds were made. This power was properly executed
without reciting that it. was derived from the settlement
deed. As to the presumption of a recQnveyance, it is argued that a possession of seventy years was inconsistent
with the marriage deed. But this was not the fact. In the
year 1787, the deed was proved before judge Hobart, and
was then recorded; and the claims of the children of Roger
and Mary Morris were soon. after presented to the legislature of New York. It is a universal principle of law, that if
possession be-consistent with a- deed, it shall be presumed
to be under it. In this case the acts of Roger*Morris and

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dern. Astor et al.]

wife in the sale of the land, in granting leases, were of this
character, and should be so qonsidered.
It is contended by the counsel for the plaintiff" ir error,
that the recital: of the lease in the settlemnt deed does not
bind him, because he -does not hold under -that'deed ; and
does not bind the state of New York, his grantor,- because
of its sovereign character. In answer to-the first, it may be
said4 that if the plaintiff is not bound by the recitals, yet
they were evidence which went properly Io the jury, and
their verdict has affirmed them. To the second, it is submitted, that although the king is not bound by recitalsjn his
own deed, he is bound by those in deeds under. which he
claims. Matthews, 201. 'What was the legal operation of
the deed .-It was the conveyance of the estate to trustees
for the use of Roger ,Morris and wife for life, remainder to
their children, and if no children,, a contingent remainder
over to Mary Morris and her devisees. The remainder to the
children was at first contingent, which vested at the birth of
those who were born aftereach child, and opened to.let in.
wards. Cruise,. Rem. ch. 5, p. 346, 2W.4, 336, ch.. 4,: sec.
16,ch. 5, sec. 11,-p. 350.
It is said that the remainders were-deqtroyed, by the operation of the acts of attainder and forfeiture, and the conveyance-by the state of New York. That these were equiva,lent to a feoffment, and destroyed the particular estate, and
consequently the remairiders. But the-"conveyance of the
state'with warranty, was not equal to a feoffment. There
was no livery of seisin, and .he operation of conveyances
which pass thp whole estate is confined to those -vith livery
6f seisin.
Nor was the attainder and banishment of Morris -and wife
a. civil death. The treaty of peace repealed the banishmeilt,
and thbs restored, them to civil "exisience. The estate depended, by the terms ofits grant, on the natural' death of the.
grantors.
And the- law is, that if a particular estate is determined
the remainder man might enter, but he is not compelled to
do so. 2 Ves. Sen. 482. :7East, 32. The act of attainder
-

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver s. Jackson ex dem. Astor et a'.]

intended to forfeit only the interest of Roger Morris and
wife. Its terms extend no farther, and such only could be its
operation. The offence charged against them was not treason, and no forfeiture was effected, but according to the
words of the law. 2 Johns. Rep. 248. A condition or possibility was not.forfeited. 4 Mason, 174. The act did not
intend to terminate the estate of Roger Morris aid wife,
but to transfer it to the state of New York, and to continue
it afterwards. Thus, for all purposes of sustaining the remnainders, it did continue, and their estate being limited
to their lives, is now fully determined by their death; and
their childreo, under whom the plaintiff below claimed, were
fully entitled to the land.
As to the claim to be paid for the improvements, the treaty
of 1782 confirmed all unforfeited estatei, and protected them
from state legislation. The rights of those interested in
lands were then vested, and could not be impaired. In 1782
the'land held by the plaintiff in error was conveyed to him,
and the acts of the legislature of New York, under which he
claims to be paid for his improvements, were passed in 1784:
and 1786. He did not buy the land on the faith of these
acts; and he has no claim to their legal provisions, or to any
equities under them.
Mr Wirt, also for the defendant in error, said; this case
arises under the attainder a6d confiscation act of the state of
New York. The confiscation having fallen on the estate of
Roger Morris and Mary his wife, under which the property
was sold,-and the remainder in the children of Morris and wife
having been, as is contended by thee defendants in error, protected by the treaty of peace, was sold to John Jacob Astor,
and is now claimed under that purchase.
As the state of New York had sold the estate, under the
confiscating law, claiming' the fee simple to be forfeited, it
considered itself responsible to the .purchasers, should their
grantees be ousted, after the life estate acknowledged to have
been in Morris and wife should terminate.
Under these circumstances Mr Astor thought it advisable
to present his claim to the legislature of New York, and cer-

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

tain acts were passed, by 'force of which, should the titlr'be
established, by competent and designated judicial proceedings, to be in him, the state of New York has offered to pay
him four hundred end fifty thousand dollars, on his executing a full and complete conveyance of the estate, both in
law and equity; Which sum is to be reduced to two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars, if it shall be determined that he
shall be liable to pay for the improvements made on the coifiscated property, since the sale by the state.
The acts provide, that as a test of the real merits of Mr
Astor's title, five suits in ejectment shall be prosecuted to
judgment, and the decisinn of three actions out of the five
shall be conclusive on all parties.
Under these acts the'trial in question has been had, not
under the general law of ejectment which prevails in the
state, but under the special provisions made for the case,
and deranging the general rules of evidence in some particulars. On this trial the verdict and judgment were in favour
of Mr Astor; and the defendant has brought the case here
by writ of error, upon which writ no questions are open for
consideration, but errors in law committed on the trial.
Whether the jury decided properly on the evidence is no
question for this court. Such.suggestions could only have
been properly made on a motion for a new trial, or if the'
case were hbre on a demurrer to evidence.The errors alleged to have been committed on the, trial,
may be divided into four classes:
1.Errors in the admission and rejection, of evidence.
2. Errors in the construction -of the deed of marriage
settlement, and the operation of the act-of attainder and
confiscation.
3. Errors in the charge to the-jury.
4. Errors in awarding the writ of .possession; qithout
requiring the plaintiff to pay for the improvements.
1. Errors in the admission and -rejection. of evidence.
This- was a prolific, head
exceptions,- and in order to
estimate them correctly the court must advert to the pre-.
cise point, of the con.roversy at. which they arose, and 'the
situation of the part es to the suit.

56

SUPREME COURT.
[Carvervs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et a.j

In 1-758, the marriage settlement, the purport of which
has been frequently stated in argument, was, executed
between Roger Morris, Mary Philipse, and the trustees,
Beverly Robinson and Joanna Philipse, the mother of Mary
Philipse. The contingent rem-ainder limited by the deed
to the children in fee, becdmeiVe-sted on their births; and
all the children having been born before the. year 1779, the
condition of the-property at that time was; that Mclrris and
wife held an estate for life .in it, with a remainder in -fee to
their .children, which remainder continued in them until
1809, when they-sold the same to Mr Astor.
The defendant claims under the act of attainder and confiscation of-New York, passed on the 22d of October 1779.
The' estate, forfeited by that act was all that which Roger
and Mary- Morris had on the day of- its. passage. This
we say was a life estate- merely as it regards fhe premises
in this suit; -leaving the remainder in -fee in the children untouched.
How is this act 'to be. construed! As a forfeiture for
treason ? If so, the forfeiture would have relation only to
the time of the offence for avoiding all subsequent alienations of land. 2 Hawk. ch. 49, sec. 30. But the courts of
New York have expressly decided it is not to be considered
as imposing a forfeiture for treason ;. that the act was a specified Offence, and -not treason; and that the extent of the
forfeiture.is to be sought for only in the act itself. This
court has held that state decisions on state laws are binding
here,
The forfeiture is not therefore of the estate of Mary
Morris as it came to her from her father,.but as it was subject-to all her. conveyances of all or any part of it, and to
any dispositions she may have made of it, up to the time 6f
the enactment of- the law.
If then the deed of 1-758, under which we claim, was really.
executed, being a prior alienatiob, the title of the state. and
of her grantees is baried. Thus, both plaintiff and defend-'
ant claim under Mary Philipse, they are both privies to her
and to her estate. The plaintiff below is a privy by deed,
the defendant a privy by law.

JANUARY TERM 1830
[Carver Vs, Jackson ex der. Astor et al.]

Could the state, on the trial of the cause, have been considered as a stranger 9 They claim the estate of Morris and
wife. They took the estate they held in October 1779, and
they were consequently bound by all their prior alienations.
The state are not indeed privies in blood, nbr in deed,. by
voluntary alienation; but they are privies in law, like-the
lord by escheat or forfeiture. They belong to the class of
those who come in by act of law, or "in the post," as lord
Cokd terms it. Coke Lit. 352 (a). And thus, being privies
in law, they are bound by the same rules of evidence, and
by the same estoppels, as privies in blood, or privies in
deed.
Mr Wirt then went into a particular examination of the
decision of the court below on the admission of the deed of
release in evidence. He contended, that on.the proof of the
deed by Mr Livingston, and on the evidence of Mr Hoffman and Mr Benson of the hand writing of the subscribifig
witnesses, they being dead, it was competent evidence.
Cited, 1 Starkie, 333, 340, 341.
The defendant, he argued, did not question the sealing of
the deed, but he did. question its delivery, and he offered
circumstances as evidence to lead to the presumption, that
the deed, although solemnly prepared, had never been delivered.
All these circumstances were admitted in -evidence by the
plaintiff below, without objection; none were 'excluded by
the court; and the defendant had the full benefit of them.
They bore on a question of fact, the delivery of the deed;
and their effect belonged -to thb jury exclusively, who have
found that-the deed was delivered. These circumstances,
and the effect of the testimony do not belong to the argument here. All that is to be inquired into is; whether the
judge committed an error in law on this subject. No
such error existed; none will be found in the charge: The
instructions of the court to the jury, left to them the decision of the value and weight of the evidence.
He contended, 1. That the recital of the deed was not
only some evidence of the existence -of the lease, but that
in this case, it was an actual estoppel against the state- of
VOL. IV.-H

58

SUPREME COURT.
_N

[Carver vs. Jackson ex dew. Astor et al]

New York to deny its existence. 2. That if it was not an
estoppel, it was unquestionably evidence to the extent to
which it was admitted.
If it was an estoppel, all questions which arise upon the
exclusion of the auxiliary proof are superseded; for it could
r3ot prejudice the'defendant to have let in such proof tQ
establish a fact which he was *already estopped to deny.
It is assumed as a proposition, that the.recital of a lease
,in a deed of release is evidence'not only against the releasor,
but against all who claim under him by subsequent title,
whether they deduce tleir title through the deed or not.
That such a recital is not only evidence, but is an estoppel
which binds the releasor and all who take the estate in his
right by subsequent title derived from him; and it is only.
against strangers in estate and blood, having no privity with
the dne who has made the recital, that the existence and loss
of the recited instrument is required to be proved aliunde.
The distinction that the recital binds those only who
claim the estate through the deed, cannot be sound; because
it is admitted' that such a'recital binds the heir, who does not
claim through the deed, but through a line of descents, or
of'descents and devises, blended, without the necessity of
calling to his hid any collateral deed made by any of his ancestors ; and yet he is bound not only by th6 deeds of his
ancestors, but by all their recitals.
Why is he bound '. Because he takes the property under
the ,ancestor, precisely as the dncestor held it, claiming it in
right of his ancestor; and is therefore bound by everyadmission under seal which would bind that ancestor. This
is precisely the case with the state 'of New York. She took
the estate under the same principles, and bound by the same
admissions, not as a privy in blood, but by privity of law;
which it will be shown is the same in effect according to
the doctrine of estoppels.
The state ofNew York is not.an alienee for a valuable consideration, she stands in a situation resembling rather that
of the heir,.than that of such an alienee. The estate of the
ancestor descends on the heir. by the general law of the
land; this estate vests in the state under a particular law.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dew. Astor et al.]

In both instances it vests in the same character, and in the
same right; in the precise situation in which it was held by
the person last seised.
The authorities maintain the priLciples and the positions
here assumed. Gilbert's Ev. by Lofft, 101. 1 Phil. Ev.
355. 1 Saunders on Pleading and Evidence, 42. Peake,
164. 1 Stark. 369. .6 Mod. 44. 1 Salk. 285. 2 Levinz,
108, 242. Vaughan, 74. .4 Binney,. 231. Penrose vs.
Griffith, 6 Binney, 416.
*Theprinciples settled by those cases are, that recitals bind
the party and all who claim under him by suLsequent conveyances, but not those who claim under him by conveyance
prior to the reciting deed. The operation of the recitals
is not confined to those who claim under the specific deed
of recital, but extends to all who claim by subsequent title.
Now the plaintiff in error is just in this predicament, for
he claims under the same grantor by title derived subsequently to the date of the reciting deed. He claims under
those who themselves claim under that deed; he claims the
very interest which the deed moulds and limits, and therefore may be said to claim under the deed.
But while'none of the cases which have been cited recognize this distinction, there are others which seeni to put an
end to it entirely. Marchioness of'Annandale vs. Harris,
2 P. Wins, 432. Doe ex *dem. of Colden vs. Cornell, 3
Johns. Cases, 174.
We are told by Lord Coke, Co. Lit. 352, that recitals are
:reciprocal. Such too is the law of New York. Lansing
vs. Montgomery, 2 Johns. Rep. 382. And therefore, since
the state can estop the heir by such a recital, the state shall
herself be estopped by a similar recital. Suppose that the
deed of release had settled the estate on Roger Morris in
fee, and that the act of attainder and forieiture had fallen
on his person alone ? Can there'be a doubt that the purchaser under the state would have defended himself under
the lease, and that the wife and children would have been
estopped from denying its existence. The decision in Denn
.vs. Cornell establishes this. 3 Johns. Cases, 174.
But if the release is not an estoppel, the judge -in the

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.)

court below did not err; for he did not admit it as an estoppel, but only as some evidence of the existence of the-lease.
Was he wrong in this . The cases which have been cited
to prove it an estoppel, do at least psthblish that it is evidence ; that is, some evidence against the parties, and all who
claim under them. Matthews on Presumptive Proof, 201.
See also Garwood et a]. vs. Dennis, 4 Binn. 814. 3 Preston
on Estates, 28, 29, 730, 31.
If the court were not to regard the recital as som9 evidence that a lease had been executed, what was to be done
with thQ release whic6 bad been proved, and was regularly
in evidence. Could they.regard it as a simple bargain and
sale, vestingthe whole legal estate in the,trustees, and learv..
ing equitable estates only in Roger Morris and wife, and in
their children . - The instrument disavowed that character
for itself. •It declared itself to be a deed founded on a lease;
and its design to be, to transfer the uses into possession,
under the statute of uses. The instrument being 'in the
cause could not be got out of it, and the recital is part of it.
The court were to give its legal character to the instrument,
and on the truth of the recital its legal character depended: was not the recital enough to justify the court in saying,
it appears there was a leas,.; ,you must produce the lease or
account for its non-production . If the court could Eave
said ihi's,' it is enough to justifythe opinion which was expressed; for such was simply the effect of the opinion-which
was expressed.
Upon 'the alleged errors in the legal construction of the
deed of marriage settlement, and the operation of the act of
coniscation and attainder; Mr Wirt observed that the first
point in which error is stated to have existed, was in holdifig,
that under the marriage settlement there was ' a vested remainder in the children, on the 22d of October 1779, the
date. of the act -of confiscation. The children were all born
before 1779, and the remainder vested on their birth,
The question is, as to the legal effect of ..the limitation to
the children? The construction of the circuit court; Which
we support, is 1. That the xemainder in fee limited to the
children was contingent until the birth of the first child.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

2. That on the birth of the first child the whole remainder
vested in-fee.
3. That on the birth of the second child the remainder
vested in the first opened to receive him, and so on until all
the children were born, when'it became a vested remainder
in the whole.
On the other side, the position is, that the remainder did
not vest on the birth of the children; but continued to be a
contingent remainder, until it should be seen whether the
children would survive the mother; because the enjoyment6f the estate depended on' that contingency, for if the mother
should survive she took the remainder.
We apprehend that the counsel for the plaintiffs has not
sufficiently adverted to the distinction between the contingency on which a remainder is to vest in- interest, and -that
on which it is to vest ii possession.- Vested remrindersjare
still contingent as to-the enjoyment during the-continuance
of the particular estate; and by the death of a remainderman
for life, before the determination of the particular estate,
the vested remainder is gone for ever; it is divested on this
event, and goes over to the ulterior remaindermdn. During
the life of the remainderman, however, it continued to be
a vested remainder; for it.was vested in interest, however
uncertain the enjoyment.
The distinction between a vested'and -a contingent remainder does not depend on the contingency on which it is
to vest in possession, but on that on which it is to vest in
interest. The question, and the only question is this,-is the
remaindetman in esse, and capable of taking, if the life
estate should'determine 9 If he be, the remainder is at once
a vested remainder, though it may be'unceitain whether it
will ever vest in-enjoyment. . Fearne, 215, 216.
Now the children of Roger Morris and wife were in qsse
before the year 1779, a'nd were capable of taking in possession, if the possession had become vacant by the death of the
tenant for life. They had therefore a vested estate,
As to the objection that they were not capable of taking.
the possession during the life of their parents. This is confounding the capability to take the possession, with the right

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et aL.]

to take it. In any vested remainder the capacity to take the
possession arises before the right to take it. That capacity
exists as soon as there is a person in esse who meets the description of -the remaindermhan, and nothing is interposed
between him and the possession except the particular estate,
while the right to take it isyet in suspense until the determination of the particular estate. And as soon as a remainderman is presented who meets the description of the limitation, -and between whom and the possession nothing stands
but the particular estate,' the remainder .vests in interest,
though it may chance, never to come into possession; for
many are the vested remainders which 'have .passed away,
wilhout having vested in possession.
On the 1st of October 1779, there was a life estate in the
parents; there were children of the marriage, remaindermen,
all in esse, and nothing. interposed between them' and the
possession bxcept the particular estate ; and had that particular estate ended on the 1st of October 1779, they had
capacity to take, ,and most certainly would have taken.
These principles tare fully sustained in Fearne on Remainders, '215, 216, and the cases cited by the counsel for the
plaintiff in error do not, impugn them.
The question depends on the very terms in which the remainder is limited. 'The remainder limited over has nothing
to do with the vesting of the first remainder, though it may
have -something do with, the enjoyment of the estate. Inr
this case, the limitation is not to such of the children as may
be living at the death of their parents. Such a limitation
might have artered the rights of the parties; as it would have,
temained-uncertain until the death of the parents, who would
be, and whether there would ever be a remainderman.
It isnot, however, a life estate, which is given to the
children, but an estate in fee simple. Now, upon the construction given on the other side, which considers the lives
of the children as'rufining against the life of the mother, btoth
contingent until her dtt and the survivor to take the
gstate,-suppose the children tb have died before the mother,
leaving children; was it the. intention of the settlement that
they should .bedisinherited ?

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et aL.]

By no construction can 'this be made an estate tail by implication ; but if it. could; it would not vary or affect the
vesting of the estate, subject to their dying without isine in
the life of the mother.
The authorities to show that an estate is not prevented
from- vesting in interest, though the possession may be subject to be defeated by future contingen~ies,'are Doe vs.
Perryne, 3 Tk. R. 484. 4 T. R.'39. 4 Bos. &.Pul. 313. 1
Maule & Selwyn, 321. 6 Price's Rep. 41.
It has been said for the plaintiff in error, that these were
concurrent, contingent remainders, ind that both were contingent until the survivor who was to. -enjoy the estate was
ascertaineid. This is the same position in effeerwith that to
which an answer has been given. They are not concurrent
but successive remainders; the first remairider is to the children, and failing the vesting of. that, the limitation to the
mother would survive and vest.
. Courts never consider remainders conc.urre.t contingencies, exc6pt from abiolute necessity. Fearne, 377. But if
they werer concurrent, they remained so only fintil the birth
of a child bf the marriage, and then the remainder fully
vested in such child. Luddington vs. Kime, 1 Lord Ray.
203.
The next supposed error is in the construction of the acts
of attainder and confiscation; and on the assumption that
this is a vested remainder, it is not understood to be contended that the act of confiscation would affect it.
Errors in the charge to the jury.-No important errors in
law in the charge have been insisted on, but such as have
already been the subject-of comment. The reikidue of the
objections are, that the judge, in summing up the facts, put
the evidence to the jury too favourably 'for the plaintiff below,and did *not put it sufficiently strong for the defendant.
Are the judge's rermarks upon the evidence errors in law
There is no case which supports such a position; on -the contrary it is expressly laid down, that they are not such errors.
I Serg. & Rawle, 333. Resting upon this authority, the
charge may be left to its own vindication, not doubting that
that vindication will be ample and sufficient for it.

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

As to the question of improvements.
The case is this. There are remainders in fee protected
by the treaty of 1783; and the state of New York has seized
and sold the life estate, declaring by acts subsequent to the
treaty, that with respect to all improvements made by the
tenant for life, the remainderman shall not have his estate
until he'hall have paid for those improiements.
1. Is this consistent with the nature of the estate .
2. Are these acts compatible with the treaty .
As to the first inquiry, Roger Morris and wife were tenants
for life, the remainder in fee belonging toiheir children.
The relative rightsof the parties were fixed by the deed of
marriage settlemen't.
Under this' deed could Morris and his wife charge the
remainderman in fee, with any improvements they should
put on the land . Suppose, after havin& improved the lands,
by their last will ahd testament tl sy had directed that the
remaindermen should not entel'dntil they paid for the improvements . Would such a will have operated against
their children ?. Suppose they had sold their estate for life,
,stipulating that the purchasers, before the property should.
*be taken from them after their decease by the remainderman, should be paid for all buildings and improvements
made on-the land. Would suph a, cove.uant have operated
onthe children! Under the.deed of settlement no power
thus to charge the fee was reserved. When therefore thestate ofNew York took the estate of Morris and wife, they
held it as it had been held, and they succeeded to them as
tenants for life, with no other powers over the estate than
they had. Unless this was so, they took a greater estate.
than was held by them.

But the act of confiscation disclaims this. It purports to
takethe estate of Morris and wife only, and as they held it
on the 22d of October 1779. The act does not purport or
profess to disturb or impair any estate, except the estates of
persons named in it.
The state of New York could not, by mere right of Puccession to the state of Morris and wife, impose this burthen

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem.Astor et al.]

on the remaindermen, and impair'their rights. It would bea most unjust and palpable violation of the rights of propqrty, a usurpation of power altogether unwarranted by the
nature of the estate which they had takeri under the law.
Nor 'does the power.thus to charge the estate of the re.mainderman result from their general power of legislation.
It was not a. general act, which declared that all remaindermen should pay for improvements. It was confined to ,stdteg
confiscated by the act of 1779. It was in 'effect a declaration by the tenant for life, that the remainderman should
not have his estate until he paid him for his improvements.
It thus became an individual action, and was not a legislative attion.
But if it was a legislative action, its effect was anenlargement of the confiscation act of 1779. It was a new confiscation, pro tanto, imposed on these remaindermen.
Who is to receive the value of these improvements . The
acts of the state'of New York show they are to be paid for
by them; -the value is to be deducted from the sum paya-"
ble to Mr Astor, and thus the amount is to go into the fist
of the state. This is a confiscation of the estates of children for the offences of their fathers.
2. Let us turn to the treaty of 1783, and consider the
question under that treaty.
The court will perceive thai the act of 1784 has nothing.
to do with this case. That act was prospective, and the sale
to Carver was made in 1782. - It is the act of May 1786
which alone can effect this case; and by the suggestion it
appears that the claim is for improvemeuits made since that
act. Such a claim is in direct opposition to the fifth article
of the treaty of peace. The terms of the article are : "audit is agreed, that all persons who have any interest in confiscated lands, either by will, marriage 'settlement, or otherwise, shall meet with no .lawful impediment in the prosecution of their just rights."
Persons claiming an interest in lands by marriage settlement, are one of the classes put by the treaty ; and their
"just rights" are the rights they had "when the fteaty was
made. These rights were fixed at th.e time of the treat)',by
VoL. IV.-I

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et aL]

the marriage settlements, and they were to enter on their
estates-on the deat of the tenants for life, without any responsibility for the improvements placed upon them during
the tenancy.
But here is a law of New York, passed three years after
the treaty, which declares that they shall not enter on their
estates without paying the fill value of those improvements.
Is not this an "impediment" raised by this law to the prosecution of their just rights, and consequently a violation of
the treaty 7
It is -aid to be no impediment to the prosecution of their
just rights, because itIs just ihat they should pay for the improvements. This resolves itself into a question of law;
which is, whether the remainderman in fee cannot justly take
-possession of the estdte when his title to the possession commences, without paying for improvements put on the land
by the holder of the intermediate estate. This is no question to a legal mind.
In relation to'the equitable view of the question ; this is
not the case of a party who, having a right to the present
possession', has stood by bind seen valu'able improvements
put upon the' estate without disclosing his title, for the
children had no title to the possessLi until the death of
their mother.
Nor is there any thing in the argument that these improvements were inade irr ignorance of their title. Where is the
law which requires that a party thus situated shall disclose
his title ! It may also be urged, that the acts of th e legislature of New York bear upon their face evidence of a general 'knowledge that there were outstanding titles, which
might lead to the eviction of their purchasers ; and that they
are on their face levelled against the very titles which stand
protected by tle tteaty.
Mr WebsTer, for the plaintiff in error.
The first inquiry in the case was, as to the manner in which
the verdict was obtained. Was it regularly preyed that any
conveyance was ever completed, by which Mary Morris
parted with her fee in the land, 6nd which was existing as a

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

valid conveyance in October 1779 . We say it was not: because, wesay, the judge misdirected the jury on'the evidence
bearing upon that point.
We say a judge may commit errors which this court may
.correct ; either, 1. In admitting evidence which ought not
to have been admitted. 2. In rejecting what ought to have
been admitted. 3. By misstating the effect, not the weight
of evidence. 4. By misleading the jury by a wrong statq7ment to them of what the evidence really is.
The two first propositions no one will deny. Tayloe vi.
Rigg;, 1 Peters, 183, 596. Chirac vs. Reinecker, 2 Peters,
625. Dunlap vs. Patterson, 5 Cowen, 243.
The weight of evidence is for the jury. If a judge happens to say that he thinks A. more credible than B. it is a remark on evidence. If he says that it strikes him as not proved
that a bond was given, it is the saie ; not so, if he speaks of"
the tendency or effect of evidence. If he says; this evidence,
if believed, tends to establish.the party's right when it does
not; or that it does not when it does; then it is error; because, it is a remark not on evidence, but on the law of evidence. So if he 'misstates the thing to be proved, or the
object for which it is intended, or its legal bearing; this is
error.
With these general principles in view, we mean to examine" thb judge's ruling on the trial in the circuit court.
1. As to the evidence of the question of the lease. Nothing wa5 proved but by the testimony of governor Livingston
and Mr Hoffman. This was all merely formal. Governor
Livingston's oath was in the very words of the attestation,
and no more; it was written for him beforehand, and ih the
formal words of attesting an instrument. He was an old man,
swearing to a transaction then thirty years old.; and therewas
no proof, no circumstance of which he had any recollection,
but from seeing his signature. There was no more in this
than in all other certificates of attestation; they usually qertify delivery before any actual delivery ib made, and this
was the fact in one of the conveyances by Mr Astor in this
case.
The deed was doubtless'executed at the house of Mrs

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex derm. Astor et al.]

Philipse. All-this is no mote than proving his own hand. writing, in 1787; and this would have answered the same purpose. All that was proved in this case was merely formal;
it is just what would have been done if the parties had intended only to have a deed prepared, to be delivered or not,
as they should afterwards.decide,-as an escrow. It is certain
he did not- see any-actual deliver& of 'the deed; and, while
nothing is imputed to governor Livingston, his testimony
goes no further than has been stated.
There was no other proof of the existence of this paper,
until it was proved in April 1787. It is not traced to the
hands of the grantees. No. one ever saw it; it was not shown
to the legislature. Perhaps, on this evidence, and its effects,
thejudge. did not misdirect the jury.
This, though perhaps prima facie proof, was the slightest of
all proof. No actual delivery shown, no possession -of. the
deed by the grantees. Now suppose a marriage had not
taken place,.and the trustees had set up this deed; it would
have been aid at once that the pr.esumption of delivery was
overruled. Any thing else that carries an equal presumption
destroys the prima facie proof. It is, of all cases, the one
which ubsequent events might intercept the delivzry of
in,
the -deedt
We were not called upon to disprove delivery; it was
enough for us to bring the fact of delivery into doubt, every'
thing else without delivery was nothing. The judge in this
matter was right.
Now, what did we offer against this evidence. 1. The
deed was never recorded or proved: this was not required by
law, but it was, usual, especially with this family; all-their
deeds were recorded ; the first patent, the deed to lead.to
uses, the deed of partition; and the will was proved in
chancery.
The settlement deed of all others was a proper deed to be
.recorded; it was to provide for unborn children, and the practice of the family was not to be changed. The trustees
would, in accordance with their duty, prove and record this
deed, to'preserve the rights of the children.
More especially, why was not this deed proved and re-

JANUARY TERM 1830.

69

[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem.'Aotor et al.]

corded in 1783. Forfeitures were then all over; the chil,'
dren were biorn, and perhaps of men's estate. Only one part
was found, and that had been carried beyond seas. Would
prudent men have so acted. The treaty had then established
the children's rights.
Now we 'say that this part of the case was not accurately
stated to the jury. The judge asks if these circumstancqs
should operate against the children! we say they should;
and we think here is a plain misdirection in point of law.
We say that all the evidence relied upon by us, drawn from
the conduct of the immediate parties to the supposed deed,
is evidence against the children. The judge says these
facts should not operate against the children; we contend
that they should and must; and this is a direct question of
law, -not a mere remark on evidence.
Again, the judge excuses Morris from recording the deed,
becatisehe says there were at that time no 6ffices for recording deeds. But this could only be from 1775 to 1783. Our
argument ii, that if the deed had ever been d61ivered, it
would have been recorded before 1775. Is the form of this
argument fairly stated'
Is it legally stated 1 Then again,
as toL not recording in 1783 ; the judge asks, are there not
circumstances to, account for this delay of three or four
years. This is equivalent to saying that there.are such circumstances.
2. The sleeping of this setlement from 1759'to 1787,
twenty-nine years, is relied upon to prove that it never had. a
legal existence. Nor witness ever saw it. It was not heard
of by any of the .family. It is recited in none of the conveyances. These are material facts. In the history of this title
each deed recites the previbus deed, down to that now under
examination ; below it they recite not through it, but over it;
or as, if it were not in existence. There is- an absolute
absenc6 of every possible lact looking to or recognising
the existence of this deed for thirfy years.
Now is not this of itself evidence of warght and importance to rebut the presumption of delivery q
How does ihe judge answer this'? He says there would

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

have been weight in this if the children had slept thus long:
we say it is just as strong against them, for the purpose for
which'we use it, as against.Morris and wife, and the trustees.
"The children slept upon their rights:" the very question
is whether the children had'any rights. It is not whether
they shall be barred,' but whether they ever had any estate.
'Now this is- clear matter of law. "Is it fair to draw any
inference in such a case against the children !." That is, the
jury understood the judge to say; the law will warrant no
such inference. We say it will.
3. The manner of holding the property, and acts inconsistent with the title under the deed, disprove its existence.
Here is a whole series of acts .extending over many years,
-by the very persons who were parties to the supposed settlement, and absolutely irreconcilable to the idea of its
real subsistence. These- were the conveyances executecd
by Roger Morris and wife, in which the settlement yeas not
mentioned, and conveyances made in direct disaffirmance
of it. The' charge of the judge upon these matters was
altogether erroneous.
The deeds thus executed, and the agreements, indicate a
holding of the property in fee simple, not a holding under
the settlement. And the judge says; that they are within
the limitation of the power reserved in the settlement deed,
and not inconsistent with it.
Is this so . By the settlement deed, Morris and wife had
estates for life only: in the deeds they expressly covenant
they are seised in fee. Now the consistency or inconsistency of these deeds is a question of law, though the effect
of the inconsistency is a question for the jury. The judge
has said that in point of law they are consistent deeds, that
there is no inconsistency between the covenants in the deed
and the title unde: the settlement. Is this correct!
If the' judge had said that this form of executing the
powers, might have been used through mistake; that the
deeds might have been inattificially drawn.; and that the
jury might consider those circumstances; it had been well
enough. But he withdraws the whole matter at once from

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

the consideration of the jury, by directing them, as matter
of law, that there is no inconsistency. Can this be sus-,
tained .
As to the life leases, they were n6t given under the power
reserved in the settlement deed, nor in execution of the
power. They are totally inconsistent with it, and the'evidence shows a system of leasing the lands. How does the
judge dispose of these ? It was a question of intention as
we say; and the judge asks; how do.these facts affect the*
rights of the children! This is equivalent to saying they
do not affect the rights of the children at all, in poirt of
law. This is a legal direction on the effect of evidence.
Is it right? might not these acts affect the children?
Again, the judge says, did Morris intend these acts in
hostility to the children? . that is not the true- question.
The question is, whether these acts go to show that there
were no rights in the children. The truth is, the judgdproceeded altogether on the supposition that there had been
an original acknowledged right in the children; and that we
were attempting to bar that right by adverse possession.
We say these acts prove or tenol to prove that there was no
subsisting settlement, and that not only the weight but the
bearing and effect of this evidence was misstated to the
jury.
We contend that every thing from 1758 to the xevolution,
bearing either way, bears against the settlement deed, as a
subsisting deed, and for the original title; every thing giving
indications either way, indicates a holding under the original title. That in thirty years there was no act-to the
contrary, We do not say these circumstances are conclusive as matters of law, but we say they are cogent as matters
of evidence; and we say the judge substantially withdrew
the consideration-of them from the jury.
On the other important fact that the deed came, in 1787,
from the hands of the grantor, the judge said nbthing. He
omitted to notice the circumstance, although he stated that
he had mentioned all the circumstances of the case.
Then the case is : 1. That the deed, thirty years dfter its
date, is still found in the hands of the grantor, not proved,

SUPREME COURT.
[Carvd vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.)

acknowledged- or recorded. 2. That no other part of the
indenture is prbduced, lease or release, though search has
been made for it. - 3. That no one ever saw the deed from
its date until 1787. 4. That no one act was done in thirty
years, recognising the existence of the deed for thirty
years. 5. That subsequent conveyances, deducing the whole.
litle, and reciting every other conveyance in the chain, make
no mention of any such settlement deed. 6. That there is
a series of acts, deeds, conveyances and compacts, begirning within five' days of the date of the supposed settlement, and coming down to the revolution by parties to the
supposed deed, wholly .inconsistent with any idea of -its
subsistence.
Now we admit that a jury may set up the. settlement deed
against all this evidence; provided no direction be given
them after. the.evidence is put in, and provided no improper
direction be given. We do not.ask the court to decide on
the weight of evidence. But we say, if the judge misstates
the object of Ihe evidence offered, if he misdirects as to its
tendency and effects, if he states incorrectly the viexws in
which it is evidence; then the jury has been prevented from
passinginteligently on the matter. We say the directions
of the judge on these facts were not according.to the l4w of
the case.
it is alsocon'tended that the acts of the legislature of New
York were not evidence in the cause. The effect of their
introduction Wa's to chwige the parties before the jury. They
were not general laws of the land; and they were important
testimony. For the admission of such evidence a court will
reverse -a judgment. 3 Cow. 621. 16 Johns. 89. 5 Cow.
243.
Ai to the recital of.the lease in the deed of release; how
far does it bind the plaintiff in erior, and the state of New
Yorkunder which he claims.i
It is admitted that recitals estop the party to the deed,
himself and his heirs; because the heir is bound by the covenants of his ancestor. They also afiect every person claiming under the instrument, unless it was offered as presumptive
evidence of a grant in order to support a possession which

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dim. Astor et al.]

could not be accounted for but on the supposition of such
grant. These principles are fully sustained by the elementary
writers, and by. the cases in 1 Salk. 285, 286. Ford vs.
Grey, 6 Mod. 44. 4 Binney, 355. Norris's Peake, 164.
-Archbold's Pleading, 380. Saunders on Pleading and Proof.
Preston on Estates, 43. Phil. Ev. 410. 1 Salk. 276.
There is no case in which a recital has been held to bind
a person who comes in, in invitum. The alienee may be
protected by covenants. But suppose a creditor who has
-the land in execution; he takes it bound.by every thing his,debtor lfas done, not by every thing his debtor has said. It
operates by way of admission. Under what circumstances
is one man bound by the admissions of another. Suppose
an admission under hand and, seal, ihat the property is held
fraudulently. This will not bind the alienee without notice.
In the case in 1 Salk. 285, Ford vs. Grey, what is meant
by "those claiming under him " Is it the persons who
claim under the same conveyance, or merely by subsequent
deed . The court had just decided. that admissions in an
answer in chancery bind the party, but not his alienee. If
the court designed these words in their extended sense, they
would have suggested the-distinction between an answer and
a deed.
The state of New York is a stranger to the deed of Morris
and wife, and the recital should not, upon sound principles of
taw, have been admitted to prove the existence of the.lease.
But the circuit court admitted the recital to prove the existence of the lease, and also its contents." Upon the cases decided in Pennsylvania, in 4 Binney, 614, and another, the
possession wgs equivocal, and secondary evidence was called
in aid. Those decisions .turned on the special circumstances
of the case. The case in 17 Ves. 134, was a case in which
the lease was to be proved. Counsel were empl-byed to examine the papers before the conveyance. The chancellor
admitted the release, because the possession could not be
accounted for on any other ground. If possession is equivocal,. the exigency under which this case would apoly has
not arisen.
In Buller's Nisi Prius, 254, it is said, "when possession
VoL. IV.-K

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

has gone along with the deed many years, the original of
which islost or destroyed, a copy or abstract may be given
in evidence." In Matthews the doctrine is fully set forth,
188, 189, 190. And in the authorities cited, it is distinctly
stateal that the recital of a lease in the release is evidence in
those cases where auxiliary proof is admitted to make out the
presumption of a conveyance to support a possession. Now
if the possession-is equivocal, ex natura rerum, the presumption can never arise. Ricard vs. Williams, 7 Wheat. 59.
In the case before the court the possession, so far as the
acts of the parties to the alleged settlement deed are to
give it a character, has been shown to be adverse to the
terms.and purposes of-that dead, and not at any time such
as could have existed had the deed been considered operative and in force. When therefore the parties did not by
their acts give to the deed any influence, ought it to operate
on those who were entirely strangers to it, and who rely on
the acts and proceedings of the parties to the deed to prove
it had not 'a valid existence. This is to give it effect and
power over the rights of strangers, when these were *never
permitted by the parties to prevail as to themselves.
.Upon the title acquired by the children of Roger Morris,
under the deed of settlement, Mr Webster argued ;
The question upon this title is now for the first time to be
discussed. The construction which this court will give to
that deed may be in favour of Mr Astor, and carry the rule
as to contingent remainders to the extent claimed by his
counsel; but there has been no case referred to which sustains the doctrine.
In all the definitions and generaL doctrines of remainders, the counsel for both parties agree. A remainder is "a
remnant of an estate, expectant on a _particular estate,
created togather with it, at one time." A contingent remainder is a "remainder limited so as to dppend on an
event or condition which may never happen or be performed,
or which may not happen or be performed until after the dete-ruination of the preceding estate."
These contingent remainders are classified under four
divisions ;--and the fourth class is, where the contingency

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et a].]

consists in the person not being ascertained, or not in being,
at the time the limitation was made.
The remainder now in question is of this class. Unquestionably when created it was contingent, because it was
uncertain who would take. The example put by Fearne
illustrates our case, as is contended. "If an estate be limited to two for life, remainder to the survivors in fee ; the
remainder is contingent, for it is uncertain who will be the
survivor." Fearne on Rem. 9. And this case cannot range
with the principles claimed for the defendant in error.
Now it being clear that this remainder being, at the timn
of its creation, contingent, because th6 persons to take were
not ascertained; the question is, did it vest on the birth of a
child of Roger Morris and wife, or remain contingent until
the determination of the particular estate . We maintain
the latter proposition.
Our view of the question is this. The deed created an*
estate for life in Morris and wife, with a remainder (not remainders), with an alternative aspect; ori:in other words, to
be disposed of, or go in one or other of the two ways, according to the events. We think the case precisely the same as
if the words had been "an estate to Morris and wife for life,
and to the children of the marriage in fee, if the parents
-should die leaving children; otherwise to the right heirs of
Mary Morris."
It has been .argued, that the object in giving a fee to the
children was a high and leading one-that thism was th6 first'
purpose, .and all others were secondary. But the deed .will
bear no such construction.
It must be. observed that the estate to be secured was the
estate of Mary Morris. The object of the settlement was not
to divest it, but to keep it in her control, and in the line of
descent of her own right heirs. In only two events is it to
be divested from her own right heirs. 1. If she have children living, it is to go to them, who, though her heirs, would
take as purchasers. Q. The right t0 dispose of the estate.
-by will in case of her dying without issue, and give away the
estate to whom she pleased.
If she neither left children nor made a will, the estate

SUPREME COURT.
tCarver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

would go to her own right heirs. In no event was it to be
divested from her right heirs to the heirs of Morris, unless
she should desire to have it so; and thus the true object of
the settlement was no more than to point out two events,
in either of which the transmission of the estate to her right
heirs should be intercepted. To use popular language, the
estate is not vested in the children by the deed;, it is to be
settled t n them, if there. should be children surviving the
parents.
The estate is to move from the line of legal transmission,
before it can be vested in the children as purchasers,and
the removal is to take place on the happening of the contingency: this contingency we say is nothing other than the
living of the children at their parents' death, or their surviving their mother.Suppose the grant had been from a stranger to Morris and
wife for life; and after their death to their children if living;
or otherwise, to the right heirs of the wife. Would not this
have been a clear case of survivorship ? It'is stronger in this
case, where Mary Philipse is the grantor, and proposes not to
dispossess herself, nor her own right heirs; except in the
happening of-certain conditions and contingencies.
Now we-say that there is no intent or purpose manifested
by this deed,.which is not capable of being carried into full
effect according-to its nature and import as a regular remainder. It comes, as has been said, within the regular definition of a remainder - and of a contingent remainder of the
fourth class. Cited, Preston on E~tates, 119, 92, 93, 71, to
show that it is a contingent remainaer in Mr Fearne's fourth
class.
It is not pretended that the limitation could not take effect as a remainder.
For the rule of law is universal and unbending. "If a
limitation can take effect as'a remainder, "itshall not be construed to take effect under the, doctrine of shifting uses."
2 Cruise, 350. The doctrine of shifting cases is analogous to
that of executory.devises. "If there be a freehold to support
the remainder, it shall not be construed an executory devise."
Doe vs. Holmes, 3 Wilson, 243.

Luddington vs. Kime, 1

JANUARY rERM 1830.
[Carver vs.Jackson ex dern. Astor et al.

Lord Raymond, 203. 2 Cruise, 283. Douglass, 757. In
Douglass, 225, Lord Mansfield says, "it is perfectly clear
and settled, that when an estate can take effect as a remainder, it shall not be ionstrued to be. an executory devise or
shifting use." This principle precisely meets the case of the
plaintiff in error. The same point is settled, 3 T. R. 485.
2 Cruise, 285.
The counsel for the defendant in error insist that this is
a vested remainder at the birth of the first child of Morris
and wife; and that we do not-attend to the distinction between remainders vesting in interest, and vesting in enjoymen. We have endeavoured to pay a' due regard to this distinction.
A remainder vests in interest whenever the person is ascertained, and is in esse, and has a fixed right of future enjoyment. In the authority cited by, the counsel, Fearn.,
215, the remainder is absolutely limited to a person in esse.
Now in the case before the court, it was not absolutely settled that the children would take: it could not on the view
we have taken of the deed of settlement be absolutely ascertained until the parents' death.
Is is said, here is a person in esse, ascertained, and capable
to take if the particular estate falls; and it is therefore a vested
remainder. But the fallacy of this position is in this. He is
capable of taking, that is, he is the person who may take, but
he is not capable of taking, because he is not in a condition
to take. Mrs Morris had just as much capacityto take as the
children. But who shall take, is not ascertained. No one has
a fixed and absolute right, nor can this be the case until the
death of Mrs Morris. The faet§ of the case fully exemplify
the application of these principles. Mrs Morris was married,
had children, and had a brother who would be her heir at
law, should she die leaving no children. Now if she should
have survived her children, her brother would take the estate.
[s this not a case of mere survivorship. Preston, 7. Croke
Eliz. 630. Denn vs. Bagshaw, 4 D. & E. 512. 4 Johns. 61.
We say that as this remainder was capable of taking place
as a regular remainder, it cannot take effect by way of shiftAnlg use. The law is fixed upon this point; there is no prin-

78

SUPREME .COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et at.]

ciple which would induce the court to give it a construction
to operate, as a shiftihig use.
The operation of such a view of the case will show that it
cannot be adopted. A son is born : we say the estate cannot be vested, because it is not ascertained that he will have
it. If it does vest, it may defeat the whole purpose of the
settlement. The counsel for the defendants in error say it
shall vest; and if events make it necessary, we will divest it
by the doctrine of shifting uses.
What will be the consequences of such a principle '1 On
the birth of a son the remainder vests; he dies within a few
hours after his birth: where is the estate then . It cannot
go back to its original situation-once vested, it is no longer
a contingent remainder. It has gone to his paternal uncle,
out of the family. Suppose another child born, how can it
go back .? Itfiever can by shifting use; for there can be no
conveyance by shifting use, which conveyance is not provided in the deed. There is no provision in the deed that
if the estate has been once vested in the right heirs of the
children,, it shall afterwards be divested. When the estate
has once gone to the' right heirs of the children, it'is irrevocable-the whol%- force of the deed is spent.
Besides, the result would be, that to preserve the fee, to
keep it safe) it should be transmitted to the Morris family,
and be subject to forfeiture.
If the remainder was contingent, it fell on the attainder
and banishment of Roger Morris and wife. This is'the clear
doctrifie of law. Barland's case was like it. That was pronounced an escheat, and there'was no attainder, no banishment. If'a scintilla of the estate-was left in the trustees, that
passed by the "actof attainder and banishment also.
Upon the claim of the plaintiff in.error to be paid for his
improvements, he argued, that it was questionable whether
the terms of the treaty were intended to apply to such- a
case. This action is not brought to prosecute an interest in
lands, by debt or marriage settlement; but for the mere lands
tbemselves, to'which an absolute title is created by a marriage
settlement. The interest meant by the treaty was a lien on
-lands, not the lands themselves. This is apparent from an

JANUARY TERM '1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et aL.]

examination'of the terms of the treaty. Marriage settlements
are coupled with debts; and an interest in lands by debt can
only be a lien; and an interest in lands by marriage settlement, when found in this connexion, can only mean a charge
on land by settlement deed.
It is to be observed that the treaty provides for any interest in land, whether by debt, marriage settlement, or otherwise. Now, if this means a claim to the land itself, these
things would follow:
1. Suppose the children had been put into the act of attainder, they could have pleaded the treaty, because they had
an interest in the land; that is, a title to the land itself,
under the-marriage settlement. This was their "just right,"
and the confiscation act would have been an impediment.
2. Morris and wife might have sued in their life time, for they
had an interest in the land under a marriage settlement. 9,
The comprehensive term "I or otherwise," would have let in
every body named in the act. This would have repealed
all the confiscation acts at once; which the treaty did not
do. It only recommended their repeal. There is nothing
to operate against the statute but the treaty.
He contended that the treaty did not apply to this case.
Its application could not interfere wifh the rights of those
who' had improved .the property and added to its value; so
that when it was recovered, the party who recovered, obtained more than his title originally gave him. The treaty
protects the just rights of those who are included in its provisions; but the party who has recovered the land cannot say
he has a just right to the improvements made on the land-'
not made by an intruder, but by a purchaser of a title which
was good during the life of Morris and wife. The laws of
New York relative to this subject, would be in force against
her own citizens; and it could not have been intended that
British subjects should have rights and privileges greatdr
than our own citizens. The law interposes no impediment
to the recovery of the property thegrantee of the children
of Morris and vife are really entitled to; it allows them to.
recover the land in the situation it was at the time of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dqm. Astor et al.]

settlemeht, and as it was, if Morris and wife had died a
natural, instead of a civil death, in 1779.
Mr Justice Story delf~ered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the circuit court of the southern
district of New York, in a case where the plaintiff in error
Was the original defendant. The action is ejectment, brought
upon several demises; and among others, upon the demise
of John Jacob Astor. The cause was tried upon the general
issue, and a verdict rendered for the original plaintiff, upon
which judgment. was entered in his favour; andthe present
writ of error is brought to revise that judgment.
Both parties claim under Mary Philipse, who, it is admitted,
was seised of the-premises in fee in January 1758. Some
of the counts in the declaration cre founded upon demises
made by the children of Mary .Philipse,by her marriage with
R6ger Morris; aid one of whom is upon the demise of John
Jacob Astor, who claims as a grantee of the children.
Various exceptions were taken by, the original defendant
at the trials to the ruling of the court upon matters of evidence, as well as upon certain other points oflaw growing out
of the titles set up by the parties. The charge of the court
in gumming up the case to the jury, is also spread, in extenso,
upon the record; and a general exception Was taken to each
and every part of the same, on behalf of the originaldefendant. And upon all these exceptions the case is now before
US.
We take this occasion to express our decided disapprobatiob of the practice, (which seems of late to have gained
ground,) of bringing the charge of the court below, at length,
before this court for review. It is an unauthorised practice,
and extremely inconvenient both to the inferior and to the
appellate court. With the charge of the court to the jury,
upon mere matters of fact, and with its commentaries upon
the weight of evidence, this court has nothing to do. Observations of that nature are understood to be addressed to
the jury, merely for their consideration, as the ultimate
judges of matters of fact; and are entitled to no more weight
or importance, than the jury in the exercise of their own

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dern. Astor et al.]

judgment choose to give them. They neither are, nor are they
understood to be, binding upon them, as the true and conclusive exposition of the evidence(a). If, indeed, in the
summing up, the court should mistake the law, that would.
justly furnish a ground for an exception. But the exception
should be strictly confined to that mistatement; and by
being made known at the moment, would often enable the
court to correct an erroneous expression, or to explain or
qualify it, in such a manner as to make it wholly. unexceptionable, or perfectly distinct. We trust, therefore, that this
court will hereafter be spared the necessity of exaMining.
the general bearing'of such charges. It will in the present
case be ou duty, hereafter, to consider whether the objections
raised against the present charge can be supported in pOint
of law.
The original plaintiff claimed title at the trial under 4
marriage settlement, purporting to be made and executed
on the 13th of January 1758, by an indenture of release,
between Mary Philipse of the first part, Roger Morris of the
second part, and Joanna Philipse and Beverly Robinson of
the third part; whereby, in consideration of a marriage intended*to be solemnized between Roger Morris and Mary
Philipse, &c. &c. she, Mary Philipse, granted, released,
&c. unto Joanna Philipse'and Beverly.Robinson, "in their
actual possession now being, by virtue of a bargain and sale
to them thereof made for one whole year, by indenture bearing date the day next before the date of these presents, and
by force of the statute for transferring uses into possession,
and to their heirs, all ihose several lots or, parcels of land,
&c. &c." upon certain trusts and uses in the same indenture mentioned. This indenture, signed and sealed by the
parties, with the usual attestation of the subscribing witnqsses, (William Livingston .and Sarah Williams), to the
sealing and delivery thereof with a certificate of the proof
of the due execution thereof by William.Livingston (one
of the subscribing witneSses), before Judge Hobart; of the
-supreme court of New York, on the 5th of April 1787,.and
* (a) See Evans vs. Eaton, 7 Wheat. Rep. 356, 426.

VOL. IV.-L

SUPREME COURT.'
[Carver vs. Jackson ex der. Astor et al.]

a certificate. of the recording thereof in the secretary's office
of tle state 6f New York, was offered ir. evidence at the
trial by the plaintiff, and was objected to by the defendant,
upon the ground that the certificate of the execution was
not legal and compet6nt evidence, and did not entitle the
plaintiff to read the deed in evidence, without proof of
its-execution, The judge, who*presided at the trial,; overruled .the objection, and admitted the deed in evidence.
This constitutes the first exception of the defendant. A
witnesg.was then sworn, who testified that the signatures of
William Livingston and Sarah Williams to 'the deed were
in their proper hand writing, and that they were both dead.
The deed was then read in evidence. The certificate of
the probate of the deed before Judge Hobart, is in the usual
form practised in that state, excepting only that it states
with somewhat. more particularity than is usual, that Wilhiam Livingston, one of the subscribing witnespes, &c. being
duly.s w'orn, did testify and declare, "that *he was present
at or abo.t thq day of the date of the said indentuie, and
did see the within named Joanna Philipse, Beverly Robinson,
Roger Morris and Mary Philipse, sign and seal. the same
indenture, and deliver it as their and each of their voluntafy acts and deeds," &c.
We are of opinion, that under these circumstances, and
according to the laws of New York, there was sufficient
prima facie evidefice of the due execution of the indenture
(by which we mean not merely the signing and sealing, but
the delivery also), to justify the court in admitting it to bp
read to the jury; and that in the absence of all controlling
evidence, the jury would have been bound to find that it
was duly executed. We understand sufchtto be the uniform
construciibn of the laws of New- York, in -all cases where
the execution of any deed has been so, prp-ved, and has been
subsequently yecorded. The oath of a subscribing witness
before the proper magistrate, and the subsequent registration, are deemed sufficiedit, prima facie, .to establish its delivery as a deed. The objection was not, indeed, seriously
pressed at the argument.
The next exceptions of the defendant grew out of the

JANUARY TERM 1S30.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

non-production of the lease recited in the "deed of marriage
settlement, and of the insufficiency of the evidence-to establish either its original existence, or its subsequentloss. We
do not think it necessary to go into a particular examination
of the various exceptions on this head, or of the actual posture under which they were presented to the court, or of the
manner in which they were ruled by- the court. Whichever way many of the points may be decided, our opinion
proceeds upon a ground which supersedes them, and destroys all their influence upon the cause. 'We are of opinion, not only that the recital of the lease in- the deed of
marriage settlement'was evidence between these parties of
the original existence of the lease, but that it was conclusive evidence between these parties of thdt original existence; and superseded the n6cessity of introducing any other
evidence to establish it.
The reasons upon which this opinion is founded will now
be briefly expounded. To'wfhat extent, and between .what
paities, the recital- of a lease in a deed of release, (for we
need-not go into the consideration of recitals generally,) is
evidence, is a matter not laid down with much aceuracy or
precision in some of the elementary treatises on the subject
of evidence. It is laid down generally, that a recital of one
deed in another binds the parties and those who claim under them. Technically speaking, it operates as an estoppel,
and binds parties and privies privies in blood, privies in
estate, and privies, in law. But it does not bind mere strangers, or those who claim by title paramotint the deed. It
does not bind persons claiming- by an adverse title, or
persons claiming from the parties by title anterior to the date
of the reciting deed.
. Such is the general rule. But there are cases, in which
such a recital may be used as evidence even against strangers.
If for instance there be the recital of a lease in a deed of release, and in a suit against a stranger the title under the release comes in question, there the recital of the lease in such
release is not per se evidenc of the existence of the. lease.
But, if the existence and loss of the lease be esfablished by
other evidence, there the recital is admissible as secondary

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dern. Astor et al.]

proof in the absence of more perfect evidence, to establish the
contents of the lease ; and if the transaction be an ancient
one, and the possession has been long held under such release,
and is not otherwise to be accounted for, there the recital
will of itself under such circumstances materially fortify the
presumption from lapse of time and length of possession of
the original existence of the lease. Leases, like other deeds
and grants, may be presumed from long possession, which
cannot otherwise be explained; and under such' circumstances, a recital of the fact of such a lease in an old deed is
certainly far stronger presumptive proof in favour of such
possession under title, than the naked presumption arising
from a mere unexplained possession.
Such is the general result of the doctrine to be fourid in
the best elementary writers on the subject of evidence(a).
Peake on Evidence (p. 165) seems, indeed, to have entertained
a diliTrent opinion; and to have thought, even ai between the
parties, the recital was admissible as secondary evidence
only, upon proof that the lease was lost. But in this opinion
he is not supported by any modern authority; and it is very
questionable if he has not been misled by confounding the
different operations of recitals as evidence between strangers and between parties. It may not, however, be unimportant to examine a few of the authoiities in support of the
doctrine on which we rely. The cases of Marchioness of
Anandale vs. Harris, 2 P. Wins, 432, and Shelley vs. Wright,
Willes's-Rep. 9, are sufficiently direct as to the operation of
recitals by way of estoppel between the parties. In Ford vs.
Gray, 1 Salk. 285, one of the points ruled was, "that a recital of a lease in a deed of release is good evidence of such
lease against the releasor and those who claim under him ;
but as to others it is not, without proving that there was such
a deed, and it was lost .anddestroyed." The same case is reported in 6 Mod. 44, where it is said that it was ruled, "that
(a) See 1 Phillips on Evid. ch'. 8, sec. 2, p. 411. 1 Stark. Evid. part 2, sec.
123, page 301, sec. 156, page 369.
Com. Dig. Estoppel B. C. Evidence B.
5. Matthews on Presurnpt. 195, 196, 197, 198, 199, 200, 201, 202, 203, 204,
205, 206, 269. Co. Litt. 352. Mayor, &c. of Carl;sle rs. Blamire, 8 East's Rep.'
487.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dew. Astor et aL]

the recital of a lease in a deed of release is good evidence
against the releasor, and those that claim under him." It-is
then stated that "a fine was produced, but no deed declaring the uses, but a deed wvas offered in evidence, which did
recite a deed of limitation of the uses, and the question was
vhether that (recital) was evidence : and the court said that
the bare recital was not evidence ; but that if it could be
proved that such a deed had been, and lost, it would do, if
'it were recited in another." This was doubtless the same
point asserted in the latter clause of the report in Salkeld;
and, thus explained, it is perfectly consistent with the statement in Salkeld, and must be referred to a case where the
recital was offered as evidence against a stranger. In any
other point of view, it would be inconsistent with the preceding propositions, as well as with the cases in 2 P. Williams aiid Willes. In Trevivan vs. Lawrence, I Salk. 276,
the court held that the parties- and all claiming under.
them were estopped from asserting that a judgment sued
against the party as of trinity term, was not of that term,
but of another term; that very point having aiisen and beefi
decided against the party upon a scire facias on the judgment. But the court there held, (what is very material to
the present purpose) that "if a man makes a lease by indenture of D. in which he hath nothing, and afterwards purchases D. in fee, and afterwards bargains and sells it to A.
and his heirs, A. shrill be bound by this estoppel ; and, that
where an estoppel works on the interest of the lands, i.t runs
with the land into whose hands soever the larids comes ; and
an ejectment is maintainable upon the mere estoppel."
This decision is important in several respects. In the first
place it shows that an estoppel may arise by implication
from a grant, that the party hath an estate in the land, which
he may convey, and he shall be (.stopped to deny it(a). In
the next place it shows that such estoppel binds all persons
claiming the same land, not only under the same deed, but
'under any subsequent conveyance from the same party; that
(a) See also Fairtitle vs. Gilbert, 2 T. Rep. 171. Helps eL al. vs. Hereford,
2 B. & Aid. 242. Rees vs. Lloyd, Wightwick's Rep. 123.

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

is to say, it binds not merely privies in blood,, but privies
in estate, as subsequent grantees and aliene'es. In the next
place it shows that an estoppel, which (as the phrase is)
works on the interest of the land, runs. with- itinto 'whose
ever hands theland comes. Now, this last consideration comes
emphatically home to the present case. The recital of the
lease in the present release, works on the interest in the land;
the lease gave an interest in the land, and the admission of
it in the release enabled the latter to operate in the manner
which the parties intended. The estoppel, therefore, worked
on the interest in the land,'not by implication merely, but
directly.by the admission of the parties. That admission
was a muniment of the title, and asan estoppel travelled
with the title into whose ever. hands- it might afterwards
come. The same doctrine is recognized by lord chief baron
Comyn in his Digest, Estoppel B. & E. 10. In the latter
place (E. 10) he puts the case more strongly ; for he assertsthat the estoppel binds, even though all the facts are found
in a special verdict. " But," says he (and he relies on his
own authority), "where an estoppel binds the estate, and
converts it to an interest, the court will adjudge accord-'
ingly. As if A. leaves lands to B. for six years, in which he
has nothing, and then purchases a lease of the same land for
twenty-one years, and afterwards leases to C. for ten years,
and all this is found by verdict ; the court will adjudge the
lease to B. good, tlough it be so only by conclusion. A
doctrine similar in principle was asserted in this court in
Terrett vs. Taylor, 9 Cranch, 52. The distinbtion then,
which was urged at the bar, that an estoppel of this sortbinds those claiming- under the same deed, but not those
claiming by a subsequent deed under the same party, is not
well-fouded. All privies in estate by subsequent'deed are
bound in the same minner as privies-in bloQd; and so indeed is the doctrine in Comyn's Digest, Estoppel B. and in
Coke Litt. 352, a.
We may now pass to a short review of some of the American cases on -this subject.. Denro vs. Cornell, 3 Johng. Cas.
174, is strongly in point. There, lieutenant governor Colden, in 1775, made his will, and in it rdecited that he had

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et a].)

conveyed to his son David his lands in the township of
Flushing, and he then devised his other estate to his sons
Afterwards, David's estate was
and daughters, &c. &c.
of
attainder, and the defendant in
confiscated under the act
ejectment clitimed under that confiscation, and deduced his
title from the state. No deed of the Flushing estate (the
land in controversy) was proved from the father; and the
heir at law sought to recover on that ground. But the court
held, that the recital in the will, that-the testator had conveyed the estate to David, was an estoppel of the heir to
deny that fact, and bound the estate. In this case the estoppel was set up by the tenant claiming under the state, as an
estoppel running with the land. If the state or its grantee
might set up the estoppel, in favour of their title ; then, as
estoppels are reciprocal, and bind both parties, it might
have been set up against the state or its grantee. It has
been said at the bar, that the state is not bound by estoppel by any recital in a deed. That may be so, where the
recital is in its own grants or patents, for they are deemed
to be made upon suggestion of the grantee(a). But where
the state claims title under the deed, or other solemn acts
of third persons, it takes it cum onere, -and subject to all
the estoppels running with the title and estate, in the same
way as other privies in-estate.
In Penrose vs. Griffith, 4 Binn. Rep. 231, it was held
that recitals in a patent of t~le commonwealth were evidence
against it, but not against persons claiming by title paramount from the commonwealth. The court there said that
the rule of law is, that a deed 'containing a recital of another deed, is evidence of the recited deed against the grantor, and all persons claiming by title derived from him,
subsequently. The reason of thd rule is, that the recital
amounts to the confession of thie party; and that confession.
is evidence against himself, and those. who stand in his place.
But such confession can be no evidence against 'strangers.
The same doctrine was acted upon and confirmed by. the
same court, in Garwood vs. Dennis, 4 Binn. Rep. 314. In
Ca) But see Comm. bs. Pejepscot Proprietors, 10 Mass. Rep. 155.

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al]

that case the court further held, that a recital in another
deed was evidence against strangers, where the deed was
ancient, and the possession was consistent with the deed.
That case also had the peculiarity belonging to the present,
that'the- possession was of a middle nature, that is, it might
not have been held solely in consequence of the deed, for.
the party had another title ; but there never was any possession against it. There, was a double title, and the question was, to which the possession might be attributable. The
court thought that a suitable foundation of the original
existence and loss of the recited deed being laid in the
evidence, the recital in the deed was good corroborative
evidence even against strangers. And other authorities

certainly warrant this decision(a).
We think, then, that upon authority, the recital of the
lease in the deed of release in the present case was conclusive evidence upon all persons claiming under the parties in
,privity of estate; as the present defendant in ejectment did
claim: and, independently of authority, we should have
arrived at the same' result upon principle; for the recital
constitutes a part of the title, and establishes a possession
under the lease necessary to give the release its intended
operation. If works upon,the interest in the land, and
creates an estoppel, which runs with the lan'd against all
persons, in privity, under the releasors. It is as much a muniment of the title, as any covenant therein running with the
land.
This view of the matter dispenses with the necessity of
examining all the other exceptions as to the nature and
sufficiency of the proof of the original existence and loss
of the lease, and of the secondary evidence to supply its
place.
The next question is, supposing the marriage settlement
duly executed, what estate passed by it to Morris and his
wife, and their children. The uses declared in the deed are'in
(a), See, in addition to the foregoing authorities, Buller's N. P. 254. Glib.
Evid. 100, 101. Bean vs. Parker, 17 Mass. Rep. 591. Wilkinson vs. Scott, 17
Mass. Rep. 244. Inhab. Braintree vs. Inhab. Hingham, 17 Mass. Rep. 482.
Kite's Heir vs. Shrader, a Litt. Rep. 447. 2 Thomas's Co. Litt. 582, note.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
lCarver vs. Sackson ex deifi. Astor et al.]

the following terms: "to and for the use and behoof of
them, the said Joanna Philipse and Beverly Robins'n, (the
releasees,) and their heirs, until the solemnization of the
-said intended marriage; and from and immediately after the
solemnization of the said intdnded marriage, then to.the use
and behoof of the said Mary Philipse and Roger Morris,
and the survivor of them, for and during the term of their
natural lives, without impeachment of waste ; and from and
after the determination of that estate.' then to the use and
behoof of such child or children as shall or may be procreated between them, and to his, her or their heirs and
assigns forever. But in case the said Roger Morris and
Mary Philipse shall have no child or children begotten between them, or that such child or children shall happen to
die during the life time of the.said Roger and Mary, and
the said Mary should survive the said Roger, without issue,
then to the use and behoof of her thie said Mary Philipse,
and her heirs and assigns forever. And in case the said
Roger should survive the said Mar, Philipse, without any
issue by her, or that such issue is then dead without leaving
issue, then, after the decease.of the said Roger Morris, to
the only use and behoof of such person or persons, and in
such manner-and form, as the said Mary Philipse shall at
any time during the said intended marriage, devise the same
by her last will and testament," &c. &e. -There are' other
clauses not material to be mentioned.
The marriage took effect; children were born, and indeed'
all the children were born before the attainder in 1779. Mary
Morris survived her husband, and died in 1825, leaving her.
children, the lessors of the plaintiff, survi ving her. The conveyance taking -effect by the statute of uses, upon a deed
operating by way of transmutation of possession; no difficulty
arises in giving full effect; by way of springing or shifting or
executory uses, to,all the limitations, in whatever manner they
may be construed. The counsel for the original .defendant
contend, that the parents take a life estate; and that there is
a re'nainder upon a'contingency, with a double aspect.
Tha. the remainder to the children is upon the contingency
of their surviving their parents; and in case of their nonVoL. IV.-M

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

survivorship, there is an alternative remainder to the mother,
which would take effect in lieu of the other. That, consequently, the remainder to the children was a contingent
remainder 'during the life of their parents; and as such it
was destroyed by the proceedings and sale under the act of
attainder and banishment of 1779. The circuit court was
of a different opinion; and held, that the remainder to the
children was contingent until the birth oi a child, and then
vested in such child, and opened to let in after born children; and that there being a vested remainder in the children at the time of the act of 1779, it stands unaffected by
that act.
•We are all of opinion that the opinion of the circuit court
upon the construction of the settlement deed was correct.
It is the naural interpretation of the words of the limitations, in the order in which they stand in the declaration of
the uses. The estate -is declared to be to the parents during
their natural lives, and then to the use and behoof of such
child or children as may be procreated between them, and
to his, her, and their .heirs and assigns for ever. If we stop
here, there cannot be a possible doubt of the meaning of the
provision. There is a clear remainder in fee to the children,
which ceased to be contingent upon the birth of the first,
and opened to let in the after born children(a). It is perfectly consistent with this limitation that the estate in fee
might be defeasible, and determinable. upon a subsequent
contingency; and upon the happening of such contingency,
-might pass by way of shifting executory use, (as it might in
case of a devise by way of executory devise,) to other persons in fee; thus mounting a fee upon a fee. The existence
then of such executory limitation over,,hy way of use, would
not change the nature of the preceding limitation, and make
it contingent, afiy more than it would in the case of an executory devise. The contingency would attach, not to the
preceding limitation, but to the executory use over.
Let us now consider what is the effect of the succeeding
(a) Sei'.Doe vs. Perryn, 3 T. R. 484. Doe vs. Martin, 7 T. R. 83. Brorn.field vs. Crowder, N. R. 313. Doe vs. Pfovoost, 4 Johns. Rep. 61.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
. [Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]:

clause in the settlement deed, and see ifit be capable, consistentli with the apparent intention of the parties, of opbrating
as an alternative remainder under the double aspect of the
contingency, as contended for by the origiual defendant.
The clause is, "but in case. the said Roger Morris and Mary
shall have no such child or children begotten between them,
or thatsuch child.or children shall happen to die dring thelife time of the said Roger and Mary, and the said Mary
should survive 'the said Roger, without' issue, then, &6."
Now, it is important to observe that this clause does not'
attach any contingency to the preceding limitation to the
children, but merely states the contingency upon which the
estate over is to depend. It does not. state'that the children
.shall not take, unless they survive the parents; but that the
mother shall take in case she survives her husband, without
issue. She then, and-not the children, is to.-take in case of
the c6ntingenoy of her survivorship. It is applied to her,-and
not to them. Besides, upon the construction contended for
at the bar, if all the children should die during.the life time
of the parents, leaving any issue, such issue could not'take;
and yet a primary intention was. to provide for the issue of
the marriage. Nor in such a case could the mother take
the.estate over; for that by the termis of the settlement could
take effect only in case' she survived- her husband without
issize. The subsequent clause demonstrates this still more'
fully; for her power to dispose.of the estate by.will, in case
her husband survives her, is confined to such survivorship, if
"such issue is then dead without leaving issue."
Another difficulty in the construction contended for is, that'
the.children must'survive both the parents, and that if they
should survive the mother and not the father, in that event
they could not take,; yet the settlement plainly looks to the
event of the death of the mother withoui issue,'as that alone
in which the estate over is to have efTect. It is also the manifest intention of the settlement, that if there is any issueor
the issue of anyissue, such issue shahl take the estat6; which
can only be by construing the prior limitation in the manner
in which it is construed by this court. The general rule
of law, founded on public policy, is, that limitations of this

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

nature shall be construed to be vested, whein, and as soon as
they may. The present limitation, in its terms, purpoits to bb
Sontingent only until the birth of a child, and may then vest.
So that whether we consult the language of the settlement,
the order of its provisions, the apparent intention of the parties, orthe general rule of law, they all lead to the same results; that the estate to the children was contingent only until
their birth;.and that when the act of.1779 passed, they being
all then born, it was a vested remainder ir them and their
heirs, and not liable to be defeated by any transfer or destruction of the life estate.
This view of the settlement deed renders it wholly unnecessary. to enier upon any minute consideration of the
nature and operation of the attainder act of 1779; since it is
clear that that act) whether it worked a transfer or destruction of the life estate of the parents ; and, in our opinion
the former was its true operation; it did not displace the
vested remainder of the children, but left it to take effect
upon the regular determination of the life estate.
In respect to another point raised at the argument, that
the power reserved to Roger Morris and his wife under the
marriage settlement, to dispose of the land to the amount of
three thousand pounds, so far as it remained unexecuted by
them, was by the attainder act of 1779 transferred to the
state, and might be executed by the state; *weare of opinion,
that ityis not well fouqded... In the first place, we consider
this to be a power, personal in the parents, and to be exercised in their discretion, and not in its own nature transferable.-, Even under -the statutes of treason in England,
powets and conditions, personal to the parties, did not by an
attainder pass to the crown. I Hale's Pl. Cr. 240, 242, 244,
245, 246. Jackson vs. Catlin, 2 Johns. Rep. 248. Sugden
on Powers, 174, 176.. And it has been settled in New York,
that the offence stated inothe act, was not, strictly speaking,
treason, but,.sui generis as the-terms of t'he act stated it(a).
,In the next place, the act purports to vest in the state, by
forfeiture, the "estates" only of the offenders; and being a
(a) Jackson vs. Catlin, 2 Johns. Rep. 248,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
ECarver'vs. Jackson ez den. Astor et al.]

penal act, it is to be construed strictly. A powei to drsposer
of land in the seisin of a third person, is in no"just sense-an
e8tate in the land itself. In the next place the deed of
the commissioners authorised by the act, purports generally
t6 convey all the estate, right, title,. and interest of the offenders in the property conveyed, and does not purport to
be any execution of a limited nature and object. In every
view, the'doctrine contended-for is untenable.
Passing over, for the present; some minor exceptions,.we
may now advance to the consideration of the objections
urged against the charge of the court; and these objections,
so far as they have not been already disposed of by the questiQns growing out bf the- proofs applicable to the lease, are
to the direction of the court upon the point, .whether there
was or was not a due delivery of the marriage settlement
deed. If that-deed was duly delivered, then no acts done
after the marriage by the parents, however inconsistent with.
that deed, could affect the legal validity .ofthe rights of the
children, once acquired and vested in them under it. But
the point pressed at the'trial was, whether it was ever executed and delivered at all, so as to have become an operative
conveyance ; or whether there was a mere pominal execution
by the parties; and whether it was laid asicfe and abandoned
as a ,conveyance before the marriage, and never became.
complete by delivery. There was at the trial what the law
deems sufficient prima facie evidence of the delivery of the
deed. But certain omissions, as well as certain acts of the
parents were relied on to rebut this evidence, and to establish the conclusion, that there had been, in point'of fact, no
such delivery. With the value of these acts and circumstances,.as matters of presumption for the consideration of
the jury by way of rebutter of the prima facie evidence, this
court has nothing to do; and does not intend to express any
opinion thereon. But so far as they bore upon the fact of
delivery, they applied with the same force in relation to the
children as they did in relation to the parents; that is, so
far as they were presumptive of the non-delivery of the deed,
they furnished the same presqmption against the children
that they would against-the parents. They were open to explanation and observation, and had just as much weight .in

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

the one case as -in the other. They were not acts or omissions which bound the children, supposing them to have
any vested interest ; but circumstances of presumption to
be weighed, as far as they went, to estftblish that no inter'est
ever vested in them, by reason of the non-delivery of the
deed of settlement. Whatever might be the inconsistency
of these acts with the provisions of that deed, that inconsistency was no otherwise. important than as it might- furnish a
presumption against the existence of the deed as an operative conveyance.
It is in reference to these considerations that the argument at the bar has insisted upon objections to the charge
of the judge at the trial ; and in examining the charge on
this head, difficulties have.occurred to th& court itself.
The circumstances principally relied upon were, the dormancy of the setilement deed from 1758 to 1779 ; the omission to record it until 1787; and the supposed inconqistency
of certain deeds, executed by the parents between 1758 and
1773, with the title undei" that settlement.
In respect to the dormancy of the deed, the charge is
as follows: "It has been said that this is a dormant deed,
never intended by the parties to operate; that it had slept
until after-the attainder, and until the year 1787. There is
weight in this; or.rather there would be weight in it, if the
-partiesin interest had slept on their rights. But who has
slept . Morris and wife, Beverly Robinson and- Joanna
Philipse, the trustees. They are the persons that have slept,
and not the children. This does not justify so strong an inference against the children, as if they had slept upon their

rights.. Isit fair in such a case to draw any inference against
the children 1"
To two of the judges this appears to amount to a directiofi that in ppint of law. the 'dormancy of the deed during
this period, not having been the act of- the children, does
not furnish the same presumption of the non-delivery against
-them as it would against,the parents ; and that, to give the
presumption from this circumstance full effect, it ought to
appeer that the children had slept on their rights ; that is,
had acquiesced.in such dormancy of the title. To those

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et a].]

judges this direction seems erroneous, because the premumption is the same whether the children acquiesced or not. In respect of the non-recording of the deed, the charge
proceeds to state. "It has also been urged that this deed
was not recorded until 1787. Is there any thing in this
fact that should operate against the children?! They, wereminors for the greater part of the time down to the year
17S7, when it was recorded, &c. &c;" It seems to the.same
judges, that the same distinction, as to the effect of the presumption in the case of the parents and that of the children,
pervades'this, as it does the former statement;
-As to the inconsistency relied on, the introductory part
of the charge i5 as follows : "It is also said that Morris and
his wife have done acts inconsistent with the deed. In
weighing the force and effect of these acts, you must bear in
mind the time when the interest vested in the children under
this deed; for after that interest vested, none but themselves
could divest it," &c. It is certainly true, that after.the interest was once vested in the children, no act, however inconsistent with the deed, done by the 'parents could affect
that interest But the point of view under which the argument was addressed to the court was, that such inconsistency
.furnished ground for a presumption of a non-delivery of the
deed; and in this point of view it seems to the same judges,
tha't this part of the charge relies too much upon a distinction between the parents and children, as to the effect of the
presumption. In another part of the charge, the judge very
properly puts all -these acts of supposed. inconsistsncy upon
the true groun&: what was the interest of the parties in these
acts; and whether they were done in hostility to th- Aeed,
supposing it inoperative, or as acts of parents acting beyond
the deed for what they might deem beneficial to their children, and for the interest of all concerned in the estate.
To the other judges, however, these objections do not appear to be well founded, when taken in connection with the
general scope .and object of the remarks of the judge in his
charge upon this branch of the case. The purpose for which
these omissions and acts of alleged inconsistency in Morris
were oflbred, had been explicitly stated. The jury had been

SUPREME COURT.
tCarver vs. Jarckson ex dem. Astor et a!.]

told that they were relied upon to-rebut the evidence of dellvery -of the deed, which had been offered on the part of the
plaintiff below. ' Before entering upon any comments on this
evidence, and to prepare the minds of the jury for the due
application of the renfarks, the judge observed, "what then
is the evidence to bring' the fact of delivery into doubt.
What is the reasonable presumption to be drawn from the
facts proved! keeping in mind that this is evidence on the
part of the defendant to disprove the presumption of law,
from the facts proved, that the deed was duly delivered, The
jury were therefore fully apprised of the bearing of these
circumstances, and the purpose for which they were offered.
And they could not but have understood that it was submitted'to them to judge of the weight to which they were
entitled; otherwise the evidenc would have been excluded
as inconsistent: .and the jury muse have understood, that they
did weigh to some extent against the children; for when
speaki*ng of the objection, that the dedd had lain dormant
for a number of years, the 'jury were told, that this circumtance did, not justify so strong an inference against the
children as if they had. slept upon their rights ; thereby
admitting, that it was open to an inferenc.e against them,
but not so strong as if they had been of age, and-the life
estate of their parents ended; and they during that delay had
been in a, situation to assert their rights. And should it
be admitted that the judge erred in this suggestion, it would
amount to no more than an intimation of his opinion upon
the weight of evidence. The same remark- will apply to
every part of the charge, when the rights of the children
are spoken of in contradistinction to those of their parents.
They refer to the delivery of the deed. Thus with respect
to the delay in recording the deed; the judge puts the
question to the jury. in this form. "Is there any thing
in' the fact that it was not recorded, from which an inference can be drawn against the deed." Pointing the attention of the jury to the fact of delivery, and -not to any controlling'distinction between .the interest of the children and
their parents, the bearing of the remarks of the judge with
respect to the various deeds executed by Morris and his wife,

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carv.er vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

and which are alleged to have been inconsistent with the
marriage settlement, could not have misled the jury. Iris
true, they were told that in weighing the force and effect
of those acts, they must bear in mind the time when the interest vested in the children under the deed. This remark
must have been understood by the jury as subject to their
finding witfi respect to the delivery of the-deed; and not
as expressing an opinion that the interest of the children
vested at the date of tbe deed. For, if that bud been understood as the bpinion. of the judge, the evidence, as before
observed, would have been inadmissible, and the jury would
have been told that it could have no bearing upon the case.
Instead of -which, it had been before explained to tthem, that
the object of this evidence was to disprove the delivery of
the marriage settlement deed, and not to divest any interest,
that had become vested in the children. And in the conclusion of 'his part of-the charge, the judge tells the Jury,
"these are all the circumstances relied upon as being inconsistent with the settlement deed, and these are questions for
you. I do not wish to interfere with your duties. It is for
you to say whether the deed was duly executed and delivered."
The jury had been told, in a previous part of the charge,
that delivery of the deed. was essential in order to pass the

title, and that this was a fact for them, to decide; and it was
in conclusion left to them, in as broad a manner as could be
done. The whole scope of the charge on this point, left the
evidence open for the full consideration of the jury, and the
remarks of the judge- are no more than -a mere comment on
the weight of evidence, and as such were addressed to the

judgment of the jury, and not binding upon them. If a
decided opinion had been expressed by the judge upon the
.weight of the evidence, it is not pretended that it would be
matter of error, to be corrected here. But the charge does
not even go thus far; and it is believed by a majority of the
court, that it is-not.justly exposed to the criticisms which
have been applied to it.
In respect to that part of the charge which comments
upon the various deeds made by the parents, which .were
VOL. IV.-N

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

relied upon as inconsistent with the settlement deed; no
objection has occurred to any member of the court, except
as to the comments on. the .deeds to Hill and M"rritt, and
the life leases to other persons. In respec to the deeds to
Hill and Merritt, one judge is of opinion -thatthe statement,
"that these deeds are not inconsistent with the settlement
deed," is incorrect in point of law, because those deeds contained a covenant of seisin ; and under the settlement deed,
although Morris and wife had a right to convey the land,
they were not in'
the actual seisin of it, and therefore such
a covenant was iheonsistent with the settlement deed. But
the other judgp are of opinion,. that this part of the charge
is correct,_because Morris and wife had, fnder the settlement
deedia powir to convey in fee lands to-.a much greater
amount; that it was not necessary to recite in their deeds of
sale their power to sell ; and that the covenant.-of seisin,
being a usual muniment of title, .and not changing nthe
slightest degree the perfection of the title actudilIy conveyed.; did not, in point of law, whether there was a seisin or
not, create any repugnancy between these deeds 'and the
settlement deed. If the parties had in those deeds recited
the settlement deed alnd the power to convey, and had' then
conveyed with the same covenants, the deeds could hot have
been deemed, in point of law, inconsistent with the power
under the settlement deed; but 'ould have been deemed 'a
good execution of the power, and the covenants a mere
additional security for the title. The same -judge is also of
opinion, that the life leases which were given in evidence,
not having been made in pursuance of the power in the marriagd settlement deed, are by their terms and effect so inconsistent with it, as to authorise the jury, to find agaiaist its
delivery on this ground alone; and that the circuit court
erred in charging the jury, that the effect and operation of
these leases was not a subject for their inquiry, and that
their bearing- on the cause depended on the intention of
Morris.
To the other judges, however, the charge in this patticular. is deemed unexceptionable. The Judge decided that
these life leases were unauthorised b the power -and -the

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dern. Astor et al.1

questiob was,'what influence they ought to have upon the
point of non-delivery of the settlement deed;. they not deriving any validity or force under it. Were they acts of
ownership over the property which could not be explained
consistently with the existence of the settlement deed; ex.
were thpy acts which, though unauthorised, might fairly be
presumed to be done without any intention to disclaim the
legal title under that deed.! In.estimating this presumption, it is to be considered that these were the acts of parents,
and not of strangers. That it does not necessarily follow,
because parents do- unauthorised acts in relation to the
-estates of their children, they intend those acts as hostile
or adverse to the rights of.their children. Parents may, from
a sincere desire to promote the interest of their children, and
to increase the value of their estates, make leases for the
clearing and cultivation of their estates, which they know
to be unauthorised by law, but which, at the same time, they
feel an entire confidence will be confirmed by their children.
The very relation in which parents stand to their children,
excuses, if it does not justify such acts. It will be rare, indeed, if parents may not confidently trust that iheir acts,
done bona fide for the benefit of their children, will, from affec-tion, from interest, from filial reverence, or from a respect to
public opinion, be confirmed by them. The acts of parents
therefore, exceeding their legal authority, admit of a very
different interpretation from thoe of mere strangers. The
question in all such cases is, what were the intentions and
objects of the parents '. Did they act upon rights which
they deemed exclusively vested in themselves q or did they
act with a referer'ie to the"known interests vested in their
children!. It appears to the majority of the judges, that the
circumstance of the life leases was properly put to the jury
.as a question of intention ; and that the jury were left at
full
liberty to deduce the proper conclusion from it.
The next point is, as to the improvenents claimed by the
tenant in ejectment under the act of New. York of the 1st
of May 1786. That act delares,." that in all cases of pu*rchases made of'any fo'rfeited esrates in pursuance of any of
the laws diiecing the sale.of forfeited estates, in which any

SUPREME COURT.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.]

purchaser of such estates shall be evicted by due course of
law, in the manner mentioned, &c. &c. such purchaser shall
have like remedy for obtaining a compensation for the value
of the improvements by him or her made on' such estate, so
by him or her purchased, and from which he or she shall
be so evicted, as is directed i7and by the first clause in the"
act of the 12th of Afay 1784. The latter act declares that
the person or persons having obtained judgment,- shall not
have any writ of possession, nor obtain possession of such
lands, &c. until he, she or they shall have paid to the person
or persons possessing title thereto, derived from or under the
people of the state, the value of all improvements made
thereon after the passing of the act. Neither the act of
1784 nor of 1786, purports to give a universal remedy for
improvements in cases of eviction by title paramount; but
is confined to cases of confiscated estates, where the title
comes by sale from the state. However operative it may be
as to citizens of the state, (on which it is unnecessary to
give any opinion), .the question before us 'is, whether such
improvements can be claimed in this case consistently with
the treaty, of peace of 1783.
By the fifth article of that treaty, it is agreed, "that allpersons who have any interest in confiscated lands, either
by debts, marriage settlements, or otherwise, shall meet with
no lawful impediment in the prosecution of their just rights."
By the sixth article it is agreed, that, "there shall be no
future confiscations made, nor any prosecutions commenced
against any persbn or persons for -or by reason of the part
which he or they may have taken in the war; and that no
person shall on that account suffer any future loss or damage, either in his person, liberty, or property." We think,
that the true effect of these provisions is to guaranty to the
party all the rights and interests which he then had in confiscated and other lands, in the full force and vigour which
they then possessed. He was to meet with no impediment
to the assertion of his just rights; and no future confiscations were to be made of his interest in any land. His
just rights were at that time to have the estate, whenever
it should fall into possession, free of all incumbrances or

JANUARY TERM 1880.
[Carver vs. Jackson ex dem. Astor et al.1

liens for improvements created by the tenants for life, or
by purchasers under the state. To deny him possession,
or a writ of possession, until he should pay for all such
improvements, was an impediment'to his just rights, and
a confiscation, pro tanto, of his estate in the lands. The
argument at the bar supposes that there is a natural equity
to receive payment for all improvements made upon land.
In certain cases there mdiy be an equitable claim; but.that
in all cases a party is bound by natural justice to pay for improvements made against his will, or vithout his consent, is
a proposition which we are not prepared to admit. We
.adhere to the doctrine laid down on this subject. in Green
vs. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1.
We are of opinion that the claim for improvements in this
case, is inconsistent with the treaty of peace, and ought to
be rejected.
A number of objections, of a minor nature, are spread upon
the record; such as exceptions to the admission of evidence
to prove the common practice- to convey lands by way of
lease and release, and the admission of the journals of the
legislature; to the admission of the act of compromise between the state and John Jacob Astor; to the sufficiency of
the title ofAstor under the deed of the children of Morris
and wife, to extinguish their title, &c. &c. To all these,. we
think it unnecessary to make any farther answer, than that
they have not escaped the atterition of the court; and that
the court perceive no valid objection to the ruling of ihe
circuit court respecting them.
Upon the whole, it is the opinion of this court, that the
judgment of the circuit court be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs.

