SUPREME COURT.

JOHN BEATY,

PLAINTI F IN ERROR vi.

LER AND OTHERS,

THE LESSEE OF A. Krow-

DEFENDANT fN ERROR.

Ejectment. The defendant claimed the land in controversy under a tax salp,
which was made by a company incorporated by the legislature of Connecticut,
in 1796, called "The proprietors of tire half million of acres of land lying
south of lake Erie," and incorporated by an act of the legislature of Ohio;
passed on the 15th of April 1803, by the name of "The proprietors of the half
million of acres of land lying south of lake Erie, called the sufferers' land." In
1806 the legislature of Ohio imposed a land tax, and authorised the sale of
the lands in the state for unpaid taxes, giving to the owners the right to redeem
within one year after the determination of their minority. This act was in
force in 1808. In 1898 the directors of the company, incorporated by the
legislatures of Conneclicut and Ohio, assessed two cents per acre on the lands
of the company, for the payment of the tax laid by the state of Ohio, and
authorised the sale of those lands on which the assessments were not paid.
The Lands purchased by the defendant were the property of minors at the time
of the sale, they having been sold to pay the said assessr~ents under the authority of the directors of the company. Held, that the sale of the land under
which the defendant claimed was void.
The provisions in the act of incorporation'of Ohio, that it should be-considered
a public act, must be regarded in courts ; and its enactments noticed without
being specially pleaded, as would be necessary if the act were private. [Me7]
That a corporation is strictly limited to the exercise of those powers which are
specifically conferred on it, will not be denied. The exercise of the corporate
franchise-, being restrictive of individual rights, cannot be extended beyond the
letter and spirit of the act of incorporation. [168]
From a careful inspection of the whole act, it clearly appears that the incorporation of. the company was designed to enable the proprietors to accomplish specific objects, and that no more power was given than was considered necessary to attain those objects. [171]
The words, " all-necessar expenses, of the company," cannot be so construea
to enlarge the power to tax, which is given for specific purposes. A tax by
the state is not a necessary expense of the company, within the meaning of
the act. Such an expense can only result from the action of the company in
the exercise of its corporate powers. [171]
The provision in the tenth section, "that the directors shall have power .to do
whatever shall appear to them to be necessary and proper to be. done for the
well ordering of the interests of the proprietors, not contrary to the laws of the
state," was not intended to give unlimited power, but the exercise of a discretion within the scope of the authority conferred. [1711

FROM the circuit court of- Ohio.
This was an ejectment for lands in the state of Ohio; and
on the triain the circuit court the defendant excepted to
the charge of the court, and prosecuted this writ of error.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by Mr2J. C. Wright, for the plaintiff; and by Mr Vinton for the defendant.
Mr Wright contended, that the court below erred in their
instruction to the jury.
1. In instructing the jury, that the directors of the company incorporated by the legislaturp of Connecticut in the
year,1796, designated as the "the Proprietors of the half
millions of acres of lands lying on the south of-lake Erie," and
by a law of Ohio passed the 15th of April 1830, had no legal
authority to assess the tax on the-land, for the non-payment
of which it was.sold.
P.. That the proprietors of the land included in the provisions Of the acts, who were minors, were not bound bt the
assessment of the tax, and the sale of the land.
Ie said the only questions which arose on- the case are
these; nothing else was excepted to on the trial.
Those instirtctions involve the construction of certain
laws of Connecticut, and of the state.of Ohio ; which, in
general, have received no -interpretation from the courts in
those states.
The correctness of the instructions will depend on the law
of Ohio; that of Connecticut having been introduced to
show ihe history of the transaction out of which this controversy has arisen. But as the company was organized under the law of Ohio, and in amanner entirely different from
that of the law -of Connectirut, and- the tax was laid according tc its provisions, that is to be put out of the question.
"It was objected to'the validity of the assessment -of the
tax, that the charter ,does nbt authoiise the directors to, assess a tax to pay .that levied by the legislature of Ohio. It
is conceded'at once, that the power is not given in express
terms,-but is 'fullyincluded"in the-several powers to -assess a
Art.of the 15th of April 1803, sec. 2.
ta.
The piain-and obvious reading of'this grant of power is,
to defray all necessary expenses of the said company in
purchasing and extinguishing the Indian claims of title, surveying, locating, waking partition of the land ; .and to defray
VOL. IV.-U
-

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

all other necessary expenses of said company, power is
given," &c.
Two descriptions of powers are confided to the directors
by this provision. The first relates to expenses necessary
f6r specified objects; and the second is equally plenary tq
all purposes; "to defray the iecessary-expenses of the saiA,
company."
This power is also included in the tenth section of the act,
"to do whatever shall to them appear necessary and,proper
for the w6ll ordering and interest of the company, not contrary to the laws of the state.
If the directors, in the exercise of their discretion, thought
the money to be raised by this assessment was proper to defray necessary expenses, or useful for the well ordering of
the company, they had full power to lay the tax. It would
be difficult to employ words to convey a more unlimited discretion to the directors; and their view in. laying the tax is
clearly developed in the Vote.
"Voted unanimously that a tax of two cents on the pound
be assessed to defray the expenses of a tax .laid by the legislature of Ohio, &c. and all other necessary expenses for -the
good of the proprietors of the said land."
If the directors had power to assess the taxi then, 2. Were
the infant lessors bound by the assessment!
It will hardly be contended that minors :cannot in any
event be clothed with powers as corporators;'that is'indisputable. The resolve of the state of Connecticut released
and quit claimed to eighteen hundred individuals named.in
the act, the half million of acres, "E
and to their legal r~presentatives where dead,. and to their heirs and assigns for
ever." Swan's Ohio Land Laws, 81 to 100. The ancestor
of the lessors of the plaintiff was then alive, ande one of the
persons named in the. resolve. He took an estate in fee as
a tenant in common with all the others. In 1792 Connecticut
constituted these grantees a corporation, and gave them,
their heirs and assigns, succession as corporators; and provided that the expenses and taxeg should only be a charge
on the.land. The ancestor of the plaintiff's lessors, with the
other grantees, organized the corporation under this act, and
partook of all the powers it conferred. By his death in 1800

JANUARY TERM 1830.
EBeaty v . The Lessee of Knowler.]

the interest he held in-the land devolved upon -his heirs, sunject to the corporation ; and by the very terms of the charter
they took his place as corporators, representing together in-the
corporation the interest their parent had represented alone.
These heirs were owners and proprietors of their ancestor's
share in the lands, when Ohio incorporated them with all
"the owners and proprietors." This suit was brought in
i825. when- all the heirs were probably of age, "as the'-tax
was laid in 1808.
Under the law, the lands were divided, and two thousand
four hundred adre s were set apart for the interest of Douglass,"
the ancestor of the lessors of the plaintiff. This division, the
lessors recognize and ratify. They bring suit fora part of the
allotment assigned to them in the division ; and not for an undivided sixth of the two thousand four hundred acres, part
of the five hundred thousand acres. They avail themselves
of the act of incorporation, and yet claim they are not crporitors, -nor bound by the acts of the directors underit.
The adult,-as well as the minor heirs, have all gone on as
corporato's. No dissent was ever :expressed ; but, on the
contrary, all, as one, represent the share. If these minors are
not-bound by the acts of the corporation, all remains as at the
death of -their andestoi in 1808 ; and the.partition must be
gqne into aneW; and the separate allotment, under which the
forest has disappeared, and the wilderness has been made to
blossom, as .the rose, is all to be done afay, and the lands
thrown into common. Every thing in the country will thus
be thrown into confusion.. Would this be just to the co-tenants I and -yet it is the
inevitable result of the principles givenin the instructions to
the jury.
Vinton, for the defendant in erroil, contended,
1. That the lessors of the defendant in error were not
parties to, or bound by said acts of incorporation.
2. That the directors under the Ohio act of incorporation
had no power to assess a tax to pay a state tax of that state.
3. That the tax was void for uncertainty, it being assessed
in part for undefined purposes.
-Mr

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

4. "That the sale being conducted contrary to the manner
prescribed by the laws of Ohio, was void.
5. Tho sale was void, because the coilector omitted to give
the notice required by said act of incorporation of the time
when the tax Would become due.
It has been holden by this court, that a grant to'a private
corporation is a contract; and consequently, to bind the corporators, their assent, express or implied', must be had. Dartmouth College vs. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 659, 657, 682. Ellis
vs. Marshall, 2 Mass. 275,-279.
It therefore becomes necessary to inquire if this is a private corporation ; and if so, whether the defendants in error'
had,. by their assent, express or implied, made themselves
parties to it. In 4 Wheat. 668, 669, public corporations are
defined "to be such only as are founded by the government
for public purposes, where. the whole interests belong also
to the government." This definitioli will.test the character
of the corporation in question. The entire interegt of this
corporation consisted of private property, 'and the purpose of
the act was the regulation of that property for the benefit of
the proprietors.
The government of Ohio'had no interest in the corporation;
no'r did it. seek to attain. ainy purpose of its own by the act
of incorporation. The declared objects of the act were, to
enable the proprietors of the sufferers' lands, "to extinguish
the Indian title; to survey them into townships or otherwise,
and make*partition of them among themselves.". These are
all private' purposes, intended for their own erriblument and
advantage. The corporation is therefore, in its -nature, a
pivatd corporation. Here an inquiry arises as to the effect
of the last section of the act of.incorporation, which declares
that act to be a public act,.. A similar enactment has been
introduced into the bank charters of that state, which no one
ever imagined to be public corporations on that account.
The evident intention of this declaration is not to change
the nature of the coiporation; but to relieve the corporators
from the inconvenience of special pleading, and mitking proof
of their corporate existence, according to. the usages of the
common law, To this extent the provision , is politic and

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee pf Knowler.]

reasonable; but -to go beyond that, and give it the'effect of
making the corporation a public corporation, in the sense
of the..definition laid down, would be unreasonable, and
according to the principles settled by thiscourt in 'the Dartmouth College case, not in the power of the legislature of
Ohio. 4 Wheat. 671, 612.This brings usto the question of assent. Noexpressassent
by the defendants in error to this act of incbrporation is 'pretendea.,
An implied assent is relied upon. Jonathan Douglass, the
ancestor of the defendants in error, died in 1800. The
act of incorporation, by the legislature of Ohio, was passed
in '1803. And in .1808 the larid in- controversy was, sQld
to pay a tax assessed under that act; At the time of the
sale,. four of the defendants in error were minors; and consequently not Able in law to contractor assent-to become corporators.
Assent,. in such a case, is not one of the exceptions to the
legal.disabilities of infants: Lapse of time is relied upon to
raise a presumption of assent;, the common law fixes-the
period at which the. presumption arises, at the ehd of twenty
years; which had not elapsed when this suit was instituted.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error has. argued, that.the
present lamants took the estate of their ancestor as *he-left
it ; and. has,. on this ground, endeayoured to make out the
power- of the legislature of Ohio to bind them by its act; because the legislature df Connecticut had, in 1796, incorporated the proprietors of these lands to enable them to effect
similar objects.
. There is no proof that Jonathan Douglass ever gave his
assent to.the Connecticut act, and if he did, ithas no connexion with the present case; The affairs of the Connecti.cut cbrporation were conducted by a board -differently
organized, and called by a different name from the board of
directors which assessed the tax under which'the land in
controversy was sold. The proceedings now called in question were had under the act of Ohio. Douglass died in 1800,
andit could not be one of the conditions Z
hib Jbis heirs
inherited his estate "hat they should become parties to dn
act of incorporation that the statQ of Ohio, which then'had

SUPREME- COURT.
[Beaty vs. Thie Lessee of Knowler.]

no. being as a state, might pass three years after his death,
Nor does it follow, that because the ancestor or his heirs
were partiesto one corporation, that therefore they were
bound to become parties to a new and distinct corporation,
-created by another and independent authority. It has been
urged upon the court that if this doctrine prevail, it will
overturn a great amount of property; but that no more
proves the fact of assent, than if it would only overturn a
small amount. It has been further contended, that the suit
now pending is predicated from the partition made by the
directors under the Ohio act of incorporation, and consequently affirms their proceedings, and estops the defendants.
in error from denying the fact of their assent. No principle
of law is better settled, than. that one tenant in common
m'ay bring an ejectment against his c6mpanionf to be let into
possession. Every such tenant has a.right to the common
enjoyment of the whole and every part of the premises;
and against all strangers,, he has an exclusive right of pos-.
session to the whole and every part thereof. From this principle,.it follows, as a necessary consequence, that he has a
right to his possessory action against such stranger for the
whole'or any part of the premises. The suit then, against
the plaintiff in error as a-trespasser upon a specific part of
this .grant of the land, is no admission by the defendants of a
partition; and consequently is no. affirmance of the partition,
if any was made by the directors; which the record does
not show.
2. The second point denies the authority, of the directors
to assess the tax in question. In the case-of Head vs. Providende Insurance Company, 2 Cranch. 167, 1 .Condens. Rep.
371, the court say, that "a corporation may correctly.be
said to be precisely what the incorporating acthas made it,
to derive all its powers from that act, and to be capable of
exerting its faculties only in the manner that act authorises;" and in 4 Wheat. 636, this court define a corporation
in thesewords, "it isthe mere creature of the law, and possesses only those properties, which the charter 6f its creation
confers upon it, either expiessly or as incidental to itT very
existence." Its powers are therefore to be oonstrued strictly.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

To determine the question of the power of the directors to
assess the tax, it is necessary to look into-the incorporating
act, and to examine'it in all its parts.
It is not pretended that the act confers an express grant
of power to assess the tax. The inquiry then arises, was
the power incidental to the existence of the corporation .
A formal and specific enumeration of the purposes for which
the corporation was created -is set out in the preamble, and
also in the second section of the act.
They are, "to extinguish the Indian title to the grant of
a half million acres of land, to survey and locate the same
into townships or otherwise, and to make partition among
the proprietors." To effect these objects, and to defray all
other necessary expenses of said company, power was-given
to the directors to levy taxes. Was the tax assessed by the
state of Ohio, a company -charge or expense ? The tax of
the state was a lien upon the estate of each tenant in common, which his companion was no more bound to pay, than
he would be to discharge the lien of' a judgment at law, or
a mortgage of his co-tenant. The twenty-third section of
the -act of Ohio assessing the state tax, is conclusive of this
point.
It enacts, that when any tract of land charged with tax,
is owned by two or more persons, the collector shall rec.eive from any person tendering the same, his or her proportion of the tax due thereon.
Under this provision of the act, any one of the proprietorsmight, by paying his. proportion of the tax, discharge
the-lien of the state upon his estate. And his interest couild
no more be affected by the -sale of the right of-his companion for non-payment, than if that right were conveyed away
by th& companion himself, or sold to pay a judgment at law.The tax of the state then was not a company charge; nor
was the payment of it by the company in any way necessaryor incidental to the existence of the corporation. Again,
wag the aid of the corporation necessidry to enable thestate
to collect its tax 9 The power of the state to collect its
own taxes by its own agents, cannot be denied.
If, therefore, we find the state did create its own agents

SUPREME COURTt
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

for the collection of this tax, and put into their bandb all the
necessary means to discharge this duty, 'every presfAmption
in favour of collecting it by the agents of the corporation
is excluded. On looking into the tax law of Ohio, we find
the tax covered all the lands in the state, the company's lands

included ; that agents were appointed to collect' all thp tax

without any exception; for this purpose, the state was divided
into collection districts, one of which embraced the land in

controversy.

The aid of the company, therefore, was not

necessary to a perfect execution of the law of.Ohio; and the

means provided by the legislature for its execution excludes
the idea, that it relied upon this corporation for any such
assistance'as it thought proper to volunteer.
But it has been insisted, that tht tenth section of the. act of
incorporation confers upon the directors the power to assess
a-tax to pay a tax of the state. It empowers them, in general
terms, to do whatever to them shall appear necessary and
pToper to be done for the well ordering and interest of the
proprietors, not contrary to the laws of Ohio. This section
contains no specific and substantive grant of power. It
ought, therefore, to be construed to be a general grant of
'the means necessary and proper for the execution of the specified purposes of the act of incorporation.
So inderstood it does not in fact enlarge the powers of
the coriioration, and seems to have been introduced into the
act from abundant caution.
3. Before the examination of the remaining points, it may
be-proper to notice an obiection that' has been urged by
the opposing-o unsel. It is.insisted that we are not at liberty
to present either of these points to the court; because they
'do not form part of the opinion of the -court below, to which
exceptions were taken at the trial. The objection is predicated from the supposition, that the writ of error was sued
out. to reverse the opinion of the court, instead of the judgment itself. The writ covers the whole record; and if it
shall' appear from an inspection of it, that there is ho error
in the judgment, it cannot be reversed, whatever may be the
errors' in the opinion of the court.
The record sets out the proof of the title of the plaintiffs

JANUARY TERM 183o.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

below.

It is a perfect title.

The title of the defendant

below, as proved by him, is also spread upon the record. If
that title is defective, it cannot avail him. against the perfect
title* of his opponents. We are therefore at libbrty to examine that title as it appears on the record.
The thirdt objection then is, that the tax was void, being
assessed in part for undefined purposes. The objects of
the tax are dechtred in the resolution of assessment to
be "to defray the. expenses of a tax laid by the state of
Ohio, and other necessary expenses for the good of the proprietors of the said land." The taxing power of the corporation is limited to certain purposes specified in the incorporating-act, whidh would doubtless include the means
necessary and proper for the full attainment of those purposes. It must be exercised within those limits; and in such
a manner, that it can be known with certainty whether
.they have been exceeded. If otherwise, its assumptions of
power could neither be detected nor controlled. For example, let it be conceded that the corporation had no power
to assess a tax to pay a tax of- the state ; is it not apparent
that a tax for that purpose might be assessed under the
vague terms "for the good of the proprietors !" The undefined portion of the tax must therefore be-void.
The tax is one entire and indivisible thing ; and if void for
part, it must be for the whole. It cannot be ascertained
how much of the land in controversy, if any part of the tax
was authorised, was sold to pay the valid, and how much
the invalid portion of the tax.
4. The sale was contrary to the laws of Ohio. By the tenth
section of the act of incorporation the directors were restrained from doing those things that were contrary to'the
laws of the state. The collectors of the state tax were re,quired to reside in their collection districts, to give bond and
security to the state for-the faithful collection and paying
over the tax to the state treasurer. The sale and collection
in this case was made by a company collector, residing in a
.distant state ; who gave no bond to the stdte,. nor was in any
manner accountable to it. The sale was made without the
reqervation ot the right of redemption. which the law of
Vol.. IV.-V

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

Ohio secured to infants, and to others labouring under legal
disabilities. The collector for the corporation exacted fees
and charges not allowed by the laws of Ohio-; and thus increased the amount of the.tax beyond v.hat the state collector was authorised to receive.
In all these particulars, and others that might be enumerated, the sale was contrary to the settled law and .policy of
Ohio, and therefore vicious.
5. Admitting the corporation had the power to assess and
collect the tax in question; still in making the collection
the company's collector did not conform to all the requisites
prescribed 'to him. by the act of incorporation. That act
requires the collector to give'notice of the time when the tax
became due, by advertising the same for at least three weeks.
in a newspaper published in each of the. counties of New
Haven, Fairfield, and New London, in the state of Connecticut. If the tax was not then paid, the collector was required to make another and further publication of the time
and place of sale, for default of payment.
The record shows an advertisement of sale, for non-payment; but does not show that proof was made of an advertisement of the time wkn the tax became due. The cases of
Williams vs. Peyton, 4 Wheat. 79, 83, and of Parker vs.
Rule's Lessee, 9 Cranch, 64, are expressly in point; and
they show conclusively, that the advertisement cannot be
presumed in the absence of proof; and that its omission is a
fatal irregularity.
Mr Wright, in reply, contended; that the provisions of the
law ot"Ohio under which the tax was assessed, laid the tax
on the whole body of the lands owned by the eighteen hundred persons. It was a common charge on the whole lands,
which at the time were held by the proprietors undivided.
It was consequently a necessary expense upon the company
for which the directors were authorised to provide, by the
assessment of a tax. Th6 law of Ohio looked to the land for
the tax, and required the collectors to sell for the collection
of it; and for the tax due on an entire undivided tract, an
entire portion of the whole was directed to be sold. An

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

attempt to sell in parcels, would be to make a partition
among the proprietors. No one could pay his own tax and
preserve his own share, because le owned no specific part:
his joint interest would be more or less prejudiced, if any
sale for taxes of the entire tract took place.
He proceeded to show, by a reference to the law of Ohio
laying the tax, further difficulties which would have attended
the sale of part of the whole 'body of the land for the tax;
and he argued that the payment of the tax by the directors
was necessary to preserve the lands of the company.
It is said, the tenth section of the' act of incorporatiqn
confers no power to tax. That section was intended to give
some power, and it authorises that to be done which is "necessary and proper 'or the well ordering and interests of the
owners and proprietors." These terms fully comprehend the
power, and authorised fhe doing of that which would save
the property from sale under the state law.
It is objected that the assessment is void for uncertainty,
being in part for undefined purposes. It was for the Ohio tax,
and other necessary expenses for the good of the proprietors
of the land. While it is admitted that it ought to have
mentioned the objects, it is denied that it was required that
they should be specified. Were they for the general interests,
and for the general good . This has not been denied,
In the act of incorporation there is no reservation in favour
of minors. In the general law, minors are allowed to redeem
in a yea" after attaining adult years. In what manner ?." Not
by treating the sale as void, but by paying the tax, interest
and penalties, and for the improvements. These requisites
tuppose the sale valid.
But the question before the court, is one of power, not of
policy. The omission of the legislature to make a politic
provision concerning the rights of minors, does not deny the
right; on the contrary, it admits the p6wer. It cannot be
maintained that this affects the validity of the sale. All the
incapacities, and all the privileges of minors are the mere
creatures of municipal law. The state of minority itself is
created and regulated by that law, and the peiod of its duration varies in different states.

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

The act of incorporation of Ohio operated upon adults
and on minors alike. No distinction is made in respect to
their rights. The courts cannot originate such distinctions.
No authorities have been adduced in. support of our
positions. They are supposed to.rest on principles familiar
to the profession. Their application to the case before the
.court cannot be tested by precedent, for the whole case is
one sti generis. The analogies illustrative of their application, result more directly from the principles themselves
than from adjudged cases;-which can bear but remotely upon
an insulated controversy. Cited, Knowler, Douglass and
others vs. Coit, 1 Ohio Rep. 519.
Mr Justice M'LEAN'delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of ejectment, brought in the circuit
court of Ohio, to recover possession of one thousand two
hundred acres of land, parcel of two thousand four hundred
acres, in what is called the Connecticut reserve.
On the trial below, it was agreed, that Jonathan Douglas,
the ancestor of the plaintiff's lessors, became proprietor of
the premises in question, in May 1792, under the laws of
Connecticut, granting lands to certain sufferers, and died
the 6th of March 1800, vested with the legal title ; which
he held in common with many other proprietors, the land
not being set apart, or apportioned to any one of the whole.
That the lessors of the plaintiff"were' his heirs at law, and
held as parthiers or tenants in common.
On the trial it was proved by the plaintiff below, that on
the 5th of May 1808, four of tbe lessors were minors.
The defendant set up a title under a ta3 sale, which was
made by the company incorporated for the management of
said lands.
This company was first incorporated by the Connecticut
legislature, in the year 1796. No person is named in the
act; but the corporators are designated, as the " proprietors
of the half million of acres of land lying south of lake
Erie." Under this law the corporation was organized. In
1797, the Connecticut legislature passed an amendment to
this law.

JANUARY TERM 1830.
. [Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

.

On the, 15th of April 1803, the legislature of Ohio passed
an act incorporating those owners and proprietors, by the
name of "the proprietors of the half million of acres of land
lying south of lake Erie, called sufferers' land ;" and by that
naime gave succession to them, their heirs and assigns.
This was called the sufferers' land, fr6m the circumstance
of its having been given by the state of Connecticut to indemnify the losses its citizens had sustained in the revolutionary war.
The --act of incorporation by the legislaturd of Ohio
required nine directors to be appointed, who, were authorised to hold their meetings out of the state. In the second
section, power is given to the directors to extinguish the
Indian title; to survey the land into townships, or otherwise
to make partition, as they should order, among the owners,
in proportion to the amount of loss: and amongst other
things, the act provided, " that to defray all necessary expenses of said company, in purchasing and in extinguishing
the Indian claim of title to the land, surveying, locating,
and making partition there6f, 's aforesaid, and all other
necessary expenses of said company, power be, and the
same is hereby given to, and vested in the said directors and
their successors in -office, to levy a tax or taxes (two-thirds
of the directors present agreeingthereto,) on said land, and
have power to enforce the collection thereof."
The ninth section provides, "that all sales of rights, or
parts of rights, of any owner or proprietor in said half million
acres of land, made-by the collector, shall be go6d and valid,
so as to secure an absolute title in the purchaser; unless..
the said owner and proprietor shall redeem the same within
six calendar months next after the 'sale thereof, 6y paying the
taxes for which the said right or rights, or parts thereof, had
been sold, with twelve-per cent. interest thereon, and costs
of suit." The act contains no, provision in favour of the
rights of infants or femes covert.
* By the tenth section of this law it is provided, "that said
directors shall have power and authority, and the same is
hereby given to them and their successors, to do whatever
shall to them appear necessary and proper to be done, for

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.1

the well ordering and interest of said owners and proprietors, not c-ntrary to the laws of the state." The eleventh
'directs that "supplies of money which shall remain in the
hands of the treasurer,'after the Indian title shall be extinguished, and said land located, .and partition thereof made,
shall be- used by said directors for the laying out and improving the public road in said tract, as this assembly.shall
direct." The act is declared to bela public one in the.
twelfth section.
An act imposing a land tax was passed by the Ohio legislature in 1806, which remained in force in 1808. This act
required entry to be made of lands for taxation. A p~rpetual lien was imposed on the land, Whether entered or not,
for the amount of the tax, and minors had a right to redeem
their land sold for taxes, within one year after their minority
expired. It Appeared in proQf, at the trial, that at a meeting of the directors of the company convened at the court
house in New Haven, on Thursday the 5th of May 180S,
agreeably to a notificatiQn duly issued, according to the ordinances of said directors; it-was unanimously voted by six
directors, being all that were present, that a tax of two cents
on the pound, original loss, be assessed on the original rights
or losses, in said half million acres of land, to be paid by each
proprietor thereof, in proportion to each- person's respective
share'or loss, as set in the grant of said lands made by the.
state of Connecticut 4 to be collected and paid by the several collectors to the treasurer of this company, on or before
the Ist of July 1808, to defray the expenses of a tax laid by
the legislature of the state of Ohio, and other necessary
expenses, for the good of the proprietors of said land.
The defendant gave in evidence the assessment of a tax
upon the rights of the said Jonathan Douglas,- the appointment of a collector, the issuing of a warrant of collection,
the advertisement of sale for taxes, the sale of a part of the
right of said Douglas, amounting to twelve, hundred acres,
for taxes, to Elias Perkins, who conveyed the tract to the
defendant.
The circuit court instructed the jury, that the directors had
no power to assess said tax. And that the infant lessors were

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee ofKnowler.]

not concluded or bound by such assessment. To these instrudtions the defendant excepted. The jury found a verdict
of guilty, and judgment was rendered thereon;
A reversal of this judgment is prayed for by the plaintiff
in error, on the following grounds:
1. The court erred in their instruction to the jury, that the
directors had no legal authority to assess the tax:
2. That the minor proprietors were not bound and concluded by the assessment and sale.
It is not contended in this case, that this company could
derive corporate powers to do any act in Ohio, in. relation
to the sufferers' land, under the statute of Connecticut. All
their powers must be derived from the law of Ohio. This
law, it is insisted, is a private act, not designed for public
purposes, and consequently cannot affect the rights of any
individual who did not assent to its provisions. That the
provision declaring it to be a public act, does not alter
the principle; for the rights derived under it are of a private
nature, being limited to those who have an interest in the
land; and it is denied,. that any-evidence of assent has been
shown by the lessors of the plaintiff or their ancestor.
Several authorities were cited, as having a bearing upon
the objections thus stated. The names of the sufferers are
published in the Connecticut act or resolution in 1!792, with
the amount allowed to each, as hii indemnity for losses sustained. In this act is found the name of the ancestor of the
lessors of the plaintiff. His right descended to them, subJect to the sarine conditions by which it was originally held.:
The provision of the law of incorporation, tlFat it should
be considered a publict act, must be regarded in courts-of
justice, and its enactments noticed,- without being specially
pleaded; as would be necessary, if the act were private.
That a private act of incorporation cannot affect the rights
of individuals who do not assent to it, and that in this respect
it is considered in the light of a contract, is a position too
clear to admit of controversy. But, in the present case, this
,objection seems not to have been made in the court below;
where proof of the assent, if necessary, might have' been
submitted to the jury.

168

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

From the nature of the right asserted, and the circumstances under which it was originated, this court cannot
doubt that the assent of the proprietors may be- fairly presumed both to the act of Connecticut and to that of Ohio.
Rights have been protected and regulated under those laws,
and tothe provisions of the latter ar the claimants indebted 'in a great degree, for the present value of the remainder
of the land, which they still hold; and, as has been well
arguqd, if they participate in the benefits of the law,.they
can set up no exemption from its penalties.
The main question in the case is,. whether the directors
.have the power, under theaact of incorporation, to assess a
tax 'on each proprietor's share, 'to pay a tax to the state.
That a corporation is strictly limited to the exercise of those'
powers, which are specifically conferred on it, will not be
denied.' The -exercise of the corporate franchise, being
restrictive-of individual rights, cannot be extended beyond
.1he letter and spirit of the act of incorporation. In the
second section of the act; power is given to the directors to
extinguish therIndian title, under the authority of the United
States, when obtaiqed;' to survey and locate the land into
townships, 'or otherwise to make partition; and to defray all
necessary expenses in carrying these objects into effect; and
to meet these 'and "all other necessary expenses of said
company," the directors ,are authorised to levy a tax or taxes
on said land, and to enforce the collection thereof. As the
power to' tax for the purpose 'of paying a tax to the state, is
not found among the enumerated powers of the directors, it
must be derived, if it exist, under the words, " all other
necessary expenses of said company ;" or under the tenth
section, which provides, that" the directors shall have power
to do whatever to them- shall appear necessary and proper
to be done, for the well ordering and interest of the proprietors, not contrary to the laws of the state'?' In favour of
this Construction, it has been ingeniously argued, that partition not having been made of the land, it could not be
entered for taxation as .required by the law of the state.
That the half million of acres must be eniered on the duplicate of the collector as one tract, and that it would be

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowlqr.] -

impracticable for the collector to ascertain qnd collect from
each proprietor his just proportion of the tax. That many
of the proprietors are non-residents, and that any proportion of them, being desirous of paying their part of the tax,
would not be discharged by doing so; as a part of the entire tract, involving their interests, would be liable to be
sold for any balance of the tax which remained unpaid.Whether partition was made of the land, when the directors assessed the tax, does not appear, nor is it consiered
a fact of much importance in the case. No argument drawn
from convenience, can enlarge the powers of the corporation. Was the tax imposed a "necessary expen-e of said'
company," within the meaning of the act ?q
Thdt these words would cover the expense of necessary
agents to assess and collect a tax legitimately imposed by
the directors, is clear, and also other incidental expenses,
arising from carrying into effect the powers expressly given;
but do they invest the directors with a nev' and substantive
power . If they do, how is the exercise of the power to be
limited q Must it depend upon the discretion of the directors, to determine all necessary expenses of the company.
Ample provisions are found in the state law imposing a
land tax, for the assessment and collection -of the tax.. A
lien is held on all thetaxable land in the state, whether entered for taxation or hot; and if the tax should not be paid
by a time specified, the collector was authorised, after giving
notice, to sell the smallest part of the tract, which would
bring the amount of the tax.
For the convenience of'non-residents, district collectors
were appointed, who were required to hold their offices at
places named in the act. The collector for the diptrict including the sufferers' land, held his office at Warren, within
what is called the reservation of Connecticut.
The law imposing the tax operates upon the land in controversy, and raises a lien; the same as on any other taxable
lands in the state.
It appears, therefore, that it was not the intention- of thelegislature to look to the corporation for the payment of
the tax assessed under the law, but to the land, as in all
VOL. IV.-W

SUPREME COURT.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

other cases.' And if any part of the land had been sold by
the state, in which, minors 'had an interest, under the law,

they had a right to redeem it within a year after they became of age. This is an important provision, -and is not
contained in the act of incorporation..
Th'e agents of the state were paid for their services out
of the tax collected; those of the corporation by the com-

pany.

It would seem, therefore, that the tax collected by

the state would be. less expensive to the proprietors, than if
collected by their -own agents; and less hazardous to their
rights, as the interests of minors were protected. If, therefore, the argument drawn from convenience could have any

influence, it could not operate favourably to the power of
the directors.
The power to impose a tax on real estate, and to sell it
where there is a failure to pay the tax, is a high prerogative,
and should never be 'exercised where the right is doubtful.
In the preamble to the Ohio'act of incorporation, there is
a reference to the Connecticut act, and to the cession of the
reserve, by that state, to the union; and a statement that it
was'annexed to the state of Ohio. And as a reason for the
passage of the act, it is stated, that said '1 half million of acres
of land are now within the limits of Trumble county in said
.state, and are still subject to Indian claims of title; wherdfore, to enable the owners'and proprietors of said half million
acres of land, to purchase and extinguish the Indian claim
of title to the same, (under the authority of the United States,
when the same shall be obtained,) to survey -and locate the
said -'hnd, and to make partition thereof to and among said
owners and proprietors, in proportion to the amount of losses,
which -is or shall be' by them respectively owned," &c.
These are the bbjects to be accomplished by the act of incorporatiori, and which could not be attained by the individual efforts of the proprie.tors. In the. eleventh section of the
act it is provided, "that supplies of money which shall remain in the hands of the'treasurer,'after the Indian title shall
be extinguished, and said land located and partition thereof
-made, shall be used by said directors for the laying out and

JANUARY TERM 1830.
[Beaty vs. The Lessee of Knowler.]

improving the public roads in said tract. a. the legislature
should direct."
From a careful inspection of the whole-act, it clearly. appears that.the incorporation of the company was designed to'
enable the proprietors to accomplish specific objects, and
that no more power was given than-was considered necessary to attain these objects.
The words "all necessary expenses of the company" cannot be so construed as to enlarge the power to tax, which is
given for specific purposes. A tax to the state is not a necessary expense of the company, within the meaning of the
act. Such an expense can only result from the action of the
company in the exercise of its corporate powers.
The provision in the tenth section, that -the "directors
shall have power to do whatever shall appear to them to be
necessary and proper to be done, for the well ordering of tlie
inter'est of the proprietors, not contrary to the laws of the
state ;" was not intended to give unlimited power, but the
exercise of a discretion, within the scope of the. authority
conferred.
If the words of this section are not to be restricted by, the
other provisions of the statute, but to be considered according to their literal import, they wbuld vest in the directors a
power over the land, only limited by their discretion. They
could dispose of the land and vest the proceeds in any manner which they might suppose would advance the interest of
the proprietors. It is only necessary to. state this consequence, to show the danger of such a construction, The
restrictions imposed, in other.parts of the statute, very clearly
demonstrate, that it was not the intention of the legislature
to invest the directors with such a power. Upon *afull view
*ofthe various piovisions of the act of incorporation, the court
do not find a power given to the directois to assess a tax, as
has been done, in the case under consideration, to pay a tax
to the state. The judgment of the circuit court mu.t, therefore, be affirmed with costs.

