LA JOYA GRANT v. BELEN LAND GRANT.
242 U. S.

595

Syllabus.

expected to order, is not important. It is true that the
music is not the sole object, but neither is the food, which
probably could be got cheaper elsewhere. The object is a
repast in surroundings that to people having limited powers of conversation or disliking the rival noise give a
luxurious pleasure not to be had from eating a silent meal.
If music did not pay it would be given up. If it pays it
pays out of the public's pocket. Whether it pays or not
the purpose of employing it is profit and that is enough.
Decrees reversed.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE SEVILLETA DE
LA JOYA GRANT, FOR THE BEINEFIT OF THE
OWNERS IN COMMON THEREOF, v. BOARD OF
TRUSTEES OF THE BELEN LAND GRANT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 129.

Argued December 22, 1916.-Decided January 22, 1917.

The Court of Private Land Claims derived all of its powers from the
Act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854.
Under that act the Court of Private Land Claims had no jurisdiction
in confirming a grant and supervising its survey to extend the confirmation and boundaries over land included in another grant confirmed by Congress and patented before the passage of the act, or
to alter the boundaries of such other grant as so confirmed and as
described in the patent.
So held, where both grants were complete and perfect before the Mexican cession, and the grant confirmed by Congress was senior in
time of grant.
Such jurisdiction could not be conferred on the Court of Private Land
Claims by consent of the owners of the grant confirmed by Congress.
20 N. Mex. 145, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Neill B. Field for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whbm Mr. R. P. Barnes and
Mr. J. L. Nicholas were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This -is an action in ejectment to recover the area in
conflict between two land grants in New Mexico respectively known as the La Joya and the Belen, the plaintiff
being the owner of the former and the defendant of the
latter. The defendant prevailed and the judgment was
affirmed. 20 N. Mex. 145.
The facts are these: Both grants were complete and
perfect at the time of the Mexican cession and both were
subsequently confirmed, the Belen in 1858 by an act of
Congress, c. 5, 11 Stat. 374, and the La Joya in 1893 by a
decree of the Court of Private Land Claims under the
Act of March 3, 1891, c. 539, 26 Stat. 854. The Belen was
the older grant and was patented in 1871, long before the
proceeding for the confirmation of the La Joya grant was
begun. Shortly after the decree confirming it was rendered
the La Joya grant was surveyed preparatory to issuing a
patent for it. Objections to the survey were made by two
persons interested in the Belen grant, and the survey, with
the objections, was laid before the Court of Private Land
Claims as was required by the Act of 1891. The objections were to the effect that the survey erroneously placed
the northern boundary of the La Joya grant within the
Belen grant and thereby wrongly brought the two largely
in conflict. After a hearing the court found the objections
well grounded, ordered a resurvey of the La Joya grant
and particularly designated what should be deemed its
Inorthern boundary. A resurvey conforming to that direc-

LA JOYA GRANT v. BELEN LAND GRANT.
242 U. S.

597

Opinion of the Court.

tion received the court's approval, and a patent for that
grant was then issued. While the resurvey greatly reduced
the area in conflict, it still left the northern boundary of
the La Joya grant within the Belen grant, and a conflict of
about 11,000 acres remained.
Without questioning the superiority which otherwise
would result from the seniority of the Belen grant, the
plaintiff insisted that the action of the Court of Private
Land Claims in directing what should be deemed the
northern boundary of the La Joya grant, and in approving the resurvey wherein that direction was followed,
amounted to an adjudication of the true location of the
common boundary between the grants and was conclusive
upon the owners of the Belen grant. But the state courts
held the contention untenable in view of the provisions of
the Act of 1891, and that ruling is the only one called in
question here.
The Court of Private Land Claims derived all of its
powers from the Act of 1891, the express purpose of which
was to provide for and secure the adjudication of Spanish
and Mexican land claims as between the claimants and
the United States. The act divided the claims into two
principal classes. One class, particularly described in § 6,
embraced those which were "not already complete and
perfect," and the other, particularly described in § 8, embraced those which were "complete and perfect" at the
time of the Mexican cession. The La Joya grant belonged
to the latter class, respecting which it was specially provided in § 8 that the court's confirmation should not include any land "that shall have been disposed of by the
United States," nor have "any effect other or further
than as a release of all claim of title by the United States,"
and that "no private right of any person as between himself and other claimants or persons" should be "in any
manner affected thereby." And in § 13 it was generally
provided in respect of both classes of claims that all the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

proceedings in the court should be conducted and decided
subject to certain enumerated restrictions, among which
were the following: "Fourth. No claim shall be allowed
for any land the right to which has'hitherto been lawfully
acted upon and decided by Congress, or under its authority. Fifth. No proceeding, decree, or act under this act
shall conclude or affect the private rights of persons as
between each other, all of which' rights shall be reserved
and saved to the same effect as if this act had not been
passed; but the proceedings, decrees, and acts herein
provided for shall be conclusive of all rights as between
the United States and all persons claiming any interest or
right in such lands."
In view of these provisions it is very plain that the
Court of Private Land Claims was without any power to
revise the action of Congress in confirming a particular
grant, or to confirm another grant for the same lands or
any part of them, or to determine the rights of private
persons, as between themselves, to such lands. This
court has frequently so held and has pointed out that a
decision by that court sustaining a claim for lands, as to
which Congress already had confirmed another claim,
would not conclude anyone, but would be void, because
in excess of the court's power. United States v. Conway,
175 U. S. 60; Ainsa v. New Mexico & Arizona R. R. Co.,
ibid. 76, 90; Las Animas Land Grant Co. v. United States,
179 U. S. 201, 205-206; United States v. Baca, 184 U. S.
653, 659. In the last case it was said:
"The manifest intent of Congress appears to have been
that with any land, of the right to which Congress, in the
exercise of its lawful discretion, had itself assumed the
decision, the Court of Private Land Claims should have
nothing to do. The whole jurisdiction conferred upon that
court is to confirm or reject claims presented to it, coming
within the act. All the powers conferred upon it are
incident to the exercise of that jurisdiction. When it has

LA JOYA GRANT v. BELEN LAND GRANT.
242 U. S.

599

Opinion of the Court.

no jurisdiction to confirm or reject, it has no authority to
inquire into or pass upon the case, beyond the decision of
the question of jurisdiction. The peremptory declaration
of Congress, that 'no claim shall be allowed for any land,
the right to which has hitherto been lawfully acted upon
and decided by Congress,' necessarily prohibits the court
from passing upon the merits of any such claim."
In confirming the La Joya grant and supervising its
survey the court proceeded in evident contravention of
that prohibition, for it extended the confirmation and
survey to about 11,000 acres of lands within the Belen
grant which had been confirmed by Congress and patented
long before the Act of 1891 was passed. In this respect,
therefore, the court overstepped its jurisdiction and its
action was void.
As making for a different conclusion the plaintiff contends, first, that consistently with the limitations imposed
it was quite admissible for the court to determine and
establish the common boundary between the two grants,
and, second, that by protesting against the original survey
the owners of the Belen grant invited the court to act in
the matter and therefore were bound by its decision. But
neither contention can be sustained. The Court of Private
Land Claims was bound to respect the Belen grant as
confirmed by Congress and described in the patent. It
was not given any power to reduce the area of that grant
or to make any decisions respecting its boundaries that
would affect private rights in the grant. On the contrary,
it was prohibited from doing so. And, of course, the
owners of the grant could not by any act or consent of
theirs enlarge the power of the court as defined in the act
creating it.
It follows that the state courts rightly refused to regard
the action of the Court of Private Land Claims as in any
way conclusive of the rights of the owners of the Belen
grant in the area in conflict.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Parties.

242 U. S.

Whether the persons who appeared in the La Joya
proceeding and objected to the original survey were authorized to represent or speak for all who were interested
in the Belen grant seems to have been a disputed question,
but as its decision would not affect the result here it requires no further notice.
Judgment affirmed.

SECOND NATIONAL BANK OF CINCINNATI,
OHIO, v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF OKEANA,
OHIO.
ERROR TO THE SUPERIOR COURT OF CINCINNATI, STATE
OF OHIO.
No. 491.

Argued January 25, 1917.-Decided February 5, 1917.'

When the highest state,court has refused to exercise its discretion to'
review.a judgment of an intermediate appellate tribunal, it is to the
latter that the writ of error under Judicial Code, § 237, should be
directed. Stratton v. Stratton, 239 U. S. 55; Valley Steamship Co. v.
Wattawa, 241 U. S.642.
The Ohio Court of Appeals affirmed a judgment of the Superior Court
of Cincinnati, upon the record coming from the latter, and ordered
that a special mandate be sent to that court "to carry this judgment
into effect," without directing it to enter any judgment of its own.
Held, that the writ of error under § 237 should have been directed to
the Court of Appeals and not to the Superior Court.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Landon L. Forchheimer,with whom Mr. Ferdinand
Jelke, Jr., was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward P. Moulinier for defendant in error.

