MINERALS SEPARATION, LTD. v. HYDE.
242 U. S.

261

Syllabus.

order set aside by the courts. The general rule is that one
aggrieved by the rulings of such an administrative tribunal may not complain that the Constitution of the
United States has been violated if he has not availed himself of the remedies prescribed by the state law for a
rectification of such rulings. Bradley v. City of Richmond,
227 U. S. 477, 485. And since the record shows that plaintiff in error and its associates were accorded a rehearing
upon the very question of modification, but abandoned it,
nothing more need be said upon that point.
Judgment affirmed.

MR. JusTIcE CLARKE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

MINERALS SEPARATION, LIMITED, ET AL. v.
HYDE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 46.

Argued October 27, 30, 31, 1916; additional argument Novem-

ber 1, 1916.-Decided Decembei 11, 1916.
Patent No. 835120, issued November 6, 1906, to Henry Livingstone
Sulman et at., for improveifaents in the concentration of ores by a
process of oil flotation, is valid as to claims Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and
12, but invalid as to claims Nos. 9, 10 and 11.
The process covered by the patent, as sustained, is simpler and more
economical and has proved more successful than the flotation processes relied on as anticipations; it accomplishes separation of metallic
particles from ore pulp, not through the buoyancy of oil alone, but
largely also through the buoyancy of air bubbles introduced into
the mixture of ore, water and oil by means of an agitation differing
in kind and degree from that previously employed; and it results

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

in a froth concentrate of peculiar constitution and stability. For
these reasons it is held to be a patentable invention.
It is persuasive evidence of invention that the process in suit came
immediately into general use, and has largely replaced all earlier
like processes without the aid of puffing or business exploitation.
The patentees planned the experiments, directed the investigations
day, by day, conducted them largely in person and interpreted the
results, and they cannot be denied the status of original discoverers
on the ground that their employee made the analyses and observations which resulted immediately in the discovery. Agawam Company v. Jordan,7 Wall. 583-603.
A patent for a process of ore concentration which, because of the
varied character of the subject-matter, necessarily requires preliminary tests by the user to apply it most successfully to the ores
treated, is not on that account invalid, if the process is described in
the claims with sufficient definiteness to guide those skilled in the
art to a successful use of it.
The particularity and certainty of disclosure which the law requires
in patents is not greater than is reasonable, having regard to their
subject-matter.
Any variation from the process disclosed in a patent must come within
the claims of the patent to constitute an infringement.
214 Fed. Rep. 100, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion. For the opinion of
the District Court see 207 Fed. Rep. 956.
Mr. Henry D. Williams and Mr. Win. Houston Kenyon,
with whom Mr. F. D. McKenney, Mr. Lindley M. Garrison, Mr. John H. Miller and Mr. Odell W. McConnell
were on the briefs, for petitioners.
Mr. Walter A. Scott, with whomi Mr. Thomas F. Sheridan, Mr. George L. Wilkinson, Mr. K. R. Babbitt, Mr. J.

Bruce Kremer and Mr. John F. Neary were on the briefs,
for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARiK

delivered the opinion of the court.

In this suit the complainants, the first named as the
owner and the other as general licensee, claim an infringe-

MINERALS SEPARATION, LTD. v. HYDE.
242 U. S.

263

Opinion of the Court.

ment of United States letters patent No. 835120, issued
on the sixth day of November, 1906, to Henry Livingstone
Sulman, Hugh Fitzalis Kirkpatrick-Picard and John
Ballot. The usual injunction, accounting and damages
are prayed for. The District Court sustained the patent
as to claims numbered 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12;
found that the defendant had infringed each of- these
claims, and granted the prayer of the petition. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed the
decree of the District Court and remanded the case with
instructions to dismiss the bill. The case is here on writ
of certiorari to review that decision.
As stated in the specification, the claimed discovery of
the patent in the suit relates "to improvements in the
concentration of ores, the object being to separate metalliferous. matter, graphite, and the like from gangue by
means of oils, fatty acids, or other substances which have
a preferential affinity for metalliferous matter over
gangue."
The answer denies all of the allegations of the bill and
avers that in twenty-five designated United States and
five British patents the process described in suit was
"fully and clearly described or claimed," and it also avers
that the claimed discovery was invented, known and used
by many persons long prior to the time when the application was made for the patent in suit. Notwithstanding
this elaboration of denial counsel for the defendant in the
summarized conclusion to their brief rely upon only five
of the many patents referred to as showing that the patent
in suit was anticipated and is therefore invalid for want
of novelty and invention, viz: Everson (1886), Froment
(Italy, 1902; Great Britain, 1903), Glogner (1903),
Schwarz (applied for April 19, 1905, issued December 19,
1905), and Kirby (applied for December 17, 1903, issued
December 18, 1906). And the defendant, a man obviously
experienced in the subject, says that, in his opinion, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

whole basis of flotation concentration was disclosed in the
Everson United States patent No. 348157 and in the
Froment British patent.
It is clear that in the prior art, as it is developed in this
record, it was well known that oil and oily substances had
a selective affinity or attraction for, and would unite
mechanically with, the minute particles of metal and
metallic compounds found in crushed or powdered ores,
but would not so unite with the quartz, or rocky nonmetallic material, called "gangue." Haynes British patent
(1860), and United States patents, Everson (1886), Robson (1897) and Elmore (1901). It was also well known
this selective property of oils and oily substances was
increased when applied to some ores by the addition of a
small amount of acid to the ore and water used in process
of concentration. United States patents, Everson (1886),
Elmore (1901), and Cattermole (1904).
Prior to the date of the patent in suit a number of
patents had been granted in this and other countries for
processes aiming to make practical use of this property
of oil and of oil mixed with acid in the treatment of ores,
all of which, speaking broadly, consisted in mixing finely
crushed or powdered ore with water and oil, sometimes
with acid added, and then in variously treating the mass"the pulp "-thus formed so as to separate the oil, when
it became impregnated or loaded with the metal and
metal-bearing particles, from the valueless gangue. From
the resulting concentrate the metals were recovered in
various ways.
The processes, of this general character, described in
the prior patents may be roughly divided into two classes.
The process in the patents of the first class is called in the
record the "Surface Flotation Process" and it depends
for its usefulness on the oil used being sufficient to collect
and hold in mechanical suspension the small. particles of
metal and metalliferous compounds and by its buoyancy

MINERALS SEPARATION, LTD. v. HYDE.
242 U. S.

265

Opinion of the Court.

to carry them to the surface of the mixture of ore, water
and oil, thus making it possible, by methods familiar to
persons skilled in the art, to float off the concentrate thus
obtained into any desired receptacle. The waste material, or gangue, not being affected by the oil and being
heavier than water sinks to. the bottom of the containing
vessel and may be disposed of as desired.
The process of the other class, called in the record the
"Metal Sinking Process," reverses the action of the Surface Flotation Process and is illustrated by the Cattermole
U. S. patent, No. 777273, in which oil is used to the extent
of 4% to 6% to 10% of the weight of the metalliferous
mineral matter, depending on the character of the ore,
for the purpose of agglomerating the oil-coated concentrate into granules heavier than water, so that they will
sink to the bottom of the containing vessel, permitting
the gangue to be carried away by an upward flowing
stream of water.
The process of the patent in suit, as described and practiced, consists in the use of an amount of oil which is
"critical," and minute as compared with the amount used
in prior processes "amounting to a fraction of one per
cent. on the ore," and in so impregnating with air the mass
of ore and water used, by agitation-"by beating the
air into the mass"-as to-cause to rise to the surface of
the mass, or pulp, a froth, peculiarly coherent and persistent in character, which is composed of air bubbles
with only a trace of oil in them, which carry in mechanical
suspension a very high percentage of the metal and
metalliferous particles of ore which were contained in the
mass of crushed ore subjected to treatment. This froth
can be removed and the metal recovered by processes
with which the patent is not concerned.
It is obvious that the process of the patent in suit, as
we have described it, is not of the Metal Sinking class,
and while it may, in terms, be described as a Surface

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Flotation Process, yet it differs so essentially from all
prior processes in its character, in its simplicity of operation and in the resulting concentrate, that we are persuaded that it constitutes a new and patentable discovery.
The prior processes which we have described required
the use of so much oil that they were too expensive to be
used on lean ores, to which they were intended to have
their chief application, and the efforts of investigators for
several years prior to the discovery of the process in suit
had been directed to the fearch for a means or method of
reducing the amount of oil used, and it is clear from the
record that approach was being made, slowly, but more
and more nearly to the result which was reached by the
patentees of the. process in suit in March, 1905. The
Froment Great Britain patent (1903) and the Kirby
United States patent (applied for in 1903 and granted in
1906) are especially suggestive of the advance which was
being made toward the desired result, but the Froment
process was little more than a laboratory experiment and
has never proved of value in practice, and the Kirby process, though approaching in some respects more nearly
to the end attained by the process of the patent in suit,
found its preferred application in the use of an amount of
oil solution equal to one-fourth to three-fourths in weight
of the ore treated, which was prohibitive in cost.
Into this field of investigation at this stage of its development came the patentees of the patent in suit. They
were experienced metallurgists of London, of inventive
genius and with financial resources, and they entered
upon an investigation of the processes of oil concentration
of ores which was continued through several years, and
consisted of a very extended series of experiments in which
the quantities of oil, of water and of acid used and the
extent and character of the agitation of the mass under
treatment resorted to, were varied to an almost un-

MINERALS SEPARATION, LTD. v. HYDE.
242 U. S.

267

Opinion of the Court.

paialleled extent as to each factor and the results were
carefully tabulated and interpreted. It was while pursuing
a comprehensive investigation of this character, having,
as the evidence shows, the special purpose in mind at the
time to trace the effect on the results of the process of a
reduction to the vanishing point of the quantity of oil
used, that the discovery embodied in the patent in suit
was made. The experimenters were working on the
Cattermole "Metal Sinking Process" as a basis when it
was discovered that the granulation on which the process
depended practically ceased when the oleic acid (oil) was
reduced to about five-tenths of one per cent. "on the
ore." It was observed, however, that, as the amount of
oleic acid was further reduced and the granulation diminished, there was an increase in the amount of "float
froth," which collected on the surface of the mass and that
the production of this froth reached its maximum when
about one-tenth of one per cent. or slightly less "on the
ore" of oleic acid was used. This froth, on collection, was
found to consist of air bubbles modified by the presence of
the minute amount of oil used and holding in mechanical
suspension between 70% and 80% of the total mineral
content of the mass treated. It was promptly recognized
by the patentees that this froth was not due to the liberation of gas in the mass treated by the action of the dilute
acid used, and its formation was at once attributed in
large part to the presence of the air introduced into the
mixture by the agitation which had been resorted to to
mix the oil with the particles of crushed ore, which air, in
bubbles, attached itself to the mineral particles, slightly
coated as they were with what was necessarily an infinitesimal amount of oil, and floated them to the surface.
The extent of the agitation of the mass had been increased
as the experiments proceeded until the "series of Gabbett
mixers, fitted with the usual baffles, were speeded at from
1,000 to 1,100 revolutions per minute."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

A careful consideration of the record in this case convinces us that the facts with respect to the process of the
patent in suit are not overstated by the plaintiffs' witness,
Adolf Liebmann, an expert of learning and experience,
when he says in substance:
"The present invention differs essentially from all previous results. It is true that oil is one of the substances
used but it is used in quantities much smaller than was
ever heard of, and it produces a result never obtained, before. The minerals are obtained in a froth of a peculiar
character, consisting of air bubbles which in their covering
film have the minerals embedded in such manner that
they form a complete surface all over the bubbles. A remarkable fact with regard to this froth is that, although
the very light and easily destructible air bubbles are
covered with a heavy mineral, yet the froth is stable and
utterly different' from any froth known before, being so
permanent in character that I have personally seen it
stand for twenty-four hours without any change having
taken place. The simplicity of the operation, as compared
with the prior attempts, is startling. All that has to be
done is to add a minute quantity of oil to the pulp to
which acid may or may not be added, agitate for from
two and one-half to ten minutes and then after a few
seconds collect from the surface the froth which will contain a large percentage of the minerals present in the ore."
It is not necessary for us to go into a detailed examination of the process in suit to distinguish it from the processes of the patents relied on as anticipations, convinced
as we are that the small amount of oil used makes it clear
that the lifting force which separates the metallic particles
of the pulp from the other substances of it is not to be
found principally in the buoyancy of. the oil used, as was
the case in prior processes, but that this force is to be
found, chiefly, in the buoyancy of the air bubbles introduced into the mixture by an agitation greater than and

MINERALS SEPARATION, LTD. v. HYDE.
242 U. S.

269

Opinion of the Court.

different from that which had been resorted to before and
that this advance on the prior art and the resulting froth
concentrate so different from the product of other processes make of it a patentable discovery as new and original as it has proved useful and economical. It results
without more discussion, that we fully agree with the
decision of the House of Lords, arrived at upon a different
record and with different witnesses, but when dealing with
the equivalent of the patent in suit, in Minerals Separation, Limited, v. British Ore Concentration Syndicate,
Limited, 27 R. P. C. 33. In this decision Lord Shaw,
speaking for the court and distinguishing the process there
in suit especially from the Elmore oil flotation process
which had gone before but which was typical of the then
prior art, said: "'They (the patentees of the Agitation
Froth Process of the patent in suit) are not promoting a
method of separation which had before been described,
but they are engaged upon a new method of separation.
Instead of relying upon the lesser specific gravity of oil in
bulk, they rely upon the production of a froth by means of
an agitation which not only assists the process of the
minute quantities of oil reaching the minute particles of
metal, but forms a multitude of air cells, the buoyancy of
which air cells, forming round single particles of the metal,
floats them to the surface of the liquid."
And Lord Atkinson said: "In their process this mysterious affinity of oil for the metallic particles of the ore is
availed of, yet the oil is used in such relatively infinitesimal
quantities, that the metallic particles are only coated with
a thin film of it, and the lifting force is found not in the
natural buoyancy of the mass of added oil, but in the
buoyancy of air bubbles, which, introduced into the mixture by the more or less violent agitation of it, envelop or
become attached to, the thinly oiled metallic particles, and
raise them to the surface, where they are maintained by
what is styled the surface tension of the water."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

The record shows not only that the process in suit was
promptly. considered by the patentees as an original and
important discovery, but that it was immediately generally accepted as so great an advance over any process
known before that, without puffing or other business
exploitation, it promptly came into 'extensive use for the
concentration of ores in'most, if not all, of the principal
mining countries of the world, notably in the United
States, Australia, Sweden, Chile and Cuba, and that, because of its economy and simplicity, it has largely replaced
all earlier processes. This, of itself, is persuasive evidence
of that invention which it is the purpose of the patent laws
to reward and protect. Diamond Rubber Co. v. Con.solidated Tire Co., 220 U. S. 428; Carnegie Steel Co. v.
CambriaIron Co., 185 U. S. 403, 429, 430; The Barbed Wire
Patent, 143 U. S. 275; Smith v. Goodyear Dental Vulcanite
Co., 93 U. S. 486.
The claim that the patentees of the patent in suit are not
the original discoverers of the process patented because an
employee of theirs happened to make the analyses and
observations which resulted immediately in the discovery,
cannot be allowed. The record shows very clearly that
the patentees planned the experiments in progress when
the discovery was made; 'that they directed the investigations day by day, conducting them in large part personally
and that they interpreted the results. Agawam Company
v. Jordan, 7 Wall. 583-603, rules this claim against the
defendant.
Equally untenable is the claim that the patent is invalid
for the reason that the evidence shows that when different
ores are treated preliminary tests must be made to determine the amount of oil and the extent of agitation necessary in order to obtain the best results. .Such variation of
treatment must be within the scope of the claims, and the
certainty which the law requires in patents is not greater
than is reasonable, having regard to their subject-matter.,

MINERALS SEPARATION, LTD. v. HYDE.
242 U. S.

271

Opinion of the Court.

The composition of ores varies infinitely, each one presenting its special problem, and it is obviously impossible
to specify in a patent the precise treatment which would be
most successful and economical in each case. The process
is one for dealing with a large class of substances and the
range of treatment within the terms of the claims, while
leaving something to the skill of persons applying the
invention, is clearly sufficiently definite to guide those
skilled in the art to its successful application, as the
evidence abundantly shows. This satisfies the law.
Mowry v. Whitney, 14 Wall. 620; Ives v. Hamilton, 92
U. S. 426, and Carnegie Steel Co. V. Cambria Iron Co., 185
U. S. 403, 436, 437.
The evidence of infringement is clear.
While we thus find in favor of the validity of the patent,
we cannot agree with the District Court in regarding it
valid as to all of the claims in suit. As we have pointed out
in this opinion there were many investigators at work in
this field to which the process in suit relates when the
patentees came into it, and it was while engaged in study
of prior kindred processes that their discovery was made.
While the evidence in the case makes it clear that they
discovered the final step which converted experiment into
solution, "turned failure into success," (The Barbed Wire
Patent, 143 U. S. 275), yet the investigations preceding
were so informing that this final step was not a long one
and the patent must be confined to the results obtained by
the use of oil within the proportions often described in the
testimony and in the claims of the patent as "critical
proportions" "amounting to a fraction of one per cent. on
the ore," and therefore the decree of this court will be
that the patent is valid as to claims Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and
12, and that the defendant infringed these claims, but
that it is invalid as to claims 9, 10 and 11. Claims Nos. 4, 8
and 13 were not considered in the decrees of the two lower
courts and are not in issue in this proceeding.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be reversed, and the decision of the District Court, modified to
conform to the conclusions expressed in this opinion, will
be affirmed.

LONG SAULT DEVELOPMENT COMPANY v. CALL
(AS SUCCESSOR OF KENNEDY), AS TREASURER
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
No. 49. Argued April 14, 17, 1916; restored to docket for reargument
June 12, 1916; reargued October 31, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.
When a claim of contractual rights under a state statute is denied by
a state court purely upon the ground that the attempted grant was
in conflict with the state constitution and therefore void ab initio,
the "contract clause" of the Federal Constitution is not violated
and this court may not review the decision.
In determining whether such decision was influenced by legislation
subsequent to the alleged contract, this court will give considerate
attention to the state court's decision, presuming an intention on
the part of such court to obey the Constitution and laws of the
United States; it will not, however, confine itself to the language
of the opinion, but will examine the decision in its scope and sub-

stance, and decide for itself whether subsequent legislation was
given effect in arriving at the result.
The decision of the court below, holding void an act of the legislature
of New York (Laws of 1907, c. 355) which purported to grant rights
in the Saint Lawrence River, was arrived at independently of the
later repealing act and accompanying legislation found in Laws of
1913, chaps. 452 and 453.

Writ of error to review 212 N. Y. 1, dismissed.

T,

case is stated in the opinion.

