WILLIAMS v. COBB.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

in interstate commerce. The state courts held there was
no such question, and we cannot say that in so concluding
they committed manifest error. It results that in the.
proper exercise of the jurisdiction of this court in cases
of this character, the decision ought not to be disturbed.
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp, 240 U. S. 464, 466.
Judgment atfirmed.

WILLIAMS, AS RECEIVER OF THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF MINERAL POINT, WISCONSIN, v. COBB.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

No. 125.

CIROUIT.

Submitted November 17, 1916.-Decided December 18, 1916.

Defendant and another, executors, seeking in good faith to follow a
testamentary diiection to invest a sum in "interest bearing securities," on certain trusts, caused to be transferred to themselves as
trustees certain National Bank shares belonging to the estate.
Thereafter, their final account as executors, explaining this transaction and reporting the estate wlolly distributed except for these
shares, was approved by the proper court of Wisconsin. The bank
afterwards becoming insolvent, suit was brought by the receiver to
recover the amount of an assessment levied upon the shares by the
Comptroller of the Currency, the bill seeking to hold the defendant,
(who had received a larger amount as legatee), under a Wisconsin
law making distributees liable for debts of estates in certain cases.
Held, (1) That whether or not the shares were "interest bearing securities,", the transfer'was not void.
(2) Title being in the trustees, the estate was not liable for the assessment, and consequently defendant could not be held as a distributee
under the Wisconsin statute.
At common law executors have implied authority to pass title to
personal assets of the estate-a rule which has not been modified
in Wisconsin.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Section 2091, Wisconsin Statutes, 1913, .providing that conveyances
made by trustees in contravention of express trusts shall be absolutely void, does not apply to personal property.
219 Fed. Rep. 663, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John -B. Sanborn and Mr. Chauncey E. Blake for

appellant.
Mr. K. R. Babbitt for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In 1904 Laura A. Cobb died testate at Mineral Point,
Wisconsin, and by her will directed her executors to invest
the sum of $2,000 of her estate in "interest bearing securities," to pay the income thereof to Catherine Monohan
during her life, and on her death to distribute the trust
fund to certain persons designated in the -mll. The defendant, John P. Cobb, and one Calvert Spensley were
appointed executors of Mrs. Cobb's will, and so administered her estate that in July, 1908, they filed their final
account as executors, reciting that the estate was wholly
distributed, with the exception of twenty shares of the
capital stock of the First National BaDnk of Mineral Point,
which the account stated the executors had caused
to
be transferred to themselves and registered in their names
as trustees for Catherine Monohan.
The bank became insolvent and. the Comptroller of the
Currency on the third day of November, 1909, made an
assessment of $100 upon each share of the capital stock
of the bank for the payment of creditors.
The defendant was a son of the deceased, and, as legatee
and distributee, received a sum of money greater than the
amount of the assessment on the twenty bank shares.
The foregoing facts are all derived from the bill filed in

WILLIAMS v. COBB.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

this case, to which the defendant demurred. The District
Court sustained the demurrer and entered an order dismissing the bill. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
this decree, and the case is here upon appeal.
The theory upon which this suit was commenced is that
the transfer of the twenty shares of bank stock by Cobb
and Spensley, as executors, to themselves, as trustees for
Catherine Monohan, is void; that the stock is as if it had
never been transferred at all and is therefore an undistributed asset of the estate of Mrs. Cobb, and that the
defendant, having received as legatee and distributee
much more than the amount of the assessment, is liable
under the Wisconsin statute to the Receiver for the assessment, a debt of the estate, all the other assets having
been distributed before the 'failure of the bank.
Obviously the question as to the liability of the defendant turns upon whether the transfer of the stock to Cobb
and Spensley, as trustees for Catherine Monohan, is void
or voidable, for if it is voidable only this suit was improvidently commenced. At common law, and no Wisconsin
statute is cited to modify the rule, an executor has full
power, without any special provision of the will that he is
administering or order of court, to sell or dispose of the
personal assets of the estate, and thereby to pass good
title to them. Munteith v. Rahn, 14 Wisconsin, 210; In
re Gay, 5 Massachusetts, 419; Leitch v. Wells, 48 N. Y.
585; Perry on Trusts, §§ 225, 809. A sale by an executor,
even to himself, is not void, but only voidable at the option of interested persons. Grim's Appeal, 105 Pa. St.
375; Tate v. Dalton, 41 N. Car. 562. And if, after such
purchase from himself, an executor sells to another, the
purchaser from him acquires a good title. Cannon v.
Jenkins, 16 N. Car. 422.
*No suggestion is made that the transfer of the stock by
the executors to themselves as trustees was not made in
good faith and it was obvipusly made under the conviction

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

that it was, if not "an interest bearing security, " at least
the equivalent of such a security. Very certainly this
was the basis for the approval of the transaction by the
appropriate Wisconsin court more than a year before
the bank failed, and, for anything that appears in the
record, prior to the time when the bank became insolvent.
The claim that the lower court failed to give proper
effect to § 2091 of the Wisconsin statute cannot be allowed.
The part of this section which is claimed to be applicable
reads:
"When a trust shall be expressed in the instrument
creating the estate, every sale, conveyance or other act
of the trustees in contravention of the trust shall be absolutely void."
This section is found in a chapter devoted to "Uses and
Trusts" of the title "Real Property and the nature and
quality of Estates Therein" and the claim is made that
its drastic provision should be extended to trusts in personal property.. No Wisconsin court has so applied it,
but, on the contrary, the Supreme Court of the State,
in Lamberton v. Pereles, 87 Wisconsin, 449, refused to
make other sections of this same chapter respecting real
estate applicable to personal property, saying "In this
state we have no statute making the chapter on uses and
trusts, or any part of it, applicable to personal property."
It is significant also that in the statute dealing with" Trust
Investments," no such provision is found. - Wis. Stat.
Sup., § 2100b.
It results that, since the executors had lawful authority
to dispose of the bank shares, assets as they were of the
estate, so long as the transfer is permitted to stand unassailed directly the title to them is in the defendant and
Spensley, as trustees for Catherine Monohan, and that
the estate of Mrs. Cobb is not liable to the Receiver for
the assessment claimed. If the estate is not liable the

CLARK DISTILLING CO. v. WEST'N MD. RY. CO.
242 U. S.

311

Syllabus.

defendant, as legatee and distributee, is not liable and
the claim in suit, obviously without natural equity, is
therefore without technical merit and the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.

CLARK DISTILLING COMPANY v. WESTERN
MARYLAND RAILWAY COMPANY AND STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
CLARK DISTILLING COMPANY v. AMERICAN
EXPRESS COMPANY AND STATE OF WEST
VIRGINIA.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MARYLAND.

Nos. 75, 76. Argued May 10, 11, 1915; restored to docket for reargument
November 1, 1915; reargued November 8, 9, 1916.-Decided January 8,
1917.
The West Virginia prohibition law of February,. 1913, Code 1913,
c. 32A, as amended by Acts of 1915, p. 33, id. p. 660, includes in its
prohibitions the bringing into the State by carriers of intoxicating
liquors intended for personal use and the receipt and possession of
such liquors, when so introduced, for personal use.
Since the right asserted by the plaintiff is a permanent right to ship
such liquors into the State, the decision concerns the state law as
now amended, though the amendment occurred after the decision
of the court below and after the first argument in this court.
Without considering whether governmental power respecting intoxicating liquors extends to the prohibition of personal use, the right
to restrict the means of procuring them for that purpose exists as an
incident to the indubitable power to forbid manufacture and sale.
Therefore these prohibitions of the West Virginia law are not offensive to the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The prohibitions, however, unless sanctioned by a valid law of Congress, would be repugnant to the Constitution as a direct burden

