CHICAGO, &c. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

CHICAGO, TERRE HAUTE & SOUTHEASTERN
RAILWAY COMPANY v. ANDERSON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.

No. 34.

Argued October 25, 1916.-Decided December 18, 1916.

When a state statute is unobjectionable as applied in the case in which
it is attacked, it will not be held unconstitutional upon a construction
which has not been given, and may never be given, by the Supreme
Court of the State. Plymouth Coal Co; v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S.
531, 546.
A statute of Indiana (Laws 1889, p. 146, c. 82; 2 Bums'Ann. Ind.Stats.
1914, §§ 5524, 5525) requiring all railroad companies doing business
in the State to cut down and destroy noxious weeds "on lands occupied by them in any city, village or township of this State," and
providing a penalty of twenty-five dollars in case of default, to be
recovered in a civil action "by any person feeling himself aggrieved,"
is not violative of the due process or equal protection clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment, as applied to a case in which the lands in
question are part of a railroad right of way, and the "person feeling
himself aggrieved" is the owner of lands contiguous thereto who
does not appear to have been guilty of similar neglect. Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. May, 194 U. S.267.
Semble, that the act under review permits but one recovery for the
same offense within the same territory.
182 Indiana, 140, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William F. Peter, with whom Mr. James C. Hutchins
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
No brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the-

court.
A statute of Indiana provides as follows:
"Sec. 1. . . . That all railroad corporations doing

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinionof the Court.

242 U. S.

business in this State shall, between the first day of July
and ihe twentieth day of August in each year, cause all
thistles, burrs, docks and other noxious weeds growing on
lands occupied by them in any city, village or township of
this State, to be cut down and destroyed.
"Sec. 2., In case any railroad company shall refuse or
neglect to comply with the requirements specified in the
first section of this act, such company shall be liable in a
penalty of twenty-five dollars, to be prosecuted for in an
action of debt by any person feeling himself aggrieved.
Said suit may be brought before any Justice of the Peace
in the county, who shall require of the complainant surety
to pay costs in case he fails to maintain his action. Summons may be served on any agent or officer of the company."
The company was proceeded against under this statute
by defendant in error, who alleged that the railroad company is a corporation doing business in the State and
that one of the branches of its railway lines intersects
and runs through his land for a distance of V of a mile
in the township of Curry, Sullivan County, Indiana, and
that the company, between July 1, 1911, and August 20,
1911, refused and neglected to cause all noxious weeds
(following the words of the statute) growing on lands
occupied by it in the township and county designated
above to be cut down and destroyed, and especially on
its lands running through the lands of defendant in error.
He also alleged that he felt himself aggrieved theteby and
had been damaged in the sum of $25 and should receive
the statutory penalty of $25.
The company demurred to the complaint for insufficiency to constitute a cause of action, filing therewith a.
memorandum alleging among other things that' the act
was unconstitutional.
. The demurrer was overruled and the company filed a
general denial of the allegations of the complaint.

CHICAGO &c. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

After hearing a penalty was imposed upon the company
in the sum of $25. It filed a motion in arrest of judgment
in which it repeated that the law was unconstitutional.
The motion was overruled and judgment entered against
the company. It was affirmed by the Supreme Court.
In that court the ground was specifically urged that the
statute offended the equal protection and due process
clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of the United States. The court considered both contentions and rejected both, and to review its decision this
writ of error is prosecuted.
As offending against the equal protection assured by
the Fourteenth Amendment the company complains that
occupiers of land are separated into two classes- ' (1) raiway corporations and (2) all others." This, it is insisted,
"is an unnatural and unjustifiable classification with respect to the obligation imposed of cutting down weeds
growing on lands occupied, as there is no relation between
the line of division of the classes and the subject matter."
Gulf, Colorado & Santa F6 Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150,
and Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, are
cited. We need not pause to review them or the many
cases decided since them explaining the wide discretion a
legislature has in the classification of the objects of legislation, for immediately repellent to plaintiff in error's contention is Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. May, 194
U. S. 267. 'In that case a statute of Texas imposed a
penalty on railroad companies for permitting Johnson
grass and Russian thistle to go to seed upon their rights
of way. A right of action for the penalty was given to
contiguous owners. The act was sustained, but certain
distinctions between that statute and the Indiana statute
are pointed out. These distinctions are: (1) The Texas
statute gave the penalty to contiguous land owners; the
Indiana statute gives it to "any person feeling himself
aggrieved."
(2) The Texas statute required the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

tiguous land owner to be free from the same neglect; the
Indiana statute does not impose this limitation. (3) The
Texas statute is limited to the railroad's rights of way;
the Indiana statute applies to all lands occupied by a
railroad "in any city, village or township."
How discriminating and arbitrary these distinctions
make the Indiana statute as compared with the Texas
statute and remove the latter from authority is variously
illustrated by plaintiff in error.
The Supreme Court of Indiana is not specific as to these
contentions. On the authority of Pennsylvania Co. v.
State, 142 Indiana, 428, and Western Union Telegraph Co.
v. Ferguson, 157 Indiana, 37, the court decided that it
was neither necessary to aver in the complaint nor prove
that the person bringing the action had suffered actual
damages. The court said: "The penalty imposed is for
violation of a duty required of appellant [the railway
company], and it is not in a position to complain that
the penalty when collected shall be paid to the complaining party, and this is not available in defense of an action
for the recovery of the penalty prescribed."
In Pennsylvania Co. v. State the penalty was imposed
for failure of railroads to provide blackboards in their
passenger stations showing the time of arrival and departure of trains, the act providing that one-half of the
recovery should go to the prosecuting attorney. It was
held that this was a method of compensating that officer
and to encourage the actual enforcement of the law against
its violators and not intended to require him to become
a party litigant.
In the second case a statute was considered that required telegrams to be transmitted with impartiality and
in the order of time in which they were received, and
without discrimination as to rates. It was provided that
any person or company violating the act should be liable
to "any party aggrieved in a penalty of $100 for each

CHICAGO &c. RY. CO. v. ANDERSON.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

offense, to be recovered in a civil action in any court of
competent jurisdiction." It was held that the party
aggrieved "is the person whose message the telegraph
company has refused to receive or failed to transmit on
the terms or in the manner prescribed by the statute,"
and that it was not necessary for him to show that he had
sustained any actual damages; that he might recover compensation for damages independently of the statute which
-furnished a cumulative remedy.
Both cases illustrate the principle that a penalty imposed by a statute may be given to an informer or prosecutor as a means of enforcing the statute-as a means of
its public vindication-and necessarily there could be but
one recovery in the designated territory. But we cannot
say whom, under the statute under review in this case,
the court would consider a "party aggrieved," or who
could be considered as a "person feeling himself aggrieved," to use the language of the statute, whether a
contiguous land owner, or other land owner, or whether
any person could be aggrieved within the meaning of the
statute if he himself was guilty of the same neglect as the
railroad company. Nor can we say how the Supreme
Court would decide as to what was meant-by "lands occupied by" railroad corporations; whether this would
mean only their rights of way, the designation of "in any
city, village or township" being only for the purpose of
venue, or mean, which is difficult to suppose, the corporation's "roundhouses, shops, yards, repair tracks, turntables and other buildings and structures used in connection" with the business of a railroad, which seems to be
the alarm of plaintiff in error. At any rate, such construction has not yet been given and may never be given and
we cannot anticipate that it ever will be given and on
that anticipation hold the statute invalid. We have
heretofore expressed the propriety of waiting, when a
state statute is attacked for unconstitutionality, until the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Parties.

242 U. S.

state court has given it a construction which may justify
the attack. Plymouth Coal Co., v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S.
531, 546. The statute has only been applied in favor of a
contiguous land holder and only one recovery has been
permitted. So limited we think its validity must be admitted under the doctrine of the May. Case. But we
express no opinion concerning the consequences if a
broader construction should, be accepted by the state.
court.
Judgment affirmed.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. OHIO VALLEY TIE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 66.

Argued November 3, 6, 1916.-Decided December 18. 1916.

Under §§ 8, 9 and 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, all damages
properly attributable to the exaction of excessive rates by carriers
in interstate commerce may be awarded in a proceeding before the
Interstate Commerce Commission; and, when damages because of
such rates have been so awarded, and satisfied, further damages
resulting from the same cause may not be recovered through independent proceedings in court.
161 Kentucky, 212, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Helm Bruce, with whbm Mr. Henry L. Stone was
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward W. Hines and Mr. John Bryce Baskin, with
whom Mr. J. V. Norman was on the briefs, for defendant
in error.

