SWIFT & CO. v. HOOVER.
242 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

thing in this record that it would not have done so except
in reliance upon the tax exemption extended to it by the
legislature. By the terms of that act, the state court has
held a revocable privilege was extended and no irrepealable contract was entered into. Bearing in mind our own
right of independent examination of questions of this
character, we are unable to say that the conclusion reached
is not well founded in law and in fact.
It follows that the judgment of the state court must be
Affirmed.

SWIFT & COMPANY ET AL. v. HOOVER.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 101.

Submitted November 14, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

A decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia refusing to
adjudicate defendant a bankrupt is not directly reviewable in this
court.
Under ยง 24 of the Bankruptcy Act and ยง 252 of the Judicial Code, only
controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings, and not the steps
taken in the proceedings themselves, afford basis for direct appeal to
this court from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Quwre: Whether Congress has omitted to provide for appellate review
of bankruptcy adjudications of the Supreme Court of the District of
Columbia.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Arthur A. Birney, Mr. H. W. Wheatley and Mr.
Lucas P. Loving for plaintiffs in error and appellants.
Mr. E. F. Colladay for defendant in error and appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This case is brought here by appeal and allowance of
writ of error, from a decree of the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, adjudging Hoover not a bankrupt.
Counsel for the appellee and defendant in error urges that
the appeal and writ be dismissed, but does not argue the
question of the jurisdiction of this court; but, as such matters are noticed by this court whether specially urged by
counsel or not, as it concerns our jurisdiction, we proceed
to consider it. Mansfield &c. Ry. Co. v. Swan, 111 U. S.
379.

The provisions of the Bankruptcy Act for consideration
in this connection are:
"Section 24. The Supreme Court of the United States,
the circuit courts of appeals of the United States, and the
supreme courts of the Territories, in vacation in chambers
and during their respective terms, as now or as they may
be hereafter held, are hereby invested with appellate
jurisdiction of controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy from which they
have appellate jurisdiction in other cases. The Supreme
Court of the United States shall exercise a like jurisdiction from courts of bankruptcy not within any organized
circuit of the United States and from the supreme court
of the District of Columbia .
"Section 25. That appeals, as in equity cases, may be
taken in bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy to the circuit court of appeals of the United States,
and to the supreme court of the Territories, in the following cases, to wit: (1) from a judgment adjudging or refusing to adjudge the defendant a bankrupt;

"

The game provision as to the review by this court of
controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings is carried
into the Judicial Code, ยง 252, in which provision is made
for the review in this court of controversies arising in bank-

SWIFT & CO. v. HOOVER.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ruptcy proceedings in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia.
It is apparent from reading these sections of the statute
that a direct appeal to this court from the Supreme Court
of the District of Columbia is allowed only in controversies arising in bankruptcy proceedings, and not from the
steps in a bankruptcy proceeding. The nature of such
controversies has been frequently considered in decisions
of this court, and needs little discussion now. Such controversies embrace litigation which arises after the adjudication in bankruptcy, sometimes by intervention, the
parties claiming title to property in the hands of the trustee, or other actions, usually plenary in character, concerning the right and title to the bankrupt's estate. Such
proceedings as the present one, resulting in a decree refusing to adjudicate the defendant a bankrupt, are but
steps in a bankruptcy proceeding and not controversies
arising in bankruptcy proceedings within the meaning
of the statute. Denver First National Bank v. Klug, 186
U. S. 202.
The decisions of this court in Tefft, Weller & Company
v. Munsuri, 222 U. S. 114, and Munsuri v. Fricker, 222
U. S. 121, are decisive of this point. In the first of these
cases there was an attempt to prosecute a direct appeal to
this court from the District Court of the United States
for Porto Rico, where the proceeding was based upon a
claim in bankruptcy. It was there held that an order of
the bankruptcy court of Porto Rico, disallowing the claim,
was not a controversy arising in a bankruptcy proceeding
within the meaning of the statute. The contention that
such action, based upon a claim filed in a bankruptcy
proceeding, was appealable to this court was denied, the
court saying:
"But the entire argument rests upon a misconception
of the words 'controversies in bankruptcy proceedings,'
as used in the section, since it disregards the authoritative

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

construction affixed to those words. Coder v. Arts, 213
U. S. 223, 234; Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S.
296, 300. Those cases expressly decide that controversies
in bankruptcy proceedings as used,.in the section do not
include mere steps in proceedings in bankruptcy, but embrace controversies which are not of that inherent character, even although they may arise in the course of proceedings in bankruptcy."
It is true that in Audubon v. Shufeldt, 181 U. S. 575,
and in Armstrong v. Fernandez, 208 U. S. 324, this court
did review proceedings in bankruptcy-in one case from.
the District of Columbia, and in the other from the District Court of the United States for Porto Rico. Of the
Armstrong Case, which was a review by appeal of an
adjudication of bankruptcy, this court, in the Tefft,
Weller & Company Case, supra, said:
"It is true, as suggested in argument, that in Armstrong
v. Fernandez, 208 U. S. 324, jurisdiction was exerted to
review the action of the court below in a case which was
not susceptible of being reviewed under the construction
of the statute which we have here applied. But in that
case there was no appearance'of counsel for the appellee,
and while a general suggestion was made in the argument
of appellant as to the duty of the court not to exceed its
jurisdiction, no argument concerning the want of jurisdiction was made. The case therefore in substance proceeded upon a tacit assumptipn of the exiIstence of jurisdiction, an assumption which would not be now possible
in consequence of the authoritative construction given to
ยง 24 (a) in Coder v. Arts, supra. Under these circumstances, the mere implication as to the meaning of the
statute resulting from the jurisdiction which was in that
case merely assumed to exist, is not controlling and the
Armstrong Case, therefore, in so far as it conflicts with
the construction which we here give the statute, must be
deemed to be qualified and limited."

KANSAS CITY &c. R. R. CO. v. STILES.
242 U. S.

111

Syllabus.

It may be true that Congress has failed to give an appellate review in proceedings in bankruptcy from the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia from a decree
with reference to an adjudication in bankruptcy, but, as
observed in the Tefft, Weller & Company Case, that does
not give this court authority to assume jurisdiction not
given to it by law.
It follows that the appeal and writ of error must be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Dismissed.

KANSAS CITY, MEMPHIS & BIRMINGHAM
RAILROAD COMPANY v. STILES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

No. 212.

Submitted October 17, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Three corporations, formed, and .operating railways, in Alabama,
Tennessee and Mississippi, respectively, consolidated themselves
under the laws of each of those States. The consolidated company
succeeded to all the property of the constituents and issued its
shares in lieu of theirs. As construed by the court below, the law
of Alabama, under which the consolidation was there effected, constituted the new company a d9mestic corporation of that State;
and, treating it as such, the State has imposed a franchise tax, not'
unreasonable in amount, based upon its entire paid-up capitalization.
Held: (1) That, subject to the limitations of the Federal Constitution,
the existence and status of the consolidated corporation in Alabama
were dependent on the Alabama laws.
(2) That the tax being a franchise tax, imposed equally upon all corporations of the State, consolidated or otherwise, and based in each
instance on the entire paid-up capitalization, no arbitrary classification emerges either (a) because the consolidated corporation has,
and a purely intrastate corporation might not have, property outside
of the State; or (b) because foreign corporations are taxed only on

