UNITED STATES v. AMER.-ASIATIC S. S. CO.
242 U. S.

537

Opinion of the Court.

this court can review, Baldwin v. Kansas, 129 U. S. 52,
Oxley Stave Co. v. Butler County, 166 U. S. 648, and therefore, for want of jurisdiction, the writ of error is
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. AMERICAN-ASIATIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY ET AL.
UNITED STATES v. PRINCE LINE, LIMITED,
ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Nos. 138, 169.

Motions to reverse and remand with instructions to dis-

miss petitions without prejudice. Submitted December 4, 1916.-Decided January 22, 1917.
The agreements between British, German and American steamship
companies which were assailed as contrary to the Anti-Trust Act of
July 2, 1890, having necessarily been dissolved by the European
War, and the questions raised by the bills having thereby become
moot when the decrees of the court below were entered, the decrees
are reversed and the cases remanded with directions to dismiss the
bills without prejudice--as in United States v. Hamburg-American
Co., 239 U. S. 466.
220 Fed. Rep. 230, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant to the Attorney
General Todd for the United States, in support of the
motions.
Memorandum opinion by MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE,
by direction of the court.
The United States sued to restrain the carrying out of
agreements between British, German and American steam-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

ship companies who were defendants, on the ground that
they were in violation of the Anti-Trust Act of July 2,
1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209. Overruling the contention that
that act did not relate to contracts concerning ocean
carriage, the court entered decrees against the United
States in both cases dismissing the bills for want of equity
on the ground that the assailed agreements were not in
conflict with the Anti-Trust Act except as to a particular
discrimination found to have been practiced in one of the
cases which was provided against. 220 Fed. Rep. 230.
At the time this action was taken by the court below, as
the result of the European War, the assailed agreements
had been dissolved and the questions raised by the bills
were therefore purely moot, as directly decided to be the
case as to a similar situation in United States v. HamburgAmerican Co., 239 U. S. 466.
Under these circumstances the request now made by the
United States that the doctrine announced in the HamburgAmerican Case be applied to both of these cases and the
relief afforded in that case be awarded, is well founded and
must be granted. It follows, therefore, that the decrees
below must be reversed and the cases be remanded to the
court below with directions to dismiss the bills without
prejudice to the right of the United States in the future
to assail any actual contract or combination deemed to
offend against the Anti-Trust Act.
And it is so ordered.

