OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus..

242 U. S.

State v. Hutchinson Ice Cream Co., 168 Iowa, 1, 15, which
is of course binding on us. We cannot assume, in the
absence of a definite and authbritative ruling, that the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania would construe the law
of that State otherwise. The conviction here under review
was for selling the "compound" as ice cream, so that we
are not called upon to determine'whether the State may
in the exercise of its police power prohibit the sale even of a
wholesome product, ifthe public welfare appear to require
such action-and if, as here, interstate commerce is not
involved. See Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 685;
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1, 15.
In view of the conclusion stated above, it is unnecessary
to consider Whether the statutes are or are not sustainable
as health measures; and upon this we express no opinion.
The judgment in each case is
Affirmed.

KANE v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 51.

Argued October 31, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

In. regulating the use of motor vehicles upon its highwAys, (Hendrick
v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610), a State may require nonresident owners
to appoint a state official as agent upon whom process may be served
in legal proceedings biought against them, and resulting from the
operation of their motor vehicles, within the State.
A registration fee, not unreasonable in amount, which is exacted by
a State from residents and nonresidents alike as a condition to the
use of its highways by motor vehicles, is not a discrimination against
the citizens of other States either (a) because the amount of the
fee is fixed for each calendar year without reference to the extent

KANE v. NEW JERSEY.
242 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to which the highways are used, or (b) because the liability of nonresidents to pay is not tempered by the allowance of any period of
free use in reciprocation for like privileges allowed by the States in
which they reside.
It is clearly within the discretion of the State to determine whether
the compensation for the use of highways by automobiles shall be
determined by way of a fee, payable annually or semi-annually,
or by a toll based on mileage or otherwise.
The power of the State, in the absence of national legislation upon
the subject, to regulate the use of its highways by motor vehicles
moving in interstate commerce, applies as well to such as are moving
through the State as to such as are moving into it only..
As applied to vehicles of nonresidents moving in interstate commerce
as well as to vehicles of residents, the amount of the registration
fee may properly be based not only on the cost of inspection and
regulation, but also on the cost of maintaining improved roads.
Hendrick v. Maryland, supra, explained and followed.
81 N. J. L. 594, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. John W. Griggs and Mr. Charles Thaddeus Terry
for plaintiff in error:

The history of the legislation, with ยง 37 of the statute,
providing for the disposition of the moneys received,
proves that the Legislature intended to impose the fees for
revenue purposes. The record shows affirmatively that
in a very short period the income was vastly in excess of
the cost of registration and inspection. This was pure

profit.

In this important respect the case differs very

materially from Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610,
for there the fees were no more than sufficient to defray
the cost of registration.

In the Hendrick Case it did not appear that a license to
operate had been obtained in Maryland. The fact that
Kane had such a license in New Jersey discriminates the
two cases. In the former, the power of the State to
regulate and therein to impose taxes for revenue was based

upon the danger in the operation of iotor vehicles as well

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

242 U. S.

as their destructive effect upon roads, and not upon the
proposition that such vehicles are inherently dangerous
agencies, and as such subject to be regulated out of existence. It being well settled that they do not bear that
character but are lawful vehicles, entitled to equal rights
on the highways (Vincent & Seymour v. Crandall & Godley
Co., 131 N. Y. App. Div. 200; Indiana Springs Co. v.
Brown (Ind.), 74 N. E. Rep. 615; Mason v. West, 61 N. Y.
App. Div. 40; City of Chicago v. Banker, 112 Ill. App.,94),
it follows that they cannot be singled out to be specially
taxed for general revenue purposes.
The right to use the streets is a natural right of every
citizen which cannot be converted into a privilege by a
legislative fiat.
Again, in the Hendrick Case it did not appear, as here;
that there had been compliance as to license and registration, etc., with the laws of his own domicile by the owner
of the machine. The record also did not contain sufficient
facts on which it could be determined that Hendrick was
engaged in interstate commerce. The question raised here,
viz., whether the State may impose a pure tax upon a
vehicle of a nonresident for the use of its roads while he
is engaged in interstate commerce, was neither presented
nor decided in that case. Maintaining roads is one of
the regular functions of government, and taxes to defray
the cost are like any other taxes levied to meet governmental expenses generally. Such taxes cannot be lawfully imposed on interstate commerce.
The tax is not sustainable, like tolls or wharfage, as a
charge for the use of "artificial facilities." The cases of
Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg, 107 U. S. 691, 699;
Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 543, 548, 549; Monongahela
Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, 329, 330;
and authorities cited in the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352, at p. 405, do not sustain it. In the Minnesota
Rate Cases the charge was for tolls for the actual use of

KANE v. NEW JERSEY.
242 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the facility and proportioned to the amount of such user.
Here the tax is imposed for registration of the vehicle
Whether there be any subsequent user or not, and quite
irrespective of the extent of such user. See Adams Express
Co. v. City of New York, 232 U. S. 14; Muehlenbrinck v.
Commissioners, 13 Vroom, 364-368.
To impose the tax on motors alone would be an unlawful discrimination in favor of all other kinds of vehicles,
such as express wagons and farm trucks, upon which the
law lays no charge. See Adams Express Co. v. City of
New York, supra; Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v.
Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Cotting v. Kansas City Stock Yards,
183 U. S. 79; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S.
540; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
To avoid such discrimination the charge should be
based not on the character of the vehicle, but on the use
of the road. The tax should apply to all classes using the
special facilities (if such they can be regarded); and. if it
be considered a recompense for wear of roads, the fee
should be adjusted in proportion to the damage done by
each class.
The tax is not supportable as a tax upon occupation or
privilege. The privilege of a citizen to pass from one
State over the highways of another cannot be impaired
by any state legislation. In this case the burden on
interstate commerce is direct. Nonresidents have to pay
a gross fee for the privilege of entering and- traversing
New Jersey.
In requiring of nonresidents thq filing of a power of
attorney to accept service, the law abridges the privileges
of citizens of other States. This power of attorney is
made a condition precedent to the right of passage. It
thus discriminates against nonresidents, since residents
are not so compelled to submit to jurisdiction in advance
of legal proceedings.
The vehicle is not taxable in New Jersey as property;

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

its situs is elsewhere for direct taxation, and under the
equal protection clause the people of all States are guaranteed the right of free ingress and egress, whether by
motor or any other class of vehicle, without having their
vehicles taxed.
Mr. Herbert Boggs, with whom Mr. John W. Wescott,
Attorney General of the State of New Jersey, was on the
brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The New Jersey automobile law of 1906, as amended in
1908 (P. L. 1908, p. 613), provides in substance that no
person, whether a resident or nonresident of the State,
shall drive an automobile upon a public highway unless he
shall.have been licensed so to do and the automobile shall
have been registered under the statute; and also that a
nonresident owner shall appoint the Secretary of State
his attorney upon whom process may be served "in any
action or legal proceeding caused by the operation of his
registered motor vehicle, within this State, against such
owner." The statute fixes the driver's license fee for cars
of less than thirty horse power at two dollars and more
than thirty horse power at four dollars. It fixes the
registration fee at three dollars for cars of not more than
ten horse power; five dollars for those from eleven to
twenty-nine horse power; and ten dollars for those of
thirty or greater horse power. Both license fees and
registration fees, whensoever issued, expire at the close of
the calendar year. The moneys received from license and
registration fees in excess of the amount required for the
maintenance of the Motor Vehicle Department are to be
applied to the maintenance of the improved highways.
Penalties are prescribed for using the public highways

KANE v. NEW JERSEY.
242

[.S.

Opinion of the Court.

without complying with the requirements of the act. The
material portions of the statute are copied in the margin. 1
Kane, a resident of New York, was arrested while driving his automobile on the public highways of New Jersey
, "Part IV.-THE

OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.

"16.-(1) Every resident of this State and every nonresident, whose
automobile shall be driven in this State, shall, before using such vehicle
on the public highways, register the same, and no motor vehicle shall be
driven unless so registered. Every registration shall expire and the certificate thereof become void on the thirty-first of December of each year;
provided, it may be lawful for any automobile duly registered, to operate
under said registration certificate for a period not exceeding thirtyone days after the expiration, of said registration certificate.
The applicant shall pay the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles for each
registration, a fee of three dollars for automobiles of the first class; five
dollars for the second class; and ten dollars for the third class. Automobiles of ten horsepower or less, shall be'of the first class; from eleven
to twenty-nine horsepower, inclusive, of the second class; and of thirty
horsepower or more, of the third class. . . . Each owner having a
residence oitside of the State shall file with the Secretary of State a
duly executed instrument, constituting the Secretary of State, and his
successors in office, the true and lawful attorney upon whom all original
process in any action or legal proceeding cauged by the operation of his
registered motor vehicle, within the State, against such owner may be
served, and therein shall agree that any original process against such
owner shall be of the same force and effect as if served on such owner
within this State; the service of such process shall be made by leaving a
copy of the same in the office of the Secretary of State, with a service fee
of two dollars, to be taxed on the plaintiff's costs of suit. Said Commissioner of Motor Vehicles shall forthwith notify such owner of such
service by letter directed to him at the post office address stated in his
application. .
"17.-No person shall hereafter drive an automobile upon any public
highway in this State, unless licensed to do so in accordance with the
provisions of this act. No person under the age of sixteen years shall be
licensed to drive automobiles, nor shall any person be licensed to drive
automobiles until said person shall have passed a satisfactory examination as to his ability as an operator. . . . There shall be two classes
of drivers' licenses. Those authorizing the licensee to drive cars of less
than thirty horsepower shall be of the first class, and those authorizing

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

and tried in the Recorder's Court. The following facts
were stipulated: Kane had been duly licensed as a driver
under the laws of both New York and New Jersey. He
had registered his car in New York but not in New Jersey.
He had not filed with the Secretary of State of New Jersey
the prescribed instrument appointing that official his
attorney upon whom process might be served. When
arrested he was on his way from New York to Pennsylvania. The aggregate receipts from license and registration fees for the year exceeded the amount required to
defray the expenses of the Motor Vehicle Department, so
that a large sum became available for maintenance of the
improved roads of the State. Kane contended that the
statute was invalid as to him, a nonresident, because it
violated the Constitution and laws of the United States
regulating interstate commerce and also because it violated
the licensee to drive cars of thirty and greater horsepower shall be of
the second class. The annual license fee to be charged shall be two
dollars for drivers of the first class, and four dollars for drivers of the
second class.

"Part X.-MISCELLANEOUS.
"37.-Moneys received in accordance with the provisions of this
act, whether from fines, penalties, registration fees, license fees, or
otherwise, shall be accounted for and forwarded to the Commissioner of
Motor Vehicles and by him paid over to the Treasurer of the State of
New Jersey, to be appropriated annually t the Commssioner of
Public Roads, to be used as a fund for the repair of the improved roads
throughout the State, whether they had been originally built by State
aid or not, and to be by the said Commissioner, apportioned once each
year among the several counties of this State according to the mileage
of improved roads in each county, the share apportioned each county
to be used for the repair of improved roads in that county under the
direction of the Commissioner of Public Roads or his authorized representatives, and to be paid in the same manner as State funds are now
paid for the improvement of public roads.. The term 'improved
roads' as used i this section shall not include streets Paved with cobble
stones, Belgium blocl or asphalt."

KANE v. NEW JERSEY.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Fourteenth Amendment. These contentions were
overruled; and he was fined five dollars. The conviction
was duly reviewed both in the Supreme Court and by the
Court of Errors and Appeals. The contentions were repeated in both of those courts; and both courts affirmed
the conviction. Kane v. New Jersey, 81'N. J. L. 594! The
case was brought here by writ of error.
The power of a State to regulate the use of motor
vehicles on its highways has been recently considered by
this court and broadly sustained. It extends to nonresidents as well as to residents., It includes the right to
exact reasonable compensation for special facilities afforded as well as reasonable provisions to ensure safety.
And it is properly exercised in imposing a license fee
graduated according to the horse power of the engine.
Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610. Several reasons are
urged why that case should not be deemed controlling:
1. The Maryland law did not require the nonresident
to appoint an agent within the State upon whom process
may be served. But it was recognized in discussing it,
that "the movement of motor vehicles over the highways
is attended by constant and serious dangers to the public" (p. 622). We know that ability to enforce criminal
and civil penalties for transgression is-an aid to securing
observance of laws. And in view of the speed of the automobile and the habits of men, we cannot say that the
Legislature of New Jersey was unreasonable in believing
that ability to establish, by legal proceedings within the
State, any financial liability of nonresident owners, was
essential to public safety. There is nothing to show that
the requirement is unduly burdensome in practice. It is
not a discrimination against nonresidents, denying them
equal protection of the law. On the contrary, it puts nonresident owners upon an equality with resident owners.
2. The Maryland law contained a reciprocal provision
by which nonresidents whose cars are duly registered in

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

their home State are given, for a limited period, free use
of the highways in return for similar privileges granted to
residents of Maryland. Such a provision promotes the
convenience of owners and prevents the relative hardship
of having to pay the full registration fee for a brief use of
the highways. It has become common in state legislation;
and New Jersey has embodied it in her law since the trial
of this case in the lower court. But it is not an essential of
valid regulation. Absence of it does, not involve discrimination against non csidents; for any resident similarly
situated would be subjected to the same imposition. A
resident desiring to use the highways only a single day
would also have to pay the full annual fee. The amount
of the fee is not so large as to be unreasonable; and it is
clearly within the discretion of the State to determine
whether the compensation for the use of its highways by
automobiles shall be determined by way of a fee, payable
annually or semi-annually, or by a toll based on mileage or
otherwise. Our decision sustaining the Maryland law was
not dependent upon the existence of the reciprocal provision. Indeed, the plaintiff in error there was not in a
position to avail himself of the reciprocal clause; and it
was referred to only because of the contention that the
law discriminated between nonresidents; that is, that
Maryland extended to residents of other States privileges
it denied to residents of the District of Columbia.
3. In Hendrick v. Maryland, it appeared only that the
nonresident drove his automobile into the State. In this
case it is admitted that he was driving through the State.
The distinction is of no significance. As we there said
(622): "In the absence of national legislation covering the
subject a State may rightfully prescribe uniform regulations necessary for public safety and order in respect to the
operation upon its highways of all motor vehicles-those
moving in interstate commerce as well as others."
4. In the Hendrick Case it did not appear, as here, that

BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R. CO. v. WHITACRE.
242 U. S.

169

Statement of the Case.

the fees collected under the motor vehicle law exceeded the
amount required to defray the expense of maintaining the
r~gulation and inspection department. But the Maryland
statute, like that of New Jersey, contemplated that there
would be such excess and provided that it should be applied to the maintenance of improved roads. And it was
expressly recognized that the purpose of the Maryland
law "was to secure some compensation for the use of
facilities provided at great cost from the class for whose
needs they are essential and whose operations over them
are peculiarly injurious."
The judgment should be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
WHITACRE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.
No. 7i.

Argued November 7, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

In the absence of clear and palpable error,, this court will not disturb
the concurrent findings of state trial and appellate courts upon the
mere sufficiency of the evidence concerning negligence and assumption of risk in a case under the Employers' Liability Act.
Certain requests for instructions are here held rightly refused because
of deficiencies in recitals of facts.
124 Maryland, 411, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

