VANDALIA R. R. v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMM.
242 U. S.

255

Syllabus.

beginning, finds an application to the new territory. This
is giving effect not to the terms of the act of the legislature
but to the terms of the contract with the city, and the
most that can be said against the decision of the Supreme
Court of Michigan is that it gives an erroneous construction to the contract. But since it is settled by many decisions of this court that the contract clause of the Federal
Constitution does not protect contracts against impairment by the decisions of courts except where such decisions give effect to constitutions adopted or laws passed
subsequent to the date of such contracts (Cross LWake
Shooting and Fishing Club v. Louisiana, 224 U. S. 632),
I am of opinion that there is no federal question before
this court in this case and that the writ of error should be
dismissed. This is a high and delicate power which the
court is exercising in this case and it should be resorted
to only in cases which are clear, and, for the reasons thus
briefly stated, I am convinced that this is not such a case.
I am authorized to state that MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS
concurs in this dissent.

VANDALIA RAILROAD COMPANY v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION OF INDIANA, AS THE
SUCCESSOR OF THE RAILROAD COMMISSION
OF INDIANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 81. Submitted November 6, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.
Prior to the Act of March 4, 1915, c. 169, 38 Stat. 1192, and after the
Act of February 17, 1911, c. 103, 36 Stat. 913, the state police power
extended to the regulation of the character of headlights used on

OCTOBER TERM. 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

locomotives employed in interstate commerce. Atlantic Coast Line
v. Georgia, 234 U. S. 280.
A judgment which correctly refused injunctive relief against such
state regulation may not be attacked on writ of error as a judgment
infringing federal rights (Judicial Code, § 237), upon the ground
t hat the same field of regulation has since been occupied by the
federal Government under an act of Congress enacted after the
jpdgment was rendered.
The question whether, because of the Act of 1915, supra, or action
of the Interstate Commerce Commission thereunder, further enforcement of the order of the state commission here involved would
infringe the plaintiff's rights, may be raised and determined in another action without prejudice from this one.
An order of a state commission requiring a carrier to equip its locomotives with headlights of a specified minimum candle-power is not
objectionable as lacking due process, when made on notice and full
hearing, and where the law under which the commission acted afforded opportunity for review in the courts, of which the complaining carrier availed itself.
Complaint that such an order is so indefinite and uncertain as to amount
to a denial of due process will not be heard where the party complaining failed to take advantage of a legal opportunity to have the order
revised through a rehearing before the commission.
182 Indiana, 382, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Samuel 0. Pickens, Mr. F. D. McKenney, Mr. D. P.

Williams and Mr. Owen Pickens for plaintiff in error.

Mr. Evan B. Stotsenburg, Attorney General of the State
of Indiana, Mr. Bert Winters, Mr. Burt New, and Mr.
Wilbur T. GIruber for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PiTNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Railroad Commission of Indiana was created and
broad powers were conferred upon it by an act approved
February 28, 1905, and an amendatory act approved
March 9, 1907. Acts 1905, p. 83; Acts 1907, p. 454; Burns'

VANDALIA R. R. v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMM.
242 U. S.

257

Opinion of the Court.

Ann. Ind. Stats. 1908, §§ 5531 et seq. By a later act
(Acts 1909, p. 323), the Commission was specifically
authorized and directed to investigate the condition and
efficiency of headlights then in use on locomotive engines
on the railroads in the State, determine the most practicable and efficient headlight for all purposes, and make
and enforce against the railroad companies the necessary
orders for the installation of such headlights. Pursuant
to this authority it conducted an investigation, upon
notice to plaintiff in error and all other steam railroad
companies operating in the State, the result of which was
an order, made January 6, 1910, reciting the investigation,
declaring that the oil headlights commonly in use were
inadequate for the protection of persons and property,
and ordering that all engines used in the transportation of
trains over any line of railroad in the State should be
equipped "with headlights of not less than fifteen hundred
candle power." About one month thereafter plaintiff in
error brought an action in a state court of competent
jurisdiction seeking to enjoin enforcement of the order
upon the ground that the Act of 1909 and the order made
pursuant to it were repugnant to the "commerce clause"
of the Constitution of the United States and the statutes
enacted thereunder, and to the "due process clause" of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Among other grounds of
attack it was averred that the order was so vague, indefinite, and uncertain in its description of the headlight
required as to be meaningless and void, because it failed to
specify at what distance from the source of light the illuminating power was to be measured, and whether it was to
be determined by averaging the intensity of the light at a
given distance from its source, and if so at what distance;
that the order did not specify the character of the reflector,
nor whether the required candle-power might be developed by reflectors or lenses, or whether the light must be
of 1500 candle-power independent of such lenses or re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916,'
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

flectors; it being averred that each of these elements was
an essential factor in the ascertainment and measurement
of the illuminating capacity of headlights, and that there
was no known standard by which such capacity might be
measured and expressed in terms of candle-power in the
absence of those factors. From an amended complaint,
and from the Commission's answer thereto, it was made
to appear that after the making 6f the order Mr. Houghton, chairman of a committee appointed to represent the
plaintiff and the other railroad companies named in the
order with respect to presenting a petition to the Commission for a modification of its provisions, made written
application to the Commission for a suspension of the
order and a further hearing upon the subject; that the
Commission replied that under the statute and the practice of the Commission it had authority to alter, change, or
modify any final order made by it, and that the Commission would not suspend the order in question, but would
treat Mr. Houghton's communication as an application for
its modification, and specifying a time for the hearing of
that application; that on the date specified the carriers
appeared by Mr. Houghton, chairman of the committee, and by counsel, and withdrew the application for
modification, whereupon it was dismissed. Plaintiff demurred to the answer, the demurrer was overruled, and,
plaintiff refusing to plead further, final judgment was
rendered against it, and, on appeal, this was affirmed by
the Supreme Court of Indiana; that court holding that
plaintiff's complaint did not show ground for the relief
sought. 182 Indiana, 382. The case comes here upon the
federal questions, under § 237, Jud. Code.
So far as the attack upon the Act of 1909 and the order
made pursuant to it is based upon interference with interstate commerce, it very properly is conceded that, but for a
recent act of Congress, the case would be controlled by
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Georgia, 234 U. S.280, 290,

VANDALIA R. R. v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMM.
242 U. S.

259

Opinion of the Court.

where it was held that in the absence of federal legislation
the States are at liberty, in the exercise of their police
power, to establish regulations for securing safety in the
physical operation of railroad trains within their territory,
even though such trains are used in interstate commerce,
and that (p. 293) the Safety Appliance Acts of Congress,
since they provided no regulations for locomotive headlights, showed no intent to supersede the exercise of state
power With respect to this subject.
But it is insisted that this decision is no longer controlling, because Congress has since then "exercised its
power as to equipment over the entire locomotive and
tender and all parts and appurtenances thereof." The
reference is to the Act of March 4, 1915, c. 169, 38 Stat.
1192, amendatory of the Act of February 17, 1911, requiring common carriers engaged in interstate commerce
to equip their locomotives with safe and suitable boilers
and appurtenances thereto, c. 103, 36 Stat. 913. The
latter act was among those referred to in the Georgia Case,
and held not to oust the authority of the State because it
did not appear either that Congress had acted, or that the
Interstate Commerce Commission, under the authority of
Congress, had established any regulations concerning
headlights. The amendment of 1915 extends the provisions respecting inspection, etc., to the entire locomotive
and all its appurtenances. Whether those provisions
authorize the Interstate Commerce Commission to prescribe any particular type of headlight, or other appliance,
is a question upon which we need not now pass, for the
reason that the decision of the Supreme Court of Indiana,
refusing an injunction to restrain the enforcement of the
state commission's order, was rendered and judgment
thereon entered before the passage by Congress of the
act referred to. Obviously, we cannot say that by that
decision and judgment any right of plaintiff in error under
a law of the United States was infringed, witbin the mean-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

ing of § 237, Jud. Code, when the law creating the supposed right was not enacted until after the judgment. If,
however, by virtue of the provisions of the Act of 1915, or
of any action heretofore or hereafter taken by the Interstate Commerce Commission under it, plaintiff in error is
entitled to an injunction against the further enforcement
of the order of the state commission, that right may be
asserted in another action and will not be prejudiced by
our present decision.
With respect to the question of due process of law, it is
unnecessary to determine whether the Fourteenth Amendment requires that state action, legislative in its nature,
of the character of the order of the Railroad Commission,
shall be preceded by notice and an opportunity for a
hearing. In the case before us, the Supreme Court of
Indiana construed the Act of 1909 as supplemental to the
Act of 1905, which, as amended in 1907 (Acts 1907, p. 469,
§ 6; Burns' Ann. Ind. Stats. 1908, § 5536), gave to any
carrier or other party dissatisfied with any order made by
the Commission a right to resort to the courts in an action
to suspend it or set it aside. Since the order in question
was made after notice and a full hearing, and plaintiff in
error had and exercised the right to a judicial review by
action at law, we concur in the view of the state court that
there has been in this respect no deprivation of property
without due process of law.
The only other point requiring mention is the insistence
that the order is so indefinite and uncertain in its terms as
not to furnish an intelligible measure of the duty of plaintiff in error, and is therefore a denial of due process of law.
Upon this point the state court held, following its previous
decision in Chicago &c. R. Co. v. Railroad Comm., 175
Indiana, 630, 638, that the Railroad Commission itself, by
virtue of the act, had power to grant relief through a rehearing, and that without first resorting to that method of
procedure plaintiff in error was not entitled to have the

MINERALS SEPARATION, LTD. v. HYDE.
242 U. S.

261

Syllabus.

order set aside by the courts. The general rule is that one
aggrieved by the rulings of such an administrative tribunal may not complain that the Constitution of the
United States has been violated if he has not availed himself of the remedies prescribed by the state law for a
rectification of such rulings. Bradley v. City of Richmond,
227 U. S. 477, 485. And since the record shows that plaintiff in error and its associates were accorded a rehearing
upon the very question of modification, but abandoned it,
nothing more need be said upon that point.
Judgment affirmed.

MR. JusTIcE CLARKE took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

MINERALS SEPARATION, LIMITED, ET AL. v.
HYDE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 46.

Argued October 27, 30, 31, 1916; additional argument Novem-

ber 1, 1916.-Decided Decembei 11, 1916.
Patent No. 835120, issued November 6, 1906, to Henry Livingstone
Sulman et at., for improveifaents in the concentration of ores by a
process of oil flotation, is valid as to claims Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and
12, but invalid as to claims Nos. 9, 10 and 11.
The process covered by the patent, as sustained, is simpler and more
economical and has proved more successful than the flotation processes relied on as anticipations; it accomplishes separation of metallic
particles from ore pulp, not through the buoyancy of oil alone, but
largely also through the buoyancy of air bubbles introduced into
the mixture of ore, water and oil by means of an agitation differing
in kind and degree from that previously employed; and it results

