HUTCHINSON ICE CREAM CO. v. IOWA.
242 U. S.

153

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

HUTCHINSON ICE :CREAM COMPANY ET AL. v.
STATE OF IOWA.'
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATH OF IOWA.

CROWL v. COMMONWEALTH OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE $UPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 40, 50. Argued November 13, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.
Laws forbidding the sale, offering for sale, etc., as "Ice Cream" of
any article not containing butter-fat in reasonable proportion fall
fairly within the state police power.
The fact that the name "Ice Cream," as commonly used, includes
many compounds which are entirely wholesome yet contain no
cream or butter-fat, does not render ouch legislation arbitrary or
unreasonable, but tends rather to support it as serving to prevent
the public from being misled in the purchase of a food article of
general consumption.
Whether the State may prohibit the sale of wholesome products if
the public welfare seems to require such action is a question not
involved in these cases.
168 Iowa, 1; 245 Pa. St. 554, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Walter Jeffreys Carlin and Mr. R. L. Parrishfor
plaintiffs in error:
While the police power may be exercised to protect the
public health, morals, safety and general welfare, it may
'Pursuant to stipulation, the case of Sanders Ice Cream Co. et al.
v. State of Iowa, No. 39, October Term, 1916, in error to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa, was argued on the record in the
Hutchinson Case, supra, and disposed of in the same way.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

242 U. S.

not destroy private rights arbitrarily; and whether its
exercise in a given case is valid or not is a judicial question.
"Ice Cream" is a generic term, embracing a large
number and variety of products, many of which, though
entirely wholesome, do not contain either cream of milk
or butter-fat. The term, as generally used and understood, does not imply the presence of such ingredients
in definite proportions or at all. The product, thus
broadly defined, is not an imitation or substitute for any
other confection or food, but an admittedly wholesome
article passing honestly by its own name.
The standard enacted is purely arbitrary. The legislature selects one variety of the product and declares
that henceforth all other varieties of the same product
shall cease to bear the name under which they have customarily been sold for more than a hundred years. The
percentages are without reasonable basis. It also arbitrarily excludes from the standard product ingredients
which are wholesome and commonly employed. Such
arbitrary classifications are unconstitutional. Truax v.
Raich, 229 U. S. 33; People ex rel. Farringtonv. Mensching,
187 N. Y. 8; Nichols v. Ames, 173 U. S. 509, 521; State v.
Miksicek, 125 S. W. Rep. 501.
The legislation has no tendency to prevent fraud. The
cases involving colored oleomargarine have no application,
there being here no substitute for a well known article of
food. See State v. Layton, 61 S. W. Rep. 171, 176. The
cases concerning milk are inapplicable. Milk is a definite
product of nature. Its quality has been standardized to
protect health and prevent fraud. Rigbers v. City of
Atlanta,66 S. E. Rep..991; People v. Biesecker, 169 N. Y.
53, 57. Neither do cases apply which concern regulations
of weight and measure.
This legislation if sustained, must be sustained solely as
tending to prevent fraud, and only on the basis of the

HUTCHINSON ICE CREAM CO. v. IOWA.

155

242 U. S. Counsel for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

situation as it existed before the enactment, not on. the
basis of a situation created by the legislation itself, and
since the incontrovertible facts of common knowledge
absolutely negative the possibility that any purchaser of
ice cream could have been misled by the term "ice cream"
into assuming that the name implied any particular proportionate butter-fat content, or that the product was
made of dairy cream alone, it necessarily follows that no
fraud was possible and hence the law cannot be sustained as a police measure tending to prevent fraud and
deceit.
The legislature cannot prohibit the sale of a wholesome
commodity in the absence of fraud; but such is the effect
of this legislation if sustained. When manufacturers are
deprived of the name under which their product is always
bought and sold, they are deprived of the right to sell it,
their business is injured, and their property taken. The
privilege to sell it as something else is a privilege of no
value.
Under the Pennsylvania law ice cream containing less
than 8 per cent. of butter-fat can not be sold under any
name. This would absolutely forbid the sale of an innocent and wholesome commodity. It can not be done. See
decision of the Iowa Supreme Court in the Hutchinson
Case; also Rigbers v. City of Atlanta, supra; State v. Hanson

(Minn.), 136 N. W. Rep. 412; People v. Marx, 99 N. Y.
383, 387; People v. Biesecker, supra.

Mr. George Cosson, Attorney General of the State of
Iowa, for the State of Iowa.
Mr. William M. Hargest, Deputy Attorney General of

the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, with whom Mr.
Francis Shunk Brown, Attorney General of the Common-

wealth of Pennsylvania, was on the brief, for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

156

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

242 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

court.
These cases were argued together., In each a state
statute which prohibits the sale of ice cream containing
less than a fixed percentage of butter-fat is assailed as
invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment; the Supreme
Court of each State having held its statute constitutional.
-State v. Hutchinson Ice Cream Co., 168 Iowa, 1; Commonwealth v. Crowl, 245 Pa. St. 554. Iowa makes 12 per cent.
the required minimum; Pennsylvania 8 per cent. The
material provisions of the several statutes are copied in
the margin.1
Iowa: Code Supp., 1913, ยง 4999-a20:

"No person, firm or corporation, . . . shall-manufacture or
introduce into the state, or solicit or take orders for delivery, or sell,
exchange, deliver or have in his possession with the intent to sell, exchange or expose or offer for sale or exchange, any article of food which
is adulterated or misbranded, within the meaning of this act."
Code Supp., 1913, ยง 4999-a31e:
"For the purpose of this act, an article of food shall be deemed to be
adulterated:
"First. If any substance or substances has or have been mixed and
packed with it so as to reduce or lower or injuriously affect its quality,
strength or purity.
"Second. If any substance or substances has or have been substituted' wholly or in part for the article.
"Third. If any valuable constituent of the article has been wholly
or in part abstracted.
"Fourth. If it does not conform to the standards established by
law."
Chap. 175, Acts 34th G. A. (1911),.p. 192:
"ICE-CREAM."

"1. Ice-cream is the frozen .product made from pure wholesome
sweet cream, and sugar, with or without flavoring, and if desired, the
addition of not to exceed one per cent. (1%) by weight of a harmless
thickener, and contains not less than twelve per cent. (12%) by weight

HUTCHINSON ICE CREAM CO. v. IOWA.
242 U. S.

157

Opinion of the Court.

The right of the State under the police power to regulate the sale of products with a view to preventing frauds
or protecting the public health is conceded by plaintiffs in
error. And they do not contend that the particular percentages of butter-fat set by Iowa and Pennsylvania are so
exacting as to be in themselves unreasonable. Thirteen
other States haveby similar legislation set 14 per cent. as
the minimum; five other States 12 per cent.; only eight
States have fixed a percentage as low as Pennsylvania; and
of milk fat, and the acidity shall not exceed three tenths (3-10) of one
per cent (1%)."
Pennsylvania: P. L., 1909, p. 63, Purden's Dig., vol. 5, p. 5209:
"An act for the protection of the public health and tp. prevent fraud
and deception in the manufacture, sale, offering for sale, exposing for
sale, and having in possession with intent to sell, of adulterated or
deleterious ice cream; fixing a standard of butter fat for ice cream;
providing penalties for the violation thereof, and providing for the enforcement thereof.,
.

"SEcTION 1. Be it enacted, &c., That no person, firm, or corporate

body, by himself, herself, itself or themselves, or by his, her or their
agents, servants, or employees, shall sell, offer for sale, expose for sale,
or have in possession with intent to sell, ice cream adulterated within
the meaning of this act.
"SECnON 2. Ice cream shall be deemed to be adulterated within the

meaning of this act"First. If it shall contain boric acid, formaldehyde, saccharine, or
any other added substance or compound that is deleterious to health.
"Second. If it shall contain salts of copper, iron oxide, ochres, or any
coloring substance deleterious to health: Provided,That this paragraph
shall not be construed to prohibit the use of harmless coloring matter
in ice cream, when not used for fraudulent purposes.
"Third. If it shall contain any deleterious flavoring matter, or
flavoring matter not true to name.
"Fourth. If it be an imitation of, or offered for sale under, the name
of another article.
"SEcTIoN 4. No ice cream shall be sold within the State containing
less than eight (8) per centum butter fat, except where fruit or nuts are
used for the purpose of flavoring, when it, shall not contain less than
six (6) per centum butter fat."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the United States Department of Agriculture has declared 14 per cent. to be standard.' The main objection
urged is this: To require that ice cream, in order to be
legally salable, must contain some butter-fat is a regulation-so unreasonable and arbitrary as to be a deprivation
of property without due process of law and a denial of the
equal protection of the laws. To support this contention
the following trade facts are shown:
The ice cream of commerce is not iced or frozen cream.
It is a frozen confection-a compound. The ingredients of
this compound may vary widely in character, in the number used and in the proportions in which they are used,
These variations are dependent upon the ingenuity, skill
and judgment of the maker, the relative cost at-a particular time or at a particular place of the possible ingredients, and the requirements of the market in respect to
taste or selling price. Thus,some Philadelphia Ice Cream
is made of only cream, sugar and a vanilla fjavor. In making other Philadelphia Ice Cream the whites of eggs are
added; and according to some formulas Vanilla Ice Cream
may be made without any cream or milk whatsoever; for
instance by proper manipulation of the yolks of eggs, the
whites of eggs, sugar, syrup and the vanilla bean. All of
these different compounds are commonly sold as ice cream;
and none of them is necessarily unwholesome.
Plaintiffs in error contend that as ice cream is shown to
be a generic term embracing a large number and variety of
products and the term as used does not necessarily imply
the use of dairy cream in its composition, it is arbitrary
and unreasonable to limit the, ice cream of commerce to
that containing a fixed minimum of butter-fat. But the
legislature may well have found in these facts persuasive
1 The

requirements of the several States are set forth in U. S. Department of Agriculture (Bureau of Animal Industry) Circular 218, on
Legal Standards for Dairy Products.

HUTCHINSON ICE CREAM CO. v. IOWA.
242 U. S.

159

Opinion of the Court.

evidence that the public welfare required the prohibition
enacted. The facts show that in the absence of legislative
regulation the ordinary purchaser at retail does not and
cannot know exactly what he is getting when he purchases ice cream. He presumably believes that cream or at
least rich milk is among the important ingredients; and he
may make his purchase with a knowledge that butter-fat
is the principal food value in cream or milk. Laws designed to prevent persons from being misled in respect to
the weight, measurement, quality or ingredients of an
article of general consumption are a common exercise of
the police power. The legislature defines the standard
article or fixes some of its characteristics; and it may conclude that fraud or mistake can be effectively prevented
only by prohibiting the sale of the article under the usual
trade name, if it fails to meet the requirements of the
standard set. Laws prohibiting the sale of milk or cream
containing less than fixed percentages of butter-fat present
a familiar instance of such legislation. Cases in the state
courts upholding laws of this character are referred to in
the margin.' This court has repeatedly sustained the
validity of similar prohibitions. Schmidinger v. Chicago,
226 U. S. 578; Armour & Co. v. North Dakota, 240 U. S.
510.
It is specially urged that the statutes are unconstitutional because they do not merely define the, term icecream;but arbitrarily prohibit the sale of a large variety of
wholesome compounds theretofore included under the
name ice cream. The acts appear to us merely to prohibit
the sale of such compounds as ice cream. Such is the construction given to the act by the Supreme Court of Iowa.
Iowba v. Schlenker, 112 Iowa, 642; State v. Campbell, 64 N. H. 402;

People v.-Bowen, 182 N. Y. 1; State v. Crescent Creamery Co., 83 Minn.
284; Louisiana v. Stone, 46 La."Ann. 147; Deems v. Baltimore, 86b Md.

164; Commonwealth v. Wheeler, 205 Ma.
,Dairy Co, 190 Mo. 507; State

384; St. Louis v. Grafeman

V.Smyth, 14 R. I. 100.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus..

242 U. S.

State v. Hutchinson Ice Cream Co., 168 Iowa, 1, 15, which
is of course binding on us. We cannot assume, in the
absence of a definite and authbritative ruling, that the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania would construe the law
of that State otherwise. The conviction here under review
was for selling the "compound" as ice cream, so that we
are not called upon to determine'whether the State may
in the exercise of its police power prohibit the sale even of a
wholesome product, ifthe public welfare appear to require
such action-and if, as here, interstate commerce is not
involved. See Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 685;
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1, 15.
In view of the conclusion stated above, it is unnecessary
to consider Whether the statutes are or are not sustainable
as health measures; and upon this we express no opinion.
The judgment in each case is
Affirmed.

KANE v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 51.

Argued October 31, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

In. regulating the use of motor vehicles upon its highwAys, (Hendrick
v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610), a State may require nonresident owners
to appoint a state official as agent upon whom process may be served
in legal proceedings biought against them, and resulting from the
operation of their motor vehicles, within the State.
A registration fee, not unreasonable in amount, which is exacted by
a State from residents and nonresidents alike as a condition to the
use of its highways by motor vehicles, is not a discrimination against
the citizens of other States either (a) because the amount of the
fee is fixed for each calendar year without reference to the extent

