SIM v. EDENBORN.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

to dangerous influences, if they might be punished with a
law suit for displeasing parties by their testimony; and
even parties in interest, whether on the record or not,
might be deterred from the rightfully fearless assertion
of a claim or the rightfully fearless assertion of a defense,
if they were liable to be visited on the instant with writs
from the defeated party." Since this decision, the federal
Circuit and District Courts have consistently sustained the
privilege. Juneau Bank v. McSpedan, 5 Bissell, 64; Fed.
Cas. 7,582; Brooks v. Farwell, 4 Fed. Rep. 166; Atchison
v. Morris, 11 Fed. Rep. 582; Nichols v. Horton, 14 Fed.
Rep. 327; Wilson Sewing Mch. Co. v. Wilson, 22 Fed. Rep.
803; Small v. Montgomery, 23 Fed. Rep. 707; Kinne v.
Lant, 68 Fed. Rep. 436; Hale v. Wharton, 73 Fed. Rep.
739; Morrow v. U. H. Dudley & Co., 144 Fed. Rep. 441;
Skinner & Mounce Co. v. Waite, 155 Fed. Rep. 828; Peet
v. Fowler, 170 Fed. Rep. 618; Roschynialski v. Hale, 201
Fed. Rep. 1017.
Judgment affirmed.

SIM v. EDENBORN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 8.

Argued May 5, 1915; restored to docket for reargument April 3,
1916; reargued October 23, 191.-I)cided December 4, 1916.

Respondent induced petitioner and others to join with him as subscribers to a syndicate agreement, under which the stock of a corporation was acquired, other property purchased and added to its
capital, its stock increased and the shares distributed to the subscribers in proportion to their subscriptions. By this agreement
respondent was constituted an agent for the other subscribers with
large powers, and became their fiduciary in respect of the acquisition

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

and management of the subject-matter. By misleading representations and suppression he concealed the fact that the original shares
were largely his when tile agreement was made, and, carrying out a
purpose entertained from the beginning, surreptitiously made use
of those he owned in squaring off his subscription. Subsequently,
petitioner and other subscribers, discovering this deception and
fraud, promptly elected to rescind, gave due notice, offered to return
all stock by them received, and demanded back their money.
Held, that tender of the stock actually received, being all the subscribers
could do toward restoring the original position, was an adequate
preliminary to an action at law against the respondent to recover the
amounts paid on their subscriptions. Heckscher v. Edenborn, 203
N. Y. 210, approved.
Although on a question of commercial law or general jurisprudence the
federal courts exercise their own judgment; they nevertheless lean
toward agreement with the state courts where the question is balanced with doubt.
206 Fed. Rep. 275, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Theron G. Strong for petitioner.

Mr. Joseph W. Bailey, with whom Mr. Martin W.
Littleton and Mr. Owen N. Brown were on the briefs, for

respondent.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.

By an action at law commenced in the Supreme Court,
Kings County, New York, and subsequently removed to
the United States Circuit Court because of diverse citi-

zenship, petitioner, Sim, sought to recover from respondent the amounts paid upon subscriptions to a syndicate agreement which the latter fraudulently induced

him and his assignors to make. By stipulation, a jury
being waived, the issues were referred to a referee. The
reported facts, essential to an understanding of points

now involved, are summarized below.

SIM v. EDENBORN.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

While owning the majority stock of United States Iron
Company, respondent and others conceived a scheme to
consolidate it with certain coal properties, erect blast
furnaces, engage in smelting and manufacturing iWon,
etc. He accordingly prepared an agreement, dated
April 15, 1902, stating generally the ends in view, and invited subscriptions. This instrument designated him and
two others as "Syndicate Managers," and recited there
was an opportunity to acquire for cash the $1,000,000
capital stock of that company, together with valuable
coal, properties, and that the purpose was to raise the
essential two and a half million dollars. It further specified that "The Syndicate Managers hereunder shall have
the direction and management of the subject-matter of
the said Syndicate, and each subscriber nominates and
appoints the Syndicate Managers his agents and attorneys
irrevocable, until the termination of this agreement to
exercise all the rights of the subscribers in and to the
properties proposed to be acquired." Still other provisions
conferred upon the managers wide discretion and powers
of control. Petitioner and his assignors became subscribers while in entire ignorance of respondent's tiue
position. He represented that it was proposed to purchase only valuable and paying properties; that subscriptions were payable in dollars, and not in property; that
he had made a subscription for $500,000 payable in dollars; that the enterprise was being organized in good faith;
that all, according to their interest, had equal rights and
stood on same basis; that every man's dollar was put up
against every other man's dollar; and that there were
to be no special advantages to any one. In fact, however,
he always intended to utilize stock owned by him in payment of his subscription. The managers changed the
company's name to Sheffield Coal & Iron Company,
increased the capital to $2,500,000, and caused it to acquire additional coal properties. For cash paid to them

134

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

by syndicate members, they delivered an equal amount
of stock issued by the corporation. In settlement of his
subscription (reduced from $500,000 to $475,000) respondent surrendered the majority stock in United States
Iron Company, at a valuation of $70 per share, paid
balance in cash, and took new certificates. When he
solicited and obtained subscriptions and received payments, he knew subscribers were relying upon him faithfully to act as their agent. Subsequent to the specified
transactions petitioner. and his assignors discovered respondent's interest, and thereupon promptly elected to
rescind their subscriptions, gave due notice to the managers, offered to return and restore all stock received,
and demanded their money.
Relying on Heckscher v. Edenborn, 203 N. Y. 210, the
referee reported that Edenborn was liable for amounts
paid, with interest, and final judgment therefor was duly
entered. The Circuit Court of Appeals declined to follow
the state court, and, being of opinion that, "it is a condition of rescission that the status quo shall be restored,"
and that no such restoration had been offered, reversed
the trial court (206 Fed. Rep. 275, 277). The cause is
here upon writ of certiorari.
Heckscher v. Edenborn arose out of another subscription to the agreement now involved, and the essential
facts there and here are substantially alike. After much
consideration the Court of Appeals decided in favor of
plaintiff, Heckscher,' holding the agreement was vitiated
by fraud because Edenborn failed to reveal his interest
in the stock intended to be purchased, and further that
tender of stock actually received was all the subscriber
could do towards restoring the original position, and constituted an adequate preliminary to an action for recovery.
The opinion expresses that court's deliberate conclusion
upon the issues, -and is supported by reference to earlier
decisions of its own and other authorities.

SIM v. EDENBORN.
242 U. S.

Opinion of thE Court.

Petitioner now contends that the Court of Appeals was
correct upon principle, and mor .over, that if doubts exist
they should be resolved in favor of its opinion. On the
other hand, respondent maintains the questions involved
are of general law and that the state court reached an
unwarranted result not to be accepted here.
This court has many times considered how far federal
tribunals, when undertaking to enforce laws of the States,
should follow opinions of their courts. The authorities
were reviewed, and rule announced in Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20, 33, 34, 35, which declared that, as to
doctrines of commercial law and general jurisprudence,
the former exercise their own judgment, "But even in
such cases, for the sake of harmony and to avoid confusion,
the Federal courts will lean towards an agreement of
views with the state courts if the. question seems to them
balanced with doubt." This has been often reaffirmed.
Wilson v. Standefer, 184 U. S. 399, 412; Bienville Water
Supply Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 220; Stanly County
v. Coler, 190 U. S. 437, 444-445; Great Southern Hotel Co.
v. Jones, 193 U. S. 532, 547; Tampa Water Works Co. v.
Tampa, 199 U. S. -241, 243-244; Kuhn v. Fairmont Coal,
Co., 215 U. S. 349, 357-360, 361; Ennis Water Works v.
City of Ennis, 233 U. S. 652, 657-658; Moore-Mansfield
Co. v. Electrical Co., 234 U. S. 619, 625; Lankford v.
Platte Iron Works Co., 235 U. S. 461, 474.
The conclusions of the Court of Appeals in Heckscher's
Case are not in direct conflict with any declared views of
this, court, and some expressions in our former opinions
tend to support them. Veazie v. Williams, 8 How. 134,
158; Andrews v. Hensler, 6 Wall. 254, 258; Neblett v.
Macfarland, 92 U. S. 101, 103, 104-105.
Through misleading representations and suppression
of facts, respondent induced syndicate subscribers to
become parties to an agreement creating him their agent
to acquire and deal with certain properties-a position

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
MCKENNA, DAY, and VAN DEVANTER,

JJ., dissenting. 242 U. S.

of especial trust and confidence. His original undisclosed purpose was to obtain their money and appropriate it toward purchase of something partly owned by
himself. Having led them to intrust their funds to his
discretion, he carried out his preconceived plan, and as a
part of it caused them to receive an equivalent amount
of corporate stock. He now seeks to avoid a judgment,
because his own actions have rendered it impossible for
him to get back to the beginning point.
This was not a proceeding in equity addressed to the
court's discretion, but a demand at law upon an agent
for return of something improperly received and disposed
of. The defrauded principals tendered back everything
received by them-did all they could towards restoring
original conditions. In such circumstances it is but
just and right that any loss should fall on the unfaithful agent, not on his too-confiding principals. See Snow
v. Alley, 144 Massachusetts, 546, 551; O'Shea v. Vaughn,
201 Massachusetts, 412; Bigelow on Fraud, 430-431;
Wharton on Contracts, ยง 285.
We think, in Heckscher v. Edenborn, the Court of Appeals reached a result Well supported both by reason and
upon authority, and that the courts below should have
followed it when undertaking to determine rights depending upon the laws of New York. The action of the Circuit Court of Appeals is accordingly reversed; and the
judgment of the trial court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR.JUSTICE MCKENNA, MR.JUSTICE DAY and MR.
JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER dissent, being of opinion that

the questions involved are of general, not local, law; that
there has not been such restoration of the status quo as
is essential to a recovery at law upon a rescission, and that
upon the facts specially found by the referee the decision
of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right.

