OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

to comply therewith. The court below erred in denying
a seasonable request for a directed verdict; and its judgment must be reversed. Our recent opinions render
unnecessary any further discussion of the reasons for this
conclusion. Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Wall, 241
U. S. 87; Georgia, Florida & Alabama Railway Co. v.
Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190; Cincinnati,New Orleans
& Texas Pacific Railway Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S. 319.
Reverse and remand for further proceedings ,not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. CAPITAL TRUST COMPANY, ADMINISTRATOR OF
WARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 107.

Submitted November 15, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Such pain and suffering as are substantially contemporaneous with
death or mere incidents to it, as also the short periods of insensibility which sometimes intervene between fatal injuries and death,
afford no basis for a separate estimation or award of damages under
the Employers' Liability Act, as amended by the Act of April 5,
1910. St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648, 655.
Although an error not challenged in the State Supreme Court may
not be relied on here as a ground of reversal, it is proper for this
court to point it out in anticipation of a possible new trial.
Under the Employers' Liability Act, as amended April 5, 1910, when
the personal representative unites a claim for the injury suffered by
the decedent with a claim for losses resulting to the beneficiaries
from his death, the damages recoverable under the former claim are
limited to such as will reasonably compensate for the loss and suffering of the injured person while he lived, and it is error to permit

GREAT NORTH'N RY. CO. v. CAPITAL TRUST CO.
242 U. S.

145

Opinion of the Court.

the jury to increase them by taking account of his premature death
and of what he would have earned or accomplished in the natural
span of his life. St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v. Craft, supra.
127 Minnesota, 144; 128 Minnesota, 537, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. L. Janes and Mr. M. L. Countryman for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. Samuel A. Anderson for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
While employed by the railway company as a switchman, William M. Ward was accidentally killed, December 13, 1912; and the Administrator brought suit in a
state court under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, as
amended, for the benefit of his father and mother, seeking
to recover their pecuniary loss and also damages for the
injuries suffered by him prior to death. Some evidence
tended to show that. after being run over by one or more
cars, although wholly unconscious, the deceased continued to breathe for perhaps ten minutes. Testimony of
other witnesses supported a claim that there was no appreciable continuation of life. Judgment upon an unapportioned verdict, in favor of the Administrator, was affirmed
by the state Sup.reme Court, October, 1914. The railway
company duly excepted to the following portions of the
charge:
"Did Ward's injuries kill him instantly? If he was
killed instantly, one rule of damages applies, while if he
lived some time after he was injured, another rule of
damages would apply. There is some evidence that he
lived a few minutes after receiving his injuries; there is
other evidence that he was dead when taken out from

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

under the car. If you should find that Ward died from
his injuries without living an appreciable length of time,
then the plaintiff could only recover, if at all, what would
have been the pecuniary value of Ward's life to his father
and mother had he lived. . . . And in that connection it would be proper for you to consider his health,
his disposition to contribute to the support of his parents,
the evidence of what he customarily earned, his earning
capacity, the amount he was in the habit of giving to his
parents, his age, his condition in life, the length of time
he probably would have lived had not this accident happened, and the expectancy of the life of the father and
mother, and the reasonable expectancy of the parents in
respect to benefits, if any, from the services of their
son; .
"In case you find that Ward did not die instantly from
his injuries but that he lived some appreciable length of
time after the accident, then you would come to another
question in the case.
"Under the law of the United States it is provided that
any right of action given by the Act of Congress in reference to injuries of this kind under such circumstances,
that the right of action shall survive to the personal
representatives of the deceased for the benefit of his parents, if there is no surviving widow and children. And if
you should find from the evidence that Ward did not die
instantly from his injuries but that he lived some little
time after he was injured, then, under the law, the plaintiff would be entitled to recover damages in the same
amount that Ward, the deceased, would have been entitled to recover had he brought the action in his life time.
That is, you can award such damages as in your judgment
would be a full, fair and reasonable compeiisation for the
loss sustained by Ward, the deceased, by reason of the
And in that connection,
injuries he received. . .
it would be proper for you to consider his age, his habits

GREAT NORTH'N RY. CO. v. CAPITAL TRUST CO.
242 U. S.

147

Opinion of the Court.

of industry, his health, his ability to work, his earning
capacity, and the amount he usually earned at the time
he was injured, and the length of time he would probably
have lived had he not been injured, using your best judgment under all the circumstances in arriving at what
would be a fair compensation for his loss."
In St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v. Craft, 237 U. S.
648, 655, 658 (June 1, 1915), we held that under the Employers' Liability Act, as amended in 1910, the administrator of a fatally injured employ6 might recover the beneficiary's pecuniary loss and also for pain and suffering
endured by deceased between the moment of injury and
final dissolution. We were careful, however, to say(655) "But to avoid any misapprehension it is well to
observe that the case is close to the border line, for such
pain and suffering as are substantially contemporaneous
with death or mere incidents to it, as also the short periods
of insensibility which sometimes intervene between fatal
injuries and death, afford no basis for a separate estimation or award of damages under statutes like that which
is controlling here." And, referring to the two separate
grounds of recovery-(658) "Although originating in the
same wrongful act or neglect, the two claims are quite
distinct, no part of either being embraced in the other.
One is for the wrong to the injured person and is confined
to his personal loss and suffering before he died, while
the other is for the wrong to the beneficiaries and is confined to their pecuniary loss through his death. One
begins where the other ends, and a recovery upon both
in the same action is not a double recovery for a single
wrong but a single recovery for a double wrong."
The present record presents the very circumstances
which we declared afforded no basis for an estimation or
award of damages in addition to the beneficiary's pecuniary loss. And although apparently not challenged
in the State Supreme Court and therefore not now to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

relied on as ground for reversal (Hardingv. Illinois, 196
U. S. 78, 87, 88), in view of a possible new trial, it seems
proper to point out that the method approved by the trial
court for estimating damages where the deceased's cause
of action does survive conflicts with the rule sanctioned by
Vs in the Craft Case.
The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. BEAHAM.
ERROR TO THE KANSAS CITY COURT OF APPEALS, STATE OF
MISSOURI.
No. 118. Argued November 16, 1916.--Decided December 4, 1916.
'When a passenge claims damages from a carrier for the loss of baggage
accepted by thl carrier for transportation between States, the rights
and liabilities of the parties depend upon the Acts of Congress, the
agreement of the parties and the common-law principles accepted
and enforced by the federal courts.
In such case, the carrier is entitled to the presumption that its business
was being rightfully conducted.
Where a stipulation, limiting a carrier's liability for baggage unless its
value is stated and an extra charge paid, is printed on the face of ao
ticket as an ingredient of the ticket contract, and is, in substance,
reiterated on a baggage check, one who, purchasing the ticket, employs it at once in checking baggage, receives the check and accepts
and uses both ticket and check without objection, may be presumed
to have assented to the stipulation, although he did not read it.
As bearing on its baggage liability, an interstate carrier has a right to
put in evidence applicable tariff schedules on file with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and to have them duly considered by the
court.
In an action over lost baggage, copies of tariff schedules on file with

