OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

complainant had a right to arrest its execution and recover
as well the profits of which it had been deprived, if any.
The case, therefore, does not fall within the rules of the
cases cited by the Circuit Court of Appeals and those
cited by defendants. In other words, further infringement was in effect threatened and could be reasonably
apprehended.
We have assumed that there was infringing done and
threatened, and, of course, both assumptions are based on
the validity and novelty of the device and that the defendant company's device-that is, the device of patent
No. 942,735-is an unsubstantial variation of it. Whether
the assumption is justified is yet to be decided and, in the
first instance, should be decided by the Circuit Court of
Appeals.
Its decree dismising the case is reversed and the case is
remanded for further proceedings in accordance with this
opinion.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES AND INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD
COMPANY.
UNITED STATES, INTERSTATE COMMERCE
COMMISSION, ET AL. v. PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
Nos. 340, 341. Argued October 18, 19, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.

'rhe powers conferred on the Interstate Commerce Commission by the
Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended (Acts of February 4, 1887,
24 Stat. 379; March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 855; June 29, 1906, 34 Stat.

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
242 U. S.

209

Statement of the Case.

584; and June 18, 1910, 36 Stat. 539), do not include the power to
require carriers to provide and furnish oil tank cars-no question
of discrimination being involved.
Without attempting to define the measure of the carrier's duty to
satisfy the needs of shippers by adding in quantity or kind to its
car equipment, held, that neither by the Act of 1887 nor the amendatory Act of 1906 did Congress intend that the enforcement of such
duty might be compelled by orders of, the Interstate Commerce
Commission.
In reaching this conclusion much weight is properly attached to the
fact that it accords both with the construction placed by the Commission upon the Act of 1887 before the Act of 1906 was adopted and
also with the explanation which the Commission made to Congress
concerning the occasion and scope of the Act of 1906 when that statute was in process of enactment.
In construing the amendment of 1906, the fact that, as here involved,
it was drawn and recommended by the Commission justifies in this
case the assumption that in legal import it was not intended to exceed the Commission's recommendation.
The neglect or refusal to furnish tank cars is not a "practice" within
the meaning of § 15 of the Commerce Apt, as amended June 18, 1910.
When a carrier in its published tariffs denies any obligation to furnish
tank cars, the fact that it publishes rates for commodities so carried
may not be construed as an offer, constituting a duty, to furnish such
cars; and a finding by the Commission to the contrary is reviewable
as a conclusion of law.
Whether the order of the Commission was invalid because requiring
the Railroad Company to supply cars for movement over other lines,
or because of being non-administrative, or uncertain and indefinitenot decided.
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Hardwick Elevator Co., 226
U. S. 426, and other decisions of this court, explained and distinguished.
227 Fed. Rep. 911, affirmed.

ON petition of the Pennsylvania Paraffine Works and
the Crew-Levick Company the Interstate Commerce
Commission made the following order:
"It is ordered, That the Pennsylvania Railroad Company be, and it is hereby, notified and required to cease
and desist, on or before August 15, 1915, and thereafter to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

abstain, from refusing upon reasonable request and reasonable notice therefor to provide and furnish tank cars
to the complainants herein for interstate shipments of
petroleum products, which refusal has been found in said
report to be in violation of the provisions of the act to
regulate commerce and amendments thereto.
"It is further ordered, That said defendant be, and it is
hereby, notified and required to provide on or before
August 15, 1915, and thereafter to furnish, upon reasonable request and reasonable notice, at complainants' respective refineries, tank cars in sufficient number to transport said complainants' normal shipments in interstate
commerce.
"And it is further ordered, That this order shall continue in force for a period of not less than two years from
the date when it shall take effect."
The time of compliance was subsequently extended to
November 15, 1915. In the meantime, the railroad company brought this suit to enjoin the enforcement of the
order. A preliminary injunction was prayed and, upon a
hearing by three judges, was granted. 227 Fed. Rep. 911.
To review that action this appeal is prosecuted.
The Commission made quite elaborate findings, which,
however, we do not think it is necessary to quote in full.
it found the production of the oil companies, and the
following additional facts:
(1) That 91% of the oil produced by the Paraffine
Company was shipped in tanks, 1/2% in barrels loaded
in cars other than tank cars, and 72%in pipe lines, while
of the shipments made by the other company 86.8%
moved in tank cars, 4.7% in barrels, and 8.5% in pipe lines.
(2) For a long time the bulk of refined oil in the United
States has been shipped in tank.cars and at present 91%
is so transported. The railroad has been using tank cars
for twenty-five years. The capacity of the cars is found,
and they are so constructed that they may be rapidly

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. 211
242 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

loaded at the refineries, and jobbers and dealers in refined
oil throughout the country have the proper and necessary
facilities for unloading the cars by gravity at their various
stations.
(3) The only other method of transporting oil is in
barrels or similar containers, the cost of which is from 3Y2
to 334 cents a gallon above the cost of transportation in
tank cars, and this makes such method of transportation
practically prohibitive, and the refusal of the railroad to
furnish an adequate supply of tank cars would tend to
drive out of business refiners who are unable to supply
themselves with enough cars to move their own products;
and witnesses for the railroad admitted that tank cars are
an economic necessity for the transportation of refined
products.
(4) In 1887 the railroad acquired 1308 tank cars, some
of which have since been sold to independent refiners,
but it owned at the time of the hearing 499 cars, of which
482 are furnished to shippers of oil located on its lines.
(5) At the time of the hearing the Paraffine Company
owned 54 tank cars and the Crew-Levick Company 57;
and it was testified that these companies for five or six
years have daily made inquiry for the delivery of cars to
them and that formal orders for cars have been constantly
on file in the railroad's offices.
(6) On November 11, 1912, shortly before the filing of
the complaints before the Commission, complainants
served notice upon the railroad company, requesting it to
furnish a sufficient number of tank cars to ship respectively 450,000 gallons of oil per month from the .Paraffine
Company's refinery at Titusville and 600,000 gallons per
month from 'the Glade (Crew-Levick Co.) Oil Works at
Warren.
To the request of complainants, the railroad company
replied:
"We beg to say that the ra lroad company is not pre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the United States.

242 U. S.

pared to increase its present tank-car equipment but is
prepared to transport the commodities in question when
properly contained in barrels or other similar containers
at rates that are fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory."
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Robert Szold was
on the brief, for the United States:
The railroad is under a legal duty to furnish oil tank
cars upon reasonable request.
The common law requires the common carric r to furnish
reasonably adequate facilities for the transportation of the
class of goods which it professes to carry. Covington StockYards Co. v. Keith; 139 U. S. 128, 133; Hutchinson on
Carriers, 3d ed., § 495; Beale and Wyman, Railroad Rate
Regulation, 2d ed., § 930.
The obligation is not simply to devote the specific property on hand to the public use, but to render adequate
transportation service. Wyman on Public Service Corporations, §§ 253, 260, 797; The Southwark, 191 U. S. 1, 9.
See also Lukrawka v. Spring Valley Water Co., 169 California, 318, 329-332; Haugen v. Albina Light & Water
Co., 21 Oregon, 411; Columbus v. Mercantile Trust Co.,
218 U. S. 645, 659; Leavell v. Western Union Telegraph
Co., 116 N. Car. 211, 221; United States Telephone Co.
v. Central Union Telephone Co., 202 Fed. Rep. 66.
Additional equipment must be provided if necessary to
accommodate reasonable public demands. Branch v.
Wilmington &c. R. R. Co., 77 N. Car. 347, 350; Cobb v.
Illinois Central R. R. Co., 38 Iowa, 601, 623; Illinois
Central R. R. Co. v. River & Coal Go., 150 Kentucky, 489,
491, 493; Yazoo & Miss. Valley R. R. Co. v. Blum Co.,
88 Mississippi, 180, 191, 192; Ocean Steamship Co. v.
Savannah Supply Co., 131 Georgia, 831; People v. St.
Louis &c. Railroad Co., 176 Illinois, 512.
Special facilities such as tank cars must be provided
even though prev-iously the railroad has not held itself

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. 213
242 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

out so to do. Baker v. Boston & Maine R. R. Co., 74
N. H. 100, 110; Kansas Pacific Ry. v. Nichols, 9 Kansas,
235; State v. Railway Co., 47 Ohio St. 130, 139; Railroad
Co. v. Pratt, 22 Wall. 123; Covington Stock Yards Co. v.
Keith, supra; Loraine v. Pittsburg &c. R. R. Co., 205 Pa.
St. 132; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Geraty, 166 Fed.
Rep. 10; Mathis v. Southern Ry., 65 S. Car. 271; Cincinnati &c. Ry. Co. v. Fairbanks & Co., 90 Fed. Rep. 467.
This railroad has held itself out specifically to carry oil
in tank cars. In its answer before the Commission it
alleged that in the schedules of rates filed for carrying
articles in tank cars it stated that no obligation was assumed to furnish tank cars. But the fact of such disclaimer does not appear from the record in the cases at
bar. The obligation seems to be a matter of law, which
follows as a necessary incident from the fact of the holding
out and the public nature of the carrying business. See
Lloyd v. Haugh, 223 Pa. St. 148, 154. The Commission's
finding of fact that the railroad has held itself out to carry
oil in bulk and in tank cars is not reviewable. United
States v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 314, 320.
The duty is clearly imposed by the Hepburn Act of
June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, § 1.
Whatever be the duty at common law, here is an obligation of the statute to provide the required cars-not merely
furnish such cars as chance to be on hand.
Recent decisions in this court recognize the obligation
imposed. The comprehensive character of the amendment was indicated in Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v. Hardwick
Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426. The case has been followed
many times: Yazoo &c. R. R. Co. v. Greenwood Grocery
Co., 227 U. S. 1; St. Louis &c. Ry. Co. v. Edwards, 227
U. S. 265; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Harris,234 U. S. 412,
418; Menasha Co. v. Chicago & Northwestern Ry., 241
U. S. 55, 58; Ellis v. Interstate Com. Comm., 237 U. S. 434.
The evil to be remedied by the amendment of 1906

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the United States.

242 U. S.

was in part the public injury due to insufficiency of the
railroad's supply of tank and refrigerator cars. Scofield v.
Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co., 2 I. C. C. 90, 117 (1888); In re
Transportation of, Fruit, 10 I. C. C. 360, 373 (1904);
Special Message by the President, of May 4, 1906; Report
of the Commissioner of Corporations on the Transportation of Petroleum, 1906, House Doc. 812, 59th Cong.,
1st sess.; see Sen. Doc. 428, id., Cong. Rec., vol. 40, pt. 7,
p. 6358; Cong. Rec., 59th Cong., 1st sess., vol. 40, pt. 2,
p. 1958.
The legislative history of the amendment of 1906 shows
that it was designed to meet this evil. Cong. Rec., 59th
Cong., 1st sess.,'vol. 40, pt. 2, pp. 1764, 1765, 2005, 2109,
2155; id., pt. 3, pp. 2081, 2103, 2104, 2109, 2155, 2241,
2260; id., pt. 7, pp. 6374-6375, 6376, 6438, 6440, 6570.
The Commission has power to order the carrier to comply with a reasonable request to furnish oil tank cars.
In support of the Commission's power, the Government
relies particularly upon §§ 1, 12, and 15, as amended.
Section 12 imposes upon the Commission the authority
and duty "to execite and enforce the provisions of this
act." Act of March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 858. One
of the provisions which it is thus made the duty of the
Commission to enforce is § 1, requiring railroads to furnish cars. The very purpose of imposing upon the carrier
in 1906 the duty to furnish cars was to give the Commission jurisdiction to enforce that duty. This seems
clear from a simple reading of the statute, as also from
the debates, supra.
It is settled that a governing principle in the construction of the Commission's powers under the amendment
of 1906 is the recognized purpose of the amendment to
grant speedy and efficacious remedies for the enforcement
of the duties imposed. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v.
Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S.481, 498, 499.
The amendment of 1910 serves to remove all doubt.

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
242 U. S.

215

Argument for the United States.

The order in question deals with a regulation or practice
of the railroad in furnishing the facilities of transportation,
and § 15 in explicit terms authorizes the Commission by
order to prescribe regulations or practices of that character.
Rates and rebating had already been dealt with; the object of this amendment was to insure proper service. See
the report of the Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce which, on April 1, 1910, recommended the
bill to amend the Interstate Commerce Act, H. R. 17536,
House Report No. 923, 61st Cong., 2d sess.; Cong. Rec.,
61st Cong., 2d sess., vol. 45, pt. 5, p. 4571; id., pt. 6,
p. 5852; Conference Report No. 1588 on House Bill 17536,
Sen. Doc. No. 623; Cong. Rec., vol. 45, pt. 8, pp. 8134
et seq.
That the power conferred upon the Commission was
intended to be most comprehensive is shown by the terms
of § 15. The words are "any individual or joint classifications, regulations, or practices whatsoever." A regulation is a written rule governing a method of doing business. A practice clearly is not limited to such methods
as have become habits. It includes any manner of performing the duties imposed by the act.
Consideration of the amendment to § 1 in the Act of
1910 also shows the all-embracing character of the practices over which the control of the Commission was extended. Section 1, as appears from the committee report
recommending the legislation of 1910, is to be read in
connection with § 15.
The railroad company's refusal was in writing and laid
down a permanent rule. It was a regulation or practice
as found by the Commission-a finding of fact which not
being entirely unsupported by evidence, must be taken
as conclusive. All the members of the court below agreed
that the order dealt with a practice-a view fully sustained
by Atchison Railway Co. v. United States, 232 U. S. 199;
Loomis v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 240 U. S. 43, 50; New

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the United States.

242 U. S.

York Shippers' Ass'n v. New York Central &c. R. R. Co.,
30 I. C. C. 437; Protection of Potato Shipments in Winter,
26 I. C. C. 681, 685; National Lumber Dealers' Ass'n v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co., 14 I. C. C. 154; Millers'
Club v. Railroad Co., 26 I. C. C. 245; Farmers Co-op.
Ass'n v. Railroad Co., 34 I. C. C. 60; Montgomery v.
C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 228 Fed. Rep. 616; Newmark Grain
Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 30 I. C. C. 431.
The order was within the jurisdiction of the Commission
even if not strictly a practice. Section 12 is here relied
on and the concluding paragraph of § 15. The tendency
of this court has been to uphold the broad powers granted.
Pipe Line Cases, 234 U. S. 548. The policy of the act as
a whole relies on expert and uniform administrative control rather than judicial orders.
The question whether the duty to provide and furnish
cars is violated is administrative, and uniform control by
the Commission is requisite. Loomis v. Lehigh Valley
R. R. Co., supra; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352,
419, 420; Mo. & Ill. Coal Co. v. Ill. Central R. R. Co., 22
I. C. C. 39; St. Lodis &c. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 217 U. S.
136, 150.
Control by the Commission is imperatively required if
the purpose of the act to prevent discrimination is to be
effectuated. Balto. & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Pitcairn Coal Co.,
supra; Interstate Com. Comm. v. Ill. Central R. R. Co.,
215 U. S. 452; Texas & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene Oil Co.,
204 U. S. 426.
The order involves the exercise of no new or unusual
power by the Commission.
The order is not subject to the objection that it compels
the use of cars beyond the line of the railroad. Mich.
Central R. R. Co. v. Mich. R. R. Comm., 236 U. S. 615,
631, 632; Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, 236 U. S.
351.
The order is not void because indefinite or uncertain.

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA It. R. CO. 217
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It follows the statute; seems as definite as that upheld in
Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, supra, (see also Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. Interstate Com. Ccmm., 221 U. S.
612, 621, 622); and is as specific as it could reasonably be.
The objection here is premature, the railroad having made
no effort to comply.
The order does not require an unlawful interference
with the rights of owners of private cars. It affords sufficient time for compliance.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. Charles D. Chamberlin and Mr. Datid Wallerstein
filed a brief for the Crew-Levick Company.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Thomas Patterson, with
whom Mr. Henry Wolf Bikl6 and Mr. F. D. McKenney
were on the brief, for the Pennsylvania Railroad Company.
By leave of court, Mr. Charles W. Atwater and Mr.
Samuel B. Clarke filed a brief in behalf of the Sterling Salt
Company, as amici curio.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The question in the case is, Has the Commission the
jurisdiction exercised by the order? It is not denied that
the Commission has power over the general equipment
of a carrier, but it is denied that it has power to require
"vehicles of a special type having no reference to the safety
of transportation," and to this distinction the argument
of counsel for the railroad company, is addressed.
The judgment of the District Court had somewhat
broader basis. The court said; "The act to regulate corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

merce does not confer upon the Interstate Commerce
Commission all power over cars and other instrumentalities of shipment." And that, aside from special enactments, "Federal legislation regulating commerce, in so
far at least as it is contained in the act of 1887 and its
amendments, has thus far left carriers free to exercise
their own judgment in the purchase, construction and
equipment of their roads and in the selection of their
rolling stock." Indicating that the law conferred upon
the Commission the power to prevent and redress unfair
practices and discriminations, the court further said:
"We find nothing in the law which confers upon the Commission power to compel a carrier to acquire facilities it
does not possess or to acquire better facilities than those
it possesses, not with the object of preventing discrimination and preferences, but in order that the shipper may
have, larger, better, and perhaps more economical
facilities."
And coming to consider the question of power conferred
by the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887 as amended in
1906, the court decided that the amendment "added
nothing to the original duty of the carrier as prescribed
by the original act and as interpreted by the Commission,
and vested in the Commission no increase of power over
cars as instrumentalities of shipment."
To this proposition the United States and the Commission oppose the contentions that "it is the duty of every
interstate carrier to provide and furnish upon reasonable
request such cars as are reasonably necessary for handling
the normal traffic of which it is a common carrier," and
that the Commission is given jurisdiction to enforce the

duty.
The power of the Commission has been given precedence and dominance in the argument, the extent of the
duty of carriers coming in secondarily though important
to be considered. In other words the main question pre-

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. 219
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sented is, whatever be the duty of carriers as to the equipment they must have or furnish, whether the Interstate
Commerce Commission is the tribunal to enforce the
duty.
A comparison -of the act as passed in 1887 with the
amendment of 1906 becomes necessary and a consideration of the rulings under the former as an interpreter of
the latter.
The Act of 1887 (24 Stat. 379) provided that"The term 'railroad' as used in this act shall include all
bridges and ferries used or operated in connection with
any railroad, and also all the road in use by any corporation operating a railroad, whether owned or operated
under a contract, agreement, or lease; and the term 'transportation' shall include all instrumentalities of shipment
or carriage."
The word "transportation" is the crucial word, and its
definition in the amendment of 1906 is as follows:
" . ...
and the term 'transportation' shall include
cars and other vehicles and' all instrumentalities and facilities of shipment or carriage, irrespective of ownership
or of any contract, express or implied, for the use thereof
and all services in connection with the receipt, delivery,
elevation, and transfer in transit, ventilation, refrigeration or icing, storage, and handling of property transported; and it shall be the duty of every carrier subject
to the provisions of this Act to provide and furnish such
transportation upon reasonable request therefor

"

And this, it is contended, must be read in connection with
§ 12, as amended March 2, 1889, as follows:
" . . and the Commission is hereby authorized
and required to execute and enforce the provisions of this
act." 25 Stat. 855, 858.
Section 1 of the Act of 1887 came before the Commission
for consideration, and the duty thereunder of carriers to
furnish tank cars for the transportation of petroleum, iu

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Scofield v. Lake Shore & Michigan Southern Railway Co.,
2 I. C. C. 90. The opinion is too long to review. It is
enough to say of it that it considered the conditions of
the oil trade, the different methods of shipping oil in
barrels and in tank cars, and stated that the latter method
had become established, though very few of the railroads
of the country owned tank cars; compared the cost and
advantages of the methods, and from this declared that
it was obvious that where the carriers did not furnish tank
cars one shipper could not compete in all respects upon
equal terms with another shipper who furnished tank cars
for the transportation of his oil, unless he also furnished
tanks; and, following a former decision, declared that it
was properly the business of the carrier to supply the
rolling stock for the freight he offers or proposes to carry,
and that if the diversities of the traffic are such that this
is "not always practicable, and consignors are allowed to
supply it themselves, the carrier must not allow his own
deficiencies in this particular to be made the means of
putting at an unreasonable disadvantage those who make
use in the same traffic of the facilities he supplies." To
prevent such disadvantages or preferences the Commission
decided it had power; to enforce the duty of supplying
cars it decided it had not the power.
Section 3 of the act was asserted against the conclusion,
and the Commission replied that that section applied only
to facilities between connecting lines and did not embrace
car equipment for the origination of freight; and, referring
to § 1, it was said:
"The term 'instrumentalities of shipment or carriage,'
as found in the first section of the statute, of course includes cars, but they are such cars as are provided by the
carrier or used by it in interstate commerce, and the
statute nowhere clothes the Commission with power to
determine what kind of cars the carrier should use for this
purpose and require the carrier to place upon its line for

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
242 U. S.

221

Opinion of the Court.

use in this business such kind and number of cars as the,
Commission may decide will constitute a proper and
necessary equipment of car service. The duty of every
such carrier is none the less obligatory at common law, and
by its charter to furnish an adequate and proper car equipment for all the business of this character it undertakes and
advertises in its tariffs it will do. The statute does not
undertake to clothe the Interstate Commerce Commission
with the power by summary proceeding of compelling a
railroad company to perform all its common-law duties,
but leaves many of these to be enforced in the courts by
suits for damages and by other proceedings.
"The power, if it should be held to exist at all, on the
part of the Interstate Commerce Commission to require a
carrier to furnish tank cars when that carrier is furnishing
none whatever in its business, would apply
equally to
sleeping cars, parlor cars, fruit cars, refrigerator cars, and
all manner of cars as occasion might require, and would be
limited only by the necessities of interstate commerce and
the discretion of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
A power so extraordinary and so vital, reached by construction, could not justly rest upon any less foundation
than that of direct expression or necessary implication, and
we find neither of these in the statute."
And it was declared that the law-making power had
not itself undertaken the responsibility or clothed the
Commission with the responsibility of directing a carrier
to supply itself with any particular kind of equipment or
cars, or, in fact, any equipment or cars at all for the transportation of freight over its line. It will be observed,
therefore, that all of the elements that entered into the
problem of the power of the Commission and the reasons
which seemed to impel its exercise were considered.
There was a repetition of the elements and decision In
re Transportation,etc., of Fruit, 10 I. C. C. 360, 373 (1904).
It was there said that the Commission was of opinion

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

that it was the duty of railroad companies to furnish refrigerator cars for the transportation of fruit; that at one
time carriers might have declined to provide this special
kind of equipment but that the trade had so grown that
the carriers "might as well decline to provide stock cars
for the transportation of live stock as refrigerator cars for
the carriage of perishable commodities." It was, however,
added, "But this duty does not spring from the Act to
regulate commerce, nor has this Commission any jurisdiction of that matter. It arises out of the common-law
liability of the defendant- railway companies as common
carriers, and redress for failure to fulfill it must be sought
in the courts."
Certain abuses were pointed out in that case and the
tendency of the ownership of cars by private car lines to
monopoly, and as a consequence it was urged upon the
Commission that carriers should not be permitted to make
exclusive contracts with private car lines like those then
under consideration but should be compelled to provide
their own equipment. The Commission replied, at page
377: "The facts before us call for no expression of opinion
on that subject, and none is attempted."
This, then, was the view of the Interstate Commerce
Commission of the duty of carriers and of its power over
them; that is, that it was the duty of carriers to provide
and furnish equipment for transportation of commodities
and that this duty might expand with time and conditions, the special car becoming the common car, and the
shipper's right to demand it receiving the sanction of law.
But the Commission decided it was the sanction of the
common law, not of the statute, and that the remedy was
in the courts, -not in the Commission. With this view we
start as the first element of our decision.
But a change in the statute and remedy is asserted, a
change, it is further asserted, consequent upon a demand
for a greater administrative power and remedy. To sus-

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
242 U. S.

223

Opinion of the Court.

tain the assertions the reports of the Commission are adduced, the legislation it recommended and the comments
of the legislators.
It is especially to'be noted that the amendment of 1906
is in the exact language of the recommendation of the
Commission, as far as concerns that part which defines
"railroad" and '"transportation."
The Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce had
instituted an extended inquiry and members of the Commission appeared before the special committee which had
been appointed and presented a bill which the commissioners said embodied their recommendations and which
the Commission subsequently made part of its nineteenth
annual report. Significant explanations accompanied the
bill. It was stated: "The form of the proposed measure,
as will appear upon inspection, is an amendment of certain
sections of the present statute. . . . Aside from the
main question-the grant of power to the Commission,
after hearing, to fix the future rate--several other amendments are proposed with the view of improving the
law as a remedial measure, and these amendments will
now be referred to under appropriate headings," one
.of which was as follows:
"Enlargement of Jurisdiction.
"It will be seen that the changes proposed in the first
section are designed (a) to somewhat increase the jurisdiction of the law as to the carriers subject to its provisions
and (b) to bring within the scope of the law certain charges
and practices which are not now subject to regulation or
respecting which there is dispute as to the power of the
Commission. The first purpose is accomplished by leaving
out of the first paragraph the phrase 'under a common
control, management, or arrangement,' in order to reach
certain classes of carriers which are now exempt from the
obligations and requirements of the act. The second pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

pose is sought to be accomplished by enlarging the definition of the term
so as to include the
charges for various services, such as refrigeration and the
like, which are now claimed to be beyond our authority.
The obligation to furnish and provide the services here
referred to is also imposed, which is likewise a point now
in dispute. No other changes are proposed in the first
five sections of the act, which are commonly spoken of
as containing its principa. or substantive provisions.
In other words, the only amendment suggested in this
regard is an enlargement of jurisdiction. In this connection, and as illustrative of the matters here referred to,
the subject of refrigeration charges may be properly considered."
Then follows a consideration of refrigeration charges,
the dispute that existed as to whether the shipper or the
carrier should bear the expense of refrigeration, and the
controversy over the jurisdiction of the Commission. It
was said that "the Congress ought to make that service,
by express provision in the law, a part of the transportation itself. We do not at this time recommend that carriers should be prohibited from using private cars or from
employing the owners of such cars to perform the icing
service if they find that course to their advantage, but we
do recommend that these charges should be put on the
same basis as all other freight charges. They should be
published and maintained the same as the transportation
charge, and be subject to the same supervision and control."
Under the heading "Terminal Roads, Elevator Charges,
and Private Cars," the following was said:
"It has been suggested that the Congress should prohibit railways from employing any agency or using any
facility in the transportation of property which is furnished by the owner of the property. We should hesitate
to recommend at this time so drastic a measure as that.
.'transportation,'

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. 225
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Assuming that such a law would be a constitutional exercise of authority, it would seriously interfere with property
rights which have grown up under the present system.
Moreover, there are many instances in which the service
can be rendered or the facility furnished more advantageously both to the shipper and railway and without
injury to the public if provided by the shipper himself."
After commenting on the amendment to § 16 and the
added § 16a, the Commission explained that"It will thus be seen that the substantial amendments
proposed are few in number and easily understood, the
remaining changes being merely such as are needful to
harmonize other parts of the act with the main amendments. . . . In brief, the proposed measure amends
certain sections of the act to regulate commerce and is
confined to such recommendations as are deemed necessary to effect its intended purpose, and thereby furnish
adequate protection against excessive and discriminating
charges."
It will be observed that there is not one word in the
report that indicates that there was a necessity or desire
for the power exercised in the order under review. Indeed,
there was directly expressed an approval of private cars,
and the opinion declared that they were a facility which
could be furnished more advantageously both to the
shipper and the railroad, without injury to the public, if
provided by the shipper himself, and the recommendation
was that they be brought under the jurisdiction of the
Commission and thereby prevent 'oppressive and discriminatory practices; the principle being, to borrow from
another, that all services incident to transportation,
Whether primary (carrying the goods) or accessorial (caring for the goods in transit whenever such care calls for
special facilities or special equipment), should be subject
to the same supervision and regulation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

But is there anything in the words of the amendment
which exhibits on the part of Congress a larger knowledge
of conditions than the Commission had, and that Congress, in a broader comprehension and judgment of the
conditions and their remedy, gave the Commission a
greater jurisdiction than that which in any way occurred
to it was necessary?
The act as it was enacted in 1887 defined the term railroad and the term transportation, the latter as follows:
"And the term 'transportation' shall include all instrumentalities of shipment or carriage." The definition was
very comprehensive, and needed not the mobilization of
its denotation; but this subsequently was attempted.
Words, indeed, were multiplied-was meaning changed?
In 1906 the term "transportation" was defined to "include cars and other vehicles and all instrumentalities and
facilities of shipment or carriage. ...
" The words
are not much less general than the words of the Act of
1887. There is no advance made by them or enlargement
of meaning. There was simply a useless tautology. But
granting it was not and that Congress deemed a special
declaration of things to be necessary, such declaration did
not alter the relation of the companies to them. The duty
which attached to "instrumentalities" of the Act of 1887
attached to the things covered by its comprehensive
generality-to the things declared in the amendment of
1906, that is, to "cars," "vehicles," "facilities."
And
this duty under the Act of 1887, we have seen, had, in the
opinion of the Commission, the sanction only of the
common law. Under the amendment the most that can
be said is that the duty is particularized. Its sanction is
not enlarged.
But other words occur which, it is contended, have such
effect. These words are: "And it shall be the duty of
every carrier . . . to provide and furnish such transportation upon reasonable request therefor,
.
.

UNITFI
242 U. S.

STATES. v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. 227
Opinion of the Court.

This however is but the expression of a necessary implication. It was useless to declare that whatever a carrier must do, he must do "upon reasonable request." The
duty having been imposed, it necessarily could be demanded. But the expression of the right, if it needed
expression, adds nothing of indication to the previous
words of the tribunal by which the demand was to be enforced.
But it is said the duty having explicit declaration the
power to enforce it was found in § 12 as amended March 2,
1889, as follows: "And the Commission is hereby authorized and required to execute and enforce the provisions
of this act." 25 Stat. 855, 858.
But this casts us back to our general considerations to
which we may only add that there-was no question of the
duty of carriers either under the Act of 1887 or under the
amendment of 1906. It was their duty under both to
furnish the instrumentalities of transportation. The
question is whether under the latter, as under the former,
jurisdiction to enforce the duty was at common law in
the courts or under the statute and in the Commission;
and we have seen that it was the view of the Commission
that the remedy was in the courts and that the amendment
of 1906 was not intended to and did not change the
remedy. In other words, that Congress in effect accepted
the explanation of the Commission and approved its decisions. We repeat, the amendment of 1906 was drawn
by and recommended by the Commission, and it may
be assumed was not intended to have nor given larger
import in the law than it had in the recommendation.
United States v. Louis. & Nash. R. R., 236 U. S. 318,
333 et seq.
There was amendment in 1910, not of § 1 in any particula'r relevant to our discussion, but of §§ 13 and 15.
It was said by the committee which reported them for
consideration that under § 15 as it then stood the author.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

ity of the Commission to enter an order was "confined to
the subject-matter of rates for transportation and regulations or practices 'affecting such rates' and the establishment of through routes where 'no reasonable or satisfactory through route exists."' And the committee added
that as recommended to be amended § 15 "will have its
scope largely increased and the jurisdiction of the Commission will be much enlarged;" and that by the amendment
the Commission is given jurisdiction to enter orders not
only regarding rates but regarding classifications, regulations, or practices, whether they affect rates or not, and
make orders requiring conformity thereto.
"Practices" were not otherwise or precisely defined
either in the report or in the amendment recommended
and as finally passed. Regarding'only its broad generality
anything may be asserted of it; regarding its context and
the conditions which existed an immediate limitation of
it is indicated, made necessary, as we shall presently show.
Section 15 provides that whenever after full hearing as
provided by § 13 the Commission should be of opinion
that any individual or joint rates collected by a common
carrier or "that any individual or joint classifications,
regulations, or practices whatsoever of such carrier or carriers subject to the provisions" of the act are "unjust or
unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory, or unduly preferential or prejudicial or otherwise in violation of any.
of the provisions of" the act, the Commission is authorized
and empowered to determine and prescribe what shall be
the just and reasonable rate or rates and "what individual
or joint classification, regulation, or practice is just, fair,
and reasonable," and make an order that the carrier shall
cease and desist from the charging of excessive rates and
shall adopt the classification and conform to and observe
the regulation or practice prescribed; the order to continue
such time not exceeding two years as shall be Prescribed
Jby the Commission.

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. 229
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Applying the section, it is contended that the neglect
to provide or certainly. the refusal to furnish tank cars
is a "practice" and became especially so by the reply
made by the railroad to the request to furnish them.
Let us test the contention and see where it takes us.
The request was for a special facility, a combination of
package and car, and the question then is whether the
neglect to provide it or to furnish it was a "practice"
within the meaning of § 15. The far-reaching effect of
an affirmative answer is instantly apparent, and there
must be hesitation to declare it from the use of so inapt
a word as "practice." Following a well known rule of
construction, we must rather suppose its association was
intended to confine it to acts or conduct having the same
purpose as its associates. And there were many such acts
for which the word could provide-practices which confused the relation of shippers and carriers, burdened
transportation, favored the large shipper and oppressed
the small one. These have illustrations in decisions of
the Commission. And this was purpose enough, remedied
all that was deemed evil in privately owned cars of any
type. Beyond that it was not necessary to go; beyond
that there were serious impediments to going; and we
cannot but believe that if beyond that it was intended to
go there would have been explicit declaration of the intent,
with such provision as to notice and time and preparation
as its consequences would demand-not ambushed in
obscurity and suddenly disclosed by construction to turn
accepted custom into delinquency, a construction that
could be disputed and was disputed.
Three commissioners out of seven dissented,
they declaring that if the act conferred power upon the Commission to order a carrier to enlarge its complement of cars
it would follow that the Commission had also the power
to order enlargement of terminal facilities, increase in the
number of locomotives, and extension of tracks or branches.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

In fact, it was said that no facility of transportation would
be exempt. The purpose of the provision reviewed was
declared to be the regulation of facilities possessed by
the carrier, that there should be no unjust discrimination,
and. the plain intent to be that the shipper should not be
required to deal with any other than the carrier. And
this, as far as we can glean from the extensive congressional literature, was the end sought. In other words, it
was on account of the abuses of the private car system,
not of its uses, that legislation was urged.
There was some sentiment outside of the Commission
for the abolition of the private car system, but abolition
was not attempted. It would have been a short cut to
the solution of the problems and could easily have been
accomplished by requiring the railroads to furnish all of
the equipment necessary for taking care of all kinds of
traffic. But neither the Government nor the Commission
contends for such an extreme, and, to forestall the charge
that the order has such tendency, each represents that the
duty of the carrier to furnish special equipment is not absolute-but relative to the conditions of trade and the business of the shipper. This weakens the principle upon which
the duty is based. If there be a duty, it would seem necessarily to be universal. And such contention is growing.
A friend of the court appears in the form of a Salt Company and presents an argument in support of the order
of the Commission and asserts the right to a special equipment for the transportation of salt in bulk.
Little more need be said. Private cars came into existence as conveniences or necessities to particular businesses, developing by degrees and differentliating according to conditions. It was said in argument that there are
different kinds of tank cars for different oils and liquids,
and there are cars for live stock, fruit, live poultry, milk,
and, as we have seen, salt in bulk. What others there are
neither the record nor the argument has given us informa-

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. 231
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, nor the extent of their specialization. However, the
information is not needed. The facts of the present case
illustrate the condition of the carriers of the country.
Describing it, the Commission says:
"The bulk of the movement of refined oil is in tank cars
owned by the shippers. In 1887 the Pennsylvania Railroad acquired 1,308 tank cars, some of which have subsequently been sold to independent refineries. Defendant
now owns 499 tank cars, all that remain of those purchased
in 1887 and 482 of which are furnished to shippers of oil
located on its lines. The other railroads east of the
Mississippi River own, in the aggregate, only 303 tank.
cars. The privately owned tank cars east of the Mississippi aggregate about 27,700, and the total number of
tank cars owned in the United States was given as approximately 40,000."
This, then, was the situation of the railroad, not dissimilar to that of other railroads, not therefore created in
deliberate fault but in accommodation to conditions useful
to shippers, advantageous to the railroad, beneficial to the
public, as the Commission had declared; and yet a change
is suddenly required. The burden of the requirement we
shall presently notice.
Of course, if there is a duty upon a carrier to furnish
tank or other special cars upon request, its enforcement
cannot be arrested by the burden it imposes; but here,
again the thought obtrudes, which we have already expressed-it may be to tiresome extent-that if Congress
had intended such consequence with all that it implies of
expense, directly and indirectly, it would not have left
its intention to be evolved from obscure language but
would have put it in explicit declaration and with notice
and time for accommodation to it.
It is to be remembered that the tank car is both package
and car, must have special mechanical means of loading
and unloading. May these, too, be ordered? Are they

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

not a "manner and method of presenting, marking, packing, and delivering property for transportation," to use
the language of § 1, as amended?
It is difficult to particularize all that the ruling of the
Commission implies of power. What of omission or commission in the carrier's relation to the public may not be
said to be a practice or practices in the broad sense attempted to be given to those words? A railroad's powers
are its duties, bearing, of course, obligations; and all of
them by the asserted construction are swept under the
jurisdiction of the Commission-so swept by a single
word, not of itself apposite, and determined besides, by its
association, against the contention. This was apparent
to the dissenting commissioners and repelled their concurrence. Well might they have recoiled from going to
such extreme upon doubtful implication and have been
impelled to declare as they did declare that if such power
was given it logically and necessarily extended to every
facility of transportation.
As to whether this is desirable, we express no opinion,
and we only mean now to say that it was not expressed as
desirable in the statutes which we have considered, nor
was there a word or a line from the Interstate Commerce
Commission, so far as the record shows or intimates, of
recommendation of such result. Indeed, there is intimation that such result would be radical and, as said by the
railroad company, "the Safety Appliance Acts indicate
that when Congress contemplates the imposition of obligations with respect to the equipment of carriers, it covers
the subject by careful specific rules." And we may further
say with the company that "it is pertinent to inquire why
committees of Congress should consider, as they continue
to do from time to time, the wisdom of devolving on carriers the duty to furnish steel coaches for passenger traffic,
if already the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce
are broad enough to cover matters of this kind." And

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. 233
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

there is strength in the observation of the railroad company that if the argument based upon the word "practice" or "practices" were sound "it could be contended
with equal reason that every detail of railroad operation
is a practice within the meaning of. the Act, why should
the Commission ask that it be empowered to require the
use of the block signal system? (Report of 1913, page 82.)
Why should the Commission make this request if, because
of its jurisdiction with respect to practices, it is already
endowed with power to regulate the details of operation of
carriers?"
The United States and the Commission insist that they
have authority of cases for their two fundamental propositions, to-wit: (1) That it is the duty of the railroad to
furnish equipment for the transportation of products; and
(2) That the Commission has the jurisdiction to enforce
that duty.
The authorities upon the first proposition we are not
concerned to review. The duty, as far as this question is
concerned, may be admitted-certainly admitted in its
general sense. But we need not pause to distinguish its
application in the cases to special equipment as distinguished from common equipment, or how much the decisions were based upon the belief of the shipper, justified or
encouraged by the railroads, that the equipment required
would be furnished.
With the second proposition we are concerned, and a
consideration of the cases becomes necessary as they are
cases in this court and are cited to sustain the power of
the Commission. They are as follows: Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Hardwick Elevator Co., 226
U. S. 426; Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 237
U. S. 434; Yazoo, &c. R. R. Co. v. Greenwood Grocery Co.,
227 U. S. 1; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Harris,
234 U. S. 412; Menasha PaperCo. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry.
Co., 241 U. S. 55.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

The Hardwick Elevator Case passed upon a law of Minnesota, known as the Minnesota Reciprocal Demurrage
Law, which made it the duty of a railroad company on
demand from a shipper to furnish cars for transportation
at terminal points within 48 hours and at intermediate
points within 72 hours after such demand, Sundays and
legal holidays excepted. A penalty was imposed for each
day's delay. This court held that by § 1 of the Hepburn
Act Congress had legislated concerning the delivery of cars
in interstate commerce by carriers subject to the act.
This was based upon the definitions of § 1 and the provisions of §§ 8 and 9. The questions in the case were not
those in the present case. The kinds of equipment were
not involved nor the questions dependent upon them.
The only question was as to whether Congress had entered
the field of regulation.
In Yazoo &c. R. R. Co. v. Greenwood Grocery Company
there was also involved a statute which penalized delays
in delivering cars. It was held to be within the decision
of the Hardwick Elevator Case, as it undoubtedly was.
In the Harris Case, the Carmack Amendment was decided as not excluding a state statute allowing an attorney's fee in certain actions based on claims for small
amounts against railway companies. It has no relevancy
to the present case.
The Ellis Case grew out of a right asserted by the Interstate Commerce Commission to inquire whether Armour
& Company, shipping packing house products in commerce among the States, was controlling the Armour Car
Lines and using them as a device to obtain concessions
from the published rates for transportation. A series of
questions were put to a witness in regard thereto which
he refused to answer, and proceedings to compel his
testimony were instituted. A question of the power of
the Commission :was presented and that was made to
depend upon whether the Armour Car Lines was a con-

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. 235
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mon carrier subject to the Interstate Commerce Act. It
was replied that the Car Lines Company had no control

over the motive power and movement of the cars and was
not a common carrier subject to the act. And this was
said: "It is true that the definition of transportation in § 1
of the act includes such instrumentalities as the Armour
Car Lines lets to the railroads. But the definition is a
preliminary to a requirement that the carriers shall furnish
them upon reasonable request, not that the owners and
builders shall be regarded as carriers, contrary to the
truth." The language was perfectly apposite to the question under consideration, the relation of the Armour Car
Lines to the Armour Company and to the railroad. The
cars the latter obtained from the Car Lines Company
constituted the equipment of the railroad company and
were, of course, subject to the provisions of the Interstate
Commerce Act.
. The question with which the present case is concerned
was not presented to the court nor intended to be decided.
The testimony sought by the Commission was to expose
and prevent what were supposed to be discriminatory
practices, and the right to require the testimony depended, it was the effect of the decision, upon the relation
of the Armour Company to the Armour Car Lines through
the railroad, and whether what was paid to the Armour
Car Lines was in effect paid to the Armour Company and
made a means of discrimination. This view was rejected
and it was said:" It does not matter to the responsibility of
the roads whether they own or simply control the facilities,
or whether they pay a greater or less price to their lessor"
-the lessor of that case being the Armour Car Lines; and,
as it was not shown that it was merely the tool of the
Armour Company, it had immunity from the investigation. The case, therefore, is not authority for the proposition which it is urged to support.
Menasha Paper Co. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., needs

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

no comment. It quotes but attempts no explanation of
the words of the statute that is relevant to our present
inquiry. Indeed, in all of the cases the points of inquiry
and decision were different from the case at bar. They
declared or enforced or recognized the general duty of
carriers under the particular facts and the law to which
the carriers were subject.
It is next contended by the United States that the railroad has held itself out specifically to carry oil in tank
cars, and the fact, it is said, has been found by the Commission and is not reviewable, citing United States v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 314, 320. We
are unable to assent.
The railroad company in its answer to the petition
before the Interstate Commerce Commission alleged that
Rule 29 of the official classification No. 39 providing rates
for articles in tank cars stated that the carriers whose
tariffs were covered by such classification did not assume
any obligation to furnish tank cars. There is a concession
in the brief of the Interstate Commerce Commission that
such was the published tariff, though contesting its efficacy
to divest the company of its duty as a carrier. This might
be if. there was a duty; but the United States seeks to
establish the duty from the offer of the company and must
take the offer as made and cannot, nor can the Commission, ignore its explicit qualification that the company
assumed no obligation to furnish tank cars. The finding
of the Commission, therefore, was one of law and not of
fact, and is reviewable.
The railroad company, besides the contentions of want
of power in the Commission to make the order under
review, objects to it (1) in that it is defective because it
requires the company to supply cars for movement over
the lines of other carriers; and (2) that it is not administrative in character, but is uncertain, indefinite and unlawful.

UNITED STATES v. PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO.
242 U. S.

237

Opinion of the Court.

In support of the first contention the railroad company
points out that the company owns more tank cars than
all of the other carriers east of the Mississippi River,
amounting at the time of the hearing to 499 cars. The
total ownership of other cars east of the Mississippi River
amounted to 303, and the privately owned tank cars to
27,700. It therefore appears, it is said, that the railroad
ownership is less than 3% of the total ownership and that
of this 3% the company is furnishing more than half. The
company, therefore, asserts that if it be compelled to
furnish all of the tank cars required for the transportation
of oil on its line irrespective of their destination, it is
obvious that a burden out of all proportion is placed
upon it. It further complains that although the New
York Central Railroad serves the oil companies equally
with it, no order is made against that company but, on the
contrary, the entire burden is devolved upon it.
In support of the second contention the company asserts that the order of the Commission is not administrative is indicated by decisions of this court in actions for
failure to furnish cars.. The cases are: Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70 (1912);
EasternRy. Co. v. Littlefield, 237 U. S. 140 (1915); Penna.
R. R. Co. v. PuritanCoal Mining Co., 237 U. S. 121 (1915);
Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Mulberry Hill Coal Co., 238
U. S. 275 (1915).
Again, it is charged that the order expressed but a
legislative principle, has the generality of such principle
without any criterion of application. The order requires
the company to "provide . . . upon reasonable request and reasonable notice, at complainants' respective
refineries, tank cars in sufficient number to transport said
complainants' normal shipments in interstate commerce."
What is a reasonable request or reasonable notice, and
what are normal shipments? The order affords no answer
and if the railroad company ventures, however honestly,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

any resistance to a request or notice not deemed reasonable
or to shipments not deemed normal it must exercise this
right at the risk of a penalty of $5,000 a day against all
of its responsible Qfficers and agents. These considerations
are very serious (InternationalHarvester Co. v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 216; Collins v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 634), but the
view we have taken of the power of the Commission to
make the order, however definite and circumscribed it
might have been made, renders it unnecessary to pass
upon the contentions.
Decree affirmed.
DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. PEOPLE OF THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN.
DETROIT UNITED RAILWAY v. CITY OF
DETROIT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

Nos. 1, 4.

Argued October 20, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.

Plaintiff in error, in 1900, under the Michigan Street Railway law (Laws
1867, vol. 1, p. 46; Comp. Laws 1897, c. 168), acquired by purchase
certain street railway lines in the City of Detroit, with their franchises, and, soon afterwards, certain suburban lines, with their
franchises. The latter lines connected with the former at the city
boundary, but lay wholly within adjacent village and township
territory. The franchises for the city lines had arisen through ordinances of the city, among them ordinances passed in 1889, which
placed special restrictions on fares, and were accepted by the then
owners of the city properties. The franchises for the suburban
lines had arisen through village and township ordinances which
fixed the fares upon a basis more favorable to the respective grantees.
Until all were acquired by the plaintiff in error, the city properties
had been owned and held independently of the suburban properties.
Plaintiff in error united the properties thus acquired under one organization. Thereafter, by acts of the legislature passed in 1905
and 1907, the limits of the city were so extended that portions of
the two outlying railways were embraced thein. These acts

