OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

STEWART v. RAMSAY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 105.

Argued November 15, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

A direct writ of error lies, under Judicial Code, ยง 238, to test the jurisdiction of the District Court over the person of the defendant.
A District Court sitting in one State cannot acquire personal jurisdiction over a citizen and resident of another through civil process served
upon him while in attendance on such court as plaintiff and witness
and while he is returning from the court-room after testifying.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Robert C. Fergus for plaintiff in error.
Mr\ Clarence S. Darrow for defend9qnt in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
Stewart brought an action at law against Ramsay in
the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, and the summons was served personally
upon defendant in that District. The jurisdiction was
invoked on the ground that plaintiff was a citizen of Illinois and a resident of the Northern District and defendant
was a citizen and resident of Colorado. Ramsay pleaded
in abatement that he was a resident of the State of Colorado and was served with process while in attendance
upon the District Court as a witness in a case wherein he
was plaintiff and one Anderson defendant, and that the
process was served while he was returning from the courtroom after testifying. Upon plaintiff's demurrer this
plea was sustained, and, plaintiff electing to stand upon
his demurrer, it was ordered that the writ be quashed and

STEWART v. RAMSAY.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant go without day. The present writ of error
was sued out under ยง 238, Judicial Code, the jurisdictional
question being certified.
That a direct writ of error lies in such a case is well
settled. Merriam Company v. Saalfield, 241 U. S. 22, 26.
In our opinion, the decision of the District Court was
correct. The true rule, well founded in reason and sustained by the greater weight of authority, is, that suitors,
as well as witnesses, coming from another State or jurisdiction, are exempt from the service of civil process while
in attendance upon court, and during a reasonable time
in coming and going. A leading authority in the state
courts is Halsey v. Stewart, 4 N. J. L. 366, decided in the
New Jersey Supreme Court nearly one hundred years ago,
upon the following reasoning: "Courts of justice ought
everywhere to be open, accessible, free from interruption,
aid to cast a perfect protection around every man who
necessarily approaches them. The citizen, in every claim
of right which he exhibits, and every' defense which he is
obliged to make, should be permitted to approach them,
not only without subjecting himself to evil, but even free
from the fear of molestation or hindrance. He should also
be enabled to procure, without difficulty, the attendance
of all such persons as are necessary to manifest his rights.
Now, this great object in the administration of justice
would in a variety of ways be obstructed, if parties and
witnesses were liable to be served with process, while
actually attending the court. It is often matter of great
importance to the citizen, to prevent the institution and
prosecution of a suit in any court, at a distance from his
home and his means of defense; and the fear that a suit
may be commenced there by summons, will as effectually
prevent his approach as if a capias might be served upon
him. This is especially the case with citizens of neighboring States, to whom the povyer which the court possesses
of compelling attendance, cannot reach."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

The state courts, with few exceptions, have followed this
rule, applying it to plaintiffs as well as defendants, and to
witnesses attending voluntarily as well as those under
subpoena. Illustrative cases may be cited. Richardson
v. Smith, 74 N. J. L. 111, 114; Matthews v. Tufts, 87 N. Y.
568; Mitchell v. Huron Circuit Judge, 53 Michigan, 541;
Andrews v. Lembeck, 46 Oh. St. 38; Wilson v. Donaldson,
117 Indiana, 356; First Natl. Bank v. Ames, 39 Minnesota,
179; Linton v. Cooper, 54 Nebraska, 438; Bolz v. Crone,
64 Kansas, 570; Murray v. Wilcox, 122 Iowa, 188; Martin
v. Bacon, 76 Arkansas, 158.
. There are a few cases to the contrary, of which
Bishop
v. Vose, 27 Connecticut, 1, 11; Baldwin v. Emerson, 16
R. I. 304; Lewis v. Miller,Judge, 115 Kentucky, 623, are
instances.
In Blight v. Fisher (1809), Pet. C. C. 41, Fed. Cas. No.
1542, Mr. Justice Washington, sitting at circuit, held that
the privilege of a suitor or witness extended only to an
exemption from arrest, and that the service of a summons
was not a violation of the privilege or a contempt of court
unless done in the actual or constructive presence of the
court. But in Parker v. Hotchkiss (1849), 1 Wall. Jr. 269,
Fed. Cas. No- 10,739, District Judge Kane, with the concurrence, as he states, of Chief Justice Taney and Mr.
Justice Grier, overruled Blight v. Fisher, and sustained
the privilege in fayor of a non-resident admitted to make
defense in a pending suit and served with summons while
attending court for that purpose, the court declaring:
"The privilege which is asserted here is the privilege of
the court, rather than of the defendant. It is founded
in the necessities of the judicial administration, which
would be often embarrassed, and sometimes interrupted,
if the suitor might be vexed with process while attending
upon the court for the protection of his rights, or the witness while attending to testify. Witnesses would be chary
of coming within our jurisdiction, and would be exposed

SIM v. EDENBORN.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

to dangerous influences, if they might be punished with a
law suit for displeasing parties by their testimony; and
even parties in interest, whether on the record or not,
might be deterred from the rightfully fearless assertion
of a claim or the rightfully fearless assertion of a defense,
if they were liable to be visited on the instant with writs
from the defeated party." Since this decision, the federal
Circuit and District Courts have consistently sustained the
privilege. Juneau Bank v. McSpedan, 5 Bissell, 64; Fed.
Cas. 7,582; Brooks v. Farwell, 4 Fed. Rep. 166; Atchison
v. Morris, 11 Fed. Rep. 582; Nichols v. Horton, 14 Fed.
Rep. 327; Wilson Sewing Mch. Co. v. Wilson, 22 Fed. Rep.
803; Small v. Montgomery, 23 Fed. Rep. 707; Kinne v.
Lant, 68 Fed. Rep. 436; Hale v. Wharton, 73 Fed. Rep.
739; Morrow v. U. H. Dudley & Co., 144 Fed. Rep. 441;
Skinner & Mounce Co. v. Waite, 155 Fed. Rep. 828; Peet
v. Fowler, 170 Fed. Rep. 618; Roschynialski v. Hale, 201
Fed. Rep. 1017.
Judgment affirmed.

SIM v. EDENBORN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 8.

Argued May 5, 1915; restored to docket for reargument April 3,
1916; reargued October 23, 191.-I)cided December 4, 1916.

Respondent induced petitioner and others to join with him as subscribers to a syndicate agreement, under which the stock of a corporation was acquired, other property purchased and added to its
capital, its stock increased and the shares distributed to the subscribers in proportion to their subscriptions. By this agreement
respondent was constituted an agent for the other subscribers with
large powers, and became their fiduciary in respect of the acquisition

