UNITED STATES v. OPPENHEIMER.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

UNITED STATES v. OPPENHEIMER ET AL.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURTOF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 412. Argued October 19, 20, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.
A "motion to quash" an indictment, based upon a former adjudication
that a previous indictment for the same offence was barred by the
statute of limitations, held, in substance, a plea in bar. United States
v. Barber, 219 U. S. 72, 78.
Under the Criminal Appeals Act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat.
1246, the right to review decisions and judgments sustaining special
pleas in bar is not limited to cases in which the decisions or judgments
are based upon the invalidity or construction of the statutes upon
which the indictments are founded. United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S.
370, and United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S. 601, explained and distinguished.
A plea of the statute of limitations is a plea to the merits.
A judgment for defendant that the prosecution is barred by limitations
goes to his liability in substantive law; and, in whatever form the
issue was raised, such a judgment may be interposed as a conclusive
bar to another prosecution for the same offence.
The Fifth Amendment, in providing that no one should be twice put
in jeopardy, was not intended to supplant the fundamental principle
of res judicata in criminal cases.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Assistant Attorney General Warren, with whom Mr.

A. J. Clopton was on the briefs, for the United States.
Mr. Benjamin Slade, with whom Mr. L. Laflin Kellogg
and Mr. Abram J. Rose were on the briefs, for Oppenheimer.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error and others were indicted for a
conspiracy to conceal assets from a trustee in bankruptcy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Cu.

242 U. S.

Act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, ยง 29; 30 Stat. 544, 554. The
defendant Oppenheimer set up a previous adjudication
upon a former indictment for the same offence that it
was barred by the one-year statute of limitations in the
bankruptcy act for offences against that act, ยง 29d; an
adjudication since held to be wrong in another case.
United States v. Rabinowich, 238 U. S. 78. This defence
was presented in four forms entitled respectively, demurrer, motion to quash, plea in abatement, and plea
in bar. After motion by the Government that the defendant be required to elect which of the four he would
stand upon he withdrew the last-mentioned two, and
subsequently the court granted what, was styled the motion to quash, ordered the. indictment quashed and discharged the defendant without day. The Government
brings this writ of error treating the so-called motion to
quash as a plea in bar, which in substance it was. United
States y. Barber,219 U. S. 72, 78.
The defendant objects that the statute giving a writ
of error to the United States "From the decision or
judgment sustainifg a special plea in bar, when the
defendant has not been put in jeopardy," Act of March 2,
1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, is limited like the earlier
clauses to judgments based on the invalidity or construction of the statute upon which the indictment is founded.
But that limitation expressed in each of the two preceding
paragraphs of the statute is not repeated here. The
language used in United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, 399,
had reference only to the construction of the indictment
and to its sufficiency upon matters not involving a statute,
in cases brought up by the United States under the
earlier clauses of the Act. That quoted from United
States v. Kissel, 218 U. S. 601, so far as material also
meant that the sufficiency of the indictment would not
be considered here upon a writ of error to the allowance
of a plea in bar. In view of our opinion upon the merits

UNITED STATES v. OPPENHEIMER.
242 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

we do not discuss the preliminary objections at greater
length.
Upon the merits the proposition of the Government is
that the doctrine of res judicata does not exist for criminal
cases except in the modified form of the Fifth Amendment
that a person shall not be subject for the same offence to
be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; and the conclusion
is drawn that a decision upon a plea in bar cannot prevent a second trial when the defendant never has been
in jeopardy in the sense of being before a jury upon the
facts of the offence charged. It seems that the mere statement of the position should be its own answer. It cannot
be that the safeguards of the person, so often and so
rightly mentioned with solemn reverence, are less than
those that protect from a liability in debt. It cannot
be that a judgment of acquittal on the ground of the
Otatute of, limitations is less a protection against a second
tr4l than a judgment upon the ground of innocence, or
(that such a judgment is any more effective when entered
after a verdict than if entered by the Government's consent before a jury is empaneled; or that it is conclusive
if Ontered upon the general issue, United States v. Kissel,
2i8 U. S'. 601, 610, but if upon a special plea of the statue, permits the defendant to, be prosecuted again. We
'do not suppose' that it would be doubted that a judgment
upon a demurrer to the merits would be a bar to a second
indictment in the same words. Iowa v. Fields, 106 Iowa,
406. Wharton, Crim. P1. & Pr., 9th ed., ยง 406.
Of course the quashing of a bad indictment i's no bar
to a prosecution upon a good one, but a judgment for the
defendant upon the ground that the prosecution is barred
goes to his liability as matter of substantive law and one
judgment that he is free as matter of substantive law is as
good as another. A plea of the statute of limitations is a
plea to the merits, United States v. Barber, 219 U. S. 72,
78, and however the issue was raised in the former case,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

after judgment upon it, it could not be reopened in a
later prosecution. We may adopt in its application to
this case the statement of a judge of great experience in
the criminal law: "Where a criminal charge has been
adjudicated upon by a court having jurisdiction to hear
and determine it, that adjudication, whether it takes the
form of an acquittal or conviction, is final as to the matter
so adjudicated upon, and may be pleaded in bar to any
subsequent prosecution for the same offence.
In this respect the criminal law is in unison with that
which prevails in civil proceedings." Hawkins, J., in
The Queen v. Miles, 24 Q. B. D. 423, 431. The finality
of a previous adjudication as to the matters determined
by it, is the ground of decision in Commonwealth v. Evans,
101 Massachusetts, 25, the criminal and the civil law agreeing, as Mr. Justice Hawkins says. Commonwealth v.
Ellis, 160 Massachusetts, 165. Brittain v. Kinnaird, 1
Brod. & B. 432. Seemingly the same view was taken in
Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 334, as it was also in
Coffey v. United States, 116 U. S. 436, 445.
The safeguard ptovided by the Constitution against
the gravest abuses has tended to give the impression that
when it did not apply in terms, there was no other principle that could. But the Fifth Amendment was not
intended to do away with what in the civil law is a fundamental principle of justice (Jeter v. Hewitt, 22 How. 352,
364), in order, when a man once has been acquitted on
the merits, to enable the Government to prosecute him
a second time.
Judgment affirmed.

