OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, INTERSTATE
COMMERCE COMMISSION, ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY, ET
AL. v. MERCHANTS & MANUFACTURERS TRAFFIC ASSOCIATION OF SACRAMENTO ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 452.

Argued October 19, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Appellant carriers made applications to the Interstate Commerce
Commission, under § 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended
by the Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 547, for authority
to continue existing tariffs (and, more generally, to continue an
existing method) whereby rates were made lower for certain ports
and inland cities than for certain places less distant from points of
origin.
Held, that, in passing on such applications, the Commission was empowered, while granting the relief as asked in respect of the ports,
to grant it in a less degree only in respect of the inland cities, thus
making a distinction between them and the ports not made by the
tariffs or sought for in the applications.
The power of the Commission, under § 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended June 18, 1910, is not limited to granting or
denying in toto the precise relief applied for by a carrier; but whenever, following such an application, the Commission has considered
the special circumstances affecting the particular carrier in its relations to that section, it may exercise a broad administrative discretion in determining from time to time the relief which such carrier
should receive.
Quwre, whether application by the carrier is a prerequisite to the
granting of relief under § 4 as amended.
In a proceeding under § 4, as amended, the Commission represents
the public and the carrier is the only necessary party; interested
communities and shippers, though customarily heard, need not be
notified, and, at least in the absence of participation, are not
bound.
Such shippers or communities as deem themselves injured by dis-

UNITED STATES v. MERCHANTS &c. ASS'N.
242 U. S.

179

Argument for Appellees.

crimination or unreasonable rates in tariffs filed pursuant to orders
made by the Commission under amended § 4 have their remedy,
not in applying for a rehearing of the proceedings in which such
orders were made, but by direct applications to the Commission
for relief under §§ 13 and 15.
That part of amended § 4 which provides that when rates have been
reduced in competition with water routes they shall not be increased
unless, upon hearing, the Commission finds a reason in changes of
conditions other than the elimination of water competition, has no
application to a case in which the complaint is based not on increase but on difference of rates; in which the elimination of
water competition is denied by the parties complaining; and in
which the change complained of was part of a general readjustment of transcontinental rates made necessary by increase of water
competition and authorized by the Commission after prolonged
hearings.
231 Fed. Rep. 292, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood for the
United States.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. John E. Alexander for appellees:
The orders complained of and the tariffs filed thereunder operated, first, to increase freight rates to and from
Sacramento, Stockton, San Jose and Santa Clara, and
second, to remove those cities from the list of "California
Terminals" and classify them as "intermediates."
The
increase in rates was unjustified; and depriving the four
cities of the benefit of terminal rates was unreasonable
and discriminated against them in favor of San Francisco
and Oakland.
The carriers had petitioned, not to change rates, but
to continue the then method of rate-making under which

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Appellees.

242 U. S.

these four cities were given the same rates as the ports.
The only point at issue was whether higher rates could
be charged to intermountain points. The last plan
submitted by the carriers before the final order of the
Commission was, in effect, a request that the terminal
situation be not changed, and the Commission so regarded
it. The Commission, however, adopted a new scheme
without taking evidence and without any corresponding
application before it. The resulting tariffs increased the
rates of the complaining cities as above stated. Their
protests and demands for rehearing were denied. Thus
they were deprived of valuable interests without due
process of law.
The "long and short haul" clause of § 4 of the act, as
amended, is mandatory, except in special cases where a
particular carrier presents a specific application for relief
and after investigation the Commission finds that a special case exists. The proviso does not mean that the
Commission may of its own motion, without application
or hearing, make orders of exemption. It may only enter
an order in a special case, though afterwards, the matter
thus being before it, it may modify that particular order.
It has, however, no rate-making authority, and may
modify its orders only after hearing with notice to all
interested parties.
Respondents were entitled to such a hearing under § 4.

United States v. Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 314,
321.
Sections 13 and 15 have no application. The former
contemplates only complaints for acts done or omitted by
the carrier, as where their rates are unreasonable or discriminatory as regards certain persons or localities-such
acts as are unlawful under §§ 1, 2 and 3. In such cases
the party injured may complain to the Commission, but
where the complaint respects a wrongful act done by the
Commission itself, the remedy lies with the courts.

UNITED STATES v. MERCHANTS &c. ASS'N.
242 U. S.

181

Argument for Appellees.

The District Court had jurisdiction to grant the relief
both independently and by derivation from the Commerce Court. Judicial Code, § 207, par. 2; id., § 208;
Act of October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219. This
court has repeatedly held that where orders of the Commission exceed its authority, are not preceded by fair
hearing, are erroneous in law or contrary to the indisputable evidence, they may be set aside by the federal
courts.
Filing tariffs as directed by the orders did not constitute
compliance with § 4. It is the orders themselves that are
complained of. Besides having been filed on less than
30 days' notice, and without complying in other respects
with § 6, these tariffs were not the voluntary acts of the
carriers. They could not amount to a waiver of that
which § 4 requires for the protection of public and private
rights.
The last paragraph of § 4, as amended, prohibits this
increase of rates. Lowering of rail rates because of water
competition took place both before and after June 18,
1910. There are no "changed conditions" other than the
elimination of such competition. The complaining cities
are within the influence of water competition as much
now as ever, and quite in the same manner as the port
cities. The amendment of June 18, 1910, was meant to
evince the policy of Congress that communities and industries built up, as these were, under rates granted by
rail carriers because of water competition, should be
deemed to have acquired inchoate rights which such
carriers might not thereafter destroy.
The decree merely enjoins the enforcement of the order
in so far as it was made without authority. It works no
hardship or discrimination against intermediate points in
California or Nevada. No confusion can follow; the only
effect is that the carriers must apply the San Francisco.
rate to the four cities mentioned.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
By the Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 547,
amending § 4 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, carriers
were prohibited from charging more "for a shorter than
for a longer distance over the same line or route in the
same direction" without obtaining authority from the
Interstate Commerce Commission so to do. A period of
six months from the passage of the amendment was provided within which carriers might file application for
authority to continue charges of that nature then lawfully
existing.
For many years prior to 1910 it had been a common
practice to make freight rates from the East to Pacific
coast points lower than to intermountain territory, because of competition by the Atlantic-Pacific Ocean carriers. .About 185 interior cities near the coast had been
granted the same transcontinental rates as the ports of
San Francisco and Oakland, because the competing water
carriers customarily "absorbed" the local rates or charges
from the ports to those cities. Among the interior cities
thus treated as "Pacific Coast Terminals" were Sacramento, Stockton, San Jose and Santa Clara. The extent
to which the higher rates to intermountain territory were
Justified and the proper basis for "back haul" rates had
been the subject of many hearings before the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Proceeding under § 4 as amended, six railroads applied
to the Commission under date of December 7, 1910, for
relief in respect to westbound transcontinental commodity
rates. The applications, after enumerating the thcn
existing tariffs, sought authority specifically "to continue
all rates shown in the above-named tariffs from eastern
shipping points designated to Pacific coast terminal
points" and generally "to continue the present method of

UNITED STATES v. MERCHANTS &c. ASS'N.
242 U. S.

183

Opinion of the Court.

making rates lower at the more distant points than at the
intermediate points, such lower rates being necessary by
reason of competition of various water carriers" from
Atlantic to Pacific ports. After prolonged hearings the
Commission entered its so-called Fourth Section Order
No. 124, by whic, while declining to grant the appli~ations as made, it authorized charging, in some respects,
lower rates for the longer hauls. The limitation of such
charges was set by a zone system and rate percentage
basis prescribed by the Commission, which involved an
extensive readjustment of rates; but the existing practice
of 'treating these interior cities as terminals was not disturbed. The validity of the order was attacked by the
carriers in the courts and after three years of litigation,
finally sustained in Intermountain Rate Cases, 234 U. S.
476.
Meanwhile the "effective date" of the order had been
extended by the Commission. After the decision of this
court, further extensions of the "effective date" were
sought by the carriers and granted. Some modifications
of the order Were proposed by the carriers. Additional
hearings were had in which many shippers participated.
Changes in conditions occurring since the entry of the
original order on July 31, 1911, were considered-among
others, that Congress had passed the Act of August 24,
1912, giving the Commission jurisdiction over transportation "by rail and water through the Panama Canal";
that the Canal itself had been opened on August 15, 1914;
that competing ocean rates had been lowered and service
improved; and that the ocean carriers had discontinued
the practice of "absorbing" rates from the ports to
interior cities. An elaborate supplemental report was
made by the Commission on January 29, 1915, and another
on April 30,, 1915. The propriety of modifications in
addition to those proposed by the carriers was shown
and a new plan for constructing "back haul" rates, devel-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

oped by the Commission, was eventually embodied in the
Amended Fourth Section Order No. 124 of April 30th,
1915, and adopted by the carriers in the tariffs filed thereunder. Following the limitation imposed by the amended
order, the tariffs filed confined the low "Terminal" rates
to ports of call like San Francisco and Oakland; and the
interior coast cities including Sacramento, Stockton, San
Jose and Santa Clara, were subjected to rates materially
higher than San Francisco and Oakland, though much
lower than those to intermountain territory.
Representatives of these four cities, conceiving them
aggrieved by the refusal to grant them the same rates as
the ports and alleging that they had participated in whole
or in part at hearings which preceded the entry of the last
amendment order, applied to the Commission for a rehearing and when their application was denied, brought
this suit in the District Court to restrain the enforcement
as to them of the amended order, and of the tariffs filed
thereunder. The City of Santa Clara and associations
representing the traffic interests of Sacramento, Stockton
and San Jose joined as' plaintiffs. The United States, the
Interstate Commerce Commission and the six railroads
were made defendants. The bill alleged, among other
things, that these cities had for a number of years enjoyed
the same rates as San Francisco and Oakland; that large
industries and other businesses had been established there
because they enjoyed terminal rates; that their connercial
importance and prosperity would be ruined if the rates
were withdrawn; that no changed conditions existed
justifying a withdrawal of terminal rates; that they had
not been parties to the proceedings in which the orders
were made; and that the "orders authorizing the withdrawal of terminal rates" from them were, among other
things, "discriminatory and unjust, were made without
said cities having their day in court or without giving them
an opportunity to show the unreasonableness thereof, that

UNITED STATES v. MERCHANTS &c. ASS'N.
242 U. S.

185

Opinion of the Court.

no justification for such increase was shown, and the order
of April 30, 1915, was without evidence, that petitioners
have h-n denied the equal protection of the law and deprived of property without due process of law, to their
irreparable damage."
The case was heard before three judges; and a final
decree was entered which declared that the "orders of the
Interstate Commerce Commission of January 29, 1915,
and April 30, 1915, in Fourth Section Applications Nos.
205, 342, 343, 344, 350 and 352," in so far as they authorize
the carriers to charge for the transportation of westbound
transcontinental freight destined to Sacramento, Stockton,
San Jose and Santa Clara, California, "any greater
amount than is concurrently charged for the like carriage
of like freight to San Francisco and Oakland, California,
were beyond the statutory powers of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the enforcement thereof should be
enjoined; and said orders in the particulars above mentioned are hereby canceled and set aside." The decree also
enjoined and canceled to like extent the tariffs filed in
pursuance of such orders. The District Court rested its
decision that the Commission had no statutory power to
enter the amended order upon the ground, that an order
authorizing higher rates to these interior cities could not
legally be entered unless there was an "application." to it
by the carriers for that specific purpose and "a hearing
upon that particular application as in a special case";
that there had been no such application and hearing and
that consequently the orders were void and the tariffs
filed in pursuance thereof illegal. Merchants & Manufacturers Traffic Ass'n et al. v. United States et al., 231 Fed.
Rep. 292.
The appeal, in which all the defendants joined, raises
important questions involved in the administration of the
Fourth Section as amended June 18, 1910, namely:
First: Is it essential to the validity of an order au-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

thorizing a lower rate for a longer haul, that it be based
upon an application asking only the precise relief
granted?
Second: What is the remedy of a community or shipper
which deems itself aggrieved by the order made?
The orders here in controversy were confessedly based
upon applications made by the carriers.
Both the
amonded orders and the decree recite by numbers the
applications dated December 7, 1910. The objection
made by the appellees is that the limited authority
granted by the Commission had not been applied for;
since the carriers asked specifically for leave to continue
lower rates, which were the same for ports and for interior
California cities, but the Commission permitted these
rates to ports while it denied like rates to the interior cities.
Respondents deny that the District Court holds in effect
that applications for relief must be granted in toto or
denied, in toto; but such is the necessary effect of its decision. Amended § 4 empowers the Commission "upon
application" to authorize a carrier "to charge less for
longer than for shokter distances." These carriers asked
leave, among other things, to charge on westbound transcontinental freight to about 193 coast and interior cities
much less than to intermountain territory. The Commission permitted them to charge, to eight of these cities which
were ports, as much less as the applications requested;
but as to the other 185, which were interior cities, including the four complaining here, permitted the carriers to
charge only somewhat less. In other words, the Commission granted a part of the relief asked. The District
Court says it had no power so to do. But there is nothing
in the act to justify limiting the power of the Commission
to either a grant or a denial in toto of the precise relief
applied for. Such a construction would make § 4 unworkable and defeat the purpose of the amendment. It is
at variance with the broad discretion vested in the Com-

UNITED STATES v. MERCHANTS &c. ASS'N. 187
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mission and the prevailing practice of administrative
bodies. It fails to give effect to the provision that "the
-commission may from time to time prescribe the extent
to which- such designated common carrier may be relieved from the operation of this section." It is inconsistent with Intermountain Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476,
where- the order sustained granted relief very different
from that applied for; and it finds no support in United
States v. Louisville & Nashville Railroad, 235 U. S. 314,
322, cited by the District Court, in which case. relief from
the operation of the Fourth Section had not been granted.
The clause in Amended Fourth Section which declares
"That upon application to the Interstate Commerce Commission such common carrier may i-a special cases, after
investigation, be authorized by the Commission to charge
less for longer than for shorter distances" was designed to
guard against the issue, by the Commission, of general
orders suspending the long and shiort haul clause and to
ensure action by it separately in respect to particular carriers and only after consideration of the special circumstances existing. Whenever such consideration has been
given-" the commission may from time to time prescribe
the extent to which such designated common carrier may
be relieved from the operation of this section."
It may be doubted whether application by the carrier is
a prerequisite to the granting of relief. As was said in
IntermountainRate Cases, 234 U. S. 476, 485, § 4 vests in
the Commission the "primary instead of a reviewing function" to determine the propriety of a lesser rate for a
longer distance; and § 13 declares that the Commission
"shall have the same powers and authority to proceed
with any inquiry instituted on its own motion as though
it had been appealed to by complaint or petition under any
of the provisions of this Act, including the power to make
and enforce any order or orders in the case, or relating to
the matter or thing concerning which the inquiry is had

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

excepting orders for the payment of money." Unless
formal application be an indispensable prerequisite to the
exercise by the Commission of the power granted by the
Fourth Section, its absence or a defect in it could be
waived; and it would be waived by the filing of tariffs
under the order entered. For the order is permissive
merely. The carrier is the only necessary party to the
proceeding under § 4. The Commission represents the
public. While it is proper and customary for communities
or shippers interested to participate in hearings held, there
is no provision for notice to them. They are not bound by
the order entered; at least in the absence of such participation. And if the rates made by tariffs filed under the authority granted seem to them unreasonable, or unjustly
discriminatory, §§ 13" and 15 afford ample remedy. Respondents contend that, after the amended order was
entered and the tariffs filed, they did apply to the Commission for relief !'but were denied the right of a hearing"
and that "their protest and demand were ignored. and
denied." What they did was to petition for a "rehearing"
in the proceedings under the Fourth Section, to which
they now say they were not parties, instead of applying
for redress under § 13, as they had a legal right to do.
They mistook their remedy. To permit communities or
shippers to seek redress for such grievances in the courts
would invade and often nullify the administrative authority vested in the Commission; and, as this case illustrates, the attempt of the court to remove some alleged
unjust discriminations might result in creating infinitely
more. The decree of the District Court cancels the
amended order and the tariff only so far as it concerns the
four complaining cities and thereby discriminates perhaps
most unjustly in' their favor as against the other 181 interior cities.
It was also contended on behalf of the four cities that
the amended orders violated the clause added to § 4 by

UNITED STATES v. MERCHANTS &c. ASS'N.
242 U. S.

189

Opinion of the Court.

the Act of June 18, 1910, which provides that "Whenever
a carrier by railroad shall in competition with a water
route or routes reduce the rates on the carriage of any
species of freight to or from competitive points, it shall
not be permitted to increase such rates unless after hearing
by the Interstate Commerce Commission it shall be found
that such proposed increase rests upon changed conditions
other than the elimination of water competition." The
answers to this contention are many. What these four
cities complain of is not increase of rates but the fact that
San Francisco and Oakland may be given rates lower than
theirs; and they strongly deny that water competition has
been eliminated. Indeed, it was the increased effectiveness of water competition due to the opening of the
Panama Canal-a notable change in conditions-which
compelled the rate readjustment of which they complain;
and the higher rates to the interior cities made under authority of the Commission were granted after prolonged
hearings as part of the general readjustment of transcontinental rates. The provision relied upon has no
application to such a case.
The decree of the District Court must be reversed with
directions to dismiss the bill.
Reversed.

