SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. CITY OF RALEIGH.
242 U. S.

15

Syllabus.

the purpose of furthering the later work. See New York
Central & Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Carr, 238 U. S. 260,
263. Pennsylvania Company v. Donat, 239 U. S. 50. Kalem
Co. v. Harper Bros., 222 U. S. 55, 62, 63.
But it is necessary to see how the case was dealt
with
in the trial court. The Railroad Company did not ask
to go to the jury on the question whether the deceased
was engaged in interstate commerce. It simply asked
the court to direct a verdict, on the ground among others,
that it appeared as matter of law that he was so engaged.
But if the question had been left to the jury and they
had disbelieved the testimony that the empty car was
moved for the ulterior purpose of interstate commerce
there would have been no error of law in allowing a verdict for the plaintiff to stand. It is true that the Judge
seems to have assumed that the business in hand was
intrastate, but the only objection indicated was to his
not ruling the contrary and as the Railroad did not ask
to go to the jury and the only ruling requested was properly denied the judgment must stand.
Judgment affirmed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. CITY OF
RALEIGH.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 59.

Argued November 1, 1916.-Decided November 20, 1916.

Herein the action of the Board of Aldermen of the City of Raleigh in
assuming to grant to a railroad company "permission to occupy"
a sidewalk with a spur track is held, in the circumstances stated in
the opinion, to have amounted at most to the conferring of a mere
revocable license.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

The general principle reiterated that what seems on its face a mere
license by a municipality may not be converted into a contract by
resort to general implications.
The exception which allows duration and contractural quality to be
attributed by implication alone to particular privileges, whose continued enjoyment is vitally and essentially related to enduring
powers and duties of a corporate grantee, has no application to a
case like this, where the action of the city, concerning a mere permission to exercise a facility as a license, occurred long after the
railway corporation was created and established in business and
was in no way necessary for the discharge of its corporate functions.
Long occupation and use of the spur track for railroad purposes, with
the assent of the city, could not create a permanent right.
219 Fed. Rep. 573, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Murray Allen for appellant.
Mr. Jno. W. Hinsdale, Jr., for appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
Upon the assumption that contract rights protected
by the Constitution of the United States would be violated, the bill sought to restrain the enforcement of an
ordinance which directed the removal of a spur track on
a sidewalk on a designated street and block. On the bill,
answer and on agreed facts the court refused an injunction on the ground that there was no contract right in
existence and, treating this conclusion as going to the
vitals of the whole case, dismissed the bill, and a direct
appeal was taken.
Although there are fourteen assignments of error, but
one question arises, Was there a contract, since leaving
out mere forms of statement all the assignments concern
this single question and we come to its solution. In doing

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. CITY OF RALEIGH.
242 U. S.

17

Opinion of the Court.

so, to avoid that which is superfluous, we concede for
the sake of the argument only that the city had the lawful
authority to make a contract concerning the track on the
street and sidewalk in question. With this argumentative concession the question then is, not what there was
power to do, but what was done, and to solve it requires
a brief statement.
In 1835 the Raleigh & Gaston Railroad Company,
to whose rights it is conceded the complainant and appellant succeeded, was authorized to and shortly afterwards built a railroad from Gaston to Raleigh, North
Carolina. Entering the latter city through its streets
with its consent and building therein machine shops, a
railroad yard and other facilities, the main tracks of the
railroad curved into a block which the company had
bought and upon which it established its terminals,
bounded on the front or west by Salisbury street, on the
rear or east by Halifax street, and on the north and south
by North and Lane streets. Many years subsequently,
in 1881, on the block just below and on the same side of
Salisbury street a cotton-compress had been built fronting
on Salisbury street and abutting on the sidewalk on that
street. In that year the railroad company asked permission of the city authorities to extend a track to and
along the sidewalk on the block in front of the compress,
which was granted, the official record of the consent of
the city having been manifested by the following entry
in the minutes of the Board of Aldermen: "Upon application of John C. Winder, General Superintendent, the
Raleigh and Gaston Railroad Company was granted
pernission to occupy the sidewalk on the east side of
Salisbury street, between Jones and Lane streets, for.
the purpose of running a track." In virtue of this con-'
sent a spur track projecting from the main tracks as they
curved into the terminal block, was built which ran down
to and upon the sidewalk in front of the compress. For

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

many years this track was used for business going in
and out of the compress, as well as for the general purposes of the railroad. In 1906, however, the compress
ceased to be operated, and subsequently (about 1910 or
1911) the railroad company, owning the block on which
the compress was situated, removed the pame and built
upon the block a warehouse. It was not possible, however, from the track on the sidewalk to directly reach
such warehouse, as along the block where it fronted on
Salisbury street tracks were laid between the warehouse
and the spur track which for the purposes of the railroad
were depressed below the level of the street and sidewalk,
and thus the spur track on the sidewalk was only available for parking cars or as a team track and was alternately in use for one or the other of these purposes when
the city adopted the assailed ordinance directing the
removal of the spur track.
Under this statement it becomes at once apparent
that the court below rightly decided that the contract
right asserted had no existence since on the very face of
the consent which was given a mere right to occupy was
conveyed without any contract as to time and which
therefore, taking the best view for the railroad, amounted
to conferring upon it a mere-license to put and use a track
upon the sidewalk and therefore subject to the power
of the city to revoke whenever it deemed the municipal
interest required it to do so.
But the contention is that although it be conceded
that the well-settled rule is that general implications
may not be resorted to for the purpose of converting a
grant of a municipality which is upon its face a mere
license into a contract for a stated period or in perpetuity,
nevertheless that rule is subject to a well-defined limitation or exception which as presented in the argument
in various forms may be stated as follows: That where
general powers are conferred and duties are imposed upon

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. CITY OF RALEIGH.
242 U. S.

19

Opinion of the Court.

a corporation which from their nature and essential character presuppose the right to exert them or the duty to
perform them during a specified time or in perpetuity,
and a particular power or right is conferred on the corporation which has a necessary relation thereto or an
essential connection therewith, although such particular
power or right may not have expressly taken the form
of contract or grant for a stated time or in perpetuity,
nevertheless such result may be implied, by considering
the essential relation which the particular power or right
granted bears to the general powers and duties possessed
and the necessary connection between the two for the
purpose of giving a common duration to both. Louisville v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 224 U. S. 649, 663;
Owensboro v. Cumberland Telephone Co., 230 U. S. 58,
65-66; Boise Water Co. v. Boise City, 230 U. S. 84, 91;
New York Electric Lines Co. v. Empire City Subway Co.,
235 U. S. 179, 191-194.
But while the general rule is well founded and the exception or limitation by which it is asserted to be qualified
is well settled, it has no relation to the case in hand, since
the particular action of the city in question concerned a
mere permission to exercise a facility as a license given
long after the creation of the railway corporation and not
inherently or in any degree necessarily controlling its
power to discharge its corporate attributes. Indeed so
much is this the*case on the face of the situation here
presented that it becomes apparent that to apply the
limitation to a case like this would destroy the general
rule itself.

--

The contention that even though this be the case, in
as much as the railroad had for a long time operated the
spur track on the sidewalk and used it for its general
railroad purp ses with the assumed knowledge and assent
of the city, thereby the existence of -a contractual and
permanent right must be inferred,. is manifestly without

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

merit. Indeed it amounts to saying that possession under
a mere license was capable of causing that which was revocable and precarious to become contractual and permanent.
Affirmed.

O'NEIL v. NORTHERN COLORADO IRRIGATION
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.

No. 68. Argued November 6, 1916.-Decided November 20, 1916.
Under the laws of Colorado here applicable, as construed by her highest
court, a suit by a claimant of a water right in one water district to
contest a water priority defined by a general adjudication in another,
is barrdd if not brought within four years from the rendition of the
decree.
A state law, which provides for a public adjudication of property
rights in a given subject-matter and declares that even persons who
are not entitled to be heard in the proceeding shall ultimately be
bound, does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment quoad such
persons if it allows them an adequate opportunity, including a reasonable time, to assert their rights in other judicial proceedings.
A judicial construction of a statute, supportable by frank reasoning,
and not subversive of any earlier judicial construction upon which
a party might be held to have relied, does not deprive him of due
process, though it take him by surprise and come too late for him
to act upon it and thus save his rights.
A departure by state decision from a rule of property established by
earlier state decisions may not be relied on, without more, as a
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Sauer v. New York,
206 U. S. 536; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger, 238
U. S. 67.
56 Colorado, 545, affirmed.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.

