OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

relied on as ground for reversal (Hardingv. Illinois, 196
U. S. 78, 87, 88), in view of a possible new trial, it seems
proper to point out that the method approved by the trial
court for estimating damages where the deceased's cause
of action does survive conflicts with the rule sanctioned by
Vs in the Craft Case.
The judgment below is reversed and the cause remanded
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. BEAHAM.
ERROR TO THE KANSAS CITY COURT OF APPEALS, STATE OF
MISSOURI.
No. 118. Argued November 16, 1916.--Decided December 4, 1916.
'When a passenge claims damages from a carrier for the loss of baggage
accepted by thl carrier for transportation between States, the rights
and liabilities of the parties depend upon the Acts of Congress, the
agreement of the parties and the common-law principles accepted
and enforced by the federal courts.
In such case, the carrier is entitled to the presumption that its business
was being rightfully conducted.
Where a stipulation, limiting a carrier's liability for baggage unless its
value is stated and an extra charge paid, is printed on the face of ao
ticket as an ingredient of the ticket contract, and is, in substance,
reiterated on a baggage check, one who, purchasing the ticket, employs it at once in checking baggage, receives the check and accepts
and uses both ticket and check without objection, may be presumed
to have assented to the stipulation, although he did not read it.
As bearing on its baggage liability, an interstate carrier has a right to
put in evidence applicable tariff schedules on file with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, and to have them duly considered by the
court.
In an action over lost baggage, copies of tariff schedules on file with

NEW YORK CENTRAL Ac. R. R. v. BEAHAM.
242 U. S.

149

Opinion of the Court.

the Interstate Commerce Commission, certified by its Chairman,
and containing clauses limiting baggage liability, were offered by the
defendant and received in evidence notwithstanding objection to
the mode of certification. Judgment having been rendered on the
theory that the limitation could not bind the plaintiff without her
assent, the court below, on appeal, though holding such theory erroneous, affirmed the judgment upon the ground that the certification was insufficient and the copies therefore inadmissible. Held,
that, whether the certification was sufficient or not, it was error to
affirm the judgment and thus foreclose the defendant from protecting
itself by introducing other evidence on a new trial.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Albert S. Marley, with whom Mr John S. Marley
and Mr. Robert J. Cary were on' the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Justin D. Bowersock, with whom Mr. Robert B.
Fizzell was on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
At its New York City Station, in September, 1910, Miss
Beaham purchased of plaintiff in error a first 'Class ticket
over its own and connecting lines on the face of whiclwas
printed-" Issued by the New York Central & Hudson
River Railroad. Good for one passage of the class indicated on coupons attached to Kansas City, Missouri,
when stamped and sold 'by an agent holding written
authority as prescribed by law, and presented with coupons attached. Subject to the following Contract:
5. Baggage liability is limited to wearingapparel not to
exceed one hundred (100) dollars in value for a whole
ticket and fifty (50) dollars for a half ticket unless a greater
value is declared by the owner, and excess charge thereon
paid at the time of taking passage. '

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Immediately after purchasing the ticket she presented
it at the baggage department; her trunk was received for
transportation; and she accepted a check or receipt therefor upon which were the words-" See conditions on back.
Value not stated." On the back this was printed-"Notice to Passengers. Baggage consists of a passenger's
personal wearing apparel and liability is limited to $100
(except a greater or less amount is provided in tariffs)
on full fare ticket, unless a greater value is declared by
owner at time of checking and payment is made therefor."
The trunk and contents having been lost she sued
plaintiff in error for their full value in the Circuit Court,
Jackson County, Missouri. Admitting responsibility
for one hundred dollars the company claimed exemption
from any larger recovery because of limitations specified
in the ticket and impliedly assented to when it was acceptedoand used; and also because of the same limitations
embodied in its tariff schedules filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
A jury being waived the cause was tried by the court.
Acceptance and use of both ticket and check were shown
and nothing in the evidence indicated any purpose to deceive or mislead the purchaser or inability on her part to
appreciate the provisions in question; she disclaimed
having read them and denied their validity under general
principles of law. Counsel for the railroad offered in
evidence copies of its tariff schedules on file with the Interstate Commerce Commission, certified by the Chairman
of that body. These contained clauses limiting liability
for baggage to one hundred dollars unless greater value
was declared and paid for; and they were admitted notwithstanding an objection to mode of their authentication.
The Circuit Court held no agreement limiting liability
resulted from acceptance and use of ticket and check,

NEW YORK CENTRAL &c. R. R. v. BEAHAM.
242 U. S.

151

Opinion of the Court.

and that, "even if the local and interstate tariffs of excess baggage rates introduced in evidence were filed with
the Interstate Commerce Commission of the United States,
and ,properly posted as required by the Interstate Commerce Act, still plaintiff would be entitled to recover the
reasonable value of her trunk and the reasonable value of
the articles of baggage contained therein, unless she expressly assented to the provisions of said tariffs limiting
the liability of the defendant to $100 for loss of baggage
unless a greater value should be declared and paid for."
A judgment for $1771.52 was affirmed by the Kansas
City Court of Appeals. It held that Boston and Maine
Railroad v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97, would necessitate a re-

versal but for the fact that the record contained no competent evidence to show a schedule on file with the
Commission specifying liability for baggage; "the Federal
statute provides that copies of tariff rates on file with
that commission, shall be received in evidence, if certified

by the Secretary, under the seal of the commission,"
and certification by the Chairman is insufficient. It
therefore wholly disregarded the copies in the record
and treated the cause as though they had not been introduced.
The transactions in question related to interstate commerce; consequent rights and liabilities depend upon
acts of Congress, agreement between the parties, and
common law principles accepted and enforced in federal
courts. And *the carrier is entitled to the presumption
that its business is being conducted lawfully. Southern
Express Company v. Byers, 240 U. S. 612,,614; Cincinnati,

New Orleans & Texas Pacific Railway Co. v. Rankin, 241
U. S. 319, 326.

In the circumstances disclosed, acceptance and use of
the ticket sufficed to establish an agreement prima facie
valid which limited the carrier's liability. Mere failure
by the passenger to read matter plainly placed before her

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

could not overcome the presumption of assent. Railroad Company v. Fraloff, 100 U. S, 24, 27; The Kensington,
183 U. S. 263; Phineas Fonseca v. Cunard Steamship Co.,
153 Massachusetts, 553.
In order to determine the liability assumed for baggage
it was proper to consider applicable tariff schedules on
file with the Interstate Commerce Commission; and the
carrier had a federal right not only to a fair opportunity
to put these in evidence but also that when before the court
they should be given due consideration. Southern Express Company v. Byers, 240 U. S. 614; Kansas City
Southern Railway Co. v. Jones, 241 U. S. 181. After their
admission in evidence by the trial court the schedules
could not be disregarded arbitrarily without denying the
railroad's federal right; and we think they were so treated
by the Court of Appeals. We are cited to no decision
of the Supreme Court of Missouri recognizing any settled
rule ofpractice there which required such action and the
unjust consequences of it are apparent. Assuming, without deciding, the correctness of its opinion that the schedules as certified were inadmissible and improperly received,
nevertheless the court should not have destroyed the
carrierzs opportunity to protect itself by introducing other
evidence upon a new trial.
Reverse and remand for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissents.

