OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

The decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals will be reversed, and the decision of the District Court, modified to
conform to the conclusions expressed in this opinion, will
be affirmed.

LONG SAULT DEVELOPMENT COMPANY v. CALL
(AS SUCCESSOR OF KENNEDY), AS TREASURER
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
No. 49. Argued April 14, 17, 1916; restored to docket for reargument
June 12, 1916; reargued October 31, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.
When a claim of contractual rights under a state statute is denied by
a state court purely upon the ground that the attempted grant was
in conflict with the state constitution and therefore void ab initio,
the "contract clause" of the Federal Constitution is not violated
and this court may not review the decision.
In determining whether such decision was influenced by legislation
subsequent to the alleged contract, this court will give considerate
attention to the state court's decision, presuming an intention on
the part of such court to obey the Constitution and laws of the
United States; it will not, however, confine itself to the language
of the opinion, but will examine the decision in its scope and sub-

stance, and decide for itself whether subsequent legislation was
given effect in arriving at the result.
The decision of the court below, holding void an act of the legislature
of New York (Laws of 1907, c. 355) which purported to grant rights
in the Saint Lawrence River, was arrived at independently of the
later repealing act and accompanying legislation found in Laws of
1913, chaps. 452 and 453.

Writ of error to review 212 N. Y. 1, dismissed.

T,

case is stated in the opinion.

LONG SAULT DEVELOPMENT CO. v. CALL. 273
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Henry W. Taft, with whom Mr. Francis Sims McGrath was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Merton E. Lewis, with whom Mr. E. E. Woodbury,
Attorney General of the State of New York, and Mr. C. T.
Dawes were on the briefs, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
This proceeding was commenced in the Supreme Court
of New York by the Long Sault Development Company,
hereinafter called the plaintiff, for the purpose of testing
the constitutionality of an act of the legislature of that
State, passed in 1907, to incorporate the plaintiff and to
grant to it important rights in the bed of, and with respect
to the use of the waters of, the St. Lawrence River. (Laws
of 1907, c. 355.)
The case is now in this court on the claim that this
Act of 1907 is a valid law and that the property rights,
springing from the grants therein and the acceptance of
them by the plaintiff, were impaired by a later act, passed
in 1913, purporting to repeal the Act of 1907, and by the
effect given to this later act by the decision of the Court of
Appeals, rendered in June, 1914.
The title of the Act of 1907 indicates the comprehensive
character of the grants which the legislature attempted to
make by it. It reads as follows: "An Act to incorporate
the Long Sault development company, and to authorize
said company to construct and maintain dams, canals,
power-houses and locks at or near Long Sault island, for
the purpose of improving the navigation of the St. Lawrence river and developing power from the waters thereof,
and to construct and maintain a bridge, and carry on the
manufacture of commodities."
The act proceeds, first, to incorporate the Long Sault
Development Company, giving it perpetual corporate

OCTOBER TERM, 1916,
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

existence, and then in terms to authorize it: to construct,
maintain and operate dams, canals, reservoirs, and the
appurtenances necessary or useful- for the purpose of
developing waterpower and electrical energy, at such
point or points adjacent to the south shore of the St. Lawrence River, and in and upon the river bed near Long
Sault Island or Barnhart's Island as may be selected by the
company; to erect and maintain powerhouses and electrical transmission appliances; and to construct a bridge or
bridges across the river, in connection with the dam authorized, and to charge tolls for passage thereon.
These important rights are declared to be granted upon
various specified conditions, the most important of which
is "that the rights hereby granted shall never be so used
as to impair or obstruct the navigation of the Saint
Lawrence river, but, on the contrary, that such navigation shall be preserved in as good condition as, if not better
than, the same is at present, regard being always had to the
amount of the natural flow of water in said river as affecting its navigability from time to time."
The act further provides that, after the Congress of the
United States shall authorize the construction of the
proposed dams, locks and canals, and after the payment of
certain sums of money into the State Treasury then the
commissioners of the land office shall, upon application of
said corporation, "grant unto it the title and interest of the
people of the state in and to lands under the waters of the
Saint Lawrence river to be covered or occupied by said works
and locks and power-houses." The payments to be made,
after the year 1911, shall be not less than $25,000 for each
year. The petition alleges that the river at Long Sault
Rapids is now practically innavigable being navigated
only by light draft passenger vessels down stream during
the summer tourist season and that all other traffic up
and down the river passes around the rapids by way of
the Cornwall Canal on the Canadian side of the river,

LONG SAULT DEVELOPMENT CO. v. CALL. 275
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff was duly organized as a corporation and
expended a large sum of money in.preparing to utilize the
grants of the act.
By an act which became a law on the eighth day of May,
1913, the legislature of the State in terms repealed this
Act of 1907, under which the plaintiff in error is claiming.
Almost three months before this repealing act was
passed this suit was commenced by the filing of a petition
in the Supreme Court of New York, praying for a writ of
mandamus, to be directed to the Treasurer of that State,
requiring him to receive as a payment into the Treasury
of the State the sum of $25,000, as the sum due and payable on February 1st, 1913, for the year 1912, under the
provisions of the Act of 1907, which sum had theretofore
been tendered to the Treasurer and had been by him refused, for the reason, it is alleged, that he had been advised
by the Attorney General of the State that said act was
unconstitutional and void. The application of the petitioner for a writ of mandamus was denied by the Supreme
Court and this decision was affirmed by the Appellate
Division and by the Court of Appeals which ordered the
record in the case remitted to the Supreme Court, to be
proceeded upon according to law.
Up to this time there is nothing in the record before us
to indicate that any question was presented to the state
courts, excepting the single one as to whether or not the
Act of 1907 was valid under the constitution of the State
of New York.
More than a month later, on the fourteenth day of
July, 1914, the Court of Appeals, on motion of the plaintiff, requested the Supreme Court to return the remittitur
to the Court of Appeals, which court then amended the
same by incorporating therein the statement that "Upon
the argument of the appeal in this cause before the Court
of Appeals" there was submitted a brief, containing five

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

specified points. Of these in "Point III" alone counsel for
the plaintiff for" the first time, and then only by way of
argument, attempt to present a federal question by claiming that if the repealing act is to be regarded as an attempted condemnation of the special franchises claimed
by the plaintiff it "would be unconstitutional in that such
franchises were not taken by the State for public use," in
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
It is significant to note that the Court of Appeals, in its
decision, rendered before the remittitur was thus amended,
did not treat or regard .the repealing act as "an attempted
condemnation of the special franchises claimed by the.
plaintiff," nor did it afterwards so treat it.
Upon the record thus described the plaintiff in error
comes into this court, claiming that the act of the legislature of the State of New York of 1907 is a valid, constitutional Jaw, and that, it having been accepted and acted
upon by the plaintiff, contract and other property rights
resulted which, under the decision of the Court of Appeals,
have been impaired or taken away by the repealing Act of
1913, in violation of the Constitution of the United States
and of the-Fourteenth Amendment thereto, and it therefore prays for a reversal of the judgment of the Supreme
Court, entered pursuant to the decision of the Court of
Appeals.
The defendant in error meets this claim of the plaintiff
by a denial of the jurisdiction of this court, for the claimed
reason that the Court of Appeals reached the conclusion
that the Act of 1907 was unconstitutional and void without
reference to, and without giving any effect to, the subsequent repealing statute.
The grants of the Act of 1907 are such that, if it was a
valid law, upon their being accepted, they constituted
property or contract rights, of which the plaintiff could
not be deprived, and which could not be impaired, by

LONG SAULT DEVELOPMENT CO. v. CALL. 277
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

subsequent legislation, and, therefore, the denial by the.
defendant in error of the jurisdiction of this court renders
it necessary for u to determine whether the Court of
Appeals, in its decision, gave any effect to the repealing
act. If it did not give effect to that act, either expressly
or by implication, this court is without jurisdiction to review its decision, for the reason that the provisions of the
Constitution of the United States for the prptection of
contract rights are directed only against the impairment
of them by constitutions or laws adopted or passed subsequent to the date of the contract from which such rights
spring, and do not reach decisions of courts construing
constitutions or laws which were in effect when the contract was entered into, as has been held by a long line of
decisions extending from Knox v. Exchange Bank, 12
Wall. 379, to Cross Lake Shooting and Fishing Club v.
State of Louisiana, 224 U. S. 632.
In deciding this question, this court is not limited to the
mere consideration of the language of the opinion of the
state court, but will consider the substance and effect of
the decision, and will for itself determine what effect, if
any, was given by it to the repealing act. Fisherv. City of
New Orleans, 218 U. S. 438; Cross Lake Shooting and Fishing Club v. State of Louisiana,224 U. S.632, and Louisiana
Railway & Navigation Co. v. New Orleans, 235 U. S. 164.
While this court will exercise independent judgment as to
the scope of the decision of the state court, it will give to
that decision that respectful and sympathetic attention
which is always due to the highest court of a State (Fisher
v. City of New Orleans, supra), with the presumption
always in mind, that the state courts will do what the
Constitution and laws of the United States require. Neal
v. Delaware, 103 U. S.370, 389; Chicago &c. R. R. Co. v.
Wiggins Ferry Co., 108 U. S.18; New Orleans v. Benjamin,
153 U. S.411, and Defiance Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S.
.184.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

An examination of the opinion of the Court of Appeals
shows that the court, in its consideration of the repealing
Act of 1913, not only did not give to it an effect which
would impair any contract relation springing from the
Act of 1907, but that, on the contrary, it concluded that
the repeal "could not operate to confiscate any valid
franchise or property right which the Long Sault Development Company had previously acquired under the act
repealed," and that this conclusion made it necessary for
the court to "consider and determine whether the legislature possessed the constitutional power to convey away
the state control over the navigation of the St. Lawrence
River to the extent attempted by the act of 1907."
And then addressing itself to the constitutional problem
thus stated, the court proceeds, upon principle and authority, to decide: That, under the constitution of the
State of New York, the power of the legislature of that
State to grant lands under navigable waters to private
persons or corporations is limited to purposes which may
be useful, convenient or necessary to the public; that it
has no power to so part with the title to such lands that
the State may not in the future improve navigation over
them, if the public interest shall so require; and that they
are held by the State on such a trust for the public use that
the legislature has no power to authorize the conveyance
of them to a private corporation to maintain navigation
thereover "in as good condition 'as . .
at present,"
thereby parting for all time with its power to improve such
navigation.
The court finds its principal authority fbr these legal
positions in the decision of this court in Illinois Central
Railroad Company v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387, in which it
was decided: That the title which a State holds to land
under navigable waters is different in character from that
which it holds in land intended for sale and occupation, in
the former case it being held in trust for the people of the

LONG SAULT DEVELOPMENT CO. v. CALL. 279
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

State, in order that they may enjoy the navigation of the
waters and carry on commerce over them, free from obstruction or interference by private parties; that this
trust devolving upon the State in the public Interest is one
which cannot be relinquished by a transfer of the property; that a State can no more abdicate its trust over such
property, in which the whole people are interested, so as to
leave it under the control of private parties, than it can
abdicate its police powers in the administration of government and the preservation of the peace; and that the trust
under which such lands are held is govern, ental so that
they cannot, be alienated, except to be used for the improvement of the public use in them.
This was a pioneer decision upon the subject at the time
it was rendered by a divided court, but the principles
upon which it proceeds have been frequently approved by
this court. Morris v. United States, 174 U. S.196; United
States v. Mission Rock Co., 189 U. S.391, 406; Kean v.
Calumet Canal Co., 190 U. S. 452, 481; and they have been
very widely approved by many of the highest courts of
the States of the Union. Rose's Notes on U. S. Reports,
Vol. 12, p. 270; Supp. III, p. 291; Supp. V, p. 369.
Having arrived at these conclusions of law, the Court of
Appeals proceeds to make application of them to the Act
of 1907, and concludes that that act, in terms, virtually
turns over to the corporation the entire control of the
navigation of the Long Sault Rapids (provided that the
consent of Congress to the grant could be obtained), requiring only that the company shall pay certain stipulated
sums of money, and that it shall preserve the navigation of
the river "in as good condition as .
. the same is at
present," and says that, no matter how much the interest
of the public might demand the improvement of the river
inthe future, the State would be powerless to act, either
directly or by constraint upon the corporation, and for this
reason it concludes that the act is, in substance, an abdica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
MCKENNA and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting.

242 U. S.

tion of the trust upon which the State holds control over
the St. Lawrence River as navigable water and that,
therefore, it is unconstitutional and void. Whether this
construction placed upon the act is the one which this
court would place upon it if coming to an original interpretation of it, we need not inquire, for, under the authorities hereinbefore cited, the prohibition of the Constitution against the impairing of contracts by state
legislation does not reach errors committed by state courts
when passing upon the validity and effect of a contract
under a constitution or laws existing when it is made.
This discussion of the decision by the Court of Appeals
makes it very clear that that decision does not give any
effect whatever to the repealing Act of 1913, but that,
wholly independent of that act and proceeding upon
sound principle and abundant authority, the court arrived at the conclusion that the Act of 1907 was unconstitutional and void, and therefore it results that this case
does not present any question for decision under the
Federal Constitution, and that, for want of jurisdiction,
the writ of error mdst be
Dismissed.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissent upon the ground that Chapter 355 of the Laws of
1907 of the State of New York, creating the Long Sault
Development Company and conferring upon it certain
rights and franchises, when accepted, as it was, by- the
company, constituted a contract between the State and
the company; that the repealing act and accompanying
legislation passed in 1913 (Chaps. 452 and 453) had the
effect. of impairing the obligation of that contract, in
contravention of ยง 10 of Article I of the Federal Constitution; and that effect was given to the latter legislation by
the decision under review.

