386

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

it had agreed to submit to. There is a very evident and
substantial basis for a distinction that denies compensation to a private corporation in such a case while at the
same. time allowing compensation to a public corporation
that has made no such agreement.
Judgment affirmed.

HARNAGE ET AL. v. MARTIN ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF

OKLAHROMA.

No. 112. Argued December 19, 1916.--Decided January 8, 1917.
Of two qualified applicants for anallotment under § 11 of the Cherokee
Agreement of 1902 (Act of July 1, 1902, c. 1375, 32 Stat. 716), the
.one owning the improvements on the tract in question, though junior
in time of application, is entitled to prevail.
In such case a substantial equity in the improvements will suffice to
hold the tract against a claimant whose interest in them is nil.
A decision of the Secretary of the Interior that one of two contesting
claimants of an allotment under § 11 of the Cherokee Agreement,
supra, was the owner of the improvements on the land, is conclusive,
unless made without evidence to support it or otherwise the result
of an error of law.
Where a community of interest in the possession and improvements
of a tract of land existed among several members of a Cherokee
family, an agreement among them that one should have a specific
part of the land for her allotment, held, operative to pass an interest
in the improvements on that parcel sufficient to give a preferential
right to select it under § 1.1 of the Cherokee Agreement of 1902.
Section 18 of the Cherokee Agreement of 1902 recognized in terms
the right of a tribal member to hold possession by his agent as well
as by himself of land not exceeding the allottable quantity.
Certain proceedings before the Commissioner to the Five Civilized
Tribes, and others in the United States Court for the Indian Territory, for the sale of the improvements upon the allotment here in

HARNAGE v. MARTIN.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

question, held, ineffectual against one who was not a party to those
proceedings and who made application for the allotment, based on
ownership of the improvements, before they were instituted.
40 Oklahoma, 341, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. James A. Veasey, with whom Mr. Lloyd A. Rowland
and Mr. Jere P. O'Mearawere on the briefs, for plaintiffs
inerror.
Mr. Robert J. Boone, with whom Mr. W. L. McKenzie
was on-the briefs, for defendants in error.
MR.

JUSTICE 'PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an equity action involving the right to an allotment of land in the Cherokee Nation, containing about
77 acres. The plaintiff in error Harnage, and the defendant in error Martin, are members of the Cherokee Tribe,
and rival claimants to the allotment. The other parties
are two oil companies that claim under Harnage and
Martin respectively, and admittedly have no higher rights
than theirs. Harnage brought an action in one of the
district courts of Oklahoma for the purpose of charging
the legal title to the lands in question, which stood in Mrs.
Martin, with a trust in his favor, upon the ground that
the Secretary of the Interior, through a gross misapprehension of the facts or an error of law, had awarded the
land to her, when under the provisions of the Cherokee
Agreement and other acts of Congress pertaining to the
subject it should have been awarded to him.
By the Agreement (Act Of July 1, 1902, c. 1375, 32
Stat. 716, 717) itwas provided as follows:
"Sec. 11. There shall be allotted by the Commission
to the Five Civilized Tribes and to each citizen of the
Cherokee tribe, ., . . land equal in value to one
hundred and ten acres of the average allottable lands of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the Cherokee Nation, to conform as nearly as may be
to the areas and boundaries established by the Government survey, which land may be selected by each allottee
so as to include his improvements.
"Sec. 18. It shall be unlawful after ninety days after
the ratification of this Act by the Cherokees for any member of the Cherokee tribe to inclose or hold possession of,
in any manner, by himself or through another, directly
or indirectly, more lands in value than that of one hundred
and ten acres of average allottable lands of the Cherokee
Nation, either for himself or for his wife, or for each of
his minor children, if members of said tribe; and any
member of said tribe found in such possession of lands, or
having the same in any manner inclosed, after the expiration of ninety days after the date of the ratification
of this Act shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor."
By §§ 74 and 75 (p. 727) the act was to take effect upon
ratification by a majority of the legal voters of the Nation.
It was thus ratified on August 7, 1902.
On May 13, 1904, Harnage made application to the
Dawes Commission to have the land in controversy allotted to him, and his application was granted. Thirteen
days later Mrs. Martin made a similar application, and this
was refused on the ground of the prior allotment to Harnage; thereupon she instituted a contest before the Commission against the Harnage allotment. It came to trial
before the Dawes Commissioner in September, 1907, and
resulted in a decision in favor of Mrs. Martin. Harnage
appealed to the Commissioner of Indian Affairs, who
rendered a like decision, and this, on appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, was affirmed; and deeds for the land
in contest were made to Mrs. Martin pursuant to the aot.
Upon the trial of the equity case plaintiffs in error introduced a certified transcript of all proceedings and evidence in the contest proceeding, and this was the only

HARNAGE v. MARTIN.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

evidence offered that was at all pertinent to the question
we have to decide. Defendants in error demurred to the
evidence, and the demurrer was sustained and the bill of
complaint dismissed. This judgment was affirmed by'the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma. 40 Oklahoma, 341.
Harnage having admittedly filed first upon the land in
controversy, Mrs. Martin was entitled to prevail in the
contest only by showing that at the time of the Harnage
filing she was the owner of the improvements, within the
meaning of § 11 of the Agreement, and for that reason
entitled under the provisions of the same section to take
this particular land for her allotment. It was found by
the Commissioner to the Five Civilized Tribes who heard
the contest and by the Commissioner of Indian Affairs
and the Secretary of the Interior who heard the successive
appeals that Mrs. Martin was the owner of the improvements; and the only question for our determination is
whether this decision was without evidence to support it
or was otherwise the result of some error of law on the
part of those officers. Ross v. Stewart, 227 U. S. 530, 535;
Ross v. Day, 232 U. S. 110, 117; Johnson v. Riddle, 240
U. S.467, 474.
Each of the departmental decisions was made in writing,
but the findings are somewhat informal, each appeal having resulted in adding something to what had been found
before,-a fact not surprising since the -testimony is very
voluminous, occupying more than 500 pages of the printed
transcript in this court. The following is an outline of the
facts found: Mrs. Martin was the granddaughter of an
Indian woman known as Mary Anderson, or Anson, afterwards Mary Thursday, and was the daughter of William
Bob Anson, otherwise known as Wild Bill. She had a
brother known as Sam Bob. All these parties were Delaware Indians, adopted into the Cherokee Tribe, and as
such were entitled to certain Delaware payments from the
Government. During Mrs. Martin's childhood she and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.'

her brother and their parents resided with the grandmother, who was the head of the family, upon an improved
tract of land known as the "old home place," located
south and west of the land in controversy. Wild Bill died
in 1889, and his wife about the same time; and, after this,
such payments as were due to Wild Bill as a Delaware
were paid to Mary Thursday, and also certain small payments that were due to the contestant. About the year
1891 contestant, then a child of about ten years, was
removed by force or undue influence to the home of a
Delaware named Frenchman, and kept there until the
Delaware payments of 1891 and 1893, averaging over $500
each, were paid to the members of the tribe. The payments due to contestant were collected by Frenchman,
who appropriated them to his own Use, this having been
his object in assuming control over the child. Later she
was sent away to school at the expense of the Government,
and afterwards returned to the vicinity of her home, where
she supported herself by her labor. In November, 1898,
when she was about eighteen years of age, she was married
to George Martin, and shortly after this she and her husband visited Mary Thursday, and the latter then ascertained that contestant had not secured any land for future
allotment. (This was after the establishment of the
Dawes Commission, and after the passage of the Curtis
Act of June 28, 1898 [c. 517, § 11, 30 Stat. 495-497] when
the allotment of the Indian lands in the then Territory
was in contemplation; Woodward v. DeGraffenried, 238

U. S. 284, 291.) During contestant's absence the original
home place had been added to by the purchase in 1893 of
the improvements on about 90 acres of land lying immediately north of it for $800, the purchase price having been
paid by Mary Thursday and Sam Bob from the proceeds
of the Delaware payments, and the bill of sale for the improvements having been made to them. The entire place
then comprised about 200 acres of improvements. Mrs.

HARNAGE v. MARTIN.
212 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Thursday, recognizing an indebtedness to contestant on
-account of having received Delaware payments due to her
and to her father, and there being sufficient land for herself and Sam Bob and contestant, gave to contestant a
right to select the land in controversy, or at least to take
as an allotment some portion of the home place, with the
understanding that she, Mary Thursday, would hold it
until the time for allotment, which was done. From the
time of the making of this arrangement Mrs. Martin was
recognized by her grandmother and her brother as having
an interest in the place, that is, a right to share in the improvements to the extent necessary to entitle her to an
allotment out of the land, notwithstanding her involuntary absence from home during her childhood. It was
contended that Mary Thursday, at the time of the transaction referred to, wag of unsound mind, but this was
overruled as unsupported by the evidence.
It appears that before Mrs. Martin filed her allotment
selection Mis. Thursday had located her own allotment
in the southern 'art of the home place, and Sam Bob had
located his in thte northqrn part, and the land lying between these was left for Mrs. Martin. This, in view of
the previous agreement of Mrs. Thursday, was found to
be equivalent to a transfer to Mrs. Martin of the specific
improvements upon the intervening tract. The Department found that after the northern and southern portions
of the farm were merged into one place there was a recognized community of interest among the members of the
family growing out of their relationship and the commingling of their funds, whereby Mrs. Martin had an
interest in every part of the family holdings, and that
when Sam Bob elected to take his allotment in the northern
part of the place and Mary Thursday to take hers in the
southern part, they impliedly relinquished to the contestant as the remaining member of the family their interest in the tract of land lying between.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 t. S.

An agreement that Mrs. Martin should have a part of
the Thursday place for her allotment might fairly be held
to be equivalent to giving her a sufficient interest in the
improvements to support a preferential right to the allot-'
ment, for by Cherokee law ownership of improvements
entitled the owner to possession of the land; and in § 11
of the Curtis Act there was a proviso "that whenever it
shall appear .that any member of a tribe is in possession
of lands, his allotment may be made out of the lands in
his possession, including his home if the holder so desires."
The same general policy was afterwards carried into § 11
of the Cherokee Agreement, with more particular recognition of ownership of the improvements as the decisive
point.
The contention that the findings were unsupported by
evidence cannot be sustained. The evidence is to some
extent circumstantial, but it is sufficient. It, was contradicted by Wallace Thursday, the husband of Mary,
but his unreliability was clearly shown.
It is argued that under § 18 of the Agreement, Mrs.
Thursday's possession, after November 5 of that year (90
days after date of ratification), of all lands in excess of the
value of 110 acres of average allottable lands for herself
and a like amount for each of her minor children, if any,
was unlawful, and that because Mrs. Martin reached the
age of twenty-one before the ratification-of the Agreement
Mrs. Thursday could not lawfully hold for her any part
of the surplus lands. This is based upon a clear misinterpretation of.§ 18, the very terms of which permitted Mrs.
Martin, as a member of the Cherokee Tribe, to hold possession, by herself or "through another," of lands not
exceeding in value 110 acres of average allottable lands,
and thus authorized her to hold the lands by her grandmother as her agent.
There is no question 'that the improvements upon the
allotment in question, as well as upon the adjoining lands,

HARNAGE v. MARTIN.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were substantial in value, and- were such as under the
tribal law carried a right of occupancy, and such as were
recognized in § 11 of the Curtis Act and § 11 of the Agreement. There is nothing inconsistent with the policy of
the latter act in giving to Mrs. Martin, as owner of a
substantial equitable interest in the improvements that
were upon the tract in question when the act was passed,
a preferential right to select that as her allotment. The
policy was to give recognition to the established laws and
customs of the Cherokees (Const. Art. I, § 2; Laws, 1892,
§§ 706, 761, 762), under which citizens of the Nation might
and did enclose and improve portions of their common
domain and thereby establish a prior right to the possession of those lands, transferable to another citizen by a
sale of the improvements. The Agreement substituted a
system of allotments with ownership of the soil in the
place of a mere possessory right, and its provisions were
intended to limit the quantity of land that might be held
by or for a single citizen, but they recognized the superior
equity of an owner of improvements over that of a citizen
who had no such ownership, and the precise character of
the ownership was of little consequence as against a party
having none at all.
Among the records that were introduced in evidence
in the equity suit was an application made in the year
1905 to the Commissioner to the Five Civilized Tribes by
Wallace Thursday, acting as guardian of the person and
estate of Sam Bob, a minor, and of Mary Thursday, an
insane person, for the sale of the improvements upon the
allotment in controversy as surplus holdings of those Indians, and certain orders made in the same year by the
United States Court for the Northern District of the
Indian Territory upon the application of Wallace Thursday authorizing him in the same capacity to sell the
improvements to Harnage. But as Mrs. Martin was not a
party to these proceedings, and they were taken long after

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

the filing of her application for allotment, they can have
no effect as against her.
Since we are convinced that the decision of the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma deprived plaintiffs in error of no right
to which they were entitled under the laws of the United
States, it results that the judgment must be and it is
A jflrmed.

BAKER, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS ADMINISTRATRIX OF BAKER, v. BAKER, ECCLES & COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 115.

Argued December 19, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

The rule that the personal estate of an intestate has its situs at his
domicile, and is subject to be administered and distributed according to the domiciliary laws, is merely a rule of the common law,
which the States may adopt, modify or reject, as their policies

dictate.
Each State has the power to control and administer the personal assets
qf an intestate found within her borders, such as debts due from a
local corporation or the shares of its stock, to satisfy the rights of
her own citizens in the distribution of such assets.
No State, therefore, has the power, by probate or other proceedings
in rem, to fix the status as to .administration, pnd determine the
course of devolution, of personal property of an intestate situate
beyond her borders and within the domain of another State.
Under the Fourteenth Amendment, the courts of one State are without
power to determine by an action in personam the domicile of a decedent or the devolution of his personal assets situate in another
State, as against persons, residents of the latter, who do not appear
in the proceedings and are notified by publication only.
The full faith and credit clause of the Constitution and the act of
Congress passed pursuant to it do not entitle a judgment in personam

