OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

merit. Indeed it amounts to saying that possession under
a mere license was capable of causing that which was revocable and precarious to become contractual and permanent.
Affirmed.

O'NEIL v. NORTHERN COLORADO IRRIGATION
COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.

No. 68. Argued November 6, 1916.-Decided November 20, 1916.
Under the laws of Colorado here applicable, as construed by her highest
court, a suit by a claimant of a water right in one water district to
contest a water priority defined by a general adjudication in another,
is barrdd if not brought within four years from the rendition of the
decree.
A state law, which provides for a public adjudication of property
rights in a given subject-matter and declares that even persons who
are not entitled to be heard in the proceeding shall ultimately be
bound, does not violate the Fourteenth Amendment quoad such
persons if it allows them an adequate opportunity, including a reasonable time, to assert their rights in other judicial proceedings.
A judicial construction of a statute, supportable by frank reasoning,
and not subversive of any earlier judicial construction upon which
a party might be held to have relied, does not deprive him of due
process, though it take him by surprise and come too late for him
to act upon it and thus save his rights.
A departure by state decision from a rule of property established by
earlier state decisions may not be relied on, without more, as a
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Sauer v. New York,
206 U. S. 536; Chicago & Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger, 238
U. S. 67.
56 Colorado, 545, affirmed.

TnE case is stated in the opinion.

O'NEIL v. NORTH'N COLORADO IRRIGATION CO. 21
242 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Mr. Fred R. Wright, with whom Mr. Charles D. Hayt,
Mr. Clyde C. Dawson, and Mr. G. K. Hartenstein were on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
The effect of the construction placed upon the Colorado
irrigation acts by the court below was to take the plaintiff's property without due process and deprive him of the
equal protection of the laws. Plaintiff had a right to take
water from a tributary of the South Platte River in Water
District No. 23. By the constitution and laws of Colorado
such a right is recognized as a right of real property.
Nichols v. McIntosh, 19 Colorado, 22; Gutheil Park Inv.
Co. v. Montclair, 32 Colorado, 420. By a decree of the
District Court for Park County, determining the water
priorities for Water District No. 23, entered in October,
1889, this right was given a priority as of May 10, 1879.
The right of the defendant Irrigation Company to take
water from the South Platte lower down was defined by
the District Court for Douglas County, by a similar decree
for Water District No. 8, in December, 1889, and assigned
a priority as of January, 1879. Under'the irrigation laws
of 1879 and 1881, which- governed these adjudications,
plaintiff had no right to appear and assert his claim in
the proceeding in District No. 8. Jurisdiction there was
confined to the adjudication of claims in that particular
district. Irrigation Co. v. Downer, 19 Colorado, 595;
Independent Ditch Co. v. Agricultural Ditch Co., 22 Colorado, 513. Plaintiff, therefore, was neither actually nor
constructively a party to that proceeding, and as to him
the decree was res inter alios. After an enjoyment, uninterrupted and- unchallenged for thirty years, his right is
now sought to be destroyed by a decision which would
render this old decree conclusive against him. This is
not due process of law. Brown v. Denver, 7 Colorado, 305;
Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Davidson v. New Orleans,
96 U. S. 107; Hagarv. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701;
Holden v. Hardy, 169 U." S. 366. He has never been al-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916:
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

242 U. S.

lowed an opportunity to contest either the date or the
measure of water assigned to the company's priority.
To apply this decree indirectly, by resort to the four
year limitation provision contained in §§ 34 and 35 of the
law of 1881, would be wholly indefensible. The act shows
on its face that the limitation was intended to apply only
as between claimants in the same water district. Irrigation Co. v. Downer, supra; Nichols v. McIntosh, supra;
Crippen v. X. Y. IrrigatingDitch Co., 32 Colorado, 447;
Broad Run Investment Co. v. Deuel and Snyder Improvement Co., 47 Colorado, 573. The Nichols Case establishes
that a claimant in the district of adjudication who is not
made a party and served is not bound even after the four
years. How, then, could such a decree apply to an outsider who could not have been made a party if he chose?
An owner who, like the plaintiff, is in full possession and
enjoyment, has no occasion or legal opportunity to bring
suit until his right is challenged. Saint v. Guerrerio, 17
Colorado, 448; Wheeler v. Northern Colorado Irrigation
Co., 10 Colorado, 587. One who is in actual or constructive possession of property cannot be compelled to take
measures against a mere claimant, and a law destroying
his right if he fails to do so "is in no sense a limitation law
but an unlawful confiscation." Grosbeck v. Seeley, 13
Michigan, 329.. See also Cooley, Constitutional Limitations, 4th ed., p. 455, 7th ed., p. 523; Tiedeman, State &
Federal Control of Persons and Property (1900), p. 871;
Farrarv. Clark, 85 Indiana, 449; Eldridge v. Kruhl, 27
Iowa, 160; Baker v. Kelly, 11 Minnesota, 358; Buty v.
Goldfinch, 74 Washington, 532; 46 L. R. A. (N. S.), 1065,
and footnotes; Lewis v. Soule, 56 Iowa, 13; 2 N. W. Rep.
401, and footnotes; Monk v. Carbin, 58 Iowa, 13; Pinkham
v. Pinkham, 60 Nebraska, 600; Nind v. Myers, 15 N. Dak.
400; Foster v. Clark, 21 Colo. App. 192; Dimpfel v. Beam,
41 Colorado, 25; Clark v. Hough, 49 Colorado, 197.
As construed by the court below in Fort Lyon Canal

O'NEIL v.NORTH'N COLORADO IRRIGATION CO. 23
242 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Co. v. Arkansas Valley Co., 39 Colorado, 332, and in the
case at bar, this is not a statute of repose, but an unjust
attempt to fasten a void judgment upon one who had no
notice and could not even have been heard in opposition
to it. See Keyser v. Lowell, 117 Fed. Rep. 400; East
Kingston v. Towle, 48 N. H. 57.
Prior to the Port Lyon Company Case, supra,it had been
directly adjudicated in Nichols v. McIntosh, supra, that
neither the two year nor the four year statute applied to.
anyone but a party to the action. This was a rule of
property which could not constitutionally be altered by
later decisions to the prejudice of plaintiff's right. Gelpcke
v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 222.
None of the cases from this court cited by defendant in
error is applicable. They are mostly cases of actions in
rem, where constructive service was upheld, as in the
California "burnt-record" case, American Land Co. v.
Zeiss, 219 U. S. 47, or cases dealing with the recording
acts, such as Vance v. Vance, 108 U. S. 514. In all of them
notice and an opportunity to act were given, by constructive .service, statute, or in some other manner. In no case
was a decree, rendered without jurisdiction of person or
subject, made effective through a statute of limitations.
Barker v. Harvey, 181 U. S. 481, is similar. It is one of a
series of cases holding that the Federal Government, on
taking over territory from another power, may by act of
Congress require all persons claiming under grants from
such power to submit their claims to a court or other body
for confirmation. This was said by this court to be a
constitutional method of separating public from private
lands. Here again was notice and an opportunity to act
before the statute attached; and where the question of
title is one directly between the sovereign and a private
party, the former may well have the right to compel the
latter to prove his claim.
Appellant also argued that Colorado Laws of 1887,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

pp. 297 et seq., §§ 7-9, as amended in 1903,-Rev. Stats.
1908, §§ 3349, 3350, which direct that all adjudicated
priorities in each irrigation division be tabulated and administered in the order of their dates, without reference to
their order in the respective component water districts,
would be unconstitutional if construed to apply to his
case retroactively.
Mr. L. F. Twitchell, with whom Mr. Fred Farrar,Attorney General of the State of Colorado, Mr. Luther M.
Goddard and Mr. Paul M. Clark were on the brief, for
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a complaint brought by the plaintiff in error to
quiet his title to alleged water rights on Tarryall Creek,
a tributary of the South Platte River, and to enjoin the
defendant Irrigation Company and the state officials
from closing the plaintiff's ditch under an assertion of the
Irrigation Company's superior right. The defendants
justified under a decree establishing the Irrigation Company's priority and a statute making the decree conclusive
after four years. The plaintiff replied and argued that
the statutes if construed to have the alleged effect took
his property without due process of, law contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment. The defendants demurred
and the state courts upheld the defence. 56 Colorado,
545.
The case is this: In 1879 the State established water
districts, the plaintiff's water rights being in district 23
and the defendant's in district 8 directly below 23 upon,
the South Platte. Jurisdiction was conferred upon the
District Courts for the proper county to adjudicate all
questions concerning priority of appropriation and other
questions of right between "owners of ditches drawing

O'NEIL v. NORTH'N COLORADO IRRIGATION CO. 25
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

water for irrigation purposes from the same stream or its
tributaries within the same water district." Laws of 1879,
Feb. 19, § 19, p. 99. Rev. Stats. 1908, § 3276. The
provisions were enlarged by an Act of February 23, 1881,
p. 142, but still seemingly confined to controversies between parties in the same district, until they came to the
sections of limitation. By § 34 the act was not to prevent
suits within four years, and by § 35 after "four years from
the time of rendering a final decree, in any water district,
all parties whose interests are thereby affected shall be
deemed and held to have acquiesced in the same
and thereafter all persons shall be forever barred from.
setting up any claim to priority of rights to water- for
irrigation in such water district adverse or contrary to
the effect of such decree." Laws of 1881, pp. 159, 160.
Rev. Stats. 1908, §§ 3313, 3314. Later statutes were
enacted in 1887 and 1903 creating divisions and requiring
the Irrigation Division Engineers to tabulate the priorities
and rights as established by decree in the different districts of their divisions and to administer the use of water
accordingly. But these statutes are not material. The
parties' rights were held to be fixed under the Act of
1881.
On December 10, 1883, the proper court for the defendant company's district made a decree that the company was entitled to a priority of right to the use of water
for irrigation purposes of 1184 cubic feet of water per second from the South Platte and its tributaries, dated
January 18, 1879, which was prior to the date of the plaintiff's rights. It will. be observed that the Act of 1881
was in force when this decree was made. The plaintiff
contends that the construction of § 35 of the act, as
applying to parties in a different district, this construction
having been first announced after the period of limitation
had gone by, had the effect of a new statute declaring his
rights barred by time already elapsed, and attempted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

make conclusive against him a proceeding to which he
was not a party and in which he would not have been
heard.
So far as the last objection goes the answer
is that if it
be true that the plaintiff was not entitled to be heard on
the defendant's decree, still there was nothing to hinder
the State from providing that if he took no step to assert
his rights within a reasonable time after the judicial
assertion of an adverse title, the decree being a public
fact, he should lose those rights. See Barker v. Harvey,
18r U. S. 481. Soper v. Lawrence Brothers Company, 201
U. S. 359, 367, 368. American Land Co. v. Zeiss, 219 U. S.
47, 60. Montoya v. Gonzales; 232 U. S. 375, 378. The
answer .to the first half of the plaintiff's contention is no
less plain. It is that the construction of a statute does
not take a party's property without due process of law
simply because it takes him by surprise and when it is too
late for him to act on the construction and save his rights.
That is all that the plaintiff has to complain of. There
was no different construction of the statute by the court
before the limitation had run, that might have lulled him
to repose. The only decisions relied upon by the plaintiff
as tending to favor him are Nichols v. McIntosh, 19
Colorado, 22 and Sterling Irrigation Co. v. Downer, 19
Colorado, 595, which were not rendered until 1893 and
1894, and both of which are consistent with Fort Lyon
Canal Co. v. Arkansas Valley Sugar Beet & IrrigatedLand
Co., 39 Colorado, 332, establishing the construction followed in this case. It should be added that however
strong the argument for a different interpretation, the one
adopted also was strongly supported, so that there can
be no pretence that a perverse reading of the law was
used as an excuse for giving a retrospective effect to the
law of 1903. The decision -was absolutely entitled to
respect.
. It is suggested that the cases cited established a rule of

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

property and that any departure from it violated the
plaintiff's rights under the Fourteenth Amendment. But
we already have said that the cases do not establish the
rUle supposed, and if they did something more would be
necessary before the plaintiff could come to this court.
Sauer v. New York, 206 V. S. 536, 547, 548; Chicago &
Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger, 238 U. S. 67, 76.
Judgment affirmed.

EX PARTE UNITED STATES, PETITIONER.
PETITION

No. 11, Original.

FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

Argued January 10, 11, 1916.-Decided December 4,
1916.

Mandamus, out of this court, is a proper repiedy for enforcing a criminal sentence where the District Court which passed it has defeated
its execution by an ultra vires order of suspension.
The proceeding should be directed to the District Judge, with a view
to the annulment of the order of suspension; not to the clerk with
a view to the issuance of a commitment in spite of it.
An accused person was duly sentenced in a District Court of the United
States pursuant to an act of Congress, and the court then immediately made an order that execution of the sentence be suspended
"during the good behavior of the defendant," the effect of whfch,
if sustained, would have been to exempt him permanently and ab
solutely from the punishment provided by the act and reflected in
the sentence. Held, that such a suspension-the legal equivalent
of an absolute and permanent refusal to impose any sentence under
the statute-was beyond the power of the court.
The Constitution assigns to the legislature the power to enact laws
defining crimes and fixing the degree and method of punishment;
to the judiciary the power to try offenses under those laws and
impose punishment within the limits and according to the methods
therein provided; to the executive the power to relieve from -the
punishment so fixed by law and so judicially ascertained and imposed.

