OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

question of the varying rest needed after work extended
beyond the lawful time. In this case there was evidence
that whether technically on duty or not the plaintiff had
been greatly overtaxed before the final strain of more
than sixteen hours and that as a physical fact it was far
from impossible that the fatigue should have been a cause
proximately contributing to all that happened. If so,
then by the Employers' Liability Act, §§ 3 and 4, questions
of negligence and assumption of risk disappear.
Judgment aflirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v.
STINEMAN COAL MINING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 11. Argued May 14, 1915; restored to docket for reargument June 14,
1915; reargued October 25, 1915.-Decided December 18, 1916.
An action against an interstate carrier for damages caused by unfair
and discriminatory departures from a rule of car distribution in
times of car shortage may be prosecuted in a state court. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Sonman Shaft Coal Co., ante, 120.
The rule of car distribution relied on by the plaintiff having been held
discriminatory and illegal by the Interstate Commerce Commission,
in due proceedings, at the complaint of other shippers, and this
being proven by reports and orders of the Commission produced in
evidence, held, that the administrative question, so determined,
could not be revived by the carrier to oust the jurisdiction of the
court.
By such proceedings of the Commission the Act to Regulate Commerce intends no less to redress past discriminations than prevent
them in future, under the carrier's rule, and this for the benefit of all
shippers who have been or may be affected thereby; and when the
Commission finds the rule obnoxious, not because of temporary or
changeable conditions, but inherently and from its adoption, and, be-

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. STINEMAN COAL CO. 299
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sides ordering its discontinuance, recognizes that 911injured shippers
are entitled to reparation and awards it to such as appear and prove
damages, the status of the rile is fixed for past as well as future
transactions under it.
Where a rule is found discriminatory by the Commission in the circumstances indicated in the last preceding paragraph, a shipper,
though not a party before the Commission, cannot recover from
the carrier for its failures to obey the rule before the finding was
made.
241 Pa. St. 509, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Francis I. Gowen and Mr. John G, Johnson, with
whom Mr. F. D. McKenney was on the brief, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. A. M. Liveright and Mr. A. L. Cole for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
In a state court in Pennsylvania the'coal company recovered a judgment against the railroad company for
damages resulting, as was claimed, from unjust discrimination practiced in the distribution of coal cars in times
of car shortage; and the Supreme Court of the State
affirmed the judgment. 241 Pa. St. 509.
The suit related to both intrastate and interstate commerce, and whether, in respect'of the latter, it could be
brought in a state court consistently with the Interstate
Commerce Act is the first question presented.
The coal company was engaged in coal mining on the
carrier's line in Pennsylvania and was shipping the coal
to points in that and other States. Other coal companies
were engaged in like operations in the same district. A

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

rule of the carrier provided for a pro rata distribution of
the available supply of coal cars in times of car shortage,
but did not require or contemplate that individual cars,
owned or controlled by the shipper, should be charged
against his distributive share. Without questioning the
reasonableness of this rule, but, on the contrary, assuming
that it was unobjectionable and became the true measure
of the shipper's right and the carrier's duty, the coal company claimed that the carrier had unjustly discriminated
against it to its damage by furnishing it a smaller number
of cars, and some of its competitors a greater number,
than the rule contemplated or permitted. In other words,
the claim was, not that the rule was discriminatory, but
that it was violated or unequally enforced by the carrier.
Of such a suit we said in Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Puritan
Coal Mining Co., 237 U. S. 121, 131-132, where the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act were extensively
considered: "There is no administrative question involved,
the courts being called on to decide a mere question of
fact as to whether the carrier has violated the rule to
plaintiff's damage. Such suits though against an interstate carrier for damages arising in interstate commerce,
may be prosecuted either in the state or Federal courts."
Adhering to this view, we think the suit was properly
brought in a state court. See Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
Sonman Shaft Coal Co., ante, 120.
But it is suggested that in the course of the trial an
administrative question-one which the act intends the
Interstate Commerce Commission shall. solve-was
brought into the suit and 'that this disabled the court from
proceeding to a decision upon the merits. The suggestion
is grounded upon the fact that one of the carrier's defenses
at the trial was to the effect that the rule invoked by the
coal company as fixing its quota of the cars was unjustly
discriminatory and therefore not an appropriate test of
the shipper's right or the carrier's duty. We think the

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. CO. v. STINEMAN COAL CO. 301
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

suggestion is not well taken. The administrative question,
which was whether the rule was reasonable or otherwise,
was not then an open one. It had been theretofore determined in the mode contemplated by the act. Upon
the complaint of other shippers, and after a full hearing,
the Commission had found that the rule was unjustly discriminatory and had directed the carrier to give no further
effect to it. See 19 I. C. C. 356, 392; 23 ibid. 186. This
was shown by the reports and orders of the Commission,
which were produced in evidence. Thus there was no
jurisdictional obstacle at this point.
The Commission deemed it essential to a fair distribution in times of car shortage that individual cars, owned
or controlled by the shipper, should be charged against his
distributive share, and because the rule here took no account of such cars the Commission found that it was unjustly discriminatory. This occurred two years before
the trial but after the period covered by the suit. As
part of its defense the carrier claimed that the cars distributed to the coal company during that period included
many individual cars controlled by the latter and that
these were not charged against its distributive share.
Evidently intending to recognize that this was so, and
desiring to shorten the trial, the parties agreed that a
verdict should be taken for the coal company in a designated sum, subject to the condition, among others, that,
"if under the practice, the law and the rules," the court
should conclude that "the plaintiff company should have
been charged with individual cars," then judgment should
be entered for the carrier non obstante veredicto. The verdict was taken and judgment entered thereon, the court
concluding that the rule should be respected notwithstanding the Commission's finding. Complaint is made
of this decision' and we think it was wrong. That this
shipper was not a party to the proceeding before the Commission hardly needs notice, no point being made of it in

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the briefs. And it is not a valid objection that the finding
came after the period to which the suit relates. The act
contemplated that the proceeding should be conducted
in the interest of all the shippers who had been, or were
likely to be, affected by the rule, and not merely in the
interest of those who filed the complaint. The purpose
was to determine the character of the rule for the equal
benefit of all, to the end not only that discrimination thereunder in the future might be prevented, but also that such
discrimination in the past might be redressed. So understanding the act, the Commission, upon finding the rule
unjustly discriminatory, ordered the carrier to cease giving
effect to it and also recognized that shippers who had been
injured through its operation in the past were entitled to
reparation. And the Commission proceeded to award
reparation to such shippers as appeared and adequately
proved their injury and the amount of damages sustained.
Not only so, but the Commission's report makes it plain
that the finding was not based upon any temporary or
changeable condition existing at the time but upon what
inhered in the rule and therefore was true from the time
of its adoption. The legal propriety of the Commission's
finding is not questioned, but only that it operates to
discredit the carrier's rule as respects earlier transactions.
In the circumstances stated we are of opinion that effect
must be given to the Commission's finding, even though
it came after the transactions in question, and that a recovery by the coal company cannot be permitted without
departing from the uniformity and equality of treatment
which the act is intended to secure. Only through an enforcement of the discriminatory rule, and of the particular
feature which made it discriminatory, can a recovery be
had. A right to recover independently of that is neither
shown nor claimed. In short, the coal company concedes
that it received all the cars to which it would have been
entitled under a reasonable rule and yet seeks to recover

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WELSH.
242 U. S..

303

Opinion of the Court.

upon the ground that more cars were not delivered to it
under a rule which was unreasonable, because unduly discriminatory in its favor. Consistently with the act this
cannot be done.
Judgment reversed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. WELSH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.
No. 29.

Argued October 25, 1916.-Decided December 18, 1916.

That a case may be within the Federal Employers' Liability Act
(c. 149, 35 Stat. 65), it is essential that the person injured be employed at the'time of injury in some task of interstate commerce;
mere expectation of such employment is not enough. So held where
the employee, subject to be employed in either interstate or intrastate conunerce as directed by a superior, was injured while in quest
of orders, and, but for the injury, would have received orders requiring him immediately to make up an interstate train.
In cases brought here under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the
rule obtains that, in the absence of manifest error, this court will
not disturb concurrent findings of state trial and appellate courts
that the evidence of employment in interstate commerce was, insufficient to go to the jury.
89 Ohio St. 81, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leroy A. Manchester, with whom Mr. C. D. Hine,
Mr. James B. Kennedy and Mr. John W. Ford were on

the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William R. Stewart for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of Ohio (89 Ohio St. 81) affirmed a
circuit court judgment which sustained a judgment re-

