OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the'Case.

242 U. S.

KNAUTH, NACHOD & KUHNE v.- LATHAM &
COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

JAFFE ET AL., SURVIVING MEMBERS OF THE
FIRM OF KNAUTH, NACHOD & KUHNE, v.
LOVELL, AS CUSTODIAN, &c., AND AS TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY OF KNIGHT, YANCEY
& COMPANY, ET AL.
JAFFE ET AL., SURVIVING MEMBERS OF THE
FIRM OF KNAUTH, NACHOD & KUHNE, v.,
WESTPHALEN ET AL.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.

Nos. 98, 259, 260.

Submitted November 13, 1916.-Decided January 8,
1917.

A bill seeking to impress a trust upon personal property belonging to a
bankrupt's estate, upon the theory that it was procured by means of
moneys of which the plaintiff was defrauded by the bankrupt, must
trace such moneys by adequate averments into the specific property
sought to be affected.
Claimants seeking priority of payment from a bankrupt's estate upon
the ground that moneys obtained from them fraudulently by the
bankrupt went into his business and swelled the estate, must go to the
bankruptcy court in which the estate is being administered; such
claims are not adjudicable in suits for the recovery of the bankrupt's
property in other jurisdictions.
219 Fed. Rep. 721, affirmed.
THE

cases are stated in the opinion.

KNAUTH, NACHOD & KUHNE v. LATHAM & CO. 427
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Julien T. Davies, Mr. Thomas M. Stevens, Mr. W.
H. Watson and Mr. George T. Hogg for petitioners and
appellants.
Mr. Walker B. Spencer and Mr. Charles Payne Fenner
for Latham & Company et al.
Mr. Augustus Benners for Lovell.
Mr. Henry P. Dart, Mr. E. C. Maxwell and Mr. Henry
P. Dart, Jr., for appellees in No. 260.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDs delivered the opinion of the
court.
NUMBER

98.

Knight, Yancey and Company were duly adjudged
bankrupts in the District Court, Northern District of
Alabama, April 21, 1910. A few days later, in conjunction
with a firm creditor, the receivers brought suit in the
United States Circuit Court, Fifth Circuit, Southern
District of Alabama, against Latham and Company, a
French partnership, Frederick Leyland Steamship Company, Limited, Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company
and others, seeking to recover 4200 bales of cotton about
to be exported from Mobile, upon the ground that while
insolvent the bankrupts had transferred it to Latham and
Company in payment of prior indebtedness and with
intent to prefer them. After being taken into possession
by the United States Marshal, by order of court, the cotton was released, May 14, 1910, to Latham and Company,
who executed a bond conditioned, "Now, therefore, if the
obligors herein shall have forthcoming and deliver within
sixty days from date of any final decree of this court said
cotton to the proper officer of the court, or shall pay and
satisfy such decree as may be rendered in the premises,
then this obligation shall be null and void, otherwise to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

remain in full force and effect." Later the trustee in
bankruptcy was substituted as complainant.
July 1, 1910,-Knauth, Nachod and Kuhne filed in the
cause a so-called cross bill, subsequently amended, which
on motion was dismissed both for want of equity upon its
face and because the court lacked jurisdiction to entertain
it. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed this action.
The amended cross bill is a mass of prolix and vagrant
statements and allegations from which it is difficult to
spell out any very definite theory. Apparently because
$98,000-approximate market value of 1300 bales of
cotton-had been fraudulently obtained from Knauth,
Nachod and Kuhne by the bankrupts and used by them
in their business, the former sought to impress a trust
upon what the latter thereafter acquired, including the
4200 bales of cotton found at Mobile.
The allegations of the bill are wholly inadequate to
trace the funds into any specific cotton, Peters v. Bain, 133
U. S. 670, 693; and the cross bill must be regarded as an
attempt to secure from the estate priority of payment on
account of money fraudulently obtained by the bankrupts
and put into their business. Manifestly such a proceeding
could not be entertained in the Southern District of
Alabama. The estate was being administered in another
court. Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S.8; Jones v. Springer,
226 U. S. 153; Acme Harvester Company v. Beekman
Lumber Company, 222 U. S.300; Lazarus v. Prentice, 234
U. S.267; Jaffe v. Weld, 208 N. Y. 593.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.
NUMBER 259.

The record contains the amended bill of complaint;
motions to dismiss with objections thereto; final judgment
of dismissal for want of jurisdiction; assignment of errors,

etc.

KNAUTH, NACHOD & KUHNE v. LATHAM & CO. 429
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Shortly after Knight, Yancey and Company were adjudged bankrupts, upon application of the receivers
(May, 1910), the United States District Court, Northern
District of Florida, enjoined the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad from removing or disposing of 3600 bales of
cotton in its possession at Pensacola; and in June thereafter the duly selected trustee instituted suit seeking to
recover possession of the cotton upon the ground that it
had been transferred with intent to prefer. By the court's
direction 2635 bales were thereafter delivered to Latham
and Company who claimed' them as owners, a forthcoming
bond having been given. The remainder-965 bales-was
sold and proceeds deposited in the First National Bank of
Pensacola to await final orders.
Subsequently appellants instituted an original proceeding claiming that the bankrupts had fraudulently
obtained from them $98,000 and invested it in this or
other cotton or otherwise, and that they were entitled to
impress a trust upon the avails of such funds.
The involved and erratic allegations are wholly inadequate to show
sufficient definiteness that the
funds were invested in the cotton at Pensacola; and the
bill must be considered as an attempt to secure priority
of payment out of the bankrupts' estate upon the theory
that it was increased by appellants' money. There was
no jurisdiction to entertain such a proceeding in the
District Court in Florida; and the judgment below is accordingly
Affirmed.
-with

NUMBER 260.

The record also consists of the amended bill, filed
April 20, 1914; motions to dismiss with objections thereto;
final judgment of dismissal for want of jurisdiction; assignments of error, etc.
At the instance of the receivers of Knight, Yancey and

O

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Syllabus.

242 U. S.

Company, May, 1910, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad was enjoined by the United States District Court,
Northern District of Florida, from removing or disposing
of 1950 bales of cotton then in its possession at Pensacola,
Florida, and claimed by Westphalen and Company.
Afterwards that firm instituted an original suit to recover,
pending which, under agreement, the cotton was sold and
the proceeds deposited in two banks at Pensacola subject
to final judgment. The proceedings were substantially
the same as in Number 259 and like action was taken by
the court. The judgment below is
Affirmed.

FURNESS, WITHY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
v. YANG-TSZE
INSURANCE ASSOCIATION,
LIMITED, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FO

THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 106.

Argued December 18, 19, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

Petitions for writs of certiorari are at 'the risk of the parties making
them, and whenever in the progress of the cause facts develop which
if disclosed on the application would have induced a refusal, the
court may upon motion by a party or ex mero motu dismiss the writ.
Such petitions should be carefully prepared, contain appropriate
references to the record, and present with studied accuracy, brevity
and clearness whatever is essential to ready and adequate understanding of points requiring the court's attention.
When the real situation is not set forth by the petition, a duty rests oi
opposing counsel to reveal it in their reply.
Writ of certiorari to review 215 Fed. Rep. 859, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

