BALTIMORE & OHIO R. R. CO. v. WHITACRE.
242 U. S.

169

Statement of the Case.

the fees collected under the motor vehicle law exceeded the
amount required to defray the expense of maintaining the
r~gulation and inspection department. But the Maryland
statute, like that of New Jersey, contemplated that there
would be such excess and provided that it should be applied to the maintenance of improved roads. And it was
expressly recognized that the purpose of the Maryland
law "was to secure some compensation for the use of
facilities provided at great cost from the class for whose
needs they are essential and whose operations over them
are peculiarly injurious."
The judgment should be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
WHITACRE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.
No. 7i.

Argued November 7, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

In the absence of clear and palpable error,, this court will not disturb
the concurrent findings of state trial and appellate courts upon the
mere sufficiency of the evidence concerning negligence and assumption of risk in a case under the Employers' Liability Act.
Certain requests for instructions are here held rightly refused because
of deficiencies in recitals of facts.
124 Maryland, 411, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Mr. Duncan K. Brent and Mr. George A. Pearre, with
whom Mr. A. Hunter Boyd, Jr., and Mr. Geo. E. Hamilton
were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank A. Perdew and Mr. Albert A. Doub for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Whitacre, a freight train brakeman, while walking
through a railroad yard on a dark and foggy night, fell
into a water cinder pit and was seriously injured. He
brought suit under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
of April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, in a state court and
recovered a verdict. Exceptions were taken to certain
refusals to rule. The Court of Appeals of Maryland affirmed the judgment of the court below. 124 Maryland,
411.
It appeared at the trial that, although the pit was of
modern construction and well adapted to the purpose for
which it was constructed, it was not protected by a guard
rail. There was testimony that at the time of the accident
certain lights alleged to have been provided about the
pit were not lighted; that it had been raining; and that
the top of the water was covered to some extent with
ashes which made it difficult to distinguish the surface
of the pit from solid ground. It was admitted that Whitacre was engaged in interstate commerce. The defences
relied upon were assumption of risk and denial of negligence.
The defendant (plaintiff in error) requested a peremptory instruction in its favor, on the ground that there was
not sufficient evidence to entitle the plaintiff to recover.
The appellate court was unanimous in holding that the
trial court had properly left the case to the jury. No

KRYGER v. WILSON.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

clear and palpable error is shown which would justify us
in disturbing that ruling. Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Padgett, 236 U. S. 668, 673; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp,
240 U. S. 464, 466. The defendant further complains
that the trial court refused to give certain instructions on
the issues of negligence and assumption of risk. These
instructions were properly refused; because in each instance the recital therein did not include all the facts
which the jury was entitled to consider on the issues presented and concerning which there was some evidence.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

KRYGER v. WILSON ET AL., ADMINISTRATORS. 1
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NORTH
DAKOTA.

No. 99.

Submitted November 13, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Whether the cancellation of a land contract is governed by the law
of the situs or the law of the place of making and performance is a
question of local common law with which this court is not concerned
in a case coming from a state tribunal.
In a suit in a state court to quiet. title to land within its jurisdiction, a
resident of another State voluntarily appeared and, as defendant
and counterclaimant, asserted his right to possession and control
of the land under a contract of sale. The court adjudged that his
rights under the contract were gone as the result of statutory pro'The title of this case, as originally docketed, was "Henry H.
Kryger, plaintiff in error, v. Edward H. Wilson." On October 9, 1916,
the death of Edward H. Wilson was suggested and the appearance of
Ida S. Wilsor and J. E. Davis, administrators, as the parties defendant
in errr,. was. filed and entered.

