CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

INTER-ISLAND STEAM NAVIGATION COMPANY,
LIMITED, v. WARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 638.

Motion to dismiss and for damages submitted October 9, 1916.Decided October 30, 1916.

A writ of error will not lie from this court to review a judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in a case presenting neither diversity of
citizenship nor federal question, which was taken to that court
from the Supreme Court of Hawaii, pursuant to Judicial Code, § 246,
as amended by the Act of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat. 803, c. 22, upon
the basis of pecuniary amount alone.
Judicial Code, § 241, empowering this court to review judgments of
Circuit Courts of Appeals "not made final by the provisions of this
Title," etc., held inapplicable.
THE case is stated in the opinion. For the opinion of
the Circuit Court of Appeals see 232 Fed. Rep. 809.

Mr. E. A. Douthitt for defendant in error, in support
of the motion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Mr. E. W. Sutton and Mr. William 0. Smith for plaintiff
in error, in opposition to the motion.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of

the court.
On writ of error prosecuted from the court below to a
judgment of the Supreme Court of Hawaii rendered in
a case where there was no federal question and no diversity of citizenship, the judgment was affirmed and the
case wa5 brought here. By a motion to dismiss, our jurisdiction is disputed and to dispose of it requires a consideration of § 246 of the Judicial Code as amended by
the Act of January 28, 1915, 38 Stat. 803, c. 22.
That amendment provides, first, that "Writs of error
and appeals from the final judgments and decrees of the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii and of the
Supreme Court of Porto Rico may be taken and prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the United States
in the same classes of cases, in which writs of error and
appeals from the final judgments and decrees of the highest court of a State in which a decision in the suit could
be had, may be taken and prosecuted to the Supreme
Court of the United States . . ." And this is immediately followed by a provision giving power to this
court to review by certiorari "in all other cases, civil or
criminal, in the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii
or the Supreme Court of Porto Rico." The next and
separate sentence which follows these provisions and
which concludes the amendment is this: "Writs of error
and appeals from the final judgments and decrees of the
supreme courts of the Territory of Hawaii and of Porto
Rico, wherein the amount involved, exclusive of
exceeds the value of $5,000, may be taken
costs,
and prosecuted in the circuit courts of appeals."
The arg=ment supporting jurisdiotion is tht a4 by tho

INTER-ISLAND STEAM NAV. ,CO. v WARD.
242 U. S.,

3

Opinion of the Court.

general provisions of the Judiciary Act of 1891, now embraced in § 241 of the Judiial Code, pow er exists in this
court to review by error or appeal the final decisions of
the circuit courts of appeals in all cases where the jurisdiction of the trial court did not depend upon diversity
of citizenship or where the case was not otherwise by provisions of law expressly made final in the circuit courts of
appeals, therefore power to review exists since this case
is not in one of the excepted classes. But the contention
overlooks the fact that from the beginning and continuously up to the adoption of the Amendment of 1915
appeals and writs of error to the supreme courts of Hawaii
and of Porto Rico were not left to be controlled by the
law generally applicable to courts of the United States
.as expressed in the Judiciary Act of 1891 or as found in
the provisions of the Judicial Code re-adopting that act,
but were governed by special provisions controlling the
subject-a purpose which is exemplified by the terms of
the Amendatory Act of 1915. This is plain when it is
considered that the two classes of cases enumerated in
the Amendment of 1915 were practically in the same terms
expressed in the prior acts which conferred reviewing jurisdiction in both classes exclusively upon this court and
that the only substantial change made by the amendatory
act was to take from this court the jurisdiction to review
in the second enumerated class and confer it upon the
Circuit Court of Appeals to which Hawaii belonged. And
indeed there is nothing in the context of the statute which
countenances the view that the statute intended to merely
take away the jurisdiction of this court in one class of
cases and at the same time to restore jurisdiction as to
the same class by means of a power conferred or contemplated to exist to review on error or appeal the judgments
and decrees of the Circuit Court of Appeals. Besides,
as the remedy intefided to be afforded by the Amendment
of 1915 was evidently the restricting of the jurisdiction

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

of this court to the end that the burden on its docket
might be lightened, we cannot construe that amendment
as frustrating the purpose which it was adopted to accomplish. American Security Co. v. District of Columbia, 224
U. S. 491, 495.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

CROSS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 78.

Submitted October 23, 1916.-Decided November 13, 1916.

Under the Naturalization Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 596, c. 3592,
fees may not rightfully be charged against the United States by a
clerk of a federal court for making triplicate copies of declarations
of intention, or for attaching the seal of the court thereto, pursuant
to the direction of the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization.
The Naturalization Act, by the affirmative provisions of §§ 12 and 13
defining duties and fees, and by the express prohibition against ad-

ditional charges, contained in § 21, precludes any right of the clerk
which might otherwise exist under Revised Statutes, § 828, to charge
fees against the United States for the services here in question.
50 Ct. Chms. 413, affirmed.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank B. Crosthwaite and Mr. E. F. Colladay for
appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the

opinion of

the court.
The question for decision is, did the court below err
in rejecting the claim of the plaintiff, who is the appellant,

