EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

property and that any departure from it violated the
plaintiff's rights under the Fourteenth Amendment. But
we already have said that the cases do not establish the
rUle supposed, and if they did something more would be
necessary before the plaintiff could come to this court.
Sauer v. New York, 206 V. S. 536, 547, 548; Chicago &
Alton R. R. Co. v. Tranbarger, 238 U. S. 67, 76.
Judgment affirmed.

EX PARTE UNITED STATES, PETITIONER.
PETITION

No. 11, Original.

FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.

Argued January 10, 11, 1916.-Decided December 4,
1916.

Mandamus, out of this court, is a proper repiedy for enforcing a criminal sentence where the District Court which passed it has defeated
its execution by an ultra vires order of suspension.
The proceeding should be directed to the District Judge, with a view
to the annulment of the order of suspension; not to the clerk with
a view to the issuance of a commitment in spite of it.
An accused person was duly sentenced in a District Court of the United
States pursuant to an act of Congress, and the court then immediately made an order that execution of the sentence be suspended
"during the good behavior of the defendant," the effect of whfch,
if sustained, would have been to exempt him permanently and ab
solutely from the punishment provided by the act and reflected in
the sentence. Held, that such a suspension-the legal equivalent
of an absolute and permanent refusal to impose any sentence under
the statute-was beyond the power of the court.
The Constitution assigns to the legislature the power to enact laws
defining crimes and fixing the degree and method of punishment;
to the judiciary the power to try offenses under those laws and
impose punishment within the limits and according to the methods
therein provided; to the executive the power to relieve from -the
punishment so fixed by law and so judicially ascertained and imposed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

242 U. S.

The power of Congress to fix punishment for crime includes the power,
by probation or other suitable legislation, to equip the courts in
advance with such latitude of discretion as will enable them to vary
and control the application of punishment to suit the exigencies of
each case, in accord with obvious considerations of humanity and
public well-being;
But the courts, albeit under the Constitution they are possessed inherently of a judicial, discretionary authority which is ample for
the wise performance of their duties in the trying of offenses and
imposing of penalties as the laws provide, have no inherent constitutional power to mitigate or avert those penalties by refusing to
inflict them in individual cases.
Semble, that, at common law, while the courts exercised a discretion to'
suspend either imposition or execution of sentence temporarily for
purposes and in ways consistent with the due enforcement of the
penal laws, so as to facilitate action by the pardoning power and
avoid miscarriages of justice, they neither possessed nor claimed
the power of permanent refusal to enforce them.
In weight and reason the decisions of the state courts deny the power
of suspension here in question.
The order of suspension, being essentially unconstitutional, may not
be sustained because it accords with a practice (of long standing
though intermittent and not universal) indulged for the highest
motives by many federal judges in Ohio and elsewhere.
The hardships and wrongs resulting from this practice and its annulment address themselves to .ae pardoning power; the evils which
the practice was designed to avoid may be remedied for the future
by appropriate legislation.
Under the exceptional circumstances of the case, this court, exercising
its discretion, to the end that ample time may be afforded for executive clemency or such other action as the situation may require,
directs that the writ of mandamus do not issue until the end of the
term, unless earlier requested by the United States.

UPON application of the Government, presented by the
Attorney General, a rule was made upon Honorable John
M. Killits, Judge of the District Court of the United States

for the Northern District of Ohio, directing that he
show cause why a writ of mandamus should not issue
requiring him to set aside the order described in the
opinion. The case was heard upon the Government's

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

.Argument for the United States.

petition, the respondent's return, and the Government's
reply. The facts are stated in the opinion.
The Attorney Generaland Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Wallace, with whom The Solicitor Generalwas on the briefs,
for the United Stat(s:
It is the function of the judiciary to hear and determine
cases and enforce determination by judicial process. The
District Courts and Judges derive their power from the
Constitution and the acts of Congress and from them
alone. Article III, § 2, limits it to "cases" and "controversies." Federal judges are sworn to "administer
justice" (Rev. Stat., § 712); and many sections of the
Revised Statutes and the Judicial and Penal Codes prove
by plain words that Congress expects the court and judge
to hear and determine, and enter final judgments, and to
carry those judgments into effect. The penal laws are
mandatory. In varying expression they prescribe that
punishment shall be inflicted. This direction is not
obeyed until the punishment has been actually enforced.
The power to pardon, including the power to reprieve
or commute, belongs to the Executive alone. United
States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128; Ex parte Wells, 18 How. 307;
Ex parte Garland,4 Wall. 333. The Laura, 114 U. s.411,
concerns only fines. If the power here in question appertain to the pardoning power, it cannot belong to the
court; if it be not a power of pardon, the court could only
acquire it through act of Congress or common law. See
Blackstone, Tucker's ed., Book IV, ch. xxxi, p. 397. Congress has never attempted to bestow such a power on the
District Courts or Judges. It has merely 'onferred A
limited power of parole on judges in the District of
Columbia (36 Stat. 864). If it had ever meant to confer so
wide a power, it would have said so plainly. There are
laws which provide for stay of execution on fines and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the United States.

242 U. S.

penalties in certain specific instances; for avoiding indefinite imprisonment on account of fines and costs; for
motions for new trials, motions in arrest of judgment, and
writs of error. Otherwise, the federal statutes evince a
plain intention that sentence must be prompt and execution likewise.
Section 722 of the Revised Statutes, even if applicable
to supply power, only operates where the federal laws
are deficient in details. And the common law, as modified,
'may only be resorted to under that section to govern in
the disposition of the case and the infliction of punishment.
To resort to the local law for means to avoid inflicting
punishment would offend § 722 as well as the related
federal laws generally. But even if resort were to be had
to the common law as modified, there is neither a common
law nor any statute of Ohio conferring the power here
involved. Courts have inherent power to suspend sentence while awaiting determination of some qiestion upon
the event of which depends the legal propriety of enforcing
sentence, this being essential to due administration of the
law. Arbitrary, capricious or indefinite suspension, on
the other hand, destroys the due administration of the
law, and transcends all inherent power. Cf. Kendall v.
United States, 12 Pet. 524; Porto Rico v. Rosaly, 227'U. S.
270; Interstate Commerce Commission v. Brimson, 154
U. S. 479. A capricious suspension of the imposition of
sentence is essentially a nonjudicial act, for it leaves the
convict lnjoying all his civil rights as well as immunity
from punishment. Though in a less degree, the same is
true of a capricious suspensign of execution. Each,. in
effect, involves an exercise of the pardoning power; for
while civil rights are not preserved or restored by a suspension of execution, no more are they by a commutation
of sentence by the President. Of- course, if a judge (after
sentence and commitment) were, to grant a parole under
authority of some valid act of Congress, he would then

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

be enforcing the law, because the parole would be a statutory element of every punishment.
This court has frequently intimated that it does not
consider it an inherent power of federal courts to capriciously stay proceedings upon their judgments or sentences. Ex parte Gordon, 1 Black, 503; United States v.
Mayer, 235 U. S. 55. ,
In Pointer v. United States, 151 U. S. 396, the question
whether authority existed to suspend sentence indefinitely
was mooted but not decided. The common law did not
allow it, and in this country the reasoning and the great
weight of the state decisions condemn it.
The contrary state decisions are based on misconceptions of the common law or for other reasons are unsatisfactory. They relate almost entirely to delays in imposing
sentence rather than suspension of execution. Of the
cases usually referred to as supporting the power [citing
decisions from New York, Michigan, New Jersey, New
Hampshire, North Carolina, Florida, Massachusetts,
Maine, California, Pennsylvania and Ohio] all save Weber
v. State, 58 Ohio St. 616, and State v. White, 117 N. Car.
806, involve only postponement of the imposition of
sentence. The expression in Weber v. State, supra,' is a
dictum.
Even a decision by the Ohio court would not bind this
court upon a question of inherent or common-law powers.
See Wells on Jurisdiction of Courts, §§ 208, 304; Smith v.
Alabama, 124 U. S. 465; Ex parte Wells, 18 How. 310.
Further as to the Ohio view see State v. Baker, 3 Ohio
N. P. Rep. N. S. 624; 6 Page & Adams Anno. Ohio General
Code, note, § 13698, p. 644; Sterling v. Drake, 29 Ohio St.
457; Ohio v. Radcliffe (Ct. Common Pleas, Franklin
County), Ohio Law Bulletin, November 15, 1915.
The court may not judicially notice what the lower
federal courts have done in similar cases. From the return and reply thereto, however, enough conceded facts

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Respondent.

242 U. S.

appear to show that (1) the practice'never was alike in
all parts of the United States; (2) within single States, the
practice, in some cases, ctiffered in different. districts;
(3) within a single district the practice at one period would
be one way and at another period the other way; (4) many
judges exercised the function without any claim of right
other than the right of necessity, some even admitting
their lack of power; (5) after 1891 and 1894, respectively,
whenever exercised, it was in the face of the Wilson Case,
46 Fed. Rep. 748, and the PointerCase, 151 U. S. 396, 420;
and (6) it was always done in the face of statutes prescribing the punishment for crimes, and the established principle of public policy that offenders against the law should
suffer its penalties. This practice being neither genbral
nor consistent nor conformable to statutes or constitution, cannot be considered. United States v. Buchanan,
8 How. 82; Thompson v. Riggs, 5 Wall. 663; United States
v. Macdaniel, 7 Pet. 1; Basey v. Gallagher, 20 Wall. 670.
The Midwest Oil Company Case, 236 U. S. 459, is readily
distinguished.
Humanitarian arguments do not touch the question of
power or affect the necessity of preserving the Constitution. Ample relief may be afforded by enlarging the
general parole law (36 Stat. 819). Judicial suspension
opposes teachings of advanced criminology, with which
the Government is in entire sympathy.
The respondent, Hon. John M. Killits, in his return to
the rule to show cause and in a memorandum prepared
by him in support thereof claimed: That the power of
the court may be exercised broadly either by deferring
the imposition or suspending the execution of sentence
if such step seems consonant with the best interests of
society-as where the minimum penalty named in a
statute is disproportionate to the criminality involved in
the particular offense, or where the law may be vindicated

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

and the individual saved, consistently. In a detailed
statement, accompanied by much argament and illustration, the benefits accruing from the practice, in convenience of administration, in justice to the offender, and
in the upbuilding of society, were eloquently set forth,
together with reasons for believing that no adequate substitute may be provided.
In discussing the question in its legal and constitutional
aspects, he dwelt particularly upon the practice of many
federal courts and judges and the acquiescence of the
Governrment generally. Also upon the common law and
the. practice in Ohio.
Local practice is significant of the common-law power.
In Ohio the inherent power of the state court to suspend
execution is no longer open to question. Weber v. State,
58 Ohio St. 616; State v. Whiting, 83 Ohio St. 447. In
all discussion of the subject, judicial and lay, it is conceded that the power in both aspects existed in the
common-law courts in 1787. See 49 American Law Review, 709, 713; Gehrmann v. Osborne, 79 N. J. Eq. 430, 441.
Mr. Edwin J. Marshall for respondent:
The power existed at common law. Hale's Pleas of
the Crown, Vol. I, pp. 367, 19, 26- Vol. II, pp. 412, 401,
309, 35; Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown, Vol. II, ch. 51, § 8;
ch. 33, § 144; ch. 6, § 8; ch. 15, §§ 40, 65; 1 Chitty's Crim.
Law, ch. xix, p. 757; 2 Dyer; 235a; 2 Dyer, 205a; 2 Dyer,
165a. Although these authorities, confessedly, leave in
some doubt whether indefinite suspension was a commonlaw power, they tend strongly to uphold it. Reprieves
were either ex arbitriojudicis or ex necessitate legis. The
latter covered all cases now dealt with by temporary suspensions, as for insanity, pregnancy, etc. The former
seem to have applied whenever it appeared that injustice
would result from conviction or execution. This power
was an implied common-law exception to the statutory

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Respondent.

242 U. S.

duty to punish. -Courts reprieved before and after judgment, to allow opportunity to apply for pardon and for
other reasons inconsistent with a strict and invariable
duty to punish. If sentences could be suspended for
limited times in avoidance of injustices, why not indefinitely? Hale says reprieves were granted after conviction of small felonies as well as on capital convictions, and
the cases in Dyer show that the justices controlled the
execution of judgments. See further Queen v. Richardson,
8 Dowling's Practice Cases, 511 (1840); Regina v. Ryan,
7 Cox Crim. Cas. 109 (1855); 9 American Law Review, 600
(1875); King v. Inhabitantsof Wandsworth, 1 Barn.'& Aid.
63 (1817); Rex v. Inhabitants of Southampton, 2 Chitty,
215 (1818). But see. also King v. Inhabitantsof the County
of Oxford, 13 East. 411 (1811). The power might have
had its origin in the "law of nature" conception (Blackstone Comm., Intro., § 2). It is consistent with the duty to
"administer justice." While modern decisions, based on
these common-law authorities, disagree in their interpretations (see Gehrmann v. Osborne, 79 N. J. Eq. 430
(1911); Peop ex rel. Forsyth v. Court of Sessions, 141
N. Y. 288 (1894)), long and continuous exercise by state
and federal judges affords the best reason for believingthat the power existed at common law. State v. Crook,
115 N. Car. 760 (1894). The exercise may have been
common in England and yet no records made in the ancient reports, just as it has been frequent here in the federal practice though evidenced by barely a reported case.
Analysis of the decisions of the various States and
Territories shows that some courts affirm the power
broadly, others only as to imposition of sentence, others
deny it in toto, and some, while they-disown it in words,
have applied it indirectly where justice demanded., Some
base the denial on the executive power of pardon. The
distinction between the power to delay imposing sentence
and the power to suspend execution is illusory in reason,

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

and not recognized at common law. Many state decisions
uphold the one power and some uphold the other also.
The following cases in this court have some bearing:
United States v. Pile, 130 U. S. 280; Pointer v. United
States, 151 U. S. 396; Ex parte Wells, 18 How. 307; United
States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150; Whisky Cases, 99 U. S. 594;
Nobles v. Georgia, 168 U. S. 398. The power was exercised
in United States v. Gilbert, Fed. Cas. No. 15,205; and (in
principle) in United States v. Blaisdell, 3 Benedict, 132.
If the power does not exist in the courts, by parity the
District Attorneys may not nolle indictments, the courts
may not impose concurrent sentences, and neither may
grant immunity to accomplices who testify. None of.
these court powers is derived from statute. All rest on
practice and general acquiescence and the judicial duty
to administer justice with humanity. If it be true that
the power of suspension was limited at common law, it
has grown with the changes in our institutions, and in
our attitude toward the criminal. Its origin was judicial,
not regal, as some courts say. In either event it inheres
in the common-law conception of "courts," intended
when that word appears in constitution and statute. If
the practice has become a custom, the custom may become
law even to the enlargement of judicial powers through
its influence on the construction of statutes. The acquiescence of the executive and legislative branches, and
the great evils which this, power alone can properly mitigate, should be considered.
The power is inherent in the federal courts. The word
"courts" in the Constitution carries the power if it existed at common law. That law (perhaps.as modified)
grafts the exception on all statutes imposing penalties.
See also Rev. Stat., § 722. If not inherent, it is at least
part of the courts' equipment until withdrawn by statute.
Howard v. United States, 75 Fed. Rep. 986; In re Henry,
123 U. S. 372. In no other way these courts have acquired

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Respondent.

242 U. S.

power to impose concurrent sentences.

United States v.

Patterson,29 Fed. Rep. 775; Kirkman v. McClaughry, 152
Fed. Rep. 255; Ex parte Peake, 144 Fed. Rep. 1016. Where
Congress is silent federal courts are under common-law
rules in administering criminal law. Howard v. United
States, 75 Fed. Rep. 986; United States v. Nye, 4 Fed. Rep.
888; Erwin v. United States, 37 Fed. Rep. 470; United
States v. Maxwell, 3 Dill. 275. [See also United States v.
Reid, 12 How. 361, 365, and Withaup v. United States,
(C. C. A.) 127 Fed. Rep. 530. REPORTER.] The power
to nolle comes in the same way.
The continuous exercise amounts to a construction of
the federal statutes supporting the power. Stuart v.
Laird, 1 Cranch, 299; McKeen v. Delancy's Lessee, 5
Cranch, 22; Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283; The
Laura, 114 U. S. 411; Bank of United States v. Halstead, 10
Wheat. 51; Atkins v. Fiber DisintegratingCo., 18 Wall. 272,
and other cases. The same principle sustains developments of the practice, for, if practice can construe, it may
also modify the constructions of, the statutes.
There is no intrusion on the pardoning power. The
two powers, judicial and regal, existed at common law
and we inherited the duality. Ex parte Wells, 18 How.
307; United States v. Wilson, 7 Pet. 150. Civil disabilities
are not removed by the court's action. People ex rel.
Forsyth v. Court of Sessions, 141 N. Y. 288; People v.
Stickle, 156 Michigan, 557; Spencer v. State, 125 Tennessee,
64; State v. Addy, 43 N. J. L. 113. The two powers are
harmonious. All branches of the Government have acquiesced. Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, holds that
general amnesty laws are allowable, and The Laura, 114
U. S. 411, that fines and penalties may be remitted by
subordinate officers under sanction of statute and long
practice and acquiescence.
The defendant may even have a right to a suspension
of sentence to apply for a pardon. Ex parte Wells, 18

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

How. 307; Allen v. State, Martin & Yerger, 294; Crane v.
State, 94 Tennessee, 98; State v. Chitty, 1 S. Car. (Bailey)
379; State v. Abbott, 87 $. Car. 466. It then becomes a
judicial duty to suspend sentence until pardon is refused.
By leave of court, a memorandum was submitted by
the New York State Probation Commission, and a brief
explaining and supporting the practice in the First Cir-cuit, by Mr. Richard W. Hale and Mr. Frank W. Grinnell.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The accused pleading. guilty to an indictmevit charging
him in several counts with embezzling the money of a
national bank of which he was an officer and making false
entries in its books in violation of § 5209, Revised Statutes,
was sentenced to imprisonment in the penitentiary for five
years, the shortest term which under the statute could
have been imposed upon him. At once at his request
over the objection of the United States District Attorney
the court ordered "that the execution of the sentence be,
and it is hereby suspended during the good behavior of
the defendant, and for the purpose of this case this term
of this court is kept open for five years." The United
States moved to set this order aside on the ground that
as it was not a mere temporary suspension of the sentence
to enable legal proceedings pending or contemplated to
revise it to be taken, or application for pardon to be made,
or any other legal relief against the sentence to be resorted
to, but on the contrary as it was a permanent suspension
based upon considerations extraneous to the legality of
the conviction or the duty to enforce the sentence, the
order of suspension was void as it was equivalent to a
refusal to carry out the statute. The motion was denied.
In the opinion giving its reasons for lso doing the court,
conceding that the suspension was permanent, stated the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

general considerations which it deemed it was required
to take into view in deciding whether the sentence should
be enforced, conceding the legality of the conviction and
sentence and their finality, as follows:
"Modern notions respecting the treatment of law
breakers abandon the theory that the imposition of the
sentence is solely to punish, and now the best thought
considers three elements properly to enter into the treatment of every criminal case after conviction. Punishment
in some measure is still the object of sentence, but affecting
its extent andcharacter we consider the effect of the situation upon the individual as tending to reform him from or
to confirm him in a.criminal career, and also the relation
his case bears to the community in the effect of the disposition of it upon others of criminal tendencies."
After pointing out the peculiar aptitude possessed by a
trial judge for the appreciation of such conditions and the
imperative duty which rested upon such judge to consider
and weigh the matters stated and to determine as an inherent attribute of judicial power whether a permanent
suspension of the term of imprisonment fixed by the statute should be ordered, the circumstances upon which it
was concluded that a permanent suspension should be
directed were stated in part as follows:
"We took into account the peculiar circumstances under
which his crime was committed, having regard to the
temptations which from time to time encompassed him,
and his personal necessities, and the purposes for which
his appropriations were made. Also, the fact that his
friends made his employers whole, and that otherwise he
had so commended himself to the favor of his employers
suffering by his crime, that they at all times as well as now
evince a disposition to forgive'his abuse of their confidence,
and to support him against the punishment which the law
provides. We find that otherwise than for this crime, his
disposition, character and habits have so strongly com-

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mended him to his friends, acquaintances and persons of
his faith, that they are unanimous in the belief that the
exposure and humiliation of his conviction are a sufficient
punishment, and that he can be saved to the good of
society if nothing further is done with him."
After further elaborating considerations of a like nature
and stating very many circumstances confirming those
mentioned, to leave no room for doubt that its action was.
intended to be permanent and was based alone on the
extraneous circumstances stated, the court said:
"Passing now to the concrete case, we observe for the
benefit of the United States that nothing. exists in this
case which moved the court to suspend the execution of
sentence to prevent 'an abuse of the court's process, or to
prevent an injustice being done to the defendant' so far
as it may be said that abstract justice required defendant
to suffer for his crime. However, we considered the
defendant from many standpoints to be as worthy of the
benefit of the discretion to suspend the execution of his
sentence as any other convict upon whom that favor has
hitherto been bestowed."
. Following a written demand which was thereafter made
upon the clerk to issue a commitment which was refused
by him on the ground that the sentence, had been suspeiided and the further refusal of the judge to, direct the
clerk to issue such commitment, the United States sought
and obtained a rule to show cause why a mandamus should
not be awarded directing the judge to vacate the order of
suspension, under which the subject is now before us for
consideration.
The remedial appropriateness of the writ of mandamus
is at the threshold questioned, but we dispose of the subject
by a mere reference to adjudged cases conclusively establishing the want of foundation for the contention.
Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wall. 364; Life & Fire Insurance
Company v. Wilson, 8 Pet. 291; In re Winn, 213 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

458; In re Metropolitan Trust Co., 218 U. S. 312; Ex parte
Metropolitan Water Company, 220 U. S. 539. In addition,
however, it is urged that as the right to resort to the extraordinary remedy by mandamus must rest upon the
assumption that the order of suspension was absolutely
void, therefore the rule for the writ should have been
directed not against the judge, but against the clerk to
compel him to issue the commitment, But we pass from
its consideration, as we are of opinion that its want of
merit will be completely demonstrated by the slightest
appreciation of the judicial duties of the court below and
the ministerial relation of the clerk of the court to the
same.
The return to the rule and the statement in support of
the same lucidly portray the contentions involved in the
question of power to be decided and the subject in all its
aspects has been elaborately discussed, not only by the
printed arguments of the parties, but in addition. light
has been thrown on the general question by an argument
submitted by the New York State Probation Commission,
explaining the statutory system of parole prevailing in
that State, and by an able argument presented by members
of the Bar of the First Circuit in behalf of a practice of
mitigating or pretermitting, when deemed necessary, the
statutory punishment for crimes which it is declared has
prevailed in the United States courts in that circuit for
many years.
The argument on behalf of the respondent concedes that
the order of suspension was permanent and absolutely
removed the accused from the operation of the punishment provided by the statute; and it is further conceded
that a suspension of this character was the equivalent of
an absolute and permanent refusal to impose under the
statute any sentence whatever. However absolute may
:be the right thus asserted, it is nevertheless said it is not
without limitation, since it may not be capriciously called

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

into play. Passing the question whether this assumed restriction is not in the nature of things imaginary as the
result of the scope of the authority asserted, let us come
to dispose of the contention made by examining the
propositions relied upon to sustain it.
They are: 1. That the right to refuse to impose a sentence fixed by statute or to refuse to execute such a sentence when imposed, is a discretion inhering in the judicial
power to try and punish violations of the criminal law.
2. That even if there be doubt on this subject as an original
proposition, such doubt is dispelled as the right was recognized and frequently exerted at common law. 3. That
the power claimed has also been recognized by decisions
of state courts and of United States courts of original
jurisdiction to such an extent that the doctrine is now to
be considered as not open to controversy. 4. That whatever may be the possibility of dispute as to this last view,
at least it cannot be denied that in both the state and
federal courts, over a very long period of time, the power
here asserted has been exercised often with the express,
and constantly with the tacit, approval of the administrative officers of the state and federal governments, and
has been also tacitly recognized by the inaction of the
legislative department during the long time the practice
has prevailed, to such an extent that the authority claimed
has in practice become a part of the administration of
criminal law both state and federal, not subject to be
now questioned or overthrown because of mere doubts of
the theoretical accuracy of the conceptions upon which
it is founded.
1. The contention as to inherent judicial power.
Indisputably under our constitutional system the right
to try offences against the criminal laws and upon conviction to impose the punishment provided by law is judicial,
and it is equally to be conceded that in exerting the powers
vested in them on such subject, courts inherently possess

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

ample right to exercise reasonable, that is, judicial, discretion to enable them to wisely exert their authority. But
these concessions afford no ground for the contention as to
power here made, since it must rest upon the proposition
that the power to enforce begets inherently a discretion
to permhanently refuse to do so. And the effect of the
proposition urged upon the distribution of powers made
by the Constitution will become apparent when it is observed that indisputable also is it that the authority to
define and fix the punishment for crime is legislative and
includes the right in advance to bring within judicial discretion, for the purpose of executing the statute, elements
of consideration which would be otherwise beyond the
scope of judicial authority, and that the right to relieve
from the punishment, fixed by law and ascertained according to the methods by it provided, belongs to the executive
department.
The proposition might well 'be left with the demonstration which results from these considerations, but the disregard of the Constitution which would result from sustaining the proposition is made if possible plainer by
considering that, if it be that the plain legislative command
fixing a specific punishment for crime is subject to be permanently set aside by an implied judicial power upon
considerations extraneous to the legality of the conviction,
it would seem necessarily to follow that there could be
likewise implied a discretionary authority to permanently
refuse to try a criminal charge because of the conclusion
that a particular act made crininal by law ought not to
be treated as criminal. And thus it would come to pass
that the possession by the judicial department of power to
permanently refuse to enforce a law would result in the
destruction of the conceded powers of the other departments and hence leave no law to be enforced.
2. The contention as to support for the proposition at
common law.

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The common law is thus stated in Hale's Pleas of the
Crown, vol. 2, chap. 58, p. 412:
"Reprieves or stays of judgment or execution are of
three kinds, viz:
"I. Ex mandato regis. .
"II. Ex arbitriojudicis. Sometimes the judge reprieves
before judgment, as where he is not satisfied with the verdict, or the evidence is uncertain, or the ijidictment insufficient, or doubtful whether within clergy; and sometimes after judgment, if it be a small felony, tho out of
clergy, or in order to a pardon or transportation. Crompt.
Just. 22, -b. and these arbitrary reprieves may be granted
or taken off by the justices of gaol-delivery, altho their
sessions be adjourned or finished, and this by reason of
common usage. Dy. 205 a.
"III. Ex necessitate legis, which is in case of pregnancy,
where a woman is convict of felony or treason."
Blackstone thus expresses it:
"The only other remaining ways of avoiding the execution of the judgment are by a reprieve or a pardon;
whereof the former is temporary only, the latter permanefit.
"I. A reprieve, from reprendre,to take back, is the withdrawing of a sentence for an interval of time; whereby the
execution is suspended. This may be, first, ex arbitrio
judicis; either before or after judgment; as, where the
judge is not satisfied with the verdict, or the evidence is
suspicious, or the indictment is insufficient, or he is doubtful whether the offence be within clergy; or sometimes if
it be a small felony, or any favourable circumstances
appear in the criminal's character, in order to give room to
apply to the crown for either .an absolute or conditional
pardon. These arbitrary reprieves may be granted or
taken off by the justices of gaol delivery, although their
session be finished, and their commission expired: but
this rather by common usage, than of strict right.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

"Reprieve may also be ex necessitate legis: as, where a
woman is capitally convicted, and pleads her pregnancy;
though this is no cause to stay the judgment, yet it is to
respite the execution till she be delivered. This is a mercy
dictated by the law of nature, in favorem prolis." (Book
IV, ch. xxxi, pp. 394-395.)
While it may not be doubted under the common law as
thus stated that courts possessed and asserted the right
to exert judicial discretion in the enforcement of the law
to temporarily suspend either the imposition of sentence
or its execution when imposed to the end that pardon
might be procured or that a violation of law in other
respects might be prevented, we are unable to perceive
any ground for sustaining the proposition that at common
law the courts possessed o, claimed the right which is
here insisted upon. No elaboration could make this
plainer than does the text of the passages quoted. It is
true that, owing to the want of power in common law courts
to grant new trials and to the absence of a right to review
convictions in a higher court, it is we think to be conceded:
(a) That both suspensions of sentence and suspensions
of the enforcement of sentence, temporary in character,
were often resorted to on grounds of error or miscarriage
of justice which under our system would be corrected
either by new trials or by the exercise of the power to review. (b) That not infrequently, where the suspension
either of the imposition of a sentence or of its execution
was made for the purpose of enabling a pardon to be
sought or bestowed, by a failure to further proceed in the
criminal cause in the future, although no pardon had been
sought or obtained, the punishment fixed by law was
escaped. But neither of these conditions serves to convert
the mere exercise of a judicial discretion to temporarily
suspend for the accomplishment of a purpose contemplated
by law into the existence of an arbitrary judicial power to
permanently refuse to enforce the law.

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And we can deduce no support for the contrary conten-

tion from the rulings in 2 Dyer, 165a, 205a and 235a,
since those cases but illustrate the exercise of the conceded,
reasonable, discretionary power to reprieve to enable a
lawful end to be attained. Nor from the fact that common
law courts possessed the power by recognizances to secure
good behavior, that is, to enforce the law, do we think any
support is afforded for the proposition that those courts
possessed the arbitrary discretion to permanently decline
to enforce the law. The cases of Rex v. Hart, 30 How.
State Trials, 1344, and Regina v. Dunn, 12 Q. B. 1026,
1041, certainly do not tend to so establish, since they simply manifest the exertion of the power of the courts after
a conviction and the suffering of the legal penalty to
exact from the convicted person a bond for his good behavior thereafter.
3. The support for the power asserted claimed to be derived from the adjudication of state and federal courts.

Coming first to the state courts, undoubtedly there is
conflict in the decisions. The area, however; of conflict
will be narrowed by briefly stating and contrasting the
cases. We shall do so by referring chronologically to the
cases denying the power, and then to those relied upon
to establish it.
In 1838 the Supreme Court of North Carolina in State
v. Bennett, 4 Dev. & Battle's Law, 43, was called upon to
decide whether a trial court had the right to permanently
remit upon condition a part of a criminal sentence fixed
by statute. The court said:
"We know that a practice has prevailed to some extent
of inflicting fines with the provision that they should be
diminished or remitted altogether upon matter thereafter
to be done, or shown to the Court by the person convicted.
But we can find no authority in law for this practice, and
feel ourselves bound, upon this first occasion when it is
brought judicially to our notice, to declare it illegal."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

In 1860 in People v. Morrisette, 20 How. -Pr. 118, an
accused after pleading guilty asked a suspension of sentence and to be then discharged from custody. The court
said:
"I am of the opinion the court does not possess the
power to suspend sentence indefinitely in. any case. As
I understand the law, it is the duty of the court, unless
application be made for a new trial, or a motion in arrest
of judgment be made for some defect in the indictment,
to pronounce judgment upon every prisoner convicted of
crime by a jury, or who pleads guilty. An indefinite
suspension of the sentence prescribed by law is a quasi
pardon, provided the prisoner be discharged from imprisonment. No court in the state has any pardoning power.
That power is vested exclusively in the governor."
In People v. Brown, 54 Michigan, 15, in deciding that
no power to permanently suspend a sentence existed,
speaking through Mr. Chief Justice Cooley, the court said:
"Now it is no doubt competent for a criminal court,
after conviction, to stay for a time its sentence; and many
good reasons may be 'suggested for doing so; such as to
give opportunity for a motion for a new trial or in arrest,
or to enable the judge to better satisfy his own mind what
the punishment ought to be: Commonwealth v. Dowdican's
Bail, 115 Mass. 133; but it was not a suspension of judgment of this sort that was requested or desired in this case;
it was not a mere postponement; it was not delay for any
purpose of better advising the judicial mind what ought
to be done; but it was an entire and absolute remission of
all penalty and the excusing of all guilt. In other words,
what was requested of the judge was that he should take
advantage of the fact that he alone was empowered to
pass sentence, and, by postponing indefinitely the performance of this duty indirectly but to complete effect
grant to the respondent a pardon for his crime."
And, considering the doctrine as to the want of power

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

thus expounded from the point of view of the common law
and of every argument here relied upon, state courts have
in the cases which are in the margin in careful opinions
denied the existence of the power now claimed. 1
The cases to the contrary are these, omitting one in a
court of original jurisdiction in Massachusetts referred
to by counsel but in which there is no written opinion:
In 1874 in Commonwealth v. Dowdican's Bail, 115 Massachusetts, 133, the right in a criminal case "to lay the
case on file" and postpone the sentence was sustained, the
court declaring that the practice had long existed, and was
recognized by statutes one of which regulated the granting
of parole by courts in liquor cases.
'People v. Kennedy, 58 Mich. 372 (1885); Gray v. State, 107 Ind. 177
(1886); People v. Blackburn, 6 Utah, 347 (1890); State v. Voss, 80 Ia.
467 (1890); People ex rel. Benton v. Court, 8 N. Y. Crim. Rep.' 355
(1892), affirmed in 66 Hun, 550 (i893); In re Strickler, 51 Kans. 700
(1893); People ex rel. Smith v. Allen, 155 Ill. 61 (1895); In re Markuson,
5 N. Dak. 180 (1895); In re Webb, 89 Wis. 354 (1895); United States
v. Folsom, 8 N. Mex. 651 (1896); State v. Murphy, 23 Nev. 390 (1897);
Neal v. State, 104 Ga. 509 (1898); Hawaiiv. Pedro, 11 Haw. 287 (1898);
In re Beck, 63 Kans. 57 (1901); Miller v. Evans, 115 Ia. 101 (1901);
People v. Barrett, 202 Il. 287 (1903); In re Flint, 25 Utah, 338 (1903);
State v. Dalton, 109 Tenn. 544 (1902); Grundel v. People, 33 Colo. 191
(1905); Tuttle v. Lang, 100 ie. 123 (1905); McCampbell v. State, 116
Tenn. 98 (1905); Ex parte St. Hilaire, 101 Me. 522 (1906); Tanner v.
Wiggins, 54 Fla. 203 (1907); State v. Hockett, 129 Mo. App. 639 (1908);
Ex parte Clendenning, 22 Okla. 108 (1908); Ex parte Cornwall, 223 Mo.
259 (1909); Wall v. Jones, 135 Ga. 425 (1910); State v. Smith, 173 Ind.
388 (1910); State ex rel. Cary v. Langum, 112 Minn. 121 (1910); Ex
parte Peterson, 19 Ida. 433 (1911); State v. Abbott, 87 S. Car. 466 (1911);
Spencer v. State, 125 Tenn. 64 (1911); State v. Sapp, 87 Kans. 740
(1912); Danielv. Persons, 137 Ga. 826 (1912); State v. Sturgis, 110 Me.
96 (1912); State v. Talberth, 109 Me. 575 (1912); Fuller v. State, 100
Miss. 811 (1911); Ex parte Bugg, 163 Mo. App. 44 (1912); Snodgrass
v. State, 150 S. W. (Texas) 162 (1912); Roberts v. Wansley, 137 Ga.
439 (1912); Hancock v. Rogers, 140 Ga. 688 (1913); Brabandt v. Commonwealth, 157 Ky. 130 (1914); Ex parte Hart, 29 N. Dak. 38 (1914);
Reese v. Olsen, 44 Utah, 318 (1914).

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

The case just cited was approvingly referred to in Sylvester v. State, 65 N. H. 193, and declared to express the
practice long prevailing in New Hampshire.
In 1894, in People ex rel. Forsyth v. Court of Sessions,
141 N. Y. 288, in holding that a trial court had power to
permanently suspend a sentence for reasons dehors the
legality of the conviction, it was declared that such power
existed at common law and hence prevailed in the State,
this being supported by a quotation from Hale's Pleas
of the Crown. In addition it was said, referring to a state
parole statutb enacted subsequent to the conviction, that
such statute, while it conferred no new or other power
than that possessed at common law, nevertheless imposed
the duty to see to it that the power was not lost to impose
future punishment after the release if the condition of
suspension was violated.
In the cases cited in the margin the power was upheld
upon the rulings in Commonwealth v. Dowdican's Bail,
suprd,and the Forsythe Case, supra, or because of a practice long prevailing.'
Leaving aside the question of the asserted duty to
sustain the doctrine because of the long established pracState v. Addy, 43 N. J. L. 113 (1881); People v. Mueller, 15 Chicago
Legal News, 364 (1883); Commonwealth v. Maloney, 145 Mass. 205
(1887); Ex parte Williams, 26 Fla. 310 (1890); State v. Crook, 115 N.
Car. 760 (1894); State v. Whitt, 117 N. Car. 804 (1895); People ex rel.
Dunnigan v. Webster, 14 Misc. (N. Y.) 617 (1895); Weber v. State, 58
Ohio St. 616 (1898); Shaefer v. Ohio, 7 Ohio Cir. Ct. (N. S.) 292 (1905);
In re Clara Lee, 3 Ohio N. P. (N. S.) 533 (1905); State v. Hilton, 151
N. Car. 687 (1909); State v. Drew, 75 N. H. 402 (1909); State v. Drew,
75 N. H. 604 (1910); Ex parte Hinson, 156 N. Car. 250 (1911); Gehrmann
v. Osborne, Warden, 79 N. J. Eq. 430 (1911) People v. Goodrich, 149
N. Y. Supp. 406 (1914); State v. Tripp, 168 N. Car. 150 (1914); State
v. Johnson, 169 N. Car. 311 (1915). See Green v. State, 88 Ark. 290
(1908); Joiner v. State, 94 Ark. 198 (1910); People v. Patrich, 118 Cal.
332 (1897); Commonwealth v. Nuber, 6 Pa. Super. Ct. Rep. 420 (1898);
Commonwealih v. Dunleavy, 16 Pa. Super. Ct. Rep. 380 (1901).

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tice, which we shall hereafter consider, we think it clear
that the long and settled line of authority to which we
have previously referred denying the existence of the
power is in no way weakened by the rulings which lie at
the basis of the cases relied upon to the contrary. In
the first place, on the face of the opinion in Commonwealth
v. Dowdican's Bail, supra, it would seem certain that that
case treated the power as being brought by the state
legislation which was referred to within the domain of
reasonable discretion, since by the effect of that legislation the right to exert such power, if not directly authorized, was at least by essential implication sanctioned by
the state law. In the second place, in so far as the Forsyth Case, supra, is concerned and its declaration as to
what was the common law upon the subject, the error
thus fallen into is not only demonstrated by what we have
said as to the common law, but is additionally shown by
the fact that the quotation from Hale's Pleas of the Crown
made in the opinion contains clauses supporting the opinion expressed as to the common law when in fact the
clauses in question, it would seem, were by some error of
citation mistakenly attributed to Hale. We say this because the clauses referred to and attributed to Hale in
the quotation are not found in any edition of the Pleas
of the Crown which we have been able to examine, and
it is stated by counsel for the United States that after
diligent search no passage containing the clauses has been
discovered, and the existence of any edition of the work
containing them is not pointed out by opposing counsel.
But whether this be well founded or not, as the conclusion
concerning the common law which the case expressed is
we think obviously unsound, we are unable on the authority of such a mistaken view to disregard the long
established and sound rule laid down in the many state
cases which we have quoted.
So far as the courts of the United States are concerned,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

it suffices to say that we have been referred to no opinion
maintaining the asserted power, and on the contrary in
the opinion in the only case in which the. subject was considered it was expressly decided the power was wanting.
United States v. Wilson, 46 Fed. Rep. 748 (1891). It
is true that in the District of Columbia the existence of
the power was maintained. Miller V. United States, 41
App. D. C. 52 (1913). But the unsoundness of the
grounds upon which the conclusion was based is demonstrated by what we have previously said; and aside from
this, as the subject was covered by an Act of Congress
conferring power of parole (Act of July 25, 1910, 36 Stat.
864), the case requires no further consideration.
4. The duty to recognize the power as lawful because of its
exertion,in practice by the state and federal courts and the implications arising therefrom.
There is no doubt that in some States, without reference
to probation legislation or an affirmative recognition of
any doctrine supporting the power, it was originally exerted and the right to continue to do so came to be recognized solely as the result of the prior practice. Gehrmann
v. Osborne, Warden, 79 N. J. Eq. 430.
As to the courts of the United States, in one of the circuits, the first, especially in the Massachusetts district,
it is admitted the practice has in substance existed for
probably sixty years as the result of a system styled "laying the case on file." The origin of this system is not explained, but it is stated in the brief supporting the practice that courts of the United States have considered the
existing state laws as to probation and have- endeavored
in a certain manner to conform their action thereto. It
is true also, that in the courts of the United States, sometimes in one or more districts in a circuit and sometimes
in other circuits, in many instances the power here asserted was exerted, it would seem without any question,
there being no objection raised by the representatives of

EX PARTE UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

51

Opinion of the Court.

the United States; indeed it is said that in Ohio where the
power, as we have seen, was recognized as existing, it was
exerted by Mr. Justice Matthews of this court when sitting at circuit, and there and elsewhere, it is pointed out,
the power was also exerted in some instances by other
judges then or subsequently members of this court. But
yet it is also true that, numerous as are the instances of
the exertion of the power, the practice was by no means
universal, many United States judges, even in a district
where the power had been exerted, on a change of incumbency persistently refusing to exert the power on the
ground that it was not possessed. Indeed so far was this
the case that we think it may be said that the exertion .of
the power under the circumstances stated was intermittent
and was not universal but partial.
As amply shown by the case before us, we think also it
is apparent that the situation thus described was brought
about by the scrupulous desire of judges not to abuse
their undoubted discretion as to granting new trials,
and yet to provide a remedy for conditions in cases where
a remedy was called for in the interest of the administration of the criminal law itself, as well as by the most
obvious considerations of humanity and public wellbeing,--conditions arising in the nature of things from
the state of proof in cases coming before them which could
not possibly have been foreseen and taken into considera'tion by the law-making mind in fixing in advance the
penalty to be imposed for a particular crime. And the
force of this conclusion will become more manifest by
considering that nowhere except sporadically was any
objection made to the practice by the prosecuting officers
of the United States, who indeed it is said not infrequently
invoked its exercise. Albeit this is the case, we can see no
reason for saying that we may now hold that the right
exists to continue a practice which is-inconsistent with the
Constitution, since its exercise in the very nature of things

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

4mounts to a refusal by the judicial power to perform a
duty resting upon it and, as a consequence thereof, to an
interference with both the legislative and executive authority as fixed by the Constitution. The fact that it is
said in argument that many persons, exceeding two
thousand, are now at large who otherwise would be imprisoned as the result of the exertion of the power in the
past, and that misery and anguish and miscarriage of
justice may come to many innocent persons by now declaring the practice illegal, presents a grave situation.
But we are admonished that no authority exists to cure
wrongs resulting from a violation of the Constitution in
the past, however meritorious may have been the motive
giving-rise to it, by sanctioning a disregard of that instrument Jn the future. On the contrary, so, far as wrong
resulting from an attempt to do away with the consequences of the mistaken exercise of the power in the past
is concerned, complete remedy may be afforded by' the
exertion of the pardoning power; and so far as the future
is concerned, that is, the causing of- the imposition of
penalties as fixed to be subject, by probation legislation
or such other means as the legislative mind may devise,
to such judicial discretion as may be adequate to enable
courts to meet by the exercise of an enlarged but wise
discretion the infinite variations which may be presented
to them for judgment, recourse must be had to Congress
whose legislative power on the subject is in the very nature of things adequately complete.
While the conclusions just stated inevitably exact
that the rule which is before us be made absolute and that
the mandamus issue, nevertheless we are -of opinion that
the exceptional conditions which we have described require that we exercise that reasonable discretion .with
which we are vested to temporarily suspend the issue of
the writ, so as to afford ample time for executive clemency
or such other action as may be required to meet the sit-

LEHON v. CITY OF ATLANTA.
242 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

uation. And for this purpose the issue of the writ will
be stayed until the end of this term, unless the United
States otherwise requests, when it will go as a matter of
course.
Rule made absolute.

LEHON v. CITY OF ATLANTA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

GEORGLA.
No. 103.

Submitted November 14, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Ordinances of a city which subject the business of private detectives
and detective agencies to police supervision, and provide that no
person shall engage in such business without first obtaining recommendation by the Board of Police Commissioners, taking the oath
prescribed for city detectives and giving a bond in the sum of $1,000
to secure proper conduct, do not violatethe Fourteenth Amendment.
A contention to the contrary is not, however, frivolous.
A State, under her police power, may supervise and regulate the police
business within her limits and all that pertains to it, and this as
regards the citizens of other States as well as her own.
Even though the ordinances were construed by local officials, in other
cases, as excluding nonresidents from the detective business in
Georgia, one who made no application to comply with them and
thus failed to obtain a construction of them in his own case, is not
entitled to raise in this court the question whether they discriminate
against him as a citizen of another State. Gundling v. Chicago, 177
U. S. 183.
16 Ga. App. 64, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John D. Little, Mr. Arthur G. Powell, Mr. Marion
Smith and Mr. Max F. Goldstein for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel D. Hewlett and Mr. James L. Mayson for
defendant in error.

