OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S,

ADAMSON v. GILLILAND.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 396.

Submitted November 13, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

Upon 'considering the evidence the court finds grave reasons for agreeing with the District Judge that the respondent copied the petitioner's patented invention.
The rule which gives conclusive effect to a finding made by a judge who
saw the witnesses, when there is testimony consistent with it and
the finding depends on conflicting testimony or the credibility of
witnesses, is peculiarly applicable in a case wherein a patent is assailed by oral evidence of an alleged unpatented anticipation.
One who opposes a patent by oral evidence of a prior discovery, must
prove his case beyond a reasonable doubt. The Barbed Wire Patent,
143 U. S. 275, 284.
227 Fed. Rep. 93, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Percy B. Hills and Mr. Douglas W. Robert for petitioner.
Mr. James A. Carr and Mr. T. Percy Carr for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought by the petitioner for the infringement of a patent for a vulcanizinig device, "including a
vulcanizing member constructed to retain a combustible
fluid upon and in contact with its upper surface, the lower
surface of the vulcanizing member being adapted- to be
applied to the material to be vulcanized." In other words,
the upper side of the upper of two sheets of metal, between

ADAMSON v. GILLILAND.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which, when heated, the material is to be vulcanized, is
fashioned as a cup in which gasoline can be burned to heat
it. The specific character of the machine has made of it a
valuable success. The respondent admitted making and
selling devices like the plaintiff's but alleged and testified
that he made them first. In a previous suit by the plaintiff the plaintiff and the present defendant testified and
District Judge Geiger gave the plaintiff a decree. In this
case again the District Judge in his turn saw the defendant
and heard additional evidence, but after criticising it said
that his own judgment was that the new testimony would
not have changed Judge Geiger's opinion, and while professing to follow that opinion according to the usage of
District Judges in such matters, evidently, to our mind,
signified that he agreed with Judge Geiger, although in
terms only following what had been done. The Circuit
Court of Appeals treated the action of the District Judge
as a mere yielding to the authority of the former decisiQn
and reversed the decree upon the evidence as it stood in
print.
We are unable to agree with the Circuit Court of Appeals. There is no question that the plaintiff did not copy
the defendant, that he put his invention into the market
in November, 1911, and that the defendant did not put
out his vulcanizer until February or March of the following
year; but the defendant says that on August 7, 1911,
twelve days before the plaintiff made the drawing that
depicted his invention he had had castings made that are
substantially identical with the plaintiff's device and
identical in particulars that the plaintiff's patent made
material, but that the defendant declared to answer no
useful end. The plaintiff's cup had pins projecting from
the bottom arranged in circles around a central one, which
his specification described as serving to conduct the heat
of the flame downwards into the vulcanizing plate and
the combustible fluid. The defendant's origiulal casting

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

showed pins of similar arrangement. He explained that
the-similarity was accidental, that the pins were of no use,
but that "we expected to tell the poor, unsuspecting public that they conducted the heat to .
.
the bottom
of the vulcanizer," "which is a false statement." It needs
no' emphasis to point out the improbability that the defendant at nearly the same time as the plaintiff should'
have hit by accident upon the same configuration in striking particulars that he regarded as immaterial, and, merely
to deceive the public, have invented the same by no means
obvious explanation that was offered seriously by the
plaintiff but that the defendant regarded as false. The
improbability is intensified by a further coincidence also
explained by the defendant as accident. The lugs by
which the cup was to be fastened to the lower surface
happened to face in opposite directions in the plaintiff's
device, although later they were made to face the same
way. The defendant's also faced in opposite directions.
It surpasses the power of belief that a man who testified
that there was nothing in the invention, that it was merely
arranging to fasten a ladle to a board, should have come
by pure chance to make so exact a replica of the plaintiff's
specific form. Inspection of the two castings shows more
clearly than can words that one must have been a copy
of the other. The plaintiff and defendant lived far apart.
Adamson had no chance to copy Gilliland. On the other
hand after Adamson's vulcanizers were made public Gilliland could copy them. The man who made the castings
shows that the resemblance was even more complete than
we have stated by reason of the presence of a base plate,
although Gilliland denies that he had one at that time.
There is no doubt that the defendant had castings made.
The essential question is the time when they first were
made. We shall not discuss the evidence of those concerned in the making beyond recurring to the impression
that the witnesses made upon the District Judge and

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS R. R. CO. v. WINTERS. 353.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

mentioning that a dray ticket relied upon as fixing that
date appears to have been open to grave suspicion from
its character, marking and other details. Considering that
a patent has been granted to the plaintiff the case is preeminently one for the application of the practical rule
that so far as the finding of the master or judge who saw
the witnesses "depends upon conflicting testimony, or
upon the credibility of witnesses, or so far as there is any
testimony consistent with the finding, it must be treated
as unassailable." Davis v. Schwartz, 155 U. S. 631, 636.
The reasons for requiring the defendant to prove his case
beyond a reasonable doubt are stated in the case of The
Barbed Wire Patent, 143 U. S. 275, 284. Upon these considerations and a review of the evidence we are of opinion
that the decree must be reversed.
Decree reversed.

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY
v. WINTERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 420. Argued December 5, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

When a state court applies the Federal Employers' Liability Act to
an action governed by the state law, the error is not ground for
reversing the judgment upon the complaint of a party who did not
oppose but invoked and relied upon the application of the federal
statute.
In such circumstances, however, this court will not pass upon questions
concerning negligence and assumption of risk if the facts touching
the plaintiff's employment are stated and agreed and fail to make a
case within the federal act.
The injury occurred while plaintiff was repairing an engine. The

