LOVATO v. NEW MEXICO.
242 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

LOVATO v. STATE OF NEW MEXICO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW

MEXICO.
No. 123.

Submitted November 16, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.

In a criminal case tried in a District Court of a Territory and coming
here by way of the Supreme Court of the State into which the Territory was afterwards converted, defenses based on the Fifth and
Sixth Amendments (in part not raised until the case reached the
latter court) are within this court's jurisdiction to consider.
Quwre, Whether under the Constitution a defense of former jeopardy
is waived if not made before the prosecution has introduced its evidence in chief?
Defendant was arraigned and pleaded not guilty to an indictment for
murder; on a day subsequent, without withdrawing the plea, he
demurred to the indictment as not charging an offense. The demurrer being overruled, both sides being ready for trial, a jury was
duly impanelled and sworn and the witnesses for both sides called
and sworn, but on motion of the prosecuting officer the court dismissed the jury and directed that the defendant be arraigned anew.
This was done forthwith, the accused pleaded not guilty again, and
both sides being ready, the same jury was sworn once more and the
trial proceeded to a conviction.
Held. (1) Not double jeopardy.
(2) Due process and the right to a jury, under the Fifth and Sixth
Amendments respectively, did not require that ,a new jury be impanelled after the second arraignment and plea.
(3) Under the circumstances, dismissing the jury to allow of the second
arraignment and plea, whether a necessary formality or not, was
clearly permissible.
17 N. Mex. 666, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. T. B. Catron for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Frank W. Clancy, Attorney General of the State
of New Mexico, for defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

242 U. S.

delivered the opinion of

the court.
In the District Court of the Territory of New Mexico
the accused, on May 9th, 1910, pleaded not guilty to an
indictment for murder. On May 24, 1911, without withdrawing his plea he demurred to the indictment on the
ground that it charged no offence. The demurrer was
overruled and, both parties announcing themselves ready
for trial, a jury was impanelled and sworn and the witnesses for both sides were called and sworn. The record
then states:" That thereupon it appearing to E. C. Abbott,
Esq., District Attorney, that defendant had not been
arraigned and had not plead since the overruling of defendant's demurrer, upon motion the court dismissed the
jury and directed that the defendant be arraigned and
plead." The accused was accordingly again at once arraigned and pleaded not guilty and, both sides again announcing themselves ready for trial, the same jury previously impanelled was sworn and the trial proceeded.
At the close of the evidence for the prosecution the defendant moved for a directed verdict on the ground, among
others, that the record showed that he had been formerly
placed in jeopardy for the same offence, since it appeared
that in the same, case a jury had been impanelled and
sworn and thereafter had been dismissed from a consideration of the case. The motion was denied and a conviction
of manslaughter followed. The same ground was relied
upon in a motion in arrest of judgment which was denied
and from the judgment and sentence subsequently entered
an appeal was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of the
Territory.
Pending the appeal New Mexico was admitted to the
Union and the case was heard by the Supreme Court of
the State. In that court in addition to the contention
as to former jeopardy the accused urged that he had been

LOVATO v. NEW MEXICO.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

denied due process of law and had been deprived of the
right to a trial by jury because from the record it appeared
that although a jury was impanelled before he was arraigned and pleaded not guilty, that jury was dismissed
and it did not appear that any jury was impanelled after
his arraignment and plea. The court held this contention
to be without merit and concluded from a consideration
of the common-law doctrine of former jeopardy, in the
light of which it deemed the constitutional provision on
the subject was to be construed, that the question concerning it was raised too late, since it was first presented
to the trial court after the conclusion of the state's case.
To the judgment of affirmance giving effect to these conclusions this writ of error was prosecuted. 17 N. Mex. 666.
As the case was tried in a territorial court, the denial of
asserted rights based upon the Fifth and Sixth Amendments presents questions within our jurisdiction.
Without expressing any opinion as to the correctness
of the ruling of the court below concerning the failure to
promptly raise the question of former jeopardy, although
on this record it may be conceded it presents a federal
question, we pass from its consideration, since we think
the contention that the accused was twice put in jeopardy
is wholly without merit. Under the circumstances there
was in the best possible view for the accused a mere irregularity of procedure which deprived him of no right. Indeed, when it is borne in mind that the situation upon
which the court acted resulted from entertaining a demurrer to the indictment after a plea of not guilty had
been entered and not withdrawn, it is apparent that the
confusion was brought about by an over-cautious purpose
on the part of the court to protect the rights of the accused.
Whether or not under the circumstances it was a necessary
formality to dismiss the jury in order to enable the accused
to be again arraigned and plead, the action taken was
clearly within the bounds of sound judicial discretion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

United States v. Perez, 9 Wheat. 579, 580; Dreyer v.
Illinois, 187 U. S. 71, 85-86. See United-States v. Riley,
5 Blatchf. 204, in which the facts were in substance identical with those here presented.
As to the contention concerning the denial of due process
and the right to jury trial, it is not disputed that in the
first instance a jury was legally impanelled. The argument is, however, that constitutional rights of the accused
were violated because after the order of dismissal and the
plea of not guilty there was a failure to impanel a jury,
although the same jury previously drawn was at once
sworn and tried the case. But we think the absolute
want of merit in the proposition is manifest from its mere
statement and is additionally demonstrated by what we
have previously said.
Affirmed.

GOSHEN MANUFACTURING COMPANY v. HUBERT A. MYERS MANUFACTURING COMPANY
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 60. Argued November 1, 2, 1916.-Decided December 11, 1916.
When patent rights have been infringed and sound reason exists for
believing that the infringement may be resumed in the future, the
case is remediable in equity by an injunction, with an accounting
for past profits.
Evidence to the effect that defendant company, as a result of plaintiff's
published claim of infringement, became financially embarrassed,
decided to cease manufacturing the device in question, sold all its
property (except its patent), and went out of business six months
before this suit was begun, held, insufficient to remove the menace

