LEHON v. CITY OF ATLANTA.
242 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

uation. And for this purpose the issue of the writ will
be stayed until the end of this term, unless the United
States otherwise requests, when it will go as a matter of
course.
Rule made absolute.

LEHON v. CITY OF ATLANTA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

GEORGLA.
No. 103.

Submitted November 14, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Ordinances of a city which subject the business of private detectives
and detective agencies to police supervision, and provide that no
person shall engage in such business without first obtaining recommendation by the Board of Police Commissioners, taking the oath
prescribed for city detectives and giving a bond in the sum of $1,000
to secure proper conduct, do not violatethe Fourteenth Amendment.
A contention to the contrary is not, however, frivolous.
A State, under her police power, may supervise and regulate the police
business within her limits and all that pertains to it, and this as
regards the citizens of other States as well as her own.
Even though the ordinances were construed by local officials, in other
cases, as excluding nonresidents from the detective business in
Georgia, one who made no application to comply with them and
thus failed to obtain a construction of them in his own case, is not
entitled to raise in this court the question whether they discriminate
against him as a citizen of another State. Gundling v. Chicago, 177
U. S. 183.
16 Ga. App. 64, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John D. Little, Mr. Arthur G. Powell, Mr. Marion
Smith and Mr. Max F. Goldstein for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel D. Hewlett and Mr. James L. Mayson for
defendant in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
The question in the case is the validity of ordinances of
the City of Atlanta, Georgia, which subject the business
of a private detective or detective agency to police supervision and provide that no person shall carry on such
business without being first recommended by the Board
of Police Commissioners and taking the oath of a city
detective and giving a bond in the sum of $1,000 as prescribed by the ordinances.
Plaintiff in error was convicted in the recorder's court
of the city of a violation of the ordinances and sentenced
to pay a fine, with the alternative of imprisonment. Under
the local procedure a petition for certiorari was presented
to the judge of the superior court of the county to review
the conviction, and was refused "sanction," to use the
local word. This action was approved by the Court of
Appeals and the judgment affirmed.
The Court of Appeals rejected the contention that the
ordinances were unreasonable and void under the constitution of the State, to review which decision we, of course,
have no power; and it also sustained the ordinances
against the contention that they offended the clauses
of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States. The latter contention is repeated
here.
His contention, in its most general form, is that the
ordinances abolish 'the occupation of private detective
by the requirements of application for a permit to the
police commission of the city, the approval of the chief
of police, oath of office and to work under police supervision. These requirements, it is insisted, offend the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
The contention makes a federal question, and, as we are

LEHON v.. CITY OF ATLANTA.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not'disposed to consider it frivolous, a motion to dismiss
which is made will be denied.
In pasing upon the merits we assume the-facts of the
complaint were established; that is, that plaintiff in error
was proved to have acted as a private detective, though
he denied and denies it, and that his services were those
of a "sleuth," though he asserts they were only those of a
clerk. We make these assumptions against the denials
of plaintiff in error because to sustain. the denials he selects
parts of the testimony only and ignores also the deduction that it was possible to make even from that testimony.
The only question for our decision is the validity ot the
'law, and of that we have no doubt. Nor are we disposed
to take much time in its discussion, notwithstanding the
earnest argument of plaintiff in error. The, extent of the
police power of the State has been too recently explained
to need further enunciation. The present case is easily
within its principle. It would be very common-place
to say that the exercise of police is one of the necessary
activities of government and all that pertains -to it may be
subjected 'to regulation and surveillance as a precaution
against perversion. The Atlanta ordinances do no more.
They provide in effect that all who engage in it or are connected with it as a business shall have the sanction of the
State, have the stamp of the State as to fitness and character, take an oath to the State for faithful execution of
its duties And give a bond for their sanction. This the
State may do against its own citizens and may do against
a citizen of Louisiana, which plaintiff in error is, or against
•a citizen of any other State.
But the ruling of'the local officers in refusing approval
of applications of nonresidents of Georgia is urged as
a construction of the ordinances or laws of the State
and, it is contended, makes them discriminatory against
citizens of other States. 'Plaintiff in error, however, ad-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

mits he made no effort to comply with the ordinances.
The Court of Appeals, therefore, was of opinion that,
whether certain sections of the Penal Code of the State
did or did not exclude citizens of other States from engaging as private detectives, plaintiff in error was deprived
of no constitutional right, for "as to him, the ordinances
were never construed at all." In other words, that he
had not asserted a right, and in the absence of assertion
could not have it judicially passed on. We concur in the
ruling. It is within the principle of Gundling v. Chicago,
177 U. S. 183. To complain of a ruling one must be made
the victim of it. One cannot invoke to defeat a law an
apprehension of what might be done under it and, which
if done, might not receive judicial approval.
Judgment affirmed.

ATLANTIC CITY RAILROAD COMPANY v.
PARKER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
No. 111.

Argued November 16, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

In this action for personal injury, governed by the Safety Appliance
and Employers' Liability Acts, it is held, that the evidence concerning the fitness and efficiency of the automatic couplers in question,
and concerning the special condition which existed, as a result of
the train's being on a curve when the couplers failed and the accident
occurred, did not preclude a reasonable inference that the Safety Appliance Act was not complied with.
When couplers fail to couple automatically on a'straight track because
of lateral play of the drawheads, the jury may properly infer that
such a degree of play was unnecessary and violative of the Safety
Appliance Act, in the absence of any satisfactory explanation.

