OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY ET-AL. v. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
No. 2CO.

Argued October 13, 16, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Under circumstances which induce the court to say that there could
have been no purpose to discriminate against the Tennessee Central,
the two appellant railroad companies planned and matured an arrangement for the interchange of traffic at Nashville which, stated
generally, took the following form, viz: The terminal, connecting

their main lines and consisting of tracks, yards, depots and other
railroad property, owned in part by the appellant railroad companies in severalty, and in part held as to title by appellant Terminal
Company, but leased by it to them in joint tenure, was placed under the management of an unincorporated organization called the
"Nashville Terminals," along with additional connecting trackage
contributed by the two railroads from their respective main and
side tracks. 'The "Nashville Terminals," under control of the two
appellant railroad companies, maintained and operated this collective property and thus served, within the switching limits so constituted, to interchange the traffic of the two roads at Nashville.
The total expense of maintenance and operation was apportioned
between the two constituent railroad companies on the basis of the
total number of cars and locomotives handled for each, and no
switching charges were made against either. The appellant Terminal
Company was, in origin, a creature of the other two appellants; the
property which it held in and about the terminal was obtained di-

rectly or indirectly through their financial aid, and the Louisville &
Nashville owned all its stock, as well as 71% of the stock of the
Nashville & Chattanooga. The Interstate Commerce Commission
directed appellants to abstain from refusing to switch interstate
competitive traffic for the Tennessee Central on the same terms as
noncompetitive, while exchanging both kinds on the same terms for
each other, and ordered them to etablish rates for the switching of
all interstate traffic for the Tennessee Central the same as they contemporaneously maintained between themselves.

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.

61

242 U. S. Argument for Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co.
Held, under these circumstances, as more fully developed in the opinion:
(1) That for all practical purposes the effect of the arrangement was
to make the two appellant railroad companies the joint owners of
the terminal.
(2) That by § 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act they were as such
joint owners protected in the same degree as would be an owner in
severalty from being required to give the use of their terminal facilities to another carrier engaged in like business.
(3) That their mere refusal to switch for the Tennessee Central would
not be an unlawful discrimination.
(4) That the method of switching through a single agency, as described,
did not involve unlawful discrimination against that railroad.
(5) That, consequently, the order of the Commission was erroneous
and must be enjoined.
(6) But that appellants might not lawfully discriminate between competitive and noncompetitive goods; and, so long as they received
the latter the Commission could require them to receive the former
upon being paid reasonable compensation, taking into account their
pecuniary outlay on the terminal.
227 Fed. Rep. 258; id. 273, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward S. Jouett, with whom Mr. Henry L. Stone,
Mr. W. A. Colston and Mr. Jno. B. Keeble were on the
briefs, for the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company:
Each plaintiff pays for, and through the joint agency
performs, the service incident to switching its car between
the point of interchange and the industry, in the case of
every car which is hauled inbound or outbound over its
tracks. Accordingly neither switches for the other nor
discriminates against the Tennessee Central in refusing
to switch for it.
If the arrangement should be held to constitute any
sort of switching service, rendered by one of the constituent
companies to the other, it would not constitute an unjust
or undue discrimination for the reason that the circumstances and conditions under which the service is rendered

are totally dissimilar from those necessarily existing in

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co.

242 U. S.

connection with the handling of cars for the Tennessee
Central. In pursuing its discrimination theory the Commission is led into declaring,, and logically so, that the
plaintiffs must switch for the Tennessee Central at confiscatory rates, that is for cost, without any return on the
property used. This is illegal because the constituent
companies would get nothing to equalize the interest or
return on their property, and nothing for overhead expenses. The necessity for the charge being indefinitethe cost of service-is another demonstration of the impracticability, in addition to the illegality, of the Commission's theory of discrimination.
Certainly no reason or authority can, be found for allowing the Commission to substitute something ,els for
the facility which a carrier gives to oie and refuses to
give to another. If the joint arrangement of plaintiffs be
a facility, the denial of which to the Tennessee Central
constitutes a discrimination under § 3 of the Commerce
Art, then the way to remove the discrimination is to
order plaintiffs to discontinue the arrangement or else
to admit the Tennessee Central to it upon proper
terms. But there are two things, either of which will
prevent the Commission from validly making this latter
requirement: (1) a dissinrilarity of conditions and circumstances, in which case there is no unjust or undue discrimingtion; or (2) the prohibition of some law. While either
of these two barriers is sufficient for us, it happens that
both exist in this case. The dissimilarity in conditions is
fully established, and hence the Commission's finding of
discrimination as a fact is unsupported by substantial
evidence. The proviso at the end of § 3 is the law that
conclusively forbids the Commission to order plaintiffs to
admit the Tennessee Central to the physical use of their
terminal tracks.
This proviso is an express limitation imposed upon the
Commission's power in the matter of ordering equal facil-

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 63
242 U.S. Argument for Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co.

ities. It must always stop short of requiring one road to
afford another road physical.access to its "tracks and
terminal facilities." In other words, the right of a railroad to sell to another railroad (whether for money or other
trackage rights or other thing) the physical use of its road,
that is trackage rights, and that without incurring a
similar obligation to other railroads, is thereby ratified and
preserved. K. & I. Bridge Co. v. L. & N. R. R. .Co., 37
Fed. Rep. 567; Oregon Short Line & U. N. Ry. Co. v.
Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 51 Fed. Rep. 465 (affirmed by
the C. C. A. in 61 Fed. Rep.); Little Rock & M. R. Co. v.
St. Louis, I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 59 Fed. Rep. 400.
This proviso to § 3, construed in the foregoing cases,
has never been amended. We are aware that it is a mooted
question whether the proviso serves to prevent the Commission ordering switching, independent of the question
of discrimination, but no such question is here presented.
This is a discrimination case, that being the sole ground
of the Commission's order. -Besides, the Commission decided in the Louisville Switching Case, 40 I. C. C. 679,
that it had no power to order switching, except in the
case of discrimination; and in that case the discriminatory
act was switching, not granting trackage rights.
The joint arrangement of plaintiffs is not a "device" to
evade the Act to Regulate Commerce.
'This court can review the Commission's order where
its ultimate conclusion from undisputed facts is wrong.
Interstate Commerce Commission v. L. & N. R. R. Co.,
227 U. S. 88, 91.
The decision in the Nashville Coal Case (L. & N. R. R.
Co. v. United States, 238 U. S. 1) does not affect this
case.

This court has distinctly declared the right of two companies to unite their terminals for their "common but
exclusive use." United States v. Terminal Railroad Association of St. Louis, 224 U. S. 383.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry.

242 U. S.

Mr. Claude Waller, Mr. R. Walton Moore and Mr.
Frank W. Gwathmey filed a brief for Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway:
These appellants are not interchanging traffic; each is
handling its own traffic and delivering it to each industry
within the terminal district through a joint agent to be
sure, but at its own expense; neither has switching charges
against the otber; no switching charge has been filed with
the Interstate Commerce Commission; and the plan of
operation does not bear the slightest relationship, to a
reciprocal switching arrangement, in which case one road
performs a service for another at its own expense, on its
own track, through its own switching crew for a switching
charge which is either paid by the shipper or consignee
. or by the carrier for which the switching is done.
The case does not come within the principle announced in
PennsylvaniaCo.v. United States, 236 U. S. 351, that where
a railroad company has opened its terminals to one carrier it is unjustly discriminatory not to open its terminals
on the same terms to another carrier similarly situated.
The arrangement is essentially the same. as both roads
acquiring and operating jointly the entire terminals, or
the same as each having exchanged trackage rights with
*the other. Such an arrangement is not contrary to law,
nor is it unjustly discriminatory towards a third railroad
to deny it participation in such an arrangement.
There is no illegality in the two railroad companies acquiring and operating jointly, at a given point, terminal
facilities for their common, but exclusive, use. United
States v. Terminal R. R. Association of St. Louis, 224 U. S.
383, 405.
The amendment to the Interstate Commerce Act does
not prevent a railroad company from giving trackage
rights to one road and denying it to another. Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, supra.
If the arrangement is a legal one, not prohibited by any

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 65
242 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

of the provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce, then
there is no unjust discrimination in the sense of § 3 of the
Act.
The argument then dealt with the impossibility of complying with the order without destroying the terminal
arrangement entirely, and affirmed that the circumstances surrounding the Tennessee Central Company
are entirely dissimilar to those existing between appellants.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood for the United
States:
This court has not only (a) settled the principles involved (Pennsylvania Company v. United States, 236 U. S.
351), but has also (b) applied those principles to the facts
presented by this record. Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Company v. United States, 238 U. S. 1.
(a) In the former case, it is again announced, with
citation of numerous cases, that discrimination is a question of fact for the determination of the Commission
(p. 361); that transportation similar to that involved in
this case comes within § 3 of the Act to Regulate
Commerce as amended (pp. 363-364); that to require
such interchange is not a taking of property without
due process of law (p. 369), and does not require the
carrier to give the use of its tracks or terminal facilities
to another carrier engaged in like business (pp. 366,
369).
(b) In the case of the Louisville & Nashville Railroad
Company v. United States, 238 U. S. 1, the record and
the issues before the court were substantially the same as
presented in ,this case, and the judgment there is decisive
here. It is true that in the-former case only the reports of
the Commission were before this court, while the record
now contains both the reports of the Commission and the
evidence taken before it. Nevertheless, the evidence be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916..
Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

242 U. S.

fore the Commission and its findings of fact were substantially the same in both cases. Not only was the issue
now advanced made and insisted upon by appellants in the
former case, but, as will be seen from an examination of the
record, was given careful consideration by the Commission,
the District Court, and this court.
The respective interests of appellants in the terminal
property 'the joint agency and its method of operation
were described in detail in both the report of the Commission and the decision of the District Court. Louisville &
Nashville Railroad Company v. United States, 216 Fed.
Rep. 672, 683.
This court adopted the statements of facts of the Commission and the District Court, using them as the basis
of its decision.
Mr. Charles W. Needham, with whom Mr. Joseph W.
Folk was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission:
The Commission's findings of fact, if based upon substantial evidence, are conclusive. The question of unjust
discrimination, as presented in this case, is one of fact,
even though the evidence may be undisputed. United
States v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 235 U. S. 314; Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, 236 V. S. 351.
Section 15 of the act, as amended, empowers the Commission to deal with preferential and discriminatory regulations of carriers, as well as with rates. int. Com. Com.
v. Illinois Central R. Co., 215 U. S. 452.
The finding of the Commission that the Louisville
Company and the Nashville Company were in effect
switching for e6ch other was supported by substantial
evidence.
It is apparent that, while the Louisville Company and
the Nashville Company, after the inauguration of the
joint arrangement, continued as theretofore to perform a,

LOUISVILLE '& NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.. 67
242 U. S. Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

switching service for each other, that service, after the
establishment of the Nashville Terminals, was rendered
by the common agency of both, instead of individually
by each for the other, as previously.
Appellants contend that the Nashville Terminals acts
in every instance as the agent of ,the carrier performing
the line service, and cite, in support of that contention,
the practice observed by the Terminals in the apportionment of its operating expenses. But if the joint agency
did not exist, the carrier switching the traffic to or from
the industry on its line would bill that service against the
carrier making the road haul. In other words, the line
carrier merely pays its proportion of the switching service
performed by the Nashville Terminals instead of the
switching charge which it otherwise would pay to the
carrier -performing that service. The joint agent, then,
must be held to act for the carrier which would perform
the switching service in the absence of the joint arrangement.
The finding of the Commission t~iat the Louisville
Company and the Nashville Company were in effect
switching for each other was supported by, the decision
of this court in Louisville & N. R. Co. v. United States,
238 U. S. 1, 17-20. The material facts of record in. the
two cases are essentially the same, although more in detail
in this record. But so far as the question here involved
is concerned the Commission says that it "discloses nothing to change our former conclusion."
Appellants virtually admit that if. they were individually
switching for each other, and at the same time and under
like conditions refusing to perform a similar service for
the Tennessee Central, their discrimination against the
latter carrier would constitute. a violation of the act.
How, then, can they justify such a discrimination when
effected by their common agent?
Again,, if the Nashville Terminals were in fact
a ter-

OCTOBER-TERM, 1916.
Argument for the Interstate Commerce Commission.

242 U. S.

minal company, as that expression is generally understood, it could scarcely deny that its exclusion of the
Tennessee Central from privileges extended to the
Louisville Company and the Nashville Company would
constitute an unlawful discrimination. St. Louis, S.
& P. R. Co. v. P. & P. U. Ry. Co., 26 I. C. C. 226, 235236.
Appellants may not reasonably complain if the joint
agency created by them for the purpose of performing
terminal services is required to provide without discrimination reasonable, proper, and equal facilities to all carriers- requesting of it the performance of such services.
The fiction of a separate corporate entity will be disregarded whenever it is insisted upon as a protection to an
illegal transaction. In re Rieger, Kapner & Altmark, 157
Fed. Rep. 609; Miller & Lux v. East Side Canal & Irrigation Co., 211 U. S. 293; Lehigh Mining & Mfg. Co. v.
Kelley, 160 U. S. 327; Gas Co. v. West, 50 Iowa, 16; Booth
v. Bunce, 33 N. Y. 139.
The Nashville Terminals, if given the effect appellants
claim for it, would constitute a monopoly; and the Commission properly refused to give it that effect.
This is not a proceeding involving the establishing of a
through route. The issue here is one of discrimination
only. And this court clearly decided that the provision
in § 15 did not apply in such a case. L. & N. R. Co. v.
United States, 238 U. S. 1.
The Commission has power to require the removal of
discrimination in whatsoever guise it may appear.
The discrimination is also q discrimination against the
shippers served by the Tennessee Central and against the
City of Nashville. Michigan Central R. Co. v. Michigan,
Railroad Commission, 236 U. S. 615, 632.
In Louisville & N. R. Co. v. United States, 238 U. S. 1, this
court held that the joint arrangement between appellants
did not take the case out of the principle announ ed'in

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 69
242 U. S.

*.

Opinion of the Court.

Pennsylvania Co. v. United States, 236' U. S. 351, and
that the order of the Commission there under consideration, which was substantially the same as the order here
involved, did not require appellants to give the use of their
terminals to the Tennessee Central.
MR. JUSTICE

HoLMEs' delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an appeal from a decree, made by three judges,
sitting in the District Court, which denied a preliminary
injunction against the enforcement of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission and dismissed the appellants' petition. 227 Fed. Rep. 258, id. 273. See 33
I. C. C. 76, for the report of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. The order complained of required the appellants, the Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company,
the Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway and the
Louisville & Nashville Terminal Company to desist and
abstain "from maintaining a practice whereby they refuse
to switch interstate competitive traffic to and from the
tracks of the Tennessee Central Railroad Company at
Nashville, Tenn., on the same terms as interstate noncompetitive traffic, while interchanging both kinds of. said
traffic on the same terms with each other, as said practice
is found by the Commission in its said report to be unjustly discriminatory." It was further ordered, that
"The Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company, Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway, and Louisville &
Nashville Terminal Company be, and they are hereby
notified and required to establish, on or before May 1,
1915, upon notice to the Interstate Commerce Commission
and to the general public by not less than 30 days' filing
and posting in the manner prescribed in section 6 of the
act to regulate commerce, and thereafter to maintain and
apply to the switching of interstate traffic to and from the

OCTOBER- TERM, 1916.
Opinionlof the Court.

242 U. S.

tracks of the Tennessee Central Railroad Company at
said Nashville, rates and charges which shall not be different than they contemporaneously maintain with respect to similar shipments to and from their respective
tracks in said city, as said relation is found by the. Commission in its said report to be nondiscriminatory." The
appellants contend as matter of law that the relations
between them-extlude any charge of discrimination that
is based only upon a refusal to extend to the Tennessee
Central road the advantages that they enjoy.
,The order is based upon discrimination and is limited
by' the duration of the interchange between the appellants
found to be discriminatory, ahid the question argued by
the appellants is the only question in the case. Therefore it is necessary to consider relations between the
appealing railroads that were left on one side in Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. United States,, 238 U. S.

18.
The Louisville & Nashville traverses Nashville from,
north to south, the Nashville & Chattanooga from west
to southeast, the Tennessee Central from northwest to
east. They all are competitors for Nashville traffic. In
1872, contemplating a possible Union Station, the Louisville.& Nashville acquired trackage rights from the Nashville & Chattanooga that connected its northern And southern terminals in the city (previously separate), and the
terminal of the Nashville & Chattanooga. It now owns
seventy-one per cent. of the stock of the latter. In:1893
these two roads caused the appellant Terminal Company
to be organized under the general laws of Tennessee, with
the right to let its prbperty. The Louisville & Nashville
owns all the stock of this company. In 1896 the two roads
respectively let to the Terminal Company their several
properties in the neighborhood of the original depot
grounds of the Nashville & Chattanooga for 999 years,
and shortly afterwards the Terminal made what is termed

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 71
242 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

a lease of the same and subsequently acquired property
to the two roads jointly for a like term. It covenanted to
construct all necessary passenger and freight buildings,
tracks and terminal facilities, the roads to pay annually
as rental four per cent. of the actual cost, and to keep the
properties in,repair. The Terminal Company then made
a contract with the city for the construction of a, Union
Station, the two roads guaranteeing the performance, and,
the construction was completed in. 1900; the tracks connecting with those of the two roads but not with those
of the Tennessee Central. The Terminal Company as
part of the improvements purchased large' additional
properties, the two roads advancing the funds, and the
company executing a mortgage for three million dollars
guaranteed by the roads. $2,535,000 of the bonds were
issued and the proceeds used to repay the roads.
On August 15, 1900, the two roads, at that time being
the only two roads entering Nashville, made the arrangement under which they since have operated. They made
an unincorporated organization called the Nashville Terminals which was to maintain and operate the ,property
let to the two roads jointly by the Nashville Terminal
Company and also 8.10 miles of main track and 23.80
miles of side track contributed by the Louisville & Nashville and 12.15 miles of main and 26.37 miles of side track
contributed by the Nashville & Chattanooga. The agreement between the roads provided a board of control consisting of a superintendent and the general managers of
the two roads, the -superintendent having the immediate
control and appointing under officers, &c. The total
expense of maintenance and operation is apportioned
monthly between the two roads on the basis of the total
number of cars and locomotives handled for each. There
is no switching charge to or from locations on tracks of
the Nashville terminals Within the switching limits on
freight from or to Nashville over either road. The Ten-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

nessee Central tracks now connect with those of the Nashville & Chattanooga at Shops Junction in the western
secti6n of the city, within the switching limits, and with
those of the Louisville & Nashville at Vine Hill, outside
the switching limits and just outside the city on the
south.
It should be added that in December, 1902, a further
agreement was made purporting to modify the lease to
the railroads jointly by excluding from it the property that
came from them respectively, and remitting the roads to
their several titles as they stood before the lease, subject
only to the mortgage, with some other changes that need
not be mentioned. This partial change from joint tenancy
back to several titles does not affect the substantial equality of the contribution of the two roads, and the joint
tenure of the considerable property purchased by the
Terminal Company was left unchanged.
Another matter that seems immaterialto the case before
us is that since the connection between the Tennessee
Central and the appellant roads the latter have interchanged noncompetitive traffic with the former, but the
Louisville & Nashville has refused to switch competitive
traffic and coal except at its local rates and the Nashville
& Chattanooga has refused to switch it at all. The switching of coal was dealt with by this court in Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. United States, 238 U. S. 1. But the
case now before us is not concerned with the effect of the
carriers having thrown the terminals open to many
branches of traffic. 238 U. S. 18. It arises only upon thequestion of the discrimination supposed to arise from the
appellants' relations to each other, as we have explaineda question grazed but not hit by the decision in 238 U. S.
SeeIf p. 19.,
the intent of the parties or purpose of the arrangement
was material in a case like this, obviously there was none
to discriminate against the Tennessee Central road. That

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 73
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

road did not enter Nashville when the plan was formed,
and the two appellants had a common interest although
competitors-an interest that also was public and in which
the City of Nashville shared. By § 3 of the Act to'Regulate Commerce as it now stands, the Act "shall not be
construed as requiring any such common carrier to give
the use of its tracks or terminal facilitks to another carrier
engaged in like business." Therefore if either carrier
owned and used this terminal alone it could not be found
to discriminate against the Tennessee Central by merely
refusing to switch for it, that is to move a car to or from
a final or starting point from or to a point of interchange.
We conceive that what is true of one owner would be
equally true of two joint owners, and if we are right the
question is narrowed to whether that is not for all practical
purposes the position in which the appellants stand. They
do still hold jointly a considerable portion of the terminals,
purchased with their funds. They manage the terminals
as a whole and in short deal with them in the same way
that they would if their title was joint in every part. Of
course they do not own their respective original tracks
jointly and it is matter for appreciation that perhaps
defies more precise argument whether the change back to
a several tenure of those tracks changed the rights of the
parties. We cannot see in this modification of the paper
title any, change material to the point in .hand. Neither
road is paid for the use of its tracks, but the severally
owned and the jointly held are brought into a single
whole by substantially equal contributions and are used
by each as occasion requires.
The fact principally relied upon to uphold the order of
the Commission is that instead of each road doing its own
switching over the terminals used in common they switch
jointly, and it is said that therefore each is doing for the
other a service that it cannot refuse to a third. We cannot
believe that the rights to their own terminals reserved by

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the law axe to be defeated by such a distinction. We take
it that a several use by the roads for this purpose would
open no door to a third road. If the title were strictly joint
throughout in the two roads, we can see no ground for
prejudice in the adoption of the more economical method
of 'a single agency for both, each paying substantially as
it would if it did its own work alone. But, as we have
indicated, a large part of the terminals is joint property in
substance and the whole is held and used as one concern.
What is done seems to us not reciprocal switching but the
use of a joint terminal in the natural and practical way.
It is objected that upon this view a way is opened to get
beyond the reach of the statute and the Commission. But
the very meaning of a line in the law is that right and
wrong touch each other and that anyone may get as close
to the line as he can if he keeps on the right side. And
further, the distinction seems pretty plain between a bona
fide joint ownership or arrangement so nearly approaching
joint ownership as this, and the grant of facilities for the
interchange of traffic that should be extended to others on
equal terms. The joint outlay of the two roads has produced much more than a switching arrangement, it has
produced a common and peculiar interest in the station
and tracks even when the latter are not jointly owned. In
our opinion the order was not warranted by the law; but
in overturning it upon the single point discussed we do so
without prejudice to the Commission's making orders to
prevent the appellants from discriminating between competitive and noncompetitive goods, so long as they open
their doors to the latter, the appellants being entitled,
to, reasonable compensation, taking into account the
expense of the terminal that they have built and
paid for.
Decree reversed. Injunction to issue, without prejudice
to further orders by the Interstate Commerce Commission
as stated in the opinion.

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES4 75
242 U. S.

PITNEY, DAY, BRANDEIS,

and CARKE, JJ., dissenting.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, with whom concurred Mr. JusMR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS, and MR. JUSTICE
CLARKE, dissenting.
TICE DAY,

I am unable to concur in the opinion of the court, and,
in view of the far-reaching effect of the decision upon the
commercial interests of the country, deem it a duty to set
forth the grounds of my dissent.
The Interstate Commerce Commission found as matter
of fact (33 I. C. C. 76, 84): "Defendants [the two railroad
companies, now appellants] unquestionably interchange
traffic with each other and without distinction between
competitive and noncompetitive traffic. The cars of both
roads are moved over the individually owned terminal
tracks of the other to and from industries on the other, and
both lines are rendered equally available to industries
located exclusively on one. The movement, it is true, is
not performed immediately by the road over whose terminal tracks it is performed, but neither is it performed
immediately by the road whose cars are moved. It is
performed by a joint agent for both roads, and that berig
so, we are of the opinion that the arrangement is essentially
the same as a reciprocal switching arrangement and accordingly constitutes a facility for the interchange of
traffic between, and for receiving, forwarding, and delivering property to and from defendants' respective lines,
within the meaning of the second paragraph of section 3
of the. act. [Interstate Commerce Act.] . . . We
can not agree with defendants' contention that they have
merely exchanged trackage rights. But even if they have,
we think the term 'facility,' as used in section 3 of the act,
also includes reciprocal trackage rights over terminal
tracks, the consequences and advantages to shippers being
identical with those accruing from reciprocal switching
arrangements."
The District Court, three judges sitting (227 Fed. Rep.,

76

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY, DAY, BRANDEIS,

and

CLARIE,

JJ., dissenting. 242 U. S.

258, 269), after careful consideration, reached the following conclusions: "The operation jointly carried on by the
Louisville & Nashville and the Nashville & Chattanooga
under the Terminals agreement is not a mere exchange
of trackage rights to and from industries on their respective lines at Nashville, under which each does all of its
own switching at Nashville and neither switches for the
other. It is, on the contrary, in substance and effect, an
arrangement under which the entire switching service
for each railroad over the joint and separately owned
tracks is performed jointly by both, operating as principals
through the Terminals as their joint agent, each railroad,
as one of such joint principals, hence performing through
such agency switching service for both itself and the other
railroad. . . . And, viewed in its fundamental aspect,
and considered with reference to its ultimate effect, we
entirely concur in the conclusion of the Commission that
such joint switching operation 'is essentially the same as a
reciprocal switching arrangement,' constituting a facility
for the interchange of traffic between the lines of the two
railroads, within the meaning of the second paragraph of
section 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act. That each
railroad does not separately switch for the other, but that
such'switching operations are carried on jointly, is not, in
our opinion, material. If it were, all reciprocal switching
operations carried on by two railroads at any connecting
point of several carriers could be easily put beyond the
reach of the act, and its remedial purpose defeated, by the
simple device of employing a joint agency to do such reciprocal switching. The controlling test of the statute,
however, lies in the nature of the work done, rather than
in the particular device employed or the names applied
to those engaged in it."
With these views I agree. Elaborate argument is made
in behalf of appellants in the effort to show that the
method of operating the Nashville Terminals is not "re-

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 77
242 U. S.

PITNEY, DAY, BRANDEIs, and CLARKu, JJ., dissenting.

ciprocal switching" within a certain narrow definition of
that term. This is an immaterial point; the real question
being whether it constitutes a facility for the interchange
of traffic between the respective lines of appellants, and
for the receiving, forwarding and delivering of property
between connecting lines, within the meaning of § 3 of the
Interstate Commerce Act (c. 104; 24 Stat. 380), so that
it must be rendered to the patrons of the Tennessee Central upon equal terms with those of the Louisville & Nashville and the Nashville & Chattanooga. I cannot doubt
that it bears this character.
The section reads as follows: "Sec. 3. That it shall be
unlawful for any common carrier subject to the provisions
of this act to make or give any undue or unreasonable
preference or advantage to any particular person, company, firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular
description of traffic, in any respect whatsoever, or to
subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation,
or locality, or any particular description of traffic, to any
undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage in any
respect whatsoever.
"Every common carrier subject to the provisions of
this act shall, according to their respective powers, afford
all reasonable, proper, and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic between their respective lines, and for
the receiving, forwarding, and delivering of passengers
and property to and from their several lines and those
connecting therewith, and shall not discriminate in their
rates and charges between such connecting lines; but this
shall not be construed as requiring any such common
carrier to give the use of its tracks or terminal facilities
to another carrier engaged in like business."
It is clear, I think, that in the second paragraph of this
section the word "facilities" is employed in two meanings.
Where it first occurs, it means those acts or operations
that facilitate or render easy the interchange of traffic;

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PiTNEY, DAY,

BRDEIS,

and Ci, iiKE, J., dissenting. 242 U. S.

while, in the final clause, "to give the use of its tracks or
terininal facilities," the words "terminal facilities" are
employed in a figurative sense and as equivalent to "terminal properties." This is obvious from the association
togethe- of tracks and terminal facilities as things subject
to use. And the same words axe used in the same sense in
the 1906 amendment to § 1 of the Act (c. 3591;, 34 Stat.
584), by which the definition of the term "railroad" was
expanded so as to include "all switches, spurs, tracks,
and terminal facilities of every kind usl or necessary
in the transportation of the persons or property designated
herein."
There is nothing in the order of the'Commission now
under review that requires appellants or either of them, or
their agency, the Nashville Terminals, to give the use of
tracks or terminal facilities to the Tennessee Central,
either physically or in any other sense, within the meaning
of the final clause of § 3. It requires them merely to interchange inter'state competitive traffic to and from the tracks
of the Tennessee Central on the same terms as interstate
noncompetitive traffic so long as they interchange both
kinds of traffic with each other on the same terms; and also
to establish and apply to the switching of interstate traffic
to and from the Tennessee Central rates and charges not
different from those that they contemporaneously maintain with respect to similar shipments as between themselves. Undoubtedly the expenditures made by appellants in the construction of the joint terminal property,
so far as that property is used in interchange switching,
is an element to be taken into consideration. in fixing the
amount of the switching charges. And the same is true
with respect to the value of the separately owned tracks
of appellants, so far as necessarily used in mutual interchanges.
The practice of the Louisville & Nashville and the Nashville & Chattanooga in refusing to interchange competi-

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES. 79

242 U. S. PITNEY, DAY,

BRANDEIS

and CItARKE, JJ.', dissefiting.

tive on the same terms as noncompetitive traffic with the
Tennessee Central, 'while interchanging both kinds of
traffic as between themselves, was found by the Cornmission to be unduly discriminatory, there being no substantial difference in the conditions of the interchange, nor
any increased cost of interchanging competitive as compared with noncompetitive traffic.
The tracks included in the joint terminal arrangement
of appellants include 8.10 miles of main and 23.80 miles
of side tracks separately owned by the Louisville & Nashville, 12.15 miles of main and 26.37 miles of side tracks
separately owned by the Nashville & Chattanooga, and
some yard tracks owned by the Louisville & Nashville
Terminal Company, whose entire stock is owned by the
Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. It may be conceded that
by virtue of the lease from the Terminal Company to the
appellant railroads, even as modified in December, 1902,
there remains in some sense a joint tenure of the property
of the Terminal Company. But, in my view, the question
of the ownership of the property is entirely aside from the
real point. The discrimination charged and found by the
Commission is not so much in the use of terminal property
as in the performance of interchange services; and for such
discrimination a community of interest in the property
affords neither justification nor excuse.
So far as the non-discriminatory performance of those
services requires that cars from the Tennessee Central
shall be admitted to the terminal tracks of the Louisville
& Nashville and the Nashville & Chattanooga and to
tracks in which these companies have a joint interest,
this is so only because appellants have, as between themselves, and also as regards traffic from the Tennessee
Central, thrown their terminals open to the public use.
The argument for appellants rests upon the essential fallacy that the terminal facilities are, in an absolute sense,
and for all purposes, private property. But they, like all

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY, DAY, BRANDEIS, and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

242 U. S.

other parts of the railroad line, are, with respect to their
use, devoted to the benefit of the public. And the final
clause of § 3, while it protects each carrier to a certain
extent in the separate use of its terminal property, does
so not otherwise than it protects its particular use of the
main line of railroad. "Tracks" are mentioned together
with "terminal facilities," and the same rule is applied
,to both. The fact that a carrier owns its own terminals
is no more an excuse for discriminatory treatment of its
patrons with respect to services performed therein than
its ownership of the main line is an excuse for discrimination with respect to transportation thereon.
It is said that if either of the appellants were the sole
owner of the terminal properties in question and used
them alone, it could not be deemed to discriminate against
the Tennessee Central because of a mere refusal to switch
for it in the interchange of traffic. Of course if it refused
all connecting carriers alike it could not be held for discrimination. But whether it would be at liberty to refuse
to switch for the Tennessee Central would depend upon
circumstances; for instance, upon whether the Interstate
Commerce Commission, pursuant to its authority under
§ 15 of the Act as amended in 1910 (c. 309; 36 Stat. 552),
should establish the two lines as a through route, or (without that) should determine upon adequate evidence that
the refusal of switching privileges was a failure to afford
reasonable and proper 'facilities for the interchange of
traffic between the connecting lines under § 3. Car interchange between connecting lines was made by the 1910
amendment of § 1 of the Act a positive duty on the part
of the carrier, even without action by the Commission.
36 Stat. 545.
I deem it a most material fact that the appellants already interchange noncompetitive traffic with the Tennessee Central, upon terms like those upon which they
interchange- both competitive and noncompetitive traffic

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R: v. UNITED STATES. 81
242 U. S. PITNEY,

DAY, BRANDEIS,

and

CLARKE,

JJ., dissenting.

between themselves. So far as their method of doing this
amounts to an interchange of trackage rights they have
by their voluntary action thrown open the use of their
terminals to all branches of traffic, excepting so far as they
discriminate against competitive traffic over the Tennessee
Central. Not only so, but the Commission has expressly
found (33 I. C. C. 82) that the Louisville & Nashville will
switch competitive coal and other competitive traffic to
and from the Tennessee Central, the interchange being
usually effected at Shops Junction and over the rails of
the Nashville & Chattanooga. But the Louisville &
Nashville insists upon charging local rates as if for transportation between Nashville and Overton, Tennessee,
which amount to from $12 to $36 per car, and are therefore
in effect prohibitory. For a time the Nashville & Chat•tanooga in like manner offered to perform the same switching service to and from the Tennessee Central at its local
rates,I and published a terminal tariff December 14, 1913;
expressly providing that such local rates would apply to
competitive traffic from and destined to the Tennessee
Central. This, however, was revoked shortly after the
complaint in the present case was filed. There is here a
very plain. discrimination, found by the Commission to be
an undue discrimination, not merely against the Tennessee
Central but against a "particular description of traffic,"
which is distinctly prohibited by § 3. The conduct of appellants is quite analogous to the making of a discrimination in the charge for carriage not because of any difference
inhering in the goods or in the cost of the service rendered
in transporting them, but upon the mere basis of the
ownership of the goods; a discrimination condemned by
this court in Int. Com. Comm. v. Del., Lack. & Western
R. R., 220 U. S. 235, 252.
The present system of interchanging traffic between
appellants was established in August, 1900, a year or two
before the line of the Tennessee Central was constructed

82

OCTOBER TERN, 1916.
nTNEY, DAY, BRAbNEIs, and

CIARKE,

JJ., dissenting. '242 U. S.

into Nashville. Emphasis was laid upon this, in argument,
as refuting the suggestion that the arrangement could be
deemed a "device" to avoid the discrimination clause of
§ 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act. 'The findings of the
Commission show, however (33 I. C. C. 81), that when the
Tennessee Central entered Nashville it was only after
strong opposition from the Louisville & Nashville; and
'(p. 79) that prior to the year 1898 the people of Nashville
had become desirous of better terminal facilities, particularly of a union passenger depot, and an ordinance authorizing a contract to that end between the City and the
Terminal Company was proposed, containing a proviso
that the terminal facilities should also be available on an'
equitable basis to railroads which might be built in the
future. The present appellants opposed this proviso and
an ordinance omitting it was passed, but was 4etoed by
the mayor on account of the omission. It clearly enough
appears, therefore, that the agreement of August, 1900,
was made by appellants in view of the probability of some
other road entering Nashville thereafter.
But were it otherwise, the result should be the same.
The 'obligation to avoid discrimination and to afford
"all reasonable, proper, and equal facilities for the interchange of traffic" is not qualified by any rights of priority.
The new road is a servant of the public, equally with the
others; pubject to the same duty and entitled, for its
patrons, to demand reasonable and impartial performance
of the reciprocal duty from carriers that preceded it in
the field.
In my opinion the present case is controlled by our
decisions in the former case between the same parties
(Louis. & Nash. R. R. v. United States, 2.38 U. S. 1, 18, 19),
and the earlier case of Pennsylvania Co. v. United States,
236 U. S. 351, 366 et seq. In these cases many of the same
arguments that are here advanced were considered and
overruled by the court. The latter case concerned the

LOUISVILLE & NASH. R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
242 U. S.

PITNEY, DAY, BRANDEIS,

and

CLARKE,

83

JJ., dissenting.

switching of interstate carload traffic between industrial
tracks and junction points within the switching limits at
New Castle, Pennsylvania. The Pennsylvania Company
undertook to sustain a practice of doing such switching
at $2 per car for three railroads while refusing to do it
for the Buffalo, Rochester & Pittsburgh, upon the ground
of its sole ownership of the terminals and the fact that the
three other carriers were in a position, either at New
Castle or elsewhere, to offer it reciprocal advantages
fully compensatory for the switching done for them in
New Castle, whereas the Buffalo, Rochester & Pittsburgh was not in a position to offer similar advantages.
The Interstate Commerce Cbmmission. (29 I. C. C. 114)
overruled this contention, and in this was sustained by
the District Court (214 Fed. Rep. 445), and by this court.
We there held (236 U. S. 361) that the question what was
an undue or unreasonable preference or advantage under
§ 3 of the Interstate Commerce Act was a question not of
law but of fact, and that if the order of the Commission
did not exceed its constitutional and statutory authority
and was not unsupported by testimony, it could not be
set aside by the courts; held (p. 363), that the provisions
of § 3, although that section remains unchanged, must
be read in connection with the amendments of 1906 and
1910 to other parts of the act, and that by these amendments the facilities for delivering freight at terminals
were brought within the definition of transportation to be
regulated; and also (pp. 368, 369) that the order did not
amount to a compulsory taking of the use of the Pennsylvania tracks by another road within the inhibition of the
final clause of § 3; no right being given to the Buffalo
road to run its cars over the terminals of the Pennsylvania
Company or to use or occupy its stations or depots for
purposes of its own.
In the former case between the present parties (Louis.
& Nash. R. R. v. United States, 238 U. S. 1), we sustained

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
PITNEY, DAY, BRANDEIS, and CLARKE, JJ., dissenting.

'242 U. S.

the District Court (216 Fed. Rep. 672) in refusing an
injunction to restrain the putting into effect of an order
of the Commission (28 I. C. C. 533, 540) requiring appellants to interswitch interstate coal with the Tennessee
Central as they did with each other. The findings of the
Commission (p. 542) recognized that the terminals were
in part jointly owned and in part the separate property
of the two appellants. The District Court (216 Fed. Rep.
682, 684) alluded to this fact. And this court (238 U. S.
17, 18, 19, 20) did not ignore that fact but laid it aside
as immaterial, declaring: "If the carrier, however, does
not rest behind that statutory shield [the final clause of
§ 3] but chooses voluntarily to throw the Terminals open
to many branches of traffic, it to that extent makes the
Yard public. Having made the Yard a facility for many
purposes and to many patrons, such railroad facility is
within the provisions of § 3 of the statute which prohibits the facility from being Used-in such manner as to
discriminate against patrons and commodities."
If the decision reached in the present case is adhered
to, and remains uncorrected by remedial legislation, it
will open a wide door to discriminatory practices repugnant alike to the letter and the spirit of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
MR. JUSTICE DAY, MR JUSTICE BRANDEIS,
JUSTICE CLARKE concur in this dissent.

and

MR.

