OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Parties.

242 U. S.

state court has given it a construction which may justify
the attack. Plymouth Coal Co., v. Pennsylvania, 232 U. S.
531, 546. The statute has only been applied in favor of a
contiguous land holder and only one recovery has been
permitted. So limited we think its validity must be admitted under the doctrine of the May. Case. But we
express no opinion concerning the consequences if a
broader construction should, be accepted by the state.
court.
Judgment affirmed.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY
v. OHIO VALLEY TIE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 66.

Argued November 3, 6, 1916.-Decided December 18. 1916.

Under §§ 8, 9 and 16 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, all damages
properly attributable to the exaction of excessive rates by carriers
in interstate commerce may be awarded in a proceeding before the
Interstate Commerce Commission; and, when damages because of
such rates have been so awarded, and satisfied, further damages
resulting from the same cause may not be recovered through independent proceedings in court.
161 Kentucky, 212, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Helm Bruce, with whbm Mr. Henry L. Stone was
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward W. Hines and Mr. John Bryce Baskin, with
whom Mr. J. V. Norman was on the briefs, for defendant
in error.

-L. & N. R. R. CO. v. OHIO VALLEY TIE CO. 289
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTiCE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit brought by the defendant in error in 1911
against the Railroad Company to recover for injury to,
business and other damages alleged to have been caused
by the Railroad's acts. The most important feature at
this stage is that the Railroad maintained and collected
a higher rate for cross-ties than it did for lumber when
they were carried between States, although the state commission required the same rate upon both for carriage
within the State* nd although, as the Railroad knew, the
Interstate Commerce Commission repeatedly had decided
that the rates for cross-ties and lumber should be the
same. It is alleged that these and the other acts complained of were done for the purpose of gettipg rid of the
plaintiff as a competitive buyer, and, in that sense, maliciously. The plaintiff tried to meet the higher rate by
directing delivery within the State of ties intended to go
beyond, which attempt the defendant encountered by
refusal to carry them except on its interstate tariff, and
hampered the plaintiff by declining to- let its cars leave
its road, by deliveries at points requiring a haul by wagon
and so forth, and, in short, it may be assumed that the
Railroad did other acts to further the alleged end, not
necessary to be stated here.
Shortly before bringing this suit the plaintiff complained
to the Interstate Commerce Commission in respect of
charges collected upon ninety-one carloads of ties, and in
1912 obtained an order that the Railroad pay to it $6198
as reparation for unreasonable rates, and establish a rate
for ties not to exceed its contemporaneous one for lumber
of the same kind of wood. This order was pleaded by an
amendment to the petition and it appeared at the trial
that the sum awarded had been paid. As the damage
alleged was attributed mainly to the publication and
exaction of excessive charges, the defendant insisted at

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

the trial and before the Court of Appeals upon its rights
under the Act to Regulate Commerce, and those rights
were passed upon by the court, so that there is no doubt
of the jurisdiction here, although some questions were
raised that we think it unnecessary to discuss.
The defendant contended and asked for a ruling that
in this action no damages could be allowed "on account of
defendant having charged to and collected from plaintiff
unreasonable rates of freight for the carriage of interstate
shipments of cross-ties" and'other rulings.to similar effect.
It also asked an instruction that under the Act to Regulate
Commerce it was required to collect the rates fixed by
its tariff on file and in effect. These requests were refused,
and the jury were told that if they believed that the rates
found by the Interstate Commerce Commission to be unreasonable were wilfully and maliciously maintained with
intent to injure the plaintiff's business, and that the defendant knew them to be unreasonable, and that by its
acts it tied up a part of the plaintiff's capital, and so damiged the plaintiff's business, then upon this, as well as on
several other possible findings stated, they would find for
the plaintiff. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff
for certain itemized expenses and for $50,000 damage to
plaintiff's business and credit as mentioned in the above
instruction. Judgment on the verdict was affirmed by
the Court of Appeals. 161 Kentucky, 212.
The Court of Appeals decided that the Act to Regulate
Commerce committed to the Interstate Commerce Commission only the granting of special relief against the
making of an overcharge and that the satisfaction of the
Commission's award still left open an action in the state
courts to recover what are termed general damages--such
as are supposed to have been recovered in this case. In
this we are of opinion that the court. was wrong.
By § 8 a common carrier violating the commands of the
act is made liable to the person injured thereby "for the

L. & N. R. R..CO. v. OHIO VALLEY TIE CO. 291
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

full amount of damages sustained in consequence" of the
violation. By § 9 any person so injured may make complaint to the Commission or may sue in a court of the
United States to recover the damages for which the carrier
is liable under the act, but must elect in each case which
of the two methods of procedure he will adopt. The rule
of damages in one hardly can be different from that proper
for the other. An award directing the carrier to pay to
the complainant the sum to which he is entitled is provided for by § 16. By the same section if the carrier does
not comply in due time with the order the complainant
may sue in a state court-which implies that if the order
has been complied with and the money paid no suit can
be maintained. It is to be noticed further that reparation
before answer is contemplated as possible by § 13 and in
that case the carrier shall be relieved of liability to the
complainant though only of course for the particular
violation of law. The decisions say that whatever the
damages were they could be recovered; Pennsylvania R. R.
Co. v. InternationalCoal Mining Co., 230 U. S. 184, 202,
203; Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 412, 429;
and that the statute determines the extent of damages.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Clark Brothers Coal Mining Co.,
238 U. S. 456, 472. We are of opinion that all damage
that properly can be attributed to an overcharge, whether
it be the keeping of the plaintiff out of its money, dwelt
upon by the trial court, or the damage to its business
following as a remoter result of the same cause, must be
taken to have been considered in the award of the Commission and compensated when that award was paid.
If at a new trial the plaintiff can prove that the defendant
unjustifiably refused cars or caused it other damage not attributable to the overcharge of freight, our decision does
not prevent a recovery; but it is evident that the present
judgment embraces elements that cannot be allowed.
Judgment reversed,

