DICKSON v. LUCK LAND COMPANY.
242 U. S.

Syllabus.

no basis for a review here, but the statement of one will
suffice. What the Constitution and the congressional
enactment require is that a judgment of a court of one
State, if founded upon adequate jurisdiction of the parties
and subject-matter, shall be given the same faith and
credit in a court of another State that it has by law or
usage in the courts of the State of its rendition. This presupposes that the law or usage in the latter State will be
brdught to the attention of the court in the other State
by appropriate allegation and proof, or in some other
recognized mode; for the courts of one State are not presumed to know, and therefore not bound to take judicial
notice of, the laws or usage of another State. Hanley v.
Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1; Chicago & Alton Railroadv. Wiggins Ferry Co., 119 U. S. 615; Lloyd v. Matthews, 155 U. S.
222, 227; Western Indemnity Co. v. Rupp, 235 U. S. 261,
.275. Here the law or usage in Tennessee where the judgment was rendered was not in any way brought to the
attention of the Louisiana court, and therefore an essential step in invoking the full faith and credit clause was
omitted. In this situation the claim that the Louisiana
court refused to give effect to that clause is so devoid of
merit as to be frivolous.
Writ of error dismissed.

DICKSON v. LUCK LAND COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 600.

Submitted December 6, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

Issuance of a fee simple patent for an allotment in the White Earth
Indian Reservation, Minnesota, under the clause of the Act of
March 1, 1907, c. 2285, 34 Stat. 1015, 1034, which declares that

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

such allotments when held by adult mixed-blood Indians shall be
free of restrictions on alienation and patentable in fee, implies an
administrative finding that the patentee was of age when the patent
issued.
While this finding is decisive of the allottee's age for the purpose of
sustaining his right to the title freed from the restrictions which
Congress had imposed by the allottingacts, c. 119, § 5, 24 Stat. 388;
c. 24, § 3, 25 Stat. 642, it does not conclusively establish his majority
for the purpose of determining whether a deed of the land which he)
made after patent was subject, under the state law, to disaffirmance
as a deed made in infancy.
The restrictions being removed and the fee simple patent issued, the
allottee, pursuant to the Act of May 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34 Stat. 182,
becomes subject to, and entitled to the benefit of, .the laws of the
State' governing the transfer of real property, fixing the age of
majority and declaring the disability of minors.
132 Minnesota, 396, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank Healy, M r . Clyde R. White and Mr. Charles
C. Haupt for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Marshall A. Spooner for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
A tract of land in the White Earth Indian Reservation
in the State of Minnesota is here in dispute. It was allotted and patented to a mixed-blood Chippewa Indian,
and both parties claim under him. The allotment was'
made under legislation providing that the United States
would hold the land in trust'for tfie period of twenty-five
years and at the expiration of that period would convey
the same to the allottee or his heirs by patent in fee
discharged of such trust and free of all charge or encumbrance, and also that if any conveyance should be
made of the'land, or if any contract should be made
touching the same, before the expiration of the trust

DICKSON v. LUCK LAND COMPANY.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Couit.

priod such conveyance or contract should be absolutely
null and void. 24 Stat. 388, c. 119, § 5; 25 Stat. 642, c. 24,
§ 3. Afterwards, upon the allottee's application, a fee
simple patent was issued to him under a provision in the
Act' of. March 1, 1907, c. 2285, 34 Stat. 1015, 1034, declaring: "That all restrictions as to the sale, incumbrance,
;or taxation for [of] allotments within 'the White Earth
Reservation in the State of Minnesota, heretofore or
hereafter held by adult mixed-blood Indians, are hereby
such mixed bloods upon applicaremoved, and '
tion shall be-entitled to receive a patent in fee simple for
such allotments." Following the issue of this patent, and
on dates considerably separated; the allottee executed two
deeds for the land, each to a distinct grantee. The plaintiff, in this'suit claims under the second deed and the defendant -under the first. The object of the suit is to obtain
an adjudication of these adverse claims. In the trial court
.the plaintiff prevailed and the judgment was affirmed.
132 Minnesota, 396.
In both courts the decision was put upon the ground
that the first deed was made while the allottee was a minor
and the second after he became an adult and that under
the 'law of the State the deed given during his minority
was disaffirmed and avoided by the one given after he
became an adult. The only federal question presented or
considered was whether the patent was conclusive of his
having attained his majority at that time. The defendant
contended that it was, but the ruling was the other way
and the plaintiff was permitted to show the allottee's age
by other evidence. The defendant concedes that, if the
patent was not conclusive upon that point, the judgment
must stand.
The validity of the patent is not assailed. On the contrary, both parties claim under it, one as much as the
other. Nor is it questioned that the allottee received the
full title freed from all the restrictions upon its disposal

374

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

which Congress had imposed. Thug the question for decision is whether the patent was to be taken as determining the allottee's age for any purpbse other than that of
fixing his right to receive the full title freed from all the
restrictions imposed by Congress.
There is no mention of his age in the patent, and yet it
must be taken as impliedly containing a finding that he
was then an adult. This is so, because every patent for
public or Indian lands carries with it an implied affirmation or finding of every fact made a prerequisite to its issue,
and because 'khe provision in the Act of 1907 made the
majority of te allottee a prerequisite to the issue of this
patent. But such implications, although. appropriately
and generally indulged in support of titles held under the
Government's patents (Steel v. Smelting Company, 106
U. S. 447 450 et seq.), are not regarded as otherwise hav-'
ing any conclusive or controlling force. They -are not
judgments in the sense of the rules respecting estoppel
by judgment, and we perceive no reason for giving them
any greater force or influence than has been sanctioned
by prior decisions.
The provision in the Act of 1907, under which this patent was issued, does not make for a different conclusion.
In so far as it is applicable here, it does no more than to
withdraw a particular class of allotments from the restrictions imposed by Congress and to authorize the immediate
issue of fee simple patents for them. Although saying
nothing on the point, it evidently intends that the administrative officers shall be satisfied in each .instance
before issuing the patent that the allotment belongs to the
particular class; and so the. patent when issued carries
with it an implication that those .officers found the allotment to be of that class. But the provision give no warrant for thinking that this finding should have any greater
effect or wider application than is accorded to the finding
implied from the issue of other patents.

LAKE SHORE & MICH. SO. RY. CO. v. CLOUGH.
242 U. S.

37.5

Syllabus.

We conclude,, therefore, that the administrative finding
which this patent imports was not to be taken as decisive
of the allottee's age for any purpose other than that of
fixing his right to receive the full title freed from all the
restrictions upon its disposal which Congress had imposed.
With those restrictions entirely removed and the fee
simple patent issued it would seem that the situation was
one in which all questions pertaining to the disposal of
the lands naturally would fall within .the scope and operation of the laws of the State. And that Congress so intended is shown by the Act of May 8, 1906, c. 2348, 34
Stat. 182, which provides that when an Indian allottee
is given a patent in fee for his allotment he "shall have
the benefit of and be subject to the laws, both civil and
criminal, of the State." Among the laws to which the
allottee became subject, and to the benefit of which he
became entitled, under this enactment were those governing the transfer of real property, fixing the age of majority
and declaring the disability of minors.
Judgment affirmed.

LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. CLOUGH ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.
No. 87.

Argued November 9, 10, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

By the terms of the Indiana Railway Law of May 11, 1852, and amendments (1 Ind: Rev. Stats. 1852, p. 409, § 13; 2 Bums' Ann. Ind.
Stats. 1914, §§ 5176 et seq., § 5195), as construed by the Supreme
Court of the State, the obligation assumed by companies deriving
their franchises thereunder to construct their railways over streams,
water-courses and canals "so as not to interfere with the free use
of the same," etc., is a continuing obligation, under which such

