CISSNA v. TENNESSEE.

242 U. S.

Syllabus.

The fact that the Government sues for only one fiftyseventh part of the forfeitures which had accrued under
the construction of the rule and statute contended for
by it, should make us slow to attribute to Congress a
purpose to exact what is thus admitted to be a punishment
greatly disproportionate to the offense. Statutes should
be construed, as far as possible, so that those subject to
their control may, by reference to their terms, ascertain
the measure of their duty and obligation, rather than
that such measure should be dependent upon the discretion of executive officers, to the end that ours may continue to be a Government of written laws rather than
one of official grace.
It being very clear that it is not the purpose of the law
under discussion to punish honest mistakes, made in a
genuinely doubtful case, the decision of the Circuit Court
of Appeals is
Afflrmed.

CISSNA v. STATE OF TENNESSEE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
TENNESSEE.
No. 89. Argued November 10, 1916.-Reargument ordered December 11,
1916.
The jurisdiction of this court being here challenged; and it appearing
that the facts presented are identical with those on which depends
a suit over boundary, brought by the State of Arkansas against the
State of Tennessee (defendant in error herein) while this case was
pending in the courts of the latter State; that a decision of this case
upon the merits will be equivalent to a decision of the boundary
controversy and that an affirmance of the judgment will dispose of
the avails of nearly or quite all the lands involved in that case and
this; Ordered, that this case be restored to the docket and be assigned

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

for hearing immediately after the boundary case; and that upon a
stipulation of the facts of that case by the parties thereto, both cases
will be taken on briefs if all parties consent, or advanced for early
argument if they prefer.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. CaruthersEwing for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John P. Bullington, with whom Mr. Frank M.
Thompson, Attorney General of the State of Tennessee,
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
As owner in trust for the people of the State of certain
described lands, the State of Tennessee in a state court
commenced this action in 1903 against Cissna and others
to recover the lands and to restrain cutting timber thereon
and for an accounting for timber already cut. A temporary injunction was granted against removing and cutting timber, which was modified by permitting, on the
giving of a bond, the removal of timber already cut, and
was subsequently again modified by allowing all the timber
on the land to be cut and removed on the giving of an
additional bond. By pleas in abatement and answers the
jurisdiction of the court was denied on the ground that
the lands were not in Tennessee but in Arkansas and this
was sustained and the suit dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The Supreme Court of the State, however, reversed this action and remanded the case for trial on the
merits. 119 Tennessee, 47.
The pleadings were amended in the trial court and while
the case was there undetermined the State of Arkansas
filed in this court its complaint against Tennessee to settle

CISSNA v. TENNESSEE.
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the boundary line between the two. The bill made reference to the suit pending in Tennessee and alleged that
the lands embraced by that suit were in Arkansas subject
to its sovereignty and denied the power of the State of
Tennessee in its own courts to interfere with the lawful
authority of the State of Arkansas. Thereafter, the existence of the suit in this court was alleged in the state
court and that court was asked to suspend proceedings
until the decision in the boundary case. This was denied
and a judgment was entered in favor of the State of Tennessee, holding that the lands were in Tennessee and belonged to that State and this judgment was subsequently
affirmed by the Supreme Court of the State. In that court
also the pendency of the original suit between the two
States in this court was specially set up and an application for suspension of proceedings based on the fact was
prayed but was refused. The judgment of the Supreme
Court of the State not only decreed the lands to belong to
the State of Tennessee in its sovereign capacity, on the
ground that they were situated within that State, but
gave a recovery for the amount of the timber cut before
the bringing of the suit and also for the money value of
the balance of the timber on the lands which had been
cut and removed as the result of the modification of the
injunction permitting that to be done.
At the threshold jurisdiction to review the judgment
thus rendered is denied on the ground that no federal
question arises for decision.
It is conceded in argument by both parties that the
decision of the merits of this case will necessarily be the
equivalent of a decision of the boundary suit pending on
our original calendar between the two States and that an
affirmance of the money judgment below will in substance
be an award for virtually the entire avails of the lands
in suit in this case as well as of the greater part, if not all,
of the lands to be affected in the boundary suit. More-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

212 U. S

over, in substance it is not disputed that thc facts here
prcsented are identical with those upon which the solution
of the boundary suit must depend. Under these conditions we think, without intimating an opinion on the
question of jurisdiction raised in this case or on the merits,
that we ought not to consider and pass upon this case
without at the same time considering and passing upon
the controversy concerning the boundary between the two
States now pending on our docket. The identity of the
two issues, the possible influence which the decision of
the one would have on the rights pending in the other
and the fact that the actor, the State of Tennessee, in this
suit is the defendant in the original suit, we think render
that conclusion necessary.
For these reasons we direct that this case be restored to
the docket and that it be hereafter assigned for hearing
at the same time and immediately after the coming on
for hearing of the original boundary suit between the two
States. And to the end that that hearing may be expedited, we say in addition, first, that if the facts in the
boundary case be stipulated by the parties either by reference to the facts shown in this case or otherwise, both
the cases will be taken on submission on printed briefs,
if the parties are so advised; or second, if they are not so
advised, upon an agreement and stipulation as to the
facts in the boundary case, that case and this will be
ordered advanced and assigned for oral argument at an
early day.
And it is so ordered.

