LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE R. R. CO. v. PARKER.
242 U. S.

13

Syllabus.

sequently that the decree must be reversed. See Hobbs v.
McLean, 117 U. S. 567. Burnett v. Jersey City, 31 N. J.
Eq. 341. Fortunato v. Patten, 147 N. Y. 277.
Decree reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents for the reasons stated

by the Circuit Court of Appeals.

LOUISVILLE AND NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. PARKER, ADMINISTRATOR OF PARKER.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 330. Submitted November 1, 1916.-Decided November 13, 1916.
Plaintiff's intestate was killed while moving an engine with attached
intrastate car. There was evidence, strong but not conclusive, that
the purpose of the movement was to reach and move another car
in interstate commerce. i Not asking to have this considered by the
jury, defendant unsuccessfully insisted that the trial judge deal with
the case as a case of interstate commerce governed by the Federal
Employers' Liability Act. The case went to the jury as one dependent on the state law, and there was a money -verdict which
admittedly could not be sustained if the federal act applied.
Held that not the intrastate character of the moving car, as erroneously
held by the court below, but the purpose of the operation involving
the movement, must determine whether deceased was engaged in
interstate commerce.
That the purpose was for the jury to determine; and defendant, not
having sought the jury, or made any request or objection in the
trial court which was not rightly overruled, could not complain of
the verdict.
165 Kentucky, 658, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Benjamin D. Warfield for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward C. O'Rear, with whom Mr. J. M. Robsion
and Mr. B. G. Williams were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLMES

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The plaintiff's intestate was a fireman upon a switching
engine which was moving upon a switch track. A caboose
stood upon the main track so near to where the engine
moved that the deceased struck it and was killed. His
administrator brought this action against the Railroad,
the plaintiff in error, for causing the intestate's death
and got a verdict which, it is admitted, cannot be sustained if the deceased was engaged in interstate commerce.
The dealings of the state courts with that question are
the ground for the present writ of error. The judgment
for the plaintiff was affirmed by the Court of Appeals,
165 Kentucky, 658.
The business upon which the deceased was engaged
at the moment was transferring an empty car from one
switch track to another. This car was not moving in
interstate commerce, and that fact was treated as conclusive by the Court of Appeals. In this the court was
in error, for if, as there was strong evidence to show, and
as the court seemed to assume, this movement was simply
for the purpose of reaching and moving an interstate car,
the purpose would control and the business would be
interstate. The difference is marked between a mere
expectation that the act done would be followed by other
work of a different character, as in Illinois Central R. R.
Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473, 478, and doing the act for

SEABOARD AIR LINE RY. v. CITY OF RALEIGH.
242 U. S.

15

Syllabus.

the purpose of furthering the later work. See New York
Central & Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Carr, 238 U. S. 260,
263. Pennsylvania Company v. Donat, 239 U. S. 50. Kalem
Co. v. Harper Bros., 222 U. S. 55, 62, 63.
But it is necessary to see how the case was dealt
with
in the trial court. The Railroad Company did not ask
to go to the jury on the question whether the deceased
was engaged in interstate commerce. It simply asked
the court to direct a verdict, on the ground among others,
that it appeared as matter of law that he was so engaged.
But if the question had been left to the jury and they
had disbelieved the testimony that the empty car was
moved for the ulterior purpose of interstate commerce
there would have been no error of law in allowing a verdict for the plaintiff to stand. It is true that the Judge
seems to have assumed that the business in hand was
intrastate, but the only objection indicated was to his
not ruling the contrary and as the Railroad did not ask
to go to the jury and the only ruling requested was properly denied the judgment must stand.
Judgment affirmed.

SEABOARD AIR LINE RAILWAY v. CITY OF
RALEIGH.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
No. 59.

Argued November 1, 1916.-Decided November 20, 1916.

Herein the action of the Board of Aldermen of the City of Raleigh in
assuming to grant to a railroad company "permission to occupy"
a sidewalk with a spur track is held, in the circumstances stated in
the opinion, to have amounted at most to the conferring of a mere
revocable license.

