OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

dated under the state law, and engaged in both interstate
and intrastate commerce.
We find nothing in the amount or character of the tax
which makes it a burden upon interstate commerce, and
so beyohd the authority of the State to impose. It results that the judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama
must be
Affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD COMPANY v.
SONMAN SHAFT COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 10. Argued May 14, 1915; restored to docket for reargument June 14,
1915; reargued October 25, 1915.-Decided December 4, 1916.
The duty of a carrier to furnish cars for coal to be loaded at the mine
and forwarded promptly for delivery to purchasers in other States
is a duty in interstate commerce, notwithstanding the sale of the
coal is f. o. b. at the mine.
If no administrative question is involved, a claim for damages for
failure, upon reasonable request, to furnish to a shipper in interstate
commerce cars sufficient to meet his needs may be enforced in a
state as well as a federal court, and without preliminary finding by
the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Such remedy is preserved by § 22 of the Interstate Commerce Act.
The modes of redress provided by §§ 8 and 9 are not exclusive.
Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Puritan Coal Co., 237 U. S. 121.
Where relevant conditions of trade and transportation are normal, it
is the duty of the carrier, upon reasonable demand, to furnish a
shipper in interstate commerce sufficient cars to satisfy the actual
needs of his business. That duty, in this case, existed under the
common law until the date of the Hepburn Act, and continued thereafter under a provision of that act which, so far as concerns this case,
amounts to an adoption of the common law. Act of June 29, 1906,
§ 1, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584.

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. v. SONMAN COAL CO.
242 U. S.

121

Opinion of the Court.

It is only in times of car shortage resulting from unusual demands or
other abnormal conditions, not reasonably to have been foreseen,
that car distribution rules originating with the carrier can be regarded as qualifying or affecting the right of a shipper to demand
and receive cars commensurate in number with his needs. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Puritan Coal Co., supra.
Evidence that throughout the period covered by alleged failures to
supply cars, many cars of the carrier which otherwise would have
been available to shippers on the carrier's lines were on the lines of
other railroad companies as the result of through routings and joint
rates, has no tendency to prove that the carrier supplied the complaining shipper with the cars to which he was entitled or to mitigate
its default in that regard.
241 Pa. St. 487, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Francis I. Gowen and Mr. John G. Johnson, with
whom Mr. F. D. McKenney was on the briefs, for plaintiff
in error.
Mr. A. M. Liveright and Mr. A. L. Cole for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
The coal company brought this action to recover damages from the railroad company upon two grounds, first,
that for a period of four years, beginning April 1, 1903,
the railroad company had failed to supply the coal company with a sufficient number of cars to meet the needs
of the latter's coal mine; and, second, that during the same
period the railroad company, in furnishing cars to the
several mines in that district, had discriminated unjustly
agairist the coal company and in favor of some of its competitors. The second g(ound was eliminated by the coal
company at the trial and does not require further notice.
The action was begun in a state court and resulted in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

judgment for the coal company for $145,830.25, which
the Supreme Court of the State affirmed. 241 Pa. St. 487.
The questions presented by the several assignments
of error are: (1) What was the nature of the commerce
involved? (2) If the commerce was interstate, was the
action cognizable in a state court? (3) Was prejudicial
error committed in excluding evidence presently to be
mentioned?
The coal company sold its coal f. o. b. cars at the mine,
and when the cars were loaded the coal was promptly
forwarded to the purchasers at points within and without
the State-largely to points in other States. This was
well understood by both companies-by the coal company
when it asked for cars and by the railroad company when
it supplied them. Cars were not requested or furnished
merely to be used in holding or storing coal, but always
to be employed in its immediate transportation. While
furnishing some cars for this service, the railroad company
failed to furnish as many as the coal company needed and
requested. It is plain that supplying the requisite cars
was an essential step in the intended movement of the
coal and a part of the commerce-whether interstate or
intrastate-to which that movement belonged. It was
expressly so held in Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. Clark Coal
Co., 238 U. S. 456, 465-468. We there said of the sale and
delivery of coal f. o. b. at the mine for transportation to
purchasers in other States: "The movement thus initiated
is an interstate movement and the facilities required are
facilities of interstate commerce." Here the state court
ruled that, as the coal was sold f. o. b. at the mine, the
commerce involved was intrastate, even though the coal
-was going to purchasers outside the State. This was error,
but it plainly was without prejudice unless it led the state
court to exercise a jurisdiction which it did not possess.
In the courts below the railroad company contended
that, in so far as the commerce involved was interstate,

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. v. SONMAN COAL CO. 123
242 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the action could not be entertained by a state court consistently with the Interstate Commerce Act, c. 104, 24
Stat. 379; and that contention is renewed here. It proceeds upon the theory, first, that the coal company was
without any right to redress in respect of its interstate
business unless the failure to supply it with the requisite
cars was a violation of some provision of that act; second,
that §§ 8 and 9 of the act prescribe the only modes of
obtaining redress for violations of its provisions, and,
third, that an action for damages in a state court is not
among the modes prescribed.
It is true that §§ 8 and 9 deal with the redress of injuries resulting from violations of the act and give the person
injured a right either to make complaint to the Interstate
Commerce Commission or to bring an action for damages
in a federal court, but not to do both. If the act said
nothing more on the subject it well may be that no action
for damages resulting from a violation of the act could
be entertained by a state court. But the act shows that
§§ 8 and 9 did not completely express the will of Congress
as respects the injuries for which redress may be had or
the modes in which it may be obtained, for § 22 contains
this important provision: "Nothing in this act contained
shall in any way abridge or alter the remedies now existing at common law or by statute, but the provisions
of this act are in addition to such remedies." The three
sections, if broadly construed, are not altogether harmonious, and yet it evidently is intended that all shall be
operative. Only by reading them together and in connection with the act as a whole can the real purpose of
each be seen.. They often have been considered and what
they mean has become pretty well settled. Thus we have
held that a manifest purpose of the provision in § 22 is to
make it plain that such "appropriate common law or
statutory remedies" as can be enforced consistently with
the scheme and purpose of the act are not abrogated or

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

displaced, Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil
Co., 204 U. S. 426, 446-447; that this provision is not
intended to nullify other parts of the act, or to defeat rights
or remedies given by earlier sections, but to preserve all
existing rights not inconsistent with those which the act
creates, Pennsylvania R. R. Co. V. Puritan Coal Co., 237
U. S. 121, 129; that the act does not supersede the jurisdiction of state courts in any case, new or old, where the
decision does not involve the determination of matters
calling for the exercise of the administrative power and
discretion of the Interstate Commerce Commission, or
relate to a subject as to which the jurisdiction of the
federal courts is otherwise made exclusive, ibid. 130;
that claims for damages arising out of the application, in
interstate commerce, of rules for distributing cars in
times of shortage, call for the exercise of the administrative authority of the Commission where the rule is
assailed as unjustly discriminatory, but where the assault
is not against the rule but against its unequal and discriminatory application, no administrative question is presented and the claim may be prosecuted in either a federal
or a state court without any precedent action by the Commission, ibid. 131-132; and that, if no administrative
question be involved, as well may be the case, a claim for
damages for failing upon reasonable request to furnish
to a shipper in interstate commerce a sufficient number of
cars to satisfy his needs, may be enforced in either a
federal or a state court without any preliminary finding
by the Commission, and this whether the carrier's default
was a violation of its common law duty existing prior to
the Hepburn Act of .1906, or of the duty prescribed by
that act,' ilid. 132-135; Eastern Ry. Co. v. Littlefield,
237 U. S. 140, 143; Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. Mulberry
and the term 'transportation' shall include cars
"SEc. 1. . .
and other vehicles and all intrumentalitieg and facilities of shipment
or carriage, . . . ; and it shall be the duty of every carrier subject

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. v. SONMAN COAL CO.
242 U. S.

125

Opinion of the Court.

Hill Coal Co., 238 U. S. 275, 283; PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v.
Clark Coal Co., 238 U. S. 456, 472.
Applying these rulings to the case in hand, we are of
opinion that a state court could entertain the action consistently with the Interstate Commerce Act. Not only
does the provision in § 22 make strongly for this conclusion, but a survey of the scheme of the act and of what it
is intended* to accomplish discloses no real support for
the opposing view. With the charge of unjust discrimination eliminated, the ground upon which a recovery was
sought was that for a period of four years, during which
the conditions were normal, the carrier had failed upon
reasonable demand to supply to a shipper in interstate
commerce a sufficient number of cars to transport the
output of the latter's coal mine. Assuming that the conditions were normal and the demand reasonable, it was
the duty of the carrier to have furnished the cars. That
duty arose from the common law up to the date of the
amendatory statute of 1906, known as the Hepburn
Act, and thereafter from a provision in that act which,
for present purposes, may be regarded as merely adopting
the common law rule. There was evidence tending to
show, and the jury found, that the conditions in the coal
trade were normal and the demand for the cars reasonable. Indeed, without objection from the carrier, the
court said when charging the jury: "There is, no testimony disputing the claim of the plaintiff that these were
normal times." The carrier insisted and the jury found
that the carrier had a generally ample car supply for the
needs of the coal traffic under normal conditions, and the
jury further found that the failure to furnish the cars
demanded was without justifiable excuse. Thus far it
is apparent that no administrative question was involvednothing which the act intends shall be passed upon by the
to the provisions of this Act to provide and furnish such transportation
upon reasonable request therefor,

.

.

..
"

c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

Commission either to the exclusion of the courts or as a
necessary condition to judicial action. But there was testimony tending to show that the
carrier was applying or following a rule for allotting cars
which did not entitle the coal company to receive as many
cars as it needed and requested, 'and because of this it is
contended that the reasonableness of this rule was in
issue and was an administrative question which the act
intends, that the Commission shall solve. We cannot accede to the contention. The conditions in the coal trade.
being normal, as just shown, the number of cars to which
the coal company was entitled was to be measured by its
reasonable requests based upon its actual needs. It is
only in times of car shortage resulting from unusual demands or other abnormal conditions, not reasonably to
have been foreseen, that car distribution rules originating
with the carrier can be regarded as qualifying or affecting
the right of a shipper to demand and receive cars commensurate in number with his needs. Pennsylvania R. R.
Co. v. Puritan Coal Co., 237 U. S. 121, 133. Such a rule
being inapplicable in the conditions existing at the time,
the rule mentioned in the testimony could not be a factor
in the decision of the case, and whether in a time of unforeseen car shortage it would be reasonable or otherwise
was not then material.
Upon the trial the carrier offered to prove by a witness
then under examination . . . "that during all of the
period of this action the defendant had in effect .
through routes and joint rates to points outside the State
of Pennsylvania on the lines of other common carriers;
that it was obliged to permit cars loaded by its shippers
with bituminous coal consigned to such points outside the
State of Pennsylvania to go through to destination, even
when on the lines of other railroad companies; that as a
result of doing this it had continuously throughout the
period of this action a large number of cars off its own lines

PENNSYLVANIA R. R. v. SONMAN COAL CO.
242 U. S.

127

Opinion of the Court.

and on the lines of other common carriers, which cars would
otherwise have been available for shippers of coal on the
railroad lines of the defendant and these cars if not on other
railroad lines would have increased the equipment available for distribution to the plaintiff's mine and would
consequently have diminished the damage which plaintiff
claims to have sustained by reason of the fact that it
did not receive more cars than it did receive."
But on the coal company's objection the evidence was
excluded. We think the ruling was right. The offer
did not point to any unusual or abnormal condition, not
reasonably to have been foreseen, but, on the contrary,
to a situation which was described as continuous throughout tle four year period to which the action relates. It
did not indicate that this condition was even peculiar
to that period, or was caused by an extraordinary volume
of coal traffic or an unusual detention of cars on other
lines of railroad, or that it was other than a normal incident of the coal transportation in which the carrier was
engaged. Without doubt the cars of this carrier when
loaded with coal often went forward to destinations on
the lines of other carriers. It is common knowledge that
coal transportation has been conducted quite generally
in this way for many years. Besides, a carrier extensively
engaged in such transportation from mines along its lines,
as this one was, naturally would expect to have a considerable number of cars on other lines in the ordinary course
of business. Although possibly having a bearing upon the
adequacy of the supply of cars provided by the carrier
for the coal business as a whole,-a matter not within the
contemplation of the offer,-it is certain that what was
proposed to be proved had no tendency to show that the
carrier had supplied to the coal company the number of
cars to which it was entitled or to mitigate the carrier's
default in that regard.
Judgment affirmed.

