OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

come within the exception. It is urged that the malice
referred to in the exception is malice towards the individual
personally, such as is meant, for instance, in a statute for
maliciously injuring or destroying property, or for malicious mischief, where more intentional injury without
special malice towards the individual has been held by
some courts not to be sufficient. Commonwealth v. Williams, 110 Massachusetts, 401. We are not inclined to
place such a narrow construction upon the language of the
exception. We do not think the language used was intended to limit thte exception in any such way. It was an
honest debtor and not a malicious wrongdoer that was to
be discharged."
The circumstances disclosed suffice to show a wilful
and malicious injury to property for which plaintiff in
error became and remains liable to respond in damages.
The judgment below is

Affirmed.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v.
McLAUGHLIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF POCAHONTAS COUNTY,
STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 100.

Argued November 14, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

A stipulation in a "uniform live stock contract" signed and accepted

by both shipper and carrier to govern an interstate shipment, and
declaring in effect that the carrier shall not be liable for loss or dam-,
age unless a claim therefor be made in writingi verified by affidavit,
and delivered to a designated agent of the carrier at his office, in a
place named, within five days of the removal of the stock from the
cars, is on its face unobjectionable and, in the absence of any proof
of circumstances tending to render it invalid or excuse a failure to
comply with it, will be enforced.

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO RY. CO. v. McLAUGHLIN. 143
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. B. Enslow, with whom Mr. Herbert Fitzpatrick
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
No appearance or,brief filed for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
McLaughlin recovered judgment against the railway
company in the Circuit Court, Pocahontas County, West
Virginia, for injuries to a horse which it transported from
Lexington, Kentucky, and delivered to him at Seebert,
West Virginia, February 17, 1914.
The shipment was under a "uniform live stock contract" signed by both parties and introduced in evidence
by defendant in error which among other things provides:
"That no claim for damages which may accrue to the
said shipper under this contract shall be allowed or paid
by the said carrier or sued for in any Court by the said
shipper, unless claim for such loss or damage shall be made
in writing, verified by the affidavit of the said shipper or
his agent and delivered to the General Claim Agent of
the said carrier at his office in Richmond, Va., within five
days from the time said stock is removed from said car
or cars; and that if any loss or damages occur upon the
line of a connecting carrier then such carrier shall not be
liable unless a claim shall be made in like manner and
delivered in like time to some proper officer or agent of
the carrier on whose line the loss or injury occurs."
It conclusively appears that McLaughlin did not present a verified claim to the carrier's agent as provided
by the contract. Upon its face the agreement seems to be
unobjectionable and nothing in the record tends to establish circumstances rendering it invalid or excuse failure

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

to comply therewith. The court below erred in denying
a seasonable request for a directed verdict; and its judgment must be reversed. Our recent opinions render
unnecessary any further discussion of the reasons for this
conclusion. Northern Pacific Railway Co. v. Wall, 241
U. S. 87; Georgia, Florida & Alabama Railway Co. v.
Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190; Cincinnati,New Orleans
& Texas Pacific Railway Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S. 319.
Reverse and remand for further proceedings ,not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. CAPITAL TRUST COMPANY, ADMINISTRATOR OF
WARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 107.

Submitted November 15, 1916.-Decided December 4, 1916.

Such pain and suffering as are substantially contemporaneous with
death or mere incidents to it, as also the short periods of insensibility which sometimes intervene between fatal injuries and death,
afford no basis for a separate estimation or award of damages under
the Employers' Liability Act, as amended by the Act of April 5,
1910. St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648, 655.
Although an error not challenged in the State Supreme Court may
not be relied on here as a ground of reversal, it is proper for this
court to point it out in anticipation of a possible new trial.
Under the Employers' Liability Act, as amended April 5, 1910, when
the personal representative unites a claim for the injury suffered by
the decedent with a claim for losses resulting to the beneficiaries
from his death, the damages recoverable under the former claim are
limited to such as will reasonably compensate for the loss and suffering of the injured person while he lived, and it is error to permit

