O

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Syllabus.

242 U. S.

Company, May, 1910, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad was enjoined by the United States District Court,
Northern District of Florida, from removing or disposing
of 1950 bales of cotton then in its possession at Pensacola,
Florida, and claimed by Westphalen and Company.
Afterwards that firm instituted an original suit to recover,
pending which, under agreement, the cotton was sold and
the proceeds deposited in two banks at Pensacola subject
to final judgment. The proceedings were substantially
the same as in Number 259 and like action was taken by
the court. The judgment below is
Affirmed.

FURNESS, WITHY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
v. YANG-TSZE
INSURANCE ASSOCIATION,
LIMITED, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FO

THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 106.

Argued December 18, 19, 1916.-Decided January 8, 1917.

Petitions for writs of certiorari are at 'the risk of the parties making
them, and whenever in the progress of the cause facts develop which
if disclosed on the application would have induced a refusal, the
court may upon motion by a party or ex mero motu dismiss the writ.
Such petitions should be carefully prepared, contain appropriate
references to the record, and present with studied accuracy, brevity
and clearness whatever is essential to ready and adequate understanding of points requiring the court's attention.
When the real situation is not set forth by the petition, a duty rests oi
opposing counsel to reveal it in their reply.
Writ of certiorari to review 215 Fed. Rep. 859, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

FURNESS, WITHY & CO. v. YANG-TSZE INS. ASS'N. 431
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Norman B. Beecher, with whom Mr. Charles C.
Burlingham and Mr. Roscoe H. Hupper were on the briefs,
for petitioner.
Mr. D. Roger Englar and Mr. J. Parker Kirlin, with
whom Mr. Lawrence Kneeland, Mr. John M. Woolsey and
Mr. William H. McGrann were on the briefs, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The writ of, certiorari was improvidently granted and
must be dismissed. We should have denied the petition
therefor if the facts essential to an adequate appreciation
to the situation had then been brought to our attention.
Petitions of this character are at the risk of the party
making them, and whenever in the progress of the cause
facts develop which if disclosed on the application would
have induced a refusal, the court may upon motion by a
party or ex mero motu dismiss the writ. United States v.
Rimer, 220 U. S. 547; State v. Water Commissioners, 1
Vroom (30 N. J. L.), 247.
In February, 1912, the Yang-Tsze Insurance Association, Limited, filed its libel in the District Court at New
York against Furness, Withy and Company, Limited,
owner of the Pomaron, to recover damages consequent
upon the sinking of the Alleghany. A judgment for
libellant rendered June 13, 1913, was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals in June, 1914; and on October 5,
1914, the Pomaron's owner instituted a proceeding in the
same District Court for limitation of liability and the
steps customary in such causes were regularly taken.
April 12, 1915, the petitioner presented an original application here for a writ of certiorari to bring up the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in the damage cause
and this was denied April 19th.

OCTOBERTERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

242 U. S.

It now appears that, on April 22, 1915, a final decree
containing the following recitals was entered by the District Court in the limitation proceedings-" Whereas the
petitioner and all the claimants herein have compromised
and settled the issues between them, and in consideration
of the said compromise and settlement it has been agreed
between the petitioner and all the claimants:" (The
terms follow.) "Whereas in consideration of the said
compromise and settlement, the several claimants herein
by agreement have fixed and adjusted the amounts of
their several losses consequent on the said collision at the
following sums, to-wit:" (The amounts are specified.)
"Now on the subjoined admissions of correctness of the
foregoing recitals and the subjoined consents and waivers
of settlement in respect of the entry of this decree made by
the proctors for all claimants herein
it is ordered, adjudged and decreed," etc.
The following signed by all the proctors is subjoined to
:the decree: "The undersigned proctors for all the parties
herein hereby admit the truth of the recitals contained in
the foregoing decree and consent to the entry thereof,
without further notice."
Petitioner's second application for certiorari which was
presented June 1, 1915, and granted on the 14th of that
month, contains these statements:
"On May 10, 1915, as your petitioner is informed, this
Court granted a writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of
A 'eals for the Ninth Circuit upon the petition of Olaf
Lie, master of the Norwegian steamship Selja, in a suit
between said Olaf Lie, master, etc., and the San Francisco
& Portland Steamship Company, etc."
"Your petitioner now renews its application for certiorari for the reason that the questions presented by its
petition are identical with those presented by the petition
of Olaf Lie. The principal question is whether under this
Court's decision in The Pennsylvania, 19 Wall. 125, a

FURNESS, WITHY & CO. v. YANG-TSZE INS. ASS'N. 433
242 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

privileged vessel, which before a collision with a burdened
vessel ported her helm in violation (prima facie, at least)
of Article 21 of the International Regulations may be held
responsible for the collision,
"Subsequent to the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals your petitioner instituted proceedings for limitation of liability, which, after the denial by this Court of
the original petition, were prosecuted to a decree under
which payments were made to the respondents by the
Clerk of the District Court. As these payments were made
under compulsion they would be recoverable by your
petitioner in the event that this Court should reverse the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals."
In their memorandum opposing the second petition for
certiorari, counsel for the Insurance Association said,
"The case is settled and closed." .And after referring to
steps taken in the limitation proceeding and quoting from
the decree therein, dated April 22, 1915, they added,
"All the claimants have been paid the respective proportions of the fund ascertained to be due to them, and have
executed receipts of discharge in the terms provided by
-the decree. The case is, therefore, finally closed and
settled as between all the parties, and such settlements
have been made without any reservation of rights on the
part of the petitioner."
We were not advised by petition of June 1, 1915, or
memorandum opposing it that the final decree in the
limitation proceedings was based upon an express compromise agreement; otherwise the writ would not have
been allowed. At the hearing counsel expressed different
views concerning the ultimate effect of that decree and
the reasons for its form; and they made it quite plain that
there was no purpose to mislead us. Nevertheless, in the
circumstances, we think it was incumbent upon counsel
for both sides to see that the petition and reply thereto
disclosed the real situation. The oversight has re-

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

242 U. S.

sulted in unfortunate delay and needless consumption of
time.
During the last term one hundred fifty-four petitions for
certiorari were presented and acted upon. Because of
recent legislation-Act of September 6, 1916, c. 448, 39
Stat. 726-their number hereafter may greatly increase.
Such petitions go first to every member of the court for
examination, and are then separately considered in conference. This duty must be promptly discharged. We are
not aided by oral arguments and necessarily rely in an
especial way upon petitions, replies and supporting
briefs. Unless these are carefully prepared, contain
appropriate references to the record and present with
studied accuracy, brevity and clearness whatever is essential
to ready and adequate understanding of points requiring
our attention, the rights of interested parties may be
prejudiced and, the court will be impeded in its efforts
properly to dispose of the causes which constantly crowd
its docket.
Dismissed.

WILLIAMS, CHIEF, ET AL. v. CITY OF CHICAGO
ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 128. Argued December 22, 1916.-Decided January 8,1917.

At the date of the Treaty of Greenville, August 3, 1795, 7 Stat. 49, the
right of the Pottawatomie Nation in lands on and near the shore of
Lake Michigan now in Illinois was no more than a right of occupation.
If the occupancy ever extended to lands formerly submerged in the
lake such as are the subject of this litigation, the. court notices his-

