PITTMAN v. HOME OWNERS' CORP.

21

Argument for Petitioner.

PITTMAN., CLERK OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
OF BALTIMORE, v. AIOME OWNERS' LOAN
CORP.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF MARYLAND.

No. 10.

Argued October 12, 13, 1939.-Decided November 6, 1939.

1. The Maryland tax on mortgages, graded according to the amount
of the loan-secured and imposedin addition to the ordinary registration fee as a condition to the recordation of the instrument,
can not be applied to a mortgage tendered for record by the Home
Owners' Loan Corporation and securing one of its loans, in view
of the provisions of the Home Owners' Loan Act which declare
the Corporation to be an instrumentality of the United States
and that its loans shall be exempt from all state and municipal
taxes. FederalLand Bank v. Crosland, 261 U. S. 374. P. 29.

2. Assuming that the creation of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation was a constitutional exercise of the power of Congress, the
activities of the Corporation through which the Government lawfully acts must be regarded as governmental functions and entitled
to whatever immunity attaches to those functions when performed by the Government itself through its departments. P. 32.
The power, of Congress to create a corporation to facilitate
the performance of governmental functions implies a power to
protect the operations thus validly authorized, which comes within
the range of the express power conferred by Const. Art. I, § 8, cl.
18, to make all laws necessary and proper for carrying into executicn all powers' vested by the Constitutiofi in the Government.
In the exercise of this power to protect, Congress has the dominant authority which necessarily inheres in its action within the
national field.
175 Md. 512; 2 A. 2d 689, affirmed.

306 U. S.628, to review a judgment affirming the issuance of a mandamus by Baltimore City Court
requiring the Clerk of the Superior Court of Baltimore
to record a mortgage.
CERTIORARI,

Messrs. H. Vernon Eney, Assistant Attorney General
of Maryland, and William. C. Walsh,'Attorney General,

Argument for Petitioner.

308 U. S.

with whom Mr. William L. Henderson, Deputy Attorney
General, was on the brief, for petitioner.
The tax is uniform and does not discriminate against
the Corporation or the United States.
The tax is not a burden on the Corporation since it
could be, and customarily is, paid by the mortgagor.
If the tax is paid by the mortgagor, the effect on the
Corporation of collecting the tax from the mortgagor,
and the slight increase in the cost of its operations which
this might entail, are so speculative, remote and uncertain
as to constitute no burden at all in the constitutional
sense. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 436;
Union Pacific Railroad v. Peniston, 18 Wall. 5, 30; Metcalf & Eddy v. Mitchell, 269 U. S. 514, 523-524; Willcuts
v. Bunn, 282 U. S. 216, 225; Educational Films Corp. v.
Ward, 282 U. S. 379, 391-392; Fox Film Corp. v. Doyal,
286 U. S. 123, 128; Indian Territory Illuminating Oil Co.
v. Board of Equalization,288 U. S. 325, 327-328; Schuylkill Trust Co. v. Pennsylvania,296 U. S. 113, 127; United
States v. California,297 U. S. 175. In all of these cases
the Court has avoided an extension of immunity from
tax for fear of crippling the taxing power of either the
States or the Federal Government.
The immunity exists only to the extent necessary to
prevent undue interference with the operations of the
Federal Government. The tax must have a direct and
immediate effect upon the operations of the governmental instrumentality; it must restrict, retard, impede
or obstruct its activities.
We rely upon James v. Dravo Contracting Co., 302
U. S. 134; Silas Mason Co. v. State Tax Commission,
302 U. S. 186; Atkinson v. State Tax Commission, 303
U. S. 20; Helvering v. Mountain Producers Corp., 303
U. S. 376; Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405; Allen v.
Regents of University System of Georgia, 304 U. S. 439;
and Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466.

PITTMAN v. HOME OWNERS' CORP.
21

Argument for Petitioner.

From a reading of these cases it is clear that the present
tendency is to scrutinize any claim to immunity and
allow it only when it is abundantly clear that, otherwise,
an unreasonable burden would be imposed on a governmental agency. This is particularly true where immunity would .,result in a benefit to a private person, butwhere the burden, if any, on the governmental agency is
remote and speculative.
The activities of this Corporation are such that this
non-discriminatory tax, laid upon it as well as upon private agencies operating in the money lending field, would
not retard, impede or obstruct the operations of the Corporation. South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S.
437; Allen v. Regents of University System of Georgia,
304 U. S. 439.
The distinction drawn, in the case of state agencies,
between those exercising proprietary functions and those
exercising governmental functions seems to come to no
more than this: In the one case it is not necessary to
inquire whether a particular federal tax is or is not a
burden, for there is no implied constitutional immunity.
On the other hand, if a state agency is exercising a governmental function, there is immunity from a tax which
is found upon inquiry to impose a direct and palpable
burden. The only difference to be noted in dealing with
federal agencies is that the Court does not consider that
any of them may not be governmental and hence it is
necessary in each case to inquire whether or not the state
tax in fact does impose a direct and palpable burden
upon the federal agency.
Even though the Home Owners' Loan Corporation is
a governmental agency, it is still necessary to determine
whether or not the challenged tax imposes a direct and
palpable burden upon the federal agency, so as to retard,
obstruct or impede it in the performance of the functions
delegated to it by Congress. The nature of those func-

OCTOBER. TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioner.

308 U. S.

tions must be examined, and the benefit to be derived
from immunity weighed against the detriment to the
State, which is cobperating with the Federal Government
in the attainment of common governmental ends.
We can not close our eyes to the fact that the Federal
Government is daily broadening the sphere of its activities. It is constantly setting up agencies which compete
with private agencies engaging in similar activities.
Carried far enough, an immunity from tax would deprive
the States of their sources of revenues. This is not necessary for the protection of the Federal Government in
the performance of the functions delegated to it by the
Constitution.
The Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933 does not purport
to confer upon the Corporation an immunity from the
Maryland tax.
If construed to confer that immunity it is, to that extent, unconstitutional and void. Congress has no power
to confer upon agencies of the Federal Government an
immunity from state taxation which is broader and more
extensive than the implied constitutional immunity.
Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466.

Assuming that Congress has the power to authorize the
creation of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation to assist
needy home owners by refinancing mortgages on their
homes, it is, we submit, clear that an immunity from the
Maryland recordation tax is not necessary or needful to
protect the agency in the performance of that function.
If an immunity from taxation is necessary to protect
a federal agency in the performance of a governmental
function devolved upon it by Act of Congress, then any
tax which interferes with the performance of the function
constitutes a burden upon the federal agency.

If so,

there is an implied constitutional immunity from the tax.
On the other hand, if the tax does not so interfere, then

PITTMAN v. HOME OWNERS' CORP.
21

Argument for Petitioner.

it constitutes no burden on the agency and there is no
implied constitutional immunity from the tax. But in
this event there would be no necessity for an immunity
to protect the federal agency in the performance of its
governmental functions, and it would therefore not be
necessary for Congress to grant such an immunity in
order to enable the federal agency to carry on its activities. If there is no such necessity, then clearly the power
to grant immunity from tax could not be derived from
the implied power of Congress "to do whatever is needful or appropriate to carry out the powers delegated to it
by the Federal Constitution."
The idea that the Congress has some power, the limits
of which .are not defined, to grant an immunity from a
tax broader than the implied constitutional immunity, is
without foundation. In other words, if we concede the
power of Congress to grant to a governmental agency
whatever tax immunity is necessary to protect and safeguard that agency in the performance of the governmental functions delegated to it by Congress, we merely
doncede the implied constitutional immunity from sub'stantial interference. If we go beyond this, then we must
say that the Congress has the power to grant not merely
an immunity necessary to protect the agency in the performance of its governmental functions, but an unlimited
immunity. Such a rule would have disastrous consequences.
A statutory declaration of immunity may therefore be
treated as an expression of congressional opinion as to the
necessity for immunity, or as negativing any implication
of a waiver of the immunity by Congress, or both. But
beyond this point we submit that the question of whether
immunity exists in any particular case depends upon
whether it can be implied from the Constitution, and in
every case this is a judicial and not a legislative question.

26

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

308 U. S.

Solicitor General Jackson, with whom Assistant Attorney General Clark and Messrs. Sewall Key, Warner W.
Gardner, Berryman Green, and Harold Lee were on the
brief, for respondent.
Petitioner does not challenge the constitutionality of
the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, as amended. It
follows that the Corporation shares the full immunity
from state taxation which attaches to the operations of
the United States. Its functions are necessarily "governmental," since they are in exercise of the delegated
powers of the Federal Government. Since it is wholly
owned and controlled by the Government, its corporate
organization does not affect the governmental nature of
Graves v. New York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306
its activities.
U. S 466, 477.
Congress has full power to determine whether the
recordation of these mortgages should be exempt from
or subject to state taxation; and the question of tax
immunity or liability is simply one of Congressional
intent. Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S. 405, 411-412.
Such was the decision in Federal Land Bank v. Crosland,
261 U. S.374.
The laws of the United States are declared by the
Constitution to be "the supreme law of the land." If
Congress had expressly declared that the recordation of
these mortgages should be exempt from state taxation
the Maryland tax would fall, since the provision could
not be declared to have no reasonable relationship to
the ends promoted by the Corporation.
The 'doctrine of immunity of federal instrumentalities
from state taxation was developed simply as an attribute
of the supremacy clause of the Constitution. McCulloch
v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 426, 427, 433. Not until
Collector v. Day, 11 Wall. 113, did the Court ascribe immunity to the more nebulous implications of a federated
constitution. But even after that decision, and notably

PITTMAN v. HOME OWNERS' CORP.
21

Argument for Respondent.

of late, the Court has continued to recognize the historic
and specific basis for federal tax immunity. Thus, Congress has an undoubted power to waive the immunity
from state taxation which would otherwise attach. In
other cases, the Court has recognized the power of Congress to create an immunity for private persons who dealt
with the Government and have held the taxpayer liable
because Congress had provided no such immunity; correlatively, the Court has extended immunity to such private persons because Congress had declared that they
should not be subject to state taxation. With these broad
powers as to the tax immunity even of private persons,
simply because they deal with the United States, it follows a fortiori that Congress has full power to provide
either tax immunity or liability for the property and
operations of the Government itself.
The ultimate incidence of a tax can not ordinarily be
determined with categorical exactness. In the case of the
Maryland tax here involved, it is wholly impossible to
determine on a priori grounds whether the economic
burden will ultimately rest upon the Corporation or upon
its borrowers. Even if the tax could be precisely allocated, it is impossible to measure the extent to which it is
an interference with the governmental functions of the
Corporation in providing credit relief for distressed home
owners. The decision of these questions, impossible of
exact answer, is committed to Congress alone.
The Constitution, in giving to Congress this power, has
not placed the States in jeopardy. From the beginning
it has been recognized that Congress, by its very nature,
represented the interests of the States as well as those of
the National Government. McCulloch v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 316, 435-436; Helvering v. Gerhardt, 304 U. S.
405, 412-413, 416. And in practice, Congress has many
times waived an immunity which otherwise would attach
to federal instrumentalities; indeed, in the last three

28

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

308 U. S.

Congresses some thirty-two statutes contain such a
waiver.
The question, therefore, is simply one of Congressional
intention. No private person should be exempt from
non-discriminatory taxation simply because he deals with
the Government; but the Government itself should not
in the absence of a clear consent be forced to account to
the tax collector of a State. It would be anomalous for
the operations of the United States, buttressed by the
supiemacy clause, to be subject to a compulsory exaction
by an independent sovereign. The delay and accounting
burdens, the necessity of opening the Government's books
to numerous tax officials, and the burden of numerous and
protracted suits, would combine to impose a staggering
obstacle to the efficient conduct of the nation's business,
which reaches into every taxing jurisdiction in the United
States.
It is, we believe, because of these considerations that
so marked a contrast appears in the decisions of this
Court which deal, on the one hand, with the tax immunity of private persons and, on the other hand, with
that of the Government itself. Because of the strong
reasons for such an immunity and because of the unbroken consistency of the decisions of this Court, Congress can be taken to have intended a different rule only
when the waiver of immunity is clear. Graves v. New
York ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, dealt with the immunity of a private person from taxation simply because
he chanced to deal with the Government.
Section 4 (c) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933
contains nothing to destroy this normal implication of
immunity; on the contrary its language points with, compelling force to a Congressional desire for immunity.
The fragmentary legislative history points to a similar
conclusion. Cf., Baltimore National Bank v. Tax Commission, 297 U. S. 209.

PITTMAN v. HOME OWNERS' CORP.
21

Opinion of the Court.

The omission of a specific exemption for mortgages,
found in the Federal Farm Loan Act and relied upon in
Federal Land Bank v. Crosland, 261 U. S.374, indicates
no desire to waive their immunity.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Home Owners' Loan Corporation brought this
proceeding in the Baltimore City Court for a writ of
mandamus requiring the Clerk of the Superior Court of
Baltimore to record a mortgage executed to the Corporation upon the payment of the ordinary recording charge
and without affixing stamps for the state recording tax.
Demurrer to the petition was overruled, the Clerk did
not avail himself of the opportunity to answer, and mandamus was granted. The order was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals. 175 Md. 512; 2 A. 2d 689. We granted
certiorari. 306 U. S.628.
The Maryland statute imposes a tax upon every mortgage, recorded or offered for record, at the rate of ten
cents for each $100, or fraction thereof, of the principal
amount of the debt secured by the mortgage.' As the
Home Owners' Loan Corporation is expressly declared
to be an instrumentality of the United States (Home
1The

Act provides for a "Tax on the Recordation of Instruments in

Writing" as follows:
"A tax is hereby imposed upon every instrument of writing recorded
or offered for record with the Clerks of the Circuit Courts of the respective Counties, or the Clerk of the Superior Court of Baltimore
City, on and after June 1, 1937, to and including September 30th,
1939, including mechanics liens, deeds, mortgages (except purchase
money mortgages), chattel mortgages, bills of sale,, conditional contracts of sale, leases, confessed judgments, magistrates' judgments, crop
liens, deeds of trust, and any and all other instruments of writing, so
recorded or offered for record, which create liens or incumbrances on
real or personal property, or convey title to real or personal property;
provided, however, that said tax shall not apply to assignments of

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

Owners' Loan Act of 1933, c. 64, 48 Stat. 128) and the
mortgage was acquired in that capacity, the Court of
Appeals held the tax as thus applied to be invalid.
The court relied upon our decision in Federal Land
Bank v. Crosland, 261 U. S. 374. The question there
related to a tax imposed by Alabama as a condition for
the recording of a mortgage executed to a Federal Land
Bank. The Federal Farm Loan Act of 1916 provides
that first mortgages executed to Federal Land Banks
shall be deemed "instrumentalities of the Government of
the United States, and as such they and the income
derived therefrom shall be exempt from Federal, State,
municipal, and local taxation." 39 Stat. 360, 380. We
held that the state tax, as distinguished from a reasonable fee to meet the expenses of the registry, constituted
a general tax on mortgages, using the condition attached
to registration as a practical mode of collecting it, and
that the tax on the mortgage in question was beyond
the power of the State.
Petitioner suggests that the Crosland case may, be distinguished; that the Alabama tax was imposed on the
lender, whereas the Maryland tax is on the privilege of
recording the instrument and the statute is silent as to
mortgages, purchase money mortgages, absolute or partial releases, or
orders of satisfaction."
"The tax hereby imposed shall be at the rate of 100 for each $100,
or fractional part thereof, of the actual consideration paid or to be
paid, for the property transferred, in the case of instruments conveying title, and at the rate of 100 for each $100, or fractional part thereof,
of the principal amount of the debt secured, in the case of instruments
securing a debt, or reserving title as security for a debt."
"In addition to the tax hereby imposed, the Clerks shall collect a
charge of 500 for each such instrument recorded or offered for record."
Acts of 1937, Chap. 11, Code of Maryland, Art. 81, § 213.
The same Act, in § 214, provides for the affixing of stamps to cover
the tax and makes it unlawful for any person to record any written
instrument without providing for the payment of the tax, as stated.

PITTMAN v. HOME OWNERS' CORP.
21

Opinion of the Court.

the one who shall pay the tax; also that the Federal
Farm Loan Act expressly declared the mortgages of Federal Land Banks to be instrumentalities of the Federal
Government. The Court of Appeals thought these
differences to be immaterial. As to the first, the court
rightly observed that in the Crosland case the provision
for the payment of tax by the lender was regarded as
having no determining significance. We said that "whoever pays it it is a tax upon the mortgage and that is
what is forbidden by the law of the United States."
261 U. S., pp. 378, 379. Here, also, the tax is imposed
upon the mortgage and is graded according to the amount
of the loan,' and the condition attached to the registration is a practical method of collection. The recording
sought was for the protection of the interest of the Home
Owners' Loan Corporation. In fact, the mortgage in the
instant case was -offered for record by the Corporation
and the tax was demanded from the Corporation.
The second suggested distinction rests upon the terms
of the Home Owners' Loan Act. That provides 3 that
the Home Owners' Loan Corporation, its franchise, capital, reserves and surplus, and its loans and income shall
be exempt from all state or municipal taxes. The critical
term, in the present relation, is "loans." We think that
this term, in order to carry out the manifest purpose of
the broad exemption, should be construed as covering the
entire process of lending, the debts which result therefrom and the mortgages given to the Corporation as
security. the Home Owners' Loan Act requires that
the loans made by the Corporation "shall be secured by
'See Note 1.
'Section 4 (c) of the Honme Owners' Loan Act provides: "The bonds
issued by the Corporation under this subsection shall be exempt, both
as to principal and interest, from all taxation (except surtaxes, estate,
inheritance, and gift taxes) now or hereafter imposed by the United
States or any District, Territory, dependency, or possession thereof, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U,S.

Both the mortgage
a duly recorded home mortgage." '
and its recordation were indispensable elements in the
lending operations authgrized by Congress. We agree
with the state court that there is no sound distinction
which makes inapplicable the reasoning which was decisive in the Crosland case.
Alive to this consideration, petitioner advances a
broader contention, asking us to review and overrule the
Crosland decision as being out of harmony with correct
principle. Petitioner insists that the tax is not discriminatory; that it does not impose a burden upon the Home
Owners' Loan Corporation; and that if the Act of Congress be construed as conferring an immunity, it went
beyond the power of Congress, as Congress cannot "grant
an immunity of greater extent than the constitutional
immunity."
We assume here, as we assumed in Graves v. New York
ex rel. O'Keefe, 306 U. S. 466, that the creation of the
Home Owners' Loan Corporation was a constitutional
exercise of the congressional power and that the activities
of the Corporation through which the national government lawfully acts must be regarded as governmental
functions and as entitled to whatever immunity attaches
to those functions when performed by the government itself through its departments. McCulloch v. Maryland,
4 Wheat. 316, 421, 422; Smith v. Kansas City Title Co.,
255 U. S. 180, 208, 209; Graves v. New York ex rel.
O'Keefe, supra. Congress has not only the power to
create a corporation to facilitate the performance of govby any State, county, municipality, or local taxing authority. The
Corporation, including its franchise, its capital, reserves and surplus,
and its loans and income, shall.likewise be exempt from such taxation;
except that any real property of the Corporation shall be subject to
taxation to the same extent, according to its value, as other real property is taxed." 48 Stat. 128, 130; 12 U. S. C. 1463.
.'§ 4 (e) (f); 48 Stat. 131; 12 U. S. C. 1463 (e) (f).

PITTMAN v. HOME OWNERS' CORP.
21

33

Opinion of the Court.

ernmental functions, but has the power to protect the
operations thus validly authorized. "A power to create
implies a power to preserve." McCulloch v. Maryland,
supra, p. 426. This power to preserve necessarily comes
within the range of the express power conferred upon
Congress to make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution all powers vested by
the Constitution in the Government of the United States.
Const. Art. I, § 8, par. 18. In the exercise of this power
to protect the lawful activities of its agencies, Congress
has the dominant authority which necessarily inheres in
its action within the national field. The Shreveport Case,
234 U. S. 342, 351, 352. The exercise of this protective
power in relation to state taxation has many illustrations.
See, e. g., Bank v. Supervisors, 7 Wall. 26, 31; Choate v.
Trapp, 224 U. S. 665,668,669; Smith v. Kansas City Title
Co., supra, p. 207; Trotter v. Tennessee, 290 U. S. 354,
356; Lawrence v. Shaw, 300 U. S. 245, 249. In this instance; -Congress has undertaken to safeguard the operations of the Home Owners' Loan Corporation by providing the described immunity. As we have said, we construe this provision as embracing and prohibiting the tax
in question. 'Since Congress had the constitutional authority to enact this provision, it is binding upon this
Court as the supreme law- of the land. Const. Art. VI.
The judgment of the state court is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTIce BUTLER took no part in the consideration

and decision.of this case.

