PALMER v. MASSACHUSETTS.

79

Argument for Petitioners.

PALMER ET AL., TRUSTEES, v. MASSACHUSETTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 7.

Argued October 11, 1939.-Decided Noyember 6, 1939.

1. Creditors of a railroad, debtor in a reorganization proceeding under
§ 77 of the Bankruptcy Act, petitioned the District Court for an
order directing the reorganization trustees to discontinue certain
local transportation service. The trustees had previously applied
to the state commission for authority to discontinue the same service, which application accorded with requirements of the state law
and was then pending and being given orderly hearing and consideration. Held, the District Court was without power to order
discontinuance of the service. P. 88.
2. In the light of the history of the legislation, such power in the
District Court may not be implied from § 77 (a), granting to the
bankruptcy court "exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its
property wherever located," or § 77 (c) (2), permitting the trustees,
subject to the control of the court, V'to operate the business of the
debtor." P. 85.
101 F. 2d 48, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 306 U. S. 627, to review the reversal of an
order of the District Court authorizing the trustees of a
railroad in reorganization proceedings to discontinue certain local transportation service.
Mr. Edward R. Brumley, with whom Messrs. Fred N.
Oliver, Willard P. Scott, Oscar M. Shaw, and R. Ammi
Cutter were on the brief, for petitioners.
The bankruptcy court may direct its trustees to discontinue intrastate passenger service, irrespective of authorization by the state regulatory body normally having
jurisdiction, in order to preserve and rehabilitate the
property of an interstate railroad, and to make and effect
a plan of reorganization. Continental Bank v. Rock
Island Ry., 294 U. S.648, 676. Bankruptcy Act, § 77 (a)
(c) (1), § 2, § 77 (o) (f).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

308 U. S.

When Congress occupies the field it precludes all inconsistent state regulation, unless specific reservations of
state powers are made. Colorado v. United States, 271
U. S. 153, 162-166; Transit Commission v. United States,
284 U. S. 360; and see New York v. United States, 257
U. S. 360; American Brake Shoe & Foundry Co. v.
I. R. T., 10 F. Supp. 512; affirmed, 76 F. 2d 1002, cert.
denied, New York City v. Murray, 295 U. S. 760.
The power of an equity court to protect property in its
custody, In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164; Wabash Railroad v.
Adelbert College, 208 U. S. 94, was recognized in cases
under the Bankruptcy Act prior to the enactment of § 77.
Murphy v. Hofman Co., 211 U. S. 562; Isaacs v. Hobbs
Tie & T. Co., 282 U. S. 734. Compare Ex parte Baldwin,
291 U. S. 610; Continental Bank v. Rock Island Ry., 294
U. S. 648; Board of Directors St. Francis Levee Dist. v.
Kurn, 91 F. 2d 118; 98 F. 2d 394; Crawford v. Duluth
Street Ry. Co., 60 F. 212; Iowa v. Old Colony Trust Co.,
215 F. 307.
The legislative history of § 77 shows its broad purpose
to facilitate and expedite interstate railroad reorganizations. Congress conferred jurisdiction upon the court,
free'from state laws and state regulations that interfere
with reorganization.
Section 75 of the Judicial Code is inapplicable. In re
Denver & R. G. W. R. Co., 23 F. Supp. 298.
Mr. Edward 0. Proctor,Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Paul A. Dever, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent.
A railroad can not abandon the public service which
was the condition upon which its franchises were granted
and still retain them.
Power to permit or deny abandonment of service on
intrastate lines is reserved to the several States in the
absence of federal legislation displacing that power. This

PALMER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
Opinion of the Court.

79

power is customarily exercised by state regulatory
commissions.
Earlier than § 77, no federal legislation displaced the
states' power to permit or deny partial abandonment of
service on lines retained by the railroads, although the
Interstate Commerce Commission was empowered to
authorize complete abandonment.
Section 77 manifests intent that the Interstate Commerce Commission rather than the bankruptcy court be
the arbiter of conflicting interests of the railroad and the
public, and that partial abandonment shall be authorized
only as a part of the reorganization plan, with the
Commission's approval.
Section 77 does not empower the court to oust state
regulatory bodies from their jurisdiction to determine
what services the railroad may abandon, pending
confirmation of the reorganization plan.
By leave of Court, Mr. Vernon W. Marr filed a brief on
behalf of the Town of Scituate, as amicus curiae, urging
affirmarice.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
October 23, 1935, opened another chapter in the long
history of the vicissitudes of the New York, New Haven
and Hartford Railroad Company. 1 By filing a petition
for reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act (47
Stat. 1474, as amended by 49 Stat. 911 and 49 Stat. 1969,
1 Brandeis,

"Financial Condition of the New York, New Haven and

Hartford Railroad Co." (1907); The New England Investigation, 27
I. C. C. 560 (1913); In re Financial Transactions of the New York,

New Haven and Hartford Railroad Co., 31 I. C. C. 32 (1914); Report
of the Joint New England Railroad Committee to the Governors of
the New England States. (Storrow Report.) (1923.)

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

11 U. S. C. § 205), the New Haven invoked the shelter
of the United States District Court for the District of
Connecticut. There it has since remained. An episode
in this new chapter, already four years old, is presented
by this case. We brought it here, 306 U. S. 627, because
it raises important questions under the railroad bankruptcy law, particularly where it intersects the regulatory
systems of the states. The District Court assumed
power to supplant the relevant authority of the statean authority which, apart from proceedings under § 77,
has not been conferred by Congress either upon the federal courts or the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, one judge dissenting, reversed the District Court, Converse v. Massachusetts,
101 F. 2d 48.
A summary of the facts will lay bare the legal issues.
On December 28, 1937, the bankruptcy Trustees of the
New Haven, acting under the requirements of Massachusetts law, 2 applied to that Commonwealth's Department of Public Utilities for leave to abandon eighty-eight
passenger stations.' Twenty-one hedrings were held by
'Mass. Gen. Laws (Ter. Ed.) c. 160, § 128, provides: "A railroad
corporation which has established and maintained a passenger station
throughout the year for five consecutive years at any point upon its
railroad shall not abandon such station . . . nor substantially diminish
the accommodation furnished by the stopping of trains thereat as compared with that furnished at other stations on the sare railrpad, except with the written approval of the department [of Public Utilities]
after notice posted in and on said station for a period of thirty days
immediately preceding a public hearing thereon."
See also Mass. Gen. Laws (Ter. Ed.) c. 159, § 16, vesting general
control over intrastate railway services in the Department of Public
Utilities.
'The application also sought permission to effect certain other curtailments of passenger service. Some of the stations were situated on
the lines of the New Haven, most of them on the lines of the Old

PALMER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
79

Opinion of the Court.

the Department on the questions raised by this application. During the pendency of these hearings and before
the Department had taken any action, the present litigation was initiated in the New Haven bankruptcy proceedings by creditors of the debtor for an order directing the
Trustees to abandon these local services. The Trustees
joined in the prayer, while the Commonwealth denied
the jurisdiction of the District Court and asked that the
proceedings before the Department be allowed to reach
fruition. The District Judge ruled that § 77 gave him
the responsibility of disposing of the petition on its
merits and, having taken evidence, gave the very relief
for which the Trustees had applied to the Department
and which was still in process of orderly consideration.
Plainly enough the District Court had no power to
deal with a matter in the keeping of state authorities
unless Congress gave it. And so we have one of those
problems in the reading of a statute wherein meaning is
sought to be derived not from specific language but by
fashioning a mosaic of significance out of the innuendoes
of disjointed bits of a statute. At best this is subtle
business, calling for great wariness lest what professes to
be mere rendering becomes creation and attempted interpretation of legislation becomes legislation itself. Especially is wariness enjoined when the problem of conColony Railroad, and some on the lines of the Boston and Providence
Railroad.
The New Haven in 1893 leased for 99 years all the properties of the
Old Colony, including the Boston and Providence lines which the Old
Colony had leased for 99 years it 1888. On June 1,1936, the New
Haven Trustees disaffirmed, as they were empowered to do under § 77,
the Old Colony lease. After the disaffirmance the New Haven operated the lines on account of the Old Colony. On June 3, 1936, the
Old Colony itself commenced proceedings under § 77. The Trustees
of the New Haven were then appointed trustees for the Old Colony.

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

struction implicates one of the recurring phases of our
federalism and involves striking a balance between national and state authority in one of the most sensitive
areas of government.
To be sure, in recent years Congress has from time to
time exercised authority over purely intrastate activities
of an interstate carrier when, in the judgment of Congress, an interstate carrier constituted, as a matter of economic fact, a single organism and could not effectively be
regulated as to some of its interstate phases without
drawing local business within the regulated sphere.4 But
such absorption of state authority is a delicate exercise
of legislative policy in achieving a wise accommodation
between the needs of central control and the lively maintenance of local institutions.5. Therefore, in construing
legislation this court has disfavored inroads by implication on state authority and resolutely confined restrictions upon the traditional power of states to regulate
their local transportation to the plain mandate of Congress. Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352; cf. Kelly
v. Washington ex rel. Foss Co., 302 U. S. 1.
The dependence of local communities on local railroad
services has for decades placed control over their curtailment within the regulatory authorities of the states.0
'E. g., The Shreveport Cases, 234 U. S. 342; Railroad Comn'n of
Wisconsin v. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563. See I Sharfman,
"The Interstate Commerce Commission," pp. 82-86, 219-225.

For the

careful observance of state interests in applying the Shreveport doctrine, see Illinois Central R. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 245 U. S.
493 and Floridav. United States, 282 U. S. 194.
See Clark, "The Rise of a New Federalism," passim.
The.controlling Massachusetts statute has been in force since 1911.
But Massachusetts has exercised control over its railroads through
administrative machinery ever since the famous Adams Commission in
1869. See First Annual Report, Board of Railroad Commissioners of
Massachusetts, Public Document No. 40, pp. 3-12 (1870); Hadley,
"Railroad Transportation" (1885 ed.) pp. 136-139.

PALMER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
79

Opinion of the Court.

Even when the Transportation Act in 1920 gave the Interstate Commerce Commission power to permit abandonment of local lines .when the over-riding interests of
interstate commerce. required it, Colorado v. United
States, 271 U. S. 153,7 this was not deemed to confer upon
the Commission jurisdiction over curtailments of service
and partial discontinuances. Public Convenience Application of Kansas City Southern Ry., 94 I. C. C. 691; see
Proposed Abandonment, Morris & Essex Co., 175 I. C. C.
49. If this old and familiar power of the states was withdrawn when Congress gave district courts bankruptcy
powers over railroads, we ought to find language fitting
for so drastic a change.
We are asked to find it in § 77(a) granting to the
bankruptcy court "exclusive jurisdiction, of the debtor
and its property wherever located,"" and in § 77 (c) (2)
permitting the trustees, subject. to the court's control, "to
operate the business of the debtor." - In order to expedite the reorganization of insolvent railroads, such
broad and general provisions doubtless suffice to confer
'For illustration of the scrupulous regard for local authority and
local interests shown by the Commission in the exercise of its control
over abandonments, see TI Sharfman, "The Interstate Commerce Commission," pp. 264-269.
'Section 77 (a), 47 Stat. 1474, as amended in 1935 by 49 Stat. 911,
11 U. S. C. § 205 (a) provides so far as here relevant: "If the petition
is so approved, the court in 'which such order is entered shall, during
the pendency of the proceedings under this 'section and- for the purposes thereof, have exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property
wherever located, and shall have and may exercise in addition to the
powers conferred by this section all the powers, not inconsistent with
this section, which a Federal court would have had if it had'appointed
a receiver in equity of the property of the debtor for any purpose."
"The trustee-or trustees so appointed . . .shall have . . .subject

to the control of the judge and the jurisdiction of the Commission as
provided

...

the power to operate the business of the debtor."

§ 77

(c) (2), 47 Stat. 1475,. as amended by 49 Stat. 914-15, 11 U. S. C.
§ 205 (c) (2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

upon the district courts power appropriate for adjusting
property rights in the railroad debtor's estate and, as
to such rights, beyond that in ordinary bankruptcy proceedings. Cf. Continental Bank v. Chicago, R. I. & P.
Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648. But the District Court claimed
power over the carrier's relation to the state. It has
become the settled social policy both of the states and
the nation to entrust the type of public interest here in
question to expert administrative agencies because of "the
notion," as Judge Learned Hand pointed out below, "that
a judge is not qualified for such duties." 10
Not only is there no specific grant of the power which
the District Court exercised, but the historic background
of § 77, the considerations governing Congress in its
enactment, and the scheme of the legislation as disclosed
by its specific provisions reject the claim. Until the
amendment of March 3, 1933, railroads were outside the
Bankruptcy Act. 1 But the long history of federal railroad receiverships, with the conflicts they frequently engendered between the federal courts and the public, left
an enduring conviction that a railroad was not like an
ordinary insolvent estate. 2 Also an insolvent railroad,
it was realized, required the oversight of agencies specially
charged with the public interest represented by the
transportation system. Indeed, when, in the depth of
"See Converse v. Massachusetts, 101 F. 2d 48, at 51.
" See H. Rep. No. 1897, 72d Congress, 2d Session, p. 5.
See Chapter XXII "Railroad Receiverships" in I Gresham, "The
Life of Walter Quintin Gresham," pp. 366-378; Jacobs "The Interstate Commerce Commission apd Interstate Railroad Reorganizations,"
45 Harv. L. Rev. 855; Lowenthal "The Investor Pays." See also remarks by Senator Wheeler, as Chairman of the Committee on Interstate Commerce, introducing the amendment of 1935, 79 Cong. Rec.,
Pt. 13, p. 13764.

PALMER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
79

Opinion of the Court.

the depression, legislation was deemed urgent to meet
the grave crisis confronting the railroads, there was a
strong sentiment in Congress to withdraw from the courts
control over insolvent railroads and lodge it with the
Interstate Commerce Commission.."
Congress stopped
short of this remedy. But the whole scheme of § 77
leaves no doubt that Congress did not mean to grant
to the district courts the same scope as to bankrupt roads
that they may have in dealing with other bankrupt
estates.
The judicial process in bankruptcy proceedings under
§ 77 is, as it were, brigaded with the administrative process of the Commission. From the requirement of ratification by the Commission of the trustees appointed by
the court to the Commission's approval of the court's plan
of reorganization the authority of the court is intertwined
with that of the Commission.'
Thus, in § 77 (c) and
"See 76 Cong. Rec., Pt. 5, p. 5358 (remarks of Representative LaGuardia): "I would like to see the entire reorganization taken from the
courts and placed in the Interstate Commerce Commission." The suggestion for administrative receiverships originated with the late Chief
Justice Taft, when Circuit Judge, in an address before the American
Bar Association. Taft, "Recent Criticism of the Federal Judiciary,"
Reports of the American Bar Association (1895) 237, 264.
1 Section 77 (c) (1) requires the appointment of trustees to be rati-.
fled by the Commission; § 77 (c) (2) gives the Commission supervision
over the compensation paid to trustees and their counsel; § 77 (c) (3)
permits the issuance of trustees' certificates only with the Commission's approval; § 77 (c) (9) permits the Commission, on request of the
court, to investigate facts pertaining to mismanagement of the debtor;
§ 77 (c) (10).empowers the Commission to set up accounts for the
allocation of earnings among the various portions of the debtor's lines;
§ 77 (c) (11) empowers the Commission to file reports as to the
debtor's property, prospective earnings, etc., and gives to the facts
stated in such reports a presumption of correctness; § 77 (c) (12)
gives the Commission supervision over allowances for the expenses of

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

§ 77 (o) the power of the district courts to permit abandonments is specifically conditioned on authorization of
such abandonments by the Commission. In view of the
judicial history of railroad receiverships and the extent
to which § 77 made judicial action dependent on approval
by the Interstate Commerce Commission, it would violate
the traditional respect of Congress for local interests and
for the administrative process to imply power in a single
judge to disregard state law over local activities of a
carrier the governance of which Congress has withhld
even from the Interstate. Commerce Commission, except
as part of a complete plan of reorganization for an insolvent road.1" About a fourth of the railroad mileage of
various parties in interest in connection with the reorganization proceedings; §§ 77 (d) and 77 (e) give to the Commission control over
any proposed plan of reorganization; § 77 (p) gives to the Commissian
control over the solicitation of proxies or deposit agreements.
See also H. Rep. No. 1897, 72d Congress, 2d Session, pp 5-6;
H. Rep. No. 1283, 74th Congress, 1st Session, pp. 3-5; S. Rep. No.
1336, 74th Cong., 1st Session, pp. 4-6; Report, Federal Coordinator of
Transportation, 1934, H. Doc. No. 89, 74th Cong., lt Session, pp. 100101; 76 Cong. Rec., Pt. 5, pp. 5108-5110; 79 Cong. Rec., Pt. 12,
p. 13301, Pt. 13, pp. 13764, 13767.
"Upon confirmation of the plan, the debtor and aiiy other corporation or corporations organized or to be organized fof the purpose of
carrying out the plan, shall have full power and authority to, and shall
put into effect and carry out the plan and the orders of the judge relative thereto . . . the laws of any State or the decision or order of any

State authority to the contrary notwithstanding." § 77 (f).
The records of the Interstate Commerce Commission disclose that
eight plans of reorganization have thus far been filed with the District
Court in the New Haven proceedings and transmitted to the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Proceedings before the Commission had progressed to the point where an examiner's report was filed; but the
report was withdrawn for further hearings. The present record fails
to show what, if any, disposition of the Old Colony lines any of these
plans proposed to make.

PALMER v. MASSACHUSETTS.
79

Opinion of the Court.

the country is now in bankruptcy.'
The petitioners ask
us to say that district judges in twenty-nine states have
effective power, in view of the weight which often
attaches to findings at nisi prius, to set aside the regulatory systems of these twenty-nine states with all the consequences implied for those communities. Congress gave
no such power.
Arguments of convenience against denial of the existence of this power have been strongly pressed upon us.
Continuance of state control over these local passenger
services will, it is urged, impair the bankruptcy court's

power to formulate a reorganization plan for the approval
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Such embarrassments, due either to the time required for exhaustion of the orderly state procedure or to the financial
losses that may be involved in the continuance of local
services until duly terminated by the state, may easily
be exaggerated. It is not without significance that after
four years no reorganization plan for the New Haven
has yet been evolved. Perhaps it is no less true that
amenability to state laws will serve as incentive to the
formulation of reorganization plans which, on approval
by the Commission, do supplant state authority. But,
in any event, against possible inconveniences due to observance of state law we must balance the feelings of
local communities, the dislocation of their habits and
the over-riding of expert state agencies by a single judge
sitting, as in this case, in another state, removed from
familiarity with local problems, and not necessarily gifted
with statesman-like imagination that transcends the wisdom of local attachments.
* 1 On October 23, 1939, there were 61,292.69 miles of railroad in
bankruptcy proceedings under § 77. This mileage includes lines in 29
states.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

Other arguments, drawn from the legislative history
of § 77 and from the general equity powers conferred by
§ 77(a) and § (77)(c)(2)," were urged but we deem it
unnecessary to say more.
The decree below is
Affirmed.
MR.JUSTICE BUTLER

took no part in the consideration

and decision of this cause.
HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. WILSHIRE OIL CO., INC.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 1. Argued October 9, 1939.-Decided November 6, 1939.
1. An oil company which pursuant to a Treasury Regulation elected
irrevocably to deduct development expenses from gross income in
computing its taxable net income rather than charge them to
capital account, and which made this election at a time when
Treasury practice under the Revenue Acts of 1921, § 234 (a) (9),
and 1924, § 204 (c), required that "operative expenses" but not
expenses of development be deducted from gross in.ome in computing "the net income from the property" which limits the depletion
allowance, has no ground to attack as retroactive a later regulation made under the Revenue Act of 1928, § 114 (b)\(3), and
looking to the future, which requires that development, as well as
operative, expenses be deducted in the computation. P. 97.
"In re Tyler, 149 U. S. 164, lnd other decisions of this Court cited
by petitioners deal with attempts at "physical invasion" of the prop,
erties held in the custody of a federal court. See 149 U. S. at 182.
Section 65 of the Judicial Code (36 Stat. 1104, 28 U. S. C. § 124)
decisively indicates that Congress did not intend that those who operate a business under the control of a federal court should be immune
from the regulatory authority of the several states any more than they
are from their taxing power.
* See No. 2, Helvering v. Bandini Petroleum Co. and No. 3, Helvering v. Wilshire Annex Oil Co., post, p. 512.

