422

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

he himself has not sought review of the whole judgment,
or of that portion which is adverse t'o him.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
affirmed and the cause is remanded to the District Court
with directions to proceed in accordance with the opinion
and mandate of the Circuit Court of Appeals.

Affirmed.

GENERAL AMERICAN TANK CAR CORP. v. EL
DORADO TERMINAL CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 129.

Argued December 12, 13, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

A car company leased, on a monthly rental basis, tank cars to a
shipper for the transportation of the latter's products in interstate commerce, the contract providing that tariff car-mileage
allowances from railroads for the use of the cars should be collecied by the car company and be credited monthly to the rental
-account of the shipper. The tariffs contained no provision for
* payment of such allowances directly to the shipper; and, under
the carriers' rules, they were paid in this case to the car company.
The car company subsequently refused to pay to the shipper any
excess of car-mileage allowances over the stipulated rents, on the
ground that it would thus be participating in illegal rebating.
The shipper thereupon brought suit in assumpsit upon the lease
to recover the amount of such excess. Held:
1. The suit was within the jurisdiction of the District Court,
since the action was an ordinary one in assumpsit on a written
contract and the court had jurisdiction of the parties. P. 432.
"The Stephen Morgan, 94 U. S. 599; Mount Pleasant v. Beccwith, 100 U. S. 514, 527; United States v. Blackfeather, 155 U. S.
180, 186; Landram v. Jordan, 26 U. S. 56, 62; Bothwell v. United
States, 254 U. S. 231, 233; United States v. American Railway Express Co., 265 U. S. 425, 435; Morley Construction Co. v. Maryland
Casualty Cd., 300 U. S. 185, 191.

TANK CAR CORP. v. TERMINALqO.
422

423

Opinion of the Court.

2. Upon disclosure of the terms and operation of the lease contract, the court should not have proceeded to adjudicate the. rights
and liabilities of the parties in the absence of a decision by the
Interstate Commerce Com-iiission with respect to the validity
under the Interstate Commerce Act of the practice involved.
P. 428.
The shipper furnished the cars and was entitled, under § 15 (13)
of the Interstate Commerce Act, to a reasonable allowance therefor. No rule or regulation of the carrier may provide for the
payment of such allowance to any other person. That the car
company acted merely as collecting agent for the shipper does n6t
take the case out of the jurisdiction of the Commission. The
inquiry into the lawfulness of the practice under the lease is
peculiarly within the competence of the Commission.
3. The cause should not be dismissed but 6hould be held pending
the conclusion of an appropriate administrative proceeding, thus
saving to the defendant any defenses which it may have. P. 433.
104 F. 2d 903, 916, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 533, to review the reversal of a judgment for the petitioner in a suit brought by the respondent upon a contract of lease.
Mr. Allan P. Matthew, with whom Mr. John 0. Mora?&
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. F. W ifianon for respondent.
'By leave of Court, Solicitor General. Jackson and
Messrs. J. Stanley Payne and Daniel W. Knowlton filed
a brief on behalf of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.

This was an action in assumpsit brought by the
respondent to recover a sum alleged to be due it by the
petitioner under the terms of a car leasing agreement.
The answer admitted the execution of the agreement

424

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

'but pleaded that payment of the sum demanded would
amount to the making of a rebate, contrary to the provisions of the E',kins Act.1 The District Court rendered
judgment for the petitioner which the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed, holding the respondent entitled to the
full amount claimed.2 We granted certiorari on account
of the importance of the question involved and of the
1 Act of February 19, 1903, c. 708, § 1, 32 Stat. 847,
as amended.
"(3). Receiving rebates; additionalpenalty and recovery thereof.Any person, corporation, or company who shall deliver property for
interstate transportation to any common carrier, subject to the provisions of sections 41, 42, or 43 of this title, or for whom as consignor
or consignee, any such carrier shall transport property from one

Stite, Territory, or the District of Columbia to any other State,
Territory, or the District of Columbia, or foreign country, who shall
knowingly by employee, agent, officer, or otherwise, directly or indiredtly, by or through any means or device whatsoever, receive or
accept from such common carrier any sum of money or any other
valuable consideration as a rebate or offset against the regular charges
for transportation of such property, as fixed by the schedules of rates
provided for in said sections, shall in addition to any penalty provided by said sections forfeit to the United States a sum of money
three times the amount of money so received or accepted and three
times the value ot any other consideration so received or accepted,
to be ascertained by the trial court; and the Attorney General of
the United States is authorized and directed, whenever he has reasonable grouinds to believe that any such person, corporation, or company has knowingly received or accepted from any such common
carrier any sum of money or other valuable consideration as a rebate
or offset as aforesaid, to institute in any court of the United States
of competent jurisdiction, a civil action to collect the said sum or
sums so forfeited as aforesaid; and in the trial of said action all such
rebates or other considerations so received or accepted for a period
of six years prior to the commencement of the action, may be ineluded therein, and the amount recovered shall be three times the
total amount of money, or three times the total value of such consideration, so received or accepted, or both, as the case may be."
U. S. C., Tit. 49, § 41 (3).
'104 F. 2d 903, 916.

TANK CAR CORP. v. TERMINAL CO.
422

425

Opinion of the Court.

allegation that the judgment was not in accord with prior
decisions of this court.
The petitioner is a corporation, unaffiliated with any
railroad, which owns and leases tank cars to railroads and
to shippers for use in transportation in interstate commerce. The respondent is a wholly owned subsidiary of
El Dorado Oil Works, a manufacturer of coconut oil
operating a plant at Berkeley, California, and brought the
action as assignee of the latter's rights under the lease.
September 28, 1933, the petitioner and the Oil Works
entered into an agreement whereby the former leased to
the latter fifty tank cars designated in the contract as
''permanent cars," at a rental of $27.50 per car per month.
The petitioner agreed to supply the Oil Works with such
additional cars as it might need for the shipment of its
products, on a rental basis of $30.00 per car per month,
these to be ordered from time to time as needed and
returned when no longer required.
The contract provided that the petitioner would collect,
and credit to the rental account of the Oil Works each
month, all mileage earned by the cars while in the Oil
Works' service, "according to and subject to all rules of
the tariffs of the railroads." The petitioner was to pay
the cost of repairs and maintenance but the Oil Works
was to be responsible for damage or destruction of the cars
while on privately owned tracks.
The leased cars were used by the Oil Works for shipment
of its products. Such use. was important to the Oil Works
since the railroads serving its plant were not prepared to
furnish shippers a full supply of the kind of cars needed
for carrying the oils in question. The railroad tariffs,
though stating rates on the Oil Works' products when
-shipped in tank cars, disclaimed any obligation to furnish
cars of the requisite type.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

The carriers maintain tariffs applicable to the allowances to be made to car owners for the use of tank cars,
which provide for payment of one and one-half cents per
car mile loaded and empty. The tariffs also embody
rules which, during part of the period in controversy,
stated that mileage payments would be made only to the
party whose reporting marks appeared upon the cars and
during part of the period that "mileage for the use of
cars of private ownership will be paid for loaded and
empty movements only to the car owner-not to a lessee."
The rules precluded payment of the mileage allowance to
the Oil Works under the circumstances of this case, since
the lease stipulated that all the leased cars should bear the
reporting marks of the petitioner.
The petitioner complied with the provisions of the
agreement until July 2, 1934, when the Interstate Commerce Commission rendered its decision in Use of
Privately Owned Refrigerator Cars, 201 I. C. C. 323, in
which it considered the payment of mileage allowances
to shippers either directly or' through car owners, which
payments exceeded the total of the agreed rental for the
use of the cars and any additional actual expenses of the
shipper in connection with the cars. In that case the
Commission held that such payments operated to give the
lessee transportation of his products at lower rates than
those paid by other shippers who use cars furnished by
the carriers and thus amounted to a rebate from the published transportation rates. The petitioner's practice had
been to collect the mileage, deduct the rental due, and
pay over the balance monthly. After the rendition of
the Commission's decision the petitioner collected the
.4ileage from the railroads, credited the Oil Works with
the rental due, retained the balance, and refused to pay
it over. The ground of its refusal was that to follow the
former practice would render it a participant in illegal.
rebating.

TANK CAR CORP. v. TERMINAL CO.
422

427

Opinion of ,the Court.

It Was disclosed at trial that throughout the period
covered by the respondent's claim the mileage allowances
had, in every month, exceeded the rentals, leaving a substantial balance which the respondent insisted should be
paid to it. During the seven month period from November 1, 1934, to May 31, 1935, th's balance amounted to
$17,614.13.
The District Court concluded that payment to the
shipper of any excess of the mileage allowances over
stipulated rents would constitute a rebate prohibited by
the Elkins Act and, in that view, held that the respondent could not recover. The Circuit Court of Appeals
permitted a recovery on the ground that § 15 (13)8 of
the Interstate Commerce Act authorized the payment of
mileage allowances by railroads for the use of private
cars furnished by shippers for the transportation of their
own commodities; that the practice had been approved
by the Commission, and maximum rates fixed by it; that
the one and one-half cents per car mile allowance
appeared in the carriers' published tariffs dealing with
the subject and was, and would remain until action by
the Commission, the legal rate payable for the use of
such cars; that, while it is open to the Commission to
inquire, on its own motion or on complaint, as to any
abuses in connection with such tariff mileage allowances,
until the Commission does act, the carriers are justified
in continuing to pay the scheduled rates; that the shipper
in this case is the furnisher or supplier of privately owned
cars to the carriers, and the lease agreement constitutes
the petitioner a mere agent for the collection and payment of the mileage allowances to the shipper; and, that,
consequently, the payment, by the petitioner to the
shipper, of any excess of the mileage earnings is not.a
rebate within the terms of the Elkins Act.
2 U. S. C. Tit. 49, § 15 (13).

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

The petitioner insists that this conclusion is wrong and
that of the District Court correct. The Interstate Commerce Commission, as a friend of the court, has filed a
brief in which it contends, first, that the District Court
was without jurisdiction to entertain the cause, as the
question inyolved is one primarily for, administrative
action by the' Commission and, secondly, that the payment of the excess credits by the petitioner would result
in payment of a prohibited rebate to the shipper.
We hold that the District Court had jurisdiction but
that, upon disclosure of the terms and operation of the
lease contract, it should not. have proceeded to adjudicate
the rights and liabilities of the parties-in the absence of
a decision by the Commission with respect .to the validity of the practice involved in the light of the provisions
of the Interstate Commerce Act.
Freight cars are facilities of transportation, as defined
by the Act.' The railroads are under obligation, as part
of their public service, to furnish these facilities upon
reasonable request of a shipper,5 and therefore have the
exclusive right to furnish them. They are not, however,
under an obligation to own such. cars. They may, if
they deem it advisable, lease them so as to be in a position to furnish them according to the demand of the
shipping public and, if tl~e carriers do so lease cars, the
termq on which they obtain them are not the subject of
direct control by the Interstate Commerce Commission.'
If the carriers pay too much for, the hire of such cars
the Commission m4ay, of course," refuse to allow them to
reflec such excess cost in their tariffs. The lessor of such
cars to a railroad, however, is not itself a carrier or en449

549

U. S..C. § 1 (3).
U. S. C. § 1 (10)

(11); PeisylvaniaR. Co. v. Puritan Coal'

Co., 237 U. S. 121; Pennsylvania R.- Co. i. Sonman Shaft Coal Co.,
242 U. S. 120.
°Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237 U. S. 434.

TANK CAR CORP. v. TERMINAL CO.
422

429

Opinion of the Court.

gaged in any public service. Therefore its practices lie
without the realm of the Commission's competence.
Cars thus leased and used by the carriers are to be
distinguished from so-called private cars with which we
*are here concerned. Shippers, particularly those who require a specialized form of freight car for transportation
of their produicts, may, and do, own cars adapted for the
purpose. They may, and do, in lieu of owning such
facilities, rent them from the owners. Car companies
owning a large number of a special type of freight car,
some affiliates or subsidiaries of railroads and others, like
the petitioner, wholly independent and financed by private capital, have, for many years, been in the business
of leasing cars to' shippers. The practice has been well
known and -well understood. It is entirely lawful and the
Comfnission has so held But the practice cannot modify
the requirements of paragraph (13) of 9 15,8 which governs the payment of allowances for private cars, and
invests the Commission with authority to find and declare'
what allowances are reasonable.
As the Circuit Court of Appeals has pointed out, different shippers may have differing costs in respect of
privately owned cars furnished the carriers. Nevertheless, as the allowances to be made them by the carriers.
In the Matter of Private Cars, 50 I. C. C. 652.
'Allowance 'for service or facilities furnished by shipper-If the
owner of property transported under this chapter directly or indirectly renders any service connected with such transportation, or furnishes any. instrumentality used therein, the charge and -allowance
therefor.shall be no rmore than is just and reasonable, and the commission'may, after hearing on a complaint or on its own initiative, deteimin whht is-a reasonable charge as the maximum to be paid by the
carrier or carriers for the services so rendered.or for the use of the
instrumentality so furnished, and fix the same by appropriate order,
which order shall have. the same force and effect and be enforced in
like manner as the orders 'above provided for under this section. 40

U. S. C. § 15 (13).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

for the use of such cars must be the subject of published
schedules,' and must be just and reasonable," the Commission is compelled to ascertain in the light of past .and
present experience a fair and reasonable compensation to
cover such costs and prescribe a uniform rate which -will
reflect such experience. It is inevitable that some shippers may be able to furnish facilities at less than the
published allowance while others may find their costs in
excess of it. This fact, however, does not militate against
the fixing of a uniform rate applicable to shippers properly classified by the Commission."
From what has been said it results that the shipper in
this case was permitted by law to furnish freight cars for
the transportation of its products and to be paid a reasonable allowance for performing this portion of the
public service which the carrier was bound to render, and
that the law requires that the amount and conditions
of payment of such allowance shall be set forth in a published tariff. If this is not done, the shipper may coinplain to the Commission, to the end that a proper allowance be ascertained and made effective by a schedule duly
published. In the present case this has not been done.
Nor has the shipper ever applied to the Commission for
its decision as to what was a proper allowance for the
cars furnished by it.
As we have stated, the mileage tariffs published by the
American Railway Association, which govern the instant
case, require that private cars be marked with so-callcd
reporting marks or initials together with a ear number.
These marks are for the purpose of keeping records of the
car's movements and mileage. Appropriate marks to
designate privately owned cars are assigned by the Rail'49 U,s1. C. § 6 (1) (7).
U. S. C.'§ 15 (13), supra, note 9.
Compare Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S.
42,40.
149

TANK CAR CORP. v. TERMINAL CO.
422

431

Opinion of the Court.

way Association to their owners. The rules appearing in
the tariff during a portion of the period in question provided that the mileage for the use of cars of private ownership would be paid to the car owner or to the party
who had acquired the car or cars as shown by the permanent reporting marks. The lease agreement provided
that the cars should bear the reporting marks of the
petitioner. Thus the carrier was bound by its rules to
pay the allowance to the petitioner. During a portion
of the term in controversy the rules provided that mileage
could be paid only to the car owner, not to a lessee. Here
again the rules precluded the payment of the allowance
by the carrier to the shipper.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has held, and we think
correctly, that the shipper-the Oil Works-furnished the
cars to the carrier in the present instance. The petitioner
did not. The shipper was then entitled, under the'plain
terms of § 15 (13), to be paid by the carrier a just and
reasonable allowance for providing the facility. It seems
clear that no. rule or regulation of the carrier may provide
for the payment of such allowance to any other person.
And we think the consideration that, in this case, the petitioner acted merely as collecting agent for the shipper,
does not take the case out of the Commission's jurisdiction. If it should appear that, with respect to the tank
cars in question, the shipper-lessee is making substantial
profits on leased cars, by reason of the excess of the mileage allowances over the rentals paid, it might in the light
of all the facts be found that the shipper is, in the result,
obtaining transportation at a lower cost than others who
use cars assigned them by the carriers or own their own
cars. The Commission has found that, in the case of
refrigerator cars, held under similar leases, this has been
the case."2 The inquiry into the lawfulness of the prac-

.OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of.the Court.

308 U. S.

tice is one peculiarly within the competence of the
Commission. 3
As the tariffs now contain no provision for the payment
of car mileage allowances by the railroad to the shipper
directly, and as, upon the face of things as disclosed by
this record, the shipper is apparently reaping a substantial
profit from the use of the cars, a clear case is made for the
exercise of. the administrative judgment of the Commission. The Circuit Court of Appeals, without supporting
evidence in the record as to any specific items, said that
there are obviously other expenses which the shipper must
bear over and above the actual rental paid. If this were
so, the reflection of those expenses, as well as the rental
itself, in the allowance paid by the carrier to the shipper
for the tise of the latter's cars, would be a matter for the
administrative judgment of the Commission and not for
determination by a court."
We have said that the Commission insists the District
Court was without jurisdiction of the cause. With this
we do not agree. The action was an ordinary one in
assumpsit on a written contract. The court had jurisdiction of the subject matter and of the parties. But it
appeared here, as it did in Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S. 247, that the question of the
reasonableness and legality of the practices of the parties
was subjected by the Interstate Commerce Act to the
administrative euthority of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. The policy of the Act is that reasonable
allowances and practices, which shall not offend against
the prohibitions of the Elkins Act, are to be fixed and
settled after full investigation by the Commission, and
that there is remitted to the courts only the function of
'

Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Merchants Elevator Co., 259 U. S. 285,

290,
1 291.

Mitchell Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 230 U. S. 247; Morris-

dale Coal Co. v. Pennsyivania R. Co., 230 U. S. 304.

KALB v. FEUERSTEIN.
422

Syllabus.

enforcing claims arising out of the failure to comply with
the Commission's lawful orders.
When it appeared in the course of the litigation that
an administrative problem, committed to the Commission, was involved, the court should have stayed its hand
pending the Commission's determination of the lawfulness and reasonableness of the practices under the terms
of the Act. There should not be a dismissal, but, as in
Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., supra, the
cause should be held pending the conclusion of an appropriate administrative proceeding. Thus any defenses
the petitioner may have will be saved to it.'
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and the cause is remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
KALB

ET UX. v.

FEUERSTEIN

ET UX.*

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 120.

Argued December 15, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. The effect of the filing of a petition for a composition or extension
of time under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act upon a state court's
jurisdiction of a pending proceeding to foreclose a mortgage on the
petitioner's property, is a federal question. P. 438.
2. The filing of a petition by a farmer under § 75 of the Bankruptcy
Act for a composition or extension of time .to pay his debts,. operates
ipso facto as a stay on the power of a state court, in a pending
proceeding to foreclose a mortgage on his property, to proceed with
Compare Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S.
304, 314, where no rights could be saved by retaining the cause; and
St. Louis, B. & M. Ry. Co. v. Brownsville District, 304 U. S. 295, 301,
where the District Court was asked to make an order which the
Commissioni alone had authority to make.
* Together with No. 121, Kalb v. Luce et al., also on appeal from
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.

