CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI
No.

-,

Original.

ET AL.

Argued Octolber 9, 1939.-Decided
November 6, 1939.

1. To constitute a controversy between two States, within the original jurisdiction of this Court, it must appear that the complaining State has suffered a wrong through the action of the other
State, furnishing ground for judicial redress, or is asserting a
right against the other State which is susceptible of judicial enforcement according to the accepted principles of the common
law or equity systems of jurisprudence. P. 15.
2. A bill by one State against another State and citizens of the
other, which alleges that the plaintiff has assessed a tax on the
transfer by death of the estate of one of its own citizens, the
satisfaction of which depends upon resort to intangible assets of
the decedent consisting of securities held by the individual defendants, as trustees, in the defendant State, and which alleges
that the defendant State claims and will exercise a right to levy a
like tax upon the transfer of this intangible property, and which
prays to have the respective rights of the two States adjudicated,
and for general relief, but which shows that the property is sufficient to answer the claims of both States and that the claims are
not mutually exclusive but independent so that each State may
constitutionally press its claim without conflict in point of law
or fact with the decision of the other,-does not present a justiciable controversy between the two States. Texas v. Florida, 306
U. S. 398, distinguished. Id.
3. State statutes purporting to exempt from local transfer tax intangible assets of decedents who, at death, were citizens of other
States which grant reciprocal exemptions, create no enforceable
obligation between the States enacting them. P. 16.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Complainant.

308 U. S.

4. A State may not invoke the original jurisdiction of this Court to
enforce the individual rights of its citizens. P. 17.
5. Federal jurisdiction to render a declaratory judgment depends on
the existence of a controversy in the constitutional sense. Id.
6. A State can not be brought into court by making its citizens
parties to a suit not otherwise maintainable against the State.
Id.
7. An action by a State to recover money from citizens of another
State will not be entertained by the Court in the absence of facts
showing that resort to the original jurisdition is necessary for the
protection of the plaintiff State. P. 18.
In the present instance, it does not appear that Massachusetts
is without a proper and adequate remedy in the Missouri courts
or the federal District Court in Missouri. P. 19.
8. Clause 2 of § 2 of Article III of the Constitution merely distributes the jurisdiction conferred by clause 1. Id.
9. The orginal jurisdiction of this Court, in cases where a State is
a party, refers to those cases in which, according to the grant
of power made in Art. III, § 2, cl. 1, jurisdiction might be exercised in consequence of the character of the party, and an original
suit might be instituted in any of the federal courts. Cohens v.
Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264. Id.
10. The objection that the courts in one State will not entertain a
suit to recover taxes due to another or upon a judgment for such
taxes, goes not to the jurisdiction but to the merits, and raises a
question which the district courts are competent to decide. P. 20.
Motion for leave, denied.
ON MOTION for leave to file an original bill in this
Court and the return to an order to show cause.
Mr. Edward 0. Proctor, Assistant Attorney General of
Massachusetts, with whom Mr. Paul A. Dever, Attorney

General, was on the brief, for complainant.

Under Graves v. Elliott, 307 U.- S. 383, decedent's right
to revoke had the attribute of property, and control of

her person and estate at the place of her domicil afforded

constitutional basis for imposition of the tax.
Under that case and Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357,
Missouri also can tax the transfer, though whether its

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI.
I

Argument for Complainant.

statutes exercise that power with respect to the present
-trusts, in view of the reciprocity provision of the statute,
is another question. As the Massachusetts tax is imposed upon the trustees, who are residents of Missouri,
Massachusetts can enforce the tax only by recourse to the
Missouri or federal courts. The trustees deny their liability to pay, on the ground that Massachusetts has no
jurisdiction to impose it. There exists, therefore, a controversy between that State and citizens of Missouri.
The purpose of vestino in the courts of the United
States jurisdiction of suits by one State against the citizens of another "was to enable such controversies to be
determined by a national tribunal, and thereby to avoid
the partiality, or suspicion of partiality, which might
exist if the plaintiff State were compelled to resort to the
courts of the State of which the defendants were citizens." Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 480,
481; Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 289;
Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, 475; Story on the
Constitution, §§ 1638, 1682. And if the facts present
such a case, the Court may not deny jurisdiction because
numerous similar cases might "be brought within its
cognizance." Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373.
A suit against an individual to collect a tax clearly
presents a justiciable controversy determinable "according to accepted doctrines of the common law or equity
United States v. Chamsystems of jurisprudence."
berlin, 219 U. S. 250; Milwaukee County v. M. E. White
Co., 296 U. S. 268, 271; Meredith v. United States, 13 Pet.
486; Dollar Savings Bank v. United States, 19 Wall. 227;
United States v. Philadelphia & Reading R. Co., 123
U. S. 113.
A judgment for a tax is one which is entitled to full
faith and credit under the Constitution. Milwaukee
County v. M. E. White Co., 296 U. S. 268.

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Complainant.

308 U. S.

The Massachusetts inheritance tax is a statutory liability quasi contractual in nature, subject to enforcement
by suit. The rule, adopted in some jurisdictions but
denied in others, that the courts of one State will not
enforce the revenue laws of another State, has been severely criticized (29 Col. L. R. 782; 48 Harv. L. R. 828)
and its validity is an open question in this Court. Milwaukee County v. M. E. White Co., 296 U. S. 268, 275;
Moore v. Mitchell, 281 U. S. 18, 24.
The rule of Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S.
265, should not be extended to a suit for enforcement of
revenue laws. Milwaukee County v. M. E. White Co.,
supra.
There is presented a controversy between Massachusetts and Missouri. In view of recent decisions (Curry
v. McCanless, supra; Graves v. Elliott, supra; Worcester
County Co. v. Riley, 302 U. S. 292, 299; New Jersey v.
Pennsylvania, 287 U. S. 580) the States, having surrendered their rights to make treaties inter sese, must find
their only remedy against double taxation in reciprocal
legislation. First National Bank of Boston v. Maine,
284 U. S. 312, 334; Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730, 732.
Both Massachusetts and Missouri have resorted to this
expedient. Massachusetts and its residents, therefore,
are entitled to the immunity offered by the-Missouri
statute.
If the evils of multiple taxation are to be solved by
reciprocal legislation of the States, as this Court has itself
suggested, it is essential that there be a forum where
recalcitrant States may be compelled to observe the
reciprocity their legislatures have provided. The Supreme Court is the only available forum.
If the Court has jurisdiction upon either ground but
not the other, the jurisdiction is not lost because of the
joinder.of parties not necessary to such jurisdiction.

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI.
Argument for Respondents.

Mr. Harry W. Kroeger, with whom Mr. Daniel N.
Kirby was on the brief, for St. Louis Union Trust Co.,
Trustee, et al., respondents.
The controversies in this case are justiciable because
they are of a civil nature and arise between States of the
Union and between a State and citizens of another State.
They exist notwithstanding the absence of constitutional
restraints on double taxation. Distinguishing Curry v.
McCanless, 307 U. S. 357; Graves v. Elliott, 307 U. S.
383. Because of the facts in this case, and the reciprocal
exemption contained in the law of Missouri, there can
here be only one tax, if in truth there can be any tax at
all. In such a situation a controversy arises appropriately to be decided by a court upon an analogy to interpleader under the principle recently decided by this Court
in Texas v. Florida, 306 U. S. 398.
Controversies between the States of Massachusetts and
Missouri arise because each denies the right of the other
to tax. A controversy arises from the assertion by Massachusetts of the validity of its tax laws in Missouri.
Throughout the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries
English courts have announced the doctrine in dicta that
no nation will take notice of the revenue laws of another. In America the doctrine has been followed, and
applied in Ludlow v. Van Rensselaer, 1 Johnson 94;
Maryland v. Turner, 132 N. Y. S. 173; Colorado v. Harbeck, 232 N. Y. 71; New York Trust Co. v. Island Oil &
Transport Corp., 11 F. 2d 698; Moore v. Mitchell, 30 F.
2d 600; 281 U. S. 18.
This Court-has found it unnecessary to decide whether
a St te might have extraterritorial enforcement of its
revenue laws in an original action outside the taxing
State, as distinguished from a suit on a judgment obtained in the taxing State on personal service. Moore
v. Mitchell, supra; Milwaukee County v. M. E. White

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondents.

308 U. S.

Co., 296 U. S. 268. The issues, as suggested by Colorado v. Harbeck, 232 N. Y. 71, and Moore v. Mitchell,
supra,go deeper than objections to extraterritorial collection. They involve questions of the vitality of the taxing law itself when sought to be applied to raise
obligations and impose liens within the confines of another State. The attempt of Massachusetts here is to
impose a contractual liability upon trustees who neither
made themselves amenable to, nor sought the protection
in any way of, the Commonwealth, and to reach over into
Missouri in the attempted impressment of a lien on assets
held ifi Missouri. Massachusetts is attempting to base
her right upon revenue laws claimed to have extraterritorial effect.
A controversy arises from the denial by Missouri of
the effect of her reciprocity statute. The extent of reciprocal legislation was commented upon in Farmers Loan
& Trust Co. v. Minnesota, 280 U. S. 204, where it was
said that thirty-five States had already in some form
granted relief against double taxation.
In view of the holding in Curry v. McCanless, supra,
and Graves v. Elliott, supra, the need for reciprocal legislation to avoid the evils of double taxation becomes of
paramount importance. See, Orr, "Reciprocal Exemptions from Inheritance Taxation," 18 Boston University
Law Rev. 39.
Has not Massachusetts an interest in the question
whether Missouri legally withholds the exemption
granted by her statute?
Enactment of mutual reciprocity laws is assanption
of mutual obligations between the States. Ther6, was
something of the nature of a continuing, although revocable, offer to other States, for the duration of a reciprocity law, to grant exemptions in respect of property of
citizens of other States, if the States of their domiciles
g ranted similar exemptions in respect of property of

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI
Argument for Respondents.

citizens of the legislating State. This was not mere
comity, since it contemplated a quid pro quo. the Missouri reciprocity statute was more than a mere exemption
law. The nature of Missouri's obligation to Massachusetts is much like the contractual obligation expressed in
§§ 85 and 90 of the American Law Institute's Restatement of the Law of Contracts.
The interest of a State such as Massachusetts granting
an exemption and claiming reciprocity transcends an interest in the individual benefits to accrue to its own citizens. Florida v. Mellon, 273 U. S. 12, 16. It is a public
interest which Massachusetts has in the reciprocal
exemptions upon which its own exemptions are postulated. Missouri should not be permitted unless she can
show just cause, to violate her statute when her citizens
are entitled to exemptions in Massachusetts. There
would be a constitutional inhibition against the subsequent withdrawal of the benefit conferred at the date of
Mrs. Blake's death. City Bank Farmers' Trust Co. v.
New York Central R. Co:, 253 N. Y. 49. Reciprocity, it
is believed,' furnishes an expedient of accord without
violation of the compact clause; for the obligation arising
out of reciprocal legislation is not such as requires the
consent of Congress. This is true because (1) the obligation, although contractual in nature, is not rested upon
manifestation of assent so as to fall within the meaning
of "compact" or "agreement" in the constitutional sense
and (2) no interest of the United States is involved.
Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S. 503, 518-519; Stearns v.
Minnesota, 179 U. S. 223, 244-245; Union Branch R. Co.
v. East Tennessee & Georgia R. Co., 14 Ga. 327, 339,
State v. Joslin, 116 Kans. 615, 618-619.
A controversy arises on the part of each State against
the other by reason of the effect of the other's tax upon
its public charities.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

308 U. S.

Controversies between the States and between each of
the States and the respondent trustees arise out of the
attempts of each State to collect a tax upon the trust
property in Missouri. The subject matter is single.
With the existence of reciprocity, there can be not more
than one tax payable. There being not more than a
single liability, damage to the respondent trustees arises
from the multiple assertion of claims. The assumption
of jurisdiction by this Court would avoid a multiplicity
of suits. The existence of controversies capable of being
initiated in other courts presupposes the original jurisdiction of this Court.
Mr. Edward H. Miller, with whom Mr. Roy McKittrick, Attorney General of Missouri, was on the brief,
for the State of Missouri, respondent.
A request for an opinion does not present a case or
controversy. United States v. West Virginia, 295 U. S.
463; Texas v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 258 U. S.
158; New Jersey v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328; Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447.
Massachusetts is only asking for a declaration of
whether it, or Missouri, has the right to levy an inheritance tax, aad "this Court may not be called on to give
advisory opinions or to pronounce declaratory judgments." Alabama v. Arizona, 291 U. S. 286, 291; Ashwander v. T. V. A., 297 U. S. 288, 324; Arizona v. California, 283 U. S. 423; Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262
U. S. 553.
The supposed dispute is political and therefore not
justiciable. Fowler v. Lindsey, 3 Dall. 410; Virginia v.
West Virginia, 11 Wall. 39; Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall.
50; Massachusetts v. Mellon, supra; Kansas v. Colorado,
185 U. S. 125; Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, 12 Pet.
657.

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI.
Argument for Respondent.

There is no direct conflict of interests between the two
States. The trust assets are far more than adequate for
the payment of the total taxes claimed by them both.
Distinguishing Texas v. Florida, 306 U. S. 398. The
claims of the two are completely independent, are not
mutually exclusive in any way, aiid Missouri has neither
done nor threatened any act tending to interfere with the
collection by Massachusetts of its asserted tax. Muskrat
v. United States, 219 U. S. 346.
Missouri is not threatening any private or property
right of Massachusetts. The Court. has declared that
only certain types of state rights will be protected from
threatened invasion. Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 277; Georgia v. Stanton, 6 Wall. 50,
77; United States v. West Virginia, 295 U. S. 463.
The right to tax is an attribute of general sovereignty,
as distinguished from a property right.. McCulloch v..
Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 428; Providence Bank v. Billings, 4 Pet. 514, 564; Case of the State Freight Tax, 15
Wall. 232, 278; Cooley on Taxation, 3rd ed., p. 7. An
invasion by Missouri of the Massachusetts jurisdiction to
tax, would not affect a private or property right, and
therefore could not present a justiciable controversy.
While the property right requirement has been relaxed
in water rights cases so as to permit a State to sue as
parens patriae,Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208; Kansas
v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125, such cases present no analogy
to the case at bar.
Massachusetts is not the real party in interest. Oklahoma v. Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 277;
Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 287; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S. 249, 259;
Oklahoma v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 290; New
Hampshire v. Louisiana, 108 U. S. 76; Kansas v. United
States, 204 U. S. 331; Floridav. Anderson, 91 U. S. 667;

10

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

308 U.S.

Louisianav. Texas, 176 U. S. 1; North Dakota v. Minnesota, 263 U. S. 3d5. '
If there is a separate controversy between a State and
citizens of another State, necessary parties are absent,
whose joinder 4ould oust the jurisdiction. California v.
Southern PaCific Co., 157 U.S. 228; Arizona v. California,
298 U. S.558. See also dissents in South Dakota v. North
Carolina, 192 .S. 286, 322, and Pennsylvania v. West
Virginia, 262 U. S.553, 605. The beneficiaries under the
trust are thel only. persons really interested in the issue
framed by Massachusetts. Cf. Texas v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, .258 U. S.158, 163; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 184 U. S.199, 246.
. The allegations afford no adequate basis for relief according to accepted doctrines of equity jurisprudence.
Texas v. Florida,306 U. S.398. Massachusetts was faced
*with no p6ssible risk of loss from anything that Missouri
might do.
Even if the Court has jurisdiction it may decline to
exercise it. Courts need not in every- case exercise a
juxisdictlon which they admittedly possess. The statenent in Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. '264, repeated in
Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 1, 58; Hyde v.
Stone, 20 How. 170; Chicot -eounty v. Sherwood, 148
U. S.'529; and McClellan v. Carland, 217 U. S.268, that
a court can not decline to exercise its jurisdiction, is subject to exceptions. Canada Malting Co. v. Paterson
Steamships, 285 U. S.413; Rogers v. Guaranty Trust Co.,
288 U. S. 123;. Pennsylvania v. Williams, 294 U. S. 176.
Cf., Douglas v. New York, N. H., & H. R. Co., 279 U. S.
377.
The constitutional provision conferring jurisdiction in
controversies between States, and, between States and
citizens of other States, is not mandatory. If the language of the first Judiciary Act can properly be used as
a contemporaneous interpretation of the constituti6nal

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI.
.1

Argument for Respondent.

provisions, Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449, it would seem
that "all" controversies where a State is a party, the language of the statute, would have required the reading of
the word "all" into the constitutional provision of clause
1 dealing with controversies between States, especially
since clause 2 apparently distributes to the Supreme
Court jurisdiction in "all" cases in which a State is a
party. However, the Court has declined to accept that
interpretation, has said that the omission in clause 1 of
the word "all" was apparently deliberate, and intended
to be a contrast between the classes of cases in clause 1
which are preceded by the word "all," and thus that the
judicial power does not extend to all controversies to
which the United States is a party, or to all controversies between a State and citizens of another State, but
rather only to certain types of those controversies. Williams v. United States, 289 U. S. 553; Oklahoma v. Gulf,
C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 290. And it has read into
the constitutional language certain cases not even mentioned. The Court has approved Mr. Justice Iredell's
dissent in Chisholm v. Georgia, and has declared that the
doctrine of the implied immunity of a sovereign from
suit must be read into the constitutional language, and
that its literal construction is inadmissible. Williams v.
United States, supra; Hans v. Louisiana, 134 U. S. 1.
The Court has also read into the constitutional provision
a prohibition against suits by a foreign State against a
State. Principality of Monaco v. Mississippi, 292 U. S.
313, 322; Oklahoma v. Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 200 U. S.
290. In fact, in Williams v. United States, supra, the
Court said that the phrase "Controversies to which the
United States shall be a Party" in Article III, § 2, clause
1, which it placed upon precisely the same footing as the
clause "Controversies between two or more States," must
be construed in accordance with the practical construction put upon it by the first Judiciary Act, as though it

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Respondent.

308 U. S.

read, "controversies to which the United States shall be
a party plaintiff or petitioner." 289 U. S. 577. The
same principle has been given an even broader application. Wisconsin v. Pelican Ins. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 289
Missouri v. Illinois, 180 U. S. 208.
It is interesting to note that the Court has grafted a
further exception upon the exception that suits which
were not justiciable prior to the Constitution were not
made justiciable by the Constitution. Hans v. Louisiana, supra. It is also interesting to observe that the interpretation. of the Constitution and the Judiciary Act
as differentiating, although the language itself suggests
no such differentiation, betwebn suits by a State or the
United States, and suits agaijst a State or the United
States, was arrived at even although in the very language
of the Judiciary Act, an express distinction is made between suits by ambassadors and other foreign representatives, and suits against them.
If the.language of the Constitution and the Judiciary
Act were taken literally in connection with controversies
between, for example, a State and citizens of other States,
it would appear to authorize the Supreme Court to take
jurisdiction in every case where a State and citizens of
other States are adversary parties. The Court has, how ever, interpreted this language so that the grant of power
is only considered as extending to justiciable cases or
controversies, of a civil nature, in which a State as plaintiff or petitioner sues only citizens of other States. Thus
if the Court can read into the language of the Constitution certain exceptions which are perhat not di.ectly
suggested by its terms, but which are derived from postulates beyond the confines of the Constitution, it would
appear to be at liberty to decline to exercise jurisdiction
in. this case, on grounds equally compelling, and on postulates equally beyond the confines of the constitutional
and statutory language. Cf., the dissenting. opinion of

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI.

I

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Chief Justice Fuller in United States v. Texas, 143
U. S. 621, 648.
The Court should decline to exercise jurisdiction in
this case. This proceeding is not of the kind for which
the original jurisdiction of this Court was designed.
There are other entirely adequate remedies available to
the interested parties. There are other remedies in other
courts which are entirely adequate to dispose of any
possible differences between the parties interested in this
case. Massachusetts should be able to bring a suit
against the trustees for the collection of its taxes, in either
a Missouri state court or in a federal district court in
Missouri, and such a suit would be of a civil nature and
would present a justiciable case or controversy. There
is no question about the remedies available for a testing
of the validity of the Missouri tax. The trustees could
sue to enjoin the collection of the Missouri tax on the
ground that it is unconstitutional as applied to them,
Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.123; or could bring an action
under the Missouri Declaratory Judgment Act, Laws of
Missouri 1935, pp. 218-220. And the Missouri inheritance tax laws, § 598, R. S: Mo., 1929, permit persons
interested in their liability for an inheritance tax to bring
suit against the State to quiet title, to which suit the
State expressly consents.
MR..CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts asks leave to file
a bill of complaint against the State of Missouri and certain citizens of that State. On return to the order to
show cause why leave should not be granted,, the respondents, -while contesting the claims of Massachusetts,
stated that they had no cause to show. The Court set
the motion for hearing upon the questior whether the
Court has jurisdiction to entertain the sdit. The com.

14

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U.S.

plainant and the individual.respondents contend that the
Court has jurisdiction and the State of Missouri now
presents the contrary view.
The argument for jurisdiction rests upon two grounds,
(1) that there is a controversy between two States, and
(2) that there is a controversy between a State and citizens of another State. Constitution, Article III, § 2,
paragraphs 1 and 2.
The proposed bill of complaint alleges in substance that
Madge Barney Blake, domiciled in Massachusetts, died in
1935 leaving an estate in that State of $12,646.02, which
has there been administered, and that this estate will be
exhausted by costs of administration and federal taxes;
that the decedent, while domiciled in Massachusetts,
created three trusts of securities of the value (at the time
of death) of $1,850,789.77, the trustees being residents of
Missouri where the securities are held; that in two of
these trusts, embracing the greater part of the securities,
the settlor had reserved the right of revocation; that both
Massachusetts and Missouri have inheritance tax statutes
subjecting to taxation property passing by deed, grant or
gift made or intended to take effect in possession or enjoyment after the death of the donor; that the Massachusetts statute imposes the tax upon intangibles only
when owned by inhabitants of that State; that the
Missouri statute exempts from the tax intangibles owned
by non-residents who reside in States extending reciprocal
provisions to residents of Missouri; that in this instance
both States are claiming the exclusive right to impose
inheritance taxes upon the trust estates; that Missouri
intends to exercise its jurisdiction over the trustees and
the property to the exclusion of Massachusetts; that
Massachusetts has taken the action required by its
statutes to determine the amount of the tax, and to certify it to the persons by whom it is payable, and that
there is now due to Massachusetts from the respondent

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI.
1

Opinion of the Court.

trustees $137,000, if all the trust estates are taxable, and
$127,000 if only the property under the two revocable
trusts is taxable; and that the tax cannot be collected
from any persons or property in Massachusetts.
Alleging the absence of adequate remedy save in this
Court sitting as a court in equity, the complainant prays
that the Court may adjudge whether Massachusetts or
Missouri has "the jurisdiction and lawful right to impose
trainsfer, succession or inheritance taxes" in respect of
the several transfers described and to determine that
question in favor of Massachusetts. There is also a general prayer for other relief by injunction or otherwise
as the Court may deem expedient.
First.-The proposed bill of complaint does not present
a justiciable controversy between the States. To consti1ate such a controversy, it must appear that the complaining State has suffered a wrong through the action
of the other State, furnishing ground for judicial redress,
or is asserting a right against the other State which is
susceptible of judicial enforcement according to the accepted principles of the common law or equity systems
of jurisprudence. Floridav. Mellon, 273 U. S.12, 16, 17;
Texas v. Florida, 306 U. S.398, 405. Missouri, in claiming a right to recover taxes from the respondent trustees,
or in taking proceedings for collection, is not injuring
Massachusetts. By the allegations, the property held in
Missouri is amply sufficient to answer the claims of both
States and recovery by either does not impair the exercise
of any right the other-may have. It is not shown that
there is danger of the depletion of a fund or estate at
the expense of the complainant's interest. It is not
shown that the tax claims of the two States are mutually
exclusive. On the contrary, the validity of gach claim
is wholly independent of that of the other and, in
the light of our recent decisions, may constitutionally
be pressed by each State without conflict in point of.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

fact or law with the decision of the other. Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357; Graves v. Elliott, 307 U. S. 383.
The question is thus a different one from that presented
in Texas v. Florida, supra, where the controlling consideration was that by the law of the several States
concerned only a single tax could be laid by a single
State, that of the domicile. This was sufficient basis for
invoking the equity jurisdiction of the Court, where it
also appeared that there was danger that through successful prosecution of the claims of the several States
in independent suits enough of the estate would be
absorbed to deprive some State of its lawful tax. Texas,
v. Florida,supra, 405, 406, 408, 410.
Massachusetts urges that a controversy has arisen over
the enforcement of the reciprocal provisions of the tax
statutes of the two States. It is said that Missouri has
enacted reciprocal legislation under which there is exempted from taxation the transfer of intangibles where
the transferor at the time of death was a resident of a
State which at that time did not impose a transfer or
death tax in respect of the intangible property of residents of other States or if the laws of the State of
residence contained a reciprocal exemption provision
(Missouri Rev. Stat. 1929, c. 1, art. 21, § 576); and that
Massachusetts since 1927 (St. 1927, c. 156) has granted
complete exemption from the inheritance tax to intangible property not belonging to its inhabitants. Mass.
General Laws (Ter. Ed.) c. 65, § 1. The argument is that
Massachusetts and its residents are entitled to the immunity offered by the Missouri statute.
But, apart from the fact that there is no agreement or
compact between the States having constitutional sanction (Const. Art. 1, § 10, par. 3), the enactment by Missouri of the so-called reciprocal legislation cannot be
regarded as conferring upon Massachusetts any contractual right. Each State has enacted its legislation ac-

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI.
Opinion of the Court.

cording to its conception of its own interests. Each State.
has the unfettered right at any time to repeal its legislation. Each State is competent to construe and apply its
legislation in the cases that arise within its jurisdiction.
If it be assumed that the statutes of the two States have
been enacted with a view to reciprocity in operation,
nothing is shown which can be taken to alter their essential character as mere legislation and to create an obligation which either State is entitled to enforce as against
the other in a court of justice.
The suggestion that residents of Massachusetts are entitled to t,.- immunity offered by the Missouri statute is
unavailing, as Massachusetts may not invoke our jurisdiction for the- benefit of such individuals. Oklahoma v.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co., 220 U. S. 277, 286; Oklahoma v. Cook, 304 U. S. 387, 394.
Nor does the nature of the suit as one to obtain a
declaratory judgment aid the complainant. To support
jurisdiction to give such relief, there must still be a controversy in the constitutional sense (Aetna Lile Insurance
Co. v. Haworth, 300 U. S. 227, 240, 241) and as between
the two States there is no such controversy here.
Second.-Complainant urges that jurisdiction may be
sustained in the view that the proposed bill of complaint
presents a controversy between Massachusetts and citizens of Missouri. The bill is not aptly framed so as
to present such a controversy independently of a controversy between the States. The bill expressly states
the issues presented as being (a) whether Massachusetts
or Missouri has exclusive jurisdiction over the transfers
in trust so as to have the taxing power, and (b) secondarily, whether the State having such jurisdiction can
constitutionally reach one of the trusts in which the
settlor reserved no right of revocation. And the specific
relief sought is that the Court may determine which
State has the jurisdiction to tax and may award that

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

jurisdiction to Massachusetts as against Missouri. If
the gravamen of the proposed bill is deemed to be an
assertion of a controversy between the States, jurisdiction
to entertain the bill cannot be supported in the absence
of the showing of such a controversy. Missouri cannot
be brought into court by th*e expedient of making its
citizens parties to a suit otherwise not maintainable
, against the State.
With respect to the second ground of invoking jurisdiction, as an independent ground, we are virtually asked
to disregard the stated objective of the proposed bill, to
treat it as amended so as to expunge claims against Missouri and to confine it to claims against the trustees; to
consider the bill as no longer asking a declaratory judgment as to which State has power to tax, as not seeking
relief in this Court "sitting as a court of equity," but,
in the light of the general prayer for other relief, as presenting a simple action against the trustees to recover
the amount of the tax claimed to be due Massachusetts
irrespective of any claim of Missouri.
If it be possible to consider the proposed bill as thus
stripped of its abortive allegations against Missouri and
as presenting a cause of action so distinct from that primarily relied upon, still the invocation of our jurisdiction
must fail. In the exercise of our original jurisdiction so
as truly to fulfill the constitutional purpose we not only
must look to the nature of the interest of the complaining State-the essential quality of the right asserted but
we must also inquire whether recourse to that jurisdiction
in an action by a State merely to recover money alleged
lo be due from citizens of other States is necessary for
the State's protection. In Oklahoma v. Cook, supra, we
called attention to the'enormous burden which would be
imposed upon this Court if by taking title to assets of insolvent state institutions, including claims against citizens
of other States, a State could demand access to the origi-

MASSACHUSETTS v. MISSOURI.
I

Opinion of the Court.

nal jurisdiction of this Court to enforce such claims. To
open this Court to actions by States to recover taxes
claimed to be payable by citizens of other States, in the
absence of facts showing the necessity for such intervention, would be to assume a burden which the grant of
original jurisdiction cannot be regarded as compelling this
Court to assume and which might seriously interfere with
the discharge by this Court of its duty in deciding the
cases and controversies appropriately brought before it.
We have observed that the broad statement that a court
having jurisdiction must exercise it (see Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 404) is not universally true but has
been qualified in certain cases where the federal courts
may, in their discretion, properly withhold the exercise
of the jurisdiction conferred upon them where there is
no want of another suitable forum. Canada Malting Co.
v. Paterson Co., 285 U. S.413, 422; Rogers v. Guaranty
Trust Co., 288 U. S. 123, 130, 131. Grounds for justifying such a qualification have been found in "considerations of convenience, efficiency and justice" applicable to
particular classes of cases. Rogers v. Guaranty Trust
Co., supra. Reasons not less cogent point to the need of
the exercise of a sound discretion in order to protect this
Court from an abuse of the opportunity to resort to its
original jurisdiction in the enforcement by States of
claims against citizens of other States.
In this instance it does not appear that Massachusetts
is without a proper and adequate remedy. Clause 2 of
§ 2 of Article III merely distributes the jurisdiction conferred by clause one. Louisianav. Texas, 176 U. S'1, 16;
Monaco v. Mississippi, 292 U. S.313, 321. The original
jurisdiction of this Court, in cases where a State is a
party, "refers to those cases in which, according to the
grant of power made in the preceding clause, jurisdiction
might be exercised in consequence of the character of the
party, and an original suit might be instituted in any of

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the federal Courts; not to those cases in which an original
suit might not be instituted in a federal Court." Cohens
*v. Virginia, supra, pp. 398, 399. With respect to the
character of the claim now urged, we are not advised that
Missouri would close its courts to a civil action brought
by Massachusetts to recover the tax alleged to be due
from the trustees. The Attorney General of Missouri at
this bar asserts the contrary. He says that "it would
seem that Massachusetts should be able to bring a suit
against the trustees for the collection of its taxes in either
a Missouri state court or in a federal district court in Missouri" and that "such a suit would be of a civil nature
and would present a justiciable case or controversy." We
have said that the objection that the courts in one State
will not entertain a suit to recover taxes due to another or
upon a judgment for such taxes, is not rightly addressed
to any want of judicial power in courts which are authorized to entertain civil suits at law. It goes "not to
the jurisdiction but to the merits," and raises a question which district courts are competent to decide. Mil-,
waukee County v. M. E. White Co., 296 U. S. 268, 272.
The motion for leave to file\the proposed bill of complaint is denied.
Motion denied.
MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

took no part in the consideration

and decision of this case.

