GRIFFITHS v. COMMISSIONER.
343

Opinion of the Court.

Because the laws of Kansas deny interest on tax
refunds, I concur in the modification of the judgment
below.'
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

concurs in this opinion.

GRIFFITHS v. COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 49. Argued December 5, 1939.-Decided December 18, 1939.
A taxpayer 'cannot escape or postpone the income tax on the profit
derived from a sale of his stock by interposing as vendor in the
transaction a corporation formed for the purpose and wholly controlled by himself, which, in form, receives from him a conveyance
of the shares, transfers them to the purchaser, receives the purchaser's money and agrees to pay it over to the taxpayqr in annual instalments. P. 357.
103 F. 2d 110, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 531, to review a decision which reversed an .order-of the Board of Tax Appeals, 37 B. T. A.
314, overruling a deficiency income tax assessment.

Mr. Herman A. Fischer, with whom Mr. Delbert A.
Clithero was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Arnold Raum, with whom Solicitor General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, and Joseph M. Jones were
on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER delivered 'the opinion of

the Court.
The case is here to review a decision of the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, 103 F. 2d 110,
'Cf. Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S. 64.

356

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

reversing an order of the Board of Tax Appeals, 37, B.
T. A. 314, which had overruled a deficiency assessment
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in petitioner's
income tax return -for 1933. We granted certiorari,
po8t, p. 531, because of an alleged conflict between the
decision below and that of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit in Smith v. Higgins, 102 F. 2d 456;
post, p. 473.
The facts are undisputed, and, for purposes of our
decision, may be thus abridged: In 1926 Griffiths, the
petitioner, paid one Lay $100,000 for some stock. The
investment was unprofitable, and the upshot of a complicated series of transactions was allowance to Griffiths
by the Commissioner of a deductible loss of $92,500 for
the year 1931 resulting from a sale of the stock by
Griffiths to a family corporation. Thereafter, in 1932,
Griffiths got wind of the fact that Lay had defrauded
him irr the 1926 sale. Negotiations were begun for a
settlement of Griffiths' claim against Lay, and by January
1933, Griffiths' lawyer had devised an arrangement for
such a settlement. The gist of the arrangement was
this: Griffiths was to re-acquire the shares, convey them
to a corporation newly created for the purpose of furthering the scheme and wholly controlled by Griffiths, which
in turn was to transfer the stock back to Lay for $100,000
to be paid by him, and that sum was to be paid over by
the corporation to Griffiths in annual installments for
forty years, with interest on the deferred payments.1 The
1

Of the total sum paid, $15,000 was to be applied by the corpora-

tion in payment of a personal indebtedness owed by Griffiths. This
sum, of course, was clearly income to petitioner. The remainder was
to be paid in installments by the corporation to Griffiths. Petitioner contends that these installments alone are taxable to him as
they are paid, under the provisions of ยง 44 of the Revenue Act of
1932, c. 209, 47 Stat. 169.

GRIFFITHS v. COMMISSIONER.
355

Opinion of the Court.

essentials of this scheme were carried out. Its purposeto disguise by intervening elaborations what in fact was a
rescission of the original purchase by Griffiths for $100,000
-was made more manifest by these facts: Griffiths personally re-acquired and transferred the shares to Lay
without revealing the existence of the new corporation,
gave Lay a personal release of all claims against him, and
personally received from Lay the $100,000 which he -then
turned over to the corporation.
On these findings the-Tommissioner ruled that Griffiths,
having beefi allowed a deduction for loss attributable to
the stock purchased from Lay and having now recouped
that loss through settlement of his claim against Lay, was
subject to tax for the amount of the settlement in 1933.
We think the Commissioner was right, and that the Circuit Court of Appeals properly reversed the Board of Tax
Appeals.
The facts leave little scope for legal explication.
Griffiths had a claim for fraud against Lay which, when
satisfied, wiped out the loss for which he had received an
earlier deduction. Had satisfaction of the claim come to
him without any conduit, it would have indisputably
been his income. The claim having been recognized by
Lay and cast into a form realizable by Griffiths, a lawyer's
ingenuity devised a technically elegant arrangement
whereby an intricate outward appearance was given to
the simple sale from Griffiths to Lay and the passage of
money from Lay to Griffiths. That was the crux of the
business to Griffiths, and that is the crux of the business to us.
We cannot too often reiterate that "taxation is not so
much concerned with the refinements of title as it is with
actual command over the property taxed-the actual
benefit for which the tax is.paid." Corliss v. Bowers, 281
U. S. 376, 378. And it makes no difference that such

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

"command" may be exercised through specific retention
of 'legal title or the creation of a new equitable but controlled interest, or the maintenance of effective benefit
through the interposition of a subservient agency. Cf.
Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465. "A given result at
the end of a straight path," this Court said in Minnesota
Tea Co. v. Helvering, 302 U. S. 609, 613, "is not made a
different result because reached by following a devious
path." Legislative words are not inert, and derive vitality from the obvious purposes at which they are aimed,
particularly in the provisions of a tax law like those governing installment sales in ยง 44 of the Revenue Act of
1932. Taxes cannot be escaped "by anticipatory arrangements and contracts however skilfully devised . ... by

which the fruits are attributed to a different tree from
that on which they grew.". Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111,
115. What Lay gave, Griffiths in reality got, and on that
he must be taxed.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

BUCKSTAFF BATH HOUSE CO. v. McKINLEY,
COMMISSIONER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR OF ARKANSAS, .T

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 201. Submitted December 4, 1939.-Decided December 18, 1939.
An Arkansas corporation, organized for profit and having its only
place of business within the Government Reservation known as
Hot Springs National Park, maintained and operated, under a
long term lease from the Secretary of the Interior, a bath house,
which it erected and equipped. The operation and use of the
bath house facilities were subject to regulations promulgated by
the Department of the Interior. The corporation had more than
eight persons in its employ. Held:
1. The corporation was not an "instrumentality of the United
States" within the meqning of the federal Social Security, Act;

