488

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

DEPUTY, ADMINISTRATRIX,

308 U. S.

ET AL. V. DU

PONT.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 151.

Argued December 12, 1939.-Decided January 8, 1940.

1. In calcuiafing net income for taxation a deduction from gross income is allowhble only if there is clear statutory provision therefor. P. 49.
2. In determiing what are "ordinary' and necessary" expenses of a
taxpayer's "trade or business," within the meaning of § 23 (a)
under the Revenue Act of 1928, resort is had to the popular or
received import of thoe words. P. 493.
3. An ordinary expense is one that is normal, usual or customary;
a transaction that gives rise to it mustbe of common or regular
occurrence in the type of business involved. P. 495.
4. The fact that an expense would be an ordinary and common one
in the course of one business does not necessarily make it such in
connection with another business. P. 495.
5. Carrying chL:.ges on short sales of stock made by a stockholder
t6 assist his corporation and preserve his investment in it can not
be deductid as ordinary and'necessary expenses of his business
where it does not appear that he was in the business of trading
in. securities, or that stockholders, engaged in conserving and enhancing their estates, ordinarily assist their corporations in similar
fashion. Pp. 493 et seq.
6. In order to aid a plan of his corporation to increase the efficiency
of its management by selling some of its stock to executive employees-the corporation not being able legally to sell directlyand to the end that by the plan his beneficial interest in the corporation might be conserved and enhanced, a stockholder made
short sales to the executives (the corporation lending them the
price) and borrowed the shares requisite to fulfill his contracts;
when the borrowing- period was up he restored equivalent shares
to the lender by borrowing them elsewhere under a contract which
in time obliged him to pay to the second lender (a) a sum equal
to dividends received by him on the borrowed shares, and (b) a
suxft equal to the lender's income tax on such payments. Assuming
that the activities of the stockholder in conserving and enhancing
his estate constitute a "trade" or "business" within the meaning
of § 23 (a) of the Revenue Act of 1928, held:

DEPUTY v.

DU

PONT.

1489

Opinion of the Court.

488

(1) That these expenditures were not deductible in computing
the stockholder's income because they proximately resulted not
from the taxpayer's business but from the business of the corporation, and because they were neither "ordinary" nor "necessary"
expenses of his business within the meaning of § 23 (a). Pp. 494
et seq.
(2) Such expenditures were not deductible as "interest paid or
accrued . . . on indebtedness" under subsection 23 (b) of the
Act. P. 497.
7. Although an indebtedness is an obligation, an obligation is not
necessarily an "indebtedness" within the meaning of § 23 (b). Interest in its usual import is the amount which one has contracted
to pay for the use of borrowed money. In the business world
interest on indebtedness means compensation for the use or forbearance of money. it is assumed that Congress has used the
words in that sense. P. 497.
103 F. 2d 257, reversed; 22 F. Supp. 589, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 533, to review the reversal of a judgment of the District Court rendered against the present
respondent in his action to recover money collected as
income taxes.
Mr. Robert K. McConnaughey, with
whom Solicitor

General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and
Messrs. Sewall Key, Newton K. Fox, and Richard H.
Demuth were on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper, with whom Mr. James
S. Y. Ivins was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents the question of whether respondent
in computing his taxable net income for the year 1931
may deduct payments of $647,711.56 made by him in that
year to the Delaware Realty and Investment Co. (1kereinafter called the Delaware Company).; The deduction is
sought either under § 23 (a) of the Revenue Act of i928
(45 Stat. 791) as "ordinary and necessary expenses paid

OCTOBER TERM, -1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

or incurred during the taxable year in carrying on" the
"trade or business" of respondent; or under § 23 (b)' as
"interest paid or accrued within the taxable year on
indebtedness." The Commissioner disallowed the deduction and determined a deficiency, which respondent paid
and now seeks to recover. It is agreed that if the deduction is allowed, respondent is entitled to judgment for
$172,351.64. The judgment of the District Court against
respondent, 22 F. Supp. 589, was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, 103 F. 2d 257. We granted certiorari
because of the asserted inconsistency of that ruling with
Welch v. Htering, 290 U. S. 111, which construed the
meaning of the words "ordinary and necessary expenses";
and with Burnet v. Clark, 287 U. S. 410, which limited
such deductions to losses directly connected with the taxpayer's business.
Respondent's claim to the deduction arose out of the
following transactions, briefly summarized. Respondent
was beneficial owner of about 16% of the .stock of E. I.
du Pont de Nemours and Company (hereinafter called
the du Pont Company). In 1919 the du Pont Company
constituted a new executive committee composed of nine
young men. For business reasons, it thought it desirable
that these men have a financial interest in the company.
Alleged legal difficulties stood in the way of the du Pont
Company selling them the 9,000 shares desired.1 Accordingly, respondint undertook to sell them 1,000 shares each.
As stated by the District Court, counsel advised that the du Pont
Company could issue stock only for money paid, labor performed, or
real or personal property acquired; and that if the stock were to be
issued for cash, it must first be offered to existing stockholders. According to the findings the du Pont Company did not have 9,000 shares
of its stock, other than unissued stock; that stock was not then listed
-on the New York Stock Exchange; and the over-the-counter market
was quite inactive. Nine thousand shares could not have been purchased on this.market without substantially raising.the price per share.

DEPUTY
488

V. DU

PONT.

Opinion of the Court.

But since he did not have readily available that amount
from his own holdings,2 he borrowed 9,000 shares of the
di Pont Company from Christiana Securities Company,
under an agreement whereby he agreed to return the stock
loaned in kind within ten years and in the interim to pay
to the lender all dividends declared and paid on the shares
so loaned.' Respondent thereupon sold the shares to the
nine executives, the purchase price being furnished by the
du Pont Company.
In October, 1929 when the ten-year
2

Respondent had available only seventy-four shares. He had a reversionary interest in two trusts which held 24,000 shares. And he
was the owner of 29,125 shares of common stock of Christiana Securities Company out of a total of 75,000 shares issued and outstanding. That company was then the owner of 183,000 shares of common stock of the du Pont Company out of a total of 588,542 shares
issued and outstanding.
:Supra, note 2.
'As security respondent gave Christiana Securities Company 3,800
shares of its capital stock. All dividends on that stock were to be
paid to respondent.
"These sales were made at the price of $320 a share, that being approximately their book value. The du Pont Company loaned to each
of the nine executives the necessary funds to purchase his 1,000 shares.
They paid respondent $2,880,000 in cash for the 9,000 shares. According to respondent's brief, he turned over this sum through transactions
in General Motors stock which ultimately yielded him a great profit.
See du Pont v. Commissioner, 37 B. T. A. 1198.
By March 1921, the stock of the du Pont Company had declined
in value and the bargain made by the executives had become a dis.
advantageous one. Respondent thereupon offered to turn over 400
shares of the Christiana Securities Company, (of a net value 'of
$160,000) to be held by the du Pont Company as additional collateral on the loan made to these executives, respondent to have the
right to redeem those 400 shares by payment of $160,000 on maturity
of the loan, that payment, if made, to be applied to the loan. If respondent failed to redeem those shares, they were to become the
property of the executives on payment of their loans. Meanwhile
dividends on the 400 shares up to $8,000 per annum were to go to
the executives, the balance to respondent who was, however, to re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

period was about toexpire, respondent did not have available the number of shares which he was obligated to
return to Christiana Securities Company." Therefore, he
arranged for a loan from the Delaware Company of
the number of shares necessary to discharge that obligation. Under a contract with that company, respondent
agreed to return in kind the number of shares loaned
(plus any increase by stock dividend or otherwise) within
ten years; to pay to the Delaware Company an amount
equivalent to all dividends declared and paid on the borrowed shares until returned; and to reimburse the Delaware Company for all taxes accruing against it by reason
of the agreement.
Pursuant to that agreement respondent paid the Delaware Company in 1931, the sum of $567,648, being an
amount equivalent to the dividends received by him durihg that period from the du Pont Company on the
borrowed shares; and the sum of $80,063.56, being the
amount of the federal income tax imposed upon the lender
by reason of the foregoing payments which it had received
from respondent. These are the expenditures claimed as
a deduction in the present suit.
The District Court concluded, on the basis of respondent's large and diversified investment holdings and his
turn his portion to the executives if he did not redeem the stock.
Tliis offer was accepted by the executives. Respondent when he
prdposed it, stated that he did so "as a large stockholder, and, ,perhaps, the one to be most benefited by the recovery in value of the
Company's shares." He also stated that he wanted the executives
to be "free of worry over the unexpected outcome" of the stock purchase plan.
'Due to stock dividends and split-ups respondent was obligated to
return to Christiana Securities Company 142,212 shares to replace
the 9,000 shares which he had borrowed.
'Respondent was not a stockholder of the Delaware Company

although it appears that his brother was one of its executive officers.

DEPUTY
488

V_ DU

PONT.

"493

Opinion of the Court.

wide financial and business interests, that his business was
primarily that of conserving and enhancing his estate.
The petitioners challenge that conclusion, asserting that
respondent's activities in connection with conserving and
enhancing his estate did- not constitute a "trade or business" within the meaning of § 23 (a) of the Act.
But as we view the case it is unnecessary for us to pass
on that contention and to make the delicate dissection of
administrative practice which that would entail. For we
are of the opinion that the deductions are not permitted
either within the rule of Burnet v. Clark, or Welch v.
Helvering, supra, even though we were to assume that the
activities of respondent constituted a business, as found
by the District Court.
There is no intimation in the record that the transactions whereby the stock was borrowed were not in good
faith or were entered into for any reason except a bona
fide business purpose. Nor is there any suggestion that
the transactions were cast in that form for purposes of
tax avoidance. And it is true that as respects the dividends received by respondent and paid over to the Delaware Company, he was little more than a conduit. But
allowance of deductions from gross income does not turn
on general equitable considerations. It "depends upon
legislative grace; and only as there is clear provision
therefor can any particular deduction be allowed." New
Colonial Ice Co. v. Helvering, 292 U. S. 435, 440. And
when it comes to construction of the statutory provision
under which the deduction is sought, the general rule that
"popular or received import of words furnishes the general rule for the interpretation of public laws," Maillard
v. Lawrence, 16 How. 251, 261, is applicable.
By those standards the claimed deduction falls for two
reasons. In the first place, the payments in question do
not "meetthe test enunciated in Kornhauser v. United

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

States, 276 U. S. 145, since they proximately result not
from the taxpayer's business but from the business of the
du Pont Company. The original transactions had their
origin in an effort by that company to increase the efficiency of its management by selling its stock to certain
of its key executives. The respondent undertook to furnish the necessary stock only after the company had been
advised that it could not legally do so. In that posture
of the case these payments are no more deductible than
were the payments made by the stockholder in Burnet v.
Clark, supra, as a result of his endorsements of the obligations of his corporation. Those payments were disallowed as deductions from his gross income though they
arose out of transactions which were intended to preserve
his investment in -,the corporation. Similar payments
were disallowed in Dalton v. Bowers, 287 U. S. 404.
Hence, the fact that the transaction out of which the
carrying charges here in question arose might benefit
respondent does not bring it within the ambit of his
alleged business of conserving and enhancing his estate.
The well established decisions of this Court do not permit
any such blending of the corporation's business with the
business of its stockholders. Accordingly, the payments
made under the 1919 agreement would certainly not be
deductible. And the fact that a new and different
arrangement was made in 1929 with the Delaware Company does not alter the conclusion, for it is the origin of
the liability out of which the expense accrues which is
material. Otherwise carrying charges on any short sale
whether or not related to the business of the taxpayer
would be allowable as deductible expenses. That cannot
be if the notion of proximate result implicit in the statutory words "expenses paid or incurred . . . in carrying on

any trade of business" is to have any vitality.
In the second place, these payments were not "ordinary"
ones for the conduct of the kind of business in .which, we

DEPUTY v.
488

DU

PONT.

Opinion of the Court.

assume arguendo, respondent wt s engaged. lhe District
Court held that they were "bey )nd the norm of general
and accepted business practice" and were in fact "so extraordinary as to occur in the li es of ordinary business
men not at all" and in the life of the respondent "but
once."
Certainly there are no norms of conduct to
which we have been referred or of which we are cognizant
which would bring these paymerns within the meaning
of ordinary expenses for conserviig and enhancing an
estate. We do not doubt the correctness of the District
Court's finding that respondent embarked on this program
to the end that his beneficial stock ownership in the du
Pont Company might be conserved and enhanced. But
that does not make the cost to him an "ordinary" expense within the meaning of the Act. Ordinary has the
connotation of normal, usual, or customary. To be sure,
an expense may be ordinary though it happen but once
in the taxpayer's lifetime. Cf. Korahauser v. United
States, supra. Yet the trahsaction which gives rise to it
must be of common or frequent occurrc nce in the type of
business involved. Welch v. Helvering, supra, 114.
Hence, the fact that a particular expense would be an
ordinary or common one in the course of one business
and so deductible under § 23 (a) does not necessarily make
it such in connection with another business. Thus, it has
been held that one who was an active trader in securities
might take as deductions carrying charges on short sales
since selling short was common in that business.' But
the carrying charges on respondent's short sale in this
22 F. Supp. 589, 597.
9

Dayt v. Commissioner, 74 F. 2d 845. Cf. Terbell v. Commissioner,

29 B. Ti A. 44, aff'd 71 F. 2d 1017, where such carrying charges were
disallowed as deductions. The Board of Tax Appeals said, p. 45,
"We have only the stipulated facts and there is no suggestion in those
facts that the decedent was engaged in the business of making short
sales or in dealing in securities generally."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

case cannot be accorded the same privilege under § 23 (a).
The record does not show that respondent was in the
business of trading in securities. Nor does it show that a
stockholder engaged in conserving and enhancing his
estate ordinarily makes short sales or similarly assists his
corporation in financing stock purchase plans for the benefit of its executives. As stated in Welch v. Helvering,
supra,pp. 113-114: "...
What is ordinary, though there
must always be a strain of constancy within it, is none the
less a variable affected by time and place and circumstance." One of the extremely relevant circumstances is
the nature and scope- of the particular business out of
which the expense in question accrued. The fact that an
obligation to pay has arisen is not sufficient. It is the
kind of transaction out of which the obligation arose and
its normalcy in the particular business which are crucial
and controlling.
Review of the many decided cases is of little aid since
each turns -on itz, special facts. But the principle is clear.
And on application of that principle to these facts, it
seems evident that the payments in question cannot be
placed in the category of those items of expense which a
conservator of an estate, a custodian of a portfolio, a
supervisor of a group of investments, a manager of wide
financial and business interests,, or a substantial stockholder in a corporation engaged in conserving and enhancing his estate would ordinarily incur. We cannot assume
that they Are embraced within the normal overhead 'or
operating costs of such activities. There is no evidence
that stockholders or investors, in furtherance of enhancing and conserving their estates, ordinarily or frequently
lend such assistance to employee stock purchase plans of
their corporations. And in absence of such evidence there
is no basis for an assumption, in experience or common
.owledge,
that these payments are to be placed in the
$a;e category as typically ordinary expenses of such activ-

DEPUTY
488

V. DU

PONT.

Opinion of the Court.

ities, e. g., rental of safe deposit boxes, cost of investment
counsel or of investment services, salaries of secretaries
and the like. Rather these payments seem to us to represent most extraordinary expenses for that type of activity.
Therefore, the claim for deduction falls, as did the claim
of an officer of a corporation who paid its debts to
strengthen his own standing and credit. Welch v.
Helvering, supra. And the fact that the payments might
have been necessary in the sense that consummation of
the transaction with the Delaware Company was beneficial to respondent's estate is of no aid. For Congress
has not decreed that all necessary expenses may be
deducted. Though plainly .necessary they cannot be
allowed unless they are also ordinary. Welch v. Helvering, supra.
We conclude then on this phase of the case that as the
District Court, on a correct interpretation of the Act,
found that these payments did not proximately result
from, and were not ordinary expenses for the conduct of,
respondent's alleged business, it was error for the Circuit
Court of Appeals to reverse the judgment for petitioners,
McCaughn v. Real Estate Land Title & Trust Co., 297
U. S. 606.
There remains respondent's contention that these payments are deductible under § 23 (b) as "interest paid or
accrued . . . on indebtedness." Clearly respondent owed
an obligation to the Delaware Company. But although
an indebtedness is an obligation, an obligation is not
necessarily an "indebtedness" within the meaning of
§ 23 (b). Nor are all carrying charges "interest." In
Old Colony R. Co. v. Commissioner, 284 U. S. 552, this
Court had before it the meaning of the word "interest"
as* used in the comparable provision of the 1921 Act
(42 Stat. 227). It said, p. 560, ". . . as respects 'interest,' the usual import of the term is the amount which
one has contracted to pay for the use of borrowed money."

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

It there rejected the contention that it meant "effective
interest" within the theory of accounting or that "Congress used the word having in mind any concept other
than the usual, ordinary and everyday meaning of the
term." p. 561. It refused to assume that the Congress
used the term with reference to "some esoteric concept
derived from subtle and theoretic analysis." p. 561.
We likewise refuse to make that assumption here. It is
not enough, as urged by respondent, that "interest" or
"indebtedness" in their original classical context may have
permitted this broader meaning.'" We are dealing with
the context of a revenue act and words which have today
a well-known meaning. In the business world "interest
on indebtedness" means compensation for the use or forbearance of money." In absence of clear evidence to the
contrary, we assume that Congress has used these words
in that sense. In sum, we cannot sacrifice the "plain,
obvious and rational meaning" of the statute even for
"the exigency of a hard case." See Lynch v. AlworthStephens Co., 267 U. S. 364, 370.
Petitioners throughout have referred to these payments
by respondent as being capital in nature. Cf. Bonwit
Teller & Co. v. Commissioner, 53 F. 2d 381; Hutton v.
Commissioner, 39 F. 2d 459; Bing v. Helvering, 76 F.
2d 941. What appropriate treatment may be accorded
Respondent refers to the mutuum in Roman Law. Ledlie's Sohm's
Institutes of Roman Law (2d Ed.), p. 395; Hare, The Law of Con-

tracts, p. 7M.
'1 This makes irrelevant other lines of authority cited by respondent
where "interest" in a different context has been used to describe damages or compensation for the detention or use of money or of property. See United States v. North Carolina,136 U. S. 211, 216; N. Y.

General Business Law, § 370, which provides;" "The rate of interest
upon the loan or forbearance of any money, goods, or things, in
action . . . shall be six dollars upon one hundred dollars, for-one
year, . . ."

DEPUTY v. DU PONT.
488

Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

these items of cost under other provisions of the Act we
do not undertake to say, as that issue is not here.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER, concurring.

What the activities of a taxpayer are is an issue for
determination by triers of fact. Whether such activities
constitute a "trade or business" as conceived by § 23 (a)
of the Revenue Act of 1928 (45 Stat. 791, 799), is open
for determination here unfettered by findings and rulings
below except for the weight of the intrinsic authority of
all lower court opinions. To avail of the deductions
allowed by § 23 (a), it is not enough to incur expenses in
the active concern over one's own financial interest.
" . . . carrying on any trade or business," within the
contemplation of § 23 (a), involves holding one's self out
to others as engaged in the selling of goods or services.
This the taxpayer did not do. Expenses for transactions
not connected with trade or business, such as an expense
for handling personal investments, are not deductible. It
is otherwise with losses. § 23 (e) (2). Without elaborating the reasons for this construction and not .unmindful of opposing considerations, including appropriate
regard for administrative practice, I prefer to make the
conclusion explicit instead of making the hypothetical,
litigation-breeding assumption that this taxpayer's activities, for which expenses were sought to be deducted, did
constitute a "trade or business."
MR. JUSTICE REED joins in these views.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS:

I feel constrained to state my views, not because this
case raises any important issue of law which should be

500

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of

ROBERTS, J.

308 U. S.

settled by this court; but, on the contrary because I
think it presents a question the answer to which depends
solely upon the facts disclosed by the record. Decision of
the controversy cannot be helpful in the administration
of the Revenue Acts or set any important precedent. I
think the writ should not have been granted and that it
now should be dismissed as improvidently granted. The
amount of taxes involved or the insistence of the Government that the court below erred in its application of the
law to the facts are not adequate reasons for review.
There is no dispute as to principle and no conflict with
any case in the application of any principle.
*The function of this court is to resolve conflicts of decision and to settle important principles of law. The
discretionary power of this court to review judgments of
lower federal courts was not intended to-be exercised in
every case where those courts have adjudicated the conflicting claims of the parties, which involves no important
principle of law and no conflict of decision amongst the
federal courts. Our rules adopted to carry out the policy
of the statutes granting the power to bring cases here by
certiorari have apprised the Bar and the public that w
will not take cases fully heard and adjudicated below
the mere purpose of reexamining the correctness of
result. (See Rule 38, par. 5.)
The dominant purpose evidenced by the income
statutes is to tax net income. The policy is to ci
against gross income the expenses of the business wl
begets earnings. The taxpayer is entitled to deduct tL
which he reasonably and in good faith expended in th,
effort to realize a profit. The revenue acts have always
characterized deductible expenses as the ordinary and
necessary expenses of the business, incurred and paid
during the taxable year. The opinion assumes that the
expenditure here in question was necessary in the conduct
of the taxpayer's business but holds that it was not an

DEPUTY v. nT PONT.
488

Opinion of

ROBERTS,

J.

ordinary expense of that business. Obviously what is an
ordinary expense of a given business must depend upon
the nature and scope of the business, the nature and occasion of the expenditure, and other considerations which
will emerge in each specific case. Necessarily the decision
of one case will have slight, if any, bearing upon the
proper decision of another. If this court is to take under
review every dispute in which the Government and a taxpayer differ as to whether a given expenditure is an ordinary or an extraordinary expense of the taxpayer's business we shall be involved in the decision of myriad cases,
each 'turning upon its own facts, without furnishing any
light to the taxpayers for their future guidance. I think
this is the result of the court's opinion. It is admitted
that the fact that the expenditure occurred but once in
the taxpayer's experience does not render it extraordinary. It must be admitted that the fact that it is a large
transaction does not render it extraordinary. What the
opinion does, in the upshot, is to canvass all the circumstances and reach, as I think, a conclusion based solely
upon the peculiar facts of this single case. W9 have
repeatedly warned the Bar and the public that this we
will not do because we do not sit for any such purpose.
An added reason for refusing to decide the case is the
admission that the Treasury and the Board of Tax Appeals
in years past have held a similar expense incurred in
earlier years an expense of the taxpayer's business. In
a matter resting so much in judgment and discretion as
the determination of what is ordinary and what extraordinary expenditure in a business the weight of a continued administrative construction is of peculiar importance; and we ought not now depart from the rule long
observed that such practice is entitled to high consideration at the hands of the courts and should not be overturned unless clearly wrong and for the most cogent
reasons.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of RoBERTS, J.

308 U. S.

Since the case has been taken and considered on the
merits I think the judgment below should be affirmed. I
need add little to the opinion of Judge Maris of the Circuit Court of Appeals, with which I 4gree. The taxpayer
borrowed stock in order to sell it for cash to others. His
contract obligated him either to return the stock or to pay
the carrying charges to the lender. What he paid was not
technically interest but it was an expense necessary to
his obtaining and using the stock. He had several alternatives: to pay the annual carrying charges, or to default,
and, in that case, to go into the market to buy the stock
and return it to the lender or to pay the lender the value
thereof.
What was there extraordiriary about this transaction
as compared with the borrowing of any commodity other
than stock for a business reason and with a business purpose? In the conduct of every business situations arise
which must be met. The circumstance that such a situation had not theretofore arisen, or that the transaction
was the first of its kind in the respondent's business
experience, does not render it extraordinary in the sense
in which the statute uses the term. The limitation placed
by C'ongress upon the types of expenditures made deductible was intended to prevent evasion of payment of tax
on true net income, which confessedly was not a motive in
the present instance. I think that under the guise of
enforcing the plain mandate of the statute the court is
really reading into the law what is not there and what
Congress did not intend to place there.
To suggest, even by indirection, that perchance the taxpayer's expenditure may be treated as a capital expenditure is, in my judgment, to keep the word of promise to
the ear and break it to the hope. In my view the carrying
charge of the taxpayer's loan was either an ordinary expense of his business or it was nothing of consequence
under any provision of the statute.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

joins in this opinion.

