OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308-U. S.

upon state law and raised by appellees in support df the
judgments of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.
Congress manifested its intention that the issue of jurisdiction in the foreclosing court need not be contested or
even raised by the distressed farmer-debtor. The protection of the farmers was left to the farmers themselves or
to the Commissioners who might be laymen, and considerations as to whether the issue of jurisdiction was
actually contested in the County Court,18 or whether it
could have been contested,'" are not applicable where the
plenary power of Congress over bankruptcy has been
exercised as in this Act.
The judgments in both cases are reversed and the causes
are remanded to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin for.
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
AVERY v. ALABAMA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 124.

Argued December 7, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. The guarantee by the Fourteenth Amendment of assistance of counsel in a criminal case, is not satisfied by a formal appointment of
counsel to defend the accused but includes an opportunity for
consultation between them and for preparation of the defense.
P. 446.
2. Upon xeview of a decision of a state court, the question whether
an accused has been denied the federal constitutional right to the
assistance of counsel, is to be determined by this Court upon an
independent examination of the record. P. 447.
3. Upon the record in this case, held that denial by the trial court
of a motion for a continuance, made by appointed counsel to obtain
1
1

Stoll v. Gottlieb, supra.
Chicot County 'Drainage District v. Baxter State Bank, supra.

AVERY v. ALABAMA.
444

Opinion of the Court.

more time to prepare the defense, did not, under the circumstances
disclosed, deprive the accused of his constitutional right to the
assistance of counsel. P. 450.
237 Ala. 616; 188 So. 391, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 540, to review the affirmance of a
conviction of murder.
Messrs. L. S. Moore and John Foshee, with whom
Mr. Edward H. Saunders was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Thomas S. Lawson, Attorney General of Alabama,
with whom Mr. William H. Loeb, Assistant Attorney
General, was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner was convicted of murder in the Circuit Court
of Bibb County, Alabama; he was sentenced to death and
the State Supreme 'Court affirmed.' The sole question
presented is whether in violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment "petitioner was denied the right of counsel,
with the accustomed incidents of consultation and opportunity of preparation for trial," because after competent counsel were duly appointed their motion for
continuance was denied. Vigilant concern for the maintenance of the constitutional right of an accused to
assistance of counsel led us to grant certiorari.2
Had petitioner been denied any representation of
counsel at all, such a clear violation of the Fourteenth
Amendment's guarantee of assistance of counsel would
have required reversal of his conviction2 But counsel
were duly appointed for petitioner by the trial court as
1237 Ala. 616; -188 So. 391.

'Post, p. 540.
'Powell v. Alabama, 287 U. S. 45; see Brown v. Mississippi, 297
U. S. 278, 286.

446

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

required both by Alabama law' and the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Since the Constitution nowhere specifies any period
which must intervene between the required appointment
of counsel and trial, the fact, standing alone, that a continuance has been denied, does not constitute a denial of
the constitutional right to assistance of counsel. In the
course of trial, after due appointment of competent counsel, many procedural questions necessarily arise which must
be decided by the trial judge in the light of facts then presented and conditions then existing. Disposition of a
request for continuance is of this nature and is made in
the discretion of the trial judge, the exercise of which
will ordinarily not be reviewed.'
But the denial of opportunity for appointed counsel to
confer, to consult with the accused and to prepare his
defense, could convert the appointment of counsel into a
sham and nothing more than a formal compliance with
the Constitution's requirement that an accused be given
the assistance of counsel.' The Constitution's guarantee
of assistance of counsel cannot be satisfied by mere formal
appointment.
In determining whether petitioner has been denied his
constitutional right to assistance of counsel, we must
remember that the Fourteenth Amendment does not
limit the power of the States to try and deal with crimes
committed within their borders," and was not intended to
bring to the test of a decision of this Court every ruling
'Code of Ala., 1923, § 5567.
'Franklin v. South Carolina, 218 U. S' 161, 168; Isaacs v. United
States, 150 U. S. 487, 489; see Minder v. Georgia, 183 U. S. 559, 561.
'Cf. Powell v. Alabama, aupra; Moore v. Dempsey, 261 U. S. 86,
91.
'Leeper v. Texas, 139 U. S. 462, 467-8; Ughbanks v. Armstrong,
208 U. S. 481, 487; Minder v. Georgia, aupra, 562.

AVERY v. ALABAMA.
444

Opinion of the Court.

made in the course of a state trial." Consistently with
the preservation of constitutional balance between state
and federal sovereignty, this Court must respect and is
reluctant to interfere with the states' determination of
local social policy.' But where denial of the constitutional right to assistance of counsel is asserted, its peculiar
sacredness " demands that we scrupulously review the
record.11
The record showsPetitioner was convicted on an indictment filed in the
Bibb County Circuit Court for murder alleged to have
occurred in 1932. He was found and arrested in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, shortly before March 21, 1938. On
that date, Monday, he was arraigned at a regular term of
the Court; two practicing attorneys of the local bar were
appointed to defend him; pleas of not guilty and not
guilty by reason of insanity were entered and the presiding judge set his trial for Wednesday, March 23. The
case was not reached Wednesday, but was called Thursday, the 24th, at which time his attorneys filed a motion
for continuance, on the ground that they had n6 t had
sufficient time and opportunity since their appointment
to investigate and prepare his defense. Affidavits of both
attorneys accompanied the motion.
Onb attorney's affidavit alleged that he had not had
time to investigate and prepare the defense because he
had been actually engaged in another trial from the time
of his appointment at 2 P. M., Monday, until 9 P. M.
'Cf. Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 104; Walker v. ,auvinet, 92 U. S. 90, 92.
*Green v. Frazier, 253 U.,S. 233, 239, 240, 242; Nebbia v. New
York, 291 U. S. 502, 537-8.
oCf. Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 370, 374, 375.
'Norris v. Alabama, 294 U. S. 587, 590; Pierre v. Louisiana, 306
U. S. 354, 358.

448

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

that evening; his presence had.been required in the court.
room on Tuesday, March 22, due to. employment in other
cases set, but not actually tried; he had been detained in
court Wednesday, March 23, waiting for petitioner's case
to be called; but after his appointment he had talked
with petitioner and "had serious doubts as to his sanity."
The affidavit by the other attorney stated that he too
had not had proper time and opportunity to investigate
petitioner's case because of his employment in other
pending cases, some of which were not disposed of until
Tuesday at 4:30 P. M.
No ruling on the motion for continuance appears in the
record, but on Thursday, the 24th, the trial proceeded
before a jury.
The foster parents of the person whose murder was
charged and another witness testified that on the day of
the killing, deceased, petitioner's wife from whom he was
then separated, had started to a nearby neighbor's house
to get a washtub when petitioner approached her with a
pistol in his right hand; words ensued; she turned and
ran and he shot her twice in the back; she fell and he
shot her three more times. Petitioner denied that these
witnesses were at the time in a position to see what
occurred. Admitting he had come some three miles from
his home to see his wife, he insisted that he had no pistol
but that when he spoke to her she had a bucket of water
and something else; they quarrelled; she then drew a pistol
from under her sweater and he "got to tussling with her
over the pistol, trying to take it away from her"; "shot
her, behind the shoulder, and through the back, tussling
with her," and then ran away. There is no suggestion in
the record that there were any witnesses to the killing
other than those who testified. The plea of insanity
apparently was withdrawn."
"The opinion of the Supreme Court of Alabama notes: "Counsel
first interposed a plea of not guilty, and another of not guilty by
reason of insanity. But upon the trial withdrew the latter plea."

AVERY v. ALABAMA.
444

449

Opinion of the Court.

The jury returned a verdict of guilty with the death
penalty. On the same day, the 24th, petitioner's counsel
moved for a new trial, setting up error in .the failure to
grant the requested continuance. This motion for new
trial was continued from time to time until June 30. In
the interim, a third attorney had been employed by petitioner's sister, and on June 30, petitioner's three lawyers
filed an amendment to the motion for new trial, specifically
setting out that the denial of a continuance had deprived
petitioner of the equal protection of the laws and due
process of law guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment,
by denying him "the right of counsel, with the accustomed
incidents of consultation and opportunity of preparation
for trial."
When the motion for new trial was heard the only
witnesses were petitioner's three attorneys. The third
attorney, employed by petitioner's sister, testified only
that he had been employed after the trial and verdict.
The two attorneys who had represented petitioner at the
trial substantially repeated what they had set out in
their original affidavits. In some detail they testified
that: they had conferred with petitioner after their appointment on Monday, March 21, but he gave them no
helpful information available as a defense or names of
any witnesses; between their appointment and the trial
they-made inquiries of people who lived in the community
in which the petitioner had lived prior to the crime with
which he was charged and in which the killing occurrcd
and none of those questioned, including a brother of petitioner, could offer information or assistance helpful to the
defense; they (the attorneys) had not prior to the trial
conferred with local doctors, of whom there were four, as
to petitioner's mental condition, had neither summoned
any medical experts or other witnesses nor asked for compulsory process guaranteed an accused by the Alabama
Constitution, Art. 1, § 6. And in response to inquiries

45)

-OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

made by the trial judge they stated that they had not
made any request for leave of absence from the court to
make further inquiry or investigation.
The motion for new trial was overruled.
Upon appeal, the Alabama Supreme Court gave full
consideration to the motion for continuance although no
ruling upon it was contained in the record and concluded
that the trial court had not abused its discretion in failing to continue the case."
Under the particular circumstances appearing in this
record, we do not think petitioner has been denied the
benefit of assistance of counsel guaranteed to him by the
Fourteenth Amendment. His appointed counsel, as the
Supreme Court of Alabama recognized, have performed
their "full duty intelligently and well." Not only did
they present petitioner's defense in the trial court, but
in conjunction with counsel later employed, they carried
an appeal to the State Supreme Court, and then
brought the matter here for our review. Their appointment and the representation rendered under it were not
mere formalities, but petitioner's counsel have--as was
their solemn duty-contested every step of the way leading to final disposition of the case. Petitioner has thus
been afforded' the assistance of zealous and earnest
counsel from arraignment to final argument in this
Court.
The offense for which petitioner was convicted occurred in a County largely rural. The County seat, where
14
court was held, has a population of less than s thousand.
-Indictments in the Bibb County Circuit Court, as in most
rural Counties throughout the Nation, are most frequently
returned and trials had during fixed terms or sessions of
Avery v. Alabama, supra.

,Vol. I, Fifteenth Census of the United States, 1930.

AVERY v. ALABAMA.
444

court.1 5

451

Opinion of the Court.

And these rural "Court Weeks" traditionally

bring grand and petit jurors, witnesses, interested per'The first Constitution of Alabama (1819), Art. V, § 7, provided
for the holding of a circuit court at least twice a year in each county,
and this provision continues in the present constitution, Const. of
Ala. (1901) Art. VI, § 144. While in recognition of modem social
needs (see Pound, Criminal Justice i' . America, 1930, pp. 152, 88,
150, 163, 164, 178, 183, 189, 190) circuit courts now, by statute, entertain causes at substantially all times (Code, 1923, § 6667) the
holding of formal court at specific terms or sessions is emphasized in
the requirement that each cause be called at least twice a year and
as often as is necessary to secure prompt trials. (Id., § 6668). Cf.
Ala. Civ. Code, 1907, c. 62, Art. I,, § 3234, specifically providing for
holding of circuit court in Bibb County on the first Monday before
the last Monday in February and August of each year. In general,
the practice in Alabama accords with that in all sections of the
country, e. g., see Compiled Laws of Colorado, 1921, § 5656, et seq.,
fixing specific terms of district courts, and § 5734-5766, fixing specific
dates of county court terms; Idaho Code Ann. (1932) 1-706, et 8eq.,
requiring at least two terms each year for the district court in each
county, to be fixed by court order; Burns Indiana Stat. Ann. (1933)
4-332, et seq., fixing specific terms of circuit courts, 4-407 et seq., and
4-607, fixing specific terms of superior courts; Rev. Stat. of Maine
(1930), c. 91, § 21, p. 1264, fixing specific trial terms for superior
courts; Mich. Stat. Ann. (Callaghan, 1938) § 27.546, et seq., providing for at least four terms of circuit court in each county organized for judicial purposes, at fixed times subject to chang4 by court
order (§ 27.547); Cahill's Consol. Laws of New York (1930), c. 31,
§ 84, providing that special and trial terms of supreme court be
.designated by the appellate division (see also § 150) and requiring
that at least one special term and two trial terms must be heid in
each county annually, § 148; Rev. Stat. of Utah (1933), 20-3-6,
20-3-9, requiring at least three terms during each year for the district court at each county seat, at times to be fixed by the respective
district judges; Public Laws of Vermont (1933), § 1374, p. 296, fixing stated terms for holding county courts. In Pennsylvania, courts
of quarter sessions, "of oyer and terminer and jail delivery shall be
holden four times, annually, in every county." 17 Purdon's Penn.
Stat., §§ 331, 351, 371.

452

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

sons and spectators from every part of the County into
the County seat for court."6 Unlike metropolitan centers,
people in these rural Counties know each other, and information concerning witnesses and events is more widespread and more generally known than in large cities.
Because this was so, petitioner's attorneys were able to
make the inquiries during Court Week at the County seat,
to which they testified, and that they apparently withdrew the plea of insanity after this inquiry is significant.
That the examination and preparation of the case, in
the time permitted by the trial judge, had been adequate
for counsel to exhaust its every angle is illuminated by
the absence of any indication, on the motion and hearing
for new trial, that they could have done more had additional time been granted.
"The system of circuit court terms continues today characteristics
traceable to the original English Assizes. While financial and administrative matters have been dropped from the business historically
committed to justices on Eyre and later to judges of assize from the
time of Henry II, our rural County Circuit courts still bear the earmarks of a "general review of the whole administration of the country." I Stephen's, "His. of the Cri. Law of Eng." (London), pp. 101,
106, 111. See, II Enc. of Soc. Sci., 283, 284, IV, 522. And the
practice of promptly trying at any term all the then accused finds
its historical roots in the commissions of gaol-delivery oyer and terminer of judges on Circuit or "Assize." I Stephen, supra, p. 105, et
8eq. These judges were empowered "to try every prisoner in the
gaol, committed for any offense whatsoever." They proceeded upon
prior indictments "a, well as upon indictments taken before themselves." Stubb's "Crown Circuit" (Dublin), 2, 5, 7, 9, 10. "And
therefore it hath never been a question, but that the justices of gaoldelivery may take an indictment, try, and give judgment the same
day." 2 Hale's "Pleas of the Crown" (1st Amer. ed.), 33. The
Sheriff was commanded to see that the prisoners "together with their
attachments, indictmenti, and all other muniments any ways concerning those prisoners . . . [be present and that] all they, who will
prosecute against those prisoners, be then and there to prosecute
against them, as shall be just." Stubbs, supra, 4, 5. See 1 Holdsworth's "History of English Law" (1927), pp. 49-51, 264 et seq.

LABOR BOARD- v. FALK CORP.
444

Syllabus.

Under the circumstances 'of this case we cannot say
that the trial judge, who concluded a fairly conducted
trial by carefully safeguarding petitioner's rights in a
clear and fair charge, deprived petitioner of his constitutional right to assistance of counsel. The Supreme Court
of Alabama having found that petitioner was afforded
that right, its judgment is
Affirmed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. FALK
CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE -CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 460.

Argued December 8, 11, 1939.-Decided January 2,
1940.

In consolidated proceedings against an employer under the National
Labor Relations Act, the Board, under § 10 (c), ordered the employer to cease and desist from interference with and domination
of a labor' union of its employees, to completely disestablish such
union, and to post notices of compliance with the Board's order;
and, under § 9 (c), directed an election of a representative for
collective bargaining on a ballot containing the names of two competing unions but omitting the company union. The Circuit Court
of Appeals granted enforcement, providing that the employees
should be free at any election to choose the company union to
represent them, and that the employer be permitted to add to the
'posted notices the qualification that the company union would be
disestablished and unrecognized until and unless it should be chosen
by the employees to represent them. Held."
1. The Circuit Court of Appeals was without power thus to
modify, and was without jurisdiction under § 9 (d) to review, the
Board's direction of an election. Pp. 458-459.
2. The Board's order that the company union be completely
disestablished and barred from consideration as an employee representative was supported by the evidence and findings, and was not
inconsistent with § 7 of the Act, which guarantees the right of
employees to choose their own representative. P. 461.

