ESTATE OF SANFORD v. COMM'R.

39

Syllabus.

ESTATE OF SANFORD v. COMMISSIONER
INTERNAL REVENUE.

OF

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 34.

Argued October 18, 19, 1939.-Decided November 6, 1939.

1. A gift in trust with reservation of power in the donor to alter the
disposition of the property in any way not beneficial to himself, is
incomplete and does not become subject to gift tax under the
Revenue Act of 1924, § 319, so long as the donor retains that
power. P. 41.
2. The federal gift tax is supplementary to the estate tax; the two
are in pari materia and must be construed together. P. 42.
An important purpose of the gift tax was to prevent, or compensate for, avoidance of death taxes. P. 44.
3. The gift tax statute does not contemplate two taxes upon gifts
not made in contemplation of death, one upon the gift when a
trust is created or when the power of revocation, if any, is relinquished, and another on the transfer of the same property at death
because the gift previously made was incomplete. P. 45.
4. Transfers in trust, not taxable as gifts because the donor has
reserved power to change the beneficiaries, become subject to death
taxes when he dies. P. 46.
5. Art. I of Treas. Reg. 67, under the Revenue Act of 1924, was not
directed at relinquishments of reserved power to select new beneficiaries other than the donor and did not purport to govern cases
of reserved power different from or in addition to the power to
revest the title in the donor. P. 48.
At most the regulation is ambiguous and not persuasive in
determining the true construction of the statute.
6. Art. III, Reg. 79, amendment of 1936 under the Revenue Act of
1932, which declares that a gift is complete and subject to tax
when "the donor has so parted with dominion and control as to
leave in him no power to cause the beneficial title to be revested
-in himself," is by its terms applicable only to gifts made aftex
June 6, 1932, and is of significance here only so far as it is declaratory of the correct construction of the 1924 Act. P. 49.
A stipulation purporting to reveal the administrative practice in
applying the gift tax law, held too vague and indefinite to afford
basis for a judicial construction of the statute. P. 49.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the. Court.

308 U. S.

8. A stipulation as to questions of law can not bind the Court. P. 51.
9. Administrative practice may be persuasive in determining the construction of a statute of doubtful meaning where the practice does
not conflict with other provisions of the statute and is not so inconsistent with decisions of the courts as to produce inconsistency
and confusion in the administration of the law. P. 52.

But the Court does not give effect to an unpublished administrative construction on which taxpayers have not relied, which conflicts with its own decisions and with a later administrative practice
conforming to lower court rulings.
10. The reEnactment of the gift tax statute of 1924 by the Revenue
Act of 1932 was not a legislative approval of an administrative
practice which had not been disclosed by Treasury Regulation,
ruling or decision, and which does not appear to have been established before the adoption of the later Act. P. 53.
103 F. 2d 81, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 307 U. S. 618, to review a judgment which
sustained a decision of the Board of Tax Appeals affirming
a deficiency assessment based on the gift tax provision of
the Revenue Act of 1924.
Mr. Montgomery B. Angell, with whom Messrs. John
W. Davis, Otis T. Bradley, William A. Carr, and Marvin
Lyons were on the brief, for petitioner.
Miss Helen R. Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key,. J. Louis Monarch, and Richard H. Demuth
were on the brief, for respondent.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Beverley R. Robinson, E. N.
Perkins, and Weston Vernon, Jr. filed a brief, as amici
curiae, urging reversal.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
This and its, companion case, Rasquin v. Humphreys,
post, p. 54, present the single question of statutory construction whether in the case of an inter vivos transfer of
property in trust, by a donor reserving to himself the

ESTATE OF SANFORD v. COMM'R.
39

Opinion of the Court.

power to designate new beneficiaries other than himself,
the gift becomes complete and subject to the gift tax
imposed by the federal revenue laws at the time of the
relinquishment of the power. Corelative questions, important only if a negative answer is given to the first one,
are whether the gift becomes complete and taxable when
the trust is created or, in the case where the donor has
reserved a power of revocation for his own benefit and
has relinquished it before relinquishing the power to
change beneficiaries, whether the gift first becomes complete and taxable at the time of relinquishing the power
of revocation.
In 1913, before the enactment of the first gift tax
statute of 1924, decedent created a trust of personal property for the benefit of named beneficiaries, reserving to
himself the power to terminate the trust in whole or in
part, or to modify it. In 1919 he surrendered the power
to revoke the trust by an appropriate writing in which
he reserved "the right to modify any or all of the trusts"
but provided that this right "shall in no way be deemed
or construed to include any right or privilege" in the
donor "to withdraw principal or income from any trust."
In August, 1924, after the effective date of the gift tax
statute, decedent renounced his remaining power to
modify the trust. After his death in 1928, the Commissioner following the decision in Hesslein v. Hoey, 91 F.
2d 954, in 1937, ruled that the gift became complete and
taxable only upon decedent's final renunciation of his'
power to modify the trusts and gave notice of a tax
deficiency accordingly.
The order of the Board of Tax Appeals sustaining the
tax was affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit, 103 F. 2d 81, which followed the decision of the
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in.Hesslein v.
Hoey, supra, in which we had denied certiorari, 302 U. S.
756. In the Hesslein case, as in the Humphreys case now

42

OCTOBER TERM,, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U.S.

before us, a gift in trust with the reservation of a power
in the donor to alter the disposition of the property in
any way not beneficial to himself, was held to be incomplete and not subject to the gift tax under the 1932 Act
so long as the donor retained that power.
We granted certiorari in this case, 307 U. S. 618, and
in the Humphreys case, id. 619, upon the representation
of the Government that it has taken inconsistent positions
with respect to the question involved in the two cases and
that because of this fact and of the doubt of the correctness of the decision in the Hesslein case decision of the
question by this Court is desirable in order to remove the
resultant confusion in the administration of the revenue
laws.
It has continued to take these inconsistent positions
here, stating that it is unable to determine which construction of the statute will be most advantageous to the
Government in point of revenue collected. It argues in
this case that the gift did not become complete and taxable until surrender by the donor of his reserved power
to designate new beneficiaries of the trusts. In the Humphreys case it argues that the gift upon trust with power
reserved to the donor, not afterward relinquished, to
change the beneficiaries was complete and taxable when
the trust was created. It concedes by its 1krief that "a
decision favorable to the government in either case will
necessarily preclude a favorable decision in the other."
In ascertaining the correct construction of the statutes
taxing gifts, it is necessary to read them in the light of
the closely related provisions of the revenue laws tax;ing
transfers at death, as they have been interpreted by our
decisions. Section 319 et seq. of the Revenue Act of 1924,
43 Stat. 253, reenacted as § 501 et seq. of the 1932 Act, 47
Stat. 169, imposed a graduated tax upon gifts. It supplemented that'laid on transfers at death, which had long
been a feature of the revenue laws. When the gift tax

ESTATE OF SANFORD v. COMM'R.
39

Opinion of the Court.

was enacted Congress was aware that the essence of a
transfer is the passage of control over the economic benefits of property rather than any technical changes in its
title. See Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280, 287.
Following the enactment. of the gift tax statute this Court
in Reinecke v. Northern Trust Co., 278 U. S. 339 (1929)
held that the relinquishment at death of a power of revocation of a trust for the benefit of its donor was a taxable
transfer, cf. Saltonstall v. Saltonstall,276 U. S. 260; Chase
National Bank v. United States, 278 U. S. 327; and similarly in Porterv. Commissioner,288 U. S. 436 (1933), that
t1ie relinquishment by a donor at death of a reserved
power to modify the trust except in his own favor is likewise a transfer of the property which could constitutionally be taxed under the provisions of §302 (d) of the
1926 Revenue Act (reinacting in substance 302 (d) of the
.1924 Act) although enacted after the creation of the trust.
Cf. Bullen v. Wisconsin, 240 U. S. 625; Curry v. McCanless, 307 U. S. 357; Graves v. Elliott, 307 U. S. 383. Since
it was the relinquishment of the power which was taxed
as a transfer and not the transfer in trust, the statute was
not retroactively applied. Cf. Nichols v. Coolidge, 274
U. S. 531; Helvering v. Helmholz, 296 U. S. 93, 98.
The rationale of decision in both cases is that "taxation
is not so much concerned with the refinements of title as
it is with the actual command over the property taxed"
(see Corliss v. Bowers, 281 U. S. 376, 378; Saltonstall v.
Saltonstall, supra, 261; Burnet v. Guggenheim, supra,
287) and that a retention of control over the disposition
of the trust property, whether for the benefit of the donor
or others, renders the gift incomplete until the power is
relinquished whether in life or at death. The rule was
thus established, and has ever since been consistently.
followed by the Court, that a transfer of property upon
trust, with power reserved to the donor either to revoke it
and recapture the trust property or to modify its terms

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

so as to designate new beneficiaries other than himself is
incomplete, and becomes complete so as to subject the
transfer to death taxes only on relinquishment of the
power at death..
There is nothing in -the- language of the statute, and
our attention has not been directed to anything in its
legislative history to suggest that Congress had any purpose to tax gifts before the donor had fully parted with
his interest in the property given, or that the test of the
completeness of the taxed gift was to be any different
from that to be applied in determining'whether the donor
has retained an interest such that it becomes subject tW
the estate tax upon its extinguishment at death. The
gift tax -,as supplementary to the estate tax. The two
are in pari materia and must be construed together.
Burnet v. Guggenheim, sipra,286. An important, if not
th 'main, purpose of the-gift tax was to prevent or compensate for avoidance of death taxes by taxing the gifts
of property inter vivos which, but for the gifts,' would be
subject in its original or converted form to the tax laid
upon transfers at death."
* 'The gift tax provisions of the Revenue Act of'1924 were added by
amendments to the revenue bill introduced on the floor of the House
and the Senate. Cong. Rec., Vol. 65, Part 3, pp. 3118-3119; Part 4,

pp. 3170, 3171; Part 8, p. 8094. The sponsor of. the amendment in
both houses urged the adoption of the bill as a "corollary" or as "supplemental" to the estate tax. Cong: Ree., Vol. 65, Part 3, pp. 31193120, 3122; Part. 4, p. 3172; Cong. Rec., Vol. 65, Part 8, pp. 8095,
8096.
, The gift tax of 1924 was repealed when Congress, concurrently with
the enactment of § 302 (c). of the Revenue Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 70,
125, 126, establishing a conclusive presumption that gifts within two
years of death.were made in contemplation of death and therefore subject to the estate tax. A' gift tax was refnacted by. § 501 of the Reve'nue Act of 1932, 47 Stat. 169, shortly after it was decided in Heiner v.
Donnan, 285 U. S. 312, that the legislative enactment of such a presumption violated the Fifth. Amendment.

ESTATE OF SANFORD v. COMM'R.
39

Opinion of the Court.

Section 322 of the 1924 Act provides that when a tax
has been imposed by § 319 upon a gift, the value of which
is required by any provision of the statute taxing the
estate to be included in the gross estate, the gift tax is
to be creditedon the estate tax. The two taxes are thus
not always mutually exclusive as in the. case of gifts
made in contemplation of death which are complete and
taxable when made, and are also required to be included
in the gross estate for purposes of the death tax. But
§ 322 is without application unless there is a gift inter
vivos which is taxable independently of any requirement
that it shall be included in the gross estate. Property
transferred in -trust subject to a power of control over
its disposition reserved to the donor is likewise required
by § 302(d) to be included in the gross estate. But it
does not follow that the transfer in trust is also taxable
as a gift. The point was decided in the Guggenheim
case where it was held that a gift upon trust, with power
in'the donor to revoke it is not taxable as a gift because
the transfer is incomplete, and that the transfer whether
inter vivos or at death becomes complete and taxable
only when the power of control is relinquished. We
think, as was pointed out in the Guggenh im case, supra,
285, that the gift tax statute does not c+ template two
taxes upon gifts not made in contemplaition of death,
one upon the gift when a trust is created or when the
power of revocation, if any, is relinquished, and another
on the transfer of the same property at death because
the gift previously made was incomplete.
Section 501 (c) of the 1932 Act added a new provision that transfers
in trust, with power of revocation in the donor, should be taxed on
relinquishment of the power. This was repealed by § 511 of the Act
of 1934, 48 Stat. 680, because Burnet v. Guggenheim, 288 U. S. 280,
had declared that such was the law without specific legislation. H. R.
No. 704, 73rd Cong., 2d Sess., p. 40; Sen. Rep. No. 558, 73rd Cong.,
2d Sess., p. 50,

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

It is plain that the contention of the taxpayer in this
case that the gift becomes complete and taxable upon
the relinquishment of the donor's power to revoke the
trust cannot be sustained unless we are to hold, contrary
to the policy of the statute and the reasoning in the Guggenheim case, that a second tax will be incurred upon
the donor's relinquishment at death of his power to select
new beneficiaries, or unless as an alternative we are to
abandon our ruling in the Porter case. The Government
does not suggest, even in its argument in the Humphreys
case, that' we should depart from our earlier rulings, and
we think it clear that we should not do so both because
we are satisfied with the reasoning upon which they rest
and because departure from either would produce inconsistencies in the law as serious and confusing as the inconsistencies-in administrative practice from which the
Government now seeks relief.
There are other persuasive reasons why the taxpayer's
contention canhot be sustained. By §§ 315(b), 324, and
more specifically by § 510 of the 1932 Act, the donee of
any gift is made personally liable for the tax to the extent
of the value of the gift if the tax is not paid by the donor.
It can hardly be supposed that Congress intended to impose personal liability upon the donee of a gift of property, so incomplete that he might be deprived of it by
the donor the day after he had paid the tax. Further,
§ 321(b) (1) exempts from the tax, gifts to religious,
charitable, and educational corporations and the like. A
gift would seem not to be complete, for purposes of the
taxj, where the donor has reserved the power to determine
whether the donees ultimately entitled to receive and
enjoy ,.the property are of such a class as to exempt the
gift frQmn taxation. Apart from other considerations we
should hesitate to accept as correct a construction under
which it could plausibly be maintained that a gift in trust

ESTATE OF SANFORD v. COMM'R.
39

Opinion of the Court.

for the benefit of charitable corporations is then complete
so that the taxing statute becomes ,operative and Phe
gift escapes the tax even though' the donor should later
change the beneficiaries to the non-exempt class thrpugh
exercise of a power to modify the trust in any way not
beneficial to himself.
The argument of petitioner that the construction which
the Government supports here, but assails in the Humphreys case, affords a ready means of evasion of the gift
tax is not impressive. It is true, of course, that under
it gift taxes will not be imposed on transactions which
fall short of being completed gifts. But if for that reason
they are not taxed as gifts they remain subject to death
taxes assessed at higher rates, and the Government gets
its due, which was precisely the end sought by the enactment of the gift tax.
Nor do we think that the provisions of § 219 (g) of
the 1924 Act have any persuasive influence on the construction of the gift tax provisions with which we are now
concerned. One purpose of the gift tax was to prevent
or compensate for the loss of surtax upon income where
large estates are split up by gifts to numerous donees.2
Congress was aware that donors in trust might distribute
income among several beneficiaries, although the gift remains so incomplete as not to be subject to the tax. It
dealt with that contingency in § 219 (g) which taxes to
the settlor the income of a trust paid to beneficiaries
where he reserved to himself an unexercised power to "revest in himself title" to the trust property producing the
income. Whether this section is to be read as relieving the
donor of the income tax where the power reseifved is to
modify the trust, except for his own benefit, wedo not
now decide. If Congress, in enacting it, undertook to
'See references to Congressional Record, Footnote 1.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

define the extent to which a reserved power of control
over the disposition of the income is equivalent to ownership of it so as to mark the line between those cases
on the one hand Where the income is to be taxed to the
donor and those on the other where, by related sections,
the income is to be taxed to. the trust or its beneficiaries,
we do not perceive that the seition presents any question
so comparable to that now before us as to affect our
decision. We are concerned here with a question to which
Congress has given no answer in the words of the statute,
and it must be decided in conformity to the course of
judicial decision applicable to a unified scheme of taxation of gifts whether made inter vivos or at death. If
Congress, for the purpose of taxing income, has defined
precisely the amount of control over the income which
it deems equivalent to ownership of it, that definition is
controlling on the courts even though without it they
might reach a different conclusion, and even though retention of a lesser degree of control be deemed to render
a transfer incomplete for the purpose of laying gift and
death taxes.
The question remains whether the construction of the
statute which we conclude is to be derived from its language and history, should be modified because of the
force of treasury regulations or administrative practice.
Article I of Regulations 67, under the 1924 Act (adopted
without any change of present significance in Article III,
Regulations 79, under the 1932 Act) provides that the
creation of a trust where the grantor retains the power
to revest in himself title to the corpus of the trust does'
not constitute a gift subject. to the tax and declares that
"where the power retained by the grantor to revest in
.himself title to the corpus is not exercised, a taxable
transfer will be treated as taking place in the year in
which such power is terminated." . Petitioner urges that

ESTATE OF SANFORD v. COMM'R.
39

49

Opinion of the Court.

the regulation is in terms applicable to the trust presently involved because it was subject to a power of revocation in favor of the donor before the enactment of the
gift tax which was later relinquished. But we think, as
the court below thought, that the regulation was not
directed to the case of the relinquishment of a reserved
power to select new beneficiaries other than the donor
and did not purport to lay down any rule for cases where
there was a reserved power different from or in addition
to the power to revest the title in the donor. At most
the regulation is ambiguous and without persuasive -force
in determining the true construction of the statute.
Burnet v. Chicago Portrait Co., 285 U. S. 1, 16, 20. The
amended regulation of 1936 finder the 1932 Act, Art. III,
Reg. 79, removed the ambiguity by declaring that the
gift is complete and subject to the tax when "the donor
has so parted with dominion and control as to leave in
him no power to cause the beneficial title to be revested
in himself." But this regulation is by its terms applicable only to gifts made after June 6, 1932, and is of
significance here only so far as it is declaratory of the
correct construytion of the 1924 Act.
Petitioner also insists that the construction of the
statute for which he contends is sustained by the administrative practice. That practice is not disclosed by any
published Treasury rulings or decisions and our only
source of information on the subject is a stipulation
appearing in the record. It states that in the administration of the gift tax under the 1924 and 1932 Acts and
until the decision in the Hesslein case it was "the uniform
practice of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue in
adjusting cases of the, character of that here involved to
treat 'the' taxable transfer subject to gift tax as occurringwhen the transferor relinquished all power to revest in
himself title to the property constituting the subject of

OCTOBER TERM. 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the transfer"; and that three hundred cases "of such
character" have been closed or adjusted in conformity to
this practice.
This definition of the practice appears as a part of a
stipulation of facts setting forth in some 126 printed
pages the original trust deed of December 24, 1913, and
thirteen modifications of it between that date and the
final relinquishment of the power of modification on
August 20, 1924. They reveal a varied and extensive
power of control by the donor over the disposition of the
trust property which survived the relinquishment, in
1919, of the power of revocation for his own benefit, and
with which he finally parted after enactment of the gift
tax. The description of the practice as that resorted to
in adjusting "cases of the character of that here involved," presupposes some knowledge on our part of
what the signers of the stipulation regarded as the
salient features of the present case which, although not
specified by the stipulation, were necessarily embraced
in the practice. Administrative practice, to be accepted
as guiding or controlling judicial decision, must at least
be defined with sufficient certainty to define the scope
of the decision. If relinquishment of the power of revocation mentioned by the stipulation was of controlling
significance in defining the practice, that circumstance
was not present in the Hesslein case or in the Humphreys case. Whether in any of the three hundred cases
mentioned in the stipulation the relinquishment of the
power of revocation was followed by the relinquishment
inter vivos of a power of changing the beneficiaries like
that in this case, does not appear.
Such a stipulated definition of the practice is too
vague and indefinite to afford a proper basis for a judicial decision which undertakes to state the construction
of the statute in terms of the practice. Moreover, if we
regard the stipulation as agreeing merely that the legal

ESTATE OF SANFORD v. COMM'R.
39

Opinion of the Court.

questions involved in the present case have uniformly
been settled administratively in favor of the contention
now made by the petitioner, it involves conclusions of
law of the stipulators, both with respect to the legal
issues in the present case and those resolved by the practice. We -re not bound to accept, as controlling, stipulations as to questions of law. Swift & Co. v. Hocking
Valley Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 281, 289.
Without attempting to say what the administrative
practice has actually been we may, for present purposes,
make the assumption most favorable to the taxpayer in
this case that the practice was as stated by the Government in its brief in the Humphreys case, viz., that until
the decision in the Hesslein case "the Bureau consistently
took the position that the gift tax applied to a transfer
in trust where the grantor reserved the right to modify
the trust but no right to revest title in himself."
But the record here shows that no such practice was
recognized as controlling in 1935 when the present case
first received the attention of the Bureau. On February
21, 1935, the Assistant General Counsel gave an opinion
reviewing at length the facts of the present case and the
applicable principles of law, and concluded on the reasoning and authority of the Guggenheim and Portercases
that the gift was not complete and taxable until the relinquishment in August, 1924 of the power to modify, the
trust by the selection of new beneficiaries. In April, 1935,
the matter was reconsidered and a new opinion was given
which was finally adopted by the Assistant Secretary who
had intervened in the case. This opinion reversed the
earlier one on the authority of the Guggenheim case. It
was at pains to point out that in that case the Court had
held that the relinquishment of the power of revocation
was a taxable gift but it made no mention of the fact
that there, unlike the present case, there was no power of
modification .which survived the relinquishment of the

52

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

power of revocation, which was crucial in the Porter case.
Neither opinion. rested upon or made any mention of any
practice affecting cases where such a power of modification is reserved. After the decision in the Hesslein case
the ruling of the Bureau in this case was again reversed
and notice of deficiency sent to the taxpayer.
From this record it is apparent that there was no established administrative practice before the iopinion of April,
1935, and if the practice was adopted then it was because of a mistaken departmental ruling of law based on
an obvious misinterpretation of the decisions in the Porter and Guggenheim cases.
Administrative practice may be of persuasive weight in
determining the construction of a statute of doubtful
meaning where the practice does not conflict with other
provisions of~the Statute and is not so inconsistent with
applicable decisions of the courts as to produce inconsistency and confusion in the administration of the law.
Such a choice, in practice, of one of two possible constructions of a statute by those who are expert in the field
and specially informed as to administrative needs and
convenience, tends to the wise interpretation and just
administration of the laws. This is the more so when
reliance has been placed on the practice by those affected
by it.
But courts are not bound to accept the admninistrative
construction of a statute regardless of consequences, even
when disclosed in the form of rulings. See Helvering v.
New York Trust Co., 292 U. S.455, 468. Here the practice has not been revealed by any published rulings or
action of the Department on which taxpayers could have
relied. The taxpayers in the present cases are contendIn the petition for certiorari filed in November, 1937, in Hesslein v.
Hoey (No. 556), the Government asserted that the 300 cases referred
to in the stipulation in this case had been decided so recently that the
time for filing claims for refunds had not expired.

ESTATE OF SANFORD v. COMM'R.
39

Opinion of the Court.

ing for different rulings. In Harriet Rosenau, 37 B. T. A.
468 (1938), as in the Humphreys case, the taxpayer contended that the date when the power to change the
beneficiary is renounced is controlling. The petitioner
here, who contends that the date of relinquishment of
the power of revocation is controlling, rather than the
date of surrender of power of modification, set up his
trust and relinquished the power of revocation before the
gift tax was enacted. The reenactment of the gift tax
statute by the 1932 Act can not be said to be a legislative
approval of the practice which had not been disclosed by
Treasury regulation, ruling or decision, and which does
not appear to have been established before the adoption
of the 1932 Act. Cf. McCaughn v. Hershey Chocolate
Co., 283 U. S.488, 492; Massachusetts Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. United States, 288 U. S. 269, 273; Helvering v.
New York Trust Co., 292 U. S.455, 468.
The very purpose sought to be accomplished by judicial
acceptance of an administrative practice would be defeated if we were to regard the present practice as controlling. If a practice is to be accepted because of the
superior knowledge of administrative officers of the
administrative needs and convenience, see Brewster v.
Gage, 280 U. S.327, 336, there is no such reason for its
acceptance here. The Government by taking no position
confesses that it is unable to say how administrative need
and convenience will best be served. If, as we have held,
we may reject an established administrative practice
when it conflicts with an'earlier one and is not supported
by valid reasons, see Burnet v. Chicago PortraitCo., 285
U. S. 1, 16, we should be equally free to reject the practice when it conflicts with our own decisions. 'A change
of practice to conform to judicial decision, such as has
occurred since the decision in the Hesslein case, or to meet
administrative exigencies, will be accepted as controlling
when consistent with our decisions. Morrissey v. Com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

308 U. S.

missioner, 296 U. S. 344, 354. Here we have an added,
and we think conclusive reasoft for rejecting the earlier
practice and accepting the later. ,The earlier' because
in sharp conflict with our own decisions, as we have
already indicated, cannot be continued without the perpetuation of inconsistency and confusion comparable to
that of which the Government asks to be relieved by our
decision.
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BUTLER

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
RASQUIN, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE,
v. HUMPHREYS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 37. Argued October 19, 1939.-Decided November 6, 1939.
1. A gift in trust reserving power in the donor to change the beneficiaries other than himself is incomplete and not subject to be
taxed as a gift under the Revenue Act of 1932. Sanford v. Commissioner, ante, p. 39, followed. P. 55.
2. Article III of Treasury Regulation 79 (1933 ed.), under the Revenue Act of 1932, affords no'basis for modification of the above
construction of the statute; and the amendment of the regulation in
1936 is so plainly in conflict with the statute as to preclude its
application retroactively. Id.
101 F. 2d 1012, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 307 U. S. 619, to review the affirmance of
a judgment recovered from the Collector in an action to
recover money collected as a gift tax.

Miss Helen R. Carloss, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and Messrs.
Sewall Key, J. Louis Monarch, and Richard H. Demuth
were on the brief, for petitioner.

