KALB v. FEUERSTEIN.
422

Syllabus.

enforcing claims arising out of the failure to comply with
the Commission's lawful orders.
When it appeared in the course of the litigation that
an administrative problem, committed to the Commission, was involved, the court should have stayed its hand
pending the Commission's determination of the lawfulness and reasonableness of the practices under the terms
of the Act. There should not be a dismissal, but, as in
Mitchell Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., supra, the
cause should be held pending the conclusion of an appropriate administrative proceeding. Thus any defenses
the petitioner may have will be saved to it.'
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
reversed and the cause is remanded to the District Court
for further proceedings in conformity to this opinion.
Reversed.
KALB

ET UX. v.

FEUERSTEIN

ET UX.*

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF WISCONSIN.
No. 120.

Argued December 15, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. The effect of the filing of a petition for a composition or extension
of time under § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act upon a state court's
jurisdiction of a pending proceeding to foreclose a mortgage on the
petitioner's property, is a federal question. P. 438.
2. The filing of a petition by a farmer under § 75 of the Bankruptcy
Act for a composition or extension of time .to pay his debts,. operates
ipso facto as a stay on the power of a state court, in a pending
proceeding to foreclose a mortgage on his property, to proceed with
Compare Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 230 U. S.
304, 314, where no rights could be saved by retaining the cause; and
St. Louis, B. & M. Ry. Co. v. Brownsville District, 304 U. S. 295, 301,
where the District Court was asked to make an order which the
Commissioni alone had authority to make.
* Together with No. 121, Kalb v. Luce et al., also on appeal from
the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.

434

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Appellees.

308 U. S.

foreclosure, to confirm the foreclosure sale, and to dispossess under
it. Pp. 438, 440.
3. The action of the state court in this case in proceeding contrariwise, without the consent of the bankruptcy court, was not merely
erroneous, but was in excess of its authority, void, and subject to
collateral attack. And whether the jurisdiction of the state court
to proceed thus was contested in the foreclosure proceeding, or
could have been contested, is immaterial. Pp. 438, 440.
4. The language and the broad policy of the federal Act, as well as
its legislative history, support this construction; and, as so construed, the Act was within the plenary power of Congress in respect
of the subject of bankruptcy. Pp. 439-441.
5. The liability in tort of the state court judge, the sheriff who executed the writ of assistance, and the mortgagees, for such action
as was taken against the farmer-debtor without the authority of
law, is to be determined according to the state law. P. 443.
231 Wis. 185, 186; 285 N. W. 431, reversed.
APPEALS from affirmances of judgments dismissing the
complaints in two cases. For earlier opinions of the state
supreme court, see 228 Wis. 519, 525; 279 N. W. 685, 687;
also 280 N. W. 725, 726.

Messrs. William Lemke and Elmer McClain, with
whom Mr. James J. McManamy was on the brief, for
appellants.
Messrs. J. Arthur Moran and Arthur T. Thorson for
appellees.
Independent and adequate non-federal grounds support
the state court decision.
The judge, who acted in his judicial capacity; the
sheriff, who acted in his official capacity; and litigants,
who merely sought legal rights, are immune from liability
for damages. Citing many cases.
The county court orders are voidable and not void, and
not subject to collateral attack. Bradley v. Fisher, 13
Wall. 335; Dowell v. Applegate, 152 U. S. 327; Freeman
on Judgments, pp. 718-719. Wisconsin decisions are con-

KALB v. FEUERSTEIN.
.433

435

Opinion of the Court.

trolling and support this contention. Distinguishing
Wright v. Union Central Life Ins. Co., 304 U. S. 502.
The filing of the amended petition under § 75 did not
effect an automatic stay of the foreclosure proceedings
pending in the county court. That court had jurisdiction
to confirm the sale previously made.
The Bankruptcy Act subjects to exclusive federal jurisdiction only the farmer and property not in control of
some other court. In re Price, 16 F. Supp. 836. Distinguishing Wright v. Vinton Branch, 300 U. S. 440; Wright
v. Union Central Life Ins. Co., supra; Adair v. Bank of
America Assn., 303 U. S. 350. See Ex parte Baldwin,
291 U. S. 610; Straton v. New, 283 U. S. 318.
The cases cited by the appellants in support of their
contention that § 75 is self-executing do not apply. Distinguishing May v. Henderson, 268 U. S. 111; Isaacs v.
Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., 282 U. S. 734; Gross v. Irving
Trust Co., 289 U. S. 342; Acme Harvester Co. v. Beekman, 222 U. S. 300.
The full faith and credit clause requires recognition of
the sale and proceedings in the state court.
MR.

JusncE BLACK delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Appellants are farmers. Two of appellees, as mortgagees, began foreclosure on appellants' farm 1 March 7,
1933, in the Walworth (Wisconsin) County Court; judgment of foreclosure was entered April 21, 1933; July 20,
1935, the sheriff sold the property under the judgment;
September 16, 1935, while appellant Ernest Newton Kalb
had duly pending2 in the bankruptcy court a petition for
'In both No. 120 and No. 121, the complaints alleged that appellant Kalb and his wife executed the mortgage. In No. 120 both
Kalb and his wife were alleged to be owners of the farm; while in
No. 121, appellant Kalb was alleged to be the owner.
'October 2, 1934, the petition was filed and approved. June 27,
1935, the petition was dismissed, but September 6, 1935, it was re-

436

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

composition and extension of time to pay his debts under
§ 75 of the Bankruptcy Act (Frazier-Lemke Act),' the
Walworth County Court granted the mortgagees' motion
for confirmation of the sheriff's sale; no stay of the foreclosure or'of the subsequent action to enforce it was ever
sought or granted in the state or bankruptcy court; December 16, 1935, the mortgagees, who had purchased at
the sheriff's sale, obtained a writ of assistance from the
state court; and March 12, 1936, the sheriff executed the
writ by ejecting appellants and their family from the
mortgaged farm.
The questions in both No. 120 and No. 121 are whether
the Wisconsin County Court had jurisdiction, while the
petition under the Frazier-Lemke Act was pending in
the bankruptcy court, to confirm the sheriff's sale and
order appellants dispossessed, and, if it did not, whether
its action in the absence of direct appeal is subject to
collateral attack.
No. 120. After ejection from their farm, appellants
brought an action in equity in the Circuit Court of Walworth County, Wisconsin, against the mortgagees who had
purchased at the sheriff's sale; for restoration of possession, for cancellation of the sheriff's deed and for removal of the mortgagees from the farm. Demurrer was
sustained for failure to state a cause of action and the
complaint was dismissed. The Supreme Court of Wisconsiu affirmed.'
No. 121 is a suit at law in the'state court by appellant
Ernest- Newton Kalb against the mortgagees, the sheriff
and the County Court judge who confirmed the fore-closure sale and issued the writ of assistance. Damages
are sought for conspiracy to-:deprive appellant of possesinstated and the order of dismissal was vacated pursuant t6'the
second Frazier-Lemke Act, 11 U. S. C. 203, § 5.
all U. S. C. 203.
'231 Wis. 185; 285 N. W. 431.

KALB v. FEUTERSTEIN.
433

Opinion of the Court.

sion, for assault and battery, and for false imprisonment.
As in No. 120, demurrer was sustained, and the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin affirmed.5
In its first opinion the Supreme Court of Wisconsin
said: "It is the contention of the plaintiff [mortgagor]
that this statute is self executing,-that is, that' it requires no application to the state or federal court in
which foreclosure proceedings are pending for a stay; in
other words, that it provides for a statutory and not for
a judicial stay. Plaintiff's claims under the Bankruptcy
Act present a question which clearly arises under the
laws of the United States and therefore present a federal
question upon which determination of the federal courts
is controlling." Addressing itself solely to this federal
question of construing the Frazier-Lemke Act, the Wisconsin court decided that the federal Act did not itself
as an automatic statutory stay terminate the state court's
jurisdiction' when the farmer filed his petition in the
bankruptcy court. Since there had been no judicial stay,

it held that the confirmation of sale and writ of assistance
were not in violation of the Act.
Appellees insist, however, that the Wisconsin court on
rehearing rested its judgment on an adequate non-federal
ground. If'that were the fact, we would not, under accepted practice, reach the state court's construction of
the federal statute.' The statement on rehearing relied
'Demurrer to one count against the sheriff for assault and battery
was .o4rrued, but the Supreme Court of Wisconsin reversed as to
this cotint, The opinion of the court upholding the demurrer appears in Kalb v. Luce, 228 Wis. 519; 279 N. W. 685; 280 N. W. 725.,
Appeal to this Court was dismissed because no final judgment had
been entered. 305 U. S. 566. Upon remand the State Circuit Court

dismissed, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin affirmed, "for the reasons

. . .

stated" in its opinion in Kalb v. Luce, supra, 231 Wis. 186;

285 N. W. 431, and the appeals here are from the judgments of

dismissal.
.Hbneyman v. Hanan, 300 U. S.14, 18; Lynch v. New York exrel.
Pierson,'293 U. S. 52, 54; Enterprise Irrigation District v.-Farmers

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

on as constituting the non-federal ground was: "We need
not consider nor discuss the question whether the congress has power to divest the jurisdiction of a state court
which has once attached. That question is not presented
by this record. It would seem from a consideration of
sec. 75 as amended that the filing of the petition automatically operated to extend the period of redemption.
It is possible that that state of facts if made to appear
would make the order of the trial court erroneous but the
order would be within the power of the court to make.
No appeal having been taken, no showing having been
made in the state court, an order of sale having been
confirmed and the purchaser put in possession, the plaintiff is in no position to claim that the order of the circuit
court is void."
But if appellants are right in their contention that the
federal Act of itself, from the moment the petition was
filed and so long as it remained pending, operated, in the
absence of the bankruptcy court's consent, to oust the
jurisdiction of the state court so as to stay its power to
proceed with foreclosure, to confirm a sale, and to issue
an order ejecting appellants from their farm, the action
of the Walworth County Court was not merely erroneous
but was beyond its power, void, and subject to collateral
attack. And the determination whether the Act did so
operate is a construction of that Act and a federal
question.
It is generally true that a judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction bears. a presumption of regularity and
is not thereafter subject to collateral attack.' But Congress, because its power over the subject of bankruptcy
Mutual Canal Co., 243 U. S. 157, 164; Hammond v. Johnston, 142
U. S. 73.

' Chicot County Drainage District v. Bazter State Bank, ante,
p. 371; Stoll v. Gottlieb, 305 U. S. 165, 171, 172; Dowell v. Applegate,
152 U. S. 327, 340.

KALB v. FEUERSTEIN.
433

Opinion of the Court.

is plenary, may by specific bankruptcy legislation create
an exception to that principle and render judicial acts
taken with respect to the person or property of a debtor
whom the bankruptcy law protects nullities and vulnerable collaterally.' Although the Walworth County Court
had general jurisdiction over foreclosures under the law
of Wisconsin, 9 a peremptory prohibition by Congress in
the exercise of its supreme power over bankruptcy that
no state court have jurisdiction over a petitioning farmer-debtor or his property, would have rendered the confirmation of sale and its enforcement beyond the County
Court's power and nullities subject to collateral attack."
The States cannot, in the exercise of control over local
laws and practice, vest state courts with power to violate
the supreme law of the land?' The Constitution grants
Congress exclusive power to regulate bankruptcy and
under-this power Congress can limit the jurisdiction which
courts, state or federal, can exercise over the person and
property Of a debtor who duly invokes the bankruptcy
law. If Congress has vested in the bankruptcy courts
exclusive jurisdiction over farmer-debtors and their property, and has by its Act withdrawn from all other courts
all power under any circumstances to maintain and
enforce foreclosure proceedings against them, its Act is
the supreme law of the land which all courts-state and
federal-must observe. The wisdom and desirability of
an automatic statutory ouster of jurisdiction of all except
bankruptcy courts over farmer-debtors and their property
were considerations for Congress alone.
'Vallely v. Northern Fire Ins. Co., 254 U. S. 348, 353-4; and compare Elliott v. Lessee of Piersol, 1 Pet. 328, 340; Williamson v. Berry,
8 How. 495, 540, 541, 542.
Laws of Wisconsin, 1907, Chap. 234.
0
Vallely v. Northern Fire Ins. Co., supra, 355; cf. Taylor v. Sternberg, 293 U. S. 470,473.
Hines v. Lowrey, 305 U. S. 85, 90, 91; Davis v. Wechsler, 263

U. S. 22, 24.

440

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion o the Court.

308 U. S.

We think the language and broad policy of the FrazierLemlke Act conclusively_ demonstrate that Congress
intended to, and did deprioe the Wisconsin County Court
of the power and jurisdiction to continue or maintain in
any manner the foreclosure proceedings against appellants
without the consent after hearing of the bankruptcy court
in which the farmer's petition was then pending. 2
The Act expressly provided:
"(n) The filing of a petition . . . shall immediately
subject the farmer and all his property, wherever
located, . . . to the exclusive jurisdiction of the court,
including . . . the right or the equity of redemption
where the period of redemption has not or had not
expired, ....or where the sale has not or had not
been confirmed," and "In all cases where, at the time
of filing the petition, the period of redemption has or
had not expired, . . .or where the sale has not or had
not been confirmed, . . . the period of redemption shall
be extended or the confirmation of sale withheld for the
period necessary for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this section"; and
"(o) Except upon petition made to and granted by the
judge after hearing and report by the conciliation commissioner, the following proceedings shall not be instituted, or if instituted at any time prior to the filing of
a petition under this section, shall not be maintained, in
any court or otherwise, against the farmer or his property,
at any time after the filing of the petition under this
section, and prior to the confirmation or other disposition
of the composition or extension proposal by the court:
'That a state court before which a proceeding is competently initiated may-by operation of supreme federal law-lose jurisdiction to
proceed to a judgment unassailable on collateral attack is not a concept unknown to our federal system. See Moore v. Dempsey, 261
U. S. 86. Cf. Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458.

KALB v. FEUERSTEIN.
Opinion of the Court.

433

"(2) Proceedingsfor foreclosure of a mortgage on land,
or for cancellation, rescission, or specific performance of
an agreement for sale of land or for recovery of possession of land;
"(6) Seizure, distress, sale, or other proceedings under
an execution or under any lease, lien, chattel mortgage,
conditional sale agreement, crop payment agreement, or
mortgage.
"(p) The prohibitions . . . shall apply to all judicial
or official proceedingsin any court or under the direction
of any official, and shall apply to all creditors, public or
private, and to all of the debtor's property, wherever
located. All such property shall be under the sole jurisdiction and control of the court in bankruptcy, and subject to the payment of the debtor farmer's creditors, as
provided for in section 75 of this Act." [Italics supplied.]
Thus Congress repeatedly stated its unequivocal purpose to prohibit-in the absence of consent by the bankruptcy court in which a distressed farmer has a pending
petition-a mortgagee or any court from instituting, or
maintaining if already instituted, any proceeding against
the farmer to sell under mortgage foreclosure, to confirm
such a sale, or to dispossess under it.
This congressional purpose is more apparent in the
light of the Frazier-Lemke Act's legislative history.
Clarifying and altering the sweeping provisions for exclusive federal jurisdiction in the original Act,1" Congress
made several important changes in 1935.1' It was then
that subsection (p) was amended so that the prohibitions in subsection (o) of any steps against a farmerdebtor or his property once his petition is filed were made
specifically applicable "to all judicial or official proceed147

Stat. 1470, § 75.

"49 Stat. 942, 943.

.442

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

ings in any court or under the direction of any official,
and . . . to all creditors, public or private, and to all
of the debtor's property, wherever located. All such
property shall be under the sole jurisdiction and control of the court in bankruptcy, and subject to the payment of the debtor farmer's creditors, as provided for in
section 75 .
As stated by the Senate Judiciary Committee in reporting these amendments: ".... subsection (n) brings
all of the bankrupt's property, wherever located, under
the absolute jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court, where
it ought to be. Any farmer who takes advantage of this
act ought to be willing to surrender all his property to
the jurisdiction of the court, for the purpose of paying
his debts, and for the sake of uniformity>-...
"The amendment to subsection (p) further carries out
the amendment to subsection (n), and places the sole
jurisdiction of the bankrupt's estate and of his obligations
all in the bankruptcy court, without exception."'"
The Congressional purpose is similarly set out in the
House Judiciary Committee's Report: "The amendment
to subsection (n) in fact construes, 'interprets, and clarifies both subsections (n) and (o) of section 75. By
reading subsections (n) and (o) as now amended in this
bill, it becomes clear that it was the intention of Congress, when it passed section 75, that the farmer-debtor
and all of his property should come under the jurisdiction
of the court of bankruptcy, and that the-benefits of the
act should extend to the farmer, prior to confirmation of
sale, during the period of redemption, and during a moratorium; and that no proceedings after the filing of the
petition should be instituted, or if instituted prior to
the filing of the petition, should not be maintained in
any court, or otherwise.""1e
1'

Senate Report No; 985, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
House Report No. 1808, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.

KALB v. FEUERSTEIN.
433

Opinion of the Court.

Congress set up in the Act an exclusive and easily
accessible statutory means for rehabilitating distressed
farmers who, as victims of a general economic depression,
were without means to engage in formal court litigation.
To this end, a referee or Conciliation Commissioner was
provided for every county in which fifteen prospective
farmer-debtors requested an- appointment;' and express
provision was made that these Commissioners should
"upon request assist any farmer in preparing and filing a
petition under this section and in all matters subsequent
thereto arising under this section and farmers shall not be
required to be represented by an attorney in any proceeding under this section." "' In harmony withjthe general
plan of giving the farmer an opportunity for rehabilitation, he was relieved-after filing a petition for composition and extension--of the *necessity of litigation elsewhere and its consequent expense. This was accomplished
by granting the bankruptcy court exclusive jurisdiction of
the petitioning farmer and all his property with complete
and self-executing statutory exclusion of all other courts.
The mortgagees who sought to enforce the mortgage
after the petition was duly filed in the bankruptcy court,
the Walworth County Court that attempted to.grant the
mortgagees relief, and the sheriff who enforced the court's
judgment, were all acting in violation of the controlling
Act of Congress. Because that state court had been deprived of all jurisdiction or power to proceed with the
foreclosure, the confirmation of the sale, the execution of
the sheriff's deed, the writ of assistance, and the ejection
of appellants from their property-to the extent based
upon the court's actions--were all without authority of
law. Individual responsibility for such unlawful acts
must be decided according to the law of the State. We
therefore express no opinion as to other contentions based
1147

Stat. 1473 (q).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308-U. S.

upon state law and raised by appellees in support df the
judgments of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin.
Congress manifested its intention that the issue of jurisdiction in the foreclosing court need not be contested or
even raised by the distressed farmer-debtor. The protection of the farmers was left to the farmers themselves or
to the Commissioners who might be laymen, and considerations as to whether the issue of jurisdiction was
actually contested in the County Court,18 or whether it
could have been contested,'" are not applicable where the
plenary power of Congress over bankruptcy has been
exercised as in this Act.
The judgments in both cases are reversed and the causes
are remanded to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin for.
further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
AVERY v. ALABAMA.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ALABAMA.

No. 124.

Argued December 7, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. The guarantee by the Fourteenth Amendment of assistance of counsel in a criminal case, is not satisfied by a formal appointment of
counsel to defend the accused but includes an opportunity for
consultation between them and for preparation of the defense.
P. 446.
2. Upon xeview of a decision of a state court, the question whether
an accused has been denied the federal constitutional right to the
assistance of counsel, is to be determined by this Court upon an
independent examination of the record. P. 447.
3. Upon the record in this case, held that denial by the trial court
of a motion for a continuance, made by appointed counsel to obtain
1
1

Stoll v. Gottlieb, supra.
Chicot County 'Drainage District v. Baxter State Bank, supra.

