LABOR BOARD- v. FALK CORP.
444

Syllabus.

Under the circumstances 'of this case we cannot say
that the trial judge, who concluded a fairly conducted
trial by carefully safeguarding petitioner's rights in a
clear and fair charge, deprived petitioner of his constitutional right to assistance of counsel. The Supreme Court
of Alabama having found that petitioner was afforded
that right, its judgment is
Affirmed.
NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD v. FALK
CORPORATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE -CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 460.

Argued December 8, 11, 1939.-Decided January 2,
1940.

In consolidated proceedings against an employer under the National
Labor Relations Act, the Board, under § 10 (c), ordered the employer to cease and desist from interference with and domination
of a labor' union of its employees, to completely disestablish such
union, and to post notices of compliance with the Board's order;
and, under § 9 (c), directed an election of a representative for
collective bargaining on a ballot containing the names of two competing unions but omitting the company union. The Circuit Court
of Appeals granted enforcement, providing that the employees
should be free at any election to choose the company union to
represent them, and that the employer be permitted to add to the
'posted notices the qualification that the company union would be
disestablished and unrecognized until and unless it should be chosen
by the employees to represent them. Held."
1. The Circuit Court of Appeals was without power thus to
modify, and was without jurisdiction under § 9 (d) to review, the
Board's direction of an election. Pp. 458-459.
2. The Board's order that the company union be completely
disestablished and barred from consideration as an employee representative was supported by the evidence and findings, and was not
inconsistent with § 7 of the Act, which guarantees the right of
employees to choose their own representative. P. 461.

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

3. Modification of the Board's order by omitting the requirement
that the notices to be posted in the plant contain a statement that
the company would "cease and desist"' from its unlawful activities;
and by inclusion in such notice of assurances to the employees that
the company union was eligible for selection as their bargaining
representative-was error. P. 462.
4. The order of the Board should be enforced without
modification. P. 483.
106 F. 2d 454, reversed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 544, to review a decree modifying an
order of the National Labor Relations Board, 6 N. L. R. B.
654, and granting enforcement of the order as modified.
See also, 102 F. 2d 383.
Mr. Charles Fahy, with whom Solicitor General Jackson and Messrs. Robert B. Watts, Laurence A. Knapp,
and MortimerB. Wolf were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. A. J. Engelhard and Leon B. Laenfrom for the
Falk Corporation, and Mr. Giles F. Clark for the Independent Vnion of Falk Employees, respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Upon charges filed by the Amalgamated Association of
Iron, Steel, and Tin Workers of North America, Lodge No.
1528, the Labor Board found that respondent, an employer conceded to be engaged in interstate commerce,
had, in violation of the National Labor Relations Act,
interfered with its employees' free right to self organization and had fostered and dominated a company union
called the Independent Union.1 Respondent was ordered
to cease and desist from such interference and domination; to disestablish the company union completely, and
to post notices in its plant of compliance with the Board's
149

Stat. 449, 452, § 8.

LABOR BOARD v. FALK CORP.
453

Opinion of the Court.

order. At the same time and in a proceeding consolidated ' with the determination of the alleged unfair labor
practices, the Board, also upon petition of Amalgamated,
directed an election of a representative for collective bargaining on a ballot to contain the Amalgamated and the
Operating Engineers--a participant in the consolidated
hearing-but not the Independent.
On petition by the Board for enforcement of its order,
the Court of Appeals concluded ' that "the order of the
Board is valid and . . . its petition for enforcement . . .
is . . . granted." But, of its ow-: volition, the court provided in its final order "that the . . . employees shall
remain free to choose 'at the coming election, or any
future election held or conducted pursuant to the provisions of the . . . Act, the Independent Union to represent
them in labor relation dealings with respondent"; and
that respondent be permitted to add to the notices in its
plant the qualification that the Independent would be
disestablished and unrecognized only "until and unless...
[the] employees freely and of their own choice select
the Independent Union as their representative. . .. '"
In its petition for certiorari, the Board contended thai
the court was without jurisdiction to review a direction of
election and that, apart from the question of jurisdiction,
the court had improperly interfered with the discreticn
given the Board by the Act. We ganted certiorari to
review these important questions.'
The first of the two consolidated proceedings before the
Board was based upon the charge of the Amalgamated,
a labor organization, that respondent had engaged in
unfair labor practices contrary to § 8 (1), (2), (3) and
'Id., § 9 (c).
'102 F. 2d 383, 390.
106 F. 2d 454, 456, 457.
'Post, p. 544.

456

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

30. U. S.

(5) of the Act. As already noted, the Board found respondent had interfered with its employees' free choice of
a bargaining agent in violation of 8 (1), (2) and (3).
Because there was no clear showing that the Amalgamated then represented a majority of the employees, the
Board did not sustain the charge that respondent's refusal to bargain collectively with Amalgamated amounted
to an unfair labor practice under 8 (5).
The second phase of the Labor Board's action was
taken pursuant to § 9 (c)' of the Act, authorizing the
Bqard to investigate and' ascertain representatives of
employees for collective bargaining. As expressly permitted by subsection (c), the Board conducted this investigation, itself a distinct proceeding, "in conjunction
.with a proceeding under section 10" and rendered its
"Direction of Election" at the same time the order relative to the unfair'labor practices was entered "under section 10." It was this "Direction of Election" that provided for inclusion on the ballot of Amalgamated (C. I. 0.)
and the Operating Engineers (A. F. L.), but omitted
the Independent. The election was not actually to be
held until after the Board was "satisfied that the effects of
the company's unfair labor practices . . . [had] been dissipated by" compliance with the order to cease and desist
and to disestablish the Independent.
When the Board petitioned the Court of Appeals for
enforcement of its order against respondent, it filed a
transcript of the entire consolidated proceedings held under 9 (c) and 10 (c).
0 (c), 49 Stat. 453: "Whenever a question affecting commerce
arises concerning the representation of employees, the Board may investigate such' controversy and certify to the parties, in writing, the
name or names of the representatives that have been designated or
selected. In any such investigation, the Board shall provide for an appropriate hearing upon due notice, either in conjunction with a proceeding under section 10 or otherwise, and may take a secret ballot
of employees, or utilize any other suitable method to ascertain such
representatives."

LABOR BOARD v. FALK CORP.
453

Opinion of the Court.

Affirming the finding of unfair labor practices and
order made by the Board under 10 (c), the court considered its power to act at an end if nothing had been before
it "but the terms of an election by the employees about
to take place." But the court held, one judge dissenting,
that it did have jurisdiction to attach a condition to the
Board's order whereby Independent might become a
candidate in the proposed election because it was "disposing of a labor dispute case wherein the proceedings
. . . [had] gone beyond mere plans by the Board for
the calling of an election" and therefore had before it
"for final disposition, the matter of the selection of the
bargaining agent." Having thus found jurisdiction in
itself to make "final disposition . . of the selection of
the bargaining agent," the court thought it necessary
so to condition the Board's order as to prevent the elimination "for all time [of] one of the candidates-the
Independent Union."
Respondent and the intervening Independent (company) union here contend that the court below did not
actually modify the Board's "Direction of Election," but
if deemed to have done so, the modification was authorized under either § 9 (d) or § 10 (e).' They also support
'"Sec. 9.
"(d) Whenever an order of the Board made pursuant to section
10 (c) is based in whole or in part upon facts certified following an
investigation pursuant to subsection (c)of this section, and there is a
petition for the enforcement or review of such order, such certification
and the record of such investigation shall be included in the transcript
of the entire record required to be filed under subsections 10 (e) or
10 (f), and thereupon the decree of the court enforcing, modifying, or
setting aside in whole or in part the order of the Board shall be made
and entered upon the pleadings, testimony, and proceedings set forth
in such transcript.

"Sec. 10.
"(e) The Board shall have power to petition any circuit court of
appeals. . . within any circuit or district, respectively, wherein the
unfair labor practice in question occurred or wherein such person re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the result below on the ground that, as the court below
believed, the Board w€as without power to keep the company union-if purged from company influence-from
the ballot in a future election to select a bargaining agent,
because such proscription would impair the guarantee in
§ 7 of the Act that employees may bargain collectively
through representatives of their own free choice.
First. We think it apparent that the conditions
attached by the court to the Board's order operated as a
modification of the Board's Direction that Independent
be omitted from the ballot in the coming election. In
conditioning the Board's order, the court acted, as it
said, "that the coming election shall be free, uninfluenced by the employer, and unhampered by any election
order which eliminates [the Independent] as a contender." In effect, the court's qualification of the Board's
order judicially pronounced-in advance of the electionthat election. methods considered "suitable" by the courts
rather than by the Board must be followed. But § 9 of
the Act vests power in the Board, not in the court, to
select the method of determining what union, if any,
employees desire as a bargaining agent; to this end, the
Board "may take a secret ballot of employees, or
utilize any other suitable method to ascertain such
representatives."
sides or transacts business, for the enforcement of such order and for
appropriate temporary relief or restraining order, and shall certify and
file in the court a transcript of the entire record in the proceeding,
including the pleadings and testimony upon which such order was
entered and the findings and order of the Board. Upon such filing,
the court qhall cause notice thereof to be served upon such person, and
thereupon shall have jurisdiction of the proceeding and of the question
determined therein, and shall have power to' grant sdch temporary
relief or restraining order as it deems just and proper, and to make
and enter upon the pleadings, testimony, and proceedings set forth in
such transcript a decree enforcing, modifying, and enforcing as so
modified, or setting aside in wholeor in part the order of the
Board ..

LABOR BOARD v. FALK CORP.
453

.459

Opinion of the Court.

Nor can authority for such anticipatory judicial control
of election methods be found in § 9 (d) which permits a
review only in those cases in which the Board makes an
order relating to labor practices found to be unfair as a
result of a prior certification of a selected bargaining
agent.' Here, the Board's order that the employer cease
its Unfair practices, disestablish the company union and
post notices was not "based in whole or in part upon facts
certified" as the result of an election or investigation
made by the Board pursuant to § 9 (c). The proposed
election here has not even been held and consequently 1o
certification of a proper bargaining agent has been made
by the Board. Until that election is held, there can be
no certification of a bargaining representative and no.
Board order-based on a certification-has been or cail be
made, so as to invoke the court's powers under 9 (d).
The fundamental error of the court below lay in its
assumption that there was before it "for final disposition,
the matter of the selection of the bargaining agent." The
court has no right to review a proposed election and in
effect to supervise the manner in which it shall. thereafter
be conducted.' There can be no court review under 9 (d)
until the Board issues an order and requires the employer
to do something predicated upon the result of an
election.
Since this employer has not been ordered by the Board
to do anything predicated upon the results of an election
the court had no authority to act under 9 (d).
Second. The company and Independent contend, as the
court below held, that the Board's order of disestablishment-eliminating the Independent from the coming
election even though purged of company influience-violates § 7 10 of the Act which guarantees the right of
'American Federationof Labor v. Labor Board, ante, pp. 406, 409.
'Labor Board v. InternationalBrotherhood, ante, p. 413.
§ 7: "Employees shall have the right to self-organization, to form,
join, or assist labor organizations, to bargain collectively through rep.

460

OCTOBER TERM 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

employees to choose their own bargaining representatives.
On this premise, they argue that under the power in
10 (e) to modify orders of the Board, it was the duty of
the court below to alter the Board's order of disestablishment so as to protect the right of the employees to choose
the Independent if purged of company domination prior
to the contemplated election.
On the contrary, the Board reached the conclusion that
full. protection of the employees' right freely to choose
bargaining representatives required complete disestablishment effecting elimination of the Independent as a candidate. The findings of the Board, on which it reached this
conclusion, in part were:
Shortly after the passage of the, National Industrial
Recovery Act in 1933," respondent brought into being a
company dominated union of' its employees called the
"Works Council" which functioned under company control until April, 1937., At that time, the A. F. of L. and
the C. I. 0. were making intensive efforts to organize
respondent's employees in: the face of respondent's hostility. As the campaign of the outside unions progressed,
the company's personnel manager arranged, for April 12,
the first of four meetings, held by Representatives of the
Works Council during working hours in the company's
plant.hospital; in the course of these meetings there was
a suggestion that the company would advance the date of
a proposed wage income to influence the employees'
choice of a union, and the necessity for prompt incorporation "because the C. I. 0. was working in the plant"
was made clear; April 18, a meeting was held off of
respondent's property, but no definite form of organizaresentatives of their own choosing, and to engage in concerted activities, for the purpose of collective bargaining or other mutual aid or

protection."
'48

Stat. 195, 198.

LABOR BOARD v. FALK CORP.
453

Opinion of the Court.

tion was decided. upon; April 20, after. conferring with
an attorney whom respondent's president had suggested,
three employees incorporated, the Independent and notified respondent that it was ready to bargain collectively
for some four hundred employees; on April 23, respondent
recognized the Independent as the bargaining unit for all
its employees upon the statement of the three incorporators,. without proof, that they represented a majority
of the employees.
In summaryi the Board stated that respondent had
used the Independent "as a convenient weapon to prevent
the exercise of its employees' rights to self-organization
and collective bargaining." And the court below, in
approving the. findings of the Board, held that the testimony showed that the company "earnestly endeavored, to
prevent the- unionizing of its, employees and. when the
inevitable became imminent, it sought to dominate the
formation, organization and activities of the" company
union. The evidence abundantly supports the concurrent
"findings of the Board and the court below. 2 .. I
From these findings the Board, justifiably drew the
inference that this. company-created union .could -not
emancipate itself from habitual subservience to its creator, and that in order to. insure employees that complete
freedom. of choice guaranteed by § 7, Independent must
be completely disestablished and kept off the ballot.
Congress has intrusted the power to draw such infer-.
ences to'the Board and not to the courts.3 In order that
9 (c) might be an effective means of selecting freely
chosen representatives for collective bargaining as guaranteed by § 7, the Board acted within its power in dis"2Cf. Illinois Central R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 206
U. S. 441, 466.
" Labor Board v. Greyhound Lines, 303 U. S. 261, 271; Labor Board.
v. Newport News Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Co., ante, p.*241. *

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

establishing Independent so as to bar it from consideration as an employees' representative."
Third. The court also modified the Board's order by
omitting the requirement that the notices to be posted
in the plant contain a statement that the company would
"cease and desist" from its unlawful activities. As stated
in the first opinion of the court below, 5 the purpose of
the Board in requiring the company to publish notices
assuring- its employees that it would "cease and desist"
had been "to convey to the employees the knowledge of
a guarantee of an unhampered right in the future to determine their own labor affiliations." Knowledge on the
part of the men that the company would cease and desist
from hampering, interfering with and coercing them in
selection of a bargaining agent, which the Board found
the company had done successfully in the past, was essential if the employees were to feel free to exercise their
rights without incurring the company's disfavor. But
the notices as permitted by the court's modifying order
not only failed to assure the men that the company would
cease its unlawful and coercive practices,- but-backed
with the prestige of a formal court order-told. the men
that Independent, while in terms disestablished for the
time being, was still available for selection by the employees. Thus the modified notices neither renounced
"'Report of House Comm. on Labor, House Report No. 1147, 74th
Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 17-19: "It is of the essence that the rights of employees to self-organization and to join or assist labor organizationE

should not be reduced to a mockery by the imposition of employercontrolled labor organizations, particularly where such organizations

are limited to the employees of the particular employer and have no
potential economic strength."

" The court first affirmed the findings and order of the Board, 102
F. 2d 383; it wrote a second opinion rejecting the Board's objection
to the final decree embodying the disputed conditions to the Board's

order, 106

I. 2d 454.

BONET v. TEXAS CO.
Syllabus..

453

the company's unlawful practices nor promised their
abandonment, and left as a candidate the Independent,
toward which the unrenounced unlawful activities of the
company had been directed. We think the plant notices
as modified by the court's order fell far short of conveying "to the employees -the knowledge of a guarantee of
an unhampered right in the future to determine their
labor affiliations."
Other contentions of respondent have been considered
and found without merit.
The court below committed error in modifying the
Board's order. Accordingly, the cause is remanded to
the Court of Appeals with instructions to enforce the
Board's order without any modification.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS took no part in the consid-

eration or decision of this case.

BONET, TREASURER, v. TEXAS COMPANY (P. R.),
INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 132.

Argued December 11, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. To warrant reversal of a decision of the Supreme Court of Puerto
Rico on construction of local statutes the error must be manifest;
the interpretation must be inescapably wrong; the decision must be
patently erroneous. P. 470.
2. The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in overruling the following
conclusions of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, construing Island
statutes, viz.,
(a) That under § 9 of Act No. 102, 1925, an uninsured employer
could have an award of the Workmen's Relief Commission reviewed,
including the issue whether or not he was insured. Pp. 465, 471.

