256

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

UNITED STATES v. SPONENBARGER

308 U. S.
ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 72. Argued November 7, 8, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.
An owner of land within the area of the Boeuf Floodway, part of a
diversion project embraced in the comprehensive plan of flood
control adopted by the Mississippi River Flood Control Act of
1928, brought suit against the United States under the Tucker Act,
alleging that the Flood Control Act and operations contemplated
by and carried on pursuant to it involved damage to the land and
a taking of it for public use. A right to just compensation under
the Fifth Amendment and a right of recovery under the Flood
Control Act itself were asserted. The owner's use and possession
of the land had not been interfered with;-there had been no flooding of the land since the passage of the Act; and it appeared that
the floodway project in question had been abandoned. Held:
1. Upon the facts of this case, there was no "taking" of the
land within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment. P. 265.
(a) A finding that the program of improvement under the 1928
Act had not increased the flood hazard to which the owner's land
theretofore had been subject, was amply supported-by the record.
P. 265.
(b) An undertaking by the Government to lessen the hazard
of damages by floods which were inevitable but for such undertaking, does not constitute a taking of those lands which are not
afforded as much protection as others. The Fifth Amendment does
not require payment of compensation to a landowner for flood
damage not caused in any wise by action of the Government.
P. 265.
(c) The finding was justified that the benefits accruing to the
owner's land from the program of the 1928 Act outweighed any
damage occasioned. P. 267.
(d) The finding .that the proposed Boeuf Floodway was a
natural floodway was supported by the evidence. P. 265.
(e) The claim that there was a taking of the land when the
1928 Act went into effect and work began pursuant to it, because
the Act involved an imposition of a servitude for the purpose of
intentional future flooding of the proposed floodway,-examined
and rejected. P. 267.

U. S. v. SPONENBARGER.
256

Argument for the United States.

(f) The United States did not, by the 1928 Act, assume complete
control over all levees to the exclusion of the States and local
authorities. P. 268.
(g) The owner's "right of self defense" against floods through
locally built levees was not taken away. None of the levees on
which the owner here could rely was "built by" or "acquired by"
the United States; and § 14 of the Act of March 3, 1899, is
therefore inapplicable. P. 268.
This conclusion is consistent with the administrative construction of the Act.
2. The lands of the owner in this case having been not damaged
but actually benefited, there was no right of recovery under the
1928 Act. P. 270.
101 F. 2d 506, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 307 U. S. 621, to review the reversal of a
judgment for the Government in a suit under the Tucker
Act, brought by a landowner to recover compensation for
property alleged to have been taken by the Government
for public use.
Mr. Warner W. Gardner,with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Shea, and Messrs.
PaulA. Sweeney, CharlesA. Horsky, and Aaron B. Holman
were on the brief, for the United States.
The lands in the Boeuf Floodway now have more flood
protection than ever' before. Respondent's lands are
almost certain to be inundated by a very severe flood, but
this was the case before. It would be a travesty upon the
principle of "just compensation" to hold the Government
liable for a taking because of conjectured flood waters
when, from 1912 to 1927, the lands were six times flooded,
while from 1928 to 1939 they have not once been flooded,
although the latter period includes three great floods.
Respondent must show not only that the project involved a taking of her flowage rights, but also that the
taking has already happened. The Floodway was never
completed and has been abandoned under an Act of Congress. Respondent's position, in essence, is that because

OCTOBER TERM, 1939
Argument for the United States.

308 U. S.

the Government once intended to link the various projects
with the Boeuf Floodway the land in that floodway must
be held to have been taken though the project has been
abandoned. This would impose an impossible burden
upon flood control.
Any decrease in the value of respondent's land was not
due to any act on the part of the United States but
largely to extraneous factors, such as the low price of
cotton, burdensome taxation, and the flood of 1927.
The passage of the 1928 Act did not effect a taking
of property. WiUink v. United States, 240 U. S. 572.
Nor did the proclamations of the President approving the
proposed policy and method of flood control and authorizing the construction of guide levees in the Boeuf Basin.
The United States has power to control the height of
levees in the interests of commerce and navigation, without liability to landowners injured thereby. Jackson v.
United States, 230 U. S. 1.
Th- work done by the United States in the instant
case did not effect a taking. Jackson v. United States,
supra; Hughes v. United States, 230 U. S. 24.
The work done elsewhere along the river did not effect
a taking. The projected Boeuf Floodway was a separate
project included in the entire plan. There is no deterministic doctrine that a plan to take crystallizes into a
completed taking as soon as the first shovelful of earth is
turned. There must be at least work which constitutes
an actual interference with prQnerty rights. A present
.apprehension of a future taking does not warrant the
recovery, of compensation. Peabody v. United States,
231 U. S.'530; Portsmouth Co. v. United States, 260 U. S.
327. Under the rule of those cases, no "abiding purpose"
to take respondent's property could be shown in this
case.
Section 4 of the Act does not affect the liability of the
Uriited States in any way. It does not authorize any ac-

U. S. v. SPONENBARGER.
256

Argument for Respondent.

tion against the United States but is merely a direction
to federal officers that flowage rights must be acquired
before water is actually diverted.
Even if the section undertook to establish a liability
beyond the Constitution, it would be inapplicable here.
The language of the statute and its legislative history
unite to show that it relates only to the case where (1)
there,is a deliberate diversion, (2) with the result, or reasonably predictable result, (3) that additional damage will
result from floodwaters which would not otherwise have
passed over the land.
Such has been the administrative construction.
Mr. Lamar Williamson, with whom Mr. Joseph W.
House was on the brief, for respondent Sponenbarger.
The plan enacted into law by the Flood Control Act of
May 15, 1928, is a single, comprehensive project, of which
the Boeuf Floodway is an essential feature. When work
began on any part it affected property in the Floodway.
Hurley v. Kincaid, 285 U. S. 95; United States v. Hess,
70 F. 2d 142; 71 id. 78.
The Boeuf Floodway is in operative condition, certain
to function as designed. The proposed guide levees,
which have not been built, are unnecessary and immaterial to respondent's cause of action.
The Boeuf Floodway is an artificial diversion for which
the United States is solely responsible. Absolute federal
control over the fuse plug levee authorized by the Flood
Control Act of May 15, 1928, creates the Boeuf Floodway.
The established physical facts prove a "taking" of respondent's private property for public use. Actual physical invasion of her land is irrelevant. No consequential
damages are involved. Citing many authorities.
The Boeuf Spillway has not been abandoned.
Mr. Samuel A. Mitchell was on a brief for MercantileCommerce Bank & Trust Co. et al., respondents.

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK

308 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondent sued the United States under the Tucker
Act,1 alleging that the Mississippi Flood Control Act of
1928 2 and construction contemplated by that Act involved an "intentional, additional, occasional flooding,
damaging and destroying" of her land located in Desha
County, Arkansas. She maintained that her property
had thus been taken for a public use for which the Government is required to pay just compensation by the
Fifth Amendment.! In addition, she asserted a statutory
right of recovery under the Act itself. After full hearing,
judgrfient for the Government was entered in the District
Court.' The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.' Because
of the importance of both the legislation and the principles involved, we granted certiorari.'
A summary of the history behind the Mississippi Flood
Control Act of 1928 clarifies the issues here. Respondent's land is in the alluvial valley of the Mississippi River.
Alluvial soil, rich in fertility, results from deposits of
mud and accumulations produced by floods or flowing
water. Thus, floods have generously contributed to the
fertility of the valley. However, the floods that have
given fertility have with relentless certaiiL y undermined
the security of life and property. And occupation of the
alluvial valley of the Mississippi has always been subject
to this constant hazard.
'2& U. S. C. 41 (20).
569,45 Stat. 534; 33 U. S. C. 702 (a).
' Cf. Jacobs v. United States, 290 U. S.13, 16.
'21 F. Supp. 28.
p101 F. 2d 506.
'307 U. S. 621. Respondent primarily claims that governmental
operations under the Flood Control Act have resulted in taking for
public use her lands lying in the proposed Boeuf Floodway. This
Floodway was originally intended to cover a vast area roughly fifteen
miles wide and one hundred and twenty-five -miles long.
2c.

U. S. v. SPONENBARGER.
256

Opinion of the Court.

To enjoy the promise of its fertile soil in safety has'
for generations, been the ambition of the valley's occupants. As early as 1717, small levees were erected in the
vicinity of New Orleans. Until 1883, piecemeal flood
protection for separate areas was attempted through uncordinated efforts of individuals, communities, counties,
districts and States. Experience demonstrated that these
disconnected levees were utterly incapable of safeguarding an ever increasing people drawn to the fertile valley.
Under what was called the Eads plan, the United States
about 1883 undertook to co~perate with, and to co~rdinate the efforts of the people and authorities of the various river localities in order to effect a continuous line of
levees along both banks of the Mississippi for roughly
nine hundred and fifty miles-from Cape Girardeau,
Missouri, to the Gulf of Mexico.7 Recurrent floods, even
after the eventual completion of this tremendous undertaking, led to the conclusion that levees alone, though
continuous, would not protect the valley from floods.
And in 1927 there occurred the most disastrous of all
recorded floods. In congressional discussion of the 1928
Act, it was said-as the evidence here discloses-that
"There were stretches of country [in Arkansas] miles in
width and miles in length in which . . . every house,
every barn, every outbuilding of every nature, even the
fences, were swept away. It was as desolate as this
earth was when the flood subsided."8 Respondent's
land, under fifteen to twenty feet of water, was left bare
of buildings of any kind in this 1927 flood.
The 1928 Act here involved accepted the conceptionunderlying the plan of General Jadwin of the Army
Engineers-that levees alone would not protect the valley
from floods. Upon the assumption that there might be
' For the background of this legislation, see Jackson v. United States,
230 U. S. 1.
S69 Cong. Rec., Part 8, p. 8191.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

floods of such proportions as to overtop the river's banks
and levees despite all the Government could do, this
plan was designed to limit to predetermined points such
escapes of floodwaters from the main channel. The
height of the levees at these predetermined points was
not to be raised to the general height of the levees along
the river. These lower points for possible flood spillways
were designated "fuse plug levees." Flood waters diverted over these lower "fuse plug levees" were intended
to relieve the main river channel and thereby prevent
general flooding over the higher levees along the banks.
Additional "guide levees" were to be constructed to confine the diverted flood waters 'within limited floodway
channels leading from the fuse plugs. The suggested
fuse plug which respondent claims would damage her
property was to be at Cypress Creek; within two to two
and one-half miles of her land, and her land lies in the
.path of the proposed floodway to stem from this particular fuse plug.
The 1928 Act provided for a comprehensive ten-year
program for the entire valley, embodying a general bank
protection scheme, channel stabilization and river regulation, all involving vast expenditures of public funds.
However, before any part of this program was actually to
be carried out, the Act required extensive surveys "to
ascertain . . . the best method of securing flood relief
in addition to levees, before any flood control works other
than levees and revetments are undertaken." Lands intended for floodways were, pending completion of the
floodways, to enjoy the protection already afforded by
levees.
The District Court foundRespondent's land lies in that part of the BQeuf Basin
which the plan of the 1928 Act contemplated as a diversion channel or floodway. This Basin has always been

U. S. v. SPONENBARGER.
256

Opinion of the Court.

a natural floodway for waters from the Mississippi,9 and
respondent's lands, and. other lands similarly situated,
have been repeatedly overflowed by deep water despite
the presence of strong levees.1 The United States has
not caused any excessive flood waters to be diverted from
the Mississippi through the proposed Boeuf fuse plug (at
Cypress Creek) or floodway, and respondent's property
has not been subjected to any servitude from excessive
floodwaters, which did not already exist before 1928. She
still enjoys the same benefits from the Cypress Creek
drainage system as when it was created before 1928, and
the government program has not "in any wise, nor to
any extent increased the flood hazard thereto." No work
was ever commenced or done within the area of the proposed Boeuf floodway, and the fuse plug heading into it
was never established. This floodway as a whole has
been abandoned and the Eudora floodway substituted.
However, work done under the 1928 Act has shortened
the river by cut-offs and dredging and the river has been
lowered five or six feet, with the greatest improvement
in the vicinity of the proposed fuse plug. Levee protection to lands such as plaintiff's has not been reduced.
In fact, plaintiff's land has been afforded additional protection by virtue of the fact that this government improvement program has materially reduced the crest of
the river at all times, including flood crests, and her land
has also been protected by the Government's reconstruction of levees on the Arkansas River pursuant to its general program. In 1935, her property would have been
flooded but for the work done by the Governmeit which
has kept her land free of overflow since 1928. Lands,
9

This Basin also was found to be a floodway for waters from the

Arkansas and "Flat" (White) Rivers.
"Her

lands were found to have been flooded in 1912, 1913, 1919,

1921, 1922, 1927.

264

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

bpinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

such as respondent's, located immediately behind levees
along the main stem of the Mississippi, are liable to be
inundated and destroyed by the breaking of river front
levees and from natural crevassing, regardless of the
height and strength of the levee. Loss in market value
of respondent's property, since 1927, has not been caused
by any action of the Government, but is due to the flood
of 1927, the depression and other causes unconnected with
the governmental program under the 1928 Act. The
United States has in no way molested respondent's possession or interfered with her right of ownership. She
has remained in uninterrupted possession of her property
operating it as a farm and borrowing money upon it as
security.
From these findings the District Court concluded as a
°matter of law that(1) Respondent's property had not been taken within
the meaning of the constitutional prohibition against
taking without compensation;
: (2) Under the facts of this case, respondent had no
statutory right of recovery under the 1928 Act itself.
In reversing the District Court's judgment, the Circuit
Court of Appeals decided that the Boeuf floodway had
not been abandoned by the Government, but was in operative existence notwithstanding that the proposed guide
levees along the floodway had not been built and levees
on the Mississippi both immediately above and below the
proposed fuse plug had not been raised above the height
of what would have been the fuse plug levee. The Circuit Court of Appeals said that "By the provisions of this
plan of flood control

. .

. [respondent's, land] is sub-

jected to a planned and practically certain overflow in
case of the major floods contemplated and described. No
one can foretell when such may occur, but that is the
only remaining uncertainty. .

.

. If, and when, such

floods do occur, serious destruction must be conceded."

U. S. v. SPONENBARGER.
256

Opinion of the Court.

Upon these conclusions, the Circuit Court held that there
was a taking of respondent's property.
First. This record amply supports the District Court's
finding that the program of improvement under the 1928
Act had not increased the immemorial danger of unpredictable major floods. to which respondent's land had
always been subject. Therefore, to hold the Government
responsible for such floods would be to say that the Fifth
Amendment requires the Government to pay a landowner for damages which may result from conjectural
major floods, even though the same floods and the same
damages would occur had the Government undertaken no
work of any kind. So to hold would far exceed even the
"extremest" " conception of a "taking" by flooding within
the meaning of that Amendment. For the Government
would thereby be required to compensate a private property owner for flood damages which it in. no way caused.
An undertaking by the Government to reduce the menace from flood damages which were inevitable but for the
Government's work does not constitute the Government
a taker of all lands not fully and wholly protected. When
undertaking to safeguard a large area from existing flood
hazards, the Government does not owe compensation under the Fifth Amendment to every landowner which it
fails to or cannot protect. In the very nature of things
the degree of flood protection to be afforded must vary.
And it is obviously more difficult to protect lands located where natural overflows or spillways have produced
natural floodways.
The- extent of swamps and overflowed lands in the
Boeuf -floodway and the history of recurrent floods that
have passed through it, support the District Court's finding that the proposed Boeuf floodway is a naturally created floodway. And the Government's problem was by
"Cf. Transportation Co. v. Chicago, 99 U. S. 635, 642; Pumpelly
v. Green Bay Co., 13 Wall. 166.

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

channel stabilization, dredging, cut-offs or any effective
means, to prevent diversions from the Mississippi at all
points if possible. But if all diversions could not be
prevented, the Government sought to limit the flooding
to the least possible number of natural spillways heading
into natural floodways. If major floods may sometime
in the future overrun the river's banks despite-not because of-the Government's best efforts, the Government
has not taken respondent's property. And this is true,
although other property may be the beneficiary of the
project. The Government has not subjected respondent's land to any additional flooding, above what would
occur if the Government had not acted; and the Fifth
Amendment does not make the Government an insurer
that the evil of floods be stamped out universally before
the evil can be attacked at all.
The far reaching benefits which respondent's land enjoys from the Government's entire program precludes a
holding that, her property has been taken because of the
bare possibility that some future major flood might cause
more water to rin over her land at a greater velocity than
the 1927 flood which submerged it to a depth of fifteen
or twenty feet and swept it clear of buildings. Enforcement of a broad flood control program does not involve
a taking merely because it will result in an increase in
the volume or velocity of otherwise inevitably destructive floods, where the program measured in its entirety
greatly reduces the general flood hazards, and actually is
highly beneficial to a particular tract of land.
The constitutional prohibition against uncompensated
taking of private property for public use is grounded upon
a conception of the injustice in favoring the public as
against an individual property owner. But if governmental activities inflict slight damage upon land in one
respdct and actually confer great benefits when measured
in the whole, to compensate the landowner further would

U. S. v. SPONENBARGER.
256

Opinion of the Court.

be to grant him a special bounty. Such activities in substance take nothing from the landowner. While this
Court has found a taking when the Government directly
subjected land to permanent intermittent floods to an
owner's damage," it has never held that the Government
takes an owner's land by a flood program that does little
injury in comparison with far greater benefits conferred."
And here, the District Court justifiably found that the
program of the 1928 Act has greatly reduced the flood
menace to respondent's land by improving her protection
from floods. Under these circumstances, respondent's
land has not been taken within the meaning of the Fifth
Amendment.
Second. Even though the Government has not interfered with respondent's possession and as yet has caused
no flooding of her land,1 respondent claims her property
was taken when the 1928 Act went into effect and work
began on its ten-year program because the Act itself involves an imposition of a servitude for the purpose of
intentional future flooding of the proposed Boeuf floodway. But, assuming for purposes of argument that it
might be shown that such supposed future flooding would
inflict damages greater than all benefits received by respondent, still this contention amounts to no more than
the claim that respondent's land was taken when the
statutory plan gave rise to an apprehension of future
flooding. This apprehended flooding might never occur
for many reasons-one of which is that the Boeuf floodway might never be begun or completed. As previously
pointed out, the Act directed comprehensive surveys ben Jacobs v. United States, supra; United'Statesv. Cress, 243 U. S.
316; United States v. Lynah, 188 U. S. 445; Pumpelly v. Green Bay
Co., supra; cf. Sanguinetti v. United States, 264 U. S. 146.
"Cf. Bauman v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 574.
" Cf. Marion & R. Valley Ry. Co. v. United States, 270 U. S. 280,

282, 283.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

fore utilization of any means of flood control other than
levees and revetments. In general language it adopted a
program recommended by the Chief of Army Engineers,
but Congress did not sweep into the statute every suggestion contained in that recommendation.
Since it envisaged a vast program, the Act naturally
left much to the discretion of its administrators and future decisions of Congress." Recognizing the value of
experience in flood control, Congress and the sponsors
of the Act did not intend it to foreclose the possibility
of changing the program's details as trial and error might
demand.
Here, it is clear that those charged with execution of
the program of the 1928 'Act abandoned the proposed
Boeuf floodway and substituted another. Whatever the
original general purpose of Congress as to that floodway
and its fuse plug at Cypress Creek, congressional hearings,
reports and legislation have approved their abandonment.
Thus, respondent's contention at most is that the Government should pay for land which might have been in
a floodway if that floodway had not been abandoned. We
think this contention without merit. 6
Third. Respondent's "right of self defense" against
floods through locally built levees has not been taken
away. The 1928 Act does not represenf a self-executing
assumption of complete control over all levees to the
exclusion of the. States and local authorities. Respondent's argument that it does rests upon § 9 of the Act
making § 14 of the Act of March 3, 1899 (33 U. S. C.
15 Cf. South Carolina'v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4, 13. As to when
legislation does not constitute self-executing appropriation, see' Bauman-v. Ross, 167 U. S. 548, 596-7; Willink v. United States, 240 U. S.*
572.
"Whether recovery at law could-be had upon a similar contention
was left open by Hurley v. Kincaid, 285 U. S. 95. Cf. Peabody v.
United States, 231 U. S. 530, 539, 540.

U. S. v. SPONENBARGER.
256

269

Opinion of the Court.

408), which forbids interference with levees, "applicable
to all lands, waters, easements and other property and
rights acquired or constructed under the provisions of
this [1928] Act." But § 14 of the 1899 Act relates only
to levees and other structures "built by the UnitedStates," and no local levees on which respondent could
rely have as yet been "built by the United States" or
"acquired . . .under the provisions of" th3 1928 Act.
In fact, a proposal that the Government assume control
of local levees appeared in the original draft of the 1928
Act but was stricken out by amendment."' And the War
Department, charged with its administration, has treated
the Act as leaving local interests free to raise proposed
fuse plug levees if they wish. 8
Fourth. It is argued that the 1928 Act itself requires
judgment for respondent even though her property was
not "taken" within the Fifth Amendment. The pertinent provisions are"No liability of any kind shall attach to or rest upon
the United States for any damage from or by floods or
flood waters at any place:- Provided, however, That if in
carrying out the purposes of this Act it shall be found that
upon any stretch of the banks of the Mississippi River
it is impracticable to construct levees, either because such
construction is not economically justified or because such
construction would unreasonably restrict the flood channel, and lands in such stretch of the river are subjected
to overflow and damage which are not now overflowed
or damaged by reason of the construction of levees on
the opposite banks of the river, it shall be the duty of the
Secretary of War and the Chief of Engineers to institute
proceedings on behalf of the United States Government
to acquire either the absolute ownership of the lands so
169 Cong. Rec., Part 7, pp. 7114, 7115.

' Com. Doc. No. 2, House Committee on Flood Control, 71st Cong.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

subjected to overflow and damage or floodage rights over
such lands.
"... The United States shall provide flowage rights
for additional destructive flood waters that will pass by
reason of diversions from the main channel of the
Mississippi River: . .
This Court has previously decided that "the construction of levees on the opposite" bank of the Mississippi
River which resulted in permanently flooding property
across the river did not amount to a "taking" of the
flooded area within the Fifth Amendment. 9 We need
not here determine whether the provisions of the 1928
Act would themselves grant a statutory right to recover
if respondent's land had been damaged as a result of
levees constructed on the river's opposite bank. For § 4
of the Act contains the further specific reservation "That
in all cases where the execution of the flood-control plan
herein adopted results in benefits to property such benefits shall be taken into consideration by way of reducing
the amount of compensation to be paid." On this record
it is clear that respondent's lands were not damaged, but
actually benefited.
We do not find it necessary to discuss other questions
presented.
The judgment' of the Circuit Court of Appeals-is reversed and that of the.i)Istrict ,Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
"'Jackson v. United States, supra, 22, 23.

