OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

252

Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL
REVENUE, v. F. & R. LAZARUS & CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 56. Argued November 14, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.
1. In computing income tax under the Revenue Act of 1928, a taxpayer is entitled to the deduction for depreciation in respect cf
properties used in its business under leases from a trustee to whom
the properties had been conveyed by the taxpayer in a transaction
which in reality was a mortgage. P. 254.
2. A finding by the Board of Tax Appeals that a transaction between
the taxpayer and a trustee bank-in written form a transfer of
ownership with a lease back-was in reality a mortgage, is conclusive on the courts although the evidence on the subject permits
conflicting inferences. Pp. 254-255.
3. Proceedings before the Board of* Tax Appeals are equitable in
nature. P. 255.
101 F. 2d 728, affirmed.

post, p. 537, to review the affirmance of a
decision of the Board of Tax Appeals, 32 B. T. A. 633,
upholding a taxpayer's claim for allowance of a deduction
for depreciation in computation of income tax.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. Norman D. Keller argued the cause, and Solicitor
General Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Clark, and
Messrs. Sewall Key and Ellis N. Slack were on the brief,
for petitioner.
Messrs. Murray Seasongood and Robert P. Goldman,
with whom Mr. Harry Stickney was on the brief, for
respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

delivered the opinion of the Court.

In computing its net taxable income for 1930 and 1931,
respondent claimed depreciation on three buildings
occupied and used in its business as a department store.

HELVERING v. LAZARUS & CO.
252

Opinion of the Court.

During those years, the legal title to two of these properties and an assignment of a ninety-nine year lease to the
third were in a bank as trustee for certain land-trust certificate holders. These properties had been transferred
to the trustee by. the respondent in 1928 and the trustee
had at the same time leased all three back to respondent
for ninety-nine years, with option to renew and purchase. In claiming the deduction, respondent insisted
that the capital loss from wear, tear, and exhaustion of
the buildings was falling upon it, thus entitling it to the
statutory allowance for depreciation of buildings.' The
Commissioner disallowed this deduction on the ground
that the statutory right to depreciation follows legal title.
Reviewing the evidence, the Board of Tax Appeals concluded that the transaction between respondent and the
trustee bank was in reality a mortgage loan and ordered
the deduction allowed,' and the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed.? Upon facts which it considered "in all essential respects identical," the Court of Appeals for the Dis'Revenue Act of 1928, c. 852, 45 Stat. 791, 799-800. In computing
net income there shall be allowed as deductions: ...
Depreciation.-A reasonable allowance for the exhaustion, wear and
tear of property used in the trade or business, including a reasonable
allowance f~r obsolescence. In the case of property held by'one person for life with remainder to another person, the deduction shall be
computed as if the life tenant were the absolute owner of the property and shall be allowed to the life tenant. In the case of property
held in trust the allowable deduction shall be apportioned between the
income beneficiaries and the trustee in accordance with the pertinent
provisions of the instrument creating the trust, or, in the absence of
such provisions, on the basis of the trust income allocable to each.
.32 B. T. A. 633. The Board found the depreciable life of the
property to b fifty years, instead of forty as originally claimed by
respondent.
'101 F. 2d 728; cf. Commissioner v. H. F. Neighbors Realty Co.,
81 F. 2d 173.

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

trict of Columbia held depreciation not allowable.4

Be-

cause of the different results reached by jhe Courts of
Appeal, we granted certiorari.',
The federal income tax is aimed at net income determined from. gross income less items such as necessary
expenses incurred or capital consumed in earning it.
Thus, the controlling statute permits a taxpayer in computing net income to deduct a "reasonable allowance
for . . . exhaustion, wear and tear."

While it may more

often be that he who is both owner and user bears the
burden of wear and exhaustion of business property in
the nature of capital, one who is not the owner may
nevertheless bear the burden of exhaustion of capital
investment. Where it has been shown that a lessee using
property in a trade or business must incur the loss resulting from depreciation of capital he has invested, the
lessee has been held entitled to the statutory deduction.'
Here, the taxpayer used business property in which it
had a depreciable capital investment, provided it had
not recovered its investment through a sale. The Board
in substantial effect found that the instrument under
which the taxpayer purported to convey legal ownership
to the trustee bank Was in reality given and accepted
as no more than security for a loan on the property; the
"rent" stipulated in the concurrently executed ninetynine year "lease" back was intended as a promise to pay
an agreed five per cent interest on the loan; and the
"depreciation fund" required by the "lease" was intended
as an amortization fund, designed to pay off the loan
'City National Bank Building Co. v. Helvering, 68 App. D. C. 344;
98 6F. 2d 216, 217.
Post, p. 537.
'Duffy v. Central R. Co., 268 U. S. 55; Appeal of Gladding Dry
Goods Co., 2 B. T. A. 336, 338; Cogar v. Commissioner, 44 F. 2d 554.
See, Bowman Co. v. Commissioner, 59 App. D. C. 13; 32 F. 2d 404,
405; National City Bank v. United States, 64 C. Cls. 236, cert. den.
276 U. S. 620; Commissioner v. H. F. Neighbors Realty Co., supra.

HELVERING v. LAZARUS & CO.
Opinion of the Court.

252

in forty-eight and one-half years. These findings are
supported by evidence which permits, at most, conflicting
inferences and are, therefore, conclusive here. And, unless the Board committed error of law we must affirm.7
We think the Board justifiably concluded from its findings that the transaction between the taxpayer and the
trustee bank, in written form a transfer of ownership with
a lease back, was actually a loan secured by the property
involved. General recognition has been given the "established doctrine that a court of equity will treat a deed,
absolute in form, as a mortgage, when it is executed as
security for a loan, of money." 8 In the field of taxation,
administrators of the laws, and the courts, are concerned
with substance and realities, and formal written documents are not rigidly binding. Congress has specifically
emphasized the equitable nature of proceedings, before
the Board of Tax Appeals by requiring the Board to act
"in accordance with the rules of evidence applicable in
courts'of equity of the District of Columbia." 26 U. S. C.
611.
The Government relies in part upon Senior v. Braden,
295 U. S. 422. Whatever the significance of that case,
it can have no application here. In the Braden case, the
equitable doctrine-here controlling-of looking to extrinsic evidence behind a transfer absolute on its face
to determine whether only a security transaction was contemplated by the parties, was neither invoked nor passed
upon.
Judgment below is
Affirmed.
MR. JusTICE REED

took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.
'26 U. S. C. 641 (c).
8

Peugh v. Davis, 96 U. S. 332, 336; Hughes v. Edwards, 9'Wheat.

489, 495; Russell v. Southard, 12 How. 139; Teal v. Walker, 111 U. S.
242. See cases collected in 79 A. L. R. 937.

