OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

378

Syllabus.

308 U. S.

ing to effect a plan of debt readjustment in accordance
with the statute, that determination would have been
final save as it was open to direct review upon appeal.
Stoll v. Gottlieb, supra.5
The remaining question is simply whether respondents,
having failed to raise the question in the proceeding to
which they were parties and in which they could have
raised it and had it finally determined, were privileged
to remain quiet and raise it in a subsequent suit. Such
a view is contrary to the well-settled principle that res
judicata may be pleaded as a bar, not only as respects
matters actually presented to sustain or defeat the right
asserted in the earlier proceeding, "but also as respects
any other available matter which might have been presented to that end." Grubb v. Public Utilities Comm'n,
supra; Cromwell v. County of Sac, supra.
The judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to
the District Court with direction to dismiss the complaint.
Reversed.
POSTAL STEAMSHIP CORP. v. EL ISLEO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 73.

Argued December 12, 1939.--Decided January 2, 1940.

1. Under Rules II and VII of the Board of Supervising Inspectors,
when two steamships are on crossing courses, the privileged vessel. has no absolute right to keep her course and speed, regardless
'See, also, Miller v. Tyler, 58 N. Y. 477, 480; Drinkard v. Oden,
150 Ala. 475, 477, 478; 43 So. 578; Pulaski Avenue, 220 Pa. 276, 279,
280; 69 A. 749; People v. Russel, 283 II. 620, 524; 119 N. E. 617;
Beck v. State, 196 Wis. 242, 250; 219 N. W. 197.
4
*Together with No. 74, Postal Steamship Corp. v. Southern Pacific
Co., also on writ of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit.

POSTAL S. S. CORP. v. EL ISLEO.
378

Opinion of the Court.

of danger involved; her right to maintain her privilege ends when
there is danger of collision; and, in the presence of that danger,
both vessels must be stopped and backed if necessary, until signals for passing with safety have been made and understood.
P. 382.
2. These rules should be construed with Article 27, and are not essentially inconsistent with Articles 19-23, of the Inland Rules established by Act of June 7, 1897, c. 4, § 2, 30 Stat. 103, 33 U. S. C.
157, and are valid. Pp. 385, 388.
101 F. 2d 4, reversed.

CERTiORARI, post, p. 532, to review the affirmance of decrees of the District Court, in admiralty, 20 F. Supp. 373,
which dismissed a libel brought by the present petitioner
and awarded damages to the respondent, in a collision
case.

Mr. John C. Crawley, with whom Mr. Earle Farwell
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Chauncey I. Clark, with whom Mr. Burton H.
White was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE HUGHES delivered the opinion of

the Court.
The steamer Eastern Glade, owned by petitioner, collided with the steamer El Isleo, owned by respondent,
in the waters of Baltimore harbor. Each owner filed a
libel against the vessel of the other. The District Court
found that the Eastern Glade was solely at fault (20 F.
Supp. 373) and decrees dismissing petitioner's suit and
awarding damages to respondent were affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 101 F. 2d 4. In the view that
there was involved an important question of maritime
law which had not been, and should be, settled by this
Court, certiorari was granted.
That question is said to.arise from rulings of the Circuit Court of Appeals with respect 'to the validity of

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

Rules II and VII of the Board of Supervising Inspectors'
in the light of the applicable provisions of the Act of
Congress.2 See The Fulton, 54 F. 2d 467, 468.
The facts are thus stated by the Circuit Court of
Appeals:
"The collision occurred in the waters of Baltimore Harbor near the junction of Curtis Bay Channel with Fort
McHenry Channel. The latter is about 600 feet wide and
runs in a northwesterly direction towards Baltimore; the
former, running nearly east and west, comes into Fort
McHenry Channel from the west but does not cross it.
The night was clear, the tide ebb, and a 15 mile breeze
was blowing from the northwest. The steamship Eastern
Glade, light, was bound out of Curtis Bay Channel and
was intending to turn left into Fort McHenry Channel
and proceed to Baltimore. The steamer El Isleo, laden
with 1,000 tons of steel ore, also bound for Baltimore, was
proceeding up Fort McHenry Channel at full speedabout eight miles through the water, as she was working
only one boiler. When the vessels sighted each other
they were more than a mile apart, the El Isleo being
about four points on the starboard bow of the Eastern
Glade. The latter stopped her engines and shortly thereafter sounded a two blast signal to indicate, as her master
says, that his course was to the left and up Fort McHenry
Channel. El Isleo answered the two blast signal with
an alarm followed by one blast to indicate that she would
keep her course and speed. Captain Korn of El Isleo
testified that the Eastern Glade responded with four
blasts followed by one, while her captain says she responded with three blasts to indicate that she was reversing her engines. El Isleo kept on until she reached
1 "Pilot

Rules for Certain Inland Waters," etc., effective, as amended,

May 1, 1912.
Inland Rules, Act of June 7, 1897, Arts. 19, 21-23, 27, 30 Stat. 101,
102; 33 U. S. C. 204, 206-208, 212.

-

POSTAL S. S. CORP. v. EL ISLEO.
378

Opinion of the Court.

a buoy just opposite Curtis Bay Channel, when, believing
collision imminent, she put her rudder hard right and
swung out of Fort McHenry Channel to her starboard.
The Eastern Glade, although her master testified that he
intended to hold back in Curtis Bay Channel until El
Isleo had passed the junction, came clear across Fort
McHenry Channel and brought her stem into contact
with the port side of El Isleo about amidships. The place
of collision was east of Fort McHenry Channel. The
district court did not determine how far to the east, but
McDonald testified it was about 200 yards."
After referring to the question whether the vessels
were on crossing courses as the district court had held,
or whether the situation was one of special circumstances,
as petitioner contended, the Court of Appeals continued:
"It is not disputed that El Isleo's course up Fort McHenry Channel was always apparent to tht Eastern
Glade. But the latter's course was not immediately apparent to El Isleo; when the Eastern Glade should reach
the end of Curtis Bay Channel, she might turn left, she
might turn right, or she might conceivably, though improbably, cross Fort McHenry Channel, since there was
water enough to the East of that channel, although
neither pier, port nor anchorage to which she might be
bound appears on the chart. When, however, she sounded
her two blast signal, she indicated an intention either
to cross the bows of El Isleo by proceeding across Fort
McHenry Channel, or to turn to the left and proceed
up that channel. The former alternative would clearly
result in crossing courses; the latter would result in converging courses, since the Eastern Glade's course, if projected, would carry her into the starboard lane of Fort
McHenry Channel, unless 'she violated her duty by going
up on the wrong side. Such converging courses involve
the very risk that resulted in the collision, and the rights

382

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

and duties of the vessels are governed by Articles 19, 22
and 23 of the Inland Rules, 33 U. S. C. A., §§,204, 207,
208....
Accordingly, the district court was right in
treating the situation as one of crossing courses."
The Articles of the Inland Rules established by Congress 8 provide:
"Art. 19. When two steam-vessels are crossing, so as
to involve risk of collision, the vessel which has the other
on her own starboard side shall keep out of the way of
the other.
"Art. 21. Where, by any of these rules, one of the two
vessels is to keep out of the way, the other shall keep her
course and speed.
'Art. 22. Every vessel which is directed by these rules
to keep out of the way of another vessel shall, if the
circumstances of the case admit, avoid crossing ahead of
the other.
"Art. 23. Every steam-vessel which is directed by these
rules to keep out of the way of another vessel shall, on
approaching her, if necessary, slacken her speed, or stop
or reverse."
Applying these statutory provisions, and viewing tho
situation as one of "crossing courses," the Court of Appeals found that no fault appeared in the navigation of
El Isleo, the "privileged vessel." The fault of the Eastern Glade was found to be glaring and alone sufficient to
account for the disaster.
Petitioner does not contest the ruling that the Eastern
Glade was at fault but insists that El Isleo was also at
fault. Petitioner argues that El Isleo violated Rules II
and VII of the Supervising Inspectors, purporting to
have been adopted under the authority of the statute.'
These rules are as follows:'
'Act of June 7, 1897, c. 4, § 2, 30 Stat. 102; 33 U. S. C. i57.
'See Note 1.

POSTAL S. S. CORP. v. EL ISLEO.
378

Opinion of the Court.

"Rule II. Steam vessels are forbidden to use what has
become technically known among pilots as 'cross signals,'
that is, answering one whistle with two, and answering
two whistles with one.
"Rule VII. When two steam vessels are approaching'
each other at right angles or obliquely so as to involve
risk of collision, other than when one steam vessel is over.
taking another, the steam vessel which has the other on
her own port side shall hold her course and speed; and
the steam vessel which has the other on her own starboard
side shall keep out of the way of the other by directing
her course to starboard so as to cross the stern of the
other steam vessel, or, if necessary to do so, slacken h,speed of stop or reverse.
"If from any cause the conditions covered by this situation are such as to prevent immediate compliance with
each other's signals, the misunderstanding or objection
shall be at once made apparent by blowing the danger
signal, and both steam vessels shall be stopped and backed
if necessary, until signals for passing with safety are
made and understood."
Petitioner says that these rules are not inconsistent
with the statute and have the force of law; that they
provide in substance. "that where the so-called privileged
vessel in a crossing situation receives an unacceptable
proposal to cross ahead, ,the privileged vessel
may not
'maintain her course and: speed until collision becomes
imminent but must at once sound danger signals and
stop and back if necessary until a safe passage has been
agreed upon." Hence, it is argued, that El Isleo was
required to. "stop, and reverse if necessary," when the
Eastern Glade sounded her two-blist signal, and that the
only question here is as to the validity of the Inspectors'
requirements.
Respondent contends that the statutory provisions of
Articles 19-23 govern; that it was not only the privilege

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

but the duty of El Isleo to "keep her course and speed";
that it was not the intention of the Supervising Inspectors to modify that affirmative duty; that El Isleo was
not bound to agree to the two-blast signal from the
Eastern Glade; that the signals had been made and were
understood by each vessel and the collision was due to
the miscalculation of the master of the Eastern Glade;
and that if there were any errors in El Isleo's navigation
they were errors in extremis for which she is not liable.
The Inspectors' prohibition against "cross signals,"
found in Rule II, was originally applicable to "vessels
approaching each other from opposite directions" but
was amended so that its terms apply to crossing situations
as well.' The Fulton, supra. But the Court of Appeals
in a number of decisions involving crossing situations has
disregarded the Inspectors' rule and has "exonerated a
vessel which pressed her statutory privilege by, crossing
the signal and holding her course and speed." 7 Id. It
is unnecessary to review the many cases which the present
parties cite, as the court itself has summarized its
position:
"Our reasoning has been, that, as the statute (Inland
Rules) article 21 (33 U. S. C. A., § 206), puts a duty upon
the privileged ship to keep her course and speed, no rule
can be valid which affects to relieve her of it, and that she
may announce her determination to insist by crossing the
first signal. The doctrine has been too long and too
re!eatedly established to allow any question now, but
it is- plain that the inspectors have never assented to
it." Id.
'See Rule. III, "Pilot Rules for Atlantic and Pacific Coast Inland
Waters," edition October 23, 1906.
'See Rule II, edition July 1, 1907; edition May 1, 1912.
In The Fulton, 54 F. 2d, p. 468, the Circuit Courtof Appeals cited
to this effect The John King, 49 F. 469; The Cygnus, 142 F. 85; The
Transfer No. 15, 145 F. 503; The John H. Starin, 162 F. 146; The
Montauk, 180 F. 697; The Ashley, 221 F. 423.

POSTAL S. S. CORP. v. EL ISLEO.
378

Opinion of the Court.

Although the Court of Appeals, after making this statement in The Fulton, said that, as the court was then constituted, it could not see any necessary inconsistency
between the Inspectors' rule and the statute, the court
concluded that "unless the Supreme Court chooses finally
to settle the whole matter otherwise," it had no option
"incrossing situations" and would "continue to disregard
the rule." The Fulton, however, presented a "head-on
situation," and the Court of Appeals, feeling that it was
not committed in such a case, decided that the steamship
there in question was "at fault for crossing the signal."
Id., p. 469.
In the instant case, the Court of Appeals again referred
to the rule as established in the second circuit, "that in a
crossing situation the privileged vessel may 'cross' the
signal of the burdened vessel and hold her course and
speed until it becomes evident that the burdened vessel
either cannot or will not keep out of the way." And the
court observed that although this rule was criticised in
The Fulton, it was thought to be "too firmly established
to be d~parted from until the Supreme Court speaks."
The court added that it still adhered to that view. 101
F. 2d, p. 6.
We may assume that the Supervising Inspectors had no
Intention to depart from the statute under which they
claimed authority to make their regulations. And Articles
19-23 of the statute are to be read 'in the light of Article
27 which has the following controlling qualification:
"Art. 27. In obeying and construing these rules due
regard shall be had to all dangers of navigaption and collision, and to any special circumstances which may render
a departure from the above rules necessary in order to
avoid immediate danger."
Moreover, the Inspectors expressly recognize and iollow
the statute in providing in Rule VII, first paragraph, that
"the steam vessel which has the other on her own port

386

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

side shall hold her course and speed; and the steam vessel
which has the other on her own starboard side shall keep.out of the way of the other by directing her course to
starboard so as to cross the stern of the other steam vessel,
or, if necessary to do so, slacken her speed or stop 6 r reverse." The second paragraph of Rule VII, providing for
the stoppage and backing of both vessels if necessary
"until signals for passing with safety are made and understood," was clearly intended to apply to the dangerous
situation envisaged in Article 27 of the statute.
The grounds for criticising the rulings of the Court of
Appeals of the second circuit in disregarding the Inspectors'
requirement cannot be better stated than in the court's
own language in The Fulton. After referring to its former
decisions, by which it felt-itself bound, the court observed
that "concededly there comes a time when the privileged
vessel must yield"; that there is never a "right of way
into collision"; that the point at best "is one of degree";
and that if the question were res integra the Inspectors'
rule would be held valid. The court continued: "The
inspectors apparently believe that in the greater number
of cases it will conduce to collision to allow a pilot to
keep on in the face of a proposal by the approaching
vessel that she put herself across his bows. True, the
proposer often will not . act without consent; but it is
certainly possible that prudence forbids speculation as
to whether he has still time or disposition to keep out of
the way. Again and again cases arise in which the proposal is repeated, the vessels coming nearer all the time;
sometimes it is repeated even after it has been crossed
by a refusal. No substantial interest is at stake except
to escape collision which will certainly be avoided if both
stop." Stopping "is more likely to avoid disaster than
going on in the teeth of what is at least a proposal, and
may be a declaration." So, the court thought that the
situation was a proper one "for the exercise of the in-

POSTAL S. S. CORP. v. EL ISLEO.
378

Opinion of the Court.

spectors' function in providing for cases not covered explicitly." The court could not see "any conflict with the
statute, unless that be read without regard to its purpose."
For Articles 19 and 21 "do not require any signals at all";
and "if one is given proposing a dangerous course," the
court thought it "too verbal and rigid an interpretation
to say that the privileged vessel is inevitably still bound;
at least officials, vested with general authority, are not
helpless to meet the situation by a rule." And after
noting that Article 27 of the statute authorized a departure "to avoid immediate danger," the court posed
the question-"Can it be that though vessels themselves
may so depart, the inspectors may not say that a situation likely to be dangerous shall be treated as such?"
We are in accord with the criticism thus effectively
expressed by the Court of Appeals of its established rule,
and we think that the court should be relieved of its
assumed obligation to follow its former decisions holding
the Inspectors' requirement invalid. We think that Inspectors' Rule II should be read in connection with their
Rule VII and that both should be construed in the light
of the statutory provision in Article 27.
The plain purpose of the Inspectors' Rules is to minimize the danger of collision. The so-called privileged
vessel has no absoluta right to keep-her course and speed
regardless of the danger involved in that action. Her
right to maintain her privilege ends when there is danger
of collision and in the presence of that danger both ves-.
sels must be "stopped and backed if necessary, until
signals for passing with safety are made and understood."
In The Quogue, 47 F. 2d 873,. where the Court of
Appeals of the second circuit had before it a "head-on
situation," the court condemned a vessel "for crossing
signals .and insisting upon her rights." That vessel was
The Transfer and the right insisted upon was.that of port

388

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

to port passage. The fault of the other vessel, The
Quogue, in undertaking to cross the bow of The Transfer
was found to be "most glaring," but The Transfer was
also held at -fault because her- master was not justified
in acting on the assumption that The Quogue would not
carry out the maneuver indicated by her signals unless
he consented. He did not "reverse as promptly as he
should," for when the dangerous situation was presented
"he was not priyileged to continue on his course on th6
chance that the other vessel would change her announced
purpose if he refused to consent." The Court of Appeals
aptly said: "It is a hard rule which requires a master
when he sees another vessel about to cross his bow with
wanton disregard of his rights to stop and allow the arrogant usurper to pursue his wrongful course. But safety
is better than pride; and however slight the hope that
rules to promote safety will be observed under such circumstances, whatever courts may say, the vessels must
be judged according to their legal duties."
The Court of Appeals in The Fulton considered these
observations in The Quogue'to be pertinent, and we think
that they are pertinent to a dangerous situation arising
i connection with crossing courses. We see no sufficient
ground for a distinction in upholding and applying the
Inspectors' requirements in such cases.
We deal simply with the question presented with
respect to the validity of the Inspectors' rules here in
question. We hold these rules are not essentially inconsistent with the statute and are valid, both the statutory
provisions, and the Inspectors' Rules being designed to
promote safety in situations fraught with danger. We do
not pass, or intimate any opinion, upon the particular
facts of the instant case, as it is the appropriate province
of'the Court of Appeals to deal with these. As the Court
of Appeals apparently did not consider the conduct of El
Isleo in the light of 'the Inspectors' requirements, but

HAGGAR CO. v. HELVERING.
Syllabus.

378

thought, under the compulsion of its former decision, that
it must disregard those requirements, we think that the
cause should be returned to the Court of Appeals to be
decided by it, free of that compulsion.
To afford that freedom we reverse the judgment5 and
remand.
Reversed.

HAGGAR COMPANY v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 176.

Argued December 15, 1939.-Decided January 2, 1940.

1. A literal reading which leads to absurd results will be avoided
when the statute can be given a reasonable application consistent
with its words and purpose. P. 394.
2. Sections 215 and 216 of the National Industrial Recovery Act
impose on domestic corporations an annual capital stock tax and
an annual tax on profits in excess of 121/2 per cent of the capital
stock, both calculated on the basis of the value of the capital stock
as declared by the corporation's return for the first year in which
the tax is imposed, "which declaration of value can not be
amended." For any subsequent year the adjusted declared value
shall be the original declared value as changed by certain prescribed capital adjustments. Held:
(1) That the purpose is to allow the takpayer to fix for itsojf
the amount of the taxable base with the proviso that the amount
thus fixed for the first taxable year shall be accepted, with only
s bch changes as the statute provides, for the purpose of computing
the capital stock and excess profits taxes in the later years.
P. 394.
(2) The phrase "first return" means a return for the first year
in which the taxpayer exercises the privilege of fixing its capital
stock value for tax purposes. P. 395.
(3) This includes a timely amended return for that year.
P. 396.
3. A Treasury Regulation which changes an earlier construction of a
statute without serving any governmental convenience or purpose

