188

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing that of the District Court and directing the proceeding to be reinstated is affirmed and the cause is remanded
to the District Court with direction to proceed in
conformity with this opinion.
_ Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN COMPANY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 397.

Argued November 15, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.

1. A judgment quashing a count upon the ground of duplicity is not
appealable to this Courl under the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 193.
2. The construction of an indictment by the District Court binds
this Court on an Ippeal under the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 194.
3. A decision of the District Court holding that an indictment failed
to charge an offense under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act because of
the effect on that Act of later statutes, held a construction of the
Sherman Act and reviewable under the Criminal Appeals Act.
P. 195.
4. Repeals by implication are not favored. When there are two Acts
upon the same subject, effect should be given to both if possible.
P. 198.
5. The Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 does not operate to repeal the Sherman Anti-Trust Act in its application to
agreements of producers, distributors and others, restricting interstate commerce in milk, when such agreements are not participated
in or directed by the Secretary of Agriculture in pursuance of the
former Act. Pp. 196-202.
With respect to interstate commerce in agricultural commodities
or their products, an agreement made with the Secretary as a party,
or an order made by him, or an arbitration award or agreement
approved by him, pursuant to the authority conferred by the
Agricultural Act and within the terms of the immunity described
by §§ 8 (b) and 3 (d), would be a defense to a prosecution under
the Sherman Act to the extent that the prosecution sought. to
penalize what was thus validly agreed upon or directed by the
Secretary. Further than that the Agricultural Act does not go.

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN CO.
Statement of the Case.

188

6. A license issued by the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to
the marketing of milk in a given area is not a defense to an indictment under the Sherman Act for conspiracies in restraint of that
commerce, alleged to have been continued after the license had
expired. P. 202,
7. An order issued under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
regulating marketing of milk is not a defense to an indictment of
producers, distributors and others under the Sherman Act charging
conspiracies engaged in before the period covered by the order.
P. 202.
8. The Capper-Volstead Act, in authorizing producers of agricultural products, including dairymen, to act together in collectively
processing, preparing for market, handling and marketing their
products, in interstate and foreign commerce, and to have marketing agencies .in common and make necessary agreements to effect
these purposes, did not authorize a conspiracy of dairymen with
distributors, labor officials, municipal officials, and others, to maintain artificial and non-competitive prices to be paid to all producers for all fluid milk produced in Illinois and neighboring States
and marketed in the Chicago area, which would compel independent distributors to exact a like price from their customers, and
would control the supply of fluid milk permitted to be brought to
the city. P. 203.
9. Under § 2 of the Capper-Volstead Act, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to determine, subject to judicial review, whether
any such eobperative association monopolizes or restrains interstate trade to such an extent that the price of any agricultural
product is unduly enhanced, and to issue a cease and desist order.
But this qualifying procedure was not intended to replace, postpone, or prevent prosecution under § 1 of the Sherman Act for
the punishment of conspiracies by producers and others such as
are described in the last preceding paragraph. P. 205.
10. Where the District Court has based its decision on a particular
construction of the underlying statute, the review here under the
Criminal Appeals Act is confined to the question of the propriety
of that construction. Distinguishing United States v. CurtissWright Corp., 299 U. S. 304. P. 206.
28 F. 2d 177, in part, reversed.

from a judgment of the District Court sustaining demurrers and dismissing an indictment charging comAPPEAL

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

bination and conspiracy in violation of § 1 of the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act. As to one of the counts, the appeal is
dismissed.
Assistant Attorney GeneralArnold, with whom Solicitor
General Jackson and Messrs. Hugh B. Cox, Leo F. Tierney, Robert K. McConnaughey, Maurice L. A. Gellis,
and William J. Campbell were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. Loy N. McIntosh, with whom Messrs. Bernhardt
Frank and FrederickSecord were on the brief, for Sidney
Wanzer & Sons, Inc. et al.; Mr. William C. Graves, with
whom Messrs. Edward J. Hennessy and Martin Burns
were on the brief, for Pure Milk Assn. et al.; Mr. Joseph
A. Padway, with whom Mr. Abraham W. Brussell was on
the brief, for Robert G. Fitchie et al.; Mr. FredericBurnham, with whom Messrs. Miles G. Seeley, Louis E. Hart,
Irving Herriott, and Isidore Fried were on the brief, for
The Borden Co. et al.; Mr. Daniel D. Carmell submitted
for Leslie G. Goudie; Messrs. Charles S. Deneen, Roy
Massena, and Donald N. Schaffer submitted for Hunding
Dairy Co. et al.; Messrs. Ben H. Matthews and James P.
Dillie submitted for Leland Spencer; Mr. Louis M. Mantynband submitted for Western United Dairy Co. et al.;
and Messrs. Ben H. Matthews, Harry J. Dunbaugh, and
James P. Dillie were on a brief for Associated Milk
Dealers, Inc. et al.,-appellees.
MR. CHIrF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
The Government appeals from a judgment of the District Court sustaining demurrers and dismissing an indictment charging combination and conspiracy in
violation of § 1 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. 28 F.
Supp. 177.

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

The trade and commerce alleged to be involved is the
transportation to the Chicago market of fluid milk produced on dairy farms in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and
Wisconsin and the distribution of .the milk in that market. The Government divides the defendants into five
groups,-(1) distributors and allied groups which include
a number of corporations described as major distributors
and their officers and agents, the Associated Milk Dealers, Inc., a trade association of milk distributors, and its
officers and agents, and the Milk Dealers Bottle Exchange, a corporation controlled by the major distributors; (2) the Pure Milk Association, a co6perative association of milk producers incorporated in Illinois, and its
officers and agents; (3) the Milk Wagon Drivers Union,
Local 753, engaged in the distribution of milk in Chicago,
and certain labor officials; (4) municipal officials, including the president of the Bothrd of Health of Chicago and
certain subordinate officials; (5) two persons who arbitrated a dispute between the major distributors and the
Pure Milk Association, fixing the price of milk to be paid
to the members of the association.
The indictment, which was filed in November, 1938,
contains four counts. The several defendants challenged
it by demurrers and motions to quash on various grounds.
The District Court held with respect to counts one, two
and four, that the production and marketing of agricultural products, including milk, are removed from the
purview of the Sherman Act by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (50 Stat. 246); also with
respect to all four counts, according to the formal terms
of its judgment, that the Pure Milk Association, as an
agricultural co6perative association, its officers and
agents, are exempt from prosecution under § 1 of the
Sherman Act by § 6 of the Clayton Act (15 U. S. C. 17),
§ § 1 and 2 of the Capper-Volstead Act (7 U. S. C. 291,

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

292), and the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act.
With respect to count three, the District Court held that
it was duplicitous, in the view that it charged several
separate conspiracies and also that it did not definitely
charge a restraint of interstate commerce.
The judgment expressly overruled the demurrers and
motions to quash so far as they challenged the constitutionality of the Sherman Act or the sufficiency of the
allegations of unlawful conspiracy, and also so far as it
was contended that interstate commerce was not involved
in counts one, two and four. The court added that it
overruled all the defendants' contentions which it had
not specifically overruled or sustained. ,The judgment
ends by dismissing the indictment as to all defendants.
The first question presented concerns our jurisdiction.
The exceptional right of appeal given to the Government
by the Criminal Appeals Act is strictly limited to the
instances specified.' The provision invoked here is the
'This Act (18 U. S. C. 682, Jud. Code, § 238, 28 U. S. C. 345)
provides:
"An appeal may be taken by and on behalf of the United States
from the district courts direct to the Supreme Court of the United
States in all criminal cases, in the following instances, to wit:
"From a decision or judgment quashing, setting aside' or sustaining
a demurrer to, any indictment, or any count thereof, where such decision or judgment is based upon the invalidity, or construction of the
statute upon which the indictment is founded.
"From a decision arresting a judgment of conviction for insufficiency
of the indictment, where such decision is based upon the invalidity or
construction of the statute upon which the indictment is founded.
"From the decision or judgment sustaining a special plea in bar,
when the defendant has not been put in jeopardy.. ..
"Pending the prosecution and determination of the appeal in the
foregoing instances, the defendant shall be admitted to bail on his own
recognizance: Provided, That no appeal shall be taken by or allowed
the United States in any case where there has been a verdict in favor
of the defendant."

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

one which permits review where a decision quashing or
sustaining a demurrer to an indictment or any of its
counts is based upon the "construction of the statute
upon which the indictment is founded." The decision
below was not predicated upon invalidity of the statute.
The established principles governing our review are
these: (1) Appeal does not lie from a judgment which
rests on the mere deficiencies of. the indictment as a
pleading, as distinguished from a construction of, the
statute which underlies the indictment. (2) Nor will an
appeal lie in a case where the District Court has considered the construction of the statute but has also rested
its decision upon the independent ground of a defect in
pleading which is not subject to our examination. In
that case we cannot disturb the judgment and the question of construction becomes abstract. (3) This Court
must accept the construction given to the indictment by
-he District Court as that is a matter we are not authorzed to review. (4) When the District Court holds that
tie indictment, not merely because of some deficiency in
leading but with respect to the substance of the charge,
,ioes not allege a violation of the statute upon which the
indictment is founded, that is necessarily a construction
of that statute. (5) When the District Court has rested
its decision upon the construction df the underlying statute this Court is not at liberty to go beyond the question
of the correctness of that construction and consider other
objections to the indictment. The Government's appeal
does not open the whole case.
First. The first two of these principles, as the Government concedes, preclude our review of the decision below
as to count three. For that count was held bad upon
the independent ground that it is defective as a pleading,
being duplicitous and also lacking in definiteness. United
States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 370, 397-399; United States v.

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

Carter, 231 U. S. 492, 493; United States v. Hastings,
296 U. S. 188, 192-194. The appeal as to count three
must be dismissed.
Second. After a general description of the averments
of the indictment, which was explicitly founded on § 1
of the Sherman Act, the District Court construed counts
one, two and four as follows:
"Count 1 charges a conspiracy 'to arbitrarily fix, maintain and control artificial and non-competitive prices to
be Daid to all producers by_ ll distributors for all fluid
milk produced on approved dairy farms located in the
states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin', and
shipped to Chicago."
"Count 2 charges a conspiracy 'to fix and maintain by
common and concerted action, uniform, arbitrary and
non-competitive prices for the sale by the distributors in
the city of Chicago of fluid milk shipped into the said
city from the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and
Wisconsin.'"
"Count 4 charges a conspiracy 'to restrict, limit and
control and to restrain and obstruct the supply of fluid
milk moving in the channels of interstate commerce into
the city of Chicago from the states of Illinois, Indiana,
Michigan and Wisconsin.'"
The District Court further summarized the allegations
in these counts as to the methods by which the alleged
conspiracies were intended to be effected. 28 F. Supp.
pp. 179-181. This construction of the indictmenit is binding upon this Court on this appeal. United States v.
Patten, 226 U. S. 525, 535, 540; United States v. Colgate
& Co., 250 U. S. 300, 301; United States v. Schrader's
Son, 252 U. S. 85, 98; United States v. Yuginovich, 256
U. S.450, 461; United States v. Hastings, supra, p. 192:
Third. The District Court, thus construing counts one,
two and four, held as a matter of substance that, because

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN CO.
188

195

Opinion of the Court.

of the effect of the later statutes, these counts did not
charge an offense under § 1 of the Sherman Act. This
was necessarily a construction of the Sherman Act.
United States v. Patten, supra; United States v. Birdsall,
233 U. S. 223, 230; United States v. Kapp, 302 U. S.
214, 217. We are not impressed with the argument that
the court simply construed the later statutes. The effect
of those statutes was considered in determining whether
the Sherman Act has been so modified and limited that
it no longer applies to such combinations and conspiracies
as are charged in counts one, two and four. Thus the
Sherman Act was not the less construed because it was
construed in the light of the subsequent legislation.
We have jurisdiction under the Criminal Appeals Act
to determine whether the construction thus placed upon
the Sherman Act is correct.
Fourth. In reaching its conclusion, the District Court
referred to § 6 of the Clayton Act, §§ I and 2 of the
Capper-Volstead Act, and the Agricultural Adjustment
Act of 1933, as amended in 1935, and as reenacted and
amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
of 1937.
With respect to the Clayton Act,' the court said in
its opinion: "By that act labor, agricultural or horticultural cooperative organizations were excepted from the
'Section 6 of the Clayton Act (38 Stat. 730, 15 U. S. C. 17)
provides:
"The labor of a human being is not a commodity or article of commerce. Nothing contained in the antitrust laws shall be construed to
forbid the existence and operation of labor, agricultural, or horticultural organizations, instituted for the purposes of mutual help, and
not having capital stock or conducted for profit, or to forbid or restrain
individual members of such organizations from lawfully carrying out
the legitimate objects thereof; nor shall such organizations, or the
members thereof,, be held or construed to be illegal combinations or
conspiracies in restraint of trade, under the antitrust laws."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

broad and'sweeping terms of the Sherman Act. Such
cooperative organizations, in and of themselves, were
not to be .construed as illegal combinations or conspiracies
in restraint of trade under the anti-trust laws." 28 F.
Supp. 183. But the court did not hold that, by these
provisions of the Clayton Act, either the defendants
Pure Milk, Association and its officers and agents or the
defendants Milk Wagon Drivers Union, Local 753, and
its officials, (albeit these organizations were not in themselves illegal combinations or conspiracies) were rendered
immune from prosecution under the Sherman Act for
.their alleged participation in the combinations and conspiracies charged in counts one, two and four of the
indictment. The Sherman Act was not construed by the
District Court as having been limited to that extent by
the Clayton Act.
The court invoked the Capper-Volstead Act,8 as its
judgment shows, only in relation to certain defendants,
that is, the Pure Milk Association, an agricultural cooperative oganization, and its officers and agents. We
shall consider later the effect of that statute upon the
charge against those defendants.
The court dismissed the indictment as to all defendants, and we think it manifest that this ruling in its
bearing upon counts one, two and four was due to the
effect upon the Sherman Act which the court attributed
to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act.4
(1). As to that Act, the court said:
"The Court holds that, by the Agricultural Marketing
Agreement Act the Congress has committed to the Execu'42 Stat. 388, 7 U. S. C. 291, 292.
The District Court referred, in passing, to the Cooperative Marketing Act of July 2, 1926 (44 Stat. 803, 7 U. S. C. 455), and to the
provisions of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933 (48 Stat. 31),
as amended in 1935 (49 Stat. 750), which was followed by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (50 Stat. 246).

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

t ive Department, acting through the Secretary of Agriculture, full, complete and plenary power over the production and marketing, in interstate commerce, of agricultural products, including milk.
"To what extent he should act, the. quantum of regulation, is solely one for his judgment and decision. If conditions require, he.must act; if they do not require action,
then all marketing conditions are deemed satisfactory
and the purpose of the act is effectuated. Non-action by
the Secretary of Agriculture, in any given marketing area,
is equivalent to a declaration that the policy of the act,
in that area, is being carried out. If the policy of the
act, in any given milk area, is being violated it becomes
the duty of the Secretary of Agriculture to intervene and
invoke the powers conferred upon him by the act.
"It results, from what has been said, that the power
of regulation' supervision and control of the milk industry, in any given milk shed, is, by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, vested exclusively in the
Secretary of Agriculture. It follows further that the
Secretary of Agriculture cannot by his own action, or
inaction, divest himself of this power so long as the
statute remains in force. The marketing of the agricultural products, including milk, covered by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act, is removed from the
purview of the Sherman Act. In other words, so far as
the marketing of agricultural commodities, including
milk, is concerned, no indictment will lie under section
1 of the Sherman Act." 28 F..Supp. p.*187.
It will be observed that the District Court attributes
this effect to the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
per se, that is, to its operation in the absence, and without regard to the scope and particular effect, of any marketing agreements made by the Secretary of Agriculture
or of any orders issued by him pursuant to the Act. In
the opinion of the court below, the existence of the au-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

thority vested in the Secretary of Agriculture, although
unexercised, wholly destroys the operation of § 1 of the
Sherman Act with respect to the marketing of agricultural commodities.
We are of the opinion that this conclusion is erroneous.
No provision of that purport appears in the Agricultural
Act. While effect is expressly given, as we shall see, to
agreements and orders which may validly be made by the
Secretary of Agriculture, there is no suggestion that in
their absence, and apart from such qualified authorization and such requirements as they contain, the commerce in agricultural commodities is stripped of the safeguards set up by the Anti-Trust Act and is left open to
the restraints, however unreasonable, which conspiring
producers, distributors and their allies may see fit to impose. We are unable to find that such a grant of immunity by virtue of the inaction, or limited action, of the
Secretary has any place in the statutory plan. We cannot believe that Congress intended to create "so great a
breach in historic remedies and sanctions."
It is a cardinal principle of construction that repeals
by implication are not favored. When there are two acts
upon the same subject, the rule is to give effect to both
if possible. United States v. Tynen, 11 Wall. 88, 92;
Henderson's Tobacco, 11 Wall. 652, 657; General Motors
Acceptance Corp. v. United States, 286 U. S. 49, 61, 62.
The intention of the legislature to repeal "must be clear
and manifest." Red Rock v. Henry, 106 U. S. 596, 601,
602. It is not sufficient, as was said by Mr. Justice Story
in Wood v. United States, 16 Pet. 342, 362, 363, "to
establish that subsequent laws eaver some or even all of
the cases provided for by [the prior act]; for they may be
merely affirmative, t- cumulative, or auxiliary.," There
. See General a',otors Acceptance Corp v. United States, 286 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

must be "a positive repugnancy between the provisions
of the new law, and those of the old; and even then the
old law is repealed by implication only pro tanto to the
extent of the repugnancy." See, also, Posados v. National City Bank, 296 U. S.497, 504.
The Sherman Act is a btoad enactment prohibiting unreasonable restraints upon interstate commerce, and
monopolization or attempts to monopolize, with penal
sanctions. The Agricultural Act is a limited statute with
specific reference to particular transactions which may
be regulated by official action in a prescribed manner.
The Agricultural Act I declares it to be the policy of Congress "through the exercise of the powers conferred upon
the Secretary of Agriculture under this chapter, to establish and maintain such orderly marketing conditions for
agricultural commodities in interstate commerce as will
establish prices to farmers at a level that will give agricultural commodities a purchasing power with respect to
articles that farmers buy, equivalent to the purchasing
power of agricultural commodities in the base period"
described. To carry out that policy a particular plan is
set forth. Farmers and others are not permitted to resort
to their own devices and to make any agreements or
arrangements they desire, regardless of the restraints
which may be inflicted upon commerce. The statutory
program to be followed under the Agricultural Act requires the participation' of the Secretary of Agriculture
who is to hold hearings and make findings. The obvious
intention is to provide for what may be found to be reasonable arrangements in particular instances and in the
light of the circumstances disclosed. The methods which,
the Agricultural Act permits to attain that result are
twofold, marketing agreements and orders. To give validity to marketing agreements the Secretary must be an
'7 U. S.C.Supp. IV, 602 (1).

20o

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

actual party to the agreements. § 8b.7 The orders are
also to be made by the Secretary for. the purpose of regulating the handling of the agricultural commodity to which
the particular order relates. § 8c (3) (4).8 That the field
covered by the Agricultural Act is not coterminous with
that covered by the Sherman Act is "Manifestfrom the fact
that the former is thus delimited by the prescribed action
participated in and directed by an officer of government
proceeding under the authority specifically conferred by
Congress. As to agreements and arrangements not thus
agreed upon or directed by the Secretary, the Agricultural
Act in no way impinges upon the prohibitions and penalties of the Sherman Act, and its condemnation of private
:ction in entering into combinations and conspiracies
'which impose the prohibited restraint upon interstate
commerce remains untouched.
It is not necessary to labor the point, for the Agricultural Act itself expressly defines the extent to which its
provisions make the antitrust laws inapplicable. That
definition is found in § 8 (b)' of the Agricultural Adjustment Act carried into the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act in relation to marketing agreements, and
provides as follows:
"In order to effectuate the declared policy of this chapter, the Secretary of Agriculture shall have the power,
after due notice and opportunity for hearing, to enter into
marketing agreements with processors, producers, associations of producers, and others engaged in the handling
of any agricultural commodity or product thereof, only
with respect to such handling as is in the current of interstate I or foreign commerce or which directly burdens,
ostructs, or affects, interstate or foreign commerce in
'7 U. S. C. Supp. IV, § 608b.
8

7 U. S. C. Supp. IV, § 608c (3) (4).

97

U. S. C. Supp. IV, § 608b.

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

such commodity or product thereof. The making of any
such agreement shall not be held to be in violation of
any of the antitrust laws of the United States, and any
such agreement shall be deemed to be lawful: Provided,
That no such agreement shall remain in force after the
termination of this chapter."
Another provision is found in § 3 (d)' 0 of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act, relating to awards or
agreements resulting from the arbitration or mediation
by the Secretary of Agriculture or by a designated officer
or employee of the Department of Agriculture as provided in § 3 (a)," and meetings for that purpose and
awards or agreements resulting therefrom which have
been approved by the Secretary of Agriculture as provided in § 3 (b)." Section 3 (d) provides:
"No meeting so held and no award or agreement so
approved shall be deemed to be in violation of any of
the antitrust laws of the United States."
These explicit provisions requiring official participation and authorizations show beyond question how far
Congress intended that the Agricultural Act should operate to render the Sherman Act inapplicable." If Congress had desired to grant any further immunity, Congress
doubtless would have said so.
An agreement made with the Secretary as a party, or
an order made by him, or an arbitration award.or agreement approved by him, pursuant to the authority conferred by the Agricultural Act and within the terms of
the described immunity, would of course be a defense to
a prosecution under the Sherman Act-to the extent that
the prosecution sought to penalize what was thus validly
1e50 Stat. 249.
50 Stat. 248.
"50 Stat. 248.
"See 77 Cong. Rec., Pt. II, p. 1977; Pt. III, p. 3117.

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

agreed upon or directed by the Secretary. Further than
that the Agricultural Act does not go.
We have no occasion to decide whether in any particular case an indictment under the Sherman Act by reason
of its particular terms would be subject to demurrer, or
to a motion to quash, upon the ground that the indictment ran against the provisions of such an agreement or
order. We have no such situation here. There is indeed a contention that there was a license (No. 30) issued
by the Secretary of Agriculture in 1934, amended in
January 1935, and in force until March 2, 1935, which
related to the marketing of milk in the Chicago area, and
hence that defendants operating under that license were
not subject to the charges of the conspiracies alleged to
have begun in January, 1935. But the allegations of the
indictment are that the unlawful conspiracies continued
throughout all the period mentioned in the indictment,
that is, up to the time of its presentment in November,
1938. This clearly imports that the conspiracies were
operative after the license came to an end and thus in
the absence of any license. A conspiracy thus continued
is in effect renewed during each day of its continuance.
United States v. Kissel, 218 U. S. 601, 607, 608; Hyde
v. United States, 225 U. S. 347, 369; Brown v. Elliott, 225
U. S. 392, 400. It is also said that there is a recent
marketing order under date of August 29, 1939," which
relates to the Chicago marketing area, and hence that this
cause is moot. But that order affects a period. subsequent
to the time covered by the indictment. These contentions are unavailing in relation to the question before us.
Our conclusion is that the Agricultural Adjustment
Act as reenacted and amended by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act affords no ground for construing
*1,Federal Register August 30, 1939, Order-No. 41, Vol. 4, pp. 37643768; 3770.

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN CO.
188

203

Opinion of the Court.

the Sherman Act as inapplicable to the charges contained
in counts one, two and four.
(2) There remains the question whether the court
below rightly held that the Capper-Volstead Act "' had
modified the Sherman Act so as to exempt- the Pure Milk
Association, a coperative agricultural organization, and
its officers and agents, from prosecution under these
counts.
As to the Capper-Volstead Act the court said:
"This Act legalizes price fixing for those within its purview. To that extent it modifies the Sherman Act. It
removes from the Sherman Act those organizations, cooperative in their nature, which come within the purview
of the Capper-Volstead Act. Prior to the Capper-Volstead Act farmers were treated no differently than b.hers
under the antitrust laws, so far as price fixing wasconcerned ...
"The Capper-Volstead Act does not condemn any :kind
of monopoly or restraint of trade, or any price fixing,
unless such monopoly or price fixing unduly enhinces
the price of an agricultural product. The Act thei, by
section 2 thereof, commits to an officer of the execlitive
department, the Secretary of Agriculture, the power of
regulation and visitation.
"Under this act farmers are favored under the antitrust
laws in that they are given a qualified right, free from
any criminal liability, to combine among themselves to
monopolize and restrain interstate trade and commirce in
farm products and to fix and enhance the price thereof.
" . . . The court deduces from the Capper-Volstead
Act that the Secretary of Agriculture has exclusive! jurisdiction to determine and order, in the first instance,
whether or not farmer cooperatives, in their operatiov,
monopolize and restrain interstate trade and commerce
42 Stat. 388, 7 U. S. C. 291, 292.

,OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

204

Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

'to such an extent that the price of any agricultural product is unduly enhanced'. Until the Secretary of Agriculture acts, the judicial power cannot be invoked." 28
F. Supp., pp. 183, 184.
We are unable to accept that view. We cannot find
in the Capper-Volstead Act, any more than in the Agricultural Act, an intention to declare immunity for the
combinations and conspiracies charged in the present indictment. Section 6 of the Clayton Act, enacted in
1914,18 had authorized the formation and operation of

agricultural organizations provided they did not have
capital 'stock or were conducted for profit, and it was
there provided that the antitrust laws should not be construed to forbid members of such organizations "from
lawfully carrying out the legitimate objects thereof."
They were not to be held illegal combinations. The
Capper-Volstead Act, enacted in 1922,11 was made applicable as well to co6peratives having capital stock. The
persons to whom the Capper-Volstead Act applies are
defined in § 1 as producers of agricultural products, "as
farmers, planters, ranchmen, dairymen, nut or fruit
growers." They are authorized to act together "in collectively processing, preparing for market, handling, and
marketing in interstate and foreign commerce" their products. They may have "marketing agencies in common,"
and they may make "the necessary contracts and agreements to effect such purposes."
The right of these agricultural producers thus to unite
in preparing for market and in marketing their products,
and to make the contracts which are necessary for that
collaboration, cannot be deemed to authorize any combination gr conspiracy with other persons in restraint of
38 Stat. 731.
42 Stat. 388.

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN CO.
188

Opinion of the Court.

trade that these producers may see fit to devise. In this
instance, the conspiracy charged is not that of merely
forming a collective association of producers to market
their products but a conspiracy, or conspiracies, with major distributors and their allied groups, with labor officials, municipal officials, and others, in order to maintain artificial and non-competitive prices to be paid to all
producers for all fluid milk produced in Illinois and neighboring States and marketed in the Chicago area, and thus
in effect, as the indictment is construed by the court .below, "to compel independent distributors to exact a like
price from their customers" and also to control "the supply of fluid milk permitted to be brought to Chicago."
28 F. Supp. 180-182. Such a combined attempt of all
the defendants, producers, distributors and their allies , to
control the market finds no justification in § 1 of the
Capper-Volstead Act.
Nor does the court below derive its limitation of the
Sherman Act from § 1. The pith of the court's conclusion is that under § 2 an exclusive jurisdiction with
respect to the described coperative associations is
vested, in the first instance,, in the Secretary of Agriculture, and that, until the Secretary acts, the judicial power
to entertain a prosecution under the Sherman Act cannot
be invoked. Section 2 of the Capper-Volstead Act does
provide a special procedure in a case where the Secretary
of Agriculture has reason to believe that any such association "monopolizes" or restrains interstate trade "to
such an extent that the price of any agricultural product
is unduly enhanced." Thereupon the Secretary is to
serve upon the association a complaint, stating his charge
with notice of hearing. And if upon such hearing the
Secretary is of the opinion that the association "monopolizes," or does restrain interstate trade to the extent
above mentioned, he then is to issue an order directing

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the association "to cease and desist" therefrom. Provision is made for judicial review.
We find no ground for saying that this limited procedure is a substitute for the provisions of the Shermian
Act, or has the result of permitting the sort of combina'tions and conspiracies here charged unless or until the
Secretary of Agriculture takes action. That this provision of the Capper-Volstead Act does not cover the entire
field of the Sherman Act is sufficiently clear. The Sherm
Act authorizes criminal prosecutcons and penalties.
The Capper-Volstead Act provides only for a civil proceeding. The Sherman Act hits at attempts to monopolize as well as actual monopolization. And § 2 of the
Capper-Volstead Act contains no. provision giving immunity from the Sherman Act in the absence of a proceeding by the Secretary. We think that the procedure
under § 2 of the. Capper-Volstead Act is auxiliary and
wvs intended merely as a qualification of the authorization given to co6perative agricultural producers by § 1,
so that if the collective action of such producers, as there
permitted, results in the opinion of the Secretary in monopolization or unduly enhanced prices, he may intervene and seek to control the action thus taken under § 1.
But, as § 1 cannot be regarded as authorizing the sort
of conspiracies between producers and others that are
charged in this indictment, the qualifying procedure for
which § 2 provides is not to be deemed to be designed
to take the place of, "or to postpone or prevent, prosecution under § 1 of the Sherman Act for the purpose of
punishing such conspiracies.
Fifth. Having dealt with the construction placed by
the court below upon the Sherman Act, our jurisdiction
on this appeal is exhausted. We are not at liberty to
consider other objections to the indictment or questions
which may arise upon the trial with respect to the merits

UNITED STATES v. BQRDEN CO.
188

207

Opinion of the Court.

of the cl~arge. For it is well settled that where the District Court has based its decision on a particular construction of the underlying statute, the review here under the.
Criminal Appeals Act is confined to the question of the
propriety of that construction. United States v. Keitel,
supra; United States v. Kissel, supra, p. 606; United
States v. Miller, 223 U. S. 599, 602; United States v. Carter, supra; United States v. Colgate & Co., supra; United
States v. Schrader's Son, supra; United States v. Hastings, supra. The case of United States v. Curtiss-Wright
Corporation, 299 U. S. 304, is not opposed, as there the
decision of the District Court was not based upon -a particular construction of the underlying statute, but upon
its invalidity, and the jurisdiction of this Court extended
to the consideration of the rulings of the District Court
which dealt with that question.
The limitation applicable in the instant case to the
question of the District Court's construction of the Sherman Act disposes of the contention urgedby some of the
defendants that counts two and four do not show such
a direct restraint upon interstate commerce as to bri,.g
the acts charged within the statute. The District Court
said in its opinion that, in view of its rulings (above discussed) as to counts one, two and four, it was unnecessary
to decide "whether or not the allegations of the indictment show that interstate commerce was or was not
restrained." 28 F. Supp., p. 187. In its judgment the
court formally overruled all objections- to these counts
so far as the objections rested on the ground that interstate commerce was not involved. If these rulings be
treated as dealing merely with the construction of the
indictment, they must be accepted here. United States
v. Pattein, supra; United States v. Colgate & Co., supra;
United States v. Hastings, supra. But, apart from that,
the District Court certainly has not construed the Sher-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

208

Statement of the Case.

308 U. S.

man Act as inapplicable upon the ground that interstate
commerce is not involved, and the question of the bearing
upon that commerce of the acts charged is not before us.
Similarly, the contention of the defendants who are
labor officials that the Sherman Act does not apply to
labor unions or labor union activities is not open on this
appeal. The District Court did not construe the Sherman
Act as inapplicable to these defendants and the Government's appeal, under the restriction of the Criminal Appeals Act, does not present that question.
The appeal as to count three is dismissed. The judgment is reversed as to counts one, two and four, and the
cause is remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
CITIES SERVICE OIL CO. v. DUNLAP ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 28. Argued November 8, 9, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.
A local rule of law, established by decisions of the state court, which,
on an issue of bona fide purchase without notice for value, rests
the burdeh of proof upon him who attacks the legal title and
asserts a superior equity, must be followed by the federal court in
a suit to quiet title brought by the legal owner of record. P. 210.
This is not a matter of practice in courts of equity but a matter of substantial right-a valuable assurance in favor of the legal
title.
:,J F. 2d 294; 101 id. 314, ieversed.

CERTIORARI,

307 U. S. 617, to review the affirmance of

a decree of the District Court in favor of the respondents
in a suit by the petitioner to quiet its title to a piece of
land.

