62

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. GLENN L. MARTIN CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 30. Argued October 19, 20, 1939.-Decided November 6, 1939.
1. A contract for sale to the United States of aircraft and aircraft
material, contained a provision that the stipulated prices included
"any federal tax heretofore imposed by the Congress which is
applicable to the material called for" by the contract, and a provision requiring additional compensation to the seller in the event
of imposition by Congress subsequent to the date of the contract
of any taxes which should be "made applicable directly upon production, manufacture, or sale of the supplies called for herein and
are paid by the contractor on the articles or supplies herein contracted

for

. .

." Hed, that

federal

Soaial

Security

taxes

(subsequently imposed by Congress) were not taxes of such character as required additional compensation to the seller under the
terms of the contract. P. 64.
2. It is unnecessary in this case to consider whether a tax paid under
a state unemployment compensation statute is a tax "imposed
by Congress.". P. 66.
100 F. 2d 793, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

307 U. S. 618, to review the reversal of a

judgment in favor of the United States in an action
against it on a contract, 23 F. Supp. 262.
Assistant Attorney General Clark, with whom Solicitor
General Jackson and Messrs. Sewall Key and Joseph M.
Jones were on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. John T. Koehler for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE BLAcK delivered the opinion of the Court.
We must determine whether a contract to purchase
certain aircraft and aircraft material from respondent
required the United States to increase the stipulated

U. S. v. GLENN L. MARTIN CO.
Opinion of the Court.

62

price by the amount of Social Security taxes paid by
respondent.
June 28, 1934, the War Department and respondent, a
Maryland manufacturer, made the contract, providing-"It is expressly understood and agreed to by and between the parties hereto that the prices herein stipulated
include any Federal Tax heretofore imposed by the Congress which is applicable to the material called for under
the terms of this contract. If any sales tax, processing
tax, adjustment charge, or other taxes or charges are
imposed or changed by the Congress subsequent to the
date of this contract and made applicable directly upon
production, manufacture, or sale of the supplies called
for herein and are paid by the Contractor on the articles
or supplies herein contracted for then the price herein
stipulated will be increased or decreased accordingly and
any amount due the Contractor as result of such change
will be charged to the Government and entered on
vouchers as separate items."
With respect to payrolls of employees alleged to have
been engaged in fulfilling this contract during 1936 and
1937, respondent paid $794.03 in Federal Social Security
taxes and $6,943.29 under the State of Maryland's Unemployment Compensation Law. Both the federal tax
and Maryland's tax were levied "subsequent to the date
of this contract." Respondent claims that both the
Maryland Unemployment Compensation taxes 1 and the
federal Social Security taxes2 were "imposed ...
by
. . . Congress" and were of the type for which the contract provided extra compensation.
Rejecting respondent's construction of the contract,
the District Courtheld that no part of the taxes paid by
respondent served to increase the liability of the Govern'Laws of Maryland, extraordinary session, Dec. 1936, c. 1.
'49 Stat. 620, 637.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

ment on its contract.' The Circuit Court of Appeals
reversed ' and we granted certiorari.'
Obviously, the seller fixed its stipulated prices so as to
provide a margin of profit over federal taxes for which
it might at the time of the contract be responsible on
the particular "material" sold. This clearly appears
from the governing provision's opening declaration that
"the prices herein stipulated include any Federal tax
heretofore imposed by Congress which is applicable to
the material called for under the terms of this contract."
But, without more, future increases in federal taxes
"applicable to the material" might have substantially
affected the margin of profit which the contract was
calculated to insure. Against the contingency of increase
in federal taxes applicable to the "material" purchased,
the Government undertook to compensate the seller for
payment of future federal taxes "on the articles or supplies contracted for" should Congress levy any sales tax,
processing tax or other tax "applicable directly upon
production, manufacture or sale of the articles . . . contracted for . . ."

But the Social Security Act' imposes upon every employer "an excise tax with respect to having individuals
'23 F. Supp. 262.

'100 F. 2d 793.
*307 U. S. 618. The government's petition for certiorari set out
that "Almost all government contracts since 1933 have contained provisions either identical with that here involved, or so similar as to
present substantially the same question. . . . The War Department
alone .. .states that approximately 4,000 potential claims may arise

under contracts with language identical with that in ...the contract
in this case." The Comptroller General of the United States has interpreted a contract substantially identical with the one under consideration as denying reimbursement for Social Security taxes. 16 Comp.
Gen. 790 (1937). Certiorari was granted in order to obtain a fin-,
determination of the question.
( Social Security Act, c. 531, 49 Stat. 620, §§ 804, 210 (b).

U. S. v. GLENN L. MARTIN CO.
62

Opinion of the Court.

in his employ." And employment in that Act "means
any service, of whatever nature, performed within the
United States by an employee for an employer . . . "
with exceptions not material here. This excise has been
represented as one levied "upon the relation of employment" ' and upon "the right to employ" 8 and as a payroll
tax.9 It is not-as taxes upon the privilege of selling,
manufacturing or processing characteristically aremeasured by the value of the privilege taxed, or by either
quantity or price of what is manufactured, processed or
sold. A tax on the processing or sale of an article, while
an excise, commonly would be denoted a tax "on" the
article processed or sold. The contract itself speaks of
,such taxes which may, in the future, be "paid by the
contractor on the articles or supplies contracted for."
(Ital. supp.) Thus, this contract was concerned with
federal taxes "on" the goods to be provided under it,
whatever the occasion for the taxes. And a tax "on"
the relationship of employer-employee--characterized as
a tax on payrolls-is not of the type treated by the contract as a tax "on" the goods or articles sold.
The contract refers only to federal taxes, existing or
future, on "material," "articles" or "supplies." And
additional compensation is provided to offset only federal
taxes of the type of sales taxes and processing taxes,
"applicable directly upon production, manufacture, or
sale" and actually paid on supplies delivered to the Government. Since a tax on payrolls, or on the relationship
of employment, is not-but in fact is distinct from-the
type of tax "on" articles represented by sales taxes and
processing taxes, respondent is not entitled to the additional compensation which it seeks.
Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 548, 578.
'See, Carmichaelv. Southern Coal Co., 301 U. S. 495, 508.
9
id., 506, 511.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

In view of our determination that the federal Social
Security tax was not contemplated by the contract, we
need not discuss respondent's contention that the tax
paid under the Maryland Unemployment Compensation
Act was a tax "imposed . . . by . . . Congress."

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
and decision of this case.

TREINIES v. SUNSHINE MINING*CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 4. Argued October 10, 1939.-Decided November 6, 1939.
1. This Court inquires sua sponte into the question of the federal
court's jurisdiction of this case under the Interpleader Act of
January 20, 1936, since its own jurisdiction is affected thereby.
P. 70.
2. A bill interpleading one group of claimants, all of whom are citizens
of the same State, and another group claiming adversely, all of
whom are citizens of another State, of which la'ter State the
complainant himself is a citizen, satisfies the requirements of the
Interpleader Act as to diversity of citizenship, since the Act requires diversity only as between the claimants. P. 70.
3. Art. III, § 2 of the Federal Constitution, extending the judicial
power of tfie United States to controversies "between citizens of
different States," is broad enough to authorize the granting of
jurisdiction to the federal court in such a case of interpleader
P. 71.
4. The Eleventh Amendment is not infringed by joinder of a state
court judge and a state court. receiver as defendants in an interpleader proceeding in the federal court, in which proceeding the
State has no interest and neither the judge nor the receiver is
enjoined by the final decree. P, 74,

