OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

106

Syllabus.

308 U. S.

development expenditures in applying the 50 per cent
limitation on depletion allowance (36 B. T. A. 1327) and
the Circuit Court of Appeals reversed (102 F. 2d 596).
Since we have this day decided in Helvering v. Wilshire
Oil Co., supra, that comparable regulations under the
1928 Act were lawful, a fortiori those here involved are
valid and binding on petitioner. The judgment of the
court below was therefore right and is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

and MR. JUSTICE REED took no

part in the consideration or disposition of this case.

CASE

ET AL.

v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER PRODUCTS
CO., LTD.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 23 *and 24. Argued October 18, 1939.-Decided
November 6, 1939.
1. The question whether a plan -of reorganization is "fair and
equitable" within the meaning of § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act is
a question of law. P. 114.
2. Where a plan of reorganization'is not fair and equitable as a matter
of law, it can not be approved by the court even though the
percentage of the various classes of security holders required by
§ 77B (f) for confirmation of a plan has consented. Id.
3. The fact that a great majority of the security holders have approved the plan is not the test of whether the plan is a fair and
equitable one. Id.
4. Under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, as in equity reorganizations,
the court must use its own informed and independent judgment in
every important determination in the administration of the
proceedings. 'P.115.
5. Where words are employed in an Act which had at the tim'e a
well known meaning in the law, they are used in that sense unless
the context requires the contrary. Id.
6. It is a fixed principle, governing under § 77B of the Bankruptcy
Act as well as in eauitv reorganizations, that, to the extent of their

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

107

Syllabus.

debts, creditors are entitled to absolute priority over stockholders
against all the property of an insolvent corporation, relative priority not being sufficient. P. 115.
7. To accord the creditor his full or absolute priority against the
corporate assets where the debtor is insolvent, the stockholder's
participation must be based on a contribution in money or in
money's worth, reasonably equivalent to the participation
accorded the stockholder. Pp.
115-122,
8. The amount owed bondholders by an insolvent corporation was
more than four-fold the value of its assets. A plan of reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act gave to the old stockholders
23 per cent. of the assets and voting power in a new company
without requiring of them any fresh contribution of capital, held
not "fair and reasonable." P. 122.
Such participation by the old stockholders can not be justified:
(1) upon the ground that some of them possess a financial standing and influence and can provide a continuity of management
beneficial to the bondholders (p. 122); or
(2) upon the ground that if the bondholders were to foreclose
presently they would receive substantially less than the appraised
assets (p. 123); or
(3) upon the ground that the virtual abrogation by the Plan
of an earlier agreement deferring foreclosure gave to the bondholders a valuable consideration justifying participation by the
stockholders in the reorganization (p. 124) ; or
(4) upon the ground that the bondholders will be aided by
maintaining the debtor as a going concern and avoiding litigation
with the old *stockholders. P. 129.
9. An insolvent corporation, by invoking the jurisdiction of the District Court under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, necessarily waives
its right to remain in unmolested dominion and control over the
corporate property; and consequently a purported surrender, in its
plan of reorganization, of its right, under an earlier agreement,
to postpone the date when the mortgage securing its bonds could be
foreclosed, furnishes no consideration for participation by stockholders of the corporation in the assets and management of the
new one to be formed. P. 124.
10. In determining whether a plan of reorganization presented by an
insolvent corporation under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act is "fair
and equitable," to minority bondholders, the fact that it was
previously agreed to. by the requisite majorities of security holders
does not give it the force of a contract binding on the court. P. 125.

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

11. In proceedings under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, compromise
of claims is allowable in fitting circumstances; but the District

Court is not to be influenced to approve or disapprove a plan of
reorganization by threats of litigation on the part of stockholders.
P. 129.
12. The criteria for exclusion or inclusion of old stockholders in a
reorganization under § 77B are the same whether the petition be
voluntary or involuntary. P. 131.
13. Failure to accept a plan proposed does not force dismissal or
liquidation. Under § 77B (c) (8), the District Court may allow
time for proposal of a new plan where it does not appear that one
which is fair and equitable and in accordance with the Act can not
be adopted, nor that all reasonable time for proposal of such
alternative plan has expired. P. 131.
100 F. 2d 963, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

307 U. S. 619, to review the affirmance of

decrees of the District Court confirming a corporate
debtor's amended plan of reorganization under § 77B of
the Bankruptcy Act. 27 F. Supp. 501.
Mr. Robert M. Clarke, with whom Mr. Thomas K.
Case, in propriapersona,was on the brief, for petitioners.
By special leave of Court, Solicitor General Jackson,
with whom Messrs. Warner W. Gardner, Robert K. McConnaughey, Daniel W. Knowlton, Chester T. Lane,
Samuel H. Levy, and Homer Kripke were on the brief,
for the United States, as amicus curiae, urging reversal.
Messrs. J. Clifford Argue and John C. Macfarland,
with whom Messrs. David R. Faries, H. D. Crotty, and
Woodward "M. Taylor were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These cases' present the question of the conditions
under which stockholders may participate in a plan
'One involves an interlocutory order and the other a final order
confirming a plan of reorganization under .§ 77B of the Bankruptcy
Act.

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

109

Opinion of the Court.

of reorganization under § 77B (48 Stat. 912) of the Bankruptcy Act where the debtor corporation is insolvent both
in the equity and in the bankruptcy sense. Because of
the contrariety of tendencies in practical administration
of the Act among the circuits as illustrated by the differences between the holding below (100 F. 2d 963) and
that in In re Barclay Park Corp., 90 F. 2d 595, we granted
certiorari.
The debtor is a holding company owning all of the
outstanding shares of the capital stock (except for certain qualifying shares held by directors) of six subsidiaries. Three of these have no assets of value to the
debtor. Two have assets of little value. The debtor's
principal asset consists of the stock of Los Angeles Shipbuilding and Drydock Corporation which is engaged in
shipbuilding and ship repair work in California. This
subsidiary has fixed assets of $430,000 and current assets
of approximately $400,000. This subsidiary has only
current debts of a small amount, not affected by the plan.
The debtor's assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries
aggregate less than $10,000.
The debtor's liabilities I consist of principal and interest of $3,807,071.88 on first lien mortgage bonds issued
in 1924 and maturing in 1944, secured by a trust indenture covering the fixed assets of Los Angeles Shipbuilding
and Drydock Corporation (one of the subsidiaries) and
the capital stock of all of the subsidiaries. No interest
has been paid on these bonds since February 1, 1929. In
1930, as a consequence of the financial embarrassment
of the debtor, a so-called voluntary reorganization was
effected. To that end, a supplement to this trust indenture was executed, pursuant to a provision therein,
with the consent of about 97% of the face value of all
' Other liabilities, not material here, are $6,075.94 of current accounts payable and $496,899.76 due the Los Angeles Shipbuilding and
Drydock Corporation.

OCTORER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the outstanding bonds, which reduced the intere=t from
7 % to 6% and made the interest payable only if
earned. At the same time the old stock of the debtor,
was wiped out by assessment and new stock issued,
divided into Class A and Class B, with equal voting
rights. Class A stock was issued to some of the old
stockholders who contributed $400,000 new money which
was turned over to the Los Angeles Shipbuilding and
Drydock Corporation and used by it as working capital.
In consideration of this contribution the bondholders who
agreed to the modification of the indenture likewise released the stockholders' liability under California law in
favor of these contributors. Some Class B stock was
issued to bondholders in payment of unpaid interest
ccupons.' At present there are outstanding 57,788 shares
of Class A stock and 5,112 shares of Class B stock.
In 1937 the management prepared a plan of reorganization to which over 80% of the bondholders and over
90% of the stock assented. This plan of reorganization,
as we shall discuss hereafter, provided for its consummation either on the basis of contract or in a § 77B proceeding, such election to be made by the board of directors. In January 1938 the directors chose the latter
course and the debtor corporation filed a petition for
reorganization under § 77B of the Bankruptcy Act, with
the plan attached and reciting, inter alia, that the required percentage of security holders had consented to it.
This plan is filed was later modified by the debtor, as
we point out later, in a manner not deemed by us ma'A large block of Class B stock was escrowed under a management
contract with one Armes to be delivered to him when all the bonds
were retired and the Class A stockholders were paid back their $400,000
plus interest in the form of dividetids. But this management contract
was later terminated and the escrowed Class B stock was returned to
the debtor-and cancelled. Class A stock was prelerred to Class B in
the event of liquidation to the amount of $400,000 and interest.

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

111

Opinion of the Court.

terial to the issues here involved. That plan as modified
provides for the formation of a new corporation, which
will acquire the assets of Los Angeles Shipbuilding and
Drydock Corporation, 4 and which will have a capital
structure of 1,000,000 shares of authorized $1 par value
voting stock. This stock is divided into 811,375 shares
of preferred and 188,625 shares of common. The preferred stock will be entitled to a 5% non-cumulative
dividend, after which the Common stock will be entitled
to a similar dividend. Thereafter all shares of both classes
will participate equally in dividends. The preferred
stock will receive on liquidation a preference to the
amount of its par value. Thereupon the common will
receive a similar preference. Thereafter all shares of
both classes participate equally.
170,000 shares of preferred are reserved for sale to
raise money for rehabilitation of the yards.5 641,375
shares of the preferred are to be issued to the bondholders, 250 shares to be exchanged for each $1000 bond.
The Class A stockholders will receive the 188,625 shares
of common stock, without the payment of any subscription or assessment. No provision is made for the old
Class B stock. The aggregate par value of tl4 total
preferred and common stock to be issued to existing security holders is $830,000-an amount which equals the
going concern value of the assets of the enterprise.
The plan was assented to by approximately 92.81%
of the face amount of the bonds, 99.75% of the Class A
'The assets of the debtor, except the capital stock of two subsidiaries which have assets of some, though slight, value will also be transferred to the new company. The assets of these two subsidiaries will
be liquidated and the proceeds distributed pro rata amoag bondholders. The assets of the other three subsidiaries will also apparently be
acquired by the new company.
' No underwriting of these funds is provided and no disclosure is
made as to how the additional funds are to be raised.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

stock, and 90% of the Class B stock. Petitioners own
$18,500 face amount of the bonds. They did not consent
to the so-called voluntary reorganization in 1930 whereby
the trust indenture was amended. And throughout the
present § 77B proceedings they appropriately objected
that the plan was not fair and equitable to bondholders.
The District Court found that the debtor was insolvent
both in the equity sense and in the bankruptcy sense.
The latfei finding was based upon "appraisal and audit
reports." In this connection the court found that the
total value of all assets of Los Angeles Shipbuilding and
Drydock Corporation was $830,000, those assets constituting practically all of the assets of the debtor and of
its various subsidiaries of any value to the estate. Yet
in spite of this finding, the court, in the orders flow under
review, confirmed the plan. And the court approved it
despite the fact that the old stockholders, who have no
equity in the assets of the enterprise, are given 23% of
the assets and voting power in the new company without
making any fresh contribution by way of subscription or
assessment. The court, however, justified inclusion of
the stockholders in the plan (1) because it apparently
felt that the relative priorities of the bondholders and
stockholders were maintained by virtue of the preferences
accorded the stock which the bondholders were to receive
and the fact that the stock going to the bondholders
carried 77% of the voting power of all the stock presently to b6 issued under the plan; and. (2) because it
was able to find that they had furnished the bondholders
certain "compensating advantages" or "consideration."
This so-called consideration was stated by the District
Court in substance as follows:
' 1. It will be an asset of value to the new company to
retain the old stockholders in the business because of
"their familiarity with the operation" of the business
and their "financial standing and influence in the corn-

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

113

Opinion of the Court.

munity"; and because they can provide a "continuity
of management."
2. If the bondholders were able to foreclose now and
liquidate the debtor's assets, they would receive "substantially less than the present appraised value" of the
assets.
3. By reason of the so-called voluntary reorganization
in 1930, the bondholders cannot foreclose until 1944, the
old stockholders having the right to manage and control
the debtor until that time. At least the bondholders
cannot now foreclose without "long and protracted litigation" which would be "expensive and of great injury"
to the debtor. Hence, the virtual abrogation of the agreement deferring foreclosure until 1944 was "the principal
valuable consideration" passing to the bondholders from
the old stockholders.
4. Bonding companies are unwilling to assume the
risk of becoming surety for the debtor or its principal
subsidiary "because of the outstanding bond issue." The
government's construction program will provide "valuable opportunities" to the debtor if it is prepared to
handle the business. Hence, the value to the bondholders
of maintaining the debtor "as a going concern, and of
avoiding litigation, is in excess of the value of the stock
being issued" to the old stockholders.
The Circuit Court of Appeals in affirming the decree
confirming the plan stated that it was not possible for
it to do other than accept these findings because of a
stipulation and the state of the record thereunder. That
stipulation provided for an abbreviated record and stated
that the dissenting bondholders intended "to raise questions of substantive law only." But it also specified as
errors, inter alia, the inclusion of stockholders in a plan
where they have no equity and the finding that the plan
was "fair" and "equitable." Thereby the stipulation
adequately reserved the question of law as to whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

on these facts the plan was fair and equitable within
the meaning of § 77B. But in any event a stipulation
does not foreclose legal questions. Swift & Co. v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 243 U. S. 281, 289.
On that question of law we think that the District
Court erred in confirming the plan and that the Circuit
Court of Appeals erred in affirming that decree. We
think that as a matter of law the plan was not fair and
equitable.
At the outset it should be stated that where a plan is
not fair and equitable as a matter of law it cannot be
approved by the court even though the percentage of the
various classes of security holders required by § 77B (f)
for confirmation of the plan has consented. It is clear
from a reading of § 77B (f)' that the Congress has required both that the required percentages of each class
of security holders approve the plan and that the plan
be found to be "fair and equitable." The former is not
a substitute for the latter. The court is not merely a
ministerial register of the Vote of the several classes of
security holders. All those interested in the estate are
entitled to the court's protection. Accordingly the fact
that the vast majority of the security holders have approved the plan is not the test of whether the plan is
a fair and equitable one. This is in line with the decision of this Court in Taylor v. Standard Gas & Electric
Co., 306 U. S. 307, which reversed an order approving a
plan of reorganization under § 77B, in spite of the fact
that the requisite percentage of the various classes of
It provides in part: "After hearing such objections as may be
made to the plan, the judge shall confirm the plan if satisfied that
(1) it is fair and equitable and does not discriminate unfairly in favor
of any class of creditors or stockholders, and is feasible; (2) it complies with the provisions of subdivision (b) of this section; (3) it ha.
been accepted as required by the provisions of subdivision (e), clause
(1) of this section; . . ."

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

115

Opinion of the Court.

security holders had approved it, on the ground that preferred stock of the debtor corporation was inequitably
treated under the plan. The contrary conclusion in such
cases would make the judicial determination on the issue
of fairness a mere formality and would effectively destroy
the function and the duty imposed by the Congress on the
district courts under § 77B. That function and duty are
no less here than they are in equity receivership reorganizations, where this Court said, "Every important
determination by the court in receivership proceedings
calls for an informed, independent judgment." National
Surety Co. v. Coriell, 289 U. S. 426, 436.
Hence, in this case the fact that 92.81% in amount of
the bonds, 99.75% of the Class A stock, and 90% of the
Class B stock have approved the plan is as immaterial on
the basic issue of its fairness as is the fact that petitioners
own only $18,500 face amount of a large bond issue.
The words "fair and equitable" as used in § 77B(f) are
words of art which prior to the advent of § 77B had acquired a fixed meaning through judicial interpretations
in the field of equity receivership reorganizations.
Hence, as in case of other terms or phrases used in that
section, Duparquet Huot & Moneuse Co. v. Evans, 297
U. S. 216, we adhere to the familiar rule that where
words are employed in an act which had at the time a
well known meaning in the law, they are used in that
sense unless the context requires the contrary. Keck v.
United States, 172 U. S. 434, 446.
In equity reorganization law the term "fair and equitable" included, inter alia, the rules of law enunciated
by this Court in the familiar cases of Railroad Co. v.
Howard, 7 Wall. 392; Louisville Trust Co. v. Louisville,
N. A. & C. Ry. Co., 174 U. S. 674; Northern Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Boyd, 228 U. S. 482; Kansas City Terminal
Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust Co., 271 U. S. 445.
These cases dealt with the precedence to be accorded

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

creditors over stockholders in reorganization plans. In
Louisville Trust Co. v. Louisville, N. A. & C. Ry. Co.,
supra, this Court reaffirmed the "familiar rule" that "the
stockholder's interest in the property is subordinate to
the rights of creditors; first of secured and then of unsecured creditors." And it went on to say tha* "any arrangement of the parties by which the subordinate rights
and interests of stockholders are attempted to be secured
at the expense of the prior rights of either class of creditors comes within judicial denunciation" (p. 684). This
doctrine is the "fixed principle" according to which
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, supra, decided that the
character of reorganization plans was to be evaluated.
And in the latter case this Court added, "If the value of
the road justified the issuance of stock in exchange for
old shares, the creditors were entitled to the benefit of
that value, whether it was present or prospective, for
dividends or only for purposes of control. In either event
it was a right of property out of which the creditors were
entitled to be paid before the stockholders could retain it
for any purpose whatever." (p. 508.) On the reaffirmation of this "fixed principle" of reorganization law in
Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust
Co., supra, it was said that "to the extent of their debts
creditors are entitled to priority over stockholders against
all the property of an insolvent corporation" (p. 455).
'For analyses and reviews of these cases as applied to equity reorganizations or reorganizations under § 77B and § 77 of the Bankruptcy
Act see Frank, So.pe Realistic Reflections on Some Aspects of Corporate Reorganization, 19 Va. L. Rev. 541; Swaine, Reorganization of
Corporations: Certain Developments of the Last Decade, 27 Col. L.
Rev. 901; Spaeth and Winks, The Boyd Case and Section 77, 32111.
L. Rev. 769; Bonbright and Bergerman, Two Rival Theories of Priority
Rights of Security Holders in a Corporate Reorganization, 28 Col. L.
Rev. 127; Friendly, Some Comments on the Corporate Reorganization
Act, 48 Harv. L. Rev. 39; -2 Gerdes on Corporate' Reorganizations,

§ 1084.

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

117

Opinion of the Court.

In application of this rule of full or absolute priority this
Court recognized certain practical considerations and
made it clear that such rule did not "require the impossible and make it necessary to pay an unsecured creditor
in cash as a condition of stockholders retaining an interest
in the reorganized company. His interest can be preserved by the issuance, on equitable terms, of income
bonds or preferred stock." Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Boyd, supra, p. 508. And this practical aspect of the
problem was further amplified in Kansas City Terminal
Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust Co., supra, by the statement that "when necessary, they (creditors) may be
protected through other arrangements which distinctly
recognize their equitable right to be 1referred to stockholders against the full value of all property belonging to
the debtor corporation, and afford each of them fair opportunity, measured by the existing circumstances, to
avail -himself of this right" (pp. 454-455). And it also
recognized the necessity at times of permitting the inclusion of stockholders on payment of contributions, even
though the debtor company was insolvent. As stated in
Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust
Co., supra, p. 455: "Generally, additional funds will be
essential to the success of the undertaking, and it may
be impossible to obtain them unless stockholders are permitted to contribute and retain an interest sufficiently
valuable to move them. In such or similar cases the
chancellor may exercise an informed discretion concerning the practical adjustment of the several rights." But
even so, payment of cash by the stockholders for new
stock did not itself save the plan from the rigors of the
"fixed principle" of the Boyd case, for in that case the
decree was struck down where provision was not made
for the unsecured creditor and even though the stockholders paid cash for their new stock.. Sales pursuant
to such plans were void, even though there was no fraud

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

in the decree. Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, supra,
p. 504. As this Court there stated, p. 502, "There is no
difference in principle if the contract of reorganization,
instead of being effectuated by private sale, is consummated by a master's deed under a consent decree."
Throughout the history of equity reorganizations this
familiar rule was properly applied in passing on objections made by various classes of creditors that junior interests were improperly permitted to participate in a
plan or were too liberally treated therein. In such adjudications the doctrine of Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Boyd, supra, and related cases, was commonly included
in the phrase "fair and equitable" or its equivalent. As
we have said, the phrase became a term of art used to indicate that a plan of reorganization fulfilled the necessary
standards of fairness. Thus throughout the cases in this
earlier chapter of reorganization law, we find the words
"equitable and fair,"' I "fair and equitable," ' "fairly and
equitably treated," 10 "adequate and equitable," 11 "just,
fair and equitable" 12 and like phrases 1 used to include
the "fixed principle" of the Boyd case, its antecedents and
'Jameson v. Guaranty Trust Co., 20 F. 2d 808,815, certiorari denied
275 U. S. 569.
'Flershem v. National Radiator Corp., 64 F. 2d 847, 852, rev'd 290
U. S.504.
P. R. Walsh Tie & Timber Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 280

F. 38, 44.
" Mountain States Power Co. v. A. L. Jordan Lumber Co., 293 F.
502, 506.
' St. Louis-San FranciscoRy.Co. v. McElvain, 253 F. 123, 134. See
also Guaranty Trust Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 238 F. 812, 816,
819.
" Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, supra, spoke of a "fair" offer to
the creditor and a "just reorganization" as the prerequisite to validity
of the plan (p. 508). Kansas City Terminal Ry.Co..v. Central Union
Trust Co., supra,said that the offer to the creditor had to be "fair and
binding" (p. 452).

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

119

Opinion of the Court.

its successors. Hence we conclude, as have other courts, 4
that that doctrine is firmly imbedded in § 77B.
We come then to the legal question of whether the
plan here in issue is fair and equitable within the meaning of that phrase as used in § 77B.
We do not believe it is, for the following reasons.
Here the court made a finding that the debior is insolvent not only in the equity sense but also in the bankruptcy sense. Admittedly there are assets not in excess
of $900,000, while the claims of the bondholders for principal and interest are approximately $3,800,000. Hence
even if all of the assets were turned over to the bondholders they would realize less than 25 percent on their
claims. Yet in spite of this fact they will be required
under the plan to surrender to the stockholders 23 percent of the value of the enterprise.
True, the relative priorities of the bondholders and
the old Class A stockholders are maintained by virtue of
In re Day & Meyer, Murray & Young, 93 F. 2d 657; Tellier
v. Franks Laundry Co., 101 F. 2d 561; In re Philadelphia & Reading
Coal &,Iron Co., 105 F. 2d 357; In re New York Railways Corp., 82
F. 2d 739, 744; 2 Gerdes on Corporate Reorganizations, § 1085. Intimations to the contrary, Downtown Investment Assn. v. Boston MetropolitanBuildings, Inc., 81 F. 2d 314, 323-324; In re A. C. Hotel Co.,
93 F. 2d 841, are not tenable.
The statutory scheme of § 77B (in those respects which are material
here) is in sharp contrast to that which was provided for compositions
under former § 12. This Court said in Callaghan v. Reconstruction
Finance Corp., 297 U. S. 464, 470: "Reorganizations now permitted
under § 77B present certain resemblances to compositions under
§ 12, which have been commented upon as supporting the constitutionality of the reorganization provisions of § 77 or § 77B....
But § 77B contemplates a procedure and results not permissible under
§ 12. Reorganizations are nowhere referred to in the statute as compositions." Under § 12 (a) (as it existed at the time § 77B was enacted) only a "bankrupt" could offer "terms of composition to his
creditors." Under § 77B (d) plans may be proposed not only by the*
debtor but also by a designated percentage of the creditors or, where
14See

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the priorities accorded the preferred stock which the
bondholders are to receive. But this is not compliance
with the principle expressed in Ka.nsas City Terminal
Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust Co., supra, that "to the
extent of their debts creditors are entitled to priority
over stockholders against all the property of an insolvent
corporation," for there are not sufficient assets to pay
the bondholders the amount of their claims. Nor does
this plan reccgnize the "equitable right" of the bondholders "to be preferred to stockholders against the full
value of all property belonging to the debtor corporation," within the meaning of the rule announced in that
case, since the full value of that property is not first
applied to claims of the bondholders before the stockholders are allowed to participate. Rather it is partially
diverted for the benefit of the stockholders even though
the bondholders would obtain less than 25% payment
if they received it all. Under that theory all classes of
the debtor is not found to be insolvent, by a specified percentage of
stockholders. Section 12 (d) as it then existed provided that the
judge "shall confirm a composition if satisfied" inter alia that "it is
for the best interests of the creditors." See Fteischmann & Devine,
Inc. v. Saul Wolison Dry Goods Co., 299 F. 15. The "fair and equitable" standard employed in § 77B was not then present in § 12. Consent by the debtor to the composition was implicit in former § 12
(cf. In re Bryer, 281 F. 812). But under § 77B approval of a plan by
security holders who have no equity in the enterprise is unnecessary.
In re 620 Church Street Building Corp., 299 U. S. 24. The general
view was well expressed in In re Dutch Woodcraft Shops, 14 F. Supp.
467, 469, "The preservation of business enterprises must not be at the
expense of creditors, and the provisions of section. 77B should not be
taken advantage of to effect what, in fact, amounts to a composition
under section 12."
The Chandler Act, c. 10 (52 Stat. 840) approved June 22, 1938, now
supplants. § 77B. Various substantial changes in the provisions of
§ 77B have been made therein. But the standard of "fair and equitable" as used in § 77B remains unaltered as one of the criteria necessary for confirmation of a plan of reorganization. § 221 (2).

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

121

Opinion of the Court.

security holders could be perpetuated in the new company even though the assets were insufficient to pay-in
new bonds or stock-the amount owing senior creditors.
Such a result is not tenable.
It is, of course, clear that there are circumstances under
which stockholders may participate in a plan of reorganization of an insolvent debtor. This Court, as we have
seen, indicated as much in Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Boyd, supra, and Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust Co., supra. Especially in the latter
case did this Court stress the necessity, at times, of seeking new money "essential to the success of the undertaking" from the old stockholders. 5 Where that necessity exists and the old stockholders make a fresh contribution and receive in return a participation reasonably
equivalent to their contribution, no objection can be
made. But if these conditions are not satisfied the stockholder's participation would run afoul of the ruling of
this Court in Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central
Union Trust Co., supra, that "Whenever assessments are
demanded, they must be adjusted with the purpose of
according to the creditor his full right of priority against
the corporate assets, so far as possible in the existing
This new money was commonly necessary in equity reorganizations not only to provide new working capital but also to pay dissenting creditors. See. Weiner, Conflicting Functions of the Upset Price in
a Corporate Reorganization, 27 Col. L. Rev. 132.
Like considerations are relevant in reorganizations under § 77B.
As stated by the court in In re Dutch Woodcraft Shops, 14 F. Supp.
467, 471:
"Circumstances may exist where the success of an undertaking requires that new money be furnished and where the former stockhold- •
ers are the only or most feasible source of the new capital. In such
instances, the court may recognize as fair and equitable a plan which
includes contributions of new money by stockholders, provided it satisfactorily appears that full recognition has been given to the value of
creditors' claims against the property."

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

circumstances" (p. 456). If, however, those conditions
we have mentioned are satisfied, the creditor cannot complain that he is not accorded "his full right of priority
against the corporate assets." If that were not the test,
then the creditor's rights could be easily diluted by inadequate contributions by stockholders. To the extent of
the inadequacy of their contributions the stockholders
would be in precisely the position .which this Court said
in Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, supra, the stockholders there were in, viz., "in the position of a mortgagor buying at his own sale" (p. 504).
In view of these considerations we believe that to accord "the creditor his full right of priority against the
corporate assets" where the debtor is insolvent, the stocKholder's participation must be based on a contribution
in money or in money's worth, reasonably equivalent in
view of all the circumstances to the participation of the
stockholder.
The alleged consideration furnished by the stockholders
in this case falls far short of meeting those requirements.
1. The findings below that participation by the old
Class A stockholders will be beneficial to the bondholders
because those stockholders have "financial standing and
influence in the community" and can provide a "continuity of management" constitute no legal justification
for issuance of new stock to them. Such items are illustrative of a host of intangibles which, if recognized
as adequate consideration for issuance of stock to valueless junior interests, would serve as easy evasions of the
principle of full or absolute priority of Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Boyd, supra, and related cases. Such items,
on facts present here, are not adequate consideration for
issuance of the stock in question. On the facts of this
case they cannot possibly be translated into money's
worth reasonably equivalent to the participation accordedthe old stockholders. They have no place in the asset

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

123

Opinion of the Court.

column of the balance sheet of the new company. They
reflect merely vague hopes or possibilities. 8 As such,
they cannot be the basis for issuance of stock to otherwise valueless interests. The rigorous standards of the
absolute or full priority doctrine of the Boyd case will
not permit valueless junior interests to perpetuate their
position in an enterprise on such ephemeral grounds.'
2. The District Court's further finding that if the bondhdlders were to foreclose now they would receive "substantially less than the present appraised value" of the
assets of the debtor corporation is no support for inclusion of the old stockholders in the plan. The fact that
bondholders might fare worse as a result of a foreclosure
and liquidation than they would by taking a debtor's
plan under § 77B can have no relevant bearing on
whether a proposed plan is "fair and equitable" under
that section. Submission to coercion is not the application of "fair and equitable" standards. Such a proposition would not only drastically impair the standards of
"fair and equitable" as used in § 77B; it would pervert
On comparable facts a like conclusion was reached in In re Barclay
Park Corp., 90 F. 2d 595, where the court said, p. 598:
"It is argued that the stockholders represent the present management of the hotel and that the management is valuable and indeed
necessary to the enterprise and that the manager-stockholders will
'walk out' if the proposed plan does not go through and leave the hotel
to its fate. But there is no binding agreement on their part to remain which might afford a justification for giving them a stock interest
and, if their managerial skill is vital to the success of the hotel, any
stock issued to insure the continuance of their relation ought to go to
those stockholders who are of use to the enterprise and agree to act in
its behalf, and not to all stockholders as such. Indeed, the supposed
advantages of retaining the existing management seem-to be a matter
of inference, if not of speculation, supported by the oral statements of
attorneys instead of by testimony."
11This conclusion is re~mphasized here by the fact that not all of
the Class A stockholders who receive new stock are part of the management of the debtor.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the function of that Act. One of the purposes of § 77B
was to avoid the consequences to debtors and creditors
of foreclosures, liquidations, and forced sales with their
drastic deflationary effects.18 To hold that in a § 77B
reorganization creditors of a hopelessly insolvent debtor
may be forced to share the already insufficient assets with
stockholders because apart from rehabilitation under that
section they would suffer a worse fate, would disregard
the standards of "fair and equitable"; and would result
in impairment of the Act to the extent that it restored
some of the conditions which the Congress sought to
ameliorate by that remedial legislation.
3. The conclusion of the District Court that the virtual
abrogation of the agreement deferring foreclosure until
1944 ("the principal valuable consideration" given to the
bondholders by the stockholders) justified participation
by the stockholders in the plan is likewise erroneous.
What were the rights of the bondholders under the supplemental indenture executed in 1930 we cannot determine. That indenture is not in the abbreviated record
before us. The District Court found that for all practical purposes the bondholders could not foreclose until
1944. From the findings below we conclude that that
followed as a consequence of making interest payable
only if earned. On this record it does not appear whether
or not there might be other events of default-such as
rion-payment of sinking funds-giving bondh olders or
the trustee the right to foreclose or giving bondholders or
the trustee the right to accelerate the maturity of the
bonds so that suits could be brought thereon. Hence,
we must assume, as the District Court found, that the
bondholders and the trustee could not take possession
18

See H. R. Rep. No. 1409, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 38, dealing with

recent amendments to the section; and H. R. Rep. No. 194, 73rd
Cong., 1st Sess., p. 2, the report accompanying the original Act.

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO
106

125

Opinion of the Court.

of the property through foreclosure or otherwise until the
maturity of the bonds. And as a corollary thereof we
likewise assume that the stockholders, at least so far as
the bondholders were involved, could keep their management group in possession and control until that time.
And we assume that this right or power on the part of
the stockholders to keep possession until 1944 was for
them a thing of value, though there is no finding that
the old stock had any value, present or prospective.
But we cannot conclude that that right survived the
commencement of the proceedings under § 77B. A
debtor as well as a creditor who invokes the aid of the
federal courts in reorganization or rehabilitation under
§ 77B assumes all of the consequences which flow from
that jurisdiction. Once the property is in the hands of
the court private rights as respect that res are subject
to the superior dominion of the court and are to be adjudicated pursuant to the standards prescribed by the
Congress. As a result of such proceedings the hand of
all executions or levies may be stayed.19 The court acquires "exclusive jurisdiction of the debtor and its property wherever located for the purposes of this section." 20
The court need not keep the debtor in possession but
may substitute for the old management a trustee; or
if the old management is retained it operates the business "subject at all times to the control of the judge, and
to such limitations, restrictions, terms, and conditions
as the judge may from time to time impose and prescribe." 21 Thus, while the property remains in the
hands of the court, as it does until dismissal or final
decree on confirmation, the debtor, though left in pos'o§ 77B (a), (c)

(10).

Cf. Continental Illinois Nat. Bank Co. v.

Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co., 294 U. S. 648.
20 § 77B (a).
' § 77B (c).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

session by the judge, does not operate it, as it did before
the filing of the petition, unfettered and without restraint. The control of the court is then pervasive.2 2
Furthermore, stockholders and other. junior interests may
be excluded from any plan of reorganization if the court
finds that the debtor is insolvent. In re 620 Church
Street Building Corp., 299 U. S. 24. And on facts such
as exist here, these junior interests must be excluded
unless they furnish adequate consideration for the interest which they obtain in the new company. And once
the jurisdiction of the court has been invoked, whether
by the debtor or by a creditor, that petitioner cannot
withdraw and oust the court of jurisdiction. 21 He inSee, 1 Gerdes on Corporate Reorganizations, c. 9. These powers
embrace not only the specifically enumerated powers contained in
§ 77B but also "all the powers, not inconsistent with this section, which
a Federal court would have had it appointed a receiver in equity of
the property of the debtor by reason of its inability to pay its debts as
they mature." § 77B (a). In addition, by virtue of § 77A the district court, as a court of bankruptcy, has original jurisdiction in proceedings under § 77B. Illustrative of specific powers granted by § 77B
are the powers of the court to authorize issuance of certificates (§ 77B
(c) (3)), to require the filing of schedules and reports (§ 77B (c) (4)),
to direct rejection of executory contracts (§ 77B (c) (5)), to control
salaries of officers and to approve appointments "to any office" (§ 77B
(c)). The last subsection also provides, "In case a trustee is not appointed, the debtor shall continue in the possession of its property,
and, if authorized by the judge, shall operate the business thereof during such period, fixed or indefinite, as the judge may from time to time
prescribe, and shall have all the title to and shall exercise, consistently
with the provisions of this section, all the powers of a trustee appointed
pursuant to this section, subject at all times to the control of the judge,
and to such limitations, restrictions, terms, and conditions as the judge
may from time to time impose and prescribe." In the instant case
the court left the debtor in possession, allowing its officers no salaries
but allowing specified salaries -to be paid to designated officers of the
principal subsidiary.
' The Act has explicit standards for dismissal (§ 77B .(c) (8)) which
we discuss hereafter.

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

127

Opinion of the Court.

vokes that jurisdiction risking all of the disadvantages
which may flow to him as a consequence, as well as gaining all of the benefits. One of those disadvantages from
the viewpoint of the debtor and its stockholders is the
approval of a plan of reorganization which eliminates
them completely.2 4 Accordingly, respondent's assertion
in this case that the major contribution of these stockholders justifying their inclusion in the plan was the
waiver of their right to defer or put off foreclosure until
1944, i. e., to remain in possession, does not stand analysis. The right to remain in unmolested dominion and
control over the property was necessarily waived or abandoned on invoking the jurisdiction of the federal courts
in these proceedings. When that jurisdiction attached,
the court rather than the stockholders was in control
with all of the powers and, duties which that entailed
under § 77B. Certainly the surrender of a right thus
waived is not adequate consideration for the dilution of
the bondholders' priorities which this plan would effect.
And there is a further reason why this result necessarily follows, if the will of the Congress as expressed in
§ .77B is not to be thwarted and if the integrity of such
proceedings is to be maintained. As we have said, this
plan had its origin in an endeavor on the part of the
debtor in 1937 to effect a voluntary reorganization. A
plan was proposed by the debtor which was the same as
that here involved except for the amount and nature of
the stock to be received by the bondholders.25 That plan
"As recognized in In4 re 620 Church Street Building Corp., supra,
§ 77B (e) (1) expressly takes care of this contingency in the provision
that acceptance of the plan by a majority of the stock "shall not be
,requisite to the confirmation of the plan by any stockholder or class
of stockholders (1) if the judge shall have determined" inter alia that
"the debtor is insolvent."
Under that plan the new company was to have an authorized
capital of $1,000,000 consisting of 1,000,000 shares of a Dar value of

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of. the Court.

308 U. S.

contained two methods for its consummation. The first
was by means of an amendment to the trust indenture
and a recapitalization of the debtor, a method to be followed if the board felt that sufficient approvals had been
obtained. The second was by means of § 77B. Over
80% of the bondholders and over 90% of the stock approved the original plan.. Thereupon'the debtor filed its
petition in § 77B. Thereafter, the debtor filed a modification of the plan to which the assents, here relied upon,
were obtained." Thus respondent argues that since the
plan of reorganization was entered into between the bondholders and the stockholders before institution of the
reorganization proceedings under § 77B, the consideration
flowing from the stockholders had been furnished and
the interests of the bondholders and stockholders in the
assets of the debtor had been fixed prior to the filing of
the petition. In fact, respondent frankly insists that the
stockholders' "right of participation was secured by contract before, and as a condition precedent to, the institution of the 77B proceedings."
But the There statement of this proposition is its own
refutation. If the reorganization court were bound by
such conventions of the parties, it would be effectively
ousted of important duties which the Act places on it.
Federal courts acting under § 77B would be required to
place their imprimatur on plans of reorganization which
disposed of the assets of a company not in accord with
the standards of "fair and equitable" but in compliance
with agreements which the required percentages of secu$1.00 per share, the bondholders getting 590,065 of the shares and the
old Class A stockholders getting 239,935 of the shares. Shares going
to the bondholders were of the same class as those received by
stockholders.
" These assents were apparently measured by the failure of the
bondholders to withdraw their consents which had been given to the
original plan, on receiving copies of the proposed modification.

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

129

Opinion of the Court.

rity holders had previously made. Such procedure would
deprive scattered and unorganized security holders of
the protection which the Congress had provided them
under § 77B. The scope of the duties and powers of the
Court would be delimited by the bargain which reorganizers had been able to make with security holders
before they asked the intercession of the court in effectuating their plan. Minorities would have their fate
decided not by the court in application of the law of
the land as prescribed in § 77B, but by the forces utilized
by reorganizers in prescribing the conditions precedent
on which the benefits of the statute could be obtained.
No conditions precedent to enjoyment of the benefits. of
§ 77B can be provided except by the Congress. To hold
otherwise would be to allow reorganizers to rewrite it
so as to best serve their own ends."
4. The holding of the District Court that the value to
the bondholders of maintaining the debtor as a going
concern and of avoiding litigation with the old stockholders justifies the inclusion of the latter in the plan is
likewise erroneous. The conclusion of the District Court
that avoidance of litigation with the stockholders gave
validity to their claim for recognition in the plan involves
a misconception of the duties and responsibilities of the
court in these proceedings. Whatever might be the
strategic or nuisance value of such parties outside of § 77B
is irrelevant to the duties of the court in confirming or
disapproving a plan under that section. In these proceedings there is no occasion for the court to yield to such
pressures. If the priorities of creditors which the law
Cf. Hollister v. Stewart, 111 N. Y. 644; 19 N. E. 782, where the
court struck down a voluntary reorganization which attempted to bind
minority bondholders. The court said "Unless railroad syndicates or
committees are to be put above the Constitution, the trustees cannot
set aside and change their contract with plaintiff, of their own volition,
without his consent." (p. 660.)

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

protects are not to be diluted, it is the clear duty of the
court to resist all such assertions. Of course, this is not
to intimate that compromise of claims is not allowable
under § 77B. There frequently will be situations involving conflicting claims to specific assets which may, in the
discretion of the court, be more wisely settled by compromise rather than by litigation. Thus, ambiguities in
tht wording of two indentures may make plausible the
.claim of one class of creditors to an exclusive or prior
right to certain assets as against the other class in spite
of the fact that the latter's claim flows from a first mortgage. 28 Close q
questions of interpretations of afteracquired property clauses in mortgages, preferences in
stock certificates, divisional mortgages and the like will
give rise to honest doubts as to which security holders
have first claim to certain assets. Settlement of such conflicting claims to the res in the possession of the court is
a normal part of the process of reorganization. In sanctioning such settlements the court is not bowing to nuisance claims; it is administering the proceedings in an
economical and practical manner. But that is not the
situation here. As a result of the filing of the petition
in this case, the court, not the stockholders, acquired exclusive dominion and control over the estate. Hence,
any strategic position occupied by the stockholders prior
to these proceedings vanished once the court invoked its
jurisdiction. Threats by stockholders of the kind here
in question are merely threats to the jurisdiction of the
That would appear to be essentially the type .of case involved in
In the Matter of Detroit InternationalBridge Co., Debtor,No. 24131,
U. S. D. C. E. D. Mich., cited to us by the respondent and described
in an advisory report (Corporate Reorganization Release No. 9) submitted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to § 172,
c. X of the Chandler Act. However, the action of the court, if any,

on the plan has not yet appeared in the.published reports.

CASE v. LOS ANGELES LUMBER CO.
106

131

Opinion of the Court.

court, which jurisdiction these selfsame stockholders invoked for their benefit when they caused the debtor's
petition to be filed. Consequently, these claims of the
stockholders are, as we have said, entitled to no more
dignity than any claim based upon sheer nuisance value.
In this connection it should be observed that the finding of the court that it was important to admit the stockholders to participation in the plan so as to maintain
the debtor as a going concern and thus protect the bondholders was based upon a misconception of its legal
powers and duties. For the court assumed that the only
alternative to acceptance of this debtor's plan was a dismissal of the proceeding or a liquidation. But this is not
true. In the first place, no special perquisites (of consequence here) flow to stockholders by virtue of the fact
that the proceedings are instituted by a voluntary rather
than an involuntary petition. The criteria for exclusion
or inclusion of stockholders in a plan are precisely the
same in both situations. In practice it is not infrequent
to find proceedings which start with a debtor's petition
ending up with plans of reorganization which exclude
stockholders. Reading Hotel Corp. v. Protective Committee, 89 F. 2d 53. In the second place failure to accept this plan does not force dismissal or liquidation.
Section 77B(c)(8) gives the court explicit powers where
"a plan of reorganization is not proposed or accepted
within such reasonable period as the judge may fix"
either to "extend such period" or to "dismiss the proceeding" 'or, with exceptions not relevant here, to cause
liquidation, such choice to be made "as the interests of
the creditors and stockholders may equitably require."
Accordingly, dismissal has not infrequently been properly
denied. In re BushTerminal Co., 84"F. 2d 984. And
in this case there has been no showing that a plan which
is not only fair and equitable but also meets the other

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

132

308 U. S.

Syllabus.

requirements of the Act cannot be adopted nor that all
reasonable time for proposal of such alternative plans
has expired.
We therefore hold that the plan is not fair and equitable and that the judgment below must be and is
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

took no part in the consideration

oydisposition of this case.
ZIFFRIN, INC. v. REEVES, COMMISSIONER OF

REVENUE OF KENTUCKY,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 8.

Argued October 12, 1939.-Decided November 13, 1939.

1. In the exercise of its power over the manufacture, distribution and
sale of intoxicating liquors, a State may confine the business of
transporting them within the State to those who are licensed as
common carriers, and may enforce this by penalty and confisca-

tion. P. 138.
2. The state power to prohibit absolutely, includes the lesser power
to permit manufacture, sale, transportation or possession, subject
to prescribed conditions which are not unreasonable and which
subserve the policy of confining the liquor traffic in order to minimize its evils and to secure payment of revenue. P. 138.
3. Provisions of the Kentucky Alcohol Beverage Control Act forbidding the carriage of intoxicating liquors by carriers other than
licensed common carriers and forbidding distillers to deliver to an
unauthorized carrier, are not invalid under the Commerce Clause,
or under the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the
Fourteenth Amendment, nor inconsistent with the Federal Motor
Carrier Act of 1935, as applied to a contract carrier in an established business of transporting such liquors,, produced in Kentucky, to consignees in other States. Pp. 138, 140
4. The State may decline to consider certain noxious things legitimate articles of commerce, and inhibit their transportation. Property rights in intoxicants depend on state laws and cease if the
liquor becomes contraband. P. 140.

