OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

NARDONE

ET AL.

308 U. S.

V. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 240. Argued November 14, 1939.-Decided December 11, 1939.
1. In a prosecution in a federal court, evidence procured by tapping
wires in violation of the Communications Act of 1934 is inadmissible. This applies not only to the intercepted conversations themselves but also, by implication, to evidence procured through the
use of knowledge gained from such conversations. P. 339.
2. The burden is.
on the accused in the first instance to prove to the
trial court's satisfaction that wire-tapping was unlawfully employed. P. 341.
3. Once that is established, the trial judge must give opportunity to
the accused to prove that a substantial portion of the case against
him was the result of the illicit wire-tapping. Id.
4. Claims that this taint attaches to any portion of the Government's case must satisfy the trial court with their solidity and
not be merely a means of eliciting what is in the Government's
possession before its submission to the jury. And if such a claim
is made after the trial is under way, the judge must likewise be
satisfied that .the accused could not at an earlier stage have had
adequate knowledge to make his claim. P. 342.
106 F. 2d 41, reversed.
CERTIORARI, post, p. 539; to review the affirmance of convictions in the District Court under an indictment for
frauds on revenue.

Mr. David V. Cahill for Frank Carmine Nardone; Mr.
Jesse Climenko, with whom Mr. J. Bertram Wegman was
on the brief, for Nathan W. Hoffman; and Mr. Louis
Halle for Robert Gottfried,-petitioners.
Assistant Attorney General Rogge, with whom Solicitor
General Jackson and Messrs. William, W. Barron, George
F. Kneip, Louis B. Schwartz, and W. Marvin Smith were
on the brief, for the United States.

NARDONE v. UNITED STATES.
338

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
We are called upon for the second time to review affirmance by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit of petitioners' convictions under an indictment for
frauds on the revenue. In Nardone v. United States, 302
U. S. 379, this Court reversed the convictions on the first
trial because, they were procured by evidence secured in
violation of § 605 of the Communications Act of 1934 (c.
652, 48 Stat. 1064, 1103; 47 U. S. C., § 605). For details
of the facts reference is made to that case. Suffice it
here to say that this evidence consisted of intercepted
telephone messages, constituting "a vital part of the
prosecution's proof."
Conviction followed a new trial, and "the main question" on the appeal below is the only question open herenamely, "whether the [trial] judge improperly refused to
allow the accused to examine the prosecution as to the
uses to which it had put the information" which Nardone
v. United States, supra, found to have vitiated the original conviction. Though candidly doubtful of the result
it reached, the Circuit Court of Appeals limited the scope
of §605 to the precise circumstances before this Court in
the first Nardone case, and ruled that "Congress had not
also made incompetent testimony which had become accessible by the use of unlawful 'taps', for to divulge that
information was not to divulge an intercepted telephone
talk." 106 F. 2d 41.
The issue thus tendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals is the broad one, whether or not§ 605 merely interdicts the introduction into evidence in a federal trial of
intercepted telephone conversations, leaving the prosecution free to make every other use of the proscribed evidence. Plainly, this presents a far-reaching problem in

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the administration of federal criminal justice, and .we
therefore brought the case here for disposition.
Any claim for the exclusion of evidence logically relevant in criminal prosecutions is heavily handicapped.
It must be justified by an over-riding public policy expressed in the Constitution or the law of the land. In
a problem such as that before us now, two opposing concerns must be harmonized: on the one hand, the stern
enforcement of the criminal law; on the other, protection
of that realm of privacy left free by Constitution and laws
but capable of infringement either through zeal or design.
In accommodating both these concerns, meaning must be
given to what Congress has written, even if not in explicit
language, so as to effectuate the policy which Congress
has formulated.
We are here dealing with specific prohibition of particular methods in obtaining evidence. The result of
the holding below is to reduce the scope of § 605 to exclusion of the exact words heard through forbidden interceptions, allowing these interceptions every derivative use
that they may serve. Such a reading of § 605 would
largely stultify the policy which compelled our decision
in Nardone v. United States, supra. That decision was
not the product of a merely meticulous 'reading of technical language. It was the translation into practicality of
broad considerations of morality and public well-being.
This Court found that the logically relevant proof which
Congress had outlawed, it outlawed because "inconsistent
with ethical standards and destructive of personal liberty." 302 U. S. 379, 383. To forbid the direct use of
methods thus characterized but to put no curb on their
full indirect use would only invite the very methods
deemed "inconsistent with ethical standards and destructive of personal liberty." What was said in a different
context in Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251
U. S. 385, 392, is pertinent here: "The essence of a pro-

NARDONE v. UNITED STATES.
338

Opinion of the Court.

vision forbidding the acquisition of evidence in a certain
way is that not merely evidence so acquired shall not be
used before the court, but that it shall not be used at all."
See Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S.298, 307. A decent
respect for the policy of Congress must save us from
imputing to it a self-defeating, if not disingenuous
purpose.
Here, as in the Silverthorne case, the facts improperly
obtained do not "become sacred and inaccessible. If
knowledge of them is gained from an independent source
they may be proved like any others, but the knowledge
gained by the Government's own wrong cannot be used
by it" simply because it is used derivatively. 251 U. S.
385, 392.
In practice this generalized statement may conceal con:
crete complexities. Sophisticated argument may prove a
causal connection between information obtained through
illicit wire-tapping and the Government's proof. As a
matter of good sense, however, such connection may have
become so attenuated as to dissipate the taint. A sensible way of dealing with such a situation-fair to the
intendment of § 605, but fair also to the purposes of the
criminal law-ought to be within the reach of experienced
trial judges. The burden is, of course, on the accused
in the first instance to prove to the trial court's satisfaction that wire-tapping was unlawfully employed. Once
that is established-as was plainly done here-the trial
judge must give opportunity, however closely confined,
to the accused to prove that a substantial portion of the
case against him was a fruit of the poisonous tree. - This
leaves ample opportunity to the Government to convince
the trial court that its proof had an independent origin.
Dispatch in the trial of criminal causes is essential in
bringing crime to book. Therefore, timely steps must be
taken to secure judicial determination of claims of ille-\
gality on the part of agents of the Government in obtain-

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

ing testimony. To interrupt the course of the trial' for
such auxiliary inquiries impedes the momentum of the
main proceeding and breaks the continuity of the jury's
attention. Like mischief would result were tenuous
claims sufficient to justify the trial court's indulgence of
inquiry into the 'legitimacy of evidence in the Government's possession. So to read a Congressional prohibition
against the availability of certain evidence would be to
subordinate the need for rigorous administration of justice to undue solicitude for potential and, it is to be hoped,
abnormal disobedience of the law by the law's officers.
Therefore claims that taint attaches to any portion of
the Government's case must satisfy the trial court with
their solidity and not be merely a means of eliciting what
is in the Government's possession before its submission
to the jury. And if such a claim is made after the trial
is under way, the judge must likewise be satisfied that
the accused could not at an earlier stage have had adequate knowledge to make his claim. The civilized conduct of criminal trials cannot be confined within
mechanical rules. It necessarily demands the authority
of limited direction entrusted to the judge presiding in
federal trials, including a well-established range of judicial
discretion, subject to appropriate review on appeal, in
ruling upon preliminary questions of fact. Such a system
as ours must, within the limits here indicated, rely on the
learning, good sense, fairness and courage of federal trial
judges.
We have dealt with this case on the basic issue tendered
by the Circuit Court of Appeals and have not indulged
in a finicking appraisal of the record, either as to the issue
of the time limit of the proposed inquiry into the use to
which the Government had put its illicit practices, or as
to the existence of independent sources for the Government's proof. Since the Circuit. Court of Appeals did

BOARD OF COMM'RS v. U. S.
338

Syllabus.

not questioif its timeliness, we shall not. And the hostility of the trial court to the whole scope of the inquiry
reflected his own accord with the rule of law by which
the Circuit Court of Appeals sustained him, and which
we find erroneous.
The judgment must be reversed and remanded to the
District Court for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS is of opinion that the Circuit
Court of Appeals reached the proper conclusion upon
reasons there adequately stated and its judgment should
be affirmed.
MB. JUSTICE REED took no part in the consideration or

decision of this case.

BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF THE
COUNTY OF JACKSON, KANSAS, v. UNITED
STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

TENTH CIRCL IT.

No. 14. Argued October 16, 1939.-Decided December 18, 1939.
An Indian allotment was by treaty stipulation and provisions of a

trust patent, issued under the General Allotment Act, exempt
from taxation so long as the United States should hold it in trust.
Over the Indian's objection, the Secretary of the Interior issued
to the Indian a patent in fee simple, which later, after long and
unexcused delay, he canceled, by authority of an Act of Congress.
In the meantime the fee patent had been registered in the county,
and the county. authorities, in reliance upon it, had collected taxes
upon the land. Thereafter, the United States in an action on
behalf of the Indian recovered a judgment against the county for
the amount of the tax payments with interest. Held:

