PEPPER v. LITTON.
Syllabus.

PEPPER v. LITTON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FOURTH CIRCUIT.

No. 39. Argued November 9, 10, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.
1. The overruling by a state court of a motion made by the trustee
of a bankrupt corporation to set aside a judgment against the
corporation, where such motion was based exclusively upon the
ground that the state practice governing confession of judgments
was not followed in obtaining the judgment, and upon the ground
that the agent purporting to act for the corporation in the matter

was not authorized, does not bar the trustee, acting in the bankruptcy court on behalf of other creditors, from attacking the validity or priority of the claim underlying the judgment,-matters
which were not in issue and could not have been decided in the
state court proceeding. P. 302.
2. Courts of bankruptcy, in passing upon the validity and priority
of claims, exercise equity powers and have not only the power but
the duty to disallow or subordinate claims if equity and fairness so
require. That power and duty are especially clear where the claim
seeking allowance accrues to the benefit of an officer, director or
stockholder of the bankrupt. P. 303.
3. Merger of a claim in a judgment does not change its nature in
so far as provability in bankruptcy is concerned; the court of
bankruptcy may look behind the judgment to the essence of the
liability. P. 305.
4. A dominant and controlling stockholder has a fiduciary duty to
creditors in dealing with the corporatiop and with them, and when
his transactions are challenged must prove the good faith of thetransactions and their inherent fairness from the viewpoint of the
corporation and those interested therein. This obligation is enforceable by the trustee in bankruptcy of the corporation. P. 306.
5. A dominant or controlling stockholder or group of stockholders
are fiduciaries, as are directors. Their powers are powers in trust.
P. 306.,
6. The d6minant and controlling stockhplder of a corporation, scheming to defraud one of its creditors, sued the corporation on accumulated unpaid salary claims, the amounts of which were fixed
by himself, and which he sought to collect only when the corporation was in financial difficulties; caused the corporation to con-

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

fess judgment; used the judgment to delay the other creditor;
levied on part of the corporate property and bought it in at
sheriff's sale for much less than his judgment or the other claim;
transferred the property to a second "one-man" corporation for
six times what it cost him at the sale, payable in stock; caused
the first corporation to go into voluntary bankruptcy for the sole
purpose of avoiding payment of the other creditor's claim; bought
up other debts; and presented his judgment as a claim, preferred
in part, against the remaining assets of the bankrupt. Held, that
the judgment claim was properly disallowed by the court of bankruptcy either as a secured or as an unsecured claim. P. 310.
7. The fact that the judgment lien was perfected more than four
months preceding bankruptcy can not affect the result. P. 312.
100 F. 2d 830, reversed.

•CtRTIORARI, 307 U. S. 620, to review the reversal of a
judgment disallowing a claim in bankruptcy.

Mr. M. M..Heuser, with whom Mr. Geo. M. Warren
was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Henry Roberts for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE DO'UGLAS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The case presents the question of the power of the
bankruptcy court to disallow either as a secured or as
a general or unsecured claim a judgment obtained by the
dominant and controlling stockholder of the bankrupt
corporation on alleged salary claims. The judgment of
the District Court disallowing the claim was reversed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals (100 F. 2d 830). We granted
certiorari because of an apparent restriction imposed by
that decision on the power of the bankruptcy court to
disallow or to subordinate such claims in exercise of its
broad equitable powers.
The findings of the District Court, amply supported
by the evidence, reveal a scheme to defraud creditors
reminiscent of some of the evils with which 13 Eliz. c. 5
was designed to cope. But for the use of a so-called

PEPPER v. LITTON.
295

Opinion of the Court.

"one-man" or family corporation, Dixie Splint Coal Company, of which respondent was the dominant and controlling stockholder, that scheme followed an ancient
pattern.
In 1931 Pepper, the petitioner, brought suit in a state
court in Virginia against Dixie Splint Coal Company and
Litton, the respondent, for an accounting of royalties due
Pepper under a lease.' While this suit was pending and
in anticipation that Pepper would recover, Litton caused
Dixie Splint Coal Company to confess a judgment in
Litton's favor in the amount of $33,468.89, representing
alleged accumulated salary claims dating back at least
five years. This was done by P. H. Smith, secretary and
treasurer of Dixie Splint Coal Company, who, according
to the District Court, was "an employee of Litton and
subservient to the latter's will." This was on June 2,
1933. Execution was issued on thigjudgment the same
day but no return was made thereon, Litton waiting
"quietly until the outcome of the Pepper suit was definitely known." On February 19, 1934, Pepper obtained
a judgment against Dixie Splint Coal Company for $9,000.
On motion of the company, execution on the judgment
was suspended for ninety days to permit an appeal. But
defendant in that suit did not appeal.2 Instead, on
March 19, 1934, while execution on the Pepper judgment
was suspended, Litton caused an execution to issue on
his confessed judgment and levy to be made thereunder.
Yet Litton "had no intention of trying to satisfy his confessed judgment" against his corporation "unless and until it became necessary to do so"; he was using it "only
as a shield against the Pepper debt." Thus, when execution and levy were made March 19, 1934,. no steps were
'During this litigation A. P. Pepper, the plaintiff, died and the suit
was continued in the name of JeanMcNeil Pepper, as his executrix.
-Plaintiff, however, did appeal on certain phases of the case. See
Pepper v. Dixie Splint Coal Co., 165 Va. 179; 181 S. E. 406.

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

taken for over two months towards a sale of the property
on which levy had been made. On May 31, 1934, Pepper
caused an execution to issue on her judgment, and levy
was made June 2, 1934. On this latter date the sheriff
"who seems to have been cooperating with Litton" advertised the property for sale under the Litton levy made
in the previous March. On June 14, 1934, the sale was
held and Litton became the purchaser of the property
sold at the sum of $3,200.
The next step in the "planned and fraudulent scheme"
was the formation by Litton of "another of his one-man
corporations," Dixie Beaver Coal Company, to which Litton transferred the property he had acquired at the execution sale at a valuation of $20,135.36 to be paid for in
stock of the new company.3
On September 4, 1934, the third step in Litton's scheme
was taken. On that date Dixie Splint Coal Company,
pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors, passed
June 16, 1934, (two days after the Litton execution sale)
filed a voluntary petition in bankruptcy. This step,
according to the findings below was "plainly for the sole
purpose of avoiding payment of the Pepper debt." The
bankrupt at that time had $4,500 on bank deposit and
$12,000 in accounts receivable, most of which was good.
The cash on deposit was then more than sufficient to pay
all creditors with the exception of Pepper. And Litton
caused the volurtary petition to be filed "feeling confident that his confessed judgment would cover and consume" the remaining assets. Adjudication followed on
September 7, 1934.
'The resolution of the board of directors of this new company certified that in their opinion the property "formerly owned by Dixie
.Splint Coal Company and now owned by Scott Litton is worth $20,135.36 in current money of the United States and we fix the value of
the same at this sum, which is to be paid for in stock."

PEPPER v. LITTON.
295

Opimon of the Court.

Litton's next step in his scheme to defeat th! Pepper
claim was to purchase wage claims against the bankrupt
and to cause "in some manner" other claims to be withdrawn. This was done, according to the District Court,
so that Pepper might be made to appear as the only
general creditor-a situation designed to give Litton a
decided technical advantage, as we shall see.
On June 13, 1934, Pepper had instituted suit in the
Virginia state court to have the Litton judgment declared
void. On June 15, 1934, the day following the sale under
the Litton execution, the sheriff instituted an interpleader
action joining Litton, Pepper and the Clinchfield Coal
Corporation and alleging, inter alia, that that corporation
had a prior lien on all the property sold for a debt of
$2,153. Litton and Pepper both answered admitting the
prior lien of the corporation, Pepper answering "without
prejudice to her rights" asserted in the chancery cause to
have the Litton judgment set aside. On July 18, 19341
an order in the interpleader suit was entered directing
payment of $2,153.00 to the Clinchfield Coal Corporation.
Thereafter the trustee, with the authority of the bankruptcy court, moved in the state court to set aside the
judgment and to quash the execution thereof on the
ground that the judgment was void since it had not been
confessed in the manner required by the Virginia statute.'
'At the first meeting of creditors held on September 26, 1934, the
strategic position of Litton was further improved by t~wiother events
which later the District Court quite properly denounced. In the first
place, P. H. Smith, secretary and treasurer of Dixie Splint Coal Company and the one who had caused the entry of the Litton judgment on
June 2, 1933, by confession against the company, was elected irustee.
In the second place, Smith was authorized to employ, and did in fact
employ, as attorney for the trustee, one I. M. Quillen. Quillen, or his
firm, was attorney for Dixie Splint Coal Company. As such he or his
firm had prepared and filed the petition in bankruptcy for the corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

The court concluded that the Litton judgment was void
but denied the motion on the grounds that the trustee
was estopped to challenge it. The court held that Pepper
in the interpleader suit had treated the fund derived from
the execution sale. under the Litton judgment as valid
and consequently had elected to recognize the validity
of the judgment. Since Litton had acquired, or caused
to have withdrawn, all the remaining claims against the
pany. And he appeared at the first meeting of creditors as counsel
for the bankrupt and yet at that time, as attorney for Litton, filed the
claim of Litton for $33,468.89 as a preferred or secured claim. And at
the time these appointments were made the controversy between Pepper and Litton over the latter's judgment was known and recognized,
although formal proof of the Pepper claim was not filed until November 8, 1934. The grave impropriety of these appointments became
striking as administration of the estate was commenced.
On October 6, 1934, Pepper moved in her state court action to
quash all execution issued and outstanding on the Litton judgment.
Quillen, attorney for the bankruptcy trustee, appeared in opposition to
the motion, acting as attorney for Litton, and contended that the intervention of bankruptcy had deprived the state court of jurisdiction.
The state court reserved decision. On October 15, 1934, Pepper petitioned the referee to direct the trustee to contest the Litton judgment
in the state court.proceeding. Quilen, stating that he acted as attorney for Litton, opposed the petition. After some delay, new counsel
for the trustee were obtained who soon asked the court for authority
to institute a new and independent suit in the state court to have the
Litton judgment declared void. This authority was granted.
I The District Court, though condemning such steps, stated it did not
suggest that Smith and Quillen were acting "with any fraudulent plan
or intention of utilizing their positions in aid of Litton and to the detriment of the estate." Yet he denounced the impropriety of such cnnduct and emphasized the incompatible and conflicting positions which
these persons occupied. On the professional ethics of the conduct of
Quillen, the District Court aptly observed: "It is generally accepted
that an attorney for the bankrupt should not be chosen attorney for
the trustee in any case. And it is even more evident that an attorney
who represents a creditor whose claim is under attack should not be
chosen as attorney for the trustee who, on behalf of other creditors, is
charged with the duty of making that attack."

PEPPER v. LITTON.
295

Opinion of the Court.

estate, the trustee in this suit was representing only
Pepper. Therefore, since Pepper was estopped, so was
the trustee. On appeal :that judgment was affirmed on
those grounds. Smith v. Litton, 167 Va. 263; 188 S. E.
214.
Thereafter the question of the allowance of the Litton
judgment came before the bankruptcy court on exceptions
previously made by Pepper. That court concluded that
the decision by the state court that the trustee was estopped to attack the Litton judgment there, did not prevent the bankruptcy court from considering its validity.
It therefore reviewed all the facts and concluded (1) that
Litton and the Dixie Splint Coal Company had made a
"deliberate and carefully planned attempt" to avoid "the
payment of a just debt"; (2) that Litton and the Dixie
Splint Coal Company -were "in reality the same"; and
(3) that the alleged salary claims underlying the Litton
judgment did not represent an "honest debt" of the
bankrupt corporation, being merely bookkeeping entries
for the double purpose of lessening income taxes and of
-enabling Litton to appear as a creditor of the corporation
in case it became financially involved.' Accordingly, 'the
'This conclusion was based on the history and nature of the claims
for salary. Litton's alleged claim of $33,468.89 represented $7,427.25
owed Litton and $26,041.64 owed P. H. Smith which the latter had
assigned to Litton for $1 and "other considerations" which Litton was
unable to recall. As we have noted, these claims date back over a
number of years. The regular salaries paid Litton and Smith were
entered on the corporation's books under a "payroll" account; thq
salary claims here in question were carried under separate accounts,
"P. H. Smith-Personal" and "Scott Litton-Personal." No sums were
paid Smith from that personal account. The District Court concluded
that it was hard to believe that Smith, a bookkeeper and clerk, who had
been paid $2,700 a year, should, with no change in the nature of his
work, receive a sudden increase in salary to $8,000 a year, except upon
an understanding that it was merely for record purposes and not to be
paid. This conclusion was strengthened by the fact that the $26,041.64
accumulated for over five years with no effort on Smith's part to col-

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

District Court disallowed the Litton claim either as a
secured or unsecured claim and directed the trustee to
recover for the benefit of the estate the property or its
value which Litton purchased at the execution sale on
June 14, 1934. On appeal the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed that judgment holding that the decision
in the state court was res judicata in the bankruptcy
proceedings.
We think that the Circuit Court of Appeals was in error
in reversing the judgment of the District Court.
In the first place, res judicata did not prevent the District Court from examining into the Litton judgment and
disallowing or subordinating it as a claim. When that
claim was attacked in the bankruptcy court Litton did
not show that the proceeding in the state court was anything more than a proceeding under Virginia practice to
set aside the judgment in his favor on the ground that it
was irregular or void upon its face. He failed to show
that the judgment in the state court was conclusive in
his favor on the validity or priority of the underlying
claim, as respects the other creditors of the bankrupt
corporation-a duty which was incumbent on him. On
the pleadings in the state court the validity of the underlying claim was not in issue. Nor was there presented to
the state court the question of whether or not the Litton
judgment might be subordinated to the claims of other
lect it and by the fact that shortly before bankruptcy he assigned the
claim to Litton for a nominal consideration. As to the $7,427.25 alleged to be owed Litton the court likewise concluded that it hadbeen
entered on the books for income tax purposes and was not a "bona fide
obligation" of the company. Furthermore, a substantial part of these
claims was barred by the statute of limitations. On the most tolerant
assumption that could be made, according to the court, the salaries
credited to Litton and Smith were merely contingent or conditional
obligations not provable since they were intended to be paid only
whenever.the profits of the company permitted. Hence they were not
fixed liabilities absolutely owing. See § 63 (a) (1).

PEPPER v. LITTON.
295

Opinion of the Court.

creditors upon equitable principles. The motion on which
that proceeding was based challenged the Litton judgment on one ground only, viz., that it was void ab initio
because it was not confessed by Dixie Splint Coal Company in the manner required by the Virginia statute and
because P. H. Smith did not have either an implied or
express power to confess it. In other words, in the state
court under the pleadings and practice, the only decree
which was asked or could be given in the plaintiff's favor
was for cancellation of the judgment as a record obligation of the bankrupt. It is therefore plain that the issue
which the bankruptcy court later considered was not an
issue in the trial of the cause in the state court and could
not be adjudicated there.' Hence, the failure on the
part of Litton to establish that the state judgment was
res judicata plus his submission of his judgment to the
bankruptcy court for allowance (as a preferred claim to
the extent that it was secured by the alleged lien and as
a common claim as respects the deficiency) plainly left
the bankruptcy court with full authority to follow the
course it took and to determine the validity of Litton's
alleged secured claim and the priority which should be
accorded it in the distribution of the bankrupt estate. In
the second place, even though we assume that the alleged
salary claim on which the Litton judgment was based was
not fictitious but actually existed, we are of the opinion
that the District Court properly disallowed or subordinated it.
Courts of bankruptcy are constituted by §§ 1 and 2
of the Bankruptcy Act (30 Stat. 544) and by the latter
'It should be noted that there is authority for the conclusion that

the trustee is not necessarily precluded from questioning a judgment
in the bankruptcy proceedings merely because he attacked it in a state
court proceeding, where the state court did not pass upon, the validity
of the underlying claim. In re James A. Brady Foundry Co., 3 F. 2d

437; Gilbert's Collier on Bankruptcy (4th ed.) § 1247.

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

section are invested "with sucu jurisdiction at law and in
equity as will enable them to exercise, original jurisdiction
in bankruptcy proceedings." Consequently this Court
has held that for many purposes "courts of bankruptcy
are essentially courts of equity, and their proceedings
inherently proceedings in equity." Local Loan Co. v.
Hunt, 292 U. S. 234, 240. By virtue of § 2 a bankruptcy
court is a court of equity at least in the sense that in the
exercise of the jurisdiction conferred upon it by the Act,
it applies the principles and rules of equity jurisprudence.
Larson v. First State Bank, 21 F. 2d 936, 938. Among
the granted powers are the allowance and disallowance
of claims; I the collection and distribution of the estates
of bankrupts and the determination of controversies in
relation thereto; 8 the rejection in whole or in part "according to the equities of the case" of claims previously
allowed; ' and the entering of such judgments "as may
be necessary for the enforcement of the provisions" of
the Act.' In such respects the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court is exclusive of all other courts. United States
Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Bray, 225 U. S. 205, 217.
The bankruptcy courts have exercised these equitable
powers in passing on a wide range of problems arising
out of the administration of bankrupt estates. 1' They
' § 2 (2). The sections are cited As they were at the time of the
bankruptcy in this case. But the amendments made by the Chandler
Act (52 Stat. 840), approved June 22, 1938, are not material so far as
the issues here involved are concerned.
B§ 2 (7).

.§ 57 (k).
2 (15).
Thus the bankruptcy court has been held to have jurisdiction over
a supplemental and ancillary bill to enjoin a creditor, after adjudica,
tion and discharge of -the bankrupt, from prosecuting his claifn in a
state court. Local Loan Co. v. Hunt, supra. As a court ir, equity it
has been held to have the power to protect the bankrupt estate against
- fraudulent assessment, Cross v. Georgia Iron d Coal Co., 250 F.
1o§

PEPPER v. LITTON.
295

Opinion of the Court.

have been invoked to the end that fraud will not prevail,
that substance will not give way to form, that technical
considerations will not prevent substantial justice from
being done. By reason of the express provisions of § 2
these equitable powers are to be exercised on the allowance of claims, a conclusion which is fortified by § 57 (k)."2
For certainly if, as provided in the latter section, a claim
which has been allowed may be later "rejected in whole
or in part, according to the equities of the case," disallowance or subordination in light of equitable considerations
may originally be made.
Hence, this Court has held that a bankruptcy court
has full power to inquire into the validity of any claim
asserted against the estate and to disallow it if it is ascertained to be without lawful existence. Lesser v. Gray,
236 U. S. 70. And the mere fact that a claim has been
reduced to judgment does not prevent such an inquiry.
As the merger of a claim into a judgment does not change
its nature so far as provability is concerned, Boynton v.
Ball, 121 U. S. 457, so the court may look behind the
judgment to determine the essential nature of the liability
438; to compel execution of a deed to make the bankrupt's equitable
title a complete legal title, Dearborn Electric Light & Power Co. v.
Jones, 299 F. 432; to recover assets of the estate which have been use'
to pay dividends under a composition order later reversed, In re Lilyknit Silk Underwear Co., 73 F. 2d 52. And even though the act provides that claims shall not be proved against a bankrupt estate
subsequent to six months after the adjudication, the bankruptcy court
in the exercise of its equitable jurisdiction has power to permit claims
to be proved thereafter in order to prevent a fraud or an injustice.
Williams v. Rice, 30 F. 2d 814; In re Pierson, 174 F. 160; Larson v.
First State Bank, supra; Burton Coal Co. v. Franklin Coal Co., 67 F.
2d 796.
"Section 57 (k) provides:' "Claims which have been allowed may

be reconsidered for cause and reallowed or rejected in whole -or in part,
according to the equities of the case, before but not after the estate
has been closed."

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

for purposes of proof and allowance. Wetmore v. Markoe, 196 U. S. 68. It may ascertain the validity of liens,
marshal them, and control their enforcement and liquidation. Isaacs v. Hobbs Tie & Timber Co., 282 U. S. 734.
And the bankruptcy trustee may collaterally attack a
judgment offered as a claim against the estate for the
purpose of showing that it was obtained by collusion of
the parties or is founded upon no real debt.'"
That equitable power also exists in passing on claims
presented by an officer, director, or stockholder in the
bankruptcy proceedings of his corporation. The mere
fact that an officer, director, or stockholder has a claim
against his bankrupt corporation or that he has reduced
that claim to judgment does not mean that the bankruptcy court must accord it pari passu treatment with
the claims of other creditors. Its disallowance or subordination may be necessitated by certain cardinal principles of equity jurisprudence. A director is a fiduciary.
Twin-Lick Oil Co. v. Marbury, 91 U. S. 587, 588. So
is a dominant or controlling stockholder or group of stockholders. Southern Pacific Co. v. Bogert, 250 U. S. 483,
492. Their powers are powers in trust. See Jackson v.
Ludeling, 21 Wall. 616, 624. Their dealings with the
corporation are subjected to rigorous scrutiny and where
any of their contracts or engagements with the corporation is challenged the burden is on the director or stockholder not only to prove the good faith of the 'transaction
but also to show its inherent fairness from the viewpoint
of the corporation and those interested therein. Geddes
v. Anaconda Copper Mining Co., 254 U. S. 590, 599. The
essence of the test is whether or not under all the circumstances the transaction carries the earmarks of an
S Chandler v.

Thompson, 120 F. 940; In re Thompson, 276 F. 313;

In re Continental Engine Co., 234 F. 58.
of a plea of res judicata.

This is of course in absence

PEPPER v. LITTON.
295

Opinion of the Court.

arm's length bargain.1" If it does not, equity will set it
aside. While normally that fiduciary obligation is enforceable directly by the corporation, or through a stockholder's *derivative action, i it is, in the event of
bankruptcy of the corporation, enforceable by the trustee.1" For that standard of fiduciary obligation is designed for the protection of the entire community of
interests in the corporation '-creditors
as well as
stockholders.
As we have said, the bankruptcy court in passing on
allowance of claims sits as a court of equity. Hence
these rules governing the fiduciary responsibilities of directors and stockholders come into play on allowance of
their claims in bankruptcy. In the exercise of its equita"This Court said in Twin-Lick Oil Co. v. Marbury, supra, p. 590:
"So, when the lender is a-director, charged, with others, with the control and management of the affairs of the corporation, representing in
this regard the aggregated interest of all the stockholders, his obligation, if he becomes a party to a contract with the company, to candor
and fair dealing, is increased in the precise degree that his representa.tive character has given him power and control derived from the confidence reposed in him by the stockholders who appointed him their
agent. If he should be a sole director, or one of a smaller number
vested with certain powers, this obligation would be still stronger, and
his acts subject to more severe scrutiny, and their validity determined
by more rigid principles of morality, and freedom from motives of
selfishness."
'5 Converse v. United Shoe Machinery Co., 209 Mass. 539; 95 N. E.
929. Davenport v. Dows, 18 Wall. 626. It is also clear that breach
of that fiduciary duty may also give rise to direct actions by stockholders in their own right. Strong v. Repide, 213 U. S. 419. Cf.
Green v. Victor Talking Machine Co., 24 F. 2d 378.
" § 70 (a) (6); Manning v. Campbell, 264 Mass. 386; 162 N. E.
770; Stephan v. Merchants CollateralCorp., 256 N. Y. 418; 176 N. E.
824; Dean v. Shingle, 198 Cal. 652; 246 P. 1049.
" See Wyman v. Bowman, 127 F. 257, 274; Burnes v. Burnes, 137
F. 781; Texas Auto Co. v. Arbetter, 1 S. W. 2d 334, 339; McCandless
v. Furlaud,296 U. S. 140; Jackson v. Ludeling, supra, pp. 624 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

ble jurisdiction the bankruptcy court has the power to sift
the circumstances surrounding any claim to see that injustice or unfairness is not done in administration of the
bankrupt estate. 8 And its duty so to do is especially
clear when the claim seeking allowance accrues to the
benefit of an officer, director, or stockholder. That is
clearly the power and duty of the bankruptcy courts
under the reorganization sections. In Taylor v. Standard
Gas & Electric Co., 306 U. S. 307, this Court held that the
claim of Standard against its subsidiary (admittedly a
claim due and owing) should be allowed to participate in
the reorganization plan of the subsidiary only in subordination to the preferred stock of the subsidiary. This was
based on the equities of the case--the history of spoliation, mismanagement, and faithless stewardship of the
affairs of the subsidiary by Standard to the detriment of
the public investors. Similar results have properly been
reached in ordinary bankruptcy proceedings. Thus,
salary claims of officers, directors, and stockholders in the
bankruptcy of "one-man" or family corporations have
been disallowed or subordinated where the courts have
been satisfied that allowance of the claims would not be
Thus. in National Cash Register Co. v. Daleit, 76 F. 2d 867, the
bankrupt, prior to bankruptcy' turned in to petitioner an old cash

register as a credit on account of the purchase of a new one. Pending
delivery of the new machine, petitioner loaned the bankrupt another
one and after the bankruptcy adjudication sought to reclaim the
loaned machine. The court affirmed an order of the District Court
allowing the reclamation on condition that petitioner first deliver to
the bankrupt the old machine or pay the amount of its agreed value.
The court said, p. 868, "We do not think it necessary to determine
whether the contract for the purchase of the new cash register

amounted to. a bailment lease or a conditional sale. Bankruptcy
courts may apply rules regulating equitable actions."

PEPPER v. LITTON.
295

Opinion of the Court.

fair or equitable to other creditors."" And that result
may be reached even though the salary claim has been
reduced to judgment.20 It is reached where the claim
asserted is void or voidable because the vote of the interested director or stockholder helped bring it into being
or where the history of the corporation shows dominancy
and exploitation on the part of the claimant.' It is also
reached where on the facts the bankrupt has been used
merely as a corporate pocket of the dominant stockholder,
who, with disregard of the substance or form of corporate
management, has treated its affairs as his own.2" And
so-called loans or advances by the dominant or controlling
stQckholder will be subordinated to claims of other crediIn re Burntside Lodge, Inc., 7 F. Supp. 785. In that case the

court said, p. 787:
"The relations of a stockholder to a corporation and to the public
require good faith and fair dealing in every transaction between the
stockholder and the corporation which may injuriously affect the
rights of creditors and the general public, and a careful examination
will be made into all such transactions in the interests of creditors.
"If the business had not been incorporated and the Cooks had conducted the enterprise personally, they would not have been allowed
compensation for services in the event of bankruptcy, and there is no
cogent reason why they sibuld be paid when the same service is rendered as an officer and manager of a corporation of their own creation
and to serve their own interests. To allow claims under such circumstanees in effect would permit bankrupts to collect on claims against
their own bankrupt estate. It would give effect to form rather than
to substance, to the letter of the law rather than the spirit and purpose of it."
. In re Wenatchee-Stratford Orchard Co., 205 F. 964.
In re McCarthy'PortableElevator Co., 196 F. 247, aff'd 201 F. 923.
"In re Chas. K. Horton, Inc., 22 F. Supp. 905; In re Kentucky
Wagon Mfg. Co., 71 F. 2d 802; ForbushCo. v. Bartley, 78 F. 2d 805;
Clere Clothing Co. v. Union Trust & Savings Bank, 224 F. 363.

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

tors and thus treated in effect as capital contributions by
the stockholder not only in the foregoing types of situations but also where the paid-in capital is purely nominal,
the capital necessary for the scope and magnitude of the
operations of the company being furnished by the stockholder as a loan.2"
Though disallowance of such claims will be ordered
where they are fictitious or a sham,2" these cases do not
turn on the existence or non-existence of the debt. Rather
they involve simply the question of order of payment. 5
At times equity has ordered disallowance or subordination by disregarding the corporate entity."6 That is to
say, it has treated the debtor-corporation simply as a part
of the stockholder's own enterprise, consistently with the
course of conduct of the stockholder. But in that situation as well as in the others to which we have referred,
a sufficient consideration may be simply the violation of
rules of fair play and good conscience by the claimant;
"Albert Richards Co. v. Mayfair, Inc., 287 Mass. 280; 191 N. E.
430. Cf. Erickson v. Minnesota & Ontario Power Co., 134 Minn. 209;
158 N. W. 979; Oriental Investment Co. v. Barclay, 64 S. W. 80 (Tex.
Civ. App.); Joseph R. Foard Co. v. State, 219 F. 827.
"New York Trust Co. v. Island Oil & Transport Corp., 34 F. 2d
655;
In re H. Hicks & Son, Inc., 82 F. 2d 277.
2
1 See comment in 45 Yale L. Journ. 1471.
'"In re Otsego Waxed Paper Co., 14 F. Supp. 15. The court said,
p. 16, "The applicable principle is that, where a corporation is so
organized and controlled as to make it a mere instrumentality or adjunct of another, and the subsidiary becomes bankrupt, the parent
corporation cannot have its claim paid until all other claims are first
satisfied." See also Hunter v. Baker Motor Vehicle Co., 225 F. 1006;
Henry v. Dolley, 99 F. 2d 94.
The same result has been reached in equity receiverships. Central
Vermont Ry. Co. v. Southern New England R. Corp., 1 F. Supp.
1004, aff'd 68 F. 2d 460; S. 0. V. Co. v. S. G. V. Co., 264 Pa. 265;
107 A. 721.
A fortiori that result is reached where there is a fraudulent purpose.
E. E. Gray Corp. v. Meehan, 54 F. 2d 223.

PEPPER v. LITTON.
295

Opinion of the Court.

a breach of the fiduciary standards of conduct which he
owes the corporation, its stockholders and creditors. He
who is in such a fiduciary position cannot serve himself
first and his cestuis second. He cannot manipulate the
affairs of his corporation to their detriment and in disregard of the standards of common decency and honesty.
He cannot by the intervention of a corporate entity violate the ancient precept against serving two masters. -7
He cannot by the use of the corporate device avail himself of privileges normally permitted outsiders in a race
of creditors. He cannot utilize his inside information
and his strategic position for his own preferment. He
cannot violate rules of fair play by doing indirectly
through the corporation what he could not do directly.
He cannot use his power for his personal advantage and
to the detriment of the stockholders and creditors no matter how absolute in terms that power may be and no
matter how meticulous he is to satisfy technical requirements. For that 'power is at all times subject to the
equitable limitation that it may not be exercised for
the aggrandizement, preference, or advantage of the
fiduciary to the exclusion or detriment of the cestuis.
Where there is a violation of those principles, equity will
undo the wrong or intervene to prevent its consummation.
On such a test the action of the District Court in disallowing or subordinating Litton's claim was clearly correct. Litton allowed his salary claims to lie dormant
for years and sought to enforce them only when his debtor
corporation was in financial difficulty. Then he used
them so that the rights of another creditor were impaired. Litton as an insider utilized his strategic position for his own preferment to the damage of Pepper.
Litton as the dominant influence over Dixie Splint Coal
Company used his power not to deal fairly with the
See Alexander v. Theleman, 69 F. 2d 610, 613.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

creditors of that company but to manipulate its affairs
in such a manner that when one of its creditors came to
collect her just debt the bulk of the assets had disappeared
into another Litton company. Litton, though a fiduciary,
was enabled by astute legal manoeuvring to acquire
most of the assets of the bankrupt not for cash or other
consideration of value to creditors but for bookkeeping
entries representing at best merely Litton's appraisal of
the worth of Litton's services over the years.
This alone would be a sufficient basis for the exercise
by the District Court of its equitable powers in disallowing the Litton claim. But when there is added the existence of a "planned and fraudulent scheme," as found by
the District Court, the necessity of equitable relief against
that fraud becomes insistent. No matter how technically
legal each step in that scheme may have been, once its
basic nature was uncovered it was the duty of the bankruptcy court in the exercise of its equity jurisdiction to
undo it. Otherwise, the fiduciary duties of dominant
or management stockholders would go for naught; exploitation would become a substitute for justice; and
equity would be perverted as an instrument for approving
what it was designed to thwart.
The fact that Litton perfected his lien more than four
months preceding bankruptcy is no obstacle to equitable
relief. In the first place, that lien was but a step in a general fraudulent plan which must be viewed in its entirety. The subsequent sale cannot be taken as an isolated
step unconnected with the long antecedent events, all
designed to defeat creditors. Buffum v. Peter Barceloux
Co., 289 U. S. 227, 232-233. In the second place, Litton
is seeking approval by the bankruptcy court of his claim.
The four months' provision of the bankruptcy act is certainly not a statutory limitation on equitable defenses
arising out of a breach of fiduciary duties by him who
seeks allowance of a claim.

PEARSON v. McGRAW.
295

.313

Syllabus.

In view of these considerations we do not have occasion
to determine the legitimacy of the "one-man" corporation
as a bulwark against the claims of creditors."8
Accordingly the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
Reversed.
PEARSON, STATE TREASURER OF THE STATE
DF OREGON, v. McGRAW ET AL., EXECUTORS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OREGON.
No. 69. Argued November 15, 16, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.
A resident of Oregon, owning bonds in Illinois, held for him by a
trust company acting as custodian and financial agent, and having also a checking account with the company, directed the company to raise a specified sum of money by sale of bonds in its
hands and by use of his cash balance, and to apply that sum to
the purchase of an equal amount in Federal Reserve notes. When
this had been done, and the trust company had held the notes for
a few days, he executed in Oregon an instrument by which, in
contemplation of death, he made a transfer of the notes to the
trust company, as trustee for designated beneficiaries, reserving to
himself no interest and no power of revocation. Thereafter, the
trust complny held the notes under the trust agreement for several
days, and then used them from time to time to purchase bonds
for the account of the trust. Its original engagement as custodian
and agent antedated the settlor's domicile in Oregon, and none
On this 'point the District Court said: "An examination of the
facts disclosed here shows the history of a deliberate and carefully
planned attempt on the part of Scott Litton and Dixie Splint Coal
Company to avoid the payment of a just debt. I speak of Litton and
Dixie Splint Coal Company because they are in reality the same. In
all the experience of the law, there has never been a more prolific
breeder of fraud than the one-man corporation. It is a favorite device for the escape of personal liability. This case illustrates Ianother
frequent use of this fiction of corporate entity, whereby the owner of
the corporation, through his complete control over it, undertakes to
gather to himself all of its assets to the exclusion of its creditors."

