VALVOLINE OIL CO. v. U. S
'132

Syllabus.

The power of a State to regulate her internal affairs
notwithstanding the consequent effect upon interstate
commerce was much discussed in South Carolina Hwy.
Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 18'. There it was
again affirmed that although regulation by the State
might impose some burden on interstate commerce this
was permissible when "an inseparable incident of the
exercise of a legislative authority, which, under the Constitution, has been left to the states." In the absence of
controlling language to the contrary-and there is nonethe Federal Motor Carrier Act should not be brought into
conflict with this reiterated doctrine.
The challenged decree must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the eonsideration

or decision of this case.

VALVOLINE OIL CO. v. UNITED STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT "COURT OF THE UNITED STATES'
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 25. Argued October 19, 1939.--Decided November 13, 1939.
1. An oil company owning and operating a pipe line through which
it transports to its own refineries for its own refining purposes,
partly across state lines, oil which it purchases from producers at
the mouths of their wells, is an interstate "pipe-line company" *and
a-"common carrier ' within the meaning of § 1 (1) (b), and (3),
of, the Interstate Commerce Act, and under § 19a (a) and (e) may
constitutionally be required by the Commission to furnish maps,
charts and schedules of its pipe-line properties, for use in valuing
such properties under that section. P. 143.
2. In § 1 (b) (3) of the Interstate Commerce Act which provides
that the term "common -carrier" shall include "all pipe-line companies; express companies; sleeping-car companies; and all persons,
natural or artificial, engaged in such transportation or transmission

142

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

as aforesaid as common carriers for hire," the final clause is conjunctive, not a modifier, and does not affect the generality of the first
clause as to pipe-line companies. P. 145.
3. The valuation provisions, § 19a (a) and (e) are so far separable
from the regulatory provisions of the Act that in a suit to set
aside an order under that section the question whether the pipeline owner if subjected to regulation of its rates, etc., as a common
carrier would be deprived of property without due process does
not properly arise. P. 146.
4. The validity of the provisions of § 19a (a) and (e) of the Act
does not depend upon the extent of a pipe-line company's operations. Id.
25 F. Supp. 460, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges, which dismissed a bill to set aside an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.

Mr. J. Campbell Brandon, with whom Mr. Harry S.
Elkins was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Hugh B. Cox, with whom Solicitor General Jackson,
Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs. Elmer B.
.Collins,Frank Coleman, Richard H. Demuth, and Daniel
W. Knowlton were on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE REED delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Valvoline Oil Company appeals' from the final
decree of a three-judge district court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania, under the Urgent Deficiencies
Act,2 dismissing a petition to enjoin and annul an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The order, requiring appellant to file with the Commission certain
maps, charts and schedules of its pipe-line properties for
pse in valuing the properties under § 19a of the Interstate
'Judicial Code § 238, 28 U. S. C. § 345.
'38 Stat. 220, 28 U.S. C. §§. 47, 47a.

VALVOLINE OIL CO. v. U. S.
141

Opinion of the Court.

Commerce Act, was made after a determination by the
Commission that appellant was "engaged in the transportation of oil by pipe line in interstate commerce and
that it is a common carrier subject to the provisions
of the Interstate Commerce Act."
Through 1,426 miles of pipe line, running to 9,020 wells
in Pennsylvania, West. Virginia and Ohio, Valvoline
gathers some 75,000 barrels of oil per month for its two
refineries in Pennsylvania which manufacture the products distributed by Valvoline to the trade. All of this
oil is purchased from producers at the well, 50 per cent
originating in Pennsylvania, 38 per cent in West Virginia,
and 12 per cent in Ohio. At the time of the final order
of the Commission which it challenges here, Valvoline was
selling surplus oil, not .needed in its own operations, to a
refinery in Pennsylvania and to another in West Virginia,
but none of this came from out of the state of the refinery.
Because, thus, it does not transport interstate other oil
than that which it purchases at the well for its own use,
Valvoline claims that it is not a common carrier of oil
subject to the Interstate Commerce Act, or, should it be
held to come within the terms of the statute, that the
statute is unconstitutional as to it in that the provisions
violate due process by taking the carrier's property for
public use without compensation.
Appellant urges as reasons why it is not a common
carrier within the provisions of the Interstate Commerce
Act that its pipe lines are used primarily to transport
oil to its own refineries, that it is not clothed with a public
interest, that the oil flowing through its lines is not in
commerce until after preparation for market, and that,
since the purpose of § 19a(a) and (e) of the Interstate
Commerce Act in requiring valuation data is to furnish
a basis for the establishment of traffic and rates, the
report required is the first step in general regulation to

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.

144

Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

which it is not subject. The pertinent provisions of the
Act are set out in the margin.3
There is no controversy over whether appellant is an
interstate pipe line company. Obviously it is. The contentions above are advanced to show it is not subject to
the Act. Section 1(3) defines common carrier to include
"all pipe-line companies." If this definition is not
limited by the subsequent clause "engaged . . . as common carriers for hire," extended consideration of these
characteristics of a private carrier is unnecessary as the
language of the definition is decisive.
The practice of compelling producers to sell at the well
before admitting their oil to the lines was widely used as.
a means of monopolizing the product before the Hepburn Amendment in 1906. Whether the oil so owned
'Sec. 1. (1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to common
carriers engaged in(b) The transportation of oil or other commodity, except water and
except natural or artificial gas, by pipe line, or partly by pipe line and
partly by railroad or by waterFrom one State . . .to any other State....

(3) The term "common carrier" as used in this chapter shall include
all pipe-line companies; express companies; sleeping-car companies;
and all persons, natural or artificial, engaged in such transportation
[or transmission] as aforesaid as common carriers for hire.
Sec. 19a. (a) The Commission shall, as hereinafter provided, investigate, ascertain, and report the value of all the property owned or
used by every common carrier subject to the provisions of this
chapter.

...

(e) Every common carrier subject to the provisions of this chapter
shall furnish to the Commission or its agents from ti~ae to time as
the Commission may reluire maps, profiles, contracts, reports of engineers, and any other documents, records, and papers, or copies of any
or all of the same, in aid of such investigation and determination of the
value of the property of said common carrier ....
'34 Stat. 584; see A')Cong. Rec. 6365-66; Pipo Line Cases, 234
U. S. 548, 559.

VALVOLINE OIL CO. v. U. S.
Opinion of the Court.

141

and transported was ultimately used by the carrier in its
own operations or sold to others was in this connection
immaterial. Certainly one would find a public interest
in the sole means of transporting this commodity from
thousands of wells for thousands of producers. This was
covered by the Pipe Line decision. There it was stated
that commerce is not dependent on title, "and the fact
that the oils transported belonged to the owner of the
pipe line is not conclusive against the transportation
being such commerce." The applicable section of the
Interstate Commerce Act at the time of the Pipe Line
Cases read:
That the provisions of this Act shall apply to any person or persons engaged in the transportation of oil or
other commodity, except water and except natural or
artificial gas, by means of pipe lines, or partly by pipe
lines and partly by water, who shall be considered and
held to be common carriers within the meaning and purpose of this Act.
This Court construed that section to cover those who
were common carriers in substance even if not in technical form and read it that those "engaged in the transportation of oil . . . by means.of pipe lines" shall be treated
as common carriers under the Act. The last clause was
held not "to cut down the generality" of the Act.
In the present Act there is a change of language but
we perceive none in meaning. Speaking of the amendments of the Transportation Act of 1920, which recast the
Hepburn Amendment into the present form, the House
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce reported
that the section here under consideration "amends the
first five paragraphs of section 1 of the Commerce-Act,
making minor corrections and classifying language in
several respects, but making no important changes in
policy." ' As now written the section brings railroads
Rep. No. 456, Nov. 10, 1919, to accompany "U. R. 10453, 66th
Cong., 1st Sess.

146

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

under the Act by means of the last clause of subsection
(3) only.' This clause is a conjunctive, not a modifier.
It does not affect the generality of the first clause as to
pipe-line companies.
The appellant relies upon the Pipe Line Cases to show
that the present act does not cover a pipe line transporting
oil for its own refining purposes only. The discussion
referred to is that concerning the Uncle Sam Oil Company. But that company's pipe line was used for the
"sole purpose of conducting oil from its own wells to its
own refinery." This was held not to be transportation
under the Act. Here, however, it is the purchase from
many sources and subsequent carriage that determine the
applicability- of the statute to Valvoline.
Appellant presses its argument beyond the question
whether it comes under the Act. If it does, it urges, the
Act is in violation of the due process clause in that by the
involuntary change of status from private to common
carrier its property is taken. It looks upon the various
regulatory provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act
as inseparable from the valuation provisions of § 19a(a)
and (e). The losses feared, from present or future legislation other than the valuation provisions, may never
occur. The data required by the present order may never
be used to fix rates. No such information as to other
pipe lines has been so used. Publicity alone may give
effective remedy to abuses, if any there be.7 This legislation was intended to free interstate commerce in, oil
from practices believed to be detrimental, and in that
connection accessibility of valuation information to the
Congress is essential. Its separate significance being apparent, we confine ourselves to § 19a(a) and (e). The
'Cf. PennsylvaniaR. Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 298 U. S. 170,
174.
II Sharfman, The Interstate-Commerce Commission, 96.

SCHNEIDER v. STATE.
141

Syllabus.

constitutionality of such requirements was settled by
the Pipe Line Cases and we see nothing that excepts appellant from their effect. The smallness of the operation

is immaterial.8
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

SCHNEIDER v. STATE (TOWN OF IRVINGTON).*
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF
NEW JERSEY.

No. 11. Argued October 13, 16, 1939.-Decided November 22, 1939.
1. The freedom of speech and of the press secured by the First
Amendment against abridgment by the United States is similarly
secured to all persons by the Fourteenth Amendment against
abridgment by a State. P. 160.
2. It is a duty of municipal authorities, as trustees for the public,
to keep the streets open and available for movement of people
and property-the primary purpose to which the streets are dedicated; and to this end the conduct of those who use them may be
regulated; but such regulation must hot abiidge the constitutional
liberty of those who are rightfully upon the streets to impart
information through speech or the distribution of literature. Id.
3. The guaranty of freedom of speech and of the press does not deprive a municipality of power to enact regulations against stand'National Labor Relations Board v. Fainblatt,306 U. S. 601, 606.
* Together with No. 13, Kim Young v. California, on appeal from

the Appellate Department of the Superior Court of Los Angeles
County, California; No. 18, Snyder v. Milwaukee, certiorari to the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin; and No. 29, Nichols et al. v. Massachusetts, on appeal from the Superior Court of Worcester County
Massachusetts.

