UNITED STATES v. LOWDEN.

225

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. LOWDEN ET AL., TRUSTEES OF THE ESTATE OF THE CHICAGO, ROCK
ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY CO., ETC.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF. ILLINOIS.

No. 343.

Argued November 6, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.

Section 5 (4) (b) of the Interstate Commerce Act provides that
the Commission may authorize carriers to consolidate or lease
their properties where it finds that that action, subject to such
conditions and modifications as it shall find to be just and reasonable, will be in harmony with and in furtherance of the plan of
consolidation of railway properties established pursuant to paragraph (3) of that section and will promote the public interest.
Upon an application to the Interstate Commerce Commission for
authority to lease the road and properties of one railroad to another with consequent large savings in the operating costs of the
road, the Commission found that the proposed lease would promote the public interest, and authorized it upon conditions which
it found to be just and reasonable, viz. that the employees of the
leased road be compensated for a limited time for any reduction of
salary; that dismissed employees be paid partial compensation for
the loss of their employment; and that transferred employees be
paid moving and traveling expenses including losses incurred
through their being -forced to sell their houses. Held:
1. The term "public interest" as used in the statute may be
understood for the purposes of this case as relating not to public
interest in general but to public interest in the maintenance of an
adequate and efficient transportation service. P. 230.
2. The policy of 'consolidating the railways is so intimately
related to the maintenance of an adequate and efficient rail transportation system that the "public interest" in the one can not be
dissociated from that in the other. P. 232.
3. In determining whether conditions attached to an order
authorizing a lease will promote the public interest under § 5 (4)
(b), the Commission may consider their effect upon the national
policy of consolidation as well as their more immediate effect
upon the adequacy and efficiency of the transportation system.
P. 232.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Counsel for Parties.

308 U. S.

4. Interpreting the term "public 'interest" not in a general
sense but as meaning public interest in maintaining an adequate
and efficient transportation system, an order of the Commission
authorizing a lease under § 5 (4) (b) may affix reasonable conditions for the compensation of railway employees who will be
seriously affected. Pp. 228, 238.
5. It cannot be said as a matter of law, that the prescribed
conditions whose justice and reasonableness are not challenged will
not advance the public interest in the statutory sense by facilitating
the national policy of railroad consolidation and by promoting the
adequacy and efficiency of the railroad transportation system by
preventing interruption of interstate commerce through labor disputes and by their effect on employee morale. P. 238.
6. The Act as so applied is within the commerce power. P. 239.
7. The carrier is not deprived of property without due process
of law in being required to devote part of the savings resulting
from the exercise of the leasing privilege to compensate employees
for losses resulting from it. P. 240.
29 F. Supp. 9, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court of three
judges which set aside conditions attached by the Interstate Commerce Commission to an order permitting one
carrier to lease its railroad to another.

Mr. James C. Wilson, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Arnold, and Messrs.
Elmer B. Collins, Richard H. Demuth, Daniel W. Knowlton, and Edward M. Reidy -were on the brief, for appellants. '
Mr. W. F. Peter, w; %bwhom Messrs. Otis F. Glenn and
M. L. Bell were on the brief, for appellees.
By leave of Court, Messrs. Frank L. Mulholland, Clarence M. Mulholland, and Willard H. McEwen, on behalf
of the RailAway Labor Executives' Association, filed a brief,
as amici curiae, urging reversal.

UNITED STATES v. LOWDEN.
225

227

Opinion of the Court.

MR.JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This appeal raises the question whether the Interstate
Commerce Commission, in approving and authorizing e
lease of a railroad by one railroad company to another,
under § 5 (4) (b) of the Interstate Commerce Act as
amended, (48 Stat. 217, 49 U. S. C., § 5 (4) (b) enacted
in substance as § 407 (5) (6) of the Transportation Act
of 1920, 41 Stat. 481), has authority to prescribe as a
condition of its order, that certain employees of the lessor
shall receive partial compensation for the loss which they
may suffer, by reason of their discharge or transfer as a
result of the lease.
Appellees are trustees of the Chicago, Rock Island &
Gulf Company and of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacifi?
Railway Company, both in bankruptcy for purposes oi
reorganization under § 77 of the Bankruptcy Act. They
applied to the Interstate Commerce Commission for
authority under § 5 (4) (b) to lease the railroad and
properties of the Gulf Company to themselves as trustees
of the Pacific Company at an annual rental equal to the
net operating income of the leased property. On the
application, which was twice heard by the Commission,
evidence was submitted from which the Commission
found that the Gulf Company, whose entire capital stock
is owned by the Pacific Company, is owner of six hundred
and thirty-two miles of railroad in Texas which it operates separately from the 8,138 miles of railroad of the
Pacific Company; that the purpose of the proposed lease
was to combine the operation of the two lines in order
to effect savings in operating costs through the elimination of the Texas accounting offices of.the Gulf Company.
The Commission found that the lease would not impose upon the public any change in conditions affecting

228

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

train operation; that it would have no effect on rates or
routes and would result in no change of service to the
public. It found that the-elimination of the Texas accounting offices would result in an annual saving of $100,000, six or seven thousand dollars of which would accrue
to the Gulf Company and the remainder to the Pacific
Company, to be effected through the ultimate dismissal
of forty-nine of the Gulf accounting employees and the
transfer of twenty others to the Chicago offices of the
Pacific Company. The Commission also found that the
welfare of the employees affected by the elimination of
the accounting office is one of the matters of public interest which the Commission must consider in proceedings
under § 5 (4) (b).
It accordingly authorized the lease upon the conditions
which it found to be just and reasonable: that for a
period not exceeding five years each retained employee
should be compensated for any reduction in salary so
long as he, is unable, in the exercise of his seniority rights
under existing rules and practices to obtain a position
with compensation equal to his compensation at the date
of the lease; that dismissed employees unable to obtain
equivalent employment be paid partial compensation for
the loss of their employment in specified amounts and
for specified periods depending on the length of their
service, and that the transferred employees be pai, tLeir
traveling and moving expenses including losses incurred
through being forced to sell their homes. The maximum
cost of compliance with the conditions, it was found,
would be $290,000 spread over a period of five years,
during which the savings effected by the lease would be
not less than $500,000. The Commission found that the
proposed lease, with the specified conditions "will be in
harmony with and in furtherance of. our plan for the
consolidation of railroad properties and will promote the
public interest."

UNITED STATES v. LOWDEN.
225

229

Opinion of the Court.

In the present suit, brought by appellees, the district
court of three judges (Urgent Deficiencies Act of October
22, 1913, 38 Stat. 208, 219, 28 U. S. C., §§ 45, 47a), granted
the relief sought, and decreed that the conditions of the
Commission's order be set aside and that the Commission
be enjoined from enforcing them. The case comes here
on appeal under § 238 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C.,
§ 345.
Appellees contend, as the district court held, that the
Commission was without the authority of any act of
Congress to attach the prescribed conditions to its order.
Consequently, they argue that the courts may appropriately set them aside as of no effect, leaving the remainder
of the order to stand as the Commission's unqualified
approval of the lease, although the Commission gave no
indication that it would have authorized the lease without
the conditions.
Section 5 (4) (a) provides that "it shall be lawful, with
the approval . . of the Commission, as provided in
subdivision (b), for two or more carriers to consolidate or merge their properties . . or for any carrier
. . . to . . . lease . . . the properties . . . of another
."
Subdivision (b) provides that the Commission
on application by the carrier or carriers concerned may,
after hearing, authorize such a consolidation or lease, and
directs that "if after such hearing the Commission finds
that, subject to such terms and conditions and such modifications as it shall find to be just and reasonable' the
proposed consolidation... Torl lease.., will b in
harmony with and in furtherance of the plan fol the
consolidation of railway properties established pursuant
to paragraph (3), and will promote the public interest,
it may enter an order approving . . . such consolidation
S. .[or]
lease . . . upon the terms and conditions and
with the modifications so found to be just and reasonable."
I

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1930
.Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

In New York Central Securities Corp. v. United States,
287 U. S. 12, we pointed out that the phrase "public interest" in this section does not refer generally to matters
of public concern apart from the public interest in the
maintenance of an adequate rail transportation system;
that it is used in a more restricted sense defined by reference to the purposes of the Transportation Act of 1920,
of which the section is a part and which, as had been
recognized in earlier opinions of this Court, sought
through the exercise of the new authority given to the
Commission to secure a more adequate and efficient
transportation system. See New England Divisions
Cases, 261 U. S. 184; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v.
United States, 263 U. S. 456; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Gulf, C. & S. F. Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266, 277. Thus restricted, the term public interest "as used in the statute,
is not a mere general reference to public welfare but as
shown by the context and purposes of the Act has direct
relation to adequacy of transportation service, to its
essential conditions of economy and efficiency and to
appropriate provision and best use of transportation
facilities." Texas v. United States, 292 U. S. 522, 531.
Appellees do not challenge the Commission's contention
that the conditions are germane to the transaction involved in the lease because the purpose of the conditions
is to mitigate the direct effect of the lease upon the employees. See United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R.
Co., 282 U. S. 311, 324, 339, 340. But they insist that
the conditions which the Commission is permitted by this
section to attach to its order must also conform to the
standard of public interest which the statute sets up to
guide the Commission's action. From this premise they
argue that the prescribed conditions are unauthorized because unrelated to the public interest in its statutory sense.
Thev maintain that a carrier's employees, as such, are

UNITED STATES v. LOWDEN.
225

Opinion of the Court.

not part of the public whose interest is to be promoted
by the lease, and that their interest in keeping their
employment without loss of compensation is of private
concern and no part of that public interest in the maintenance of an adequate and efficient transportation system
which the statute contemplates.
Accepting the premise, as we may for present purposes,
without considering the contention of the Commission
that the conditions if just and reasonable, need not be
related to the other statutory standards, the issue is
narrowed to a single question whether we can say, as
matter of law, that the granting or withholding of the
protection afforded to the employees by the prescribed
conditions can have no influence or effect upon the maintenance of an adequate and efficient transportation system which the statute recognizes as a matter of public
concern.
Appellees do not attack the sufficiency of the evidence
on which the Commission's findings are based, and that
evidence was not submitted to the district court for review. Hence we are free to disturb the findings only if
we can say that there can be no rational basis for them.
Mississippi Valley Barge Line Co. v. United States, 292
U. S. 282; Swayne & Hoyt, Ltd. v. United States, 300
U. S. 297, 304; Rochester Telephone Corp. v. United
States, 307 U. S. 125, 146. Appellees do not deny that
the use of part of the savings resulting from the lease
to compensate the employees for the loss which it will
occasion, is just and reasonsble so far as the interest and
relations of employer and employee are concerned; or
that the lease will be in harmony with and further the
Commission's plan for consolidation of the railroads as
the Commission found. They urge only that.the conditions imposed can have no relationship to the maintenance of an adequate and efficient transportation system

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

-308 U. S.

and in consequence cannot in any circumstances be said
to promote the public interest in the statutory sense.
The proposed lease in its relation to the transfer or dismissal of employees and to an adequate and efficient
transportation system, is not to be viewed as an isolated
transaction or apart from the Commission's plan for consolidation of the railroads. As a result of the enactment
of the Transportation Act in 1920, consolidation of the
railroads of the country, in the interest of economy and
efficiency, became an established national policy, and the
effective consolidation of the railroads in conformity to
-the provisions of the Act and to the plan of consolidation
which the Commission was directed to prepare became a
matter of public interest. The policy of consolidation is
so intimately related to the maintenance of an adequate
.and efficient rail transportation system that the "public
interest" in the one cannot be dissociated from that in the
other. Hence, in considering whether the public interest,
under § 5 (4) (b) will be promoted by the conditions of
an order authorizing a consolidation or lease, the Commission is free to consider their effect upon the national
policy of consolidation as well as their more immediate
effect on the adequacy and efficiency of the transportation
system.
Obedient to the mandate of § 5 (2) of the Act the
Commission has prepared and published *a plan under
which -itis proposed that the railroads of the country be
consolidated into a limited number of large systems.
Consolidation of Railroads, 159 I. C. C. 522, 185 I. C. C.
403. By§ 5 of the Act the ban on consolidation of
railway carriers was removed, and acting under it the
Commission has granted authority for numerous consolidations and leases in furtherance of the plan. In the
preparation and execution ox the plan it speedily became
apparent that the great savings which would result from
consolidation could not be effected without profoundly

UNITED STATES v. LOWDEN.
225

Opinion of the Court.

affecting the private interests of those immediately concerned in the maintenance of the existing nationwide railway system, the railroad security holders and employees.
The security holders are usually, though not always favorably affected by economies resulting from consolidation. 1 But the Commission has estimated in its report
on unification of the railroads that 75% of the savings
will be at the expense of railroad labor. Not only must
unification result in wholesale dismissals and extensive
transfers, involving expense to transferred employees, but
in the loss of seniority rights which, by common practice
of the railroads are restricted in their operation to those
n embers of groups who are employed at specified points
or divisions. It is thus apparent that the steps involved
in carrying out the Congressional policy of railroad consolidation in such manner as to secure the desired economy
and efficiency will unavoidably subject railroad labor relations to serious stress and its harsh consequences may so
seriously affect employee morale as to require their mitigation both in the interest of the successful prosecution
of the Congressional policy of consolidation and of the
efficient operation of the industry itself,2 both of which
are of public concern within the meaning of the statute.
'Inseveral cases the Commission has disapproved proposals. for
consolidations and for acquisition of control because of a failure to
deal fairly with minority stockholders. Nickel Plate Unification, 105
I. C. C. 425; Unification of Southwestern Lines, 124 I. C. C. 401. In.
others it has approved the. proposal on condition that these objections
be removed. Buffalo, Rochester & Pittsburgh R. Co., 158 I. C. C.
779; Buffalo & Susquehanna R. Corp. Control, 162 I. C. C. 656;
Upper Coos R. Control, 166 I. C. C. 76; Springfield Terminal Ry. Co.
Control, 166 I. C. C. 90; Denver & Salt Lake R. Co. Control, 170
I. C. C. 4; St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. Control, 180 I. C. C. 175.
See United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 282 U. S.311, 337.,
2 On several occasions strikes of railroad employees affected by consolidations of plant facilities have threatened. To avoid interruption
of. transportation service an Emergency Board was invoked in 1929

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

One must disregard the entire history of railroad labor
relations in the United States to be able to say that the
just and reasonable treatment of railroad employees in
mitigation of the hardship imposed on them in carrying
out the national policy of railway consolidation, has no
bearing on the successful prosecution of that policy and'
no relationship to the maintenance of an adequate and
efficient transportation system. As was pointed out by
Commissioner Eastman in his concurring opinion in this
case the protection afforded to employees by the challenged conditions is substantially that provided in event
of consolidation by "an agreement entered into in May,
1936, between 219, the great majority, of the railroad
lines of the country, and 21 labor organizations.3 He
also directed attention to the fact that the Committee
of Six, three of whom were railroad executives, in their
report to the President of December 23, 1938, recommended that the federal agency passing upon railroad
consolidation "require as a prerequisite to approval a fair
and equitable arrangement to protect the interests of
. . . employees," and that this report had been apUnder the Railway Labor Act of 1926 to arbitrate the dispute between
the railroad and the employees of the Texas & Pacific Railway Company. The Board awarded the employees compensation for loss from

depreciation of the value of their homes (cf. Clause 4 in the order here
involved). The Board, after extensive hearings, found that such a
requirement was reasonable in view of the fact that railroads themselves had on several prior occasions compensated the employees affected. 28 Monthly Labor Review, 1191 (1929). See also 43 Monthly
Labor Review, 867 (1936) where dismissal compensation was agreed
upon in similar circumstances under threat of a strike.
'The Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific System, represented here by
appelee, was a party to this agreement. 42 Monthly Labor Review
1503 (1936); 57 Traffic World 995 (1936).
'Report of Cmaittee appointed September 20, 1938, by the President df the United States, to submit recommendations upon the gen-

eral transpdrtation situation (December 23, 1938).

UNITED STATES v. LOWDEN.
225

Opinion of the Court.

proved by the directors of the Association of American
Railroads.
We can hardly suppose that the railroads, in entering
into this agreement and endorsing this recommendation
left out of account their own interest in the paintenance
of transportation service or that their interest in this
respect differs or is separable from that of the public
interest. In fact, before this action by the railroads the
Commission. itself had taken the view that the welfare
of dismissed employees must be considered in passing
upon proposed consolidations,5 and in its sixth annual
report in 1892 it declared in recognition of the same
principle, that "relation existing between railway corporations and their employees are always of public interest.'
The Federal Coordinator of Railroads, in his.
fourth annual report to Congress in 1936, recommended
the enactment of a comprehensive system of dismissal
compensation, stating that such a system "would enhance the safety or efficiency of railroad service." H.
Doc. No. 394, 74th Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 56.7
The now extensive history of legislation regulating the
relations of rlailroad employees and employers plainly evidences the awareness of Congress that just and reasonable
treatment of railroad employees is not only an essential
'Consolidation of Railroads, 185 I. C. C. 403, 427; Unification of
Lines in Southern New Jersey, 193 I. C. C. 183, 198; St. Paul Bridge
& Terminal Ry. Co. Control, 199 I. C. C. 588. For later cases to the
same effect, see Associated Railways Company Acquisition and Securities, 228 I. C. C. 277, 336; Louisiana & Arkansas Ry. Co., Merger,
230 I. C. C. 156; Louisiana & Arkansas Ry. Co., Control, 233 I. C. C.
37, 123.
*Sixth Annual Report of Interstate Commerce Commission (1892),
p. 323.
'For a similar conclusion, see J. Douglas Brown, et al., Railway
Labor Survey, Social Science Research Council, Division of Industry
& Trade (i933), 1, 94; Robertson, The Stake of Railroad Labor in the
Transportation Problem, 187 Ann. Am. Acad. 88 (1936).

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

aid to the maintenance of a service uninterrupted by
labor disputes, but that it promotes efficiency, which
suffers through loss of employee morale when the demands of justice are ignored. Title 3 of the Transportation Act of 1920,8 which was enacted at the same time as
the provisions reenacted in substance in § 5 (4) (b), set
up a "Labor Board" to decide railroad labor disputes
involving grievances, rules and working conditions, and
declared in § 301 "it shall be the duty of all carriers
and their officers, employees, and agents, to cxert every
reasonable effort and adopt every available means to
avoid any interruption to. the operation of any carrier
growing out of any dispute between the carrier or employees or subordinate officials." Congress has passed
successive measures for arbitration of railroad disputes
betwMeen railroad employees and employers, all aimed at
the prevention of interruptions of railroad service
"throigh such disputes, and culminating in the passage
of the Railway Labor Act of 1926, 44 Stat. 577, and in
its amendments in 1934, 48 Stat. 1185, 45 U S. C.,
§§ 151, 163; Texas & New Orleans R. Co. v. Brotherhood of Railway & Steamship Clerks, 281 U. S. 548;
Virginian Ry. Co. v. Federation, 300 U. S. 515. By
the agner Labor Relations Act of 1935, 49 Stat. 449,
This Act resulted from the experiences of the. Director-General in
operating the railroads during the World War period. Sharfman, The
Interstate Commerce Commission, Vol. I, p. 181. The Director-General recognized the necessity of maintaining a loyal and devoted personnel in the interest of uninterrupted service. Thirty-third Annual
RepQrt of the Interstate Commerce Commission (1919), p. 4. In
agreements executed by the Director-General with several railroad
unions, .provision was made for protection of seniority rights and for
free transportation for the employee, his family and household goods
(cf. Clau-e 3 of order here involved), when consolidations of facilities
.were ordered by. the Director-General. See Agreemen between the
Director-General of Railroads and -the Brotherhood of Railway and
Steamship. Clerks, Freight Handlers, Express and Station Employees
(1920), Rule 77.

UNITED STATES v. LOWDEN.
225

Opinion of the Court.

29 U. S. C., 151, it recognized and sought to prevent the
interference with interstate commerce which may ensue
from labor disputes arising in industry not engaged in
transportation. See National Labor Relations Board
v. Jones & Laughlin. Steel Corp., 301 U. S. 1, 42;
National Labor Relations Board v. Fainblatt,306 U. S.
601, 604.
The Safety Appliance Act of 1893, 27 Stat. 531; see
Southern Railway Co. v. United States, 222 U. S.20; the
Hours of Service Act of 1907, 34 Stat. 1415; see Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, '221 U. S.
612, and the Federal Employers Liability Act of 1908, 35
Stat. 65; seeSecond Employers' Liability Cases, 223 U. S.
1, 51, were designed mainly to insure the safety and welfare of railroad employees and the constitutionality of
those measures was sustained in part on the ground that
they fostered the commerce in which the employees were
engaged.. In passing the Adamson Act of 1916, 39 Stat.
721, fixing the wages of railroad employees, Congress
thought that it was safeguarding the railroads of the
country from interruption which might result from labor
disputes and the constitutionality of the Act was sustained
on that ground. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332, 351. Ard
in the Act of 1934, as amended in 1937, 48 Stat. 1283; 50
Stat 307, 45 U. S. C., §§ 201, 214, 228 (a) to (r), providing
for a retirement and pension plan for railroad employees,
Congress declared in terms that the plan was adopted
for the purpose of "promoting efficiency and safety in
interstate transportation."
In the last regular session of Congress, an act to amend
the Interstate Commerce Act was passed by the Senate,
S. 2009, 76th Cong., 1sf Sess. The House passed a substitute bill embodying extensive changes. H. Rept. 1217,
76th Cong., 1st Sess. Both bills are now in conference.
But both as passed contain a provision carrying into
effect the recommendation of the Committee of Six, see

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

-

308 U. S.

S. Rept. 433, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 29, by directing
the Commission to require "as a prerequisite to its approval of any proposed-transaction [consolidation or lease
under § 5 (4) (b)] a fair and equitable arrangement to
protect the interest of the employees affected. ' Both
bills as enacted declare it "to be the national transportation policy of the Congress . . . to encourage fair wages

and equitable working conditions, all to the end of developing, coordinating and preserving a national transportation system . .,. by . . . rail . . .adequate to meet the
needs of the commerce of the United States . . ." Con-

gress has thus declared that fair and equitable provision
for the compensation of losses thrown upon employees as
the result of an authorized consolidation or lease promotes the national transportation policy by developing,
co~rdinating and preserving the railroad transportation
system.
In the light of this record of practical experience and
Congressional legislation, we cannot say that the just
and reasonable conditions imposed on appellees in this
case will not promote the public interest in its statutory
meaning by facilitating the national policy of railroad
consolidation; that it will not tend to prevent interruption of interstate commerce through labor disputes growing out of labor grievances, or that it will not promote
that efficiency of service which common experience teaches
is advanced by the just and reasonable treatment of th6se
who serve. In the light of that record too we do not
doubt that Congress, by its choice of the broad language
of § 5 (4) (b) intended at least to permit the Commission, in authorizing railroad consolidations and leases, to
impose upon carriers conditions related, as these are, to
the public policy of the Transportation Act to facilitate
railroad consolidation, and to promote the adequacy and
efficiency of the railroad transportation system.

UNITED STATES v. LOWDEN.
225

239

Opinion of the Court.

The fact that a bill has recently been introduced m
Congress and approved by. both its houses, requiring as
a matter of national railway transportation policy the
protection of employees such as the Commission has
given here, does not militate against this conclusion.
Doubts which the Commission at one time entertained
but later resolved in favor of its authority to impose the
conditions, were followed by the recommendation of the
Committee of Six that fair and equitable arrangements
for the protection of employees be "required." It was
this recommendation which was embodied in the new
legislation. Sen. Rep. No. 433, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p.
29. We think the only effect of this action was to give
legislative emphasis to a policy and a practice already
recognized by § 5 (4) (b) by making the practice mandatory instead of discretionary, as it had been under the
earlier act.
It is said that the statute, as we -have construed it, is
unconstitutional because not within the Congressional
power to regulate interstate commerce and is a denial
of due process. It is true that in Railroad Retirement
Board v. Alton R. Co., 295 U. S. 330, in declaring the
Railroad Retirement Act of June 27, 1934, 48 Stat. 1283,
not to be a valid regulation of interstate commerce, it
was said, among other reasons advanced to support that
conclusion, that a compulsory retirement system for railroad employees can have no relation to the promotion
of efficiency, economy or safety of railroad operation.
But notwithstanding what was said there and even if we
were doubtful whether the particular provisions made
here for the protection of employees could have the effect
which we have indicated upon railroad consolidation and
upon the adequacy and efficiency of the railroad transportation system, we could not say that the Congressional judgment that those conditions have a relation to

24i
0

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

the public interest as~dfined by the statute is without
rational basis. Cf. South Carolina Highway Dept. v.
Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177, 189, 191; United States v.
Carolene Products Co., 304 U. S. 144, 147; Pitman v.
Home Owners' Loan Corp., ante, p. 21."
If we are right in our conclusion that the statute is a
permissible regulation of interstate commerce, the exercise of that power to foster, protect and control the commerce with proper regard for the welfare of those who
are immediately concerned in it, as well as the public at
large, is undoubted. Second Employers' Liability Cases,
supra, 47; Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. Co. v. United States,
263 U. S. 456, 478; United States v. Carolene Products
Co., supra, 147; Mulford v. Smith, 307 U. S. 38. Nor do
we perceive any basis for saying that there is a denial
of due process by a regulation otherwise permissible,
whicb, extends to the carrier a privilege relieving it of the
costs, of performance of its carrier duties, on condition
that the savings be applied in part to compensate the
loss to employees occasioned by the exercise of the privilege. That was decided in principle in Dayton-Goose
Creek Ry. Co. v. United States, supra. There it was held
that the Fifth Amendment does not forbid the compulsory application of income, attributable to a privilege
enjoyed by a railroad as a result of Commission action,
to specified purposes "in the furtherance of the public
interest in railroad transportation." § 422(10), Transportation Act, 41 Stat. 490. Moreover we cannot say
that this limited and special application of the principle,
fully recognized in our cases sustaining workmen's compensation acts, that a business may be required to carry
the burden of employee wastage incident to its operation,
infringes due process. Second Employers' -Liability
Cases, supra; New York Central R. Co. v. White, 243
U. S. 188; Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S.
219; Cudahy Packing Co. v. Parramore, 263 U. S. 418.
Reversed.

