UNION STOCK YARD CO. v. U. S.
208

213

Syllabus.

roneous pronouncement below, will be matter for
consideration when the cause comes again before the
Circuit Court of Appeals.
Reversed.
UNION STOCK YARD & TRANSIT CO. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 40. Argued November 10, 13, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.
1. Transportation of livestock by rail begins with its delivery to the
carrier for loading on its cars, and ends only after unloading, for
delivery or tender to the consignee, at the place of destination.
P. 219.
2. The Union Stock Yard and Transit Company of Chicago loads
and unloads livestock using platforms and chutes which it owns
and which are the necessary and only means of loading and unloading at its yard, to and from which the livestock is shipped
interstate. Its charges to the railroads for these services are included in the charges for transportation collected by the railroads
from the shippers. Its yard is the principal railroad terminal
in Chicago for the receipt of livestock in carload lots. It holds
itself out to the public as performing the loading and unloading
service, and permits it to be performed by no other. Held, that
it is engaged in providing "terminal facilities" in the performance
of "transportation service" and is a "common carrier . . . railroad" within the meaning of the Interstate Commerce Act; and
as such its charges are subject to regulation by the Interstate
Commerce Commission. P. 219.
3. The Stock Yard Company is such a common carrier and is subject
to regulation of its rates under the Act notwithstanding that, as an
incident to the service it renders to shippers and to the line-haul
carriers, it acts as agent of the latter, and notwithstanding that its
terminal service includes no rail haul. Distinguishing Ellis v.
Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237 U. S. 434. P. 220.
4. In as much as the Interstate Commerce Act places the loading
and unloading facilities and services under the authority oi the
Interstate Commerce Commission, they are excluded from the

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture under the Packers and
Stockyards Act by the terms of § 406 of the latter enactment.
P. 221.
5. To the issue whether the service rendered by the Stock Yard
Company in loading and unloading livestock is such as to bring
it within the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
the practices by others at other yards are irrelevant, and their
bearing on the administrative construction of the statute in the
,present circumstances is held too remote and indecisive to compel
a burdensome inquiry by the Commission into collateral issues.
P. 222.
Mere inaction, through failure of the Commission to institute
proceedings under § 15 (7), is not an administrative ruling and
does not imply decision as to the Commission's jurisdiction.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree dismissing a suit to set aside an
order of the Interstate Commerce Commission.

Mr. Frederick H. Wood, with whom Messrs. Ralph M.
Shaw, William F. Riley, Guy A. Gladson, Thomas T.
Cooke, and Bryce L. Hamilton were on the brief, for
appellant.
Mr. Daniel W. Knowlton, with whom Solicitor General
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General Arnold and Mr.
Elmer B. Collins were on the brief, for the United States
et al.; Mr. Lee J. Quasey for National Live Stock Marketing Assn.; and Mr. Douglas F. Smith, with whom Mr.
Kenneth F. Burgess was on the brief, for the intervening
railroad companies,-appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The principal question for decision upon this appeal
is whether, in the services performed by appellant in
loading and unloading livestock at its stockyards in Chicago, and specified by its tariffs filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, it, is a common carrier subject

UNION STOCK YARD CO. v. U. S.
213

Opinion. of the Court.

to the Interstate Commerce Act, 24 Stat. 379, as amended
in 1920; 41 Stat. 474, 49 U. S. C., §§ 1-27.
-The case comes here on appeal from the final decree
of a district court of three judges,' dismissing appellant's
suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission, which directed the cancellation of appellant's supplemental schedule proposing cancellation of its
rate schedules previously filed with the Commission.
Cancellation of Livestock Services, 227 I. C. C. 716.
Appellant here, as below, assails the Commission's order
on the ground that in performing the scheduled services
appellant is not within the jurisdiction of the Commission
as defined by the Interstate Commerce Act.
As appears in the Commission's report, appellant was
incorporated in 1865 with authority to build and operate
a railroad and a stockyard, and with power of eminent
domain. Acting under its charter it constructed a stockyard in Chicago and approximately three hundred miles
of railroad tracks, consisting of a main line connecting
with the trunk lines entering Chicago and switches to
various industries located adjacent to its tracks.
Prior to 1912 it had tried various methods of operating
its tracks and stockyards. At that time it did not control
any of its railroad properties other than platforms and
facilities for loading and unloading at its yard. The
Chicago Junction Railway Co., which, with appellant,
was controlled by a single holding company, operated the
railroad under a fifty-year lease, paying to appellant as
rental two-thirds of its net profits. In that year the
United States brought suit to restrain appellant and the
Junction Company from further operations in interstate
commerce until they filed tariffs as required by § 6' of
the Interstate Commerce Act. The litigation resulted
§§ 210 and 238 (4) of the Judicial Code as amended by the Act of
February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43 Stat. 983, 28 U. S. C., §§ 47a, 345.

216

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

in the decision of this Court that both were common
carriers subject to the Act. United States v. Union Stock
Yard & Transit Co., 226 U. S. 286. Appellant then filed
a rate schedule with the Commission specifying its
charges for loading and unloading all rail-borne livestock,
and continued its practice of performing services in loading and unloading from and to its livestock pens for the
trunk line railroads, charging them the scheduled, rates
for the service.
In the following year the Junction Company lease was
cancelled and a new one executed, under which appellant
leased in perpetuity all of its railroad facilities, except
those used for loading and unloading livestock, at an
annual rental of $600,000 in lieu of a share of the profits.
This was followed in 1917 by an attempt by the stockyard
to charge shippers an additional amount for the loading
and unloading service, which resulted in a reparation
award by the Commission, sustained in Adams v. Mills,
286 U. S. 397. In the same year appellant sought to
cancel its tariffs on the ground that by reason of the
change in the lease it was no longer a common carrier.
This contention was rejected by the Commission. Livestock Loading and Unloading Charges, 52 I. C. C. 209; 58
I. C. C. 164.
In 1922 the Junction Company, with the approval of
the Commission, Chicago Junction Case, 71 I. C. C. 631,
150 I. C. C. 32, sublet the road for ninety-nine years, with
a renewal option, to the Chicago River & Indiana Railroad Co., whose capital stock was acquired by the New
York Central Railroad Company. A renewed attempt
by the stockyard to cancel its tariffs failed in 1935, 213
I. C. C. 330, and its 1937 repetition resulted in the like
order of the Commission, which is the subject of the
present suit.
By ceasing to operate or control its railroad directly or
indirectly appellant has restricted its transportation serv-

UNION STOCK YARD CO. v. U. S.
213

Opinion of the Court.

ice to the loading or unloading of livestock as specified
in its tariff. It owns the platforms and chutes which
are the necessary and only means of loading and unloading at its yard to and from which the livestock is shipped
interstate by rail. For this service it charges the railroads the scheduled rates. Loading and unloading are
included in the transportation service rendered by the
railroads to shippers, the charge for it to shippers being
covered by the line-haul tariffs. The Commission found
that appellant's yard is the principal railroad terminal
in Chicago for the receipt of livestock in carload lots,
and that appellant holds itself out to the public as performing the loading and unloading service and permits it
to be performed by no other.
Appellant contends that having divested itself of all
control and participation in the operation of its railroad
it is no longer within the jurisdiction of the Commission
over "common carriers by railroad," conferred by the
Interstate Commerce Act, but is subject to regulation by
the Secretary of Agriculture, under the Packers and
Stockyards Act of 1921, 42 Stat. 159, 7 U. S. C..
§§ 181-229.
By § 305 of that Act rates and charges for stockyard
services furnished at a stockyard or by a stockyard owner
are required to be just and reasonable. And by §§ 309,
310, the Secretary is given authority to regulate such
rates. By § 301 stockyard services are defined as "services
or facilities furnished at a -stockyard in connection with
the receiving, buying or selling . . . marketing, feeding,
watering, holding, delivery, shipment, weighing, or handling, in commerce, of livestock." It will be noted that
the loading and unloading of livestock are not specifically
included in the definition of stockyard services. Further,
an important exception to the broad authority of the
Secretary is made by § 406, which provides: "Nothing
in this chapter shall affect the power or the jurisdiction of

218

OCTOBER TERM. 139.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.'

the Interstate Commerce Commission, nor confer upon
the Secretary concurrent power or jurisdiction over any
matter within the power or jurisdiction of suh Commission." We accordingly turn to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act to determine the extent of the
exception.
Section 6(1) of the Interstate Commerce Act provides
that a common carrier subject to the provisions of the
sections presently to be mentioned, where no joint rate
is involved, shall file schedules of rates showing "the
separately established rates ... applied to the through
transportation" and requires that the rate schedules shall
"state separately all terminal charges . . .and all other
charges which the Commission may require, all privileges
or facilities granted or allowed, and any rules or regulations which in anywise change, affect or determine any
part of the aggregate of such aforesaid rates . . . or the
value of the service rendered to the passenger, shipper,
or consignee."
Section 1(1) of the Interstate Commerce Act declares:
"The provisions of this part shall apply to common carriers engaged in (a) the transportation of passengers or
property wholly by railroad . . ." Section 1(3) provides
that the term railroad shall include "...
all the road in
use by any common carrier operating a railroad . . . all
switches, spurs, tracks, terminals and terminal facilities of
every kind used or necessary in the transportation ...
of . . .persons or property . . including all freight
depots, yards or grounds used or necessary in the transportation or delivery of any such property." It defines
the term "transportation" as including "locomotives, cars,
• . .and all instrumentalities and facilities of shipment
or carriage irrespective of ownership, or of any contract,
express or implied, for the use thereof, and all services in
connection with the receipt, delivery, elevation and transfer in transit . . . and handling of property transported."

UNION STOCK YARD CO. v. U. S.
213

219

Opinion of the Court.

Section 15(5) provides, "Transportation wholly by railroad of ordinary livestock in carload lots destined to or
received at public stockyards shall include all necessary
service of unloading and reloading enroute, delivery at
public stockyards of inbound shipments into suitable pens,
and receipt and loading at such yards of outbound shipments, without extra charge therefor to the shipper,
consignee, or owner
Without the aid of these statutes the transportation
of livestock by rail was held to begin with its delivery
to the carrier for loading onto its cars, and to end only
after unloading for delivery or tender to the consignee
at the place of destination. Covington Stock-Yards Co.
v. Keith, 139 U. S. 128, 136. The same rule has been
repeatedly applied since the statute was adopted. Erie
R. Co. v. Shuart, 250 U. S. 465, 468; Atchison, T. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. United States, 295 U. S. 193, 198, and cases
cited; Denver Union Stock Yard Co. v. United States,
304 U. S. 470; 2 Hutchison, Carriers, 3d ed. § 510. Appellant is thus engaged in the performance of a railroad
transportation service and provides railroad "terminal
facilities" and services. It is a "carrier" engaged in
"transportation of property wholly by railroad" as those
terms are defined by the words of the statute.
That appellant's stockyard is a terminal of the linehaul carriers, and that it performs their railroad terminal
services within the meaning of the Act was recognized
in Adams v. Mills, supra, 409, and also in Atchison, T. &
S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, supra. There the Commission's order directing the discontinuance of appellant's yardage charge to consignees was set aside on the
sole ground that the Commission's findings failed to show
that the service for which the charge was made was any
part of the loading or unloading services, or otherwise
a service which the rail carrier was bound to furnish.

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

The statute, it is true, does not purport to say when
one who is a railroad carrier because engaged in furnishing railroad terminal facilities and services, is to be
deemed a "common carrier." But that question was put
at rest in United States v. Brooklyn Eastern District
Terminal, 249 U. S. 296. There a local terminal company rendering terminal services as the agent of numerouF1 rail carriers, was held to be engaged in a public or
common calling, and hence to be a common carrier within
the meaning of the Hours of Service Act, 34 Stat. 1415,
which is applicable to any common carrier by railroad
engaged in interstate commerce. Cf. Southern Pacific
Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 219 U. S.
498; United States v. California, 297 U. S. 175, 181;
United States v. Sioux City Stock Yards Co., 162 F. 556.
It is not important as appellant seems to think, that,
as an incident to the service it renders to shippers and
to the line-haul carriers, it acts as agent of the latter.
The character of the service, in its relation to the public,
determines whether the calling is a public one, and a
common carrier does not cease to be. such merely because
in rendering service to the public it acts as the agent of
another. United States v. Brooklyn Eastern District
Terminal, supra, 307. Connecting common carriers frequently act in that capacity for each other without losing
their status as such.
Nor is it of weight that the terminal service includes
no rail-haul (see Southern Pacific Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 219 U. S. 498) or that operation and control of the terminal facilities are wholly separate from
those of any railroad. United States v. Brooklyn Eastern
District Terminal, supra,305. It is enough that the loading and unloading are rail transportation 'services performed at a railroad terminal as a common or public
calling by one who, in rendering it, engages in the trans-

UNION STOCK YARD CO. v. U. S.
213

Opinion of the Court.

portation of property by railroad within the meaning
of the Act.
Ellis v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 237 U. S. 434,
on which appellant relies, does not hold otherwise. There
the Commission sought a district court order to compel
the examination of witnesses in a proceeding, instituted
by the Commission of its own motion, for the investigation of a corporation which leased refrigerator cars to
shippers and railroads and maintained icing plants at
which it iced the cars, the railroad paying for the icing
service. There was no allegation or proof that the corporation was engaged in a common calling or held itself
out as ready or willing to supply cars or services on reasonable request. In holding that the case was not an
appropriate one for the relief sought because the company was not within the jurisdiction of the Commission,
the Court said, p. 443: "It is true that the definition of
transportation in § 1 of the act includes such instrumentalities as the Armour car lines lets to the railroads,
but the definition is a preliminary to the requirement
that the carrier shall furnish them upon reasonable request, not that the owners and builders shall be regarded
as carriers, contrary to the truth."
This Court has since recognized that loading and unloading services such as are here involved are common
carrier services placed under the authority of the Commission by the Interstate Commerce Act. Atchison, T.
& S. F. Ry. Co. v. United States, supra; Denver Union
Stock Yard Co. v. United States, supra, 477. And unless
the restriction of § 406 of the Packers and Stockyards
Act upon the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture
in favor of that of the Commission refers to such services,
the purpose of the section is not apparent. None other
is suggested. See Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. United
States, supra, 199. As we think the statute plainly places

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

appellant's loading and unloading facilities and services
under the authority of the Commission, they are withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture by the terms of § 406 of the Packers and Stockyards
Act,' and we find it unnecessary to consider the question,
much argued at the Bar, whether the services could be
more conveniently and advantageously regulated by the
one administrative agency than by the other.
Appellant asks that the order be set aside for want of
the "full hearing" by the Commission, required by
§ 15(7) of the Interstate Commerce Act. In the course of
the hearings before the Commission appellant offered
in a variety of ways to prove the conditions prevailing
at stockyards other than appellant's, and that the Commission had not asserted jurisdiction over loading and
'If this were doubtful, doubt would be removed by the legislative
history. S. 3944, 66th Congress, in providing a Federal Livestock
Commission to regulate packers and stockyards did not contain such a
saving clause. The House Committee on Agriculture proposed a substitute bill giving control of the stockyards to the Interstate Commerce
Commission because "the Commission already has control over transportation of cattle, which does not end until they are unloaded at the
yards. . .

."

H. Rept. 1297, 66th Cong., 3rd Sess., p. 9.

In the 67th Congress the House Committee on Agriculture proposed
the bill substantially in the form finally adopted as the Packers and
Stockyards Act, containing the saving clause in favor of the Commerce
Commission. The Chairman in introducing the bill in the House said:
"It is proposed to give the Secretary of Agriculture jurisdiction over
the packers, stockyards, commission men, traders, buyers, and sellers,
and all activities connected with the slaughtering and marketing of
livestock and live-stock products in interstate commerce; that is the
Secretary shall have jurisdiction from the time the livestock is unloaded at the terminal yards and after it is out of the jurisdiction of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. Up to the time of unloading
the livestock the Interstate Cominerce Commission has jurisdiction
over the shipment, distribution, and ownership of stock, refrigerator
cars, and other equipment, and transportation rates, including belt
lines and terminal roads." Cong. Rec., Vol. 61, Part 2. p. 1800.

UNION STOCK YARD CO. v. U. S.
213

Opinion of the Court.

,nloading services performed at those yards. Appellant
states that the evidence would have shown that there are
one hundred and thirty-five other stockyards in the
United States under regulation by the Secretary of Agriculture,8 which perform loading and unloading services,
for which the railroads pay, under conditions similar to
those in the Chicago yard; that although, to the knowledge of the Commission, this has been the case for many
years, it has not asserted its jurisdiction over any of
these yards. This, it is argued, would-have established
a practical construction of the statute by the Commission,
relevant and material to the inquiry because of the rule
that a settled or uniform administrative construction of
a doubtful statute is of weight in determining its meaning. Boston & Maine Railroad v. Hooker, 233 U. S.97;
Pocket Veto Case, 279 U. S. 655, 688, 689; Louisville
& Nashville R. Co. v. United States, 282 U. S.'740. The
exclusion of the proffered evidence by the C~mmission
and its alleged failure to make a proper record of the
offer, it is urged, have deprived the. appellant of a full
hearing.
We think the record adequately shows that the Commission excluded the offered proof as appellant has characterized it here, but we conclude that the Commission
was free to reject it. The issue to be resolved in the
present proceeding is whether the service rendered by
appellant at its Chicago stockyard brought it within the
jurisdiction of the Commission. To this issue the practices by others at other yards. are irrelevant and their
bearing on the administrative construction of the statute
'The Secretary has not asserted jurisdiction over the loading and
unloading service at public stockyards. Secretary of Agriculture v.
Denver Union Stock Yard Co., Bureau of Animal Industry Docket
No. 450, p. 10 (1937); see letter to Chairman of Sepate Committee on
Agriculture and Forestry, Hearings on S. 2129, 75th Cong., 1st Sess.,
p. 6 .

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

in the present circumstances is, we think, too remote and
indecisive to compel a burdensome inquiry into collateral
issues.
The Commission has consistently ruled-that appellant's
loading and unloading services are within its jurisdiction
under conditions which appear of record to have remained unchanged since 1922. Appellant is free, as it has
been throughout, to show any ruling or action taken by
the Commission involving an administrative construction
of the statute, although it is plain that in the face of the
present record such rulings could not establish a consistent acceptance by the Commission of the construction
for which appellant contends. See United States v. Chicago, N. S. & M. R. Co., 288 U. S. 1; cf. Estate of Sanford v.
Helvering, ante, p. 39. But mere inaction, through failure
of the Commission to institute proceedings under § 15 (7),
is not an administrative ruling and does not imply decision as to the Commission's jurisdiction. If the failure
to act in the case of yards other than the present one
is to be taken as an administrative construction of the
statute persuasive here, we would be forced to conclude
that a jurisdiction which the statute has plainly conferred
either on the Secretary or the Commission, has been
lost, although, with respect to this appellant, jurisdiction
has been consistently asserted by the Commission, while
the Secretary has as consistently remained passive.
There is a practical limit to which inquiry into collateral
issues may be extended in pursuit of the trivial. We
think that limit was reached here.
Affirmed.

