OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

"command" may be exercised through specific retention
of 'legal title or the creation of a new equitable but controlled interest, or the maintenance of effective benefit
through the interposition of a subservient agency. Cf.
Gregory v. Helvering, 293 U. S. 465. "A given result at
the end of a straight path," this Court said in Minnesota
Tea Co. v. Helvering, 302 U. S. 609, 613, "is not made a
different result because reached by following a devious
path." Legislative words are not inert, and derive vitality from the obvious purposes at which they are aimed,
particularly in the provisions of a tax law like those governing installment sales in § 44 of the Revenue Act of
1932. Taxes cannot be escaped "by anticipatory arrangements and contracts however skilfully devised . ... by

which the fruits are attributed to a different tree from
that on which they grew.". Lucas v. Earl, 281 U. S. 111,
115. What Lay gave, Griffiths in reality got, and on that
he must be taxed.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

BUCKSTAFF BATH HOUSE CO. v. McKINLEY,
COMMISSIONER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR OF ARKANSAS, .T

AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 201. Submitted December 4, 1939.-Decided December 18, 1939.
An Arkansas corporation, organized for profit and having its only
place of business within the Government Reservation known as
Hot Springs National Park, maintained and operated, under a
long term lease from the Secretary of the Interior, a bath house,
which it erected and equipped. The operation and use of the
bath house facilities were subject to regulations promulgated by
the Department of the Interior. The corporation had more than
eight persons in its employ. Held:
1. The corporation was not an "instrumentality of the United
States" within the meqning of the federal Social Security, Act;

BUCKSTAFF CO. v. McKINLEY.
358

359

Opinion of the Court.

.and was not, under § 907, exempt from the tax imposed by that
Act. P. 362.
2. The corporation was subject to the tax imposed by the
Arkansas Unemployment Compensation Law-a law reciprocal
to, and integrated with, the federal Social Security Act. P. 363.
3. That Arkansas was authorized by Congress to impose the tax
is implied from the fact that the corporation is subject to the federal tax and from the design of the federal Act to provide a
coperative system of state and federal taxation for social security, in which the States were in effect invited to. tax the same
classes of employers as are taxed under the federal Act. P. 364.
In the absence of any declaration to the contrary, it is a fair
presumption semble that the purpose of Congress was to have the
state law closely coterminous with its own.
4. The authority of Arkansas to impose the tax in question
is merely an extension of the power to tax as personal property
all structures and other property in private ownership on the
Reservation, conferred by the Act of March 3, 1891. Pp. 364-365.
198 Ark. 91; 127 S.W. 2d 802, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 508, to review the affirmance by the
State Supreme Court of a decree of the lower state court
which sustained a demurrer to and dismissed a bill to
enjoin the collection of a tax imposed under the Arkansas
Unemployment Compensation Law.
Mr. Terrell Marshall submitted for petitioner.
Mr. W. L. Pope submitted for respondents.

M . JUSTICE DOUGLAs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Section 901 of the Social Security Act (49 Stat. 620)
levies an excise tax, equal to specified percentages of total
wages paid, on "every employer" of eight or more persons
with respect to their "employment." By § 902 the taxpayer may credit against this tax the amount of contributions paid by him into an unemployment fund under a
state law, such credit however not to exceed 90 percent
of the tax and to be allowed only for contributions made

360

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

under the laws of states approved and certified by the
Social Security Board in accordance with the standards
prescribed in § 903. By § 907 the term "employment" is
defined to mean "any service, of whatever nature, performed within the United States by an employee for his
employer" except, inter alia, service performed "in the
employ of the United States Government or of an
instrumentality of the United States."
Petitioner is an Arkansas corporation, organized for
profit and with its only place of business situated on the
United States Government Reservation known as Hot
Springs National Park. It operates a bath house, which
it erected and equipped, under a long term lease from
the Secretary of the Interior. By the terms of that lease
the operation and use of the bath house facilities are subject to certain control by the Department of the Interior,
which in the main relate to the number of bath tubs
which may be used, the charges to the publio, the qualifications of employees, the maintenance and care of the
premises, a prohibition of employment of agents to solicit
patronage, and control over an assignment or transfer of
the lease or any interest therein.
Respondents are officials of the State of Arkansas
charged with the duty of enforcement of the Arkansas
Unemployment Compensation Law,' an act reciprocal to,
and integrated with; the Social Security Act.2 Pursuant
to that act respondents sought to collect from petitioner
as an employer the required contributions for the calendar
year 1937. Petitioner paid into the Treasury of the
United States the tax required by the Social Security Act
'Act No. 155, approved February 26, 1937; Pope's Digest, §§ 8549

et 86(j
'The Arkansas Unemployment Compensation Law was certified
and approved by the Social Security Board under § 903 on March 9,
1937. See Third Annual Report of the Social Security Board, 1938,
p. 175

BUCKSTAFF CO. v. McKINLEY.
358

Opinion of the Court.

for that period. But it refused to pay the state tax and
sued in the state court to enjoin its collection on the
grounds, inter alia, that it is an instrumentality of the
United States and that certain acts of Congress and
statutes of Arkansas exempt it from such taxation. The
Supreme Court of Arkansas affirmed a decree sustaining
a demurrer to the bill and dismissing it, on the grounds
that the Arkansas statute was applicable to petitioner
and that, on construction of the acts in question, petitioner did not have the claimed immunity. We granted
certiorari because that decision was asserted to be repugnant to the acts vesting exclusive juridiction over the Hot
Springs Reservation in the United States.
Petitioner's contention here, as below, is based primarily on the Act of Congress. of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat.
842) whereby the consent of the United States was given
"for the taxation, under the authority of the laws of the
State of Arkansas applicable to the equal taxation of
personal property in that State, as personal property,
of all structures and other property in private ownership
on the Hot Springs Reservation." - Petitioner points
The cession act of Arkansas was Act No. 30, approved February
21, 1903. It "ceded and granted" to the United States "exclusive
jurisdiction" over the area in question "to be exercised so long as the
same shall remain the property of the United States; provided, that
this grant of jurisdietioia shall not prevent the.execution of any process
of the State, civil or criminal, on any person who may be on such
reservation or premises; provided, further, that the right to tax all
structures and other property in private ownership, Qn the Hot
Springs reservation accorded the State by the Act of Congress approved March 3, 1901, is hereby reserved to the State of Arkansas."
This cession was accepted by the Act of Congress of April 20, 1904
(33 Stat. 187). As to Arkansas' asserted right to tax property in
the reservation prior to the Act of Congress of March 3, 1891, see
Ex parte Gaines, 56 Ark. 227.
For earlier Acts of Congress dealing with the rights of the United
States to the Hot Springs Reservation see 4 Stat. 505; 20 Stat. 258.
The early history of conflicting claims to these hot springs is reviewed

362

OCTOBER TERM, -1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

out that the tax imposed by the Social Security Act against
which appropriate credits may be made for contributions
under state laws is lid, as stated by this Court in
Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, 301 U. S. 548, 578, "as
a duty, an impost or an excise up'on the relation of employment"; and that as held by the Supreme Court of
Arkansas the tax in question is "not a tax on personal
property; nor is it, in any sense, a property tax." Therefore, petitioner concludes that the United States did not,
confer on the state of Arkansas the power to impose such
a tax but retains its sovereign jurisdiction in that .regard
since the power of Arkansas to tax was limited to the
enumerated property taxes.
We agree with the Supreme Court of Arkansas that the
state had jurisdiction to impose the tax in question.
There can be no question but that petitioner is liable
for the tax levied by § 901 of the Social Security Act, unless it is exempted by that portion of § 907 which relieves
"an instrumentality of the United States" from that duty.
But it seems clear that petitioner is not, within the meaning of the Social Security Act, such an instrumentality.
The mere fact that a private corporation conducts its
business under a contract with the United States does not
make it an instrumentality of the latter. Fidelity &
Deposit Co..v. Pennsylvania, 240 U. S. 319. Petitioner's
lease from the Secretary of the Interior did not convert
it into such an instrumentality. Petitioner "is engaged
in its own behalf, not the government's, in the conduct of
a private business for profit." See Federal Compress &
Warehouse Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17, 23. Though it
acts with the Government's permission and has received
a privilege from the Government, it dees not exercise that
privilege on behalf of the latter. See Broad River Pouer
in the Hot Springs Cases, 92 U. S. 698. See also Arlington Hotel Co.

v. Fant, 278 U. S. 439.

BUCKSTAFF CO. v. McKINLEY.
358

Opinion of the Court.

Co. v. Query, 288 U. S. 178, 180. The control reserved by
the Government for protection of a governmental program and the public interest is not incompatible with the
retention of the status of a private enterprise. See Federal Compress & Warehouse Co. v. McLean, supra. That
control, being wholly supervisory, is not to be differentiated from the type of control which the United States
may reserve over any i:,dependent contractor without
transforming him into its instrtimentality. See James v.
Dravo ContractingCo., 302 U. S. 134, 149. In effect, petitioner concedes the point by admitting its liability under
the Social Security Act.
That petitioner is subject to the Social Security Act is
extremely relevant to the solution of the problem at hand.
For that Act laid the foundation for a coi5perative endeavor between the states and the nation to meet a grave
emergency problem. As pointed out by this. Court in
Steward Machine Co. v. Davis, supra, p. 588, that Act
was an attempt to find a method by which the states and
the federal government could "work together to a common end." Prior thereto many states had "held back
through alarm lest, in laying such a toll upon their industries, they would place themselves in a position of economic disadvantage as compared with neighbors or
competitors," id., p. 588. The Act was designed therefore
to operate in a dual fashion-state laws were to be
integrated with the federal Act; payments under state
laws could be credited against liabilities under the other.
That it was designed so as to bring the states into the
co~perative venture is clear. The fact that it, would
operate though the states did not come in does not alter
the fact that there weregreat practical inducements for
the states to become components of a unitary plan for
unemployment relief. It is this invitation by the Congress to the states which is of importance to the issue

•364

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of. the Court.

308 U. S.

in this case. For certainly, under the co6rdinated scheme
which the Act visualizes, when Congress. brought within
its scope various classes of employers it in practical effect
invited the states to tax the same classes. Hence, if
there were any doubt as to. the jurisdiction of the states
to tax any of those classes it might well be removed by
that invitation, for in absence of a declaration to the
contrary, it would seem .to be a fair presumption that the
purpose of Congress was to have the state law. as closely
coterminous as possible with its. own. To the extent that
it was not, the hopes for a co6rdinated and integrated
dual system would not materialize..
Hence, it is our view that on the facts of this case, Congress has given Arkansas implied authority to tax petitioner under its Unemployment Compensation Law since
the Congress has included under the Social Security Act
employers such as petitioner. Clear evidence of a contrary intention would, of course, negative the existence of
the implied authority. But here there is none. That
conclusion is strengthened by the exemption of certain
elasses'of employers from the sweep of the federal Act.
Thus, the exclusion of federal instrumentalities from the
scope of the federal Act and hence from the. complementary state systems, emphasizes the purpose to exclude
from this statutory system only that well defined and
well known class of employers who have long enjoyed
immunity from state taxation. Had it been desired to
exempt the equally well known class, of which petitioner
is.a member, so as to save it from reciprocal state systems,
it would seem that an equally, clear exception would have
been made.
Whether the same result would follow in case the cession act had absolutely forbidden a state to impose any
tax on petitioner -we need -not decide. For here Arkansas did have a prior express power to tax petitioner's
property. The implied authority which we here find to

HELIS v. WARD.
358

Syllabus.

exist is therefore used not to override an earlier express
authority but merely to extend it to a degree. For in
final analysis the Arkansas tax does have some relation to
the use of petitioner's property. The existence of the
implied authority does not therefore. do violence- to the
earlier statutory grant.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REED concurs on the ground that the Act

of Congress of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat. 842) in which the
United States consented "for the taxation . . . as per-

sonal property, of all structures and other property in
private ownership on the Hot Springs Reservation,"
should be interpreted to give consent to the application of
the ArkansaA Unemployment Compensation Law.
Collins v.

Yosemite Park & Curry Co., 304 U. S. 518,

532, 534.
HELIS v. WARD, EXECUTRIX,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 68.

Argued December 6, 1939.-Decided December 18, 1939.

1. In a suit in equity for specific performance of a contract to purl
chase an oil lease, the issue was whether a greater sum tham had
been paid was due, and the decisive question was whether a par-'
ticular well would produce 3,000 barrels of oil per day. An umpire's report, based on tests made in accordance with the contract,
and admitted in evidence without objection, showed that the well
would not produce that quantity of oil through a 3/8 inch choke,
but .would produce in excess of that quantity on open flow. Interpreting the contract to mean that the test was as to the quantity the well would produce through a % inch choke, the District
Court gave judgment for the defendant. The *Circuit Court if
Appeals, interpreting the contract to mean that the test was what
the well would produce on open flow, reversed the District Court
and directed entry of judgment for the plaintiff. Held, that the
failure of the Circuit Court of Appeals to remand the case for a

