HELIS v. WARD.
358

Syllabus.

exist is therefore used not to override an earlier express
authority but merely to extend it to a degree. For in
final analysis the Arkansas tax does have some relation to
the use of petitioner's property. The existence of the
implied authority does not therefore. do violence- to the
earlier statutory grant.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE REED concurs on the ground that the Act

of Congress of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat. 842) in which the
United States consented "for the taxation . . . as per-

sonal property, of all structures and other property in
private ownership on the Hot Springs Reservation,"
should be interpreted to give consent to the application of
the ArkansaA Unemployment Compensation Law.
Collins v.

Yosemite Park & Curry Co., 304 U. S. 518,

532, 534.
HELIS v. WARD, EXECUTRIX,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 68.

Argued December 6, 1939.-Decided December 18, 1939.

1. In a suit in equity for specific performance of a contract to purl
chase an oil lease, the issue was whether a greater sum tham had
been paid was due, and the decisive question was whether a par-'
ticular well would produce 3,000 barrels of oil per day. An umpire's report, based on tests made in accordance with the contract,
and admitted in evidence without objection, showed that the well
would not produce that quantity of oil through a 3/8 inch choke,
but .would produce in excess of that quantity on open flow. Interpreting the contract to mean that the test was as to the quantity the well would produce through a % inch choke, the District
Court gave judgment for the defendant. The *Circuit Court if
Appeals, interpreting the contract to mean that the test was what
the well would produce on open flow, reversed the District Court
and directed entry of judgment for the plaintiff. Held, that the
failure of the Circuit Court of Appeals to remand the case for a

366

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Argument for Petitioner.

308 U. S.

new trial did not deprive the defendant of his day in court in
violation of the Fifth Amendment. Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S.
317, distinguished. P. 369.
2. The defendant is not entitled here to urge that a new trial should
be allowed in order that he may attack the competency and
accuracy of the umpire's report, when that point was not a ground
either of his petition to the Circuit Court of Appeals for rehearing
or of his petition here for certiorari. P. 369.
3. Review by certiorari in this Court is confined to the grounds upon
which the writ was sought or granted. P. 370.
102 F. 2d 519, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, post, p. 537, to review the reversal of a
judgm1ent, 20 F. Supp. 514, dismissing a suit upon a
contract.
Mr. Eugene D. Saunders for petitioner.
When a litigant objects to the introduction of evidence
and the objection is sustained he may rely upon such
ruling. He need not introduce evidence to refute a point
which the trial court upon his objection has ruled to be
irrelevant and not involved in the litigation. A litigant
is deprived of his day in court and of due process of law
when a court, either trial or appellate, decides a case
against him upon a point which he has not tried because
of justifiable reliance upon a ruling of the trial judge.
The real issue in this case has never been litigated.
The trial judge excluded all evidence except that relating
to a particular point or issue, and that point or issue has
been declared by the appellate court to be immaterial
to the determination of the controversy. See Lutcher &
Moore Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S. 256, 267; Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S. 317; Collins v. Yosemite Park &
Curry Co., 304 U. S. 518; United States v. Rio Grande
Dam & Irrigation Co', 184 U. S. 416; Willing v. Binenstock, 302 U. S. 272; Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins, 304 U. S.
64; Fifth Third National Bank v. Johnson, 219 F. 89;
Columbus Gas & Fuel Co. v. City of Columbus, 55 F. 2d

HELIS v. WARD.
365

,Opinion of the Court.

56; Faulks v. Schrider, 90 F. 2d 370; Hughes v. Reed, 46
F. 2d 435; Wilson V. Spencer, 261 F. 357; Underwood v.
Commissioner, 56 F. 2d 67; Finefrock v. Kenova Mine
Car Co., 22 F. 2d 627; Hamilton Gas Co. v. Watters, 75
F. 2d 176.
Petitioner believes he has an adequate defense and is
confident that a retrial of this cause on the theory announced by the Circuit Court of Appeals will result in
judgment being again rendered in his favor.
The evidence relied upon by the appellate court for
rendering judgment herein is the written report of a
petroleum engineer and the written report of an employee
of respondents. Neither of these reports was offered as
evidence upon the trial and they are in the record because
constituting exhibits annexed to petitioner's pleading.
Both reports would, however, have been relevant because
of dealing in part with tests which the trial court ruled
to be properly the subject of proof.
If these reports had been offered in evidence and if
their contents had been ruled relevant to the issues petitioner would have shown that they were worthless in that
the conclusions or opinions expressed therein were
founded on errors apparent upon the face of the ,reports.
Mr. William N. Bonner, with whom Mr. W. D. Gordon
was on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is a suit for specific performance of a contract to
purchase a mineral lease brought by respondents, as vendors. The contract price was to be determined pursuant
to a formula. based upon the production of certain
designated wells on the property. That price was fixed
at $300,000 "if the average daily production of said wells
for a period of fifteen. days after completion is less than

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the- Court.

308 U. S.

3,000 barrels each, calculated on a 3-inch choke according to the methods usually employed in gauging the
capacity of oil wells." In case the production, calculated
in that manner, was more than 3,000 barrels per day, the
purchase price was fixed at $400,000. The test was to
be made jointly by a representative of respondents and
a representative of petitioner; and "in the event they fail
to agree on the proper gauge," it was provided that
"Judge Hardin . . .will appoint a reputable engineer to
act as umpire."
The parties failed to agree on the proper gauge and
Judge Hardin appointed W. L. Massey, a petroleum engineer, to make the test.' Massey conducted a test and
submitted a written report, which without objection was
admitted at the trial. That report stated that although
"the well will not make 3,000 barrels per day on such 3/8"
choke," it was "capable of flowing merchantable oil at a
rate much in excess of 3,000 barrels of oil per day on an
open flow, or through any ch-oke larger than a 5/"
choke." At the trial there was other testimony that the
production "through a %-inch choke" was not more than
3,000 barrels a day. The trial court held that the contract
meant that the well was to be flowed through a 3/8-inch
choke. Accordingly it dismissed the bill, since on that
interpretation it was clear that the production was not
more than 3,000 barrels a day and since petitioner already
had paid $300,000. On appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals held that the test provided in the contract "was
not to measure the production through a 3/ 8 -inch choke,
but to calculate on a 3 A-inch choke the amount the well
was capable of producing." It then turned to the record
and ascertained that Massey, the umpire appointed pur'Judge Hardin instructed Massey: "You are requested to determine, first, the actual production of three-eighths (%) choke; second, by .using the three-eighths (3/8) choke you are to calculate the
open flow capacity of the well."

HELIS v. WARD.
365

Opinion of the Court.

suant to the agreement of the parties, had found that
by using the 3 -inch choke as a base and "building up
therefrom by using other chokes to determine pressures
and conditions" the well was capable of producing much
in excess of 3,000 barrels of oil per day. Since that calculation by Massey was consistent with the Circuit Court
of Appeals' interpretation of the formula in the contract,
that court concluded that petitioner was liable to pay
the higher amount provided in the contract, $400,000.
It accordingly reversed the judgment directing the District Court to enter judgment for respondents for $100,000, the balance due under the contract, with interest.
We granted certiorari, limited to thc question whether
a new trial should not have been granted, on the assertion
that the failure to remand for a new trial deprived petitioner of his day in court in violation of the rule of
Saunders v. Shaw, 244 U. S. 317.
We conclude that the Circuit Court of Appeals committed no error.
The fact that the case was tried by the District Court
on an interpretation of the contract different from that
of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not per se sufficient
to cause a remand for a new trial under the rule of Saunders v. Shaw, supra. The production of the well was
tested by the umpire in the manner provided in the
contract and the results of that test were without objection admitted at the trial. Complete establishment of
the facts necessary for application of the formula was
thus made in the manner provided by the parties in their
contract. To be sure, petitioner now asserts that on a
new trial he would attack the competency and accuracy
of the umpire's report-matters which were immaterial
to the issues on the trial in view of the fact that it was
not contested that no more than 3,000 barrels of oil a day
could be produced through a 3i%-inch choke. But the difficulty with petitioner's position is that he has not pre-

• 370

OCTOBER TERM, 1939
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

served that point. On his petition for rehearing to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, petitioner ,did not ask that
court to allow him a new trial in order to attack the
umpire's report.! Nor was that the ground upon which
the petition for certiorari was predicated. For review by
this Court was sought and granted on the ground that the
Circuit Court of Appeals had decided the merits on facts
not contained in the record and on a theory which had
never been tried by the litigants. There Was no intimation in the petition for certiorari that a new trial should
be granted in order to afford petitioner an opportunity to
attack the competency and accuracy of the umpire's
report. It is well settled that this Court confines itself to
the ground upon which the writ was asked or granted,
the review here being no broader than that sought by
the petitioner. Clark v. Williard, 294 U. S. 211, 216;
Helvering v. Tex-Penn Oil Co., 300 U. S. 481, 498; Washington, V. & M. Coach Co. v. National Labor Relations
Board, 301 U. S. 142, 146. Accordingly, petitioner cannot
now complain that he has not had his day in court and
has been deprived of due process of law contrary to the
Fifth Amendment. Due process of law is not concerned
with mere afterthoughts.
Affirmed.
'In addition to attacking the interpretation of the contract by the
'Circuit Court of Appeals, petitioner merely asserted, "Your Honors
have erred in predicating your opinion upon facts not contained in
the record and upon facts which are disproved by the record."

