OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

JOHN HANCOCK MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.
v. BARTELS.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 33. Argued November 9, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.

1. Subsections (a) to (r) of § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act do not provide that a petition for composition or extension shall be dismissed in the absence of a reasonable probability of the financial
rehabilitation of the debtor, nor do they warrant the imputation
of lack of good faith to a farmer-debtor because of that plight.
P. 184.
2. The purpose of § 75 of the Bankruptcy Act is to afford relief to
debtors in economic distress, however severe, by giving them a
chance to seek an agreement with their creditors, under subsections
(a) to (r) and, failing this, to ask for the other relief afforded by
subsection (s). P. 184.
The farmer-debtor may offer to pay what he can, and he is
not to be charged with bad faith in taking the course for which
the statute expressly provides.
3. Section 75 (i) of the Bankruptcy Act in providing that before con.firming proposals for composition or extension the court must be
satisfied that the offer and its acceptance are in good faith and
have not been made or procured by forbidden means or except as
provided by the statute, hits at secret advantages to favored
creditors or other improper or fraudulent conduct. P. 185.
4. A farmer-debtor, having failed to obtain the acceptance under
§ 75 of the Bankruptcy Act, subsections (a) to (r), by the requisite
majority of creditors, of a proposal for composition or extension
of time to pay his debts, filed his amended petition under subsection (s) praying that he be adjudged a bankrupt, that his
property be appraised, that his exemptions be set aside, and that
- he be
permitted to retain possession of his property, under the
supervision of the court. Held, that he was entitled to be so adjudged and to have his proceeding for relief entertained and his
property dealt with in accordance with that subsection; and that
the court of bankruptcy erred in dismissing the petition upon the
ground that under the evidence there was no reasonable probability of his financial rehabilitation and because in the judge's opin-

JOHN HANCOCK INS. CO. v. BARTELS.
180

181

Opinion of the Court.

ion no offer had been made by the debtor which could be construed as an offer in good faith for extension and composition.
P. 183.
100 F. 2d 813, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 307 U. S 617, to review the reversal of a
decree dismissing the petition of a farmer-debtor to be
adjudged a bankrupt under § 75 (s) of the Bankruptcy
Act.
Mr. L. M. Bickett, with whom Messrs. John 1". Lfickett,
Jr. and Byron K. Elliott were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. T. E. Mosheim, Elmer McClain, and William
Lemke, with whom Messrs. Alfred Aram, Harold M. Sawyer, and Francis R. Taylor were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of
the Court.
In this proceeding brought by a farmer under § 75 of
the Bankruptcy Act, the District Court dismissed the
debtor's petition. The Circuit Court of Appeals held
that this action was contrary to the requirements of
the statute and directed the proceeding to be reinstated.
100 F. 2& 813. - Because of conflict in the rulings of the
Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit, due to the differing
views of the judges composing the court in the cases
cited,' and because of the importance of the question, we
granted certiorari, 307 U. S. 617.
Respondent Bartels presented his petition to the District Court on December 2, 1937, asking that he be
afforded an opportunity to effect a composition or extenISee Baxter v. Savings Bank of Utica, 92 F. 2d 404; In re Henderson, 100 F. 2d 820;, Wilson v. Alliance Life Insurance Co., 102 F. 2d

365.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

sion of time to pay his debts under § 75. The court
referred the matter to a conciliation commissioner, directing the debtor to appear before the commissioner and to
submit to such orders as might be made in proceedings
under that section. A meeting of the creditors was held
on December 21, 1937, at which the debtor was present
and was examined. It appeared that his debts amounted
to about $10,000 of which about $8,000 (including interest and attorney's fees) was owing to the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company and was secured
by a lien upon his home. As the debtor was unable to
obtain an agreement with a majority of his creditors in
number and amount, he notified the commissioner that
he would apply to be adjudged a bankrupt under subsection (s) of § 75. That application was filed on January 10, 1938. The debtor asked that "his property be
appraised," that "his exemption be set aside to him" and
that he be permitted "to retain possession of his property
under the supervision of the court." On the same day,
the District Judge entered an order adjudging the debtor
a bankrupt and requiring further proceedings before the
commissioner acting as referee under subsection (s).
On March 23, 1938, the John Hancock Company moved
to set aside the adjudication and to dismiss the debtor's
petition on the ground that the debtor was not entitled
to avail himself of the provisions of subsection (s); that
he had not presented any feasible plan for a composition
and extension of his debts, and that his petition "was
not filed in good faith" or "with any hope or expectation
of working out his debts and paying up his delinquencies
but apparently for the sole purpose of hindering and delaying his creditors." The Company also alleged that at
the fair market value of the real property held by it as
security there was no equity for the debtor and that the
Company would suffer irreparable loss unless the adjudication was set aside and the proceeding dismissed.

JOHN HANCOCK INS. CO. v. BARTELS.
180

183

Opinion of the Court.

The debtor denied these allegations and alleged that the
land on which the Company had a lien was worth unimproved more than $7,000 and that the improvements
were worth $6,000 and that he thus had a large equity
which would be lost to him unless he obtained the benefits sought under the applicable law.
At the hearing of the motion on April 5, 1938, the court
received the evidence previously taken before the commissioner and additional testimony. Thereupon the motion was granted. The District Judge said in his opinion
that the debtor had not made any proposal which could
be construed as a "good faith offer for an extension or
composition" and hence the debtor was not entitled to
be adjudged a bankrupt under subsection (s). The District Judge observed that the evidence was conflicting
as to the value of the land (100 acres); that, separating
the land from its improvements, certain of the debtor's
witnesses placed its value at $70 an acre and the improvements at $5,000 or $6,000, while witnesses for the creditor
valued the land at about $40 an acre and the improvements at about $2,000. He thought that there was no
reasonable probability of the property being sold for
enough to give any substantial equity to the debtor and
accordingly found that -there was no reasonable probability of the debtor's financial rehabilitation. In that
view the District Judge concluded "that the order adjudicating the debtor a bankrupt under subsection* (s)
was 'improperly entered and should be set aside and the
cause dismissed."
We think that the District Judge failed to follow the
mandate of the statute and that the Cireht Court of
Appeals was right in reversing the judgment and ordering the proceeding to be reinstated.
Subsection (s) of § 75 as amended by the Act of August
28, 1935,2 prescribes a definite course of procedure. That
'49 Stat. 943; Wright v. Vinton Branch, 300 U. S. 440.

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

subsection applies explicitly to a case of a farmer who has
failed to obtain the acceptance of a majority in number
and amount of all creditors whose claims are affected by
a proposal for a composition or an extension of time to
pay his debts. That was Bartels' situation. Provisions
for proceedings by a farmer to obtain a composition or
extension, when he is insolvent or unable to pay his debts
as they mature, are found in subsections (a) to (r) of
§ 75. For that relief Bartels had presented his petition
under subsection (c) and the District Court had approved
the petition as properly filed. According to the report
of the conciliation commissioner, to whom the matter
was referred according to the statute, Bartels had appeared at the meeting of the creditors and had submitted
to a detailed examination concerning his financial condition. He proposed to sell certain property and to apply
the proceeds to the payment in part of the amounts due
to the John Hancock Company, the secured creditor. He
succeeded in obtaining an agreement with certain unsecured creditors for an extension but the secured creditor
refused consent, as Bartels could not meet all his arrears.
Bartels was thus precisely in the condition prescribed
in subsection (s).
The subsections of § 75 which regulate the procedure
in relation to the effort of a farmer-debtor to obtain a
composition or extension contain no provision for a dismissal because of the absence of a reasonable probability
of the financial rehabilitation of the debtor.3 Nor is
there anything in these subsections which warrants the
imputation of lack of good faith to a farmer-debtor because of that plight. The plain purpose of § 75 was
to afford relief to such debtors who found themselves
'What is said upon this point in Note 6 in Wright v. Vinton Branch,
300 U. S. 440, 462, was not essential to the opinion in that case and is
not supported by the terms of the statute.

JOHN HANCOCK INS. CO. v. BARTELS.
180

185

Opinion of the Court.

in economic distress however severe, by giving them
the chance to seek an agreement with their creditors
(subsections (a) to (r)) and, failing this, to ask for
the other relief afforded by subsection (s). The farmerdebtor may offer to pay what he can, as Bartels did, and
he is not to be charged with bad faith in taking the course
for which the statute expressly provides. The only reference in § 75 to good faith is found in' subsection (i),
which relates solely to the confirmation of proposals for
composition or extension when the court must be satisfied that the offer and its acceptance are in good faith
and have not been made or procured by forbidden means
or except as provided in the statute. That provision
manifestly hits at secret advantages to favored creditors
or other improper or fraudulent conduct.
As Bartels' case thus fell within subsection (s), he
amended his petition and asked to be adjudicated a bankrupt as that subsection permits. He was so adjuaicated.
Bartels then asked, also as provided in subsection (s),
that his property be appraised, that his exemptions be
set aside to him as provided by state law, and that he be
allowed to retain possession of his property under the
supervision of the court, that is, subject to such orders
as the court might make in accordance with the statute.
The court failed to take that action. Instead of having
the property appraised, the court received conflicting testimony as to value, discussed the chances of the debtor's
rehabilitation and dismissed the petition and all proceedings thereunder.
The procedure under subsection (s) is intended to protect all interests. It provides, in paragraph (1), that
after the value of the debtor's property has been fixed
by the prescribed appraisal, the referee shall set aside
the debtor's unencumbered exemptions and direct his retention of possession of the rest of his property subject

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

to all liens and to the court's supervision and control.
Under paragraph (2), if there has been compliance with
the statutory conditions, the court is directed to stay all
proceedings against the debtor or his property for a period
of three years, and during that time the debtor may retain
possession of all or part of his property subject to the
court's control, provided he pays a reasonable rental semiannually. That rental is to be paid into court and is to
be used first for the payment of taxes and the upkeep
of the property and the remainder is to be distributed
among the creditors as their interests may appear. If the
court finds it necessary to protect the creditors "from loss
by the estate," or "to conserve the security," the court
may order any unexempt perishable property of the
debtor, or any unexempt personal property not reasonably
necessary for the farming operations of the debtor, to be
sold at public or private sale, and the court, in addition
to the prescribed rental, may require payments to be
made by the debtor on the principal of his debts in the
manner set forth. Then it is provided, in paragraph (3),
that at the end of the three-year period, or at any time
before that, the debtor may pay into court the appraised
value of the property of which he retains possession, "including the amount of encumbrances on his exemptions,
up to the amount of the appraisal, less the amount paid
on principal," for appropriate distribution to his creditors.
There is the proviso that upon the request of any creditor,
or of the debtor, the court shall cause the debtor's property to be reappraised, or in its discretion set a date for
hearing, and thereafter fix the value of the property in
accordance with the evidence, and the debtor shall then
pay the value so arrived at into court, less payments made
on the principal, for distribution to his creditors. In
that way, by the order of the court, the debtor may regain
full possession and'title of such property, the ascertained

JOHN HANCOCK INS. CO. v. BARTELS 187
180

Opinion of the Court.

value of which has thus been devoted to the payment
of his debts. There is the further proviso, for the protection of secured creditors, that upon request in writing
by any secured creditor the court shall order the property
upon which the secured creditor has a lien to be sold at
public auction. See Wright v. Vinton Branch, supra, pp.
458-461. The debtor is to have ninety days to redeem
the property so sold by paying the amount for which it
was sold, with interest, into court, and he may apply for
his discharge as provided in the Act. If, however, the
debtor at any time fails to comply with the provisions of
the section or with any orders of the court made thereunder, or is unable to refinance himself within three years,
the court may order the appointment of a trustee and
direct the property to be sold or otherwise disposed of as
provided in the Act.
The scheme of the statute is designed to provide an
orderly procedure so as to give whatever relief may properly be afforded to the distressed farmer-debtor, while
protecting the interests of his creditors by assuring the
fair application of whatever property the debtor has to the
payment of their claims, the priorities and liens of
secured creditors being preserved. See Wright v. Vinton
Branch, supra;Adair v. Bank of America Assn., 303 U. S.
350, 354-357; Wright v. Union Central Life Insurance
Co., 304 U. S. 502, 516, 517.
We are not here concerned with questions which may
arise in the course of the administration under the statute, but merely with the duty to follow the procedure
which the statute defines and the District Court failed to
observe. We hold that on his amended petition invoking
subsection (s) Bartels was entitled to be adjudged a
bankrupt and to have his proceeding for relief entertained
and his property dealt with in accordance with that
subsection.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Syllabus.

308 U. S.

The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals reversing that of the District Court and directing the proceeding to be reinstated is affirmed and the cause is remanded
to the District Court with direction to proceed in
conformity with this opinion.
_ Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BORDEN COMPANY

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 397.

Argued November 15, 1939.-Decided December 4, 1939.

1. A judgment quashing a count upon the ground of duplicity is not
appealable to this Courl under the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 193.
2. The construction of an indictment by the District Court binds
this Court on an Ippeal under the Criminal Appeals Act. P. 194.
3. A decision of the District Court holding that an indictment failed
to charge an offense under the Sherman Anti-Trust Act because of
the effect on that Act of later statutes, held a construction of the
Sherman Act and reviewable under the Criminal Appeals Act.
P. 195.
4. Repeals by implication are not favored. When there are two Acts
upon the same subject, effect should be given to both if possible.
P. 198.
5. The Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 does not operate to repeal the Sherman Anti-Trust Act in its application to
agreements of producers, distributors and others, restricting interstate commerce in milk, when such agreements are not participated
in or directed by the Secretary of Agriculture in pursuance of the
former Act. Pp. 196-202.
With respect to interstate commerce in agricultural commodities
or their products, an agreement made with the Secretary as a party,
or an order made by him, or an arbitration award or agreement
approved by him, pursuant to the authority conferred by the
Agricultural Act and within the terms of the immunity described
by §§ 8 (b) and 3 (d), would be a defense to a prosecution under
the Sherman Act to the extent that the prosecution sought. to
penalize what was thus validly agreed upon or directed by the
Secretary. Further than that the Agricultural Act does not go.

