BOTELER v. INGELS.
Counsel for Parties.

BOTELER, TRUSTEE, v. INGELS, DIRECTOR OF

MOTOR VEHICLES OF CALIFORNIA,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 15 and 16.

Argued October 16, 1939.-Decided
November 6, 1939.

1. Section 57 (j) of the Bankruptcy Act, barring allowance of debts
owing to federal, state, or local governments, as penalties, except
for the amount of the pecuniary loss sustained etc., prohibits allowance of tax penalties only if incurred by the bankrupt prior to
bankruptcy. P. 59.
2. Penalties attaching upon nonpayment of state automobile license
taxes, which taxes and penalties accrued while the business of a
bankrupt estate was being operated by a trustee in bankruptcy
for the purpose of liquidation, are allowable against the bankrupt
estate by virtue of the Act of June 18, 1934, which subjects trustees and other appointees of United States courts, who are authorized to conduct a business, "to all State and local taxes applicable
tc such business the same as if such business were conducted by
an individual or corporation ...
" P. 60.
100 F. 2d 915, affirmed.
CERTIORARI,

307 U. S. 617, to review the reversal of two

orders of the District Court, which in effect held a bankrupt estate not liable for penalties accruing upon nonpayment of state automobile license taxes. Appeals from the
orders were consolidated for briefing, hearing, and decision
in the Circuit Court of Appeals; and the cases are treated
similarly here.
Mr. Raphael Dechter, with whorn Messrs. Thomas S.
Tobin and Joseph J. Rifkind were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. H. H. Linney, Deputy Attorney General of California, with whom Messrs. Earl Warren, Attorney
General, and Frank W. Richards, Deputy Attorney
General, were on the brief, for respondents.

58

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BLACK delivered the opinion of the Court.
Under California law vehicle license and registration
fees are due the State on January first of each year; they
become delinquent when a vehicle is operated without
registration and license; if the fees are not paid within
thirty days after delinquency a penalty equal to the fees
accrues; fees and penalties are protected by statutory
lien on the vehicle from the due date.'
The single question presented is sufficiently stated by
the petition for certiorari:
"Is a bankrupt's estate liable to penalties imposed by
state statutes for non-payment of automobile license fees
where license fees and penalties claims accrued. during
operations for purposes of liquidation of the business of
bankrupt's estate by the Trustee in Bankruptcy?"
As trustees of a business in bankruptcy, petitioner and
his predecessor continuously operated unregistered and
unlicensed vehicles on California highways, from January
first to February twenty-seventh. Tender of fees without
accrued penalties was rejected by California. Upon petition of the trustee, the referee in bankruptcy ordered the
vehicles sold free and clear of any claims or liens of the
State but permitted California to file claims for fees,
without penalties, within thirty days or be forever barred.
The referee's order was confirmed by the District Court
which also directed California officials (respondents here)
to issue licenses to the trustee. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed, ordering alternatively that accrued fees
and penalties be paid, or that the vehicles be disposed
of subject to the lien of the State for the unpaid taxes
and penalties.2 Because of asserted conflict with the
I c.362, Calif. Stat. of 1935, p. 1313, as amended. c. 27, Calif. Stat.
of 1935, Calif. Vehicle Code, pp. 147, 150, 151.
2100 F. 2d 915. The court below stated that the two cases here
reviewed (Nos. 15, 16) "involved the identical facts, were consolidated

BOTELER v. INGELS.
57

Opinion of the Court.

Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit,8 we granted
certiorari.
The trustee insists that the State is barred from collecting the penalties because of subdivision 57 (j) of the
Bankruptcy Act' which provides:
"Debts owing to the United States, a State, a county,
a district, or a municipality as a penalty or forfeiture
shall not be allowed, except for the amount of the pecuniary loss sustained by the act, transaction, or proceeding
out of which the penalty or forfeiture arose, with reasonable ifid actual costs occasioned thereby and such
interest as may.have accrued thereon according to law."
Recognizing that 57 (j) prohibits allowance of tax penalties accruing prior to bankruptcy,5 the State nevertheless insists that this subdivision does not exempt the
trustee from state laws applicable to the business he
operates after bankruptcy. California considers the trustee subject to the requirements and penalties of its license
and registration laws under an Act of Congress of June
18, 1934, 48 Stat. 993, reading in part as follows:
"Any receiver, liquidator, referee, trustee, or other officers or agents appointed by any United States court who
is authorized by said court to conduct any business, or
who does conduct any business, shall, fro~a and after
June 18, 1934, be subject to all State and local taxes
applicable to such business the same as if such business
were conducted by an individual or corporation; . . . "
First. Subdivision 57 (j) prohibits allowance of a tax
penalty against the bankrupt estate only if incurred by
the bankrupt before bankruptcy by reason of his own delinquency. After bankruptcy, it does not purport to exfor briefing and hearing iknd are disposed of in this opinion." We
have followed the same course.
'In re Messenger's Merchants Lunch Room, 85 F. 2d 1002.
'c. 6, 11 U. S. C., ยง 93 (j).
'Cf. New York v. Jersawit, 263 U. S. 493, 496.

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1939.
Opinion of the Court.

308.U. S.

empt the trustee from the operation of state laws, or to
relieve the estate from liability for the trustee's delinquencies.6 For 57 (j) is a subdivision of ยง 57 of the
Bankruptcy Act governing "Proof and Allowance of
Claims." And 57 (a) makes clear that ยง 57 as a whole
relates only to claims "justly owing from the bankrupt
to the creditor." The fees and penalties in issue were
incurred by the trustee in operating the bankrupt business, and thus were not owed by the bankrupt to the
State as a "creditor." Therefore, regardless of other
rights the State might have, it could not file proof of
claim for these fees and penalties as a creditor under
ยง 57. And neither the tax liability nor the penalties
incurred by the trustee after bankruptcy are governed
by this section or its subdivisions. We must look elsewhere than to 57 (j) to determine whether the court
below correctly held that California may enforce its
statutory penalties against this estate.
Second. The Act of June 18, 1934 declares that a
trustee in bankruptcy conducting a business, as this trustee was, "shall . . . be subject to all State and local
taxes applicable to such business the same as if such
business -were conducted by an individual or co~poration. . . ." As originally offered, this Act applied only
to receivers. 7 Reported by the House Committee on
the Judiciary without amendment,' the bill was amended
on the House floor to apply not only to receivers but to
a "liquidator, referee, trustee or other officer or agent."9
We need not determine whether, without legislation
such as the 1934 Act, the fact that a local business in
"Whether the trustee might be personally surcharged because his
refusal to pay the fees subjected the estate to the increased liability of
the penalties, is not presented.
'Cong. Record, 73rd Cong., 2nd Sess., p. 4037.
'Id., p. 6067.
9Id., p. 6656.

BOTELER v. INGELS.
57

Opinion of the Court.

bankruptcy is operated by a bankruptcy trustee makes
the business immune from state laws and valid measures
for their enforcement. Clearly, means of permitting
such immunity from local laws will not be read into the
Bankruptcy Act. At any rate, Congress has here with
vigor and clarity declared that a trustee and other court
appointees who operate businesses must do so subject to
state taxes "the same as if such business [es] were conducted by an individual or corporation." If businesses
in California not conducted by a bankruptcy trustee are
delinquent in the :fees,. they must pay the penalty.
However, petitioners :contention would exempt a trustee operating a business in bankruptcy from this double
tax liability which other delinquents must bear. A State
would thus be accorded the theoretical privilege of taxiAg businesses operated by trustees in bankruptcy on an
equal footing with all other businesses, but would be
denied the traditional and almost universal method of
enforcing prompt payment.
Taxation on and regulation of highway traffic are
matters of constantly increasing importance and concern
to the States. The Act of 1934 indicates a Congressional
purpose to facilitate-not to obstruct--enforcement of
state laws; the court below correctly recognized and
applied this Congressional purpose and its judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.

