I OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

These questions have been too frequently discussed in this
court to need further comment. We concur with the Circuit
Court that the bill is without merit, and believe that it was
rightfully dismissed. The decree is, therefore,
-Aff 'med.

FREEDMAN'S SAVING AND TRUST COMPANY
v. SHEPHERD.
SHEPHERD v. THOMPSON.
APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COUIRT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMhBIA.
Nos. 230, 256.

Argued April 17, 18, 1888. -Decided

April 30, 1888.

When a mortgage contains no provision for the payment of rents and
profits to the mortgagee while the mortgagor remains in possession, the
mortgagee is not entitled,-as against the owner of the equity of
redemption, -to the rents and profits of the mortgaged premises until
he takes actual possession, or until possession is taken in his behalf;
even though the income may be expressly pledged as security for the
mortgage debt, with the right in the mortgagee to take possession upon
failure by the mortgagor to perform the conditions of the mortgage.
Section 3737 of the Revised Statutes respecting the transfer of contracts
with the United States does not embrace a lease of real estate, to be
- used for public purposes, under which the lessor is not required to perform any service for the government, and has nothing to do, in respect
of the lease, but to receive from time to time the rent agreed to be paid.
When the government, as lessee of real estate occupied by it, recognizes
through its proper officers a transfer of the property and an assignment
of the lease, and an assignment of rent under it, and pays the rent, there
is nothing in § 3477 Rev. Stat. respecting transfers and assignments of
claims against the United States which invalidates that transaction for
the benefit of a third party.

THE

court stated the case as follows:

These consolidated causes involve the conflicting claims of
the parties: frst, to the proceeds of two drafts, one for $1800,
and the other for $34:5, issued by the United States Treasury
in payment of the rent of lot four, square three hundred and
seventy-seven, with the improvements thereon, in the city of

FREEDMAN'S SAVING CO. v. SHEPHERD.

495

Statement of the Case.

Washington, and made payable to the order of A. C. Bradley,
to the use of Alexander R. Shepherd, to the use of George
Taylor, Peter F. Bacon, and Samuel Cross, trustees; second,
to a balance of $787.50 in the hands of A. C. Bradley, who
was appointed, in the first of the above named causes, receiver
of said premises with authority to collect the rents due and
to become due for use and occupation of the same by the
United States.
. The final decree awarded the proceeds of the two drafts to
Thompson, appellee in each of the causes, and the money in
the hands of the receiver to the trustees of Shepherd. Of that
decree both the Freedman's Savings and Trust Company and
Shepherd complain.
This controversy has been greatly tangled by an unusual
number of pleadings, affidavits, motions, rules and orders.
But the facts, so far as it is necessary to state them, are as
follows:
The Freedman's Savings and Trust Company (to be hereafter called the Trust Company) sold and conveyed this property to A. C. Bradley; and for the unpaid purchase money
the latter executed his five several notes for $2400, $2650,
$2900, $3150, and $5900, payable in one, two, three, four and
five years from June 9, 1873, with interest at eight per centum
per annum, payable semiannually.
For the purpose of securing the payment of those notes
Bradley, by deed of trust, in the nature of a mortgage, duly
recorded on the 18th of June, 1873, conveyed the property to
John W. Alvord and George W. Stickney, together with "all
the improvements, ways, easements, rights, privileges, appurtenances, and hereditaments" appertaining to the same, and
"all the estate, right, title, interest, and claim whatsoever,
either at law or in equity," of the grantor in the premises, in
trust to permit Bradley, his heirs or assigns, to use and occupy
the premises, and take the rents, issues, and profits thereof to
their sole use and benefit, "until default be made in the payment of said notes or any of them, or any instalment of
interest due thereon, or any proper cost, charges, commission,
half commission, or expense in and about the same;" and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

upon the further trust, such default having occurred, to sell
the property at public auction, after at least twenty days'
notice of the time, place, and terms of sale, and convey the
same in fee simple to the purchaser.
Prior to the execution of this deed, Bradley, by a formal
instrument of writing, to which the Postmaster General was
a party, had leased the premises to the United States, at an
annual rent of $4200, for the term of three years from June
5, 1873, with the privilege to the government of extending
the term for two additional years. On the 27th of August,
1874, he conveyed to Alexander R. Shepherd; and, on the
21st of November of the same year, gave written notice to
the Postmaster General of Shepherd's purchase. He also
assigned and transferred the lease to the latter, with authority
to collect the rent.
It should be stated in this connection that in his purchase
Bradley really represented Shepherd, the latter verbally assuming to pay the notes given to the Trust Company.
On the 15th of November, 1876, Shepherd made a conveyance to George Taylor, Henry A. Willard, (who was succeeded
by Peter F. Bacon,) and Samuel Cross, of a large amount of
property, including the premises in controversy, in trust to
secure his three notes of $100,000 each. That conveyance
contained a covenant upon the part of Shepherd that all the
rents, profits, issues, and proceeds of the trust property coming to his hands should be applied by him solely to the benefit
and advantage of the creditors whose debts were secured by
the deed.
The rent reserved for the year ending June 30, 1876, not
having been paid, Shepherd caused suit to be brought in the
Court of Claims, in the name of Bradley, against the United
States, to the use of Taylor, Bacon, and Cross, trustees. In
that suit judgment was rendered against the government for
only $1800, and was affirmed by this court at its October
term, 1878. Bradley v. United States, 98 U. S. 104. Pending the appeal in that case a second suit was brought for the
rent reserved for the years ending June 30, 1877, and June
30, 1878. But the decision in the first suit rendered the further prosecution of the second suit unnecessary.

FREEDMAN'S SAVING CO. v. SHEPHERD.

497

Statement of the Case
In consideration of the indebtedness described in a deed ex-

ecuted by Shepherd, March 10, 1873, to William Thompson,
as trustee, Bradley and Shepherd, by writing, dated June 21,
1877, pledged the demand against the United States for use
and occupation of these premises, as security for the payment
of said indebtedness, with interest thereon at the rate of eight
per cent per annum until paid; and, in the same instrument,
"covenanted and agreed that any draft or check issued in
payment or part payment of said claim shall be indorsed and
delivered to the trustee named in said trust, and the proceeds
thereof, less all proper costs and charges, be applied to the
payment of the said indebtedness, with interest as aforesaid,
or to so much thereof as the sum or sums of money so received is or are sufficient to pay." To this pledge and agreement the trustees named in Shepherd's deed of the 15th of
November, 1876, gave their written assent.
The premises having been advertised to be sold on the 3d of
August, 1877, under the deed of trust of June 18, 1873, because
of default in the payment of interest and principal, Shepherd
and the trustees in the deed of November 15, 1876, instituted,
August 2, 1877, a suit of equity, being the first named of the
above causes, to enjoin the sale. The ground alleged for the
injunction was the pendency of a suit brought by Mrs. McGhan and Edward Clark, her trustee, (Clark v. Trust Cornpany, 100 U. S. 149,) which involved the title of the Trust
Company to the property conveyed to Bradley, and by the
latter to Shepherd. A temporary injunction of the character
asked was granted. The Trust Company answered the original bill. It also filed, October 25, 1887, its cross-bill against
the plaintiffs, in which, after alleging the insolvency of Shepherd and Bradley, its fear that the property would not sell
for enough to pay the debts secured by the mortgage, and
the taxes on it, and asserting the right of its creditors to have
the rents thereof applied to its clainis, in preference to the
debts held by other creditors of Shepherd, it prayed that Shepherd, Taylor, Cross, and Bacon be perpetually restrained from
applying for or receiving any rents or sums of money due
from the United States on account of the use and occupation
VOL. exxvi-32

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

of the premises, until the final determination of this cause
and of the equity suit brought by Mrs. McGhan and Clark;
and that a receiver be appointed to collect the rents due from
the United States on account of the use and occupation of the
premises.
On the 18th of March, 1878, the case was heard. on the
motion of the Trust Company for a receiver and an injunction,
and an order was made enjoining the complainants, "from
collecting or receiving any moneys or other thing of value
from the United States on account of the lease made between
the United States and A. 0. Bradley, and bearing date June
6, 1873, for the premises involved in this cause."
On the 12th of March, 1879, the Trust Company, by petition, asked the appointment of a receiver to take charge of
the property and to collect the rents, during and after its occupancy by the government, and that Shepherd and his cocomplainants be enjoined from receiving from the United
States any of said rents.
On the 10th of May, 1879, the cause was heard upon the
matters embraced in that petition, and on motion of the Trust
Company, and with the consent of the other parties, Bradley
was appointed receiver in the cause. He was directed to take
charge of the property, and collect the rents therefor, "excepting, however, the rents accrued and to accrue from the
6th day of June, 1878, to the 1st day of July, 1879, which
have been or are to be collected and received by the said
Alexander IR.Shepherd or his assigns." It was further ordered
that the parties be enjoined from applying for or receiving any
moneys due or to become due on account of the use and occupation of the premises, save and except the rents for the period
just named.
Subsequently, upon the petition of Bradley, as receiver,
Nathaniel Wilson was made a party to the cause - he having,
in his capacity as an attorney, received the proceeds of the
draft for $1800 issued by the United States in discharge of
the judgment for the rent of the premises for the year ending
June 30, 1876, and a draft for the rent accruing after that
date and up to June 6, 1878. Wilson appeared and answered,

FREEDMAN'S SAVING CO. v. SHEPHERD.

499

Statement of the Case.

stating that he held the proceeds of the draft for $1800, less
certain sums deducted therefrom, and, also, the draft for
$3475, subject to the order of the court.
John W. Thompson filed a petition praying leave to intervene for the protection of his interests. This petition was
afterwards withdrawn, and he instituted an original suitBradley,
the second of the above named causes -against
Shepherd, the Trust Company, the trustees in Shepherd's
deed of November 15, 1876, William Thompson, the trustee
in the deed of March 10, 1873, and Nathaniel Wilson. From
the pleadings and evidence in that suit it appears that Thompson holds Shepherd's two notes of $7000 and $8000, on which,
at the time he sued, there was due a balance of $11,677.28,
with interest at the rate of 8 per cent per annum on $8000
thereof from March 10, 1875, and on $3677.28 from June 22,
1875. These notes constituted the indebtedness referred to in
the deed of trust to William Thompson, to secure the payment of which, Bradley and Shepherd, with the consent of
the latter's trustees, executed the writing of June 21, 1877.
Thompson's suit was consolidated with the one brought by
Shepherd.
On the 18th of January, 1880, the restraining order made
August 2, 1877, in Shepherd's suit, was set aside; and, on the
28th of February, 1880, the property having in the meantime
been sold under Bradley's deed and purchased by the Commissioners of the Trust Company - leaving due on Bradley's
notes more than $11,000 - the receiver was directed to deliver
possession to the Commissioners, who were authorized to apply
for, collect, and receive the rents; issues and profits of the
property thereafter falling due.
The amount of rent collected by the receiver, less his commission, was $787.50. The amount in the hands of Wilson,
including the draft for $34:75, was $4675.
The final decree was of the character indicated in the beginning of the opinion. In respect to the draft for $3475, the
decree required Bradley, Shepherd, Taylor, Bacon and Cross
to indorse the same, and directed its collecti6n by Wilson, and
the payment by him to Thompson of the proceeds, together

OCTOBER TERM.

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

with the balance in his hands of the $1800 draft. It was
further ordered that the $787.50 in the hands of the receiver
be paid to the trustees of Shepherd.
Mr. William H. Mattingly for Shepherd.
ley was with him on the brief.
.r.

Xlr. A. C. Brad

Enoch Totten for the Freedman's Savings and Trust

Company.
Mr. H. H. Wells and .Mr..Afartin .. .Morrisfor Thompson.

IMR.

JusTicE HARLAN,

after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
What rights did the Trust Company acquire, under Bradley's deed, in respect to the income or rents of the mortgaged
property, accruing after the execution of that instrument?
This is the principal question presented for our consideration,
and will be first examined.
In Gillman.v. Ill. & Miss. Tel. Co., 91 U. S. 603, 616, the question was as to the disposition of certain earnings of a railroad,
accruing after a decree of foreclosure and sale, and before the
purchaser at the sale was let into possession. The first, in
point of time, of the mortgages conveying the property to
secure the company's bonds, provided, among other things,
that it might remain in possession and operate the road, enjoying the revenues thereof, until default occurred in paying
the interest or the principal of its bonds at maturity; and if
such -default continued six months, or if the company failed to
set apart, deposit, and apply certain moneys, as required by
the mortgage, then the trustees might, and it should be their
duty, to enter upon and take possession of and, by agents,
operate the mortgaged property. The second mortgage contained substantially the same provisions. After the decree of
foreclosure and sale was passed, a judgment creditor of the
company, proceeding under the local law, garnished, in the
hands of the company's agents at its various stations. moneys
received by them from the operation of the road, the company

FREEDMAN'S SAVING CO. v. SHEPHERD.

501

Opinion of the Court.

having been permitted to remain in possession up to the time
of the sale under the decree. The trustees in the mortgage
claimed that these moneys should be applied in payment of
the balance remaining unpaid on their mortgage bonds. This
claim was denied. The court - following the previous case
of Galveston Railroad v. Cowdrey, 11 Wall. 459-said: "It
would have been competent for the court in limine, upon a
proper showing, to appoint a receiver and clothe him with the
duty of taking charge of the road and receiving its earnings,
within such limit of time as it might see fit to prescribe. It
might have done the same thing subsequently, during the
progress of the suit. When the final decree was made, a receiver might have been appointed, and required to receive all
the income and earnings- until the sale was made and confirmed, and possession delivered over to the vendee. Nothing
of this kind was done. There was simply a decree of sale.
The decree was wholly silent as to the possession and earnings
in the meantime. It follows that neither, during that period,
was in any' wise affected by the action of the court." Again:
"It is clearly implied in these mortgages that the railroad
company should hold possession and receive the earnings until
the mortgagees should take possession, or the proper judicial
authority should interpose. Possession draws after it the
right to receive and apply the income. Without this the road
could not be operated, and no profit could be made.
If the mortgagees were not satisfied, they had the remedy in
their own hands, and could, at any moment, invoke the aid of
the law, or interpose themselves without it. They did neither."
In American Bridge Co. v. RHeidlelach, 94 U. S. 798, 800,
the mortgage included the rents, issues and profits of the
mortgaged property, so far as it was necessary to keep it in
repair, and pledged such rents, issues and profits to the payment of the interest on the mortgage bonds as it matured, and
to the creation of a sinking fund for the redemption and payment of the principal. In the event of a continuous default
for six months in meeting the interest, the trustees, upon the
written request of the holders of one-half of the outstanding
bonds, were authorized to take possession of the mortgaged

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

premises, and receive all rents and claims due and to become
due to the company. In a contest between the trustees and a
judgment creditor, as to which was entitled to certain moneys
in the hands of the mortgagor, the decision was in favor of
the creditor, the court saying: "In this case, upon the default
which occurred, the mortgagees had the option to take personal possession of the mortgaged premises, or to file a bill,
have a receiver appointed, and possession delivered to him.
In either case, the income would thereafter have been theirs.
Until one or the other was done, the mortgagor, as Lord
Mansfield said in Cliinnery v. Black, 3 Doug. 390, was
'owner to all the world, and entitled tQ all the profit made."'
In Rountze v. Omaha Hotel Co., 107 U. S. 378, 392, it was
held that a bond given on appeal with supersedeas, from a
final decree of foreclosure and sale, did not cover rents and
profits, or the use and detention of the property, pending the
appeal. The court said that "in the case of a mortgage, the
land is in the nature of a pledge; and it is only the land itself
-the specific thing- which is pledged. The rents and
profits are not pledged; they belong to the tenant in possession, whether the mortgagor or a third person claiming under
him.

.

.

.

The taking of the rents and profits prior to the

sale does not injure the mortgagee, for the simple reason that
they do not belong to him.

.

.

.

But perception of rents

and profits is the mortgagor's right until a final determination
of the right to sell, and a sale made accordingly."
It is, of course, competent for the parties to provide, in the
mortgage, for the payment of rents and profits to the mortgagee, while the mortgagor remains in possession. But when
the mortgage contains no such provision, and even where the
income is expressly pledged as security for the mortgage debt,
with the right in the mortgagee to take possession upon the
failure of the mortgagor to perform the conditions of the
mortgage, the general rule is that the mortgagee is not entitled to the rents and profits of the mortgaged premises until
he takes actual possession, or until possession is taken, in his
behalf, by a receiver, Teal v. Walker, 111 U. S. 242; Grant v.
Pkhenix Life Ins. Co., 121 U. S. 105, 117; or until, in proper

FREEDMAN'S SAVING CO. v. SHEPHERD.
Opinion of the Court.

form, he demands and is refused possession. Dow v. 2emphis
J1ailroadCo., 124 VI.S. 652, 654. See also Sage v. Jerpohis
and Little Rock Railroad Co., 125 U. S. 361.
The principles announced in these cases are decisive against
the claim of the Trust Company to the rents of the property
represented by the two drafts delivered by the United States
to Wilson. Bradley's deed pledged the property, not the rents
accruing therefrom, as security for the payment of his notes.
It is true, it provides, generally, that the mortgagor may
remain in possession and receive rents and profits, until there
is default upon his part. But the only effect of that provision
was to open the way to compel him to submit to a sale and
thereby lose possession. The deed did not give the mortgagee
or the trustees the right, immediately upon such default, to take
possession and appropriate the rents of the property. It only
gave the trustees authority, when such default occurred, to sell
upon short notice, and, in that way, oust the mortgagor, and
suspend his right to further appropriate the income of the
property. Even if the deed had expressly pledged the income
as security for the debts named, the mortgagor, according to
the doctrines of the cases cited, would have been entitled to
the income, until, at least, possession was demanded under the
deed; or until his possession was disturbed by a sale under
the deed of trust or, in advance of a sale, by having a receiver
appointed for the benefit of the mortgagee. As was said in
Eountze v. Omaha Hotel Co., 107 U. S. 395, "courts of equity
always have the power where the debtor is insolvent, and the
mortgaged property is an insufficient security for the debt, and
there is good cause to believe that it will be wasted or deteriorated in the hands of the mortgagor, as by cutting of timber,
suffering dilapidation, etc., to take charge of the property, by
means of a receiver, and preserve not only the corpus, but the
rents and profits, for the satisfaction of the debt. When justice requires this course to be pursued, and it is resorted to
by the mortgagee, it will give him ample protection."
In the present case, it appears that prior to the time fixed
for the sale under Bradley's deed of trust, and before the Trust
Company filed its cross-bill asking, among other things, for a

OCTOBER TERM.

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

receiver of the rents of the mortgaged property, Bradley and
Shepherd, with the consent of Shepherd's trdstees, had pledged
the rents of the property as security for Thompson's debts.
As Bradley's deed of trust did not pledge the rents as security
for his notes to the Trust Company, the pledge of such rents
by himself and Shepherd, his assignee, for Thompson's benefit,
did not violate any right secured to it; for, as we have shown
until a sale was had, pursuant to the deed of trust, and possession taken under such sale, it had no right, by the terms of
the deed, to take the income of the trust property. So that,
if a receiver had been appointed immediately upon the filing"
October 25, 1877, of the cross-bill of the Trust Company, and
if all the rents represented by the two drafts of $1800 and
$3475 had been collected by the receiver, they would still, in
virtue of the assignment of June 21, 1877, by Bradley and
Shepherd, have belonged to Thompson, as between Aim anl
the Trust Company; unless, as contended, the transfer by
Bradley to Shepherd of the lease to the United States, and
their assignment for the benefit of Thompson, are absolutely
void, for every purpose, and as to everybody, under the provisions of the statutes relating to the transfer and assignment
of contracts with, or claims against, the United States.
It is insisted by the Trust Company that the transfer by
Bradley to Shepherd of the lease of June 6, 1873, was void
under § 3737 of the Revised Statutes, which provides: "No
contract or order, or any interest therein, shall be transferred
by the party to whom such contract or order is given to any
other party, and any such transfer shall cause the annulment
of the contract or order transferred so far as the United States
are concerned. All rights of action, however, for any breach
of such contract by the contracting parties are reserved to the
United States."
This provision was brought forward from an act of Congress, approved July 17, 1862, entitled "An act to define the
pay and emoluments of certain officers of the army, and for
other purposes."
12 Stat. 594, 596. In the original act it
immediately followed a section providing "that all contracts
made for, or orders given for the Purchase of goods or sup-

FREEDMAN'S SAVING CO. v. SHEPHERD.

505

Opinion of the Court.

plies by any department of the government, shall be promptly
reported to Congress by the proper head of such department,
if Congress shall at the time be in session, and if not in session, said reports shall be made at the commencement of the
next ensuing session." We are of opinion that, whatever may
be the scope and effect of § 3737, it does not embrace a lease
of real estate to be used for public purposes, under which the
lessor is not required to perform any service for the government, and has nothing to do, in respect to the lease, except to
receive from time to time the rent agreed to be paid. The
assignment of such a lease is not within the mischief which
Congress intended to prevent. Although a lease, such as
Bradley made, is a "contract," in the broadest sense of that
word, we are not prepared to hold that it is of the class of
contracts, the transfer of which or of any interest therein is
prohibited by § 3737.
It is also contended that the assignment made on June 21,
1877, by Bradley and Shepherd is void under § 3477 of the
Revised Statutes, which provides that "all transfers and assignments made of any claim upon the United States, or of
any part of it br share thereof, or interest therein, whether
absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the consideration therefor, and all powers of attorney, orders, or other
authorities for receiving payment of any such claim or any
part or share thereof, shall be absolutely null and void, unless
they are freely made and executed in the presence of at least
two attesting witnesses, after the allowance of such a claim,
the ascertainment of the amount due, and the issuing of a.
warrant for the payment thereof."
This court has frequently had occasion to construe this section. . United States v. Gillis, 95 U. S. 407; Erwin v. United
States, 97 U. S. 392; Spoford v. _i0'k, 97 U. S. 484:; Goodman v. Yiblack, 102, U. S. 556; Bailey v. United States, 109
U. S.432; St. Paul &c.Railroad v. United States, 112 U. S.
733; fobs v. XfLEean, 117 U. S.567. Undoubtedly, the lease
made by Bradley to the United States created, in his favor
what, in some sense, was a "claim upon the United States"
for each year's rent as it fell due. And, if the statute

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

embraces a claim of such a character, there could not have
been any valid transfer or assignment of it in advance of its
allowance, which could have been made the basis of a suit by
the assignee against the United States, or which would compel the government to recognize the transfer or assignment.
It is, perhaps, also true that, under some circumstances, the
assignor, before the allowance of the claim and the issuing of
the warrant, may disregard such an assignment altogether.
But when the government ascertained the amount of rent
due under Bradley's lease, and, with his consent, allowed the
same to him for the use of Shepherd, for the use of Taylor,
Bacon, and Cross, trustees, we perceive nothing in the words
or the policy of the statute preventing Thompson from asserting his rights either against the parties or any of them, named
in the warrants issued by the government, ,or against the
Trust Company, the mortgagee of the premises. The object
,of the statute, as was said in Baleiy v. United States, 109.
U. S. 432, was to protect the government and not the claimant, and to prevent frauds upon the Treasury; and that "an
-effectual means to that end was to authorize the officers of
the government to disregard any assignment or transfer of the
,claim, or any power of attorney to collect it, unless made or
executed after the allowance of the claim, the ascertainment
of the amount due thereon, and the issuing of the warrant
for the payment thereof." Here, the officers of the government chose to recognize the assignment, and of their action
-neither Bradley nor Shepherd, nor Shepherd's trustees, can
rightfully complain. The government is acquitted of any liability in respect to the claim for refit, for its officers have acted
in conformity with the directions, not only of the original claim-ant,but of his assignee, Shepherd, and of Shepherd's trustees.
The simple question is, whether the money received from the
government shall be diverted from the purpose to which Bradley, Shepherd, and Shepherd's trustees agreed in writing that
it should be devoted, namely, to the payment of the debts
Thompson holds against Shepherd. This question must be
answered in the negative; and in so adjudging we do not contravene the letter or the spirit of the statute relating to the
assignment of claims upon the United States.

ROBERTSON v. SICHEL.
Syllabus.

It only remains to say a word in reference to that part of
the decree giving to Shepherd's trustees the rent which Bradley, as receiver, collected.
We have already shown that
Bradley, not having pledged the income of the property to the
Trust Company, could pledge it as security for debts held
against him by other creditors. After executing the deed of
1873, he conveyed the premises to Shepherd, and also assigned
to him the benefit of the lease made to the government.
Shepherd included the premises in his deed to Taylor and
others of November 15, 1876, and expressly agreed that the
rents, issues, and profits therefrom should be applied in payment of the debts named in that deed. The right of those
trustees to the rents, issues, and profits which accrued before
any sale under Bradley's deed to the Trust Company, and
prior to actual possession being taken under such sale, was,
consequently, superior to any that company had. That right
could not be defeated by anything the company did, whether
by means of a receiver or otherwise. Whether the money in
the hands of tht receiver belonged to Thompson rather than
to Shepherd's trustees is a question not before us, since
Thompson has not appealed from the decree.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion that there is no
error in the decree to the prejudice of either of the appellants,
and it is, in all respects,
Afflrmed.

ROBERTSON v. SICOEL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 269.

Argued and Submitted May 1, 1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.

A collector of customs is not personally liable for a tort committed by his
subordinates, in negligently keeping the trunk of an arriving passenger
on a pier, instead of sending it to the public store, so that it was destroyed by fire; where there is no evidence to connect the collector personally with the wrong, or that the subordinates were not competent, or
-were not properly selected for their positions.

