PROVIDENCE STEAMSHIP CO. v. CLARE.

45

Statemenf of the Case.

Congress, and that franchise was accepted, and the roads have
been constructed in conformity thereto.
It conclusively appears, therefore, that the Southern- Pacific
Railroad Company did receive from the United States government, and still enjoys, important franchises connected with its
railroads.
It follows that in each one of the cases now before us, the
assessment made by the State Board of Equalization comprised
the value of franchises or property which the board was prohibited by the constitution of the State or of the United States
from including therein; and that these values are so blended
with the other items of which the assessment is composed that
they cannot be separated therefrom. The assessments are,
therefore, void. This renders it unnecessary to express any
opinion on the application of the Fourteenth Amendment, as
the result would not be different whatever view we might take
on that subject.
Thejudgments in all the cases are affimed.

PROVIDENCE AND STONINGTON STEAMSHIP
'COMPANY v. CLARE'S ADMINISTRATRIX.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 265. Argued April 26,1888.-Decided Mday 14,1888.

In this case, which was an action for damages for a death caused, in a collision, by the alleged negligence of the owner of a vessel on which it
was claimed the deceased was a passenger, the judgment below is reversed for error in refusing to direct a verdict for the defendant on the
ground that there was no evidence that the deceased lost his life by
reason of the collision, or by the negligence of the defendant, and in
refusing to grant the request of the defendant to go to the jury on the
question whether the deceased lost his life by reason of the collision.

THIs was an action to recover damages for injuries resulting
to the widow and children of Charles C. Clare by reason of

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

his death, alleged to have been caused by the negligence of the
steamship company as common carriers, while he was a passenger on one of their steamers. Verdict for plaintiff and judgment on the verdict. Defendant sued out this writ of error.
The case is stated in the opinion.
.A&. Wtheeler-H Peckham for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mm.

JUSTICE

BLATc'onnR

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, brought in the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, by Almira R. Clare, as administratrix
of the estate of Charles C. Clare, deceased, against the Providence and Stonington Steamship Company, a Rhode Island
corporation, to recover the sum of $5000, with interest from
June 11, 1880, as statutory damages, for the death of Charles
C. Clare. The plaintiff is his widow, and he left four minor
children, his heirs at law and next of kin.
The complaint alleges that the defendant was the owner of
two steamboats, the Narragansett and the Stonington, running between Stonington, Connecticut, and New York City;
that, on or about the 11th of June, 1880, the defendant received Clare on the Narragansett for the purpose of conveying
him therein as a passenger from New York City to Stonington, for a reasonable compensation paid to it by Clare; that
the Narragansett, under the management and direction of
the defendant, having Clare on board as a passenger, and
proceeding through the waters of Long Island Sound, met the
Stonington proceeding -on her way to New York City; that,
by the negligence of the defendant, the two vessels came into
collision, whereby the Narragansett was so injured that fire
immediately broke out on her, and she sank within a few
moments, and Clare, without any neglect on his part, was
drowned; that the collision occurred either in the State of
New York or in the State of Connecticut; that § 9, of c.
6, title 19, of the Laws of 1875 of the State of Connecticut,
provides that all damages resulting in death, recovered in an

PROVIDENCE STEAMSHIP CO. v. CLARE.
Opinion of the Court.

action brought by an executor or administrator, shall inure to
the benefit of the husband or widow and heirs of the deceased
person; and that § 1, c. 78, of the Laws of 1877 of the
State of Connecticut, provides that, in all actions by an executor or administrator, for injuries resulting in death from negligence, such executor or administrator may recover from the
party legally in fault for such injuries just damages, not exceeding $5000, to be distributed as provided in § 9 of c.
6, title 19, of the Laws of 1875, but such action must be
brought within one year from the neglect complained of. This
suit was brought within the year.
By the Code of Civil Procedure of the State of New York,
§ 1902, it is provided as follows: "The executor or administrator of a decedent, who has left, him or her surviving, a husband, wife, or next of kin, may maintain an action to recover
damages for a wrongful act, neglect, or default, by which the
decedent's death was caused, against a natural person who, or
a corporation which, would have been liable to an action in
favor of the decedent, by reason thereof, if death had not ensued." It is provided by § 1904, that in the case of a trial by
jury, "the damages awarded to the plaintiff may be such a
sum, not exceeding five thousand dollars, as the jury
deems to be a fair and just compensation for the pecuniary
injuries, resulting from the decedent's death, to the person
or persons for whose benefit the action is brought;" and that,
"when final judgment for the plaintiff is rendered, the clerk
must add to the sum so awarded, interest thereupon from the
decedent's death, and include it in the judgment."
The action was removed by the defendant into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, on the ground that the plaintiff was a citizen of New
Jersey and the defendant a citizen of Rhode Island. The
answer, put in in the Circuit Court, contains a denial in the prescribed form, covering the allegation of the complaint that
the defendant received Clare on the Narragansett for the
purpose of conveying him therein as a passenger from New
York City to Stonington, for a reasonable compensation paid
to it by Clare. It also denies the negligence alleged, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

denies all liability to the plaintiff. It also sets up, that it had,.
by proper proceedings in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York, taken the benefit of the statute of the United States for the limitation of the
liability of ship-owners, in respect to the Narragansett, by a
transfer of its interest in her to a trustee appointed by that
court.
At the trial, before a jury, a verdict was, by direction of
the court, rendered for the sum of $5000, on the 20th of April,
1885; the interest was, under the statute of New York, computed by the clerk at the sum of $1522.50; the plaintiff's costs
were taxed at $78.25; and a judgment was rendered for the
plaintiff for the damages, interest, and costs, amounting in all
to $6600.75.
At the trial, the plaintiff called as witnesses the master of
the Narragansett, and the pilot and the engineer of the Stonington, for the purpose of showing negligence on the part of
the Stonington. The plaintiff also called as a witness one
Fisher, who testified as follows: "In June, 1880, I resided in
Jersey City. I knew Charles C. Clare; he was a friend of
mine. On the Sunday following the 11th of June, 1880, I
went to Stonington and found the body of Charles C. Clare,
and brought the same to Jersey City for burial. What first
led me to go to Stonington was newspaper reports, and then
information coming to me, that -Mr.Clare had lost his life by
this accident. I found his body in the lower part of a furniture establishment, which was being temporarily used as a
morgue." The defendant then called as a witness a steamboat captain, and examined him on the general question as to
whether the Stonington, at the speed at which she was running, was going at a moderate speed in a fog, under the requirement of Rule 21-of § 4233 of the Revised Statutes, which
provides that "every steam-vessel shall, when in a fog, go at
a moderate speed." The defendant also called as a witness
the bow watchman of the Stonington. After both sides had
rested, the plaintiff moved for a direction to the jury to find a
verdict for the plaintiff for $5000. The defendant then moved
that the court direct the jury to find a verdict for the defend-

PROVIDENCE STEAMSHIP CO. v. CLARE.
Opinion of the Court.

ant, because there was no evidence that the intestate went on
or in the Narragansett, the evidence being that he was dead,
but there being no evidence as to how he died. The court
then suggested to the counsel for the plaintiff that he had better prove, if he could, that the deceased was on the Narragansett. The plaintiff was then sworn as a witness, and testified
that, on the afternoon of June 11, 1880, she crossed over, with
her son Charles, by a ferry-boat, to New York, to take him to
his father, and left him with his father on the New York side
of the ferry-bridge, and did not herself go outside of the ferry
or to the Narragansett. The plaintiff then called the son
Charles as a witness, who testified that, on that afternoon, he
went with his father on board of the Narragansett, and went
out on her, and was on her at the time of the collision; that
his father was with him shortly before the collision; and that
he did not see his father after the collision. The defendant
then asked the court to direct the jury to find a verdict for the
defendant, on the ground that there was no evidence in the
case that the father and son went as passengers on the boat,
or that they had bought a ticket, or that they had any room,
or that there was any contract made between the parties;
that there was no evidence that the intestate lost his life in
consequence of the accident; that he was seen dead in Stonington; but that there was no evidence that any life was lost
on the Narragansett, or that anything happened to the intestate. The court remarked that it thought that the evidence
then in, in the case, was sufficient, and that it must deny the
defendant's motion and grant the plaintiff's motion. The defendant then asked the court to direct a verdict for the defendant, on the ground that there was no evidence that the intestate
lost his life by reason of the collision, or by the negligence of the
defendant. The court denied the motion, and the defendant
excepted. The defendant conceded that, if the plaintiff could
recover at all, the damages were $5000. The defendant then
asked to go to the jury on the questions (1) whether the plaintiff's intestate had lost his life by reason of the collision of
the two vessels; and (2) whether the defendant or its servants
had been guilty of any negligence in the navigation of the
VOL. cxxvn-4

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887

Opinion of the Court.

Stonington, contributing to the collision. The court denied
each of these requests, and to each denial the defendant excopted. The jury then returned a verdict for the plaintiff, by
direction of the court, for $5000. The defendant has brought
a writ of error to review the judgment.
There has been no appearance or argument or brief in this
court for the defendant in error, but the case has been orally
argued and a brief submitted for the plaintiff in error. A citation was issued and duly served on the attorney for the plaintiff.
We think that the court erred at the trial, in refusing to
grant the motion to direct a verdict for the defendant on the
ground that there was no evidence that the plaintiff's intestate
lost his life by reason of the collision or by the negligence of
the defendant, and in refusing to grant the request of the defendant to go to the jury on the question whether the plaintiff's intestate had lost his life by reason of the collision. The
only evidence of the death of the intestate was that of the
witness Fisher, who testified that he saw the dead body of
the intestate in Stonington, on the Sunday following the 11th
of June, 1880, which was the 13th of June, 1880. There is
no evidence to sustain the allegation of the complaint that the
intestate was drowned as a consequence of the collision, or as
to what caused his death, or as to how his body came to be
found in Stonington. The question as to whether the intestate lost his life in consequence of the collision was, at least,
one for the jury, and the evidence was not sufficient to warrant the direction of a verdict for the plaintiff on that point.
We express no opinion on the question of negligence in the
navigation of the Stonington, contributing to the collision, or
on the question of her rate of speed in the fog. Different
testimony on these questions may be given on a new trial,
from that which was given on the trial now under review.
Nor do we express any opinion on the question of the sufficiency of the evidence to show, as alleged in the complaint, that
the intestate was a passenger on the Narragansett, for a reasonable compensation paid by him to the defendant.
Thejudgment of the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case
is rernandedto that court with a direction to award a new
trial.

