OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

diction of this court in the present case is undoubted, but, as
the previous remarks in this opinion show, the Circuit Court
never had jurisdiction of it; and while we may be authorized
to reverse the decree so rendered we have no power to amend
the record so as to give jurisdiction to that court by proceedings here. The case in this court must be tried upon the
record made in the Circuit Court. In this instance there has
been a removal from a tribunal of a state into a Circuit Court
of the United States, and there is no precedent known to us
which authorizes an amendment to be made, even in the Circuit Court, by which grounds of jurisdiction may be made
to appear which were not presented to the state court on
the motion for removal. In fact, under the fifth section of
the act of March 3, 1875, it being manifest upon the face of the
affidavit or petition for removal in the present suit that the
case had been improperly removed into the Circuit Court, it
was the duty of that court at all times and at any time during
its pendency before it to have remanded the case to the tribunal of the State where it originated. We can do no more,
however, than to reverse the action of the court below from
which this appeal was taken, because it had no jurisdiction of
the case.
.The decree in this case is reversed for want of jurisdiction
in the Circuit Court, and the case remanded for further
proceedings.

CULBERTSON v. THE H. WITBECK COMPANY.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN.
No. 217. Argued April 11, 1888.- Decided April 30, 1888.

The statutes of Michigan require the attestation of two witnesses to the
grantor's signature. A deed of husband and wife was offered in evidence, the attestation to which was: "Signed, sealed, and delivered in
presence of S. W. for" the husband; "W. H. R., G. H. for" the wife;
and there was a certificate that "the word' half' in the twelfth line was

CULBERTSON v. WITBECK CO.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.
interlined before signing S. W., E. W." E. W. signing this certificate
with S. W. was the justice of the peace who took the acknowledgment,
and his certificate of acknowledgment stated that he knew the person
who made the acknowledgment to be the person who executed the instrument. Held, that the execution of the deed was proved, and it was properly admitted in evidence.
A certificate by a master in chancery and notary public in New Jersey, taking an acknowledgment there of a deed of land in Michigan that he is
"satisfied that the parties making the acknowledgment are the grantors
in the within deed of conveyance," is a sufficient certificate that they
were the same persons as those named as grantors in the deed; but if
defective in this respect, the defect is cured under the laws of Michigan
by a certificate from the proper official that the person taking the acknowledgment was "a master in chancery and notary public," and that ' the
annexed instr ument is executed and the proof of acknowledgment thereto
taken in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey."
The will of a citizen of New York, dying in the city of New York, was
admitted to probate there. A duly authenticated copy being presented
for probate in Michigan, notice to all parties interested by publication
was ordered, and on proof of such publication, and after hearing and
proof, the instrument was admitted to probate in Michigan, and ancillary
letters were issued. Held, that the parties were properly brought before
the court by publication, and that the will was properly admitted to
probate.
An objection as to the sufficiency of a certificate of a register of deeds
to an instrument offered in evidence which was not made at the trial
cannot be taken here.
In Michigan a declaration of trust which declares that the parties executing
it hold the property in trust for themselves and two other persons is an
express trust, and under the laws of that State the whole estate in law
and in equity is vested in the trustees.
'When a party to an action of ejectment in Michigan sets up a tax title,
several years old, it is competent for the other party, after showing by
the official records that an illegal expenditure of public money was ordered, sufficient under the laws of the State to vitiate the whole tax if
paid from it, to prove by parol evidence that the sum so ordered to be
paid waspaid out of the moneys raised by the tax in question.

EJEOTMENT. Verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. Defendant sued out this writ of error. The case is stated in the
.opinion.

Mr. D. iL.Ball and Mr. Walte, R. Smith for plaintiff in
error. 31r. A. T. Britton and fr,. A. B. Browne were with
them on the brief.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

.r. Edward Cahill for defendant in error.
Brown was with him on the brief.

Arb. B. J

MR. JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action of ejectment, originally brought in the
Circuit Court for the County of Marquette, in the State of
Michigan, by The If. Witbeck Company, plaintiff, against
William C. Culbertson, defendant.
The object of the suit was to recover certain lands situated
in the county of Marquette, to which the plaintiff claimed
title in fee. The case was removed to the Circuit Court of the
United States, where a trial was had which resulted in a verdict in favor of the plaintiff. This, as a matter of right, was
set aside, upon motion, under the law of Michigan, and a new
trial granted, which also resulted in a verdict and judgment in
favor of the plaintiff. It is this which the present writ of
error brings up for review.
During the progress of the trial the plaintiff established title
by various conveyances, beginning with patents from the
United States, in William A. Pratt. As a link in the chain of
title from Pratt, the plaintiff, offered in evidence the record of
a deed from Pratt and wife to Still Manning and William
Wright, which was executed and acknowledged in the State
of Michigan. This was objected to by the defendant upon the
ground that it was attested by only one witness as to the sig'
nature of William A. Pratt. The instrument was, however,
admitted in evidence notwithstanding the objection, to which
the defendant excepted. This ruling is made the ground of
the first assignment of error.
The deed offered in evidence was signed, acknowledged and
recorded according to the laws of the State of Michigan. It
is admitted that there was one witness to the signature of Mr.
Pratt and two witnesses to the signature of Mrs. Pratt, but it
is denied that there was a second witness to the signature of
the former. The part of the record containing the testimonium is as follows:

CULBERTSON v. WITBECK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"In witness whereof the said party of the first part have
hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above
written.

"W. A. PuRT.

[L. s.]

"HARmr W. PRATT. [L. s.]
Signed, sealed and delivered in presence of"STEPHEN WALSH,

"For William A. Pratt.

"W. H. ROCKWELL,
"GEO. HOWE,

"For Harriet W. Pratt.
"The word ' half ' in the twelfth line was interlined before
signing [on the second page].
"STEPHEN WALiH.
"EBENEZER WARNER."

Ebenezer Warner was the justice of the peace who took the
acknowledgment of Pratt on the 29th day of October, 1855,
which is also the date of the deed, and in his certificate of such
acknowledgment he says: "I certify that I know the person
who made the said acknowledgment to be the individual described in and who executed the within instrument." It will
also be noted that he signs with Walsh as a witness, and that
their signatures immediately follow the statement as to the
word "half" having been interlined before signing.
These circumstances are sufficient to show that Walsh and
Warner were witnesses to the signature of Mr. Pratt, and the
matter may be easily explained by supposing that Rockwell
and Howe, the two witnesses for Harriet W. Pratt, inserted
their names above those of Walsh and Warner as witnesses
for William A. Pratt. Under all the circumstances we think
the court was correct in admitting the deed in evidence. Carpenter v. Dexter, 8 Wall. 513.
The second assignment of error also rests upon an alleged
insufficiency in the acknowledgment of another deed, which
was offered in evidence by the plaintiff, from Still Manning
and wife and William Wright and wife to Edward 0. Wilder,

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

conveying all the lands in controversy. To the admission of
this deed defendant's counsel objected "for the reason that it
does not appear on said certificate that the persons acknowledging were the same persons as those named as grantors in
said deed." The acknowledgment in this case was taken in
the State of New Jersey, before William A. Richter, a master
in chancery and notary public, who says in his certificate that
the parties, naming them, personally appeared before him,
"who, I am satisfied, are the grantors in the within deed of
conveyance." This language is the defect complained of by
defendant.
We are inclined to the opinion that this is sufficient evidence
that the parties who appeared before him were the grantors
in the deed. If he was satisfied of that fact the court cannot
now inquire into the evidence by which he reached that conclusion. But any difficulty on this subject is removed by the
certificate of the clerk of the county of Essex in that State,
that said Richter was a master in chancery and a notary public in and for said county, and "that the annexed instrument
[meaning the deed] is executed and the proof of acknowledgment thereto taken in accordance with the laws of said State
of New Jersey." This official statement that the acknowledgment was made according to the laws of the State is, we
think, sufficient to make it valid, because the law of Michigan
provides, (Howell's Statutes, § 5660,) where such acknowledgments are taken out of the State, that the clerk certifying
to the official character of the officer shall also state "that
the deed is executed and acknowledged according to the laws
of such State."
The third assignment of error is based upon the fact that
the court allowed the plaintiff to put in evidence a record
from the office of the register of deeds of Marquette County
of the will of Edward C. Wilder. The objection of defendant's counsel to the admission of this certified copy of the
will, as stated in the bill of exceptions, is "that said record
contained no proof that the probate court of the county of
Marquette obtained jurisdiction to make the order admitting
said will to probate in this State, and that it contains no

CULBERTSON v. WITBECK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

record of any authentication or probate by any foreign court
or officer." This objection being overruled an exception was
taken by counsel for the defendant to the admission of the
record.
The copy contained, after the seal of Wilder, the testator,
the usual attestation of two witnesses, who declare that the
will was signed in the presence of each of them, and that it
was at the same time declared by him to be his last will and
testament, and that at his request and in his presence they
signed their names as witnesses thereto. The testator died in
New York, and the paper offered for probate in the county of
Marquette, in Michigan, purported to be a copy of the will as
it had been probated in the former State. The following
papers constitute the proceedings in the probate court for the
county of Marquette:
"STATE OF MICHIGAN, County of Xarquette, ss:
"At a session of the probate court for the county of Marquette, holden at the probate office in the city of Marquette, on Monday, the thirty-first day of October, in
the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty-one.
"Present: Edward S. Hardyj judge of probate.
"In the -Matter of the Estate of Edward C. Wilder,
Deceased.
"This day having been appointed by the court for hearing
the petition of James E. Dalliba praying, amongst other
things, for reasons therein set forth, that a certain iistrument,
purporting to be a copy of the last will and testament of said
deceased, and the probate thereof duly authenticated and
heretofore presented to this court with said petition be allowed, filed and recorded. Now come into court the said
petitioner and answers, and it satisfactorily appearing by due
proof on file, that a copy of the order of this court touching
the hearing of said petition made on the seventh day of October last past, had been duly published as therein directed,
whereby all parties interested in the premises were duly notified of said hearing.
"And it further satisfactorily appearing to the court, after

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

a full hearing upon said petition and on examination of the
proofs and allegations of the petitioner, that said deceased
was, at the time of his death, a resident of the city of New
York, in the State of New York, and died leaving his last
will and testament, which was duly approved and allowed
in the surrogate court for, in and of the county of New York,
in the State of New York, according to the laws thereof, and
that he was possessed of estate situate in said county of Marquette, on which said will operates.
"And the evidence touching the premises being materially
considered, it satisfactorily appears that said copy of said will
ought to be allowed in this State as the last will and testament of said deceased.
"It is therefore ordered, adjudged, and declared by this
court that said copy of said last will and testament of said
deceased be allowed, filed, and recorded in this court,.and that
the same shall have full force and effect in this State, as such
will, agreeably to the statute in such case made and provided.
"And it is further ordered that the execution of said last
will and testament be committed, and the administration of
the estate of the said deceased be granted to said Sophia
Wilder, the executrix in said will named, who is ordered to
give bond in the penal sum of one thousand dollars, with sufficient sureties, as required by the statute in such case made
and provided, and that the same being duly approved and
filed, the letters testamentary do issue in the premises.
"EDWARD S. HARDY,

"Judge of Probate.
"STATE

OF MICHIGAN,

County of 111 arquette, ss:

"Probate Court for said County.
"Be it remembered that the annexed and foregoing instrument, being a duly authenticated copy of the last will and
testament of Edward C. Wilder, late of the county of New
York, in the State of New York, deceased, which was duly
allowed, filed, and recorded in said court in pursuance of the
decree thereof, of which the foregoing is a true, full, and
correct copy.

CULBERTSON v. WITBECK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
affixed the seal of said court at the city of Marquette, in said
county, this thirty-first day of October, in the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty-one.
4C[SEAL..]

S. HARDY,
"Judge of Probate."

"EDWARD

We can see no defect of jurisdiction in the probate court of
Marquette County sufficient to justify the rejection of this
copy of the will, or to impeach the action of the probate judge
in ordering it to be recorded. There is in the proceedings the
full recital of the production of the copy of the will, and that
the order for the hearing of the petition, made on the Tth day
of October, "had been duly published as therein directed,
whereby all parties interested in the premises were duly
notified of said hearinc." The court further certifies that the
probate thereof was duly authenticated "and presented to
this court," meaning, evidently, the probate of the will in the
State of New York. The certificate further recites that "it
satisfactorily appears to the court, after a full hearing upon
said petition, and on examination of the proofs and allegations
of the petitioner, that said deceased was, at the time of his
death, a resident of the city of New York, in the State of
New York, and died leaving his last will and testament, which
was duly approved and allowed in the surrogate court for, in
and of the county of New York, in the State of New York,
according to the laws thereof."
This being a recital in the record of the judgment of the
court admitting the instrument to probate, certifying that it
had been fully proved by the "examination of the proofs and
allegations of the petitioner," and that it was duly' admitted
to record, is sufficient. Unless the necessary parties in such
cases could be brought before the court by publication there
would be in many cases an impossibility of doing it at all.
Grgnom v. Astor, 2 How. 319.
There appears to be some controversy in the brief submitted
by counsel as to the fact that the copy of the instrument
offered in evidence is certified from the office of the register

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

of deeds; but as no such objection was made upon the trial
of the case it is unnecessary to discuss it here.
The fourth assignment of error is founded upon the rejection of a deed, called a declaration of trust, made by Still
Manning and William Wright, which was offered by the
defendant. This instrument was signed and acknowledged in
the month of November, 1855, and covered the land now in
controversy. The deed from Manning and Wright to Wilder,
referred to in the second assignment of error, was executed in
July, 1860, nearly five years after this declaration of trust.
The object of the defendant in offering the latter was to show
that the legal title had passed out of Manning and Wright and
that Wilder did not get the title by the deed which was made
to him. Upon the objection of the plaintiff to the introduction of this deed it was rejected by the court, to which ruling
the defendant excepted.
The proposition upon which the defendant sought to introduce this instrument is founded upon certain statutes of the
State of Michigan, of a character similar to those common in
other States, found in Howell's Statutes, §§ 5563 to 5573
inclusive. They comprise the usual provisions for abolishing
uses and trusts, and enact in substance that the use shall vest
in the eestui que trwt as a legal title, except when otherwise
provided. Most of these statutes, however, have relation to
implied trusts, and it is not necessary here to go through all
of them, nor to enter upon their critical discussion at this
time. It is sufficient to say that the paper presented in this
case is not a conveyance to anybody, but it purports to declare
in express terms that the parties executing it hold the property
in trust for themselves and two other persons. It is, therefore, an exTress trust, and comes within the language of
§ 5578, which reads as follows:
"5578. Every express trust, valid as such in its creation,
except as herein otherwise provided, shall vest the whole
estate in the trustees in law and in equity, subject only to the
execution of the trust; and, the person for whose benefit the
trust was created shall take no estate or interest in the lands,
but may enforce the performance of the trust in equity."

CULBERTSON v. WITBECK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

This declaration of trust evidently contemplated that the
legal title remained with the trustees, and that they had the
power and authority to sell and convey the property, the
profits or proceeds to be divided according to the interest
which was declared in the instrument creating the trust. We
think the legal title remained in Manning and Wright, until
by the deed to Wilder they transferred to him the strict legal
title. The deed was therefore properly rejected.
The next and last assignment of error which we propose to
consider relates to the production of various deeds conveying
the lands in question to persons under whom the defendant
claims on account of sales for taxes. These deeds were offered
in evidence and rejected by the court, to which ruling the
defendant excepted.
The principal ground upon which they were held to be
invalid was, that the tax levy under which they were sold
included an illegal allowance for extra compensation to Goodwin and Eddie, who were judges of the state court which
included within its jurisdiction the county of Marquette. It
appeared that the supervisors of that county allowed and paid
to them, out of the tax levies, an additional compensation of
$400 per annum in excess of their salary. It does not seem to
be controverted that, by the law of Michigan, if this sum was
included in the assessment and levy of taxes, on account of
which the sales were made that these deeds represent, the
title based upon them is void. Both parties admit this proposition in argument, and certain authorities referred to in the
briefs establish it as the settled doctrine of that State. Lacey
v. Davis, 4 Mich. 140; Case v. Dean, 16 Mich. 12; Edwards
v. Taliafero, 34 Mich. 13.
In iamnantree v. Lott, 40 Mich. 190, the court said: "A
tax deed is void if a portion of the tax for which it was given
was excessive and invalid." In the recent case of Silsbee v.
Stocde, 441 Mich. 561, the whole subject was very elaborately
reviewed by Judge Cooley, of that court, and the principle
here stated fully established. The strength of the opinion in
d that direction may be seen by the following extract from the
syllabus of the case:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

"The statutory provisions that no sale for delinquent taxes
shall be held invalid unless it be made to appear that all legal
taxes were paid or tendered, and that all taxes shall be presumed to be legally assessed until the contrary is affirmatively
shown (Comp. L., § 1129), are unconstitutional so far as they
sustain sales for taxes which are in part illegal."
Counsel for plaintiff in error deny the sufficiency of the
-evidence produced in regard to the increase of salary by the
county, above what the State allowed to the judge, or that
the fact is established by competent testimony; and it is
urged with much force that this attempt to show now, some
fifteen or twenty years after the transaction, that the tax levy
for the particular years in question did include this increased
compensation, cannot be accomplished by parol testimony.
We think, however, that there is enough in the bill of exceptions which is not parol, but matter found in the records of
the boards of supervisors who made the tax levy, to establish
the fact without any parol testimony. The records of the
proceedings of this body for Marquette County were read in
evidence for each of the years 1861, 1865, 1866, and 1867, the
same being all that appeared therein relative to the equalization of the assessment rolls of the several townships and the
action by which the rate of apportionment of the State and
county taxes for each of those years was fixed. This is spread
in full upon the record in the bill of exceptions. It appears
that the aggregate valuation of the taxable real and personal
property of the county in 1861 was determined to be $1,285,
965.50, and we then find this entry.
"The subject of additional compensation to Judge Goodwin
being under consideration, on motion of
, it was
resolved that all former action of the board on this subject be
rescinded and that the sum of four hundred dollars be paid to
Judge Goodwin in orders on the treasurer of this county, upon
his signing a receipt in full of all demands against the county
on such account, up to the first day of January, A.D. 1862,
such receipt to be filed with the clerk before such orders are
issued."
Then immediately follows the rate of taxation:

CULBERTSON v. WITBECK CO.
Opinion of the Court.

"On motion it was resolved that a tax of six and one-half
mills on the dollar be raised on the taxable property of Marquette and Schoolcraft Counties for the contingent fund, to
defray the general expenses of the county."
The only parol evidence introduced which seems to have
had any influence upon the decision of this question was the
testimony of a witness that Judge Goodwin received this $400
from the county treasury at a time when it must have been
paid out of the levy made at this time. We think that was
competent, and that the date of the receipt of the money
being shown the inference that it was paid out of the tax levy,
which we have already recited, is sufficient.
It is also shown by the records of the board of supervisors,
in regard to the levies of other years, that for the years 1865,
1866, 1867 and 1868, an illegal sum of the same character,
being $350 per annum, was included in the assessment and
paid over to Judge Eddie. The court left it to the jury to determine, under all the evidence which was introduced, whether,
in pursuance of such resolutions, these sums were levied as a
tax and for the purpose, as claimed by the plaintiff, of paying
salaries to these judges. Although he refers in this connection to the additional evidence of two witnesses, Healy and
Maynard, as having some influence upon the determination of
this question, it is quite obvious that the proposition was established of the payment of additional compensation to these
judges out of an unlawful levy of taxes, so far as the lands in
question are concerned. And while the parol testimony was
not necessary to show that the amount paid for that purpose
was included in the tax levy for the years under which these
sales were made, it was competent to show by oral testimony
that these judges actually received the money out of the taxes
collected under those assessments.
These are the only assignments of error which we are called
to consider, and as we do not find that there was error in the
matters alleged, the judgment of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.
VOL. cxxvn-22

