ARKANSAS SMELTING CO. v. BELDEN CO.

379

Statement of the Case.

ARKANSAS VALLEY SMELTING COMPANY
BELDEN MINING COMPANY.

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
I'o. 197. Submitted April 2, 1888.- Decided May 14,1888.

A contract in writing, by which a mining company agrees to sell and deliver lead ore from time to time at the smelting works of a partnership,
to become its property upon delivery, and to be paid for after a subsequent assay of the ore and ascertainment of the price, cannot be assigned by the partnership, without the assent of the mining company, so
far as regards future deliveries of ore. Nor is the mining company, by
continuing to deliver ore to one of the partners after the partnership has
been dissolved and has sold and assigned to him the contract, with its
business and smelting works, estopped to deny the validity of a subsequent assignment by him to a stranger.

THIs was an action brought by a smelting company, incorporated by the laws of Missouri, against a mining company,
incorporated by the laws of Maine, and both doing business in
Colorado by virtue of a compliance with its laws, to recover
damages for the breach of a contract to deliver ore, made by
the defendant with Billing and Bilers, and assigned to the
plaintiff. The material allegations of the complaint were as
follows:
On July 12, 1881, a contract in writing was made between
the defendant of the first part and Billing and Eilers of the
second part, by which it was agreed that the defendant should

sell and deliver to Billing and Eilers at their smelting works
in Leadville ten thousand tons of carbonate lead ore from its
mines at Red Cliff, at the rate of at least fifty tons a day, beginning upon the completion of a railroad from Leadville to Red
Cliff, and continuing until the whole should have been delivered, and that "all ore so delivered shall at once upon the
delivery thereof become the property of the second party;"
and it was further agreed as follows:
"The value of said ore and the price to be paid therefor

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

shall be fixed in lots of about one hundred tons each; that is
to say, as soon as such a lot of ore shall have been delivered
to said second party, it shall be sampled at the works of said
second party, and the sample assayed by either or both of the
parties hereto, and the value of such lots of ore shall be fixed
by such assay; in case the parties hereto cannot agree as to
such assay, they shall agree upon some third disinterested and
competent party, whose assay shall be final. The price to be
paid by said second party for such lot of ore shall be fixed on
the basis hereinafter agreed upon by the closing New York
quotations for silver and common lead, on the day of the delivery of sample bottle, and so on until all of said ore shall
have been delivered.
"Said second party shall pay said first party at said Leadville for each such lot of ore at once, upon the determination
of its assay value, at the following prices," specifying, by reference to the New York quotations, the price to be paid per
pound for the lead contained in the ore, and the price to be
paid for the silver contained in each ton of ore, varying according to the proportions of silica and of iron in the ore.
The complaint further alleged that the railroad was completed on November 30, 1881, and thereupon the defendant,
under and in compliance with the contract, began to deliver
ore to Billing and Eilers at their smelting works, and delivered
167 tons between that date and January 1, 1882, when "the
said firm of Billing and Eilers was dissolved, and the said contract and the business of said firm, and the smelting works at
which said ores were to be delivered, were sold, assigned, and
transferred to G. Billing, whereof the defendant had due
notice;" that after such transfer and assignment the defendant continued to deliver ore under the contract, and between
January 1 and April 21, 1882, delivered to Billing at said
smelting works 894 tons; that on May 1, 1882, the contract,
together with the smelting works, was sold and conveyed by
Billing to the plaintiff, whereof the defendant had due notice;
that the defendant then ceased to deliver ore under the contract, and afterwards refused to perform the contract, and
gave notice to the plaintiff that it considered the contract can-

ARKANSAS SMELTING CO. v. BELDEN CO.

381

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

celled and annulled; that all the ore so delivered under the
contract was paid for according to its terms; that "the plaintiff and its said assignors were at all times during their respective ownerships ready, able, and willing to pay on the like
terms for each lot as delivered, when and as the defendant
should deliver the same, according to the terms of said contract, and the time of payment was fixed on the day of delivery of the ' sample bottle,' by which expression was, by the
custom of the trade, intended the completion of the assay or
test by which the value of the ore was definitely fixed;" and
that "the said Billing and Eilers, and the said G. Billing, their
successor and assignee, at all times since the delivery of said
contract, and during the respective periods when it was held
by them respectively, were able, ready and willing to and did
comply with and perform all the terms of the same, so far as
they were by said contract required; and the said plaintiff
has been at all times able, ready and willing to perform and
comply with the terms thereof, and has from time to time,
since the said contract was assigned to it, so notified the
defendant."
The defendant demurred to the complaint for various reasons, one of which was that the contract therein set forth
could not be assigned, but was personal in its nature, and
could not, by the pretended assignment thereof to the plaintiff, vest the plaintiff with any power to sue the defendant for
the alleged breach of contract.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer, and gave judgment for the defendant; and the plaintiff sued out this writ
of error.
3Er. _R. S. Mon-i.o, 31r. T. X. Patterson,and Mr.
Thomas for plaintiff in error.

. S.

This is an executory contract. The rule as to the assignability of such instruments is that all contracts may be assigned, either before or after the breach, which were not
entered into upon the one side or the other upon the basis of
a personal trust in the peculiar fitness of the other party to

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

perform his part. The illustration so often used is that of an
author to write a book; or an artist to paint a picture; neither
of which can be assigned on the part of the person whose
genius is depended upon. But an agreement to pay $1000 for
a valuable consideration, or to deliver ten tons of coal at so
much per ton, cannot belong to this class of cases, as in either
instance it can make no difference to either party who executes the other part of the contract. Where taste, skill or
genius is one of the elements relied upon the contract cannot be assigned; where it is only a question of so much lost
or so much gained, whoever performs the contract, it may be
assigned.
To which class does the contract in the case at bar belong?
Reduced to its elements the contract amounts to no more than
an agreement on the one side to sell ten thousand tons of ore,
and on the other to receive and pay for the same. It makes
no difference to the one party who gives him the ore, nor to
the other who pays him the price; all that both parties want
is what they have contracted to get. No peculiar fitness on
either side is needed to fulfil the contract, and, in point of
fact, the contract is one which from its very nature has to be
performed largely through the medium of agents. The contract is no more nor less than an article of property to each
party, and the policy of the law is to let such articles of property pass from hand to hand with as much freedom as is
requisite to make them valuable.
While all the cases lay down the rule as we have above
stated, the New York Court of Appeals in .Devln v..Xayor,
63 N. Y. 8, 16, has given us a criterion by which we can the
more readily bring the present case within the terms of the
rule. This criterion is, that whatever contracts are binding
upon the executors or administrators may be assigned, while
those that die with the person cannot be assigned. While it is
true that in both instances we must go back to the principle
of personal skill, taste or genius, as the real test, the fact that
this has been the test so far as executors and administrators
are concerned for centuries of the common law, will make it
much easier to apply in the matter of the assignability of

ARKANSAS SMELTING CO. v. BELDEN CO.

383

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

contracts. So that all the cases deciding the question of the
liability or rights of the executor or administrator upon executory contracts of the decedent, can be quoted as applicable
to the question of the assignability of contracts.
Adopting the law as laid down in that case, we call the
attention of the court first to those cases in which the courts
have applied the rule to executors and administrators, and
then to the assignment of executory contracts.
The general rule as to executors was stated by the Queen's
Bench in the time of Queen Elizabeth to be that "a covenant lies against an executor in every case, although he be
not named; unless it be such a covenant as is to be performed
by the person of the testator which they cannot perform."
-Hyde v. ]Dean and Canons of Windsor, Cro. Eliz. 553.
Lord Coke, a few years later, in the case of Quick v. .Ludrrow, 3 Bulstr. 29, 30, states the rule to be the same, and
says that if one is bound to build a house for another before
such a time and dies, his executors are bound to perform the
contract. *While this was a dictum so far as that case was
concerned, it is valuable as an illustration of how ancient the
principle we are contending for is, and it is also valuable in
that the great Chief Justice goes back yet further for his
authority, citing to support it the Year Books, 31 H. VI., and
15 H. VII.
Lord Mansfield has also given us a clear statement of the
law in delivering the unanimous judgment of the King's
Bench; and in accord with the view contended for. H7ambly
v. Trott, Cowp. 371.
The Barons of the Exchequer have affirmed the dictum of
Lord Coke by deciding that where the testator had contracted
to build a wooden galley and died before any of the work was
done, and his executors had gone on and completed the work,
the executors might sue on the contract and recover; Lord
Lyndhurst putting his decision on the ground of the difference
between contracts personal in their nature and those that are
not. .- arshall v. Broadhurst, 1 Tyrwh. 348; S. C. 1 Cr. &
Jer. 403. See, also, Siboni v. Xirkman, 1 MN.& W. 417; . C.
4 If. & W. 339; W-enworth v. Cock, 10 Ad. & El. 42; Walker

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. Hall, 2 Levinz, 177; Hyde v. Skinner, 2 P. Wims. 196; Berisford v. Woodruff, Croke Jac. 404.
A rule so unanimously declared to be a maxim of the common law has never been doubted by the American' courts.
Petriev. lT orhees, 18 N. J. Eq., 3 0. E. Green, 285; Woods v.
Ridley, 27 Mississippi, 119; Pingle v. -McPherson, 2 Dessausure, 524; WVite v. Commonwealth, 39 Penn. St. 167.
A somewhat lengthy examination of the rule and the cases
was made by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in one case,
and while the view taken of some of the English cases is not
in accord with ours the principles are, on the whole, the
same; and it seems to acknowledge the rule applied in New
York as to assignability. -Dickinsonv. Calahan, 19 Penn. St.
227.
If we admit the rule laid down in New York it does not
seem possible to prevent the case at bar from being brought
within the above decisions and the contract held to be not
personal. But we are not forced to rely upon these cases, as
there have been enough adjudications upon the exact doctrine
of the assignability of contracts to bring this case far within
the limits laid down, and to settle beyond controversy the
question of the assignability of this contract.
The English courts have not in terms announced the doctrine stated in New York; but they have, by applying the
same principles to both personal representatives and assignees,
made it practically the same. The fundamental principle of
personal and non-personal contracts runs through all the
cases. Robson v. Drummond, 2 B. & Ad. 303; Wentworth v.
Cook, supra; British WVaggon Co. v. Lea, 5 Q. B. D. 149.
The American authorities are, if it were possible, much
stronger upon the side of assignability than are the English.
No State has rendered a greater number of decisions, and all
to the same end, on this question than New York; and, in
view of her great commercial power, no State should be listened to with more respect. Devlinv. -ayor, supra; Sears v.
Conover, 3 Keyes, 113; Tyler v. Barrows, 6 Robertson (N. Y.)
104; Harner v. Wood, 23 N. Y. 350. See, also, in the reports
of other States, Taylor v. Palmer,31 California, 240; Parsons

ARKANSAS SIELTING CO. v. BELDEN CO.

385

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

v. WlVoodwcrd, 22 N. J. Law (2 Zabriskie), 196; Philadelphia
v. Lockhardt, 73 Penn. St. 211; Lafferty v. Rutherford, 5
Arkansas, 453; St. Louis v. Clemens, 42 Missouri, 69; Groot
v. Stopy, 41 Vermont, 533.
The reports show us many cases in which contracts have
been held to be personal and not assignable; but the majority
are clearly on the other side of the line. Only two or three
need, any special mention.
Boston Ice Co. v. Potter, 123 Mass. 28, may seem at first
view to be against our position; but on examination it will be
found the other way.. The opinion of Mr. Justice Endicott
clearly states the rule and bases the decision in the case upon
the particular facts disclosed.
Lansdem v. .cCarthy, 45 Missouri, 106, in view of the
facts then existing, might also be cited as against the contract
in the present case. The court admit the general principle
and decide that the contract there sued upon is personal. We
cannot but believe that if the application there can be construed as against the contract at bar, the court erred in its
judgment. The personal nature of the contract was held to
consist in the fact that one party had relied upon the credit
and ability of the other party to pay the price named. Such
a view, if accepted, would do much to put an end to the
assignability of all contracts and choses in action; for all contracts are entered into with the belief that the other party
will perform his part. And the court, too, seems to forget
that the liability of the original parties remains the same, notwithstanding the assignment, and the contracting party may
hold both assignor and assignee.
Dickinson v. Calahan, 19 Penn. St. 227, criticises some of
the English cases cited by us; but, we believe, they are clearly
in the line of all the common law authorities, and they have
been expressly adopted in terms by the Court of Appeals of
New York in Devlin v. Xfayor, 63 N. Y. 8.
This citation of authority will, we think, convince the court
of the correctness of our position as to the assignability of this
contract. Nothing more can be made out of the transaction
than a contract of sale. Billing and Eilers purchased the right
VOL. cxxvI-25

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

to so many tons of ore; the Belden Mining Company purchased the right to so many dollars per ton for a certain number of tons of its ore. Neither party secured any title or right
of property in the taste, skill or genius of the other party, but
simply a title to a definite, tangible, merchantable article that
was readily capable of passing from hand to hand. Every element of the contract partakes of the purely mercantile transaction, and the attempt to place it in' the category of those
contracts that depend upon personal skill, taste or genius,
seems to us an absurdity. No one can doubt the right of Billing and Eilers to sell the ore after they had received it from
the mining company, and for what reason should they be denied the right of selling it before they received it? The ore
itself was certainly capable of being sold, and the right to the
ore would seem to be an equal object of barter.
There is another principle upon which we rely and which
we think is conclusive of the present case. It is maintained
that whether or not this contract is assignable, the defendant
cannot now deny it the quality of assignability. The contract
has been assigned twice, and, as under the first assignment the
defendant made no objection, but dispensed with whatever
rights it had, it is now estopped from denying to the first
assignee the same right that it gave to his assignor. If the
contract-was not assignable in the first place, the implied condition arising from this fact was that upon assignment by
either party the other had a right to treat the contract as at
an end; but once waived the condition was gone and could no
more be insisted upon. This is a principle so old and well
grounded in the common law as to require little or no authority for its support. It has been frequently applied to cases
where the contract in express terms provided against assignment, and declared that if assigned the contract should be at
an end; and surely it will be applied to a case where the same
thing was implied. And it would seem to us that the court
would be readier to apply the principle in doubtful cases, than
where it was expressly provided for. If the contract is claimed
to be personal by one party and not personal by the other, and
the court is to determine the question by reference to the in-

ARKANSAS SMELTING CO. v. BELDEN CO.

387

Opinion of the Court.

tention of the parties, it is surely competent for it to look at
the treatment of the contract by the parties. If the party who
claims that the contract is personal has treated it as not personal, this should be conclusive evidence that at the time it
was entered into it was the intention of the parties that the
contract should not be considered as personal. The present
case, it seems to us, is brought clearly within the spirit and
letter of this ruled law. .3urray v. ifarway, 56 N. Y. 337.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mi& Jusnon Gi.&Y, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
If the assignment to the plaintiff of the contract sued on
was valid, the plaintiff is the real party in interest, and as such
entitled, under the practice in Colorado, to maintain this action
in its own name. Rev. Stat. ยง 914; Colorado Code of Civil
Procedure, ยง 3; Albany & 2ensselaer Co. v. Lunderg, 121
U. S. 451. The vital question in the case, therefore, is whether
the contract between the defendant and Billing and Eilers was
assignable by the latter, under the circumstances stated in the
complaint.
At the present day, no doubt, an agreement to pay money,
or to deliver goods, may be assigned by the person to whom
the money is to be paid or the goods are to be delivered, if
there is nothing in the terms of the contract, whether by
requiring something to be afterwards done by him, or by
some other stipulation, which manifests the intention of the
parties that it shall not be assignable.
But every one has a right to select and determine with
whom he will contract, and cannot have another person thrust
upon him without his consent. In the familiar phrase of Lord
Denman, "You have the right to the benefit you anticipate
from the character, credit and substance of the party with
Humble v. iunter, 12 Q. B. 310, 317;
whom you contract."
Winchester v. Howard, 97 Mass. 303, 305; Boston Ice Co. v.
Potter, 123 Mfass. 28; ing v. Batterson, 13 R. L 117, 120;

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Lamsden v. .McCartky, 45 Missouri, 106. The rule upon this
subject, as applicable to the case at bar, is well expressed in a
recent English treatise. "Rights arising out of contract cannot
be transferred if they are coupled with liabilities, or if they
involve a relation of personal confidence such that the party
whose agreement conferred those rights must have intended
them to be exercised only by him in whom he actually confided." Pollock on Contracts (4th ed.) 425.
The contract here sued on was one by which the defendant
agreed to deliver ten thousand tons of lead ore from its mines
to Billing and Eilers at their smelting works. The ore was to
be delivered at the rate of fifty tons a day, and it was expressly
agreed that it should become the property of Billing and Eilers
as soon as delivered. The price was not fixed by the contract,
or payable upon the delivery of the ore.,
as often as a
hundred tons of ore had been delivered, the ore was to be
assayed by the parties or one of them, and, if they could not
agree, by an umpire; and it was only after all this had been
done, and according to the result of the assay, and the proportions of lead, silver, silica and iron, thereby proved to be in
the ore, that the price was to be ascertained and paid. During
the time that must elapse between the delivery of the ore, and
the ascertainment and payment of the price, the defendant
had no security for its payment, except in the character and
solvency of Billing and Eilers. The defendant, therefore,
could not be compelled to accept the liability of any other
person or corporation as a substitute for the liability of those
with whom it had contracted.
The fact that upon the dissolution of the firm of Billing and
Eilers, and the transfer by Eilers to Billing of this contract,
together with the smelting-works and business of the partnership, the defendant continued to deliver ore to Billing according to the contract, did not oblige the defendant to deliver ore
to a stranger, to whom Billing had undertaken, without the
defendant's consent, to assign the contract. The change in a
partnership by the coming in or the withdrawal of a partner might perhaps be held to be within the contemplation of
the parties originally contracting; but, however that may be,
-But,

ARKANSAS SMELTING CO. v. BELDEN CO.

389

Opinion of the Court.

an assent to such a change in the one party cannot estop the
other to deny the validity of a subsequent assignment of the
whole contract to a stranger. The technical rule of law,
recognized in .urray v. Harway, 56 N. Y. 337, cited for the
plaintiff, by which a lessee's express covenant not to assign has
been held to be wholly determined by one assignment with
the lessor's consent, has no application to this case.
The cause of action set forth in the complaint is not for any
failure to deliver ore to Billing before his assignment to the
plaintiff, (which might perhaps be an assignable chose in
action,) but it is for a refusal to deliver ore to the plaintiff since
this assignment. Performance and readiness to perform by
the plaintiff and its assignors, during the periods for which
they respectively held the contract, is all that is alleged; there
is no allegation that Billing is ready to pay for any ore delivered to the plaintiff. In short, the plaintiff undertakes to
step into the shoes of Billing, and to substitute its liability
for his. The defendant had a perfect right to decline to assent to this, and to refuse to recognize a party, with whom it
had never contracted, as entitled to demand further deliveries
of ore.
The cases cited in the careful brief of the plaintiff's counsel,
as tending to support this action, are distinguishable from the
case at bar, and the principal ones may be classified as follows :
First. Cases of agreements to sell and deliver goods for a
fixed price, payable in cash on delivery, in which the owner
would receive the price at the time of parting with his property, nothing further would remain to be done by the purchaser,
and the rights of the seller could not be affected by the question whether the price was paid by the person with whom he
originally contracted or by an assignee. Sears v. Conover, 3
Keyes, 113, and 4 Abbott (N. Y. App.) 179 ; Tyler v. Barrows,
6 Robertson (ff.Y.) 104.
Second. Cases upon the question how far executors succeed
to rights and liabilities under a contract of their testator.
Harnbly v. Trott, Cowper, 371, 375; Wentworth v. Cock, 10 Ad.
& El. 42, and 2 Per. & Day. 251; Williams on Executors, (7th
ed.,) 1723-1725. Assignment by operation of law, as in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
o

Syllabus.

case of an executor, is quite different from assignment by act
of the party; and the one might be held to have been in the
contemplation of the parties to this contract although the
other was not. A lease, for instance, even if containing an
express covenant against assignment by the lessee, passes to
his executor. And it is by no means clear that an executor
would be bound to perform, or would be entitled to the benefit
of, such a contract as that now in question. Dickinson v.
Calahaan,19 Penn. St. 227.
Third. Cases of assignments by contractors for public works,
in which the contracts, and the statutes under which they
were made, were held to permit all persons to bid for the contracts, and to execute them through third persons. Taylor v.
Paler,
31 California, 240, 247; St. Louis v. Clemens, 42
Missouri, 69; Philadep]da v. Lockhadt, 73 Penn. St. 211;
Devlin v. .ew York, 63 N. Y. 8.
Fourth. Other cases of contracts assigned by the party who
was to do certain work, not by the party who was to pay for
it, and in which the question was whether the work was of
such a nature that it was intended to be performed by the
original contractor only. Robson v. Drummond, 2 B. & Ad.
303; British Waggon Co. v. Lea, 5 Q. B. D. 149; Parsonsv.
IFoodward,2 Zabriskie, 196.
Without considering whether all the cases cited were well
decided, it is sufficient to say that none of them can control
the decision of the present case.
Jiscgment a~ffirmed.

MOSHER v. ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN AND
SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE

CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

EASTERN DISTRICT OF

STATES FOR THE

fISSOURIL

No. 246. Argued and Submitted April 20, 1888. - Decided May 14, 1888.

The S. company, owning a railroad extending from S. to M., and there connecting with the railroad of the H. company from M. to H., sold a
ticket, at a reduced rate of fare, for a passage from S. to H. and return,

