OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

IA

ON v. JUSTICE.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TRE U ITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
No. 1411. Argued April 23, 24,1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.
No mode is provided by the Constitution and laws of the United States by
which a person, unlawfully abducted from one State to another, and
held in the latter State upon process of law for an offence against the
State, can be restored to the State from which he was abducted.
There is no comity between the States by which a person held upon an indictment for a criminal offence in one State can be turned over to the
authorities of another State, although abducted from the latter.
A, being indicted in Kentucky for felony, escaped to West Virginia.
While the governor of West Virginia was considering an application
from the governor of Kentucky for his surrender as a fugitive from justice, he was forcibly abducted to Kentucky, and when there was seized
by the Kentucky authorities under legal process, and put in jail and held
to answer the indictment. Held, that he was not entitled to be discharged from custody under a writ of habeas corpus from the Circuit
Court of the United States.

THE court stated the case as follows:
On the 9th of February, 1888, the governor of West Virginia, on behalf of that State, presented to the District Court
of the United States for the District of Kentucky a petition,
representing that during the month of September, 1887, a
requisition was made upon him as governor aforesaid, by the
governor of Kentucky, for Plyant Mahon, alleged to have
committed murder in the latter State, and to have fled from
its justice, and to be then at large in West Virginia; that
pending correspondence between the two governors, and the
consideration of legal questions growing out of the requisition, and during the month of December, 1887, or January,
1888, the said Plyant Mahon, while residing in West Virginia,
was, in violation of her laws, and of the Constitution and
laws of the United States, and without warrant or other legal
process, arrested by a body of armed men from Kentucky, and
by force and against his will, conveyed out of the State of

MAHON v. JUSTICE.
Statement of the Case.

West Virginia into the county of Pike, in the State of Kentucky, and there confined in the common jail of the county,
where he has been ever since, and is deprived of his liberty by
the keeper thereof.
The petitioner further represented that on the 1st of February, 1888, he as governor of West Virginia and o4 her
behalf, made a requisition upon the governor of Kentucky,
that Plyant Mahon be released from confinement, set at large,
and returned in safety to the State of West Virginia; and
that the demand was, on the 4th of that month, refused on
the ground, among others, that the questions involved were
judicial and not executive. The petitioner, therefore, in alleged vindication of the rights of the State of West Virginia,
and of every citizen thereof, and especially of the said Plyant
Mahon thus confined and deprived of his liberty, to the end
that due process of law secured by both the Constitution of
the United States and the constitution of the State of West
Virginia, and the laws made in pursuance thereof, might be
respected and enforced, prayed that the writ of habeas corpu.w
be granted, directed to the keeper of the jail, commanding
him to produce the body of said Plyant Mahon, together with
the cause of his detention, before the judge of the court at
such time and place as might be designated, and that judgment be rendered that said Plyant Mahon be discharged from
said confinement and custody, and be safely returned within
the jurisdiction of the State of West Virginia. At the same
time another petition was presented to the court by one John
A. Sheppard, representing that he was a citizen of West Virginia, and setting forth substantially the facts contained in the
petition of the governor, and praying for a like writ of habeas
co 2us. Subsequently the name of Plyant Mahon was substituted for that of John A. Sheppard, and the proceedings on
the petition were conducted in his name.
The court ordered the writ to issue, directed to the jailor of
Pike County, requiring him to produce the body of Mahon
before the District Court of the United States in the city of
Louisville on the 20th of the month, and there to abide such
order as might be made in the premises. The jailor of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

county, Abner Justice, made a return to the writ substantially
as follows: That he held Plyant Mahon in custody and confined in the jail of Pike County by virtue of and in obedience
to three writs issued by the clerk of the Criminal Court of the
county under its order, each for the arrest of Mahon to answer an indictment pending against him and others for the
crime of wilful murder, alleged to have been committed in
that county, a crime for the trial of which that court had full
jurisdiction, and commanding the officer arresting Mahon to
deliver him to the jailor of the county; copies of which writs
were annexed to the return; that under the writ of habeas
corpts he was proceeding to the city of Louisville to produce
the body of Mahon before the United States District Court
there, when he was met on his way by the United States
Marshal of the District of Kentucky, who, by virtue of the
order of the District Court, took Plyant Mahon into his custody. -He further returned that three indictments against
Mahon and others for wilful murder were found by the grand
jury of Pike County, Kentucky, and returned into the Circuit
Court of said county at its September term, 1882, at which
time that court had jurisdiction of the crime charged; that,
by order of the court, made at each subsequent term, writs
were issued by the clerk thereof for the arrest of Plyant
Mahon to answer the indictments, until the Criminal Court
of the county was established by act of the General Assembly
of Kentucky in 1884-, by which the jurisdiction previously
vested in the Oircuit Court was transferred to and vested in
said Criminal Court; that, by orders of this latter court from
term to termn, writs were issued by the clerk thereof for the
arrest of Mahon to answer the indictments; but none of them
were executed upon him until January 12, 1888, when he was
arrested in Pike County by the sheriff thereof, and delivered
by him to the respondent, jailor of said county, in obedience
to the writs which were issued, and under the command and
authority of which he was held by the respondent as jailor in
custody in the jail of said county, when the writ of habeas
corptus was served upon him
The jailor subsequently, by leave of the court, made a fur-

MAHON v. JUSTICE.
Statement of the Case.

ther return, in which he stated that a requisition was made by
the governor of Kentucky upon the governor of West Virginia
for the arrest and rendition to Kentucky of said Plyant Mahon as alleged in the governor's petition; that it was accompanied by a copy of the indictments referred to, certified by
the governor of Kentucky to be authentic; that at the same
time the governor appointed one Frank Phillips as the agent
of the State to receive and bring to the State of Kentucky the
said Mahon, as provided by law in such cases; that on the
30th of September, 1887, the governor of West Virginia returned said requisition to the governor of Kentucky, informing
him that an affidavit, as required by the statute of West Virginia, should accompany the requisition before the same could
be complied with; that thereafter the governor of Kentucky
returned the requisition to the governor of West Virginia, accompanied by the affidavit required; that afterwards, about
the 12th of January, 1888, Frank Phillips and others, with
force and arms, violently seized the said Mahon in the State
of West Virginia and brought him against his will into the
county of Pike in the State of Kentucky, where the writs
mentioned in the correspondent's original return were executed upon him by the sheriff of Pike County; that at that
time no warrant for the arrest of Mahon had been issued or
ordered to be issued by the governor of West Virginia in compliance with said requisition; and afterwards, on the 30th of
January, 1888, he informed the governor of Kentucky that
he declined to issue his warrant for the arrest of Plyant Mahon, in compliance with the requisition made upon him, because he had become satisfied, upon investigation of the facts,
that Mahon was not guilty of the crime charged against him in
the indictments; and that subsequently, on the 1st of February,
1888, the governor of West Virginia made upon the governor of
Kentucky a demand for the release of Mahon from the jail of
the county of Pike and his safe conduct back into West Virginia, with which demand the governor of Kentucky declined
to comply, on the ground that Mahon was in the custody of
the judicial department of the Commonwealth, and that the
question of his release upon the grounds alleged in the demand

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

was one which the courts alone could determine, and that the
adjudication thereof was not one within the purview of his
powers and duties as governor.

The facts thus detailed were

established before the court on the hearing upon the writ and
are contained in its findings.
On the 3d of March the court denied the motion for the dis,
charge of Plyant Mabon, and ordered the marshal to return
him to the jailor of Pike County. From this order an appeal
was taken to the Circuit Court of the United States and there
affirmed. To review the latter order the case is brought
here
3.'. Eustace Gibson for appellant.
.-.

J. Pr'octor -Knottfor appellee.

MR. JusTioe FIELD,

after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The govei'nor of West Virginia, in his application on behalf
of the State for the writ of habeas corpus to obtain the dis-.
charge of Mahon and his return to that State, proceeded upon,
the theory that it was the duty of the United States to secure
the inviolability of the territory of the State from the lawless
invasion of persons from other States, and when parties had
been forcibly taken from her territory and jurisdiction t6 afford the means of compelling their return; and that this obligation could be enforced by means of the writ of habeas corpus,
as the court in discharging the party abducted could also direct
his return to the State from which he was taken, or his delivery to persons who would see that its order in that respect was
carried out.
If the States of the Union were possessed of an absolute
sovereignty, instead of a limited one, they could demand of
each other reparation for an unlawful invasion of their territory and the surrender of parties abducted, and of parties committing the offence, and in case of refusal to comply with the
demand, could resort to reprisals, or take any other measures
they might deem necessary as redress for the past and security

IIAHON v. JUSTICE.
Opinion of the Court.

for the future. But the States of the Union are not absolutely
sovereign. Their sovereignty is qualified and limited by the
conditions of the Federal Constitution. They cannot declare
war or authorize reprisals on other States. Their ability to
prevent the forcible abduction of persons from their territory
consists solely in their power to punish all violations of their
criminal laws committed within it, whether by their own citizens or by citizens of other States..
If such violators have escaped from the jurisdiction of the
State invaded, their surrender can be secured upon proper demand on the executive of the State to which they have fled.
The surrender of the fugitives in such cases to the State whose
laws have been violated, is the only aid provided by the laws
of the United States for the punishment of depredations and
violence committed in one State by intruders and lawless
bands from another State. The offences committed by such
parties are against the State; and the laws of the United
States merely provide the means by which their presence can
be secured in case they have fled from its justice. No mode is
provided by which a person unlawfully abducted from one
State to another can be restored to the State from which he
was taken, if held upon any process of law for offences against
the State to which he has been carried. If not thus held he
can, like any other person wrongfully deprived of his liberty,
obtain his release on ]habeas corj.ps. Whether Congress might
not provide for the compulsory restoration to the State of parties wrongfully abducted from its territory upon application
of the parties, or of the State, and whether such provision
would not greatly tend to the public peace along the borders
of the several States, are not matters for present consideration.
It is sufficient now that no means for such redress through the
courts of the United States have as yet been provided.
The abduction of Mahon by Phillips and his aids was made,
as appears from the return of the respondent to the writ, and
from the findings of the court below, without any warTant or
authority from the governor of West Virginia. It is true that
Phillips was appointed by the governor of Kentucky as agent
of the State to receive Mahon upon his surrender on the requi'.-

VOL. cxxvn-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

sition; but no surrender having been made, the arrest of
Mahon and his abduction from the State were lawless and
indefensible acts, for which Phillips and his aids may justly
be punished under the laws of West Virginia. The process
emanating from the governor of Kentucky furnished no ground
for charging any complicity on the part of that State in the
wrong done to the State of West Virginia.
It is true, also, that thp accused had the right while in
West Virginia of insisting that he should not be surrendered
to the governor of Kentucky by the governor of West Virginia, except in pursuance of the acts of Congress, and that he
was entitled to release from any arrest in that State noi made
in accordance with them; but having been subsequently arrested in Kentucky under the writs issued on the indictments
against him, the question is not as to the validity of the proceeding in West Virginia, but as to the legality of his detention in Kentucky. There is no comity between the States by
which a person held upon an indictment for a criminal offence
in one State can be turned over to the authorities of another,
though abducted fron! the latter. If there were any such
comity, its enforcement would not be a matter within the
jurisdiction of the courts of the United States. By comity
nothing more is meant than that courtesy on the part of one
State, by which within her territory the laws of another State
are recognized and enforced, or another State is assisted in the
execution of her laws. From its nature the courts of the
United States cannot compel its exercise when it is refused;
it is admissible only upon the consent of the State, and when
consistent with her own interests and policy. Bank of Augusta v. Earke, 13 Pet. 519, 589; Story's Conflict of Law, ยง 30.
The only question, therefore, presented for our determination is whether a person indicted for a felony in one State,
forcibly abducted from another State and brought to the
State where he was indicted by parties acting without warrant or authority of law, is entitled under the Constitution or
laws of the United States to release from detention under the
indictment by reason of such forcible and unlawful abduction.
Section 753 of the Revised Statutes declares that "the writ

MAHON v. JUSTICE.
Opinion of the Court.

of kaleas corus shall in no case extend to a prisoner in jail,
unless where he is in custody under or by color of the authority of the United States, or is committed for trial before some
court thereof; or is in cuftody for an act done or omitted in
pursuance of a law of the United States, or of an order, process, or decree of a court or judge thereof; or is in custody in
violation of the Constitution or of a law or treaty of the
United States."
To bring the present case within the terms of this section it
is contended that the detention of the appellant is in violation
of the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution, that "no State shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
United States, nor shall any State deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law;" and also
in violation of the clause of the Constitution providing for the
extradition of fugitives of justice from one State to another,
and the laws made for its execution.
As to the Fourteenth Amendment, it is difficult to perceive
in what way it bears upon the subject. Assuming, what is not
conceded, that the fugitive has a right of asylum in West Virginia, the State of Kentucky has passed no law which infringes
upon that right or upon any right or privilege or immunity
which the accused can claim under the Constitution of the
United States. The law of that State which is enforced is a
law for the punishment of the crime of murder, and she has
merely sought to enforce it by her officers under process executed within her territory. She did not authorize the unlawful abduction of the prisoner from West Virginia.
As to the removal from the State of the fugitive from justice in a way other than that which is provided by the second
section of the fourth article of the Constitution, which declares
that "a person charged in any State with treason, felony, or
other crime, who shall flee from justice, and be found in another State, shall, on demand of the executive authority of
the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed
to the State having jurisdiction of the crime," and the laws
passed by Congress to carry the same into effect -it
is not

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of -the Court.

perceived how that fact can affect his detention upon a warrant for the commission of a crime within the State to which
he is carried. The jurisdiction of the court in which the
indictment is found is not impaired by the manner in which
the accused is brought before it. There are many adjudications to this purport cited by counsel on the argument, to
some of which we will refer.
The first of these is that of Ex parte Susannah Scott, 9 B. &
C. 446. There it appeared that the prisoner, who had been
indicted in the King's Bench for perjury, and for whose alvprehension a warrant had been issued, was arrested by the
officer, to whom the warrant was specially directed, at Brussels, in Belgium, and conveyed to England. A rule nisi was
then obtained from the court for a writ of habeas carpus, and
the question of her right to be released because of her illegal
arrest in a foreign jurisdiction was argued before Lord Tenterden. He held that where a party charged with a crime was
found in the country, it was the dity of the court to take care
that he should be amenable to justice, and it could not consider the circumstances under which he was brought there,
and that if the act complained of was done against the law of
the foreign country, it was for that country to vindicate its
own law, and the rule was discharged.
The next case is that of The State v. Smith, which
was very fully and elaborately considered by the Chancellor and the Court of Appeals of South Carolina. 1 Bailey
(S. C.), 283.
Though this case did not arise upon the
forcible arrest in another jurisdiction of the offender to
answer an indictment, but to answer to a judgment, the
conditional release from which he had disregarded, the
principle involved was the same. Smith had been convicted of stealing a slave and sentenced to death. He was
pardoned on condition that he would undergo confinement
during a designated period, and within fifteen days afterwards
leave the State and, never return. The pardon was accepted,
and the prisoner remained in confinement for the time prescribed, and within fifteen days afterwards removed to North
Carolina, and remained there some years, when he returned to

MfAHON v. JUSTICE.

709

Opinion of the Court.

South Carolina. The governor of the latter State then issued
a proclamation stating that the prisoner was in the State in
violation of the condition of his pard6n, and offering a reward
for his arrest. Smith afterwards returned to North Carolina,
where he was forcibly seized by parties from South Carolina,
without warrant or authority from any officer or tribunal of
either State, except the proclamation of the governor of South
Carolina, and was brought into the latter State and lodged in
jail. He sued out a writ of habeas corpu., and was brought
before the Chancellor of the State, and his discharge was moved
on the ground that his arrest in North Carolina was illegal,
and his detention equally so. The motion was refused and the
prisoner remanded. The Chancellor gave great consideration
to the case, and in the following extract from his opinion furnishes an answer to the principal objections urged in the case
at bar to the detention of the appellant: "The prisoner," said
the Chancellor, " is charged with a felonious violation of the
laws of this State: it is answered, that other persons have been
guilty, in relation to him, of an outrageous violation of the
laws of another State, and therefore he ought to be discharged:
I perceive no connection between the premises and the inference. The chief argument is drawn from supposed consequences, which are likely to follow, by bringing our government
into collision with others. This is less to be apprehended
among the States of the Union, where the Federal Constitution
makes provision for a satisfaction of the violated jurisdiction.
But suppose the case of a foreign State. There is no offence
in trying, and, if he be guilty, convicting the subject of a foreign government, who has been guilty of a violation of our
laws, within our jurisdiction. Or, if he had made his escape
from our jurisdiction, and by any accident were thrown within
it again; if he were shipwrecked on our coast, or fraudulently
induced to land, by a representation that it was a different
territory, with a view to his being given up to prosecution;
there would seem to be no reason for exempting him from
responsibility to our laws. In the case we are considering, the
prisoner is found in our jurisdiction, in consequence of a lawless
act of violence exercised upon him by individuals. The true

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

cause of offence to the foreign government is the lawless violation of its territory
But a similar violation of a foreign
jurisdiction might be made for other purposes; and it would
not be in the power of our tribunals to afford satisfaction. An
individual might be kidnapped and brought within our territory
for the purpose of extorting money from him, or murdering
him. It would not seem to be an appropriate satisfaction to
the injured government to exempt a person justly liable to
punishment under our laws; where we have no means of giving
up to punishment those who have violated its laws. But there
is no difficulty among the States of the Union. Upon demand
by the State of North Carolina, those who have violated its
laws will be given up to punishment." 1 Bailey (S. C.), 292.
Subsequently the prisoner was brought before the Presiding
*Judge of the Court of Appeals of the State to answer to a
rule to show cause why his original sentence should not be
executed and a date fixed for his execution. He showed for
cause that he bad received an executive pardon, and had performed all the conditions annexed to it, except the one which
prohibited his return to the State, which, it was submitted,
was illegal and void. And for further cause, he showed, that
he had been illegally arrested in North Carolina and brought
within the jurisdiction of this State against his own consent,
and it was, therefore, insisted that he was not amenable to the
courts of South Carolina, but was entitled to be'sent back to
North Carolina, or to be discharged, and sufficient time
allowed him to return thither. The judge held the grounds
to be insufficient, and the defendant then moved the court to
reverse his decision on substantially the same grounds, and,
among them, that he was entitled to be discharged in consequence of having been illegally arrested in North Carolina
and brought into the State. Upon this the court said: "The
pursuit of the prisoner into North Carolina and his arrest
there was certainly a violation of the sovereignty ofi that
State, and was an act which cannot be commended. But that
was not the act of the State, but of a few of its citizens, for
which the Constitution of the United States has provided a
reparation. It gives the governor of that State the right to

MAHON v. JUSTICE.
Opinion of the Court.

demand them of the governor of this, and imposes on the
latter the obligation to surrender them; but until it is refused
there can be no cause of complaint." And the motion was
refused.
In the case of The State v. Brewster, 7 Vt. 118, the same
doctrine was announced by the Supreme Court of Vermont.
There it appeared that the prisoner charged with crime had
escaped to Canada, and was brought back against his will,
and without the consent of the authorities of that Province,
and he sought to plead his illegal capture and forcible return
in bar of the indictment; but his application was refused, the
court observing that the escape of the prisoner into Canada
did not purge the offence, nor oust the jurisdiction of the
court, and he being within its jurisdiction it was not for it to
inquire by what means or in what manner he was brought
within the reach of justice. Said the court: "If there were
anything improper in the transaction it was not that the prisoner was entitled to protection on his own account. The illegality, if any, consists in a violation of the sovereignty of an
independent nation. If that nation complain it is a matter
which concerns the political relations of the two countries,
and in that aspect is a subject not within the constitutional
powers of this court." pp. 121, 122.
In State v. Ross, 21 Iowa, 467, the Supreme Court of Iowa
declared the same doctrine, and stated the distinction between
civil and criminal cases where the party is by fraud or violence
brought within the jurisdiction of the court. The defendants
were charged with larceny, and were arrested in Missouri
and brought by force and against their will, by parties acting
without authority, either of a requisition from the governor or
otherwise, to Iowa, where an indictment against them had
been found. In Iowa they were rearrested, and turned over
to the civil authorities for detention and trial. It was contended that their arrest was in violation of law; that they
were brought within the jurisdiction of the State by fraud and
violence; that comity to a sister State and a just appreciation
of the rights of the citizen, and a due regard to the integrity
of the law, demanded that the court should under such cir-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

cumstances refuse its aid; and that there could be no rightful
exercise of jurisdiction over the parties thus arrested. But
the court answered that "the liability of the parties arresting
them [the defendants] without legal warrant, for false imprisonment or otherwise, and their violation of the penal statutes
of Missouri, may be ever so clear, and yet the prisoners not be
entitled to their discharge. The offence being committed in
Iowa, it was punishable here, and an indictment could have
been found without reference to the arrest. There is no fair
analogy between civil and criminal cases in this respect. In
the one, (civil,) the party invoking the aid of the court is guilty
of fraud or violence in bringing the defendant or his property
within the jurisdiction of the court. In the other, (criminal,)
the people, the State, is guilty of no wrong. The officers of
the law take the requisite process, find the prisoners charged
within the jurisdiction, and. this, too, without force, wrong,
fraud, or violence on the part of any agent of the State or
officer thereof. And it can make no difference whether the
illegal arrest was made in another State or another government."
Other cases might be cited from the state courts holding
similar views. There is indeed an entire concurrence of opinion as to the ground upon which a release of the appellant in
the present case is asked, namely, that his forcible abduction
from another State, and conveyance within the jurisdiction of
the court holding him, is no objection to his detention and
trial for the offence charged. They all proceed upon the
obvious ground that the offender against the law of the State
is not relieved from liability because of personal injuries received from private parties, or because of indignities committed against another State. It would indeed be a strange
conclusion, if a party charged with a criminal offence could be
excused from answering to the government whose laws he had
violated because other parties had done violence to him, and
also committed an offence against the laws of another State.
The case of Ker v. Tllinois, decided by thig court, 119 U. S.
437, has a direct bearing upon the question presented hero,
whether a forcible and illegal -capture in another State is in

MAHON v. JUSTICE.
Opinion of the Court.

violation of any rights secured by the Constitution and laws
of the United States. In that case it appeared that Ker was
indicted in Cook County, Illinois, for embezzlement and larceny. He fled the country and went to Peru. Proceedings*
were instituted for his extradition under the treaty betweeti
that country and the United States, and application was made
by our government for his surrender, and a warrant was
issued by the President, directed to one Julian, as messenger,
to receive him from the ,authorities of Peru, upon his surrender, and to bring him to the United States. Julian having
the necessary papers went to Peru, but, without presenting*
them to any officer of the Peruvian Government, or making
any demand on that government for the surrender of IKer,
forcibly arrested him,-placed him on board the United States
vessel Essex, then lying in the harbor of Callao, kept him a
close prisoner until the arrival of that vessel at Honolulu, in
the Hawaiian Islands, where, after some detention, he was
conveyed in the same forcible mauner on board another vessel,
in which he was carried a prisoner to San Francisco, California.
Before his arrival in that State the governor of Illinois had
made a requisition on the governor of California, under the
laws of the United States, for his delivery as a fugitive from
justice. The governor of California accordingly made an
order for his surrender to a person appointed by the governor
of Illinois to receive him and take him to the latter State.
On his arrival at San Francisco he was immediately placed
in the custody of this agent, who took him to Cook County,
where the process of the Criminal Court was served upon him;
and he was held to answer the indictment. He then sued out
a writ of habeas corpus before the Circuit Court of the State,
contending that his arrest and deportation from Peru was a
violation of the treaty between that government and ours, and
that consequently his subsequent detention under the process
of the state court was unlawful. The Circuit Court remanded
him to jail, holding that whatever illegality might have attended his arrest it could not affect the jurisdiction of the
court, or release him from liability to the State whose laws he
had violated. He then applied to the Circuit Court of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

United States for a writ of habeas corms, asking his release
upon the same ground; but the court refused it, holding that
it was not competent to look into the circumstances under
which the capture and the transfer of the prisoner from Peru
to the United States were made, nor to free .him from the
consequences of the lawful process which had been served
upon him for the offence which he was charged with having
committed in the State of Illinois. When arraigned on the
indictment in the trial court he raised similar questions on a
plea in abatement, which was held bad on demurrer; and
after conviction he carried the case on a writ of error to the
Supreme Court of the State, where the same conclusion was
reached, and the judgment against him was affirmed. He
then brought the case to this court, where it was contended
that under the treaty of extradition with Peru, he had acquired
by his residence in that country a right of asylum-a right
to be free from molestation for the crime committed in Illinois
-a right that he should be forcibly removed from Peru to
the State of Illinois only in accordance with the provisions
of the treaty; at.d that this right was one which he could
assert in the courts of the United States. But the court
answered that there was no language in the treaty on the
subject of extradition which said in terms that a party fleeing
from the United States to escape punishment for a crime
became thereby entitled to an asylum in the country to which
he had fled; that it could not be doubted that the government
of Peru might, of its own accord, without any demand from
the United States, have surrendered Ker to an agent of Illinois,
and that such surrender would have been valid within IPeru;
that it could not, therefore, be claimed, either by the terms
of the treaty or by implication, that there was given to a
fugitive from justice in one of those countries any right to
remain and reside in the other; and that if the right of asylum
meant anything it meant that.
So in this case, it is contended that, because under the Constitution and laws of the United States a fugitive from justice
from one State to another can be surrendered to the State
where the crime was committed, upon proper proceedings

MATAHON v. JUSTICE.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

taken, he has the right of asylum in the State to which he has
fled, unless removed in conformity with such proceedings,
and that this right can be enforced in the courts of the United
States. But the plain answer to this contention is, that the
laws of the United States do not recognize any such right of
asylum, as is here claimed, on the part of a fugitive from justice in any State to which he has fled; nor have they, as
already stated, made any provision for the return of parties
who, by violence and without lawful authority, have been
abducted from a State. There is, therefore, no authority in
the courts of the United States to act upon any such alleged
right. In Ker v. #llinois, the court said that the question of
how far the forcible seizure of the defendant in another country, and his conveyance by violence, force, or fraud to this
country could be made available to resist trial in the state
court for the offence charged upon him, was one which it did
not feel called upon to decide, for in that transaction it did
not see that the Constitution, or laws, or treaties of the
United States guaranteed to him any protection. So in this
case we say that, whatever effect may be 'given by the state
court to the illegal mode in which the defendant was brought
from another State, no right, secured under the Constitution
or laws of the United States, was violated by his arrest in
Kentucky, and imprisonment there, upon the indictments
found against him for murder in that State.
It follows that
The judgment of the court below m'uet be iffirmed.

]

Mm. JUSTICE BRA.DLEY, with whom concurred MYix. JusTIcE
.uAA, dissenting.

I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. In
my opinion the writ of habeas co2Tus was properly issued,
and the prisoner, Mahon, should have been discharged and
permitted to return to West Virginia. He was kidnapped
and carried into Kentucky in plain violation of the Constitution of the United States, and is detained there in continued
violation thereof. It is true, he is charged with having com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

mitted a crime in Kentucky. But the Constitution provides a
peaceable remedy for procuring the surrender of persons
charged with crime and fleeing into another State. This
provision of the Constitution has two objects: the procuring
possession of the offender, and the prevention of irritation
between the States, which might arise from giving asylum to
each other's criminals, and from violently invading each other's
territory to capture them. It clearly implies that there shall
be no resort to force for this purpose. The Constitution has
abrogated, and the States have surrendered, all right to obtain
redress from each other by force. The Constitution was made
to "establish justice" and "insure domestic tranquillity;"
and to attain this end as between the States themselves, the
judicial power was extended "to controversies between two or
more States," and they were enjoined to deliver up to each
other fugitives from justice when demanded, and even fugitives from service. This manifest care to provide peaceable
means of redress between them is utterly irreconcilable with
any right to redress themselves by force and violence; and, of
course, what is unconstitutional for the States is unconstitutional for their citizens. It is undoubtedly true that occasional
instances of unlawful abduction of a criminal from one State to
another for trial, have been winked at; and it has been held
to be no defence for the prisoner on his trial. Such precedents are founded on those which have arisen where a criminal has been seized in one country and forcibly taken to another for trial, in the absence of any international treaty of
extradition. It is obvious that such cases stand on a very
different ground. It is there a question between independent
nations bound by no ties of mutual obligation on the subject,
and at liberty to adopt such means of redress and retaliation
as they please. But where an extradition treaty does exist,
and a criminal has been delivered up under it, he cannot, without violating the treaty, be tried for any other crime but that
for which he was delivered up. Unitd Statm v. _auscher,
119 U. S.407. This shows that, even when rightfully obtained
for one offence, he cannot be prosecuted for another. It is
true that in the same volume is found the case of iEer v. liii-

MIAHON v. JUSTICE.

717

Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

nois, 119 U. S. 437, in which it was held not to be a good plea to
an indictment, that the prisoner was kidnapped from Peru, with
which country we had an extradition treaty. But this was
because, as before said, the prisoner himself cannot set up the
mode of his capture by way of defence, if the State from which
he was abducted makes no complaint. Peru made none.
But this is not such a case. The State from wlich Mahon
was abducted has interposed, not only by a formal demand for
his restoration, but by suing out a habeas corpus. Perhaps the
writ might have been sued out of this court, as the controversy had come to be a controversy between the States, Kentucky having availed herself of the fruits of the unlawful
abduction by retaining the victim, and refusing to restore him
on demand. The State of West Virginia, however, has elected,
as she might do, to have the writ directed only to the person
holding Mahon in custody. I take this to be a legal and apt
remedy to settle the case by peaceable judicial means.
A requisition would not apply. That is provided for the
extradition of fugitives from justice. It would apply for the
delivery up of the kidnappers, but not for the restoration of
their victim. It is a special constitutional remedy, addressed
by the executive of one State to the executive of another, imposing a constitutional duty of extradition when properly
made in a proper case. But the present case is a different
one. It is not the surrender of a fugitive from justice which
is sought, but the surrender of a citizen unconstitutionally
abducted and held in custody. There must be some remedy
for such a wrong. It cannot be that the States, in surrendering their right of obtaining redress by military force and
reprisals, have no remedy whatever. It was suggested by
counsel that the State of West Virginia might sue the State of
Kentucky for damages. This suggestion could not have been
seriously made. No; the remedy adopted was the proper one.
Hlabeas corffas is not only the proper legal remedy, but a most
salutary one. It is calculated to allay strife and irritation
between the States by securing a judicial and peaceful decision
of the controversy.
But it is contended that, although it may be within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Bradley, Harlan, JJ.

spirit of the Constitution, it is not within its letter, and special
legislation is necessary to enable the courts or judges to issue
a habeas corpus. I do not think that the conclusion follows.
Congress, from the beginning, clothed the courts and judges
of the United States with the general power to issue writs of
habeas cor.us; with the restriction, at first, not to extend to
prisoners in jail, unless in custody under authority of the
United States, etc. But in 1833, 18412, and 1867 this restriction was modified, and by the last act removed altogether "in
all cases where any person may be restrained of his or her
liberty, in violation of the Constitution, or of any treaty or
law of the United States." 14 Stat. 385. Rev. Stat. ยง 753.
And see Ex poprt Pars,93 U. S. 18, 22, where the reference
to 14 Stat. should be p. 385 instead of p. 44. This is legislation enough. A citizen of West Virginia is deprived of his
liberty contrary to the Constitution and laws of the United
States. The exigency has arisen in which the law applies;
and if the party himself is precluded from setting up his
wrongful abduction as a defence to an indictment, and perhaps precluded from demanding his discharge on habeas carpus, his State has intervened for his protection, and has sued
out the writ. But I think that his own application for the
writ is well grounded. He is not in the situation of a criminal
who has been abducted from a State which takes no interest
in his case. His restoration has been demanded by his State;
and habeas corpus may be issued either at his own instance or
that of the State.
This court does not hesitate, on the plea of insufficient legislation, to issue the writ of habeas co2pus as an appellate
remedy wherever a citizen is deprived of his liberty in violation of the Constitution or laws of the United States, and is
refused a discharge by other tribunals, and has no other
remedy. See Ew _parte Royall, 112 U. S. 181; Eo parte
Royall, 117 U. S. 241.
I think that the judgment of the Circuit Court should be
reversed, and the prisoner restored to his liberty with permission to return to the State of West Virginia. I am authorized
to say that itf.JUSTIcE HARaLA concurs in this opinion.

