SEWALL v. HAYTMAKER.
Opinion of the Court.
C.

SE WALL v. RAYMAXER.
ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
No. 244.

Argued April 20, 188.-Decided May 14, 1888.

Under the statutes of Virginia, which were in force in September, 1837,
and equally under the statutes of Ohio, which were in force at that time,
a deed by husband and wife conveying land of the wife, was inoperative
to pass her title, unless the husband, she having duly acknowledged the
deed, signified his assent to the conveyance in her lifetime by an acknowledgment in the form prescribed by law.

EJECTMENT. Judgment for defendant. Plaintiffs sued out
this writ of error. The case is stated in the opinion of the
court.

Mr1&.

. B. latthews for plaintiffs in error.

No appearance for defendant in error.
Mm. JUSTICE HA].LAx

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action to recover forty-two undivided one-hundredth parts of a tract of land, in the county of Fayette, State
of Ohio. The answer denied that the plaintiffs, or either of
them, have any estate, title, or interest in or to this land, or
to any part thereof. The defendants, also, pleaded that no
cause of action accrued to the plaintiffs or to either of them
against him within twenty. years prior to the filing of the
petition.
The bill of exceptions shows that the plaintiffs in error,
after offering in evidence a patent of the United States covering the land in controversy, made proof tending to establish
the following facts: The patentee, William Green 'Munford,
died intestate, leaving as his only heirs, Robert Munford, John
Munford, Stanhope Munford, William Green Munford, Elizabeth Munford, and Mary Munford. Three of these heirsStanhope, William Green, and Elizabeth - died early in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

present century, unmarried, childless, and intestate; the other
three inherited the patented lands in equal shares. Margaret
Ann Munford, the only heir of Robert Munford, who also died
intestate, was born in the year 1800, and in 1819 intermarried
with John Sinclair. She died intestate September 13, 1837,
having inherited one-third of the property in controversy.
Her husband died August 3, 1875. The original plaintiffs are
her only heirs, and J. ]airiston Sewall is the grantee of some
of the original plaintiffs for whom he was substituted as a
party.
This was the case made by the plaintiffs in error who were
plaintiffs below.
The defendant, to maintain the issues on his part, offered in
evidence a certain deed, purporting to be a conveyance to one
Cary S. Jones of the interest of John Sinclair and Margaret
Ann Sinclair, his wife, in this land.
That deed is dated September 10, 1837 -three days before
the death of Mrs. Sinclair - and purports to be signed by the
grantors- Sinclair and wife, of Gloucester County, Virginia
-and
to have been "signed, sealed and delivered in presence
of Wi. Robins, Richard S. Jones, and Pet. R. Nelson." Attached to it are the following certificates:
"GLOUcESTER

COUNrr, tO Wit:

"We, William Robins and Peyton R. Nelson, justices of the
peace in the county aforesaid, in the State of Virginia, do
hereby certify that Margaret Ann Sinclair, the wife of John
Sinclair, parties to a certain deed bearing date on the 10th of
September, 1837, and hereunto annexed, personally appeared
before us, in our county aforesaid, and, being examined by us
privily and apart from her husband, and having the deed
aforesaid fully explained to her, she, the said Margaret Ann
Sinclair, acknowledged the same to be her voluntary act and
deed, and declared that she had willingly signed, sealed, and
delivered the same, and that she wished not to retract it.
"Given under our hands and seals this 10th day of Septem.
ber, 1837.

"WM. ROBiNS.
"P.T.

R. NELSON.

[SEAL.]
[sEAn.]

SEWALL v. HAYMAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

to wit:
"We, Win. Robins -Thomas Smith, justices of the peace
in the county and State aforesaid, do hereby certify that John
Sinclair, a party to a certain deed bearing date the 10th day
of September, 1831, and hereunto annexed, personally appeared before us in our own county aforesaid, and acknowledged the same to be his act and deed, and desired us to certify the said acknowledgment to the clerk of the counties of
-,
in the State of Ohio, in order that the said deed may be
recorded.
"Given under our hands and seals this 14th of May, 1840.
"STATE OF VIRGNTA, Gloucester County,

"Wm. Romns.
"TomAs SmiTH.

[SEAT.]
[sEAL.]

Gloucester County, to wit:
"I, John R. Cary, clerk of the court of the county aforesaid,
in the State aforesaid, do hereby certify that Wm.Robins and
Thomas Smith and Peyton R. Nelson, Esquires, whose names
and seals are affixed to the within certificates of acknowledgments, were, at the time of subscribing the same, justices of
the peace in and for the county aforesaid, duly commissioned
and qualified, and that due faith and credit may and ought to
be given to all their acts as such.
"In testimony whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name
as clerk aforesaid and affixed the seal of the said county this
14th day of May, 1840, in the 64th year of the Commonwealth.
" STATE OF VnrGINIA,

,,[1.. s.]

JOHN R. CARY, 6. G.

.-

OF VMGINMA, Gloucester County, to wit:
"I, Wim. Robins, presiding justice of the court of the county
aforesaid, do hereby certify that John R. Cary, who has given
the certificate below, is clerk of the said court, and that his
attestation is in due form.
"Given under my hand this 14th day of May, 1840.
"STATE

"WM.

ROBiNs, Sen'r.

[SEAL]"

The plaintiffs objected to the admission of the conveyance in
evidence, upon the ground that, as it was not acknowledged or
VOL. cxxvn-46

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion ot the Court.

proven by John Sinclair until after the death of his wife, it
was not sufficient and valid, as a conveyance of the latter's
interest, either under the laws of Virginia., where it was executed, or under the laws of Ohio, where the land is situated.
This objection was overruled and the deed admitted in evi-

dence, to which the plaintiffs excepted. The defendant offered
in evidence deeds conveying to him whatever title Cary S.
Jones had, and admitted that he was in possession of the
premises in controversy.
No further evidence being offered, the court charged the
jury that the deed of September 10, 1837, was a valid conveyance and passed to the grantee Jones all the interest of Margaret Ann Sinclair in the premises; that the defendant, by
subsequent conveyances, had become the grantee of that interest; and that he was entitled to a verdict. To this charge the
plaintiffs excepted.
The act of the general assembly of Ohio, passed February
21, 1831, entitled "An act to provide for the proof, acknowledgment, and recording of deeds and other instruments of
writing," was in force both when Mrs. Sinclair acknowledged
the deed to Jones - September 10, 1837- and when it was
acknowledged, in 1840, by her husband. Its fifth' section is
in these words: "All deeds, mortgages, powers of attorney,
and other instruments of writing, for the conveyance or incumbrance of any land, tenements or hereditaments, situate
within this [that] State, executed and acknowledged, or
proved in any other State, Territory or country, in conformity
with the laws of such State, Territory or country, or in conformity with the laws of this State, shall be valid as if executed within this State in conformity with the foregoing
provisions of this act."
29 Ohio Statutes, 346; 1 S. & 0.
458, 465.

The statute of Virginia applicable to the case was the act
of February 24, 1819 (Revised Code, Va., 1819, p. 361), entitled "An act to reduce into one the several acts for regulating conveyances and concerning wrongful alienations."
Its first section provides:
"That no estate of inheritance or freehold, or for a term of

SBWALL v. HAYMAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

more than five years, in lands or tenements, shall be conveyed
from one to another unless the conveyance be declared by*
writing sealed and delivered; nor shall such conveyance be
good against a purchaser for valuable consideration, not having notice thereof, or any creditor, unless the same writing be
acknowledged by the party or parties who shall have sealed
and delivered it, or be proved by three witnesses to be his, her
or their act, before the court of the county, city or corporation in which the land conveyed or some part thereof lieth, or
in the manner hereinafter directed, and be lodged with the
clerk of such court to be there recorded."
The fourth section provides:
"All bargains, sales and other conveyances whatsoever of
any lands, tenements or hereditaments, whether they be made
for passing any estate of freehold or inheritance, or for a term
of years, and all deeds of settlement upon marriage wherein
either lands, slaves, money or other personal things shall be
settled or covenanted to be left or paid, at the death of the
party or otherwise; and all deeds of trust and mortgages
whatsoever, which shall hereafter be made and executed, shall
be void, as to all creditors and subsequent purchasers 'for
valuable consideration without notice,' unless they shall be
acknowledged or proved and 'lodged with the clerk to be'
recorded, according to the directions of this act; but the
same, as between the parties and their heirs, 'and as to all
subsequent purchasers, with notice thereof, or without 'valuable consideration,' shall nevertheless be valid and binding."
The fifteenth section makes specific provision for the execution and acknowledgment of deeds by husband and wife.
It is as follows:
"When a husband and his wife have sealed and delivered a
writing, purporting to be a conveyance of any estate or interest, if she appear in court, and, being examined privily,.-and
apart from her husband, by one of the judges thereof, shall
declare to him that she did freely and willingly seal and deliver the said writing, to be then shown and explained to her,
and wishes not to retract it, and shall, before the said court,
acknowledge the said writing, so again shown to her, to be

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

her act, such privy examination, acknowledgment and declaration shall thereupon be entered of record in such court; and
if, before any two justices of the peace, for any county or cor-poration, in ' any State' or Territory of the United States ' or
of the District of Columbia,' such married woman, being
examined privily and apart from her husband, and having the
writing aforesaid fully explained to her, shall acknowledge the
same to be her act and deed, and shall declare that she had
willingly signed, sealed and delivered the same, and that she
wished not to retract it, and such privy examination, acknowledgment and declaration shall be certified by such justices,
under their hands and seals, by a certificate annexed to said
writing, and to the following effect, that is to say: County or
Corporation,so: We, A. B. and C. D., justices of the peace in
the county (or corporation)aforesaid,in the State (or Territory
or -District)of - , do hereby certify that . F., the wife of
G. H-., parties to a certain deed, bearing date on the- day of
and hereunto annexed, personally affeared before us
in our county (or corporation)aforesaid; and being examined
by us, privily and apartfrom her husband, and having the
deed aforesaidfully explained to her, she, the said E. F, acknowledged the same to be her act and deed, and declared that
she had willingly signed, sealed and delivered the same, and
that she wished not to retract it. Given under our hands and
seals this- day of A. . [Seal.] C./.. [Seal.]; and
such certificate shall be offered for record to the clerk of the
court in which such deed ought to be recorded; it shall be the
duty of such clerk to record the said certificate accordingly,
along with the deed to which it is annexed; and when the
privy examination, acknowledgment and declaration of a
married woman shall have been so taken in court and
entered of record, or certified by two magistrates, and delivered to the clerk to be recorded, and the deed also shall
have been duly acknowledged or proven, as to the husband,
and delivered to the clerk to be recorded, pursuant to the
directions of this act, such deed shall be as effectual in law, to
pass all the right, title and interest of the wife, as if she had
been an unmarried woman: Provided,however, that no cove-

SEWALL v. HAYMAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

nant or warranty, contained in such deed hereafter executed,
shall in any manner operate upon any feme covert and her
heirs, further than to convey effectually, from suchfeme covert
and her heirs, her right of dower, or other interest in real
estate, which she may have at the date of such deed."
The first section of the Ohio statute of 1831, (1 S. & C. 458,)
as modified by the subsequent acts of January 29, 1833, (Id.
470,) and February 17, 1834, (Id. 694,) provides that when any
man, or unmarried woman, above the age of eighteen years,
"shall execute within this State, any deed, mortgage, or other
instrument of writing, by which any land, tenement or hereditament shall be conveytd, or otherwise affected or incumbered
in law, such deed, mortgage, or other instrument of writing,
shall be signed and sealed by the grantor or grantors, maker
or makers, or and] such signing and sealing shall be acknowledged by such grantor or maker in the presence of two witnesses, who shall attest such signing and sealing, and subscribe
their names to such attestation, and such signing and sealing
shall also be acknowledged by such grantor or grantors,
maker or makers, before a judge of the Supreme Court, or
of the Court of Common Pleas, a justice of the peace, notary
pulic, mayor, or other presiding officer of an incorporated
town or city, who shall certify such acknowledgment on the
same sheet on which such deed, mortgage, or other instrument
of writing may be printed or written; and shall subscribe his
name to such certificate."
The second section of the same act provides: "That when
a husband and wife, she being eighteen years of age or upward, shall execute, within this State, any deed, mortgage, or
other instrument of writing, for the conveyance or incumbrance of the estate of the wife, or her right of dower in any
land, tenement or hereditament, situate within this State, such
deed, mortgage, or other instrument of writing, shall be signed
and sealed by the husband and wife; and such signing and
sealing shall be attested and acknowledged in the manner prescribed in the first section of this act; and, in addition thereto,
thie officer before whom such acknowledgment shall be made
shall examine the wife, separate and apart from her husband,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and shall read or otherwise make known to her the contents
of such deed, mortgage, or other instrument of writing; and
if upon such separate examination she shall declare that she
did voluntarily sign, seal, and acknowledge the same, and
that she is still satisfied therewith, such officer shall certify
such examination and declaration of the wife, together with
the acknowledgment as aforesaid, on such deed, mortgage, or other instrument of writing, and subscribe his name
thereto."
Obviously, in view of the statutes of Ohio, the first inquiry
must be whether the deed purporting to convey to Jones the
interest of John Sinclair and wife if the lands in dispute was
executed and acknowledged in conformity with the laws of
Virginia, where that deed purports to have been made.
There has been no appearance in this court by the defendant; nor, in the examination of the questions presented, have
we had the benefit of a brief in his behalf. But we are informed by the brief of the plaintiffs in error that it was claimed
in the court below that neither the acknowledgment nor record
of the Sinclair deed constituted parts of the deed itself, and
that the effect of the want of acknowledgment was simply
that defined by ยง 4 of the Virginia act of 1819, namely,
that the deed was valid and binding as between the parties
and their heirs.
We do not understand such to have been the law of Virginia
in respect either to the acknowledgment or recording of deeds
made by husband and wife. In .Fi'st .Nati.onal Bank of
.lar2 sonbrg v. Paul, 75 Va. 594, 600, the question was as
to the admissibility of parol evidence to show that the privy
examination of a married woman was regularly taken in the
form prescribed by the statute, or that the officer taking the
same, by mistake or inadvertence, omitted material statements
required to be set forth in the certificate of, such examination.
Referring to ยง 7 of c. 117 of the Virginia Code of 1873which, as we shall presently see, is substantially the same as
ยง 15 of the act of 1819-the court said: "It will thus be seen
that the statute prescribes the necessary steps to be taken
preparatory to a valid relinquishment of the claim for dower.

SEWALL v. HAYMAKER.
Opinion of the Court.

The certificate must set forth her declaration and acknowledgment as prescribed by the statute; it must be on or annexed
to the deed; it must be admitted to record along with the
deed, and when all these requirements shall have been complied with, and not till then, the writing operates to convey
from the wife her right of dower." After observing that the
object of the statute was to provide a substitute for the proceeding by fine in England, which was never in force in Virginia, whereby the rights of the wife on the one band might
be carefully guarded, and an indefeasible title secured on the
other, the court proceeds: "As was said by Judge Tucker,
(Harkins v. For yth, 9 Leigh, 301,) ' the validity of the deed
is made to depend not upon the truth of the certificate, but
upon its existence and its delivery to the clerk.' It is the authentic and sole medium of proving that the feme covert has
acknowledged the deed with all the solemnities required by
the statute." The Court of Appeals of Virginia, in the same
case, quotes with approval the following language from Elliott
v. Peirsol, 1 Pet. 328, 340: "What the law requires to be
done and appear of record can only be done and made to
appear of the record itself, or an exemplification of the record.
It is perfectly immaterial whether there be an acknowledgment or privy examination in fact or not-if there be no
record of the privy examination; for by the express provisions
of the law it is not the fact of privy examination merely, but
the recording of the fact which makes the deed effectual to
pass the estate of a feme covert."
In Borer v. Roanoke .lNat. Bank, decided in 1887, (not
yet in the regular reports, but reported in 4 S. E. Rep. 20,
826, 831,) the court said that "all the requirements of the statute, including recordation, as to both husband and wzffe, must
be complied with, or else the wife's title does not pass." After
an extended review of the statutes of Virginia relating to conveyances, beginning with the act of 1674, and including those
of 1705, 1710, 1748, 1785, 1792, 1814, and 1819, the court further said: "The part of ยง 15, c. 99, 1 Rev. Code, 1819, prescribing the effect of acknowledgments of married women
when recorded, was condensed substantially into what is now

728

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

7, c. 117, Code 1873, which was "thestatute in force and applicable to the case in hand. . . . The statute is absolute;
there is no room for presumptions resulting from technical
rules of construction; and all its requisites must be substantially complied with, or else nothing passes by the deed of a
married woman. As colony and State, such has been not only
the general policy, but the unmistakable spirit and letter of
the law in Virginia for over 200 years."
In view of these adjudications, it is clear that by the law of
Virginia the acknowledgnent and the recording of conveyances by husband and wife of lands in that Commonwealth,
in the mode prescribed by her laws, is essential to pass the estate of the wife in such lands.
The question, however, remains as to the effect of the death
of Mrs. Sinclair before her *husband had acknowledged the
deed. This question is by no means free from difficulty. It
was suggested, in a somewhat different form, but not decided,
in the case of Rorer v. Roaw7e H[at. Bank. It was there
argued that if a married woman's deed only became effectual
when duly admitted to record, it would result that if the wife
died between the date of her acknowledgment and the recording of the deed the instrument would be wholly void. But the
court said: "INot so, however, for as between the husband and
the grantee the deed would be valid and binding, though as to
the wife it would be inoperative - ineffectual to pass her title
until duly recorded, for it is only then that a married woman's conveyance becomes a complete transaction. But it is
useless to argue this proposition as the pretended recordation
in 1875 of the deed of 1861 was prior to Mrs. Rorer's death.
It is sufficient to say that, if the question were presented
directly for decision, it would be an exceedingly interesting
one, as the authority for recordation at a time subsequent to
the execution and delivery of the deed seems to rest solely
upon the presumption of the wife's continuing acquiescence;
and in 2 Tuck. B1. Com., Bk. 2, p. 268, the distinguished author
significantly suggests the question whether recordation after
the death of the wife would be effectual."
Although it was not essential, under the Ohio statute, that

SEWALL v. HAYM1AKER.
Opinion of the Court.

the deed signed by Sinclair and wife be put upon record in
Virginia, we axe of opinion that upon her death it became so far as the laws of the latter State axe concerned - inoperative as a conveyance of her interest in the lands in controversy.
Until the husband acknowledged it, and thereby, in the only
way prescribed by statute, gave his assent to her conveying
away her interest, the deed was ineffectual for any purpose.
While it may not have been necessary that they should
acknowledge the deed at the same time, or upon the same
occasion, or before the same officer, the statute of Virginia,
upon any fair interpretation of its words, and having regard
to the policy which induced its enactment, must be held to
have required that the acknowledgment of the husband should
occur in the lifetime of the wife, while she was capable of asking his consent to the conveyance of her lands. But that assent
was of no avail after the death of the wife before the husband
had, by acknowledgment of the deed, signified his willingness
to have her convey to Jones, under whom the defendant claims
title. Upon her death the title passed to some one. It did
not pass to Jones, for the reason that there was not then in
existence any completed conveyance, sufficient, under the law,
to!transfer her estate to a grantee. It, therefore, must have
passed to her heirs, and their title could not be divested by
any subsequent act of the husband. The fourth section of the
Virginia statute, declaring certain conveyances to be valid and
binding as between the parties and their heirs, has no application to conveyances by a wife in which the husband does not
join, during her lifetime, by an acknowledgment in the modeprescribed by law.
It results that, if the admissibility as evidence of the deed
to Jones depends upon its validity, under the laws of Virginia,
as a conveyance of Mrs. Sinclair's interest in these lands, the
court erred in not excluding it from the jury.
Was the deed executed and acknowledged in conformity
with the laws of Ohio, where the lands are situated ? In other
words, would the deed have conveyed the interest of Mrs.
Sinclair if it had been executed and acknowledged in Ohio
by the wife, in her lifetime, but not acknowledged by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

husband until after the death of the wife ? If so, it may be
that, under the Ohio statute of 1831, the deed would be good

as between the heirs of -Mrs. Sinclair and Tones; for that
statute declares that a conveyance of lands in Ohio will be
valid if acknowledged in conformity either with the laws
of the State in which it is executed, or in conformity with
the laws of Ohio.
Upon examining the statutes of Ohio -the controlling provisions of which have been referred to -and, also, the decisions
of the Supreme Court of that State to which our attention has
been called, we find nothing to justify us in holding that a
deed for land, acknowledged by the wife, but not acknowledged
by the husband in the lifetime of the wife, will pass her estate
in the lands conveyed. In Ludlow v. O'3Neill, 29 Ohio St.
181, it was held- using the language of the syllabus- that
"under the statute of February 22, 1831, it is not indispensable to the validity of a deed executed by husband and wife
that they should acknowledge it before the same officer or at
the same time and place, or that their acknowledgments
should be certified by a single certificate." Yet "the acknowledgment of the wife is not binding upon her until the deed
is executed and acknowledged by the husband." "The husband," the court said, "can render the wife every needed
protection by himself refusing to sign and acknowledge the
deed. If she acknowledge it before the husband, it is presented to him with the wife's signature and acknowledgment,
and he has only to refuse to acknowledge." We are of opinion
that equally under the Ohio and Virginia statutes, a deed by
the husband and wife conveying the latter's land is inoperative
to pass her title unless the husband - she having duly acknowledged the deed -should, in her lifetime, and by an acknowledgment in the form prescribed by law, signify his assent to
such conveyance. For the reasons stated the judgment is
Reversed, with directions to granta new trial, andforfurther
proceedings in conformity with law and the principles of
this opinion.
MR. JUSTic, XMrimws took no part in the decision of this
case.

