OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Syllabus.

breach of contract or of duty on the part of this defendant,
the case is relieved of all difficulty.
The conductor of the defendant's train, upon the plaintiff's
presenting a ticket bearing no stamp of the agent at Hot
Springs, had no authority to waive any condition of the contract, to dispense with the want of such stamp, to inquire into
the previous circumstances, or to permit him to travel on the
train. It would be inconsistent alike with the express terms
of the contract of the parties, and with the proper performance of the duties of the conductor, in examining the tickets
of other passengers, and in conducting his train with due
regard to speed and safety, that he should undertake to determine, from oral statements of the passenger or other evidence,
facts alleged to have taken place before the beginning of the
return trip, and as to which the contract on the face of the
ticket made the stamp of the agent of the Hot Springs Railroad Company at Hot Springs the only and conclusive proof.
The necessary conclusion is that the plaintiff cannot maintain this action against the defendant for the act of its conductor in putting him off the train. Townskend v. New YFork
Central Railroad,56 N. Y. 295; Shelton v. Zake Shore Railway, 29 Ohio St. 214; Frederickv. .Aarquette &c. Railroad,37
Michigan, 342; Bradshaw v. South Boston Railroad,135 Mass.
407; Murdock v. Boston & Albany Railroad,137 Mass. 293,
299; Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Fleming, 14 Lea
(Tenn.), 128.
Judgment affrmed.

HOLLAND v. SHIPLEY.
AIPPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF" THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Xo. 249. Argued and Submitted April 25,1888. -Decided May 14,1888.

A patent for a lead-holding tube of a pencil, having at the lower end two or
more longitudinal slots, a screw-thread inside, and a clamping-sleeve outside, each part of which, as well as the combination of two or more
slots with the sleeve, or of a single slot with the screw-thread, has been
previously used in such tubes, is void for want of invention.

HOLLAND v. SHIPLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

BILL nT EQUITY to restrain alleged infringements of letters
patent. Decree dismissing the bill. Complainant appealed.
The case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. George J. Murray for appellant.
Xr. E. . Wood and M2r1.Edward Boyd, for appellees, submitted on their brief.
MR.

JUSTICE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal from a decree dismissing a bill in equity
for the infringement of letters patent granted to the plaintiff
January 22, 1884, for "improvements in lead-holders for pencils," which (omitting the drawings and the explanation of
them) fully shows the invention claimed, and the form of leadholders or lead-tubes previously in use and known to the
patentee, as follows:
"The object of my present invention is to hold the lead or
crayon in pencils from slipping back within the tube when
pressed upon by the act of writing, without danger of breaking the lead.
"Lead-tubes now in common use are usually slotted at the
lower end to form elastic clamping-fingers, which fingers are
closed upon the lead near its point end by a sleeve or a tube
which moves longitudinally over the fingers. These fingers
are either smooth upon the inside, or terminate at their ends
in sharp inward projections or claws. The first kind soon
become so smooth that the lead slips back when borne upon
in the act of writing; and the second frequently breaks the
lead when the clamping-sleeve is tightened up, and when
tightened up carefully the lead often breaks in use when writing with the pencil inclined. I overcome both these objections by making a fine screw-thread within the lower end of
the tube, before it is slotted to form the clamping-fingers.
"The clamping-fingers may, instead of being screw-threaded
upon the inside, be serrated or roughened to accomplish the
same result; but the screw-thread is much better, because by
this means a uniformly-even roughened surface can be made

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

within the lower end of the tube at comparatively small expense; and, as these pencils are designed to take the place of
the common lead-pencil, they must be made cheaply to insure
their introduction into general use.
"I am aware that it is old to provide a pencil-case for holding ordinary lead-pencils with a sliding ring, to which are
secured spring-clamps having their holding-surfaces serrated,
and having their shanks bent to approach each other, then jut
outwardly and downwardly at their free ends, so that a ringslide may be moved upon said shanks to cause the free ends of
the clamps to grasp or release a pencil ; and I am also aware
that it is old to provide the lead-holding tube of a pencil with
an interior thread and a single slot. I therefore do not claim
either of these devices.
"I claim, as my invention "1. As a new article of manufacture, a lead-tube for pencils, consisting, substantially as before set forth, of a tube provided at one end with internal or female threads and two or
more longitudinal slots to form threaded fingers.
"2. The combination, with the lead-tube provided at one
end.with internal threads and two or more longitudinal slots,
of a clamping-sleeve adapted to be adjusted upon the slotted
end of the tube to press the threaded fingers upon a lead,
substantially as described."
It thus appears upon the face of the plaintiff's specification
that there were already in use lead-holding tubes for pencils
with two or more slots at the lower end, so as to form elastic
clamping-fingers, closing upon the lead by means of a sliding
sleeve; as well as tubes with a single slot and an interior
screw-thread.

The slots, the screw-thread within, and the outer sleeve
being all old, and the combination of two or more slots with
the sleeve, or of a single slot with the screw-thread, being
also old, it is too clear for discussion, that to make two or
more slots in a tube threaded inside and sleeved outside required no invention; and it is therefore unnecessary to consider the evidence upon the question whether the plaintiff was
the first person who did this.
-Decree affirred.

