OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE AND ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL
No. 238.

FROM THE COURT OF CLAIM.

Argued April 19, 1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.

Section 5 of the act of March 3, 1879, 20 Stat. c. 180, 355, 358, did not operate to repeal § 3962 Rev. Stat.; and when it was itself repealed by the
act of June 11, 1880, 21 Stat. c. 206, 177, 178, § 3962 of the Revised
Statutes remained in force against railroad companies contracting to
carry the mails.
When there are two provisions of law in the Statutes relating to the same
subject, effect is to be given to both, if practicable.
A statute will not operate to repeal a prior statute merely because it repeats
some of the provisions of the prior act, and omits others, or adds new
provisions; but in such cases the later act operates as a repeal of the
former one only when it plainly appears that it was intended as a substitute for the first act.

Tim case was stated by the court as follows:
The petitioner, the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Rail-way Company, is a corporation formed under the laws of Wisconsin, and owns and operates several lines of railway in that
State, and in the States of Illinois, Iowa and Minnesota, and
in the Territory of Dakota. In 1879 it entered into sundry
contracts with the Post-Office Department to transport the
mails of the United States over its lines, on specially designated routes, at rates fixed under the acts of Congress of
March 3, 1873, June 12, 1876, and June 17, 1878. The petitioner alleges that it transported the mails upon all the routes
designated in accordance with the contracts, except when prevented by the elements or other unavoidable disasters; that
between the autumn of 1880 and the spring of 1883, owing to
snow-blockades, floods, and other unavoidable causes, which it
was impossible for the petitioner to provide against, it was
prevented at various times from running its trains of cars over
the routes, and consequently the mails were delayed and accumulated until the cars could be got through; but the peti-

CHICAGO RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES.

407

Opinion of the Court.

tioner did finally carry all the mails over the routes, and as
frequently as it was possible; that the Post-Office Department
deducted from the pay of the petitioner at divers times, during the period mentioned, a large sum of money, claiming a
Tight to do so because of the failure of the petitioner to transport the mails upon the ordinary schedule time for the departure and arrival of the mails, notwithstanding the failures
were owing to no want of diligence or care in the petitioner,
but were owing wholly to the causes mentioned; and that such
deductions amounted to $31,251.86, which sum the petitioner
alleges is unjustly and unlawfully held from it, and therefore
asks judgment for the amount. A demurrer to this petition,
that it did not allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action, was interposed by the United States and sustained by
the court. Judgment was accordingly entered dismissing the
petition, and the petitioner appealed to this court.
31r. J. J. Farnsworthfor appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneraZ Howard for appellee.
.Attorney General was also on the brief.

-Mr.

MRm. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
The deductions from the compensation claimed by the railway company for its failure to make the trips required, that
is, to render the service stipulated, of which it complains, were
made by the Postmaster General under § 3962 of the Revised
Statutes, which is as follows:
"The Postmaster General may make deductions from the
pay of contractors, for failures to perform service according to
contract, and impose fines upon them for other delinquencies.
He may deduct the price of the trip in all cases where the trip
is not performed; and not exceeding three times the price if
the failure be occasioned by the fault of the contractor or carrier." This section in terms applies to all contractors, and,
standing alone, there would not be any serious contention
against the authority of the Postmaster General to make the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

deductions complained of. It is not pretended that ,the
amounts exceeded those mentioned in the section. It is,
however, insisted that the section, so far as applicable to railroad companies, was repealed by § 5 of the act of March 3,
1879, making appropriations for the service of the Post-Office
Department for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1880, which
provides:
"SEc. 5. That the Postmaster General shall deduct from
the pay of the railroad companies, for every failure to deliver
a mail within its schedule time, not less than one-half of the
price of the trip, and where the trip is not performed, not less
than the price of one trip, and not exceeding, in either case,
the price of three trips: Provided,however, That if the failure
is caused by a connecting road, then only the connecting
road shall be fined. And where such failure is caused by
unavoidable casualty, the Postmaster General, in his discretion, may remit the fine. And he may make deductions and
impose fines for other delinquencies." 20 Stat. c. 180, 355,
358.
This latter section was repealed on the 11th of June, 1880
(21 Stat. c. 206, 177, 178); and § 12 of the Revised Statutes
provides that the repeal of a repealing statute shall not revive
the original act. It is, therefore, contended that there was no
statute in force which authorized the deductions at the time
they were made between the autumn of 1880 and the spring
of 1883, during which period the alleged failures in the mail
transportation occurred.
There is a brief and conclusive answer to this contention.
Section 3962 of the Revised Statutes is not repealed by § 5 of
the act of 1879. Section 3962 authorizes a deduction from the
pay of contractors, whether they be natural persons or corporations, the price of the trip in all cases where the trip is not
performed, and not exceeding three times the price if the failure be caused by the fault of the contractor or carrier. Section 5 of the'act of 1879 applies only to railroad companies,
and has special reference to failures of delivery within schedule time, and makes a difference between them and failures to
make the trips, leaving the provision for the latter substan-

