OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

made no objections. The state bondholders were made -parties,
and they did appear. We are not concerned, however, with
the proceedings, or the merits of the case, but only with the
question of the jurisdiction of the court. Of this we have
no doubt. Perhaps the Circuit Court, on application of the
receivers, might have interfered to prevent the petitioner from
proceeding in the state court, had they thought proper to
make such an application; but they did nothing of the kind.
This was not the case of a proceeding in the state court to
deprive the receivers of property in their possession as such.
That would have been a different thing, and the state court
would not have had jurisdiction for such a purpose. This was
only a case for enforcing the right of the petitioner to have
cancelled on the books of the recorder a mortgage which had
been satisfied and paid, -not interfering in any way with
the possession of the receiver.
We are satisfied that the state court had jurisdiction of the
case, and
The judgment of the &,reme Court is af med.

LELOUP v. PORT OF MOBILE."
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ALABAMA.
"o. 274. Submitted May 2, 1888.-Decided May 14, 1888.

Where a telegraph company is doing the business of transliitting messages
between different States, and has accepted and is acting under the telegraph law passed by Congress July 24th, 1866, no State within which it
sees fit to establish an office can impose upon it a license tax, or require
it to take out a license for the transaction of such business.
Telegraphic communications are commerce, as well as in tle nature of postal service, and if carried on between different States, they are interstate
commerce, and within the power of regulation conferred upon Congress,
free from the control of state regulations, except such as are strictly of
a police character; and any state regulations by way of tax on the occupation or business, or requiring a license to transact such business, are
unconstitutional and void.

LELOUP v. PORT OF MOBILE.
Opinion of the Court.
A general license tax on a telegraph company affects its entire business,
interstate as well as domestic or internal, and is unconstitutional.
The property of a telegraph company, situated within a State, may be
taxed by the State as all other property is taxed; but its business of an
interstate character cannot be thus taxed.
The Western Union Telegraph Company established an office in the city of
Mobile, Alabama, and was required to pay a license tax under a city
ordinance, which imposed an annual license tax of $225 on all telegraph
companies, and the agent of the company was fined for the non-payment
of this tax: in an action to recover the fine, he pleaded the charter and
nature of occupation of the company, and its acceptance of the act of
Congress of July 24th, 1866, and the fact that its business consisted in
transmitting messages to all parts of the United States, as well as in
Alabama: Held, a good defence.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr'. Gaylord B. Clark for plaintiff in error submitted on
his brief.
io

appearance for defendant in error.

MR.JUSTICE BRAD.EY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action brought in the Mobile Circuit Court, in
the State of Alabama, by the Port of M obile, a municipal corporation, against Edward Leloup, agent of the Western Union
Telegraph Cpmpany, to recover a penalty imposed upon him
for the violation of an ordinance of said corporation, adopted
in pursuance of the powers given to it by the legislature of
Alabama, and in force in August, 1883. The ordinance was
as follows, to wit: "Be it ordained by the Mobile Police
Board, that the license tax for the year, from the 15th of
March, 1883, to the 15th of March, 1884, be, and the same is
hereby, fixed as follows: . . .
"On telegraph companies, $225.
"Be it further ordained: For each and every violation of
the aforesaid ordinance the person convicted thereof shall be
fined by the recorder not less than one nor more than fifty
dollars."
The complaint averred that the defendant, being the managing agent of the Western Union Telegraph Company, a corVOL. cxxvii-41

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

poration having its place of business in the said port of -mobile,
and then and there engaged in the business and occupation of
transmitting telegrams from and to points within the State
of Alabama and between the private individuals of the State of
Alabama, as well as between citizens of said State and citizens
of other States, committed a breach of said ordinance by neglecting and refusing to pay said license to the said municipal
corporation. The complainant further averred that for this
breach the recorder of the port of Mobile imposed on the defendant a fine of five dollars, for which sum the suit was
brought.
The defendant pleaded that at the time of the alleged
breach of said ordinance, he was the duly appointed manager,
at the port of Mobile, of the Western Union Telegraph Company. That said company "was prior to the fifth day of
June, 1867, a telegraph company duly incorporated and
organized under the laws of the State of New York, and
by its charter authorized to construct, maintain, and operate
lines of telegraph in and between the various States of
the Union, including the State of Alabama. That on said
fifth day of June, 186-7, the said telegraph company duly filed
its written acceptance with the Postmaster General of the
United States of the restrictions and obligations of an act of
Congress entitled 'An act to aid in the construction of telegraph lines and to secure to the government the use of the
same for postal, military, and other purposes,' approved July
24th,'1866. That in accordance with the authority of its said
charter and the said act of Congress, and by agreement with
the railroad companies, the said telegraph company constructed
its lines and was at the time of the said alleged breach of said
ordinance, maintaining and operating said lines of telegraph on
the various public railroads leading into or through the said
port of Mobile, to wit, the Mobile and Ohio Railroad, a railroad extending from the said port of Mobile, in Alabama,
through the States of Mississippi, Tennessee, and Kentucky,
to Cairo, in the State of Illinois; the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad, extending from Cincinnati, in the State of Ohio,
through said port of Mobile to New Orleans, in the State of

LELOUP v. PORT OF MOBILE.
Opinion of the Court.

Louisiana, with a branch extending from said State of Alabama over the Pensacola and Louisville Railroad to Pensacola.,
in the State of Florida. That the said telegraph lines so running into or through said port of Mobile connected with and
extended beyond the termini of the said railroads over other
railroads, making continuous lines of telegraph from the office
of said company, in said port of Mobile, to, through, and over
all of the principal railroads, post roads, and military roads in
and of the United States, and having offices for the transaction of telegraph business in the departments at Washington,
in the District of Columbia. and in all of the principal cities,
towns, and villages in each of the United States and in the Territories thereof. That all of said railroads so leading into and
through the said port of Mobile and elsewhere in the United
States are public highways, and that the daily mails of the
United States are regularly carried thereon, under authority
of law and the direction of the Postmaster General, and that
said railroads and each of them are post roads of the United
States. That said telegraph lines are also constructed under
and across the navigable streams of the United States, in the
State of Alabama and in the other States of the Union, but in
all cases said lines are so constructed and maintained as not
to obstruct the navigation of such streams and the ordinary
travel on such military and post roads. That the said telegraph company was, before and during said year, commencing
March 15th, 1883, and now is, engaged in the business of sending and, receiving telegrams over said lines for the public
between its said office in the port of Mobile and other places
in other States and Territories of the United States, and to
and from foreign countries; also in sending telegraphic communications between the several departments of the Government of the United States and'their officers and agents, giving
priority to said official telegraphic communications over all
other business. And defendant avers that said official telegrams have been and are sent at rates which have been fixed
by the Postmaster General annually since the said 5th of
June, 1867. And defendant avers that as the manager of-said
company and in its name and under its direction and appoint-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

ment and in no other manner or capacity was he engaged in
said telegraph business at the time and the manner as alleged
in said complaint."
To this plea a demurrer was filed and sustained by the court
and judgment was given for the plaintiff ; and, on appeal to
the Supreme Court of Alabama, this judgment was affirmed.
The present writ of error is brought to review the judgment
of the Supreme Court. That court adopted its opinion given
on a previous occasion between the same parties, in which
the Circuit Court had decided in favor of the defendant, and
its decision was reversed. In that opinion the Supreme .Court
said: "The defence was that the ordinance is an attempt to
regulate commerce and violative of the clause of the Constitution of the -United States which confers on Congress the
I power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among
the several States.' The Circuit Court held the defence good
and gave judgment against the port of Mobile. Is the ordinance a violation of the Constitution of the 'United States?
We will not gainsay that this license tax was imposed as a
revenue measure- as a means of taxing the business, and
thus compelling it to aid in supporting the city government.
That no revenue for state or municipal purposes can be derived
from the agencies or instrumentalities of commerce, no one
will contend. The question generally mooted is, how shall
this end be attained? In the light of the many adjudications
on the subject, the ablest jurists will admit that the line which
separates the power from its abuse is sometimes very difficult
to trace. NVo possible good could come of any attempt to collate, explain, and harmonize them. We will not attempt it.
We confess ourselves unable to draw a distinction between
this case and the principle involved in Osborne v. .obile, 16
Wall. 4:79. In that case the license levy was upheld, and we
think it should be in this. Josepk v. Rando4ph, 71 Ala. 499."
In approaching the question thus presented, it is proper to
note that the license tax in question is purely a tax on the
privilege of doing the business in which the telegraph company was engaged. By the laws of Alabama in force at the
time this tax was imposed, the telegraph company was re-

LELOUP v. PORT OF MOBILE.
Opinion of the Court.

quired, in addition, to pay taxes to the State, county, and port
of Mobile, on its poles, wires, fixtures, and other property, at
the same rate and to the same extent as other corporations
and individuals were required to do. Besides the tax on tangible property, they were also required to pay a tax of threequarters of one per cent on their gross receipts within the
State.
The question is squarely presented to us, therefore, whether
a State, as a condition of doing business within its jurisdiction,
may exact a license tax from a telegraph company, a large
part of whose business is the transmission of messages from
one State to another and between the United States and
foreign countries, and which is invested with the powers and
privileges conferred by the act of Congress passed July 24th,
1866, and other acts incorporated in Title LXV of the Revised
Statutes? Can a State prohibit such a company from doing
such a business within its jurisdiction, unless it will pay a tax
and procure a license for the privilege? If it can, it can exclude such companies, and prohibit the transaction of such
business altogether. We are not prepared to say that this
can be done.
Ordinary occupations are taxed in various ways, and, in
most cases, legitimately taxed. But we fail to see how a
State can tax a business occupation when it cannot tax the
business itself. Of course, the exaction of a license tax as a
condition of doing any particular business, is a tax on the
occupation; and a tax on the occupation of doing a business is
surely a tax on the business.
N~ow, we have decided that communication by telegraph is
commerce, as well as in the nature of postal service, and if
carried on between different States, it is commerce among the
several States, and directly within the power of regulation conferred upon Congress, and free from the control of state regulations, except such as are strictly of a police character. In
the case of The Pensacola Telegraph Company v. The Mestern.
Union, Telegraph Company, 96 U. S. 1, we held that it was
not only the right, but the duty of Congress to take care that
,intercourse among the States and the transmission of interli-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

gence between them be not obstructed or unnecessarily incumbered by state legislation; and that the act of Congress
passed July 24:th, 1866, above referred to, so far as it declares
that the erection of telegraph lines shall, as against state interference, be free to all who accept its terms and conditions, and
that a telegraph company of one State shall not, after accepting them, be excluded by another State from prosecuting its
business within her jurisdiction, is a legitimate regulation of
commercial intercourse among the States, and is also appropriate legislation to execute the powers of Congress over the
postal service. In Western Union Telegraph Company v.
Texas, 105 U. S. 460, we decided that a State cannot lay a tax
on the interstate business of a telegraph company, as it is interstate commerce, and that if the company accepts the provisions of the act of 1866, it becomes an agent of the United
States, so far as the business of the government is concerned;
and state laws are unconstitutional which impose a tax on
messages sent in the service of the government, or sent by any
persons from one State to another. In the present case, it is
true, the tax is not laid upon individual messages, but it is laid
on the occupation, or the business of sending such messages.
It comes plainly within the principle of the decisions lately
made by this court in Robbins v. The Taxing -Districtof
Shelby County, 120 U. S. 489, and Philadeephiaand Southern
Steamship Co. v. Pennsylvania,122 U. S. 326.
It is parallel with the case of Brown v. Maryland, 12
Wheat. 419. That was a tax on an occupation, and this court
held that it was equivalent to a tax on the business carried
on, -

(the importation of goods from foreign countries), -

and

even equivalent to a tax on the imports themselves, and therefore contrary to the clause of the Constitution which prohibits
the States from laying any duty on imports. The Maryland
act which was under consideration in that case declared that
"all importers of foreign articles or commodities, etc., and all
other persons solling the same by wholesale, etc., shall, before
they are authorized to sell, take out a license, . . . for
which they shall pay fifty dollars," etc., subject to a penalty
for neglect or refusal. Chief Justice Taney, referring to the

LELOUP v. PORT OF MOBILE.
Opinion of the Court.

case of Brown v. Earyland in Almy v. State of California,
24 How. 169, 173, in which it was decided that a state stamp
tax on bills of lading was void, said: "We think this case
cannot be distinguished from that of Brown v. -Maryland.
That case was decided in 1827, and the decision has always
been regarded and followed as the true construction of the
clause of the Constitution now in question.

.

.

.

The opin-

ion of the court, delivered by Chief Justice Marshall, shows
that it [the case] was carefully and fully considered by the
court. And the court decided that this state law [the Maryland law under consideration in Brown v. Afaryland], was a
tax on imports, and the mode of imposing it, by giving it the
form of a tax on the occupation of the importer, merely
varied the form in which the tax was imposed, without varying the substance."
But it is urged that a portion of the telegraph company's
business is internal to the State of Alabama, and therefore
taxable by the State. But that fact does not remove the difficulty. The tax affects the whole business without discrimination. There are sufficient modes in which the internal business,
if not already taxed in some other way, may be subjected to
taxation, without the imposition of a tax which covers the
entire operations of the company.
The state court relies upon the case of Osborne v. .fobile, 16
Wall. 479, which brought up for consideration an ordinance of
the city, requiring every express company, or railroad company
doing business in that city, and having a business extending
beyond the limits of the State, to pay an annual license of
$500; if the business was confined within the limits of the
State, the license fee was only $100; if confined within the
city, it was $50; subject in each case to a penalty for neglect
or refusal to pay the charge. This court held that the ordinance was not unconstitutional. This was in December term,
1872. In view of the course of decisions which have been
made since that time, it is very certain that such an ordinance
would now be regarded as repugnant to the power conferred
upon Congress to regulate commerce among the several
States.

OCTOBER TERM,. 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

A great number and variety of cases involving the commercial power of Congress have been brought to the attention of
this court during the past fifteen years which have frequently
made it necessary to reexamine the whole subject with care;
and the result has sometimes been that in order to give full
and fair effect to the different clauses of the Constitution, the
court has felt constrained to recur to the fundamental principles stated and illustrated with so much clearness and force
by Chief Justice Marshall and other members of the court in
former times, and to modify in some degree certain dicta and
decisions that have occasionally been made in the intervening
period. This is always done, however, with great caution,
and an anxious desire to place the final conclusion reached
upon the fairest and most just construction of the Constitution
in all its parts.
In our opinion such a construction of the Constitution leads
to the conclusion that no State has the right to lay a tax on
interstate commerce in any form, whether by way of duties
laid on the transportation of the subjects of that commerce,
or on the receipts derived from that transportation, or on the
occupation or business of carrying it on, and the reason is that
such taxation is a burden on that commerce, and amounts to
a regulation of it, which belongs solely to Congress. This is
the result of so many recent cases that citation is hardly necessary. As a matter of convenient reference we give the following list: Case of State Freight Tax, 15 Wall. 232 ; Pensacola Telegraph Co. v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 96 U. S.
1; 3fobile v. imball, 102 U. S. 691; Western. Union Telegraph
Co. v. Texas, 105 U. S.460; .Aforan v. Y7 ew Orleans, 112 U. S.
69; Gloucester -Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 196;
Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S.622; Walling v. 3fichigan, 116
U. S. 446; Picard v. Pullman Southern Car Co., 117 U. S.
34; Wabash Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557; Robbins
v. Shelby County Taxing -District,120 U. S.489; Philadephia
& Southern Steamshop Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pendleton, 112 U. S. 347;
Ratterman v. Western Union Telegraph Co., ante, 411.
We may here repeat, what we have so often said before,

FARMERS' LOAN &c.

CO. v. NEWMVAN.

Syllabus.

that this exemption of interstate and foreign commerce from
state regulation does not prevent the State from taxing the
property of those engaged in such commerce located within
the State as the property of other citizens is taxed, nor. from
regulating matters of local concern which may incidentally
affect commerce, such as wharfage, pilotage, and the like.
We have recently had before us the question of taxing the
property of a telegraph company, in the case of Vestern Union
Telegraph Co. v. Xassachusetts, 125 Uf. S. 530.

The result of the conclusion which we have reached is, that
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Alabama must be
Reversed, and the cause remandedwith instructionsto reverse
the judgment of the fobile Cirouit Court; and it is so
ordered.

FARMERS' LOAN AND TRUST COMPANY v.

NEWV[AN.
APPEAL FROM THE

RCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MSSO'URI.
No. 253.

Argued April 25, 26,188S. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

The receiver in a suit for the foreclosure of a railroad mortgage, being
directed by the court to settle and adjust outstanding claims prior to the
mortgage debt, and to purchase in outstanding adverse liens or titles,
agreed with the holder of a debt, which constituted a paramount lien on
a portion of the railroad, for the purchase of his lien and the payment
of his debt out of any money coming into the receiver's hands from the
part of the railroad covered by the lien, or from the sale of the receiver's
certificates, or from the earnings of that portion of the road, or from
the sale of it under the decree of the court; and this agreement was carried out on the part of the vendor. When it was made, a decree for a
sale had already been made in the foreclosure suit; and afterwards the
road was sold as an entirety, with nothing to show the price paid for
the portion covered by the lien, and payment was made in mortgage
bonds without any money passing. The vendor of the prior lien then
intervened in the suit, asking the court to enforce his agreement with
the receiver. Subsequently the court confirmed the sale, reserving to
itself the power to make further orders respecting claims, rights, or
interests in or liens on the property. At a subsequent term of court the

