OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
MOTION TO DISMISS.

The case is stated in the opinion.

.Xr. Edgar H. Farrarand .2f. Ernest B. .mttschnitt for
the motion.
.M. C. TF. Hornorand .21r. IF. S. Benedict opposing.
MR. JusTIoE MILLER: A motion is made to dismiss this
cause because Charles Lafitte, the husband of the defendant
in error, is not named in the writ of error as a party to the
proceedings. The judgment was in favor of his wife Josephine,
and he was a party authorizing her in the suit below, according to the forms of the Louisiana law, which require that the
hus~and must be joined with the wife when she sues, whether
he has any interest or not; and the plaintiff in error has served
a citation on Lafitte, although he was not named in the writ
of error. It may be doubtful whether Lafitte is a necessary
party in this court, seeing he was not a party to the judgment.
If for conformity's sake he ought to have been brought here
to aid his wife in the writ of error, the citation to him is sufficient for that purpose. The motion to dismiss the case is
overruled.

WESTERN AIR LINE CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
v. MoILLIS.
ORIGINAL MOTION IN A CAUSE BROUGHT HERE BY WRIT OF ERROR
TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
'o. 1283. Submitted April 9,1888. -Decided

April 16,1888.

The court, for reasons stated in its opinion, denies a motion to vacate a supersedeas or to make an order that the appeal bond filed in the case does
not operate as a supersedeas.

THE defendants in error made the following motion:
"And now come the defendants in error in the above cause,
by John S. Cooper, their attorney and counsel, and move the

WESTERN CONSTRUCTION CO. v. McGILLIS.

'77

Opinion of the Court.

court to vacate the supersedeas in the above cause, or for an
order declaring that the appeal bond filed by appellant in said
cause does not operate as a supersedeas; because the writ of
error was not sued out or served within sixty days after the
rendering of the judgment entered and complained of in said
cause.
"JORN S. COOPER,
"Attorney and Counme for .Defendantsin -Eror."
-31r. John S. Cooper for the motion.
-Mr. E. Walker opposing.
M . JusTI, MILLER: This is a motion to vacate what is
called a supersedeas. The papers show that the writ was
neither sued out or served within sixty days after the rendition
of the judgment which is the subject of the writ of error: It
follows as a matter of course that the writ cannot operate as
a supersedeas, and we know of no motion that is necessary or
proper in this court on that subject. Writs of supersedeas do
not issue, unless it may become necessary from some peculiar
circumstances. The statute declares that, when within sixty
days, the plaintiff sues out his writ of error, files it with the
clerk of the proper court, and then gives a bond within a certain time mentioned by the statute, that the bond, if approved
for that purpose by the judge who grants the citation and the
writ of error, shall operate as a supersedeas. It is a matter of
law whether it operates as a supersedeas.
There is no evidence here of any proceeding to collect a
debt which has been disregarded. At all events there is no
occasion for a supersedeas.
The motion is denied.

