MARYE v. BALT. AND OHIO RAILROAD.

11l

Statement of the Case.

MARYE v. BALTIMORE AND OHIO RAILROA)
COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
No. 223. Argued and Submitted April 12,1888.-Decided April 23, 1888.

While it is quite competent for the State of Virginia to impose upon the
movable personal property of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, (a corporation organized under the laws of Maryland,) which is
brought within its territory and there habitually used and employed, the
same rate of taxation which is imposed upon similar property used in
like way by its own citizens, it has not done so in the taxing laws of the
State which were in force when the tax in controversy was imposed.
The statutes of Virginia relied upon by the plaintiff in error are not
applicable to the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, but are confined
to corporations which derive their authority from the laws of Virginia.

THIS was a bill in equity fied by the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company against the taxing officer of the State of
Virginia, for the purpose of enjoining him from selling certain
engines and cars, the property of the complainant, for the
payment of a tax alleged to have been illegally assessed
thereon. There was a decree in the Circuit Court granting
the relief prayed for, from which this appeal was prosecuted.
The material facts in the case were these: The Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company is a corporation organized under
the laws of Maryland, and a citizen thereof, by virtue of
whose charter its rolling stock is exempt from taxation. The
line of its road does not at any point lie in the State of Virginia. It, however, connects with certain roads belonging to
corporations incorporated by various acts of the legislature of
Virginia, to wit: the Winchester and Potomac Railroad, the
Winchester and Strasburg Railroad, and the Strasburg and
Hlarrisonburg Railroad, the last named being a part of the
old Manassas Gap Railroad; and during a portion of the time
embraced in the period for which the taxes in question were
levied it worked the Valley Railroad from Harrisonburg to

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

Staunton. All of these roads were operated by the Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company by virtue of leases or contracts,
which company for that purpose furnished and used its own
rolling stock, consisting of engines and cars. ,None of the
Virginia corporations owning either of these roads was the
owner of any rolling stock. The manner in which this rolling
stock was employed for this purpose was thus described:
"There is no such rolling stock assigned permanently to the
four lines above named, or either of them, in the State of
Virginia. The trains in which the rolling stock is used on the
four lines above named now start from Lexington, Virginia,
and pass through the State of Virginia, over the four lines
of railroad above named, into the State of West Virginia, and
thence into the State of Maryland to the city of Baltimore,
or if any of the cars are destined to western points, thence
from Harper's Ferry to the West, but the trains in which the
cars are hauled are run solid from Lexington, Virginia, (and
formerly before the road was completed to Lexington from
Staunton, Virginia,) to Baltimore. None of the rolling stock
is assigned permanently to service in the State of Virginia,
nor is any of the rolling stock set apart to the four lines in
that State, or to the four valley lines above mentioned at all;
but such rolling stock is used interchangeably upon the main
line and branches of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in the
States of Maryland and Virginia, and indeed, also, upon the
divisions of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in Pennsylvania,
and in States west of the Ohio River, just as the necessities
of the service of the company require. Sometimes this rolling
stock will be found on the main line, sometimes on the Pittsburg division, and sometimes on the trans-Ohio divisions,, and
there is none of it that'is permanently set apart for use upon
the four valley lines in Virginia above described."
The several Virginia corporations owning these four railroads, respectively, made their annual reports to the auditor
of public accounts as required by law, and were by the board
of public works duly assessed on their roadways, tracks, depots,
and other real estate owned by them. No tax was assessed
or levied as against them on account of any rolling stock,

MARYE v. BALT. AND OHIO RAILROAD.

119

Statement of the Case.

because they were not reported'to be the owners- of any. In
the month of June, 1883, the auditor of public accounts for
the State of Virginia assessed the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company for taxes on its rolling stock used on these
roads for the years from 1870 to 1881, inclusive, amounting
in the aggregate for eleven years to the sum of $22,249.25,
and placed the assessment in the hands of the treasurer of
Augusta County, Virginia, for collection. This officer was
proceeding to collect these takes by a distraint of the rolling
stock in question, the property of the complainant, when his
proceedings were arrested by the injunction of the Circuit
Court, afterward made perpetual by its final decree.
The act of the General Assembly of the State of Virginia,
under which the assessment and collection of these taxes were
sought to be justified, is contained in ยง 20, c. 119, of the acts
of the Virginia legislature, session of 1881-1882, being part
of the taxing laws of the State originally enacted in 1870 and
1871, and continued with amendments to the present time.
The material part of the act applicable to this case was as
follows:
"19. Every railroad and canal company not exempted from
taxation by virtue of its charter shall report annually on the
first day of June, to the auditor of public accounts, all of its
real and personal property of every description as of the first
day of February of each year, showing particularly in what
county or corporation such property is located, and classifying
the same under the following heads:
"First. Roadway and track, or canal bed.
"Second. Depots, depot grounds and lots, station buildings
and fixtures and machine shops.
"Third. Real estate not included in other classes.
"Fourth. Rolling stock, including passenger, freight, cattle,
or stock; baggage, mail, express, sleeping, palace, and all other
cars owned by or belonging to the company; boats, machinery,
and equipments; houses and appurtenances occupied by lockgate keepers and other employes.
"Fifth. Stores.
"Sixth. Telegraph lines.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"Seventh. Miscellaneous property.
"Every such company shall report, on or before the first
day of June of each year, the gross and net receipts of the
road or canal for the twelve months preceding the first day
of February of each year, and in all cases the report shall be
so made as to give the data on which the same is made. If
such road or canal is only in part within the Commonwealth,
the report shall show what part is within the Commonwealth
and what proportion the same bears to the entire length of
the road or canal, and shall apportion the receipts accordingly.
The reports herein required shall be verified by the oath of
the president or other proper officer. Upon the receipt of
every such report it shall be the duty of the auditor of public
accounts to lay the same before the board of public works,
who shall, after thirty days' notice previously given to the
president, treasurer, or other proper officer, proceed to ascertain and assess the value of the property so reported, upon
the best and most reliable information that can be procured;
and to this end shall be authorized and empowered to send
for persons and papers should it be deemed necessary. A
certified copy of the assessment, when made, shall be immediately forwarded by the secretary of the board to the president or other proper officer of every railroad or canal company
so assessed, whose duty it shall be to pay into the treasury of
the State, within sixty days after the receipt thereof, the tax
which may be imposed thereon by law. A company failing
to make such report, or to pay the tax assessed upon its property, shall be immediately assessed, under the direction of the
auditor of the public accounts, by any person appointed by
him for the purpose, rating their real estate and rolling stock
at twenty thousand dollars per mile; and a tax shall at once
be levied on such value at the annual rate levied upon the
value of the other property for the year. Such tax so levied,
as well as the sum required to be paid upon the report hereinbefore mentioned, if the same be not paid at the time provided
herein, shall be collected by the treasurer of some county in
which such company owns property, to whom the auditor
may deliver the assessment or a copy thereof. The treasurer

AIARYE v. BALT. AND OHIO RAILROAD.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

may distrain and sell any personal property of such" company,
and shall pay the taxes into the treasury within three months
from the time of the assessment, or a copy as aforesaid may
be delivered to him. The compensation of such treasurer to
be the same as he receives for collecting other taxes in his
county or corporation."
It is admitted that this is the only legislation of the State
of Virginia under which the tax in question can be justified;
if it does not warrant the proceedings, 'there is no statute
which does. The single question presented in the case is
whether the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, as to the
property on account of which it is sought to be taxed, is liable
to taxation under the provisions of this act.
Mr.R-.A. Ayers, Attorney General of Virginia, for plaintiff in error, submitted on his brief, in which he contended as
follows:
The issue is a very narrow one, and will be presented to the
court in a, few words.
The State of Virginia contends that the facts of this case
do not fall within the principle, now well established by a
continuous line of decisions, that no State has the power of
imposing any burden upon interstate commerce or the instruments by which it is carried on between any other State and
the State imposing the burden. The State of Virginia did
not attempt to impose a tax upon every car or locomotive run
into the State during the year, but assessed for taxation the
property in constant use in the State. There was no hardship
in this; the Company enjoyed the constant protection of the
laws of Virginia for its property, and it was but fair and just
that it should bear its due proportion of the expenses of the
government which extended the protection. The Baltimore
and Ohio Railroad Company does not run its cars from Baltimore under its Maryland charter, but comes to Virginia and
leases lines from Virginia companies, obligates itself to furnish
cars and run trains regularly, the right to do which it derives
only from the franchises of the Virginia corporations.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

The Viiginia corporations hold their franchises upon'the
condition that they perform their duty to the public as common carriers by running trains and furnishing transportation
for both freight and passengers.
All these obligations are assumed, agencies are established
along the line, the necessary trains are put on and run regularly. The same cars and engines may not always be in the
State, but a certain number of engines and cars are always in
the State.
The Company, by coming to Virginia and leasing these
lines of road, and incurring the obligation to operate them
with engines and cars and run regular trains upon them, had
voluntarily changed the situs of so much of its rolling stock
as is in constant use upon the lines in Virginia, and it is therefore liable to taxation to that extent in Virginia.
The decree of the Circuit Court is erroneous, and should be
reversed.
No authorities are cited, because the general principle that
the instruments of interstate commerce are exempt from taxation by any other State than the one in which they have
their situs is well established, and the question involved here
is not whether if the situs of the property is in Baltimore is it
liable to taxation; but is, whether from the facts proved the
situs of the property assessed for taxation is not in the State
of Virginia.
The acts of the General Assembly under which the assessment was made and the collection of the tax bill were printed
with the brief of Xirl.Ayers.
-MrI. flugh F. ShIfy and _Mr. John -. Cowen, (with whom
was .r. Hugh I. Bond, Jr., on the brief,) for defendant in
error, contended as follows in regard to the situs of the property.
The authorities are clear that in the absence of legislation
to the contrary, the situs for taxation of the personal property of a corporation is at its domicile, which is the State of its
creation, and within that State, in the town where it has its

MARYE v. BALT. AND OHIO RAILROAD.

123

Opinion of the Court.

principal office or place of business. Burroughs on Taxation,
186; Orange & _Alexandria Railroad Co. v. Alexandria, 17
Grattan, 176; Philadelphia, WVilmington, & Baltimore -Railroad v. Appeal Tax Court, 50 Maryland, 397, 415; Appeal
Tax Court v. Pullman Palace Car Co., 50 Maryland, 452;
Apeal Tax Court v. NYorthern Central -ailway Co., 50 Maryland, 417; St. Louis v. The Ferry Co., 11 Wall. 425; Hays
v. Pacific Xfail Steamship Co., 17 How. 596; Paii
Railroad Co. v. Cass County, 53 Missouri, 17, 31, 32.
Mm. JusTi. MATrHEws, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is not denied, as it cannot be, that the State of Virginia
has rightful power to levy and collect a tax upon such property used and found within its territorial limits, as this property was used and found, if and whenever it may choose, by
apt legislation, to exert its authority over the subject. It is
quite true, as the situs of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
Company is in the State of Maryland, that also, upon general
principles, is the situs of all its personal property; but for
purposes of taxation, as well as for other purposes, that situs
may be fixed in whatever locality the property may be
brought and used by its owner by the law of the*place where
it is found. If the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
is permitted by the State of Virginia to bring into its territory
and there habitually to use and employ a portion of its movable personal property, and the railroad company chooses so
to do, it would certainly be competent and legitimate for the
State to impose upon such property, thus used and employed,
its fair share of the burdens of taxation imposed upon other
similar property used in the like way by its own citizens.
And such a tax might be properly assessed and collected in
cases like the present where the specific and individual items
of property so used and employed were not continuously the
same, but were constantly changing, according to the exigencies of the business. In such cases the tax might be fixed by
an appraisement and valuation of the average amount of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

property thus habitually used, and collected by distraint upon
any portion that might at any time be found. Of course, the
lawfulness of a tax upon vehicles of transportation used by
common carriers might have to be considered "n particular
instances with reference to its operation as a regulation of
commerce among the States, but the mere fact that they were
employed as vehicles of transportation in the interchange of
interstate commerce would not render their taxation invalid.
No question on that account arises in this case.
But looking at the statute under which the proceeding in
question has been taken for the taxation of this property, we
think it quite clear that it has no application to the rolling
stock owned by the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company
employed by it in the manner described in'the operation of
other railroads in Virginia. The terms of the act, indeed, include
"every railroad'and canal company not exempted from taxation by virtue of its charter," but that language, according
to a general rule of interpretation, must be confined to corporations deriving their authority from the laws of Virginia. It
is apparent, also, from the other expressions contained in the
law, as well as its whole purview, that it was intended to
apply only to such domestic corporations, as in the case of
railroad companies, were the owners of railroads and the property usually appurtenant thereto, lying and being within the
State. According to the description of the act, the railroad
company is supposed to own a roadway and track, and depots,
depot grounds, station buildings and fixtures, and machine
shops, together with real estate, rolling stock, and telegraph
lines. Every such company is required to report its gross and
net receipts, and a specific provision is made that if its road is
only in part within the Commonwealth the report shall show
what part is so, and what proportion the same bears to its
entire length, apportioning the receipts accordingly. In case
of a failure of the company to make such a report, or to pay
the tax assessed upon its property, it is provided that it shall
be immediately assessed under the direction of the auditor of
public accounts by some person appointed by him for that
purpose, rating its real estate and rolling stock at $20,000 per

UNITED STATES v. IRWIN.
Syllabus.

mile, on which a tax shall be levied at the annual rate levied
upon the value of other property for the year. None of these
provisions are applicable to the case of the Baltimore and Ohio
Railroad Company in respect to its ownership of the rolling
stock in question.
It follows from this that it was not liable for the payment
of the taxes, the collection of which was enjoined by the decree of the Circuit Court. That decree is accordingly

Aflrmd.

UNITED STATES v. IRWIN.
UNITED STATES v. PERRY.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Tos. 1384,1385. Submitted April 2,1888.-Decided April 23, 1888

A statute entitled "An act referring to the Court or Claims," etc., "for examination and report," and enacting that "the claims" " be, and the
same are hereby, referred to the Court of Claims for adjudication according to law, on the proofs heretofore presented, and such other
proofs as may be adduced, and report the same to Congress" confers
upon that court full jurisdiction to proceed to final judgment, as in the
exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction.
A statute conferring upon the Court of Claims power to consider and render judgment for claims "for property claimed to have been taken and
impressed into the service of the United States in the year 1857 by orders
of Colonel Albert Sidney Johnston in command of the Utah expedition,
as well as for property alleged to have been sold to the government"
does not authorize that court to consider and give judgment for losses
consequent upon the refusal of Colonel Johnston to permit the trains of
the claimant to proceed upon their journey, arising from the mere detention and delay occasioned thereby.
It appearing from the findings of the court below that "plaintiff's animals
were often used to aid in hauling government trains; and thus did extra
-work on insufficient food;" and this being a possible ground for recovery to some extent for property taken and impressed into the service of
the United States; and it not appearing in the findings what amount is
properly allowable therefor, the case is remanded for further proofs and
findings in that respect.

