OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Syllabus.

case, it cannot be seen from a comparison of the two patents
that the original specification indicated that what is covered by
the first claim of the reissue was intended to have been secured
by the original.
In the present case, also, the reissue was not applied for
until nearly eight years after the original patent was granted,
and the reissue was taken with the manifest intention of covering, by an enlarged claim, structures which in the meantime
had gone into extensive public use, and which were not covered by any claim of the original patent.
Infringement is alleged only of claims 1 and 3 of the reissue. As to the casing C of the third claim, it cannot, any
more than the casing C of the first claim, be held to cover
a casing which has the independent up-and-down motion
referred to. Such casing must be construed to be the casing
exhibited in the drawing annexed to the original patent, that
is, one in which the up-and-down play is restricted by the
overlapping bead or flange. On any other construction, claim
3 is an unlawful expansion, in regard to the casing, of what is
found in the original patent. In addition to this, if the casing of claim 3 is only a casing which has no end play, it isanticipated by what is shown in letters patent No. 19,206,
granted to Race and Mathews, January 26, 1858, which patent
was the subject of the decision of this court in Mathews v.
.Machine Co., 105 U. S. 54.
The decree of the Circuit Court is a'ffrmed.

ARTHUR'S EXECUTORS v. VIETOR.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 268. Argued May 2,3,1888. -Decided

May 14,1888.

Hosiery, composed of wool and cotton, was imported in 1873. The collector assessed the duties at 35 per cent ad valorem, and 50 cents a
pound, less 10 per cent, under § 2 of the act of March 2d, 1867, c.

ARTHUR v. VIETOR.
Opinion of the Court.
197, 14 Stat. 561, as manufactures made in part of wool, " not herein
otherwise provided for." The importer claimed that the goods were
dutiable under § 22 of the act of March 2, 1861, c. 68, 12 Stat. 191,
and § 13 of the act of July 14, 1862, c. 163, 12 Stat. 556, as stockings made on frames, worn by men, women, and children, at 35 per cent
ad valorem, less 10 per cent. In a suit to recover back the excess of
duties, the court directed a verdict for the importer: Held, that this
was error, because the hosiery was not otherwise provided for in the act
of 1867, and was a manufacture made in part of wool.
The case of Vietor v. Arthur, 104 U. S. 498, commented on, and explained,
and distinguished.

Tins action was commenced by the defendants in error as
plaintiffs in the court below, to recover an excess of duties
alleged to have been paid under protest on an importation of
hosiery into the port of New York. Trial and verdict for the
plaintiffs under direction of the court, and judgment on the
verdict. The defendant sued out this writ of error. The case
is stated in the opinion.
-Mr. Solicitor General for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Stephen G. Olarke for defendants in error.
MiR. JUSTICe. BL"TCHFoRD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action at law, commenced in the Superior Court
of the city of New York, by Frederick Vietor, George F. Vietor,
Carl Vietor, Thomas Vietor, Jr., and Fritz Achelis, against
Chester A. Arthur, collector of the port of New York, to recover
an alleged excess of duties paid under protest on goods entered
at the custom house in New York, from April, 1873, to November, 1873, prior to the enactment of the Revised Statutes.
The goods were hosiery. The appraiser returned the hosiery in some cases as "knit goods, wool hosiery, over 80, 50,
35, less 10 per cent ;" in other cases as "worsted knit goods,"
etc. The collector liquidated the duties on the hosiery at the
rate of 35 per cent ad valorem and 50 cents a pound, less a
deduction of ten per cent. The plaintiffs protested in writing
against the liquidation, "because said merchandise, being
merino hosiery, and similar articles made on frames, not other-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

wise provided for, is only liable to duty under the 22d section
of the tariff act of March 2d, 1861, and the 13th section of the
tariff act of July 16th, 1862, at the rate of 35 per centum ad
valorem, less 10 per cent under the 2d section of the act of
June 6th, 1872, as manufactures wholly or in part of wool,
or hair of the alpaca, goat, or other like animal."
All of the goods involved contained from 10 to 20 per cent
of either wool or worsted, the other component material being
cotton. The wool or worsted formed an appreciable portion
of the value of the goods. There is nothing in the case to
show the value of, or the amount of duties assessed on, the
wool and cotton goods, as distinguished from the worsted and
cotton goods.
The plaintiffs offered evidence tending to show that the
articles imported by them, similar to samples introduced by
them in evidence, were stockings, were worn by men, women,
and children, and were made on frames. The plaintiffs
claimed that the goods were dutiable under § 22 of the act of
March 2, 1861, c. 68, 12 Stat. 191, under a provision imposing a duty of 30 per cent on "caps, gloves, leggins, mits, socks,
stockings, wove shirts and drawers, and all similar articles
made on frames, of whatever material composed, worn by
men, women, or children, and not otherwise provided for;"
and § 13 of the act of July 14, 1862, c. 163, 12 Stat. 556,
which imposed, from and after the 1st of August, 1862, an
additional duty of five per cent ad valorem on "caps, gloves,
leggins, mits, socks, stockings, wove shirts and drawers, and
all similar articles made on frames, of whatever material composed, worn by men, women, and children, and not otherwise
provided for;" and the provision of § 2 of the act of June 6,
1872, c. 315, 17 Stat. 231, which enacts that after the 1st, of
August, 1872, in lieu of the duties imposed by law upon the
articles enumerated in that section, there should be paid 90
per cent of the several rates of duty then imposed by law
upon such articles severally, "it being the intent of this section
to reduce existing duties on said articles ten per centum of
such duties, that is to say. . . . On all wools, hair of the
alpaca, goat, and other animals, and all manufactures wholly

ARTHUR v. VIETOR.
Opinion of the Court.

or in part of wool or hair of the alpaca, and other like animals, except as hereinafter provided."
The duties levied by the collector, and claimed by the defendant at the trial to have been the proper rate of duty, were
assessed under § 2 of the act of March 2, 1867, c. 197, 14 Stat.
561, which imposed the following duties: "On woollen cloths,
woollen shawls, and all manufactures of wool of every description made wholly or in part of wool, not herein otherwise
provided for, fifty cents per pound, and, in addition thereto,
thirty-five per centum ad valorem. On flannels, blankets,
hats of wool, knit goods, balmorals, woollen and worsted yarns,
and all manufactures of every description composed wholly or
in part of worsted, the hair of the alpaca, goat, or other like
animals, except such as are composed in part of wool, not
otherwise provided for, valued at not exceeding forty cents
per pound, twenty cents per pound; valued at above forty
cents per pound and not exceeding sixty cents per pound,
thirty cents per pound; valued at above sixty cents per pound
and not exceeding eighty cents per pound, forty cents per
pound; valued at above eighty cents per pound, fifty cents
per pound; and, in addition thereto, upon all the above named
articles, thirty-five per centum ad valorem."
At the trial, after the plaintiffs had rested, the defendant
offered evidence tending to show that knit goods are textile
fabrics composed of a single thread united in a series of loops,
corresponding to the old-fashioned hand-knitting process, and
that the plaintiffs' importations were so made; and, further,
that all fabrics made on frames are knit goods. The defendant then rested. The plaintiffs then offered evidence tending
to show that the term "knit goods" used in trade and commerce has no different or other meaning than its meaning
among men in general; that there are knit goods known to
trade and commerce which were not made on frames, but
which were made by hand, and that there are other goods, as
caps, gloves, leggins, mits, socks, stockings, and drawers, made
in whole or in part of worsted, worn by men, women, and children, which are made on a frame and knit, and which are also
knit by hand; that, while the result of knitting by hand, and

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

of the manufacture on a frame of a fabric consisting of a single
thread, is the production of a textile fabric composed of a series
of connecting loops which are alike in each case, yet the processes by which they are produced are dissimilar; that the result of the process of manufacturing upon frames and knitting
by hand is the same, although the two processes are dissimilar;
also, that there are no textile fabrics made on frames which
are known in trade and commerce, except fabrics composed of
cotton, wool or worsted, silk, linen, or a mixture of these materials. Both parties then rested.
The plaintiffs then moved the court to direct the jury to find
a verdict in their favor, which motion was granted. To such
ruling the defendant excepted. The jury found a verdict for
the plaintiffs. The amount was, by agreement of the parties,
adjusted at the custom house, and a judgment was entered for
the plaintiffs, including costs, for $1897.96, to review which
the defendant has brought a writ of error.
We think that it was error in the court to have directed a
verdict for the plaintiffs. The act of 1867 is entitled "An Act
to provide increased Revenue from imported Wool, and for
other Purposes." Section 1 of the act relates to duties on
"unmanufactured wool, hair of the alpaca, goat, and other
like animals, imported from foreign countries." Section 2 provides for the following duty: "On woollen cloths, woollen
shawls, and all manufactures of wool of every description
made wholly or in part of wool, not herein otherwise provided
for, fifty cents per pound, and, in addition thereto, thirty-five
per centum ad valorem." This clause clearly covers stockings
such as some of those in the present case, composed of wool
and cotton, because they were made in part of wool.
The next question is, whether they were "herein otherwise
provided for," that is, otherwise provided for in that act of
1867. We have recently held, in the case of Arthur v. Butterfgeld, 125 U. S. 70, 76, that the words "not otherwise herein
provided for," in an act providing for customs duties, mean,
not otherwise provided for in the act of which they are a part.
The words in the present case are "not herein otherwise provided for," which are identical in meaning. Section 2 of the

ARTHUR v. VIETOR.
Opinion of the Court.

act of 1867 goes on to provide for duties on many manufactured articles made wholly or in part of wool, namely, "women's and children's dress goods and real or imitation Italian
cloths, composed wholly or in part of wool;" "clothing ready
made, and wearing apparel of every description, and balmoral
skirts and skirting, and goods of similar description or used
for like purposes, composed wholly or in part of wool;"
"webbings, beltings," etc., made of wool, or of which wool is
a component material; and carpets of various kinds and carpetings of wool.
The clause of § 2 of the act of 1867, above quoted, which
covers "knit goods," expressly excepts "such as are composed
in part of wool :" and. the clause relating to duties on "wearing apparel of every description .. . . composed wholly or
in part of wool," made up or manufactured wholly or in part
by the manufacturer, expressly excepts "knit goods." It is
stated in the bill of exceptions that the stockings in question
were made on frames, and that all fabrics made on frames are
knit goods.
According to the bill of exceptions, some of the goods in
question here were properly assessed by the collector, under
the act of 1867, at the rate of 50 cents a pound and 35 per
cent ad valorem, less ten per cent, and it was improper to
direct a verdict for the plaintiffs as to those goods. After the
verdict was rendered, on the 10th of December, 1883, and
before judgment, the defendant made a motion for a new
trial, the decision on which is reported in 22 Blatchford, 39.
The motion was denied, on the ground that the articles in
question, as stockings made on frames, were specifically made
dutiable by that name in the acts of 1861 and 1862, and had
been dutiable eo nomimne, by different enactments, since 1842;
and that the general language of the ict of 1867 did not
affect the specific description in the acts of 1861 and 1862.
Particular reference was made in the decision to the opinion
of this court in Tietor v. Arthur, 104 U. S. 498. The
goods in that case were imported after the enactment of the
Revised Statutes, on the 22d of June, 1874, and were stockings, some of them wholly of worsted and others of cotton
VOL. c=-xvi-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

and worsted, cotton being the material of chief value, and they
were intended to be worn by men, women, and children, and
were made on frames, and were also knit goods. The collector had exacted upon them a duty at the rate of 90 per cent
of 50 cents a pound and 35 per cent ad valorem, as knit goods,
under Schedule L of § 2504 of the Revised Statutes. The
importer claimed that they were dutiable as stockings made
on frames, worn by men, women, or children, under Schedule
M of the same section. Judgment having been entered for
the defendant, this court reversed it, on the ground that, as
between the descriptions in the two schedules in the same section of the Revised Statutes, the goods must be considered as
having been provided for under the desigmation of stockings
made on frames, worn by men, women, or children, in Schedule X, and as not being liable to the higher duty prescribed
by Schedule L, because, although Schedule L was broad
enough to comprehend them, yet, as Schedule Xl covered them
by a specific designation, and they had been dutiable as stockings made on frames, eo nomine, since 1842, and by four
different enactments, they fell within Schedule i.
That
decision does not apply to the present case, for here the only
question is whether the stockings, so far as they have wool in
them, being manufactures made in part of wool, and dutiable
as such by the act of 1867, were otherwise provided for in
that act. It is clear that they were not.
Inasmuch as the verdict directed covered the stockings
which contained wool and cotton, and the judgment is a unit,
and the direction of a verdict was wrong as to those goods,
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded to the
Circuit Court with a direction to grant a new trial.

