MORGAN v. EGGERS.
Statement of the Case.

MORGAN v. EGGERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
No. 200.

Argued April 2,188.-Decided April 16, 1888.

Plaintiffs' complaint in ejectment sought to recover "all the north part of
lot 2, in section 36, township 38 N. of range 10 .of the second principal
meridian, which lies west of the track of the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern Railroad, and north of a line parallel -with the north line of
said lot 2, and 753 feet south therefrom." Defendant denied every allegation. The record showed that after the parties had submitted the
cause to the court, "the court, having heard the evidence, and being
fully advised, finds for the plaintiffs, and orders and adjudges that they
are entitled to and shall have and recover of the defendant the possession
of so much of said lot 2 as lies south of the south line of lot number 1,
as indicated by a fence constructed and maintained by the defendant as
and on said south line . . . which the plaintiffs shall recover of the
defendant." Held,
(1) That though the order embraced both a finding and a judgment, it
was not for that reason a nullity;
(2) That it was not a general finding for the plaintiffs, but a finding for
them as to the part of the land described in the order, and that
the judgment for the possession of this part of the premises was
in accordance with the local law of the district in which the cause
was tried, Rev. Stat. Indiana, 1881, ยง 1060;
(3) That this court is bound to assume from the record that the tract
described in the order was a part of the premises described in the
complaint.

THE case as stated by the court was as follows:
This is an action of ejectment. The complaint, framed in
accordance with the local law, describes the premises sought
to be recovered as follows : "All of the north part of lot two,
in section thirty-six, township thirty-eight north, of range ten
west, of the second principal meridian, which lies west of the
track of the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railroad, and
north of a line parallel with the north line of said lot two, and
seven hundred and fifty-three feet south therefrom." The
answer contains a denial of each allegation in the complaint.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

On the 20th of January, 1883, during the November Term
of the court below, the following proceedings were had:
"Come the parties, by counsel, and by agreement this cause
is submitted to the court for trial, and the court having heard
the evidence, and being fully advised, finds for the plaintiffs,
and orders and adjudges that they are entitled to and shall
have and recover of defendant the possession of so much of
said lot two as lies south of the south line of lot number one,
as indicated by a fence constructed and maintained by the
defendant as and on said south line, said fence running from.
the state line easterly to Lake Michigan, and assess the damages at $1.00 and costs, taxed at $, which the plaintiffs
shall recover of defendant.
"All of which is finally ordered, adjudged, and decreed."
During the same term, February 5, 1883, the plaintiffs
moved that the decision and finding be set aside and annulled,
and a new trial granted, for the following reasons: 1. They
were contrary to the law and the evidence. 2. The plaintiffs
were surprised by a case falsely made by the defendant at the
trial, which they had no reason to expect, and therefore did
not come prepared to answer at the trial, namely, by his claim,
supported only by the testimony of his son, that Jacob
Forsyth and the surveyor, Wait, pointed out and agreed upon
the line occupied by the fenc6 of defendant mentioned in said
decision as the true line of said Eggers' land; by his claim,
supported by his testimony alone, that George W. Clarke
agreed with him that the line occupied by said fence was the
line between his and said Clarke's land; by his claim, supported by his own testimony and that of his son only, that a
fence had been maintained on the line occupied by the fence,
in said decision mentioned, for more than twenty years last
past; and by his claim, supported by the testimony of his
son only, that for twenty years past he had occupied all the
land as far south as said fence. 3. The court admitted evidence
for the defendant against the objection of plaintiffs, and the
decision of the court was based on such irrelevant evidence.
On the 6th of March, 1883, the following order was made:
"Came the parties by counsel, and the court being fully

MORGAN v. EGGERS.
Opinion of the Court.

advised, now overrules plaintiffs' motion for a new trial; to
which the plaintiffs except, and the court allows plaintiffs
thirty days in which to file bill of exceptions." No bill of
exceptions, showing what occurred at the trial, was filed.
On the 23d of April, 1884, the plaintiffs moved the court,
upon written grounds filed, to amend and reform the judgment
of January 20, 1883, so that it "shall conform to the complaint
in said cause, and to the finding or verdict of the court
rendered upon the trial in said cause."
At a subsequent term of the court, June 27, 1884, the motion
to amend and reform the judgment of the court, was overruled. To that ruling the plaintiffs excepted, and took a bill
of exceptions embodying only the motion to amend and reform
the judgment, the order overruling that motion, and the
opinion of the court thereon. The court, among other things,
said: "It was competent for the court, under the issue, to find
to what extent the defendant was guilty or had held unlawful
possession of the premises described; and, if under the evidence
it appeared that a fence had become or was the boundary of
such occupation, it was proper that the fact should be stated
in the finding and judgment of the court. The finding and
judgment in this instance are not separate and distinct, as
perhaps it would have been better to have bad them. The
meaning, however, is clear. It is as if the entry read in this
way: And the court, having heard the evidence, etc., finds
and orders and adjudges that the plaintiffs are entitled to and
shall have and recover of the defendants, etc."
The errors assigned upon the record are, that the judgment
does not pursue the issue and finding thereon rendered and
entered of record as the law directs and requires, and that the
court erred in refusing to amend and reform the judgment.
.Xr. EaclwctZ Roby for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. WIlliam -H.Calkin for defendant in error.
Mhlis was with him on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE

xHnAnA, after stating the facts in the above

language, delivered the opinion of the court.
VOL.

JXXVH-5

XrM.A. C.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

More than a year elapsed after the refusal of the court to
grant a new trial before the motion to amend and reform the
judgment was made. If the court had authority to entertain
that motion after the expiration of the term at which the
judgment was entered, it was properly denied. :By the local
statute, applicable to the case, the plaintiffs were entitled to
recover against the defendants, or either of them, the whole
of the premises in controversy, or any part thereof, or any
interest therein, according.to the rights of the parties. Revised
Statutes of Indiana, 1881, ยง 1060; Revised Statutes of the
United States, ยง 911. The plaintiffs contend that there was,
in effect, a general finding for them, as to all the land in dispute, and that the judgment should have been in their favor
for the whole of the premises described in the complaint. But
the record, fairly interpreted, does not show any such finding.
The order of January 20, 1883, embraces both a finding and
a judgment. But they are not, for that reason, nullities.
O'Reilly v. Canpbell, 116 U. S. 418, 420. That order plainly
indicates a general finding for the plaintiffs only as to a part
of the land in controversy, that is, as to the part described in
the order. The judgment is for the recovery only of the
possession of the premises so described. Such a judgment was
proper, if the plaintiffs failed to show title to the remaining
part of the premises in dispute. As there was no special finding of facts bearing upon the question of title, we must
assume that the evidence authorized the finding as to the
particular premises .awarded to the plaintiffs. They cannot
complain that judgment was not rendered in their favor for
the part not shown to belong to them.
It was said in argument that the judgment was for land not
embraced in the description given in the complaint; that the
plaintiffs got a judgment for land not sued for. But this cannot be made to distinctly appear from a comparison of the
description in the complaint with the description in the
judgment, of the premises recovered.
if the description, in the judgment, of the land recovered
was not sufficiently full or accurate, it was in the power of the
plaintiffs, at the time the finding was made, or during the same

PAGE v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

term, to procure such a reformation of the judgment as would
have been proper. Instead of pursuing that course, they
preferred to claim - contrary to what, it seems to us, was the
manifest purpose of the court - that there was a general finding, without qualification, in their behalf, which should have
been followed by a judgment for the whole land. As, however, the finding was in fact and in legal effect, for only a.
part of the premises in dispute, and as we are bound to assume,
from the record, that that part is embraced in the description
given in the complaint, the judgment must be

PAGE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIDS.
No. 1387. Submitted April 2, 1888.

Decided April 16, 1888.

Under ยง 51 of the Revised Statutes, a person elected a representative i
Congress, to fill a vacancy, caused by a resolution of the House that the
sitting member was not elected and that the seat was vacant, the sitting
member having received the proper credentials, and been placed on the
roll, and been sworn in, and taken his seat, and voted, and served on
committees and drawn his salary and mileage, is entitled to compensation only from the time the compensation of such sitting member
ceased.

TIE case is stated in the opinion.
fr. Allan Rutherford for claimant.
-Yr. Attaney General and _Y. Heber
Mr. JUSTICE

BLATCHFORD

-May for appellee.

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an appeal by the claimant from a judgment of the
Court of Claims, dismissing his petition, on the following facts
found by that court: An election was held on the 4th of
November, 1884, in the Second Congressional District of
Rhode Island, for the purpose of electing by the people a,

