OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

then, according to the theory of the order, the bill of complaint should be dismissed. But, even assuming the right of
the court to make the order, as well as its validity, the circumstances under which the bill of complaint is to be dismissed or
the relief granted to thb complainants named therein, and the
sum to be paid, are matters which are yet to be determined,
which may turn out either one way or the other, and which,
when ascertained, will be the foundation for a final decree.
There is no final decree as the matter now stands.
The a'ppeal is therefore dismissed and the case remanded to
the Circuit Courtforfurtherproceedings.

DE SAUSSURE v. GAILLARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 205. Argued and Submitted April 4, 1888.- Decided April 30,1888.
It appearing that, before reaching and deciding the federal question discussed here, the Supreme Court of South Carolina had already decided
that the plaintiff's action could not be sustained according to the meaning
of the provisions of the statute of that State under which it was brought,
this court dismisses the writ of error for want of jurisdiction, under
the well settled rule that, to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of
error to a state court. it must appear affirmatively not only that a federal
question was presented for decision to the highest court of the State
having jurisdiction, but that its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it 'was actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could not have been given without deciding it.
When a State grants a right of remedy against itself, or against its officers
in a case in which the proceeding is in fact against the State, it may
attach whatever limitations and conditions it chooses to the remedy; and
its own interpretation and application of its statutes on that subject,
given by its own judicial tribunals, are conclusive upon the parties seeking the benefits of them.

Tim court stated the case as follows:
The complaint in this case ified in the Court of Common
Pleas in the County of Charleston, South Carolina, alleged

DE SAUSSURE v. GAILLARD.
Statement of the Case.

that the plaintiff was the owner and holder of three bonds of
the State of South Carolina, two designated by the numbers
850 and 851, for $500 each, and one by the number 2290, for
$1000; that thereby the State of South Carolina promised to
pay to the bearers the sums therein named on the 1st day of
July, 1893, with interest at the rate of six per cent per annum
payable semi-annually, on the 1st day of January and July of
each year, on the presentation of the proper coupons thereto
annexed bearing the signature of the State Treasurer, said
coupons being receivable in payment of a11 taxes due the State
during the year in which they mature, except for the tax
levied for the public schools, the words following being indorsed on each of the said bonds, viz.: "The payment of the
interest and the redemption of the principal of this bond is
secured by the levy of an annual tax of two mills upon the
entire taxable property of the State. The faith, credit, and
funds of the State are hereby solemnly pledged for the punctual payment of the interest and redemption of the principal
of this bond by the act of the General Assembly approved December 22d, 1873;" and upon each of said coupons was indorsed the following: "State of South Carolina. Receivable
in payment of all taxes except school tax;" that the plaintiff
became the holder for value of the three bonds mentioned in
the year 1878, and of all the coupons thereto annexed, including the coupon which matured on each, respectively, on the
1st day of January, 1882; that notwithstanding the contract
of the State expressed in the act of December 22, 1873, recited
in said consolidation bonds, the General Assembly of South
Carolina, by an act entitled "An act to raise supplies and
make appropriations for the fiscal year commencing 1November 1st, 1881," approved February 9, 1882, has prohibited the
county treasurerg of the State from receiving the coupons of
said bonds in payment of the taxes levied by the said act,
which last mentioned act the plaintiff charges to be void as
repugnant to article 1, section 10, of the Constitution of the
United States, forbidding the States to pass any law impairing
the obligation of contracts.
The complaint further alleges that the defendant is the

OCTOBER TERIN,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

county treasurer for Charleston County, whose duty it is to
collect and receive the taxes due to the State of South Carolina upon the property situate in that county; that the plaintiff is the owner of property in said county upon which taxes
were levied under the provisions of the act to raise supplies
for the fiscal year commencing November 1, 1881, in the sum
of $153.86, of which sum $29.34 were levied by the said act
for the public schools; that on the 18th day of December,
1882, the plaintiff tendered to the defendant, as county treasurer, in payment of said taxes, $131.97 in cash, and the remainder, viz., $60, in the coupons of the said consolidated
bonds N"os. 850, 851 and 2290, which matured on the 1st day
of January, 1882; that the defendant wrongfully and illegally
refused to receive the said coupons, and assigned as a reason
therefor that he was forbidden so to do by the provisions of
the said act; whereupon the plaintiff paid to the defendant,
under protest, the sum of $191.97 in legal tender notes of the
United States, in pursuance of the provisions of an act of the
General Assembly of said State, approved the 24th of December, 1878, entitled "An act to facilitate the collection of
taxes."
Plaintiff therefore demands judgment "that it be adjudged
that the amount of sixty dollars in United States currency
paid by the plaintiff to the defendant on the eighteenth day
of December, 1882, was wrongfully and illegally collected and
ought to be refunded, and that a certificate of record thereof
be issued accordingly to the plaintiff; that he have such further relief in the premises as the nature of the case may
require and to the court may seem meet and proper."
The answer of the defendant set forth the history of the
legislation of the State of South Carolina on the subject subsequent to the passage of the act of December 22, 1873, known
as the consolidation act as follows:
"II. Defendant, further answering, alleges that subsequent
to the passage of said act the General Assembly of the said State,
by a ' Joint resolution to raise a commission to investigate the
indebtedness of the State,' approved June 8, 1877, provided a
commission to make a complete and thorough investigation of

DE SAUSSURE v. GAILLARD.
Statement of the Case.

the entire amount of consolidated bonds and certificates of
stock which had been issued under the 'consolidation act'
aforesaid, and of the bonds, coupons, and certificates of stock
which had been surrendered to the state treasurer in exchange
for the consolidated bonds and certificates of stock issued
under said act, and to report to the General Assembly any
illegality or non-conformity to law in the issue of consolidated bonds and certificates of stock, and the grounds of the
same, which commission is known as the 'bond commission.'
"That the said commission made a report to the General
Assembly of the result of the investigation made by them
under the joint resolution aforesaid, with schedules annexed
showing the different classes of bonds and certificates of stock
which had been surrendered in exchange for consolidated bonds
and certificates of stock, Schedule 6 showing the consolidated
bonds and certificates of stock which, in the judgment of the
said commission, were not issued in accordance with law and
were not authorized to be consolidated under the 'consolidation act.'
"And thereupon the General Assembly, by a ' Joint resolution providing a mode of ascertaining the debt of the State
and of liquidating the same,' approved March 22, 1878, created
a special court, known as the ' court of claims,' to hear and
determine any case or cases made up or brought to test the
validity of any of the consolidated bonds or certificates of
stock or of any of the various classes of bonds or certificates
of stock mentioned in the said report of the ' bond commission'
as not issued in accordance with law.
"It was further provided by the joint resolution aforesaid
that there should be the same right of appeal from the said
' court of claims' to the Supreme Court of South Carolina as
from the Circuit Courts of the said State, and with a right of
appeal by writ of error or otherwise as provided by law to
the Supreme Court of the United States.
"That said special court should have the same right to enter
judgment, issue execution, punish for contempt, and enforce its
mandates as was then possessed by the Circuit Courts of the
State of South Carolina.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

"That the State should be represented in said special court
by the attorney general and two associate counsel to be selected
by the joint vote of the General Assembly.
"That the attorney general and his associates, with the consent of the creditors of the State, or so many of them as shall
be necessary, might make up a case or cases to be heard and
determined in said court, in which, if practicable, the State
should be the defendant, to test the validity of the said consolidated bonds, coupons, and certificates of stock mentioned
in Schedule 6 of the report of the ' bond commission,' bringing
before the court the various classes of vouchers which it is
stated in the said report impair the validity of the said consolidated bonds, coupons, or certificates of stock or any of
them.
"The said joint resolution further provided for the levy for
'the current year of a tax sufficient to pay the coupons and
interest orders maturing on the outstanding consolidated bonds
and certificates of stock during the said fiscal year, the interest on the consolidated bonds and certificates of stock mentioned in Schedule 5 of the report of the 'bond commission'
as subject to no valid objection to be paid, and the payment
of the interest on the several classes of consolidated bonds and
certificates of stock mentioned in Schedule 6 of said report
whenever there should be a final adjudication as to the validity of the several classes of bonds and stocks in the manner
therein provided, and none other.
"That in pursuance of the provisions of the said joint resolution, actions in which the State of South Carolina was the
defendant were, with the consent of the attorney general and
his associates, brought in the said ' court of claims' on coupons
of the bonds of the various classes mentioned in Schedule 6 of
the report of the ' bond commission.'
"That after trial and hearing of the said causes, the said
'court of claims' rendered judgment in favor of the State.
"From the judgments of the ' court of claims,' in these several cases, appeals were taken to the Supreme Court of the
State of South Carolina, as provided in the joint resolution
establishing the said ' court of claims.'

DE SAUSSURE v. GAILLARD.
Statement of the Case.

"That upon the hearing of the said appeals the Supreme
Court of the State of South Carolina, at the April term, 1879, in
the cases entitled ' G. 21!. Valker, Cashier,Appellantv. The State
of South Caroliu, Respondent' and 'F. J .Pelzer,Appellant
v. T4e State of South Carolina, 1?espondent,' decreed and
adjudged.:

"First. That all the bonds issued under the ' consolidation
act' are valid obligations of the State of South Carolina,
except as follows:
"1st. Such as were issued in exchange for bonds issued
under the act entitled I An act to authorize a loan for the relief of the treasury,' approved February 17, 1869, or for the
coupons of such bonds, the said act being repugnant to ยง '[,
article IX, of the constitution of the State of South Carolina,
in that it purports to create a debt which was not 'for the
purpose of defraying extraordinary expenditures,' and the
debt sought to be created not being ' for some single object,'
and such object not being 'distinctly specified therein,' as
required by the said section and article of the constitution.
"2d. Such as were issued in exchange for the second issue
of bonds under an act entitled 'An act to authorize a state
loan to pay interest on the public debt,' and which were
indorsed 'issued under act approved August 26, 1868,' or the
coupons of such bonds, the said bonds and coupons being absolutely void, even in the hands of bona fide holders, because
issued without any authority whatever.
"3d. Such as were issued in exchange for those conversion
bonds which were issued in exchange for either of the bonds
or coupons of the two classes mentioned.
"Second. That if any consolidated bond rests wholly upon
any of the three objectionable classes of bonds therein mentioned, then it is wholly void ; but if it rests only in part
upon such objectionable bonds and coupons, then it is void
only to the extent which it does rest upon such objectionable
bonds or coupons, and for the balance it is a valid obligation
of the State.
"Third. That the burden of proof is upon the State to
show that any particular bond which may be brought into

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

question does rest either in whole or in part upon such objectionable bonds and coupons, and if in part only. then the
State must show what part is so affected.
"III. Defendant further alleges that by an act entitled '_An
act to provide for the settlement of the consolidated debt of
the State in accordance with the decision of the Supreme
Court of the State of South Carolina,' approved December 23,
1879, after reciting the legislation and the decision of the
Supreme Court of the State of South Carolina in relation to
the consolidated debt of the State hereinbefore set forth, and
that it is to the interest of the State and her creditors that the
principles established in the said decision of the Supreme
Court should be accepted as final and forthwith applied in the
elimination from the consolidated debt of the State of all invalid material, a special commissioner was appointed to ascertain and establish the exact percentage and amount of the
invalidity of each and every consolidated bond and certificate
of stock of the state consolidated debt and of the interest
thereon in accordance with the principles laid down in the
said decision of the Supreme Court of the State.
"And it was therein further provided that the said special
commissioner should, at least once in each month during
the period of said ascertainment, make a detailed report to
the state treasurer, setting forth therein by their numbers the
consolidated bonds, coupons, certificates of stock, and interest orders investigated by him during the previous month;
also whether the same, under the decision of the Supreme
Court aforesaid, be wholly valid or only partially valid, and
where only partially valid in each case he should also set
forth the exact percentage, amount, and character of the invalidity; that he should continue to make such detailed reports
to the state treasurer until he should have investigated and
reported upon the entire consolidated debt of the State.
"It was further therein provided that every holder of any
consolidated bond or certificate of stock, or of the interest
thereon reported by said special commissioner as partially
invalid, shall have the right to surrender to the state treasurer
for cancellation such bonds, certificates of stock, and interest;

DE SAUSSURE v. GAILLARD.
Statement of the Case.

and upon such surrender and cancellation he shall be entitled
to receive from the state treasurer, who is authorized and
required to issue the same, a new bond or certificate of stock
equal in amount to the exact amount of the valid portion of
such bond, certificate of stock, coupon, or interest order; such
new bonds and certificates of stock to be in all respects similar
and of like validity to and having the same benefits and privileges as those provided for in the ' consolidation act,' approved
22d December, 1873, saving and except that the first coupon
or interest to mature thereon shall mature on. the 1st of January, 1879, and the same rights and privileges are likewise
given to the holders of detached coupons and interest orders.
"And it was further thereby declared ' that the bonds and
stocks reported by the special commissioner as valid, and the
portions of the bonds and stocks also reported by him as
valid, but exchanged by their holders, as hereinbefore provided, for new consolidated bonds or stocks, are hereby declared to be valid and unquestioned obligations of the State.'
(And the bonds and stocks so declared to be unquestionable
obligations of the State are designated and known as ' brown
consols.')
"That the special commissioner appointed under the act
aforesaid did perform the duties required of him by said act,
and did make to the state treasurer from time to time the
report of his investigations until he had investigated and
reported upon the entire consolidated debt of the State, as
required by the said act, which reports of the said special
commissioner remain in the office of the state treasurer.
"That by an act entitled IAn act to extend the time for
funding the unquestionable debt of the State,' approved
December 24, 1880, the comptroller general of the State is
required to examine into the character and material of all
consolidated bonds and certificates of stock of the State
issued since the first day of January, 1866, together with the
coupons and interest orders thereon, which may be presented
to him for this purpose by the holders thereof, and to report
to the state treasurer how the said bonds, certificates of
stock, coupons, and interest orders are affected by the decision

OCTOBER TERI,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

of the Supreme Court of the State hereinbefore stated and the
exact percentage of invalidity in the material reported upon
as established by the said decision.
"And the state treasurer is authorized and required, in lien
of the bonds, stocks, coupons, and interest orders so surrendered, to issue consolidated bonds and certificates of stock
for fifty per cent of the face value of the valid material surrendered.
"That the State has since provided for the levy of an
annual tax upon the taxable property of the State and for the
payment by the state treasurer, from the proceeds of said tax,
of the interest on the entire consolidated debt of the State,
ascertained and reported by the special commissioner aforesaid to be valid, in accordance with the decision of the
Supreme Court aforesaid, and also upon such portions of the
same as shall have been ascertained and reported by said
special commissioner to be .valid and justly due by the State
as the same shall appear from the certificates of the said
special commissioner filed in the office of the state treasurer.
"That by joint resolution approved 9th February, 1882, it
was resolved as follows:
"Whereas the consol bonds bear upon their face the contract of the State to receive the coupons of the same for
taxes; and
" Whereas, from the fact that the green consols outstanding
are more or less tainted with invalidity, varying with each
security (which has been established by the courts and acquiesced in by the holder), the coupons from this class of
bonds cannot be received by the tax collector, but can only be
paid at the state treasury where access to the registry permits
the amount of invalidity in each coupon to be ascertained:
Now, therefore, in order to hasten the process now going on
of the conversion of green consols into brown consols, which
latter represent the unquestioned consol debt of the State, and
the coupons from which are now being received in payment
for taxes:
"Be it resolved, That on and after the first day of January,
eighteen hundred and eighty-three, the interest upon the

DE SAUSSURE v. GAILLARD.
Statement of the Case.

green consol bonds and stocks of the State shall not be paid
at the treasury until said securities have been converted into
brown consol bonds and stocks."

The answer then proceeded to set forth the particulars in
which it was claimed that the consolidated bonds described in
the complaint are not valid obligations of the State of South
Carolina, and further alleged "that the holders of the bonds
Nos. 850, 851 and 2290 mentioned in the complaint did not
bring the same before the special ' court of claims,' and that
they have never surrendered the same to the commissioner or
the comptroller general or the state treasurer to ascertain and
establish the exact percentage and amount of the invalidity of
the said bonds in accordance with the principles laid down in
the decision of the Supreme Court of the State of South Carolina aforesaid, as provided by law, and have never received
new consolidated bonds or certificates of stock equal in amount
to the valid portions of said bonds, as provided by law, known
as ' brown consols.'
The answer further alleged that the act entitled "An act to
raise supplies and make appropriations for the fiscal year
commencing November 1, 1881," approved February 9, 1882,
"provides that all taxes assessed and payable under the said
act shall be paid in the following kinds of funds and no other:
Gold and silver coin, United States currency, national bank
notes, and coupons which shall become payable during the
year 1882 on the valid consolidated bonds of the State known
as ' brown consols:' Provided, however, the jury certificates and
the per diem of state witnesses in the circuit courts shall be received for county taxes, not including school taxes;" and the
defendant admitted and justified under the terms of said act
his refusal, as county treasurer of Charleston County, to receive the coupons tendered by the plaintiff in payment of taxes.
The cause came on for trial before a jury, who, under the
instructions of the court to that effect, found a verdict for the
defendant, on which judgment was accordingly rendered. On
appeal to the Supreme Court of the State this judgment was
affirmed. To review that judgment the present writ of error
has been sued out.
VOL. cXXVII-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

Ar. Clarence A. Seward, _XM. Samuel Lord and _Hr. T.
-M.Mordecai for plaintiff in error, submitted on their brief.
X1. Joseph -H. Earle, Attorney General of South Carolina,
for defendant in error.
MA.TTirws, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
MR. JUSTICE

This action is not brought against the defendant in his individual capacity for a trespass or wrong alleged to have been
committed by him as a natural person upon the property or
personal rights of the plaintiff; it is brought against him in
his official capacity as Treasurer of the County of Charleston,
to recover judgment for a sum of money voluntarily paid by
the plaintiff, though under protest, demanded and received by
the defendant in his official capacity, contrary, as the plaintiff
alleges, to law. The judgment sought is not a personal judgment against the defendant, but for a judicial declaration that
the money paid was wrongfully and illegally collected, and
ought to be refunded in order that a certificate of record
thereof may be issued accordingly, to the end that the amount
might be repaid out of the state treasury.
The action is founded expressly on the provisions of the act
of the General Assembly of the State of South Carolina,
approved December 24, 1878, entitled "An act to facilitate
the collection of taxes." The first section of that act provides: "That in all cases in which any state, county, or other
taxes are now or shall hereafter be charged upon the books of
any county treasurer of the State -against any person, and
such treasurer shall claim the payment of the taxes so charged,
or shall take any step or proceeding to collect the same, the
person against whom such taxes are charged or against whom
such step or proceeding shall be taken shall, if he conceives
the same to be unjust or illegal for any cause, pay the said
taxes notwithstanding, under protest, in such funds and moneys as the said county treasurer shall be authorized to receive
by the act of the General Assembly levying the same, and

DE SAUSSURE

v. GAILLARD.

Opinion of the Court.

upon such payment being made the said county treasurer
shall pay the taxes so collected into the state treasury, giving
notice at the time to the comptroller general that the payment was made under protest, and the person so paying said
taxes may at any time within thirty days after making such
payment, but not afterwards, bring an action against the said
county treasurer for the recovery thereof in the Court of Common Pleas for the county in.
which such taxes are payable;
and if it be determined in said action that such taxes were
wrongfully or illegally collected, for any reason going to the
merits, then the court before whom the case is tried shall
certify of record that the same were wrongfully collected and
ought to be refunded, and thereupon the comptroller general
shall issue his warrant for the refunding of the taxes so paid,
which shall be paid in preference to other claims against the
treasury: .P'ovided,That the county treasurers shall be required to receive jury and witness tickets for attendance upon
the circuit courts of the State receivable for taxes due the
county in which the said services are rendered."
The second section of the act prohibits any other remedy
"in any case of the illegal or wrongful collection of taxes or
attempt to collect taxes, or attempt to collect taxes in funds
or moneys which the county treasurer shall be authorized to
receive under the act of the General Assembly levying the
same,' being other than such as the person charged with said
taxes may tender or claim the right to pay, than that provided
in ยง 1 of this act." It expressly provides that "no writ of
mandamus shall be gTanted or issued from any court, or by
the judge of any court, directing or compelling the reception
for taxes of any funds, currency, or bank bills not authorized
to be received for such taxes by the act of the General Assembly
levying the same;" and directs that "no writ, order, or process of any kind whatsoever, staying or preventing any officer
of the State charged with a duty in the collection of taxes
from taking any step or proceeding in the collection of any
tax, whether such tax is legally due or not, shall in any case
be granted by any court, or the judge of any court, but in all
cases whatsoever the person against whom any taxes shall

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

stand charged upon the books of the county treasurer shall
be required to pay the same in such funds and moneys as the
said county treasurer shall be authorized to receive by the act
of the General Assembly levying the said taxes, in manner
and form as above provided, and thereupon shall have his
remedy under the provisions of the first section of this act,
and in no other manner."
The third section of the act is as follows: "That in all cases
in which any person against whom any taxes stand charged
upon the books of any county treasurer of the State has heretofore tendered in payment of the same any funds, currency,
or bank bills, other than such as the said treasurer was authorized to receive by the act of the General Assembly levying
said taxes, the said treasurer shall receive from such person
the said taxes without penalty in funds or moneys authorized
to be received by the act of the General Assembly levying the
same: Provided, That such taxes shall be so paid within
sixty days from the passage of this act; and any person so
paying the same may do so under protest, and thereupon shall
be entitled to all the benefits of the remedy provided in ยง 1 of
this act."
The, Supreme Court of South Carolina, in rendering the
judgment now under review, 21 South Carolina, 560, referred
in its opinion to the legislation of the State on the subject of
its bonded indebtedness, an abstract of which is given in the
pleadings, beginning with the joint resolution adopted June
8, 1877, and declared (p. 567), that it "was manifestly designed
to ascertain judicially, by the rules and principles of law
which regulate contracts between individuals, what was the
valid debt of the State, and to make ample provision for the
prompt and punctual payment of the interest on the debt so
ascertained." After tracing the history of this legislation,
and of the judicial and other proceedings taken thereunder,
the opinion of the Supreme Court of South Carolina proceeds
as follows (p. 568) :
"In pursuance of these provisions, a very large amount of
the original consolidation bonds, which were colored green
and are usually designated as green bonds or ' green consols,'

DE SAUSSURE v. GAILLARD.
Opinion of the Court.

were exchanged for the new consolidation bonds, colored
brown, and are usually designated as 'brown bonds' or
'brown consols,' and represent the valid, unquestioned debt
of the State, the coupons on which are received for taxes or
are promptly paid on presentation. But as it was impossible
to tell whether a 'green bond' represented in whole or in
part, and, if so, what part, any portion of the valid debt of
the State without an examination of the records of the office
of the treasurer of the State, where the various reports of the
special commissioner above mentioned were filed, the various
county treasurers of the State are not allowed to -receive the
coupons of the 'green .bonds'in payment of taxes until they
have been examined and any invalidity which they may contain eliminated and the valid portion converted into ' brown
bonds.'
"It seems, therefore, that the scope and effect of this legislation was not to impair the obligation of any contract entered
into by the State with its bondholders, whereby the State had
agreed to receive the coupons of certain bonds in payment of
taxes, but was simply to provide a mode of proceeding by
which it could be definitely and easily ascertained whether a
coupon offered in payment of taxes represented any portion
of the valid debt of the State; for, unless it did, there certainly was no contract on the part of the State that it should
be received in payment of taxes. . . . It certainly cannot
be pretended that because a tax-payer tenders in payment of
his taxes a coupon of a bond purporting to be a consolidation
bond of the State, colored green, that the State and its fiscal
officers are bound to receive it without question as to whether
it is valid or invalid; and as the State cannot be sued except
with its own consent, and then only in the mode which it
permits, it follows necessarily that the only mode by which
the validity of the coupon so offered in payment of taxes can
be tested is that which has been prescribed by the State."
In answer to the objection that the present plaintiff was
not a party to any of the actions instituted in the court of
claims to test the validity of his bonds, and that he is not
bound by any adjudication therein, the opinion says: "This

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

position might possibly be very well maintained if the defence
here was based simply on the doctrine of res adjudicata; but
that is not the ground upon which the defence rests. The
true ground is, that, as the State could not be sued except
with its own consent, and then only in the mode which it had
seen fit to prescribe, and as the State did prescribe a mode by
which it could be sued, and the validity of its debt tested
upon the same principle by which the contracts of individuals
are tested, and having invited all persons having claims against
it, whose claims were disputed, to come in and assert and
establish their claims, one who has failed to avail himself of
the opportunity thus offered cannot afterward, in another
proceeding not permitted by the State, maintain an action
against the State or against any of its officers for refusing to
do that which the laws of the State forbid."
The Supreme Court of South Carolina then proceeds to
examine the contention on the part of the plaintiff, that the
act of the 24th of December, 1878, entitled "An act to facilitate the collection of taxes," 16 Stats. South Carolina, 785,
expressly authorizes an action against the county treasurer
when such coupons as his have been tendered for taxes and
refused. Upon that point its opinion is expressed as follows

(p. 570):
"This position is, we think, based upon a total misconception of the true meaning of that act. It certainly never was
designed to afford an opportunity to a bondholder to reopen
the question as to the validity of any portion of the state
debt, which it was supposed had been determined by the decision of this court in the IBond Debt Cases,' from which no
intimation of appeal had been given. The very object of the
legislation of the State hereinbefore considered was, as we
have seen, to obtain a final determination of the question of
the validity of the state debt; and certainly the legislature,
by an act passed nearly a year before suchjna'l determination
was reached, never intended to afford the means of reopening
any of the questions thus finally determined. In addition to
this, the phraseology of the act shows that it was never designed to afford a remedy to the bondholder in case his

DE SAUSSURE

v. GAILLARD.

Opinion of the Court.

coupons were refused when tendered for taxes, but was intended solely to afford a remedy in case bills of the bank of
the State were refused when tendered for taxes. But even if
it should be conceded that the terms of the act to facilitate
the collection of taxes were broad enough to cover a case in
which coupons of bonds purporting to be bonds of the State
are refused when tendered for taxes, as well as a case in which
taxes are tendered and refused in other 'funds and moneys'
than the collecting officers are authorized by the act levying
such taxes to receive, we do not see how these actions can be
maintained. By the express terms of the act it must be made
to appear that the county treasurer has illegally and wrong_fully refused to receive payment of the taxes assessed against
the plaintiff in anything else but gold and silver coin, United
States currency, national bank notes, and coupons which shall
become payable during the year 1882 on the valid consolidation bonds of this State, known as ' brown bonds,' as required
to do by the 7th section of the ' Act to raise supplies and
make appropriations for the fiscal year commencing November 1, 1881,' approved February 9, 1882, 17 Stats. South
Carolina, 1070. Practically this last mentioned act forbids
county treasurers from receiving in payment of taxes any
coupons of bonds which have not been ascertained in the
manner prescribed by the legislation hereinbefore mentioned
to be valid obligations of the State. Now, if, as we have
seen, the State had the right to prescribe the mode by which
the validity of any bond purporting to be an obligation of
the State should be tested and determined, and if, as we have
also seen, such mode was prescribed, and the validity of all
the various classes of bonds purporting to be obligations of
the State was passed upon and finally determined, it would
seem to follow necessarily that the State had a perfect right
to forbid its officers charged with the collection of its revenue
from receiving in payment of taxes any coupons or other
form of obligation which had not only not been adjudged to
be h valid obligation of the State, but which, on the contrary,
had been expressly adjudged to be invalid. There certainly
can be notning illegal or wrongful in an officer of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

yielding obedience to a law of the State passed in the usual
form, in pursuance of a judgment of its highest judicial
tribunal, from which there had been no appeal to the tribunal
of last resort, though. express provision had been made for
such appeal."
After having thus decided that the present action was not
maintainable under the provisions of the act of December 24,
1878, the Supreme Court of South Carolina proceeds to review
the grounds of its prior decisions in the Bond Debt Cases, 12
South Carolina, 200, 263, 294, and restates and reaffirms the
same, going at large into the question of the- validity of the
bonds held by the-plaintiff as obligations of the State, adjudging them to be invalid. The conclusion follows and is declared
that the act of the General Assembly entitled "An act to
raise supplies and make appropriations for the fiscal year
commencing November 1, 1881," approved February 9, 1882,
alleged by the plaintiff to be void as impairing the obligation
of the State contained in the bonds and coupons, is a valid
and constitutional law, and justified the defendant, as county
treasurer, in refusing to receive the coupons in payment of
taxes when tendered.
It thus appears that in point of fact the Supreme Court of
the State of South Carolina in its opinion in this case passed
upon the federal question sought to be raised by the plaintiff
as the foundation of his case, and decided it adversely to him;
but the analysis of the case which we have made shows clearly
that the decision of that question was not necessary to the
judgment. Before reaching that question, the Supreme Court
had already decided that the action of the plaintiff could not
be sustained, according to the meaning of the provisions of
the statute under which it was brought. The decision of that
point was final, and was fatal to the plaintiff's right of recovery. That question is not a federal question; it does not arise
under the Constitution of the United States, or of any law or
treaty made in pursuance thereof. It is not a question, therefore, which, under this writ of error, we have a right to review.
We are not authorized to inquire into the grounds and reasons
upon which the Supreme Court proceeded in its construction

DE SAUSSURE v. GAILLARD.
Opinion of the Court.

of that statute. It is a state statute conferring certain rights
upon suitors choosing to avail themselves of its provisions upon
certain conditions in certain cases. Who may sue under it,
and when, and under what circumstances, are questions for
the exclusive determination of the state tribunals, whose judgment thereon is not subject to review by this court. It was.
competent for the State of South Carolina either to grant or
withhold the right to bring suits against the officers of the
State for the recovery of money alleged to have been illegally
exacted and wrongfully paid. If granted, the action is in
substance, though not in name, an action against the State
itself, just as an action permitted by the acts of Congress on
the subject against a collector of customs, for the recovery of
duties alleged to have been illegally exacted, and paid under
protest, is an action against the United States, though nominally against the collector. In such cases, as the State may
withhold all remedy, it may attach to the remedy it actually
gives whatever conditions and limitations it chooses; and its.
own interpretation and application of its statutes on that subject, given by its own judicial tribunals, are conclusive upon
the parties seeking the benefit of them. -No right secured by
the Constitution of the United States to any citizen is affected
by them unless they are framed or administered so as, in some
particular case, to deprive the party of his property without due.
process of law, or to deprive him of the equal protection of the
laws. No such question is or can be made in reference to the
statute of South Carolina under consideration. It authorizes.
in certain enumerated cases, parties found to be within its
terms to bring a prescribed action against the State in the
name of one of its officers. According to the decision of its
highest tribunal, the plaintiff in this action is not within the
class entitled to sue. To review that judgment is not within
the province of this court, because it does not deny or injuriously affect any right claimed by the plaintiff under the Constitution or laws of the United States.
It is a well-settled rule, limiting the jurisdiction of this court_
in such cases, that "where it appears by the record that the
judgment of the state court might have been based either

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

upon a,law which would raise a question of repugnancy to the
Constitution, laws, or treaties of the United States, or upon
some other independent ground; and it appears that the court
did, in fact, base its judgment on such independent ground,
and not on the law raising the federal question, this court will
not take jurisdiction of the case, even though it might think
the position of the state court an unsound one." -Klinger v.
.issouri, 13 Wall. 257, 263, per -Mr. Justice Bradley. And
it has been repeatedly decided, under ยง 709 of the Revised
Statutes, that to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of
error to a state court, it must appear affirmatively, not only
that a federal question was presented for decision to the high.
est court of the State having jurisdiction, but that its decision
was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it
-was actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could
not have been given without deciding it. Brown v. Atwell,
92 U. S. 327; Citizen.s' Bank v. Boar4 of Liquidation,98 U. S.
140; Ckouteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200; Adams County v.
Burlington & .Missouri Railroad,112 U. S.123; Detroit City
Railway v. Guthard,114 U. S.133; NStew Orleans Water Works
V(o. v. LouisianaSugar Refining Co., 125 U-.
S. 18.
Inasmuch, therefore, as the judgment of the Supreme Court
-ofthe State of South Carolina, sought to be brought in review
by this writ of error, does not involve any question necessarily
arising under the Constitution of the United States, or the
laws and treaties made in pursuance thereof, we must refuse
to take jurisdiction in the case.
The writ of error is accordingly dimrisedfor want ofjurisdiction.

