OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.,

which the plaintiff relied. That the plaintiff did rely upon
that agreement is perfectly clear, not only from the complaint,
but from his second request for instructions, as follows:
"12. The court is asked to instruct the jury that if they
believe from the evidence that the lease of a portion of the
lode, though made nominally to Nevitt, was in fact owned by
Mr. Henry Webber, and that the same Webber sold and conveyed a one-twelfth interest to the plaintiff after the making
and delivery of the lease, and if they also believe from the
evidence that at the time of the execution of the deed from
Webber to plaintiff it was mutually agreed between Webber
and plaintiff that this one-twelfth should be exempt from the
operation of said lease, then plaintiff is entitled to the proceeds
of the one-twelfth, and upon these facts they should find for
the plaintiff to the amount fixed by the stipulation of the parties read to the jury, and interest at the rate of ten per cent
per year from August 24th, 1885, the date the suit was
brought."
The jury having found, under appropriate instructions as to
the legal rights of the parties, that there was no such agreement, and the parties having stipulated that nothing was due
to the plaintiff if the interest he acquired from Henry Webber
was subject to the burden of the Nevitt lease, the judgment is
Affirnwd.

BLACKLOOK v. SMALL.
ArPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 148. Argued April 10, 11, 1888. -Decided

April 23, 1888.

Two plaintiffs, citizens of Georgia, broiight a suit in equity, in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of South Carolina, against
S., a citizen of South Carolina, and H., a sister of the plaintiffs, also a
citizen of South Carolina, to set aside the alleged payment by S. to R.,
another defendant, of a bond and mortgage given by him to B., the
father of the plaintiffs and of H., and to have the satisfaction of the

BLACKLOCK v. SALL.
Statement of the Case.
mortgage annulled, and the bond and mortgage delivered up by S., and
the bond paid, and the mortgaged premises sold. Before the alleged
payment to R., B. had assigned the bond to R., in trust for the three
children. When the suit was brought, B was a citizen of South Carolina: .Held,that, as B. could not have brought the suit, the Circuit Court
was forbidden to take cognizance of it, by ยง 1 of the act of March 3,
1875, c. 137, 18 Stat.'470.
This suit was a suit founded on contract, in favor of an assignee, and was
not a suit founded on the wrongful detention by S. of the bond and
mortgage.
The defendant H., by answer, joined in the prayer of the bill, and asked to
have the bond and mortgage declared valid in the hands of R., as trustee,
for the benefit of H. and the plaintiffs, and for a decree that S. pay to H.
and the plaintiffs the amount secured by the bond and mortgage: Held,
that as H. and S. were, -when the suit was brought, both of them citizens
of South Carolina, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction.
As that court had dismissed the bill on the merits, with costs, and the plaintiffs and H. had appealed to this court, the decree was reversed, with
costs in this court against the appellants, and the case was remanded,
with a direction to dismiss the bill for want of jurisdiction, without
costs of that court.

THIs was a bill in equity, filed on the 8th of October, 1879,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
South Carolina, by Emma Jane Blacklock and :Mary Blacklock, citizens of Georgia, against Jacob Small, a citizen of
South Carolina, Alexander :Robertson, a citizen of N~orth
Carolina, and Helen Robertson Blacklock, a citizen of South
Carolina.
The substance of the allegations of the bill was that, on the
20th of March, 1860, John F. Blacklock, the fathbr of the
plaintiffs, owning a house and lot in the city of Charleston, in
the State of South Carolina, sold and conveyed it to the defendant Small, who, on the same day, gave back to Blacklock
a bond and mortgage, the mortgage covering the house and
lot, and being given to secure the payment on the bond of the
sum of $10,600, by three equal and successive annual instalments, the first one payable on the 20th of March, 1861, with
interest from the date of the bond and mortgage, payable annually; that the purchase money of the house and lot was
$16,000, of which $5400 was paid in cash at the time; that
Blacldock, the mortgagee, after receiving from Small, on the
VOL. exxvii-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

19th of AMarch, 1861, $742 for one year's interest, at 7 per
cent, on the bond, indorsed on it the following assignment:
"For value received, I hereby assign, transfer, and set over all
my right, title, and interest in this bond to Alexander Robertson, in trust for children of J. F. Blacklock. J. F. Blacklock;" that' the assignee was the defendant Robertson, and
the "children of J. F. Blackldock" were the plaintiffs and the
defendant Helen Robertson Blacklock; that Small pretended
to pay the bond by making payments to Robertson as follows: On the 19th of October, 1861, $3600 on account of principal and $147 for interest; on the 4th of April, 1862, $2000
on account of principal and $490 for interest; and, on the
10th of April, 1862, the balance of the principal and interest;
making such payments in the treasury notes of the Confederate States; that upon the receipt thereof Robertson satisfied the mortgage and delivered up the bond to Small; that,
at the time of the creation of the trust in the hands of
Robertson, the children of Blacklock were infants; that in
May, 1861, Blacklock went with the children to England, and
remained there until the close of the war; that Robertson, in
receiving such payments in the treasury notes of the Confederate States, violated his duty and was guilty of a breach of
trust; that Small, in attempting to pay the debt in an illegal
currency, with full notice of the trust, had not paid the debt;
that the satisfaction of the mortgage was void, and its lien
was still subsisting; and that Small was still liable for the
amount lue on the bond, with interest.
The prayer of the bill was, that the payment of the bond
in Confederate treasury notes may be disallowed; that the
satisfaction of the mortgage may be annulled and the mortgage be reestablished and declared a subsisting lien on the
land; that Small may be ordered to deliver up the bond and
mortgage to the plaintiffs; and that the plaintiffs may have a
decree for the payment to them by Small of the amount due
and for a sale of the mortgaged premises.
Small appeared in the suit and interposed a plea that the
court had no jurisdiction of the cause, because the plaintiffs as
well as himself were citizens of South Carolina when the bill

BLACKLOCK v." SMALL.
Argument for Appellants.

was filed. On issue joined on this plea, it was overruled, and
Small put in an answer to the bill, as did also Robertson.
The defendant Helen Robertson Blacklock put in an answer,
admitting the allegations of the bill, and averring that Robertson held the b6nd and mortgage as a trustee for herself and
her sisters, in whom was the real and actual interest therein;
that the attempted payment by Small was without legal
effect; that the bond and mortgage were still the property of
the defendant and her sisters; and that she joint in the prayer
of the bill that the pretended payments of the bond, by Small
to Robertson, and the satisfaction entered on the mortgage,
be declared null and void, that the bond and mortgage be declared valid and subsisting obligations of Small to Robertson,
as the trustee of a trust for the benefit of the defendant and
her sisters, and that Small be decreed to pay the defendant
and the plaintiffs the amount of money secured by the bond
and mortgage.
Under replications to the answers, proofs were taken by the
several parties. The case was heard on its merits, and a,
decree was made dismissing the bill, with costs. From this
decree the plaintiffs and the defendant Helen Robertson
Blacklock appealed to this court.
fl. B. H Rutledge (with whom was [r. James Lowndes)
for appellants contended, on the question of jurisdiction, as
follows"
I. "The distinction, as it respects the application of the 11th
section of the Judiciary Act to a suit, concerning a chose in
action is this - when the suit is brought to enforce the contract,
the assignee is disabled unless it might have been brought in
the court if no assignment had been made; but if br.oughtfor
a tortious taking or wrongful detention of the chattel, then the
remedy accrues to the person who has the right of property or
of possession at the time, the same as in case of a like wrong
in respect to any other sort of _personalproperty." Deshler v.
-Dodge, 16 How. 622, 631.
"The assignee of a chose in action may maintain a suit ir

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Argument for Appellants.

the Circuit Court to recover possession of the specific thing;
or damages for its wrongful caption or detention, though the
court would have no jurisdiction of the suit if brought by
assignors." Bushnell v. Xennedy, 9 Wall. 391.
What is the fundamental character of this suit? To recover
possession and control of specific papers - tortiously taken
and wrongfully detained- by virtue of an act apparently
legal on the face of the papers, but totally illegal and without
effect. If "founded on contract," the court is without jurisdiction. If founded on tort, it has jurisdiction. The question
is purely technical.
(a) There is no essential difference in principle between
Deshler's and the present case. In each the assignee sues
when the assigmor could not. A- each the critical contention is
to obtain possession of a specific personal chattel - bank-notes
in one-bond and mortgage in the other-of which the
defendant had possession under an apparent claim of right,
-viz., an unlawful distress in the one, and an unlawful payment in the other. In each the crucial point is whether the
act under which the defendant claims is lawful or not. If
lawful, the possession is lawful; if unlawful, it is tortious.
There are slight differences in the facts of the cases. Deshler
proceeded by replevin. The Blacklocks by bill in equity.
Either course is correct. The latter is the most approved.
The same doctrine applies to other instruments and securities,
and other evidences of property which are improperly withheld from the persons who have an equitable or legal interest
in them, or who have a right to have them preserved. This
redress, a court of common law is for the most part incapable
of affording, since the prescribed forms of its remedies rarely
enable it to pronounce a judgment in rem in such cases which
is or can be made effectual. It is true that an action of detinue
or even replevin might in some few cases lie and give the
proper remedy if the thing could be found; but generally in actions at law damages only are recoverable, and such a remedy
must in many cases be wholly inadequate. This constitutes
the true ground for the prompt interposition of courts of equity
for the recovery of the specific deeds or other instruments.

BLACKLOCK v. SMALL.
Argument for Appellants.

(b) But it may be said -

the ulterior object - to obtain

payment of the bond -determines it to be "founded on contract." It was not so considered in Deshler's case. It is true
if the contract of the bond and mortgage had not been made,
this suit could not exist. But it is equally true, if Small had
not got these papers into his possession by an illegal and
tortious act, this suit could not exist. It is most natural and
appropriate for the plaintiffs to set aside the tort before they
attempt to proceed on the contract.
(6) Also that the structure of the bill shows contract to be
its foundation. Primafacie there is no contract remaining.
Small says there is not, that it has been discharged by a
given act, and is as if it had never been, and the papers are
his. Who is to determine this? It stands until it is annulled
by the court. The bill asks that it be annulled -the lien of
the mortgage declared existing - and the papers delivered
into the custody of the owners. Why not? If the act was
illegal, the rest follows ex necessitate.
(d) Also that the bill prays foreclosure, and this shows the
true inwardness of the case. The practice of equity is thus
stated by this court: "Having obtained rightful jurisdiction
of the parties and the subject matter of the action for one
.purpose,the court will make its jurisdiction effectual for complete relief." Ober v. Gallagher,93 U. S. 199, 206; Tayloe
v. .arine Ins. Co., 9 How. 390; ]1ard v. Todd, 103 U. S.
327; Quattlebaum v. Black, 21 So. Car. 55.
The rulings of Deshler v. Dodge and Bushnell v. Kennedy
are not denied, nor are those of Ober v. Gallagher; but it is
said the rule of the last case does not apply because, "although
the court has obtained rightful jurisdiction of the parties and
sulject matter of the action for one purpose, it cannot proceed
to adjudicate another subject matter embraced in the suit, of
which it is expressly forbidden to take cognizance." But
Chief Justice Marshalljays in Osborn v. Bank of the United
States, 9 Wheat. '738, 822, if jurisdiction is once obtained,
"then all other questions must be decided as incidental to
this, which gives that jurisdiction -These other questions
cannot arrest the proceedings."

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Appellants.

The analogy between this proceeding and bills for discovery, where general relief is given, although the right of discovery alone gives jurisdiction, is instructive. And further, the
subject matters of the suit are, although distinct in one aspect,
intimately connected. The tort is the root of the suit, and
gives it its fundamental and jurisdictional character; and it is
necessary that it shall be first declared before a right of
action accrues on the mortgage or bond.
In fact and in law, the foreclosure or further proceedings
can and will be simply "in addition to, and continuance of "
-ancillary to the original suit-and such proceedings are
maintainable "without reference to the citizenship or residence of the parties." JYipendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S.276;
Jones v. Andrews, 10 Wall. 327; Pacifie Railroadv. Missouri
Railroad,111 U. S. 505; -Dewey v. Gas Coal Co., 123 U. S.
329.
II. If the parties on the record -plaintiffs and defendants
respectively- are citizens of di~ferent States -and thus far
the jurisdiction is unobjectionable, is it ousted by the fact
that one defendant, who has a like but several interest with
the plaintiffs -is a citizen of the same State, with the defendant against whom the plaintiffs make their contention?
The plaintiffs have a constitutional right to sue in the Federal courts. In all the cases where this right is denied,
either a citizen of the same State with defendant has joined
in the suit as plaintiff; or has made a formal -not a substantial release to the plaintiffs-by such means to juggle into the
jurisdiction; or otherwise sought to trick themselves into the
jurisdiction. RemovaZ Cases, 100 U. S.457; Barney v. Baltimnore, 6 Wall. 283; William v. Hottawa, 104 U. S.209; Penineular Iron Co. v, Stone, 121 U. S. 631; Sewing 3achine
40ompanies' Case, 18 Wall. 553.
If the principle contended for is admitted, the rights of citizens dependent on the Constitution areeliminated: and in its
place the volition of one or more persons is substituted as the
basis of jurisdictional right.
MArr. James Simons and .Mr. Samuel Lord for appellees.

BLACKLOCK v. SMIALL.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE

BLATcHFORD,

after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
It appears by the proofs in the record that John F. Blacklock, the assignor of the bond, was, at the time of the assignment, a citizen of South Carolina, and continued to be such
until this suit was commenced, and that the defendant Small
was, when this suit was commenced, a citizen of South Carolina. Under these circumstances, the provision of the 1st section of the act of Congress of March 3, 1875, c. 137, (18 Stat.
470,) applies to this case. That provision is as follows: 1Nor
shall any Circuit or District Court have cognizance of any
suit founded on contract in favor of an assignee, unless a suit
might have been prosecuted in such court to recover thereon
if no assignment had been made, except in cases of promissory
notes negotiable by the law merchant, and bills of exchange."
The present suit is a suit against Small, founded on contract,
namely, his bond and mortgage in favor of the plaintiffs, who
claim only under the assignment made by their father, John
F. Blacklock, to the defendant Robertson. John F. Blacklock could not have prosecuted this suit in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of South Carolina, to recover on the bond and mortgage against Small, if he had made
no assignment of the bond to Robertson, for the reason that
he and Small were not citizens of different States when the
suit was commenced, but were both of them at that time
citizens of South Carolina.
In answer to this objection, it is contended by the appellants,
that this suit is not to be regarded as a suit founded on the
contract of Small, to recover thereon, but is to be regarded as
a suit for the delivery of the bond and mortgage by Small to
the plaintiffs, founded on their wrongful detention, and that
the rest of the relief prayed by the bill is ancillary and incidental; and the cases of Deshler v. -Dodge,16 How. 622, and
Bushnell v. Eennedy, 9 Wall. 387, are cited as authorities;
but they do not apply.
The case of .Desler v. -Dodge was an action of replevin,
brought by a citizen of New York against a citizen of Ohio,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Ohio, to recover possession of a package of bank bills. The
title of the plaintiff to the contents of the package was derived by the assignment from corporations of Ohio. This
court held that the action could be maintained, although the
assignors could not have brought the suit, and that the suit
was not one to recover the contents of a chose in actio.
within the meaning of ยง 11 of the Judiciary Act of September

24, 1789.
In Bushnell v. Fennedy it was said, though not determined,
because not necessary to that case, that the provision of the
11th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 did not apply to a,
naked right of action founded on 'a wrongful act or a neglect
of duty, to which the law attached damages.
In the present case, the bill is clearly one for a decree against.
Small for the amount of the bond, and for a foreclosure of the
mortgage and a sale of the mortgaged premises.
There is another difficulty in the case, on the question of
jurisdiction. The bond was a unit; the mortgage was a unit;
and the assignment of the bond by Blacklock to Robertson in
trust for the children of Blacklock was a unit. The bond can-,
not be enforced against Small, nor can the mortgaged premises be sold, in favor of the two plaintiffs alone. The relief
asked in the suit must necessarily be for the benefit of the defendant Helen Robertson Blacklock, as well as for the benefit
of the plaintiffs, especially as, by her answer, she ranges herself on the side of the plaintiffs as against Small, joins in the
prayer of the bill, and asks that the payment of the bond
and the satisfaction of the mortgage be declared void, and
that the bond and mortgage be declared valid in the hands
of Robertson, as trustee, for the benefit of herself and the
plaintiffs, and that Small be decreed to pay to herself and the
plaintiffs the amount of money secured by the bond and mortgage, with interest. The suit is, therefore, shown to be one substantially by and for the benefit of Helen Robertson Blacklock,
and the proofs show that, at the time of the commencement
of the suit, she was, and has since then always continued to
be, a citizen of South Carolina, of which State Small was anc[

SMITH v. BOURBON COUNTY.

10&,

Syllabus.

is a citizen.

Ayres v. Wiswall, 112 U. S. 187 ; [[hayer v. Zife

Association, 112 U. S. 717; Hew Jersey Central Railroad Co.

v. .Mils, 113 U. S. 249; Louisville &c Nashville Railroad v.
Ide, 114 U. S. 52.
The Circuit Court ought, therefore, to have dismissed the
bill for want of jurisdiction, and not upon the merits. For
this error, its decree is reversed, with costs in this court against
the appellants, because the reversal takes place on account of
their fault, in invoking the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courtwhen they had no right to resort to it, .ansfield, Coldwater &
Lake .MichiganRailroadv. Swan, 111 U. S. 379, 388, 389, and
1he case is remanded to the Circuit Court, wit a direction
to dismiss the bill frr want of jurisdiction,without costsof that court.

St'ITH v. BOURBON COUNTY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOIZ

THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
No. 193. Submitted February 17, 1888. -Decided

April 23, 1888.

The complainant's bill alleged that he was a judgment creditor of a railroad
company; that the Board of Commissioners of Bourbon County had subscribed to the stock of the railroad company, and had voted upon it at
meetings of the corporation, and had thereby become bound to the company to issue to it bonds of the county equal to the par value of the
stock; that the bonds had not been issued; and that the obligation was
still outstanding. The remedies sought for were, (1) that the company
should be ordered to assign to the complainant its claim against the
county; and (2) a decree against the county ordering it to issue the bonds,
and to deliver them to the complainant, to be credited upon his judgment
at their face value. Held,
(1) That the right to proceed against the county and its officers to compel
the issue of the bonds was a purely legal right, to be prosecuted
at law, in mandamus, whether the proceeding was in the name of
the railroad company or of its privy by assignment;
(2) That the equitable nature of the complainant's rights against the,
company furnished no ground for the support of such a bill in,
equity against the county; and
(3) That the bill should be dismissed as to the county without prejudice
to the complainant's right to proceed at law to obtain the issue of
the bonds, after acquiring the rights of the railroad.

