GLACIER MINING CO. v. WILLIS.
Syllabus.

be the act of another; indeed, all and every kind of instrument
by the forging of which any person may be affected, bound,
or in any way injured in his person or property. I do not
see why an engraved or printed instrument, or an' engraved
or printed name, affixed to an instrument by a person is not
his act, and may not purport to be the act of another."
The same principle is reaffirmed by the Supreme Court of
Massachusetts in the case of Wheeler v. Lynde, 1 Allen, 402.
We are of opinion that the decision of Commissioner Lyman, committing the prisoner to the custody of the marshal
to await the requisition of the Mexican government, was justified, and the judgment of the Circuit Court dismissing the writ
of habeas cowyus is accordingly

Affirmed.

GLACIER MOUNTAIN SILVER MINING- COMPANY
v. WILLIS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
No. 166.

Submitted April 9, 1888.-Declded May 14, 1888.

After hearing counsel the court of its own motion dismisses a case for
want of jurisdiction. Plaintiff in error moves to reinstate it, supporting
the motion by affidavits as to the value of the property in dispute. The
court orders service on the other party, and on return vacates the judgment of dismissal.
In an action of ejectment, the description of the land claimed was as follows:
'-commencing near the base of said mountain east of Bear Creek and
running southeast and parallel with Coley tunnel through said mountain
five thousand feet from the mouth or starting point of said tunnel at a
stake marked and in or at the mouth of said Silver Gate tunnel and two
hundred and fifty feet northeast and two hundred and fifty feet southwest from said stake or tunnel to -its termination?" Held, that it was
a sufficient description.
In ejectment for the possession of a mine in Colorado, the complaint, after
describing the land and a tunnel claim therein, averred that "the said
tunnel claim so located embraces many valuable lodes or veins which
have been discovered, worked, and mined by the plaintiff and its grant-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.
ors." Held, that this was a sufficient description of the lodes for which
recovery was asked.
A complaint in ejectment in Colorado, for a mine, which alleges a valid and
legal location by those under whom the plaintiff claims, and possession
and occupation by the plaintiff for more than five consecutive years prior
to the ouster, and payment of taxes by him during that time, sets up a
sufficient claim to title as against everybody except the United States.
Mineral locations on public lands, made prior to the passage of any mineral
law by Congress, are governed by local rules and customs then in force;
but their effect cannot be determined on the demurrer in this action.

Tim case, as stated by the court, was as follows:
This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Colorado to review a judgment of
that court sustaining a demurrer to the "second amended
complaint" filed by the Glacier Mountain Silver Mining
Company, plaintiff in error, against J. Frank Willis, Charles
Buckland, and Donald M. Frothingham, defendants in error,
which complaint is in the words and figures following, to wit:
"For second amended complaint the plaintiff complains and
alleges that it is a corporation organized and existing under
the laws of the State of Ohio and is a citizen of the State of
Ohio; that the defendants are and each of them is a citizen
of the State of Colorado, and that the property in controversy
exceeds the value of $500.
"Plaintiff further alleges that on the 21st day of June,
1865, one Joseph Coley and one George C. Reeves, each being
a citizen of the United States, went upon the public domain
of the United States theretofore wholly unoccupied and
unclaimed and located on said day a tunnel and tunnel site at
the base of Glacier Mountain, in Snake River mining district,
county of Summit, State of Colorado.
"That afterwards and on the same day they marked the
boundaries of their said location and commenced to run a
tunnel into said Glacier Mountain, and, after fully complying
with the laws of the United States, the laws of the State of
Colorado, and the local rules and regulations of the said Snake
River mining district, they caused to be made out and recorded in the recorder's office of the county of Summit afore-

GLACIER 31INING CO. v. WILLIS.
Statement of the Case.

said a location certificate of said tunnel claim, which said
certificate described the location and boundaries of said tunnel
claim.
"That from the day of said location until the ouster hereinafter set forth the said locators of said tunnel claim and their
grantees remained continuously in possession of said tunnel
claim, working and mining thereon, and have expended thereon more than the sum of $5000.
"That the plaintiff is the owner of the said tunnel claim
above described by location and purchase, and is now entitled
to the quiet and peaceable and exclusive possession thereof by
virtue of a full compliance on its part and on the part of its
grantors with the laws, rules, and customs above set forth;
that the plaintiff and its grantors have been in the peaceable
and undisputed possession of said tunnel claim, by virtue of
such location, occupation, preeimption, and record, for more
than five years prior to the ouster hereinafter complained of.
"That plaintiff and its grantors, for more than five consecutive years prior to the acts of the defendants hereinafter mentioned, paid all taxes legally or otherwise assessed upon said
tunnel claim, and have worked and mined the same from said
21st day of June, 1865, up to the time of the acts of the
defendants hereinafter set forth.
"That the said tunnel claim so located embraces many
valuable lodes or veins which have been discovered, worked,
and mined by the plaintiff and its grantors.
"That the said tunnel claim was by its locators named the
Silver Gate tunnel claim, and is described more fully as follows: Commencing at the base of said Glacier Mountain east
of Bear Creek, and running southeast and parallel with Coley
tunnel through said mountain five thousand feet from the
mouth or starting point of said tunnel at a stake marked and
in or at the mouth of said Silver Gate tunnel, and two hundred
and fifty feet northeast and two hundred and fifty feet southwest from said stake or tunnel to its termination.
"Said tunnel site is situate on Glacier Mountain, in Snake
River mining district, county of Summit and State of Colorado, and is five thousand feet in length by five hundred feet
in width.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

"Plaintiff further alleges that while it was in the quiet and
peaceful possession of said tunnel claim and every part thereof
the defendants, wrongfully and without right and without
consent of the plaintiff, to wit, on or about the 2d day of
July, 1883, entered upon the premises and into said tunnel
so run by plaintiff and its grantors on said claim, and wrongfully and unlawfully ousted the plaintiff therefrom, claiming
the said tunnel as the War Eagle.
"That on or about said last mentioned date the defendants,
without right, made a pretended location of a lode claim
across said tunnel and within said tunnel claim, and therein
wrongfully ousted the plaintiff therefrom, claiming that they
had discovered a lode which they called the Tempest lode.
"That the defendants have ever since hitherto unlawfully
and wrongfully withheld the possession of the said premises
and tunnel claim from the plaintiff, to its damage in the sum
of $1000.
"Wherefore plaintiff demands judgment against the defendants "6(1) For the recovery of the possession of said Silver Gate
tunnel, tunnel site, and claim.
"(2) For thesum of $1000 damages for the wrongful withiholding thereof.
"(3) For costs of suit."
The demurrer of the defendants rested upon four grounds:
" First. That the property sought to be recovered in this
action is not described by its legal subdivisions nor by its
metes and bounds.
"Second. That the lodes alleged to be embraced within the
said tunnel site location, and for which a recovery isasked by
the said plaintiff, are not mentioned nor described, nor any
location of them or any of them alleged.
-Third. That said complainant does not show any valid and
legal subsisting preemption or location of said Silver Gate
tunnel site.
"Fourth. That the claim of the said plaintiff to a strip of
ground 5000 feet in length by 500 feet in width as a tunnel
site is unwarranted and unprecedented and was not at the

GLACIER MINING CO.

v. WILLIS.

Affidavits on Motion to Reinstate the Case.

date of said pretended location nor at any time subsequent
thereto authorized by any local, state, or congressional law."
.AXr. Walter . Smith, on the 6th of February, 1888, argued
the case for the plaintiff in error when it was reached on the
docket, no one appearing for the defendants in error. The
court, after hearing argument on the point, dismissed the case
from the bench for want of jurisdiction.
On the 7th of February Mr21.
Smith made the following
motion, supported by the accompanying affidavits, all entitled.
in the cause:
"The said Glacier Mountain Silver Mining Company, plaintiff in error, now comes and moves the court to set aside its
order made on the 6th of February, 1888, dismissing said
cause for want of jurisdiction and for leave to show that the
property in controversy in said cause did at the commenceinent of said suit and now does exceed five thousand dollars
in value, and therefore that this court has jurisdiction of this
cause.
"WALTER

H.

SMITH,

"Attorney for P7ainti in Error.
"DISTRICT OF COLUMMIA,

"county of Wa8hingto,_'
"I, Oscar H. Curtis, being first duly sworn, say that I reside at Oxford, Chenango County, New York; that I am well
acquainted with the Silver Gate tunnel claim, situate at the
base of the Glacier Mountain, in Snake River mining district,
in Summit County, Colorado, being the same premises and
property that is now in controversy in the case now pending
in the Supreme Court of the United States, wherein the Glacier Mountain Silver Mining Company is plaintiff in error and
J. Frank Willis et a. are defendants in error, being No. 166
of the October Term, 1887. I at one time was the owner of
said property. I purchased it at sheriff's sale and paid therefor
over twelve thousand dollars. I know that more than twenty
thousand dollars has already been expended in developing said

OCTOBER TERI, 1887.
Affidavits on Motion to Reinstate the Case.

property, and I have no hesitation in saying that the value of
said premises and property on the first day of July, 1883, and
at all times since that date, exceeded the sum of five thousand
dollars.
"OscAR H. Cunris.

"Subscribed and sworn to before me this 7th day of February, 1888.
"[SEAL.]
JEs
D. MAHER."
IR. CHIEF JUsTIcE W.rrE, on the 13th of February made

the following announcement:
The further consideration of this motion is postponed until
March 19, and the plaintiff in error is directed to cause notice
of this order and of the motion, with a copy of all affidavits
filed or to be filed in support thereof, to be served upon the
defendants in error on or before the second day of March.
On the 20th of March Xr. Smith, on behalf of the plaintiff
in error, submitted to the court his motion to vacate the judgment and reinstate the cause, and the following additional
affidavits in support of it, and evidence of service of all the
affidavits, all entitled in the cause:
"STATE OF OnIo,

"Hamilton County,_
"I, Goodrich IT. Barbour, being first duly sworn, say that I
reside at Cincinnati, Hamilton County, Ohio, that I am well
acquainted with the Silver Gate tunnel claim, situated at the
base of Glacier Mountain, in Snake River mining district, in
Summit County, Colorado, being the same premises and property now in controversy in the case now pending in the Supreme Court of the United States, wherein the Glacier Mountain Silver Mining Company is plaintiff in error, and X.Frank
Willis et al. are defendants in error, being No. 166 of the
October term, 1887. That I have been a stockholder in said
Glacier Mountain Silver Mining Company since 1876 and was
induced to purchase this by the personal knowledge of a near

GLACIER AHINING CO. v. WILLIS.
Affidavits on Motion to Reinstate the Case.

relative and others who had visited the mine and from reliable
correspondence up to the present time. I have not changed
my opinion as to the value of said mine. I consider the said
mine to be worth more than $5000.00. Would not sell my
stock on a basis of treble this amount; that I have been a
director since 1877, and from my personal knowledge, the
Company have paid in assessments for improvements on said
property, nearly five thousand dollars.
GooDRICic H. BA-RBoUR.
"Sworn to before me and subscribed in my presence this
9Ath day of February, A.D. 1888.
"[NoARY SEAL.]
E. J. HoweAD,
"'I otary Public, Hamilton County, Ohio.
"UNITED

STATES OF AmERICA,

"State of Colorado.
" IN THE CIRCUIT COURT.

"On this twenty-fifth day of February, A.D. 1888, personally

appeared Charles P. Baldwin, who, beiig first duly sworn, on
oath deposes and says, that he is a citizen of the United States
and more than twenty-one years of age; that he has been for
the past twenty years and still is employed as mining superintendent in Clear 'Creek County, Colorado; that about eight
years ago he was employed by the president of the Glacier
Mountain Silver Mining Company to examine the property of
.said Company situate and being on Glacier 'Mountain in Summit County, Colorado; that he made a careful examination of
said property, and that it was worth at that time, and is now
worth more than five thousand dollars.
"CHARLES P. BALDWIN.
"Subscribed and sworn to before me this 25th day of FebXuary, 1888.
"[CLERK's SEAL.]
H. A. ATKINs,
"Clerk of !District Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Affidavits on Motion to Reinstate the Case.

"THE STATE

OF KANSAS,

"Ma, rshall County, t

8

:

"Charles Preston, of lawful age, beiig first duly sworn,
according to law, upon his oath deposeth and saith, that he is
personally well acquainted with the Glacier Mountain Silver
Mining Company's property in the Snake River Mining District, in Summit County, in the State of Colorado, being the
property represented in the above-entitled suit, and that said
affiant is personally well acquainted with the value of said
property; that said affiant has been mining in that District
for six years last past, and is personally acquainted with the
property represented in the foregoing entitled suit, and is well
-acquainted with the value of said property, and other mining
properties of that District, and that the said Glacier Mountain
Silver Mining Property is worth over five thousand dollars,
and further this affiant saith not.
"CHARLES PRIESTON.

"Subscribed and sworn to before me this 24th day, February,
1888, by Charles Preston.
"In witness whereof- I have hereunto subscribed my name,
and affixed my Official Seal this 24th day of February, A.D.
1888.
A.D.

"B.

"[NOTARY

SEAL.]

SMITHi,

Notary Public.

OF COLuTBmiA,
:
" Wa"ington County, I 8
"I, Walter I. Smith, being first duly sworn, say that I did,
on the 29th day of February, A.D. 1888, deposit in the Post
Office at Washington City, in said district, a letter directed to
George Norris, Temple Court, corner 'of Beekman and Nassau
streets, New York City, (the said Norris being the attorney
of record for the defendants in error in the above named case
of Tne Glacier JountainSilver Mining Company v. J 1ralk
Millis et al,) which said letter contained a certified copy of
the order made by this court on the 13th day of February
last, in said cause; a copy of the affidavit of Oscar H. Curtis,
"THE DisTiir

GLACIER MINING CO. v. WILLIS.
Opinion of the Court.

heretofore filed and printed and a copy of the affidavits of
Isaac Graveson, Goodrich H. Barbour, Charles Preston, and
Charles P. Baldwin, herein above set forth, all of which were
filed in the clerk's office prior to or on the 29th day of February last, I further say that I obtained the post-office address.
of the said George Norris from the clerk of this court.
"WALTER H.

SMITH.

"Subscribed aid sworn to before me this 15th day of iMarch,
1888.
it [oTAMY BEAL.]

".JLt-Es H. GRrDLEY,

Notary Publia."l

Mm. JUSTICE M:LER, on the 2d of April, 1888, made the

following announcement:
This case was dismissed at the hearing on the ground that
the amount in dispute was not sufficient to give this court
jurisdiction. Permission, however, was given for the plaintiff
in error to move to set aside this dismissal and file affidavits,
if it could, to show that the value of the property which was
the subject of controversy exceeded five thousand dollars.
We think the affidavits now produced establish that fact
sufficiently, and as no affidavits to the contrary have been
produced, although the defendants in error had notice, themotion to set aside the order of dismissal is granted, and the
case restored to the docket in the position it occupied before it
was dismissed.
Xr. Walter E. Smith, on the 9th April, 1888, submitted
the case for.plaintiff in error on his brief. Mr.Eler'y C.FaorJ
was with him on the brief.
No appearance for defendant in error, and no brief filed.
after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
MR. JusrxoE

LAY-A,

The opinion of the court below is not found in the record,
and we are not advised by brief or otherwise as to the grounds

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

upon which the court sustained the demurrer. We must, therefore, determine the issues presented in the case by reference to the bill of complaint, and to the causes assigned for
demurrer.
First. That the property sought to be recovered in this
action is not described by its legal subdivisions nor by its
metes and bounds. We do not think this ground is tenable.
The complaint, after setting forth the location by plaintiff's
grantors of the tunnel and tunnel site in Snake River Plining district, Summit County, Colorado, at the base of the Glacier M ountain, states that they (said grantors) caused to be made out and
recorded in the recorder's office of the county aforesaid, a location certificate of said tunnel claim, which said certificate described the location and boundaries of said tunnel claim; that the
said tunnel claim was by its locators named the Silver Gate tunnel claim, and is described more fully as follows : "Commencing
at the base of said Glacier Mountain east of Bear Creek, and
running southeast and parallel with Coley tunnel through said
mountain five thousand feet from the mouth or starting point
of said tunnel at a stake marked and in or at the mouth of said
Silver Gate tunnel, and two Ifandred and fifty feet northeast
and two hundred and fifty feet southwest from said stake or
tunnel to its termination."
We think this description is sufficiently plain and distinct to
enable the sheriff in base of a recovery to execute a writ of
possession, or to enable a surveyor to ascertain the exact limits
of the location. The strict rule of pleading which formerly
required exact accuracy in the description of premises sought
to be recovered, has, in modern .practice, been relaxed, and a
general description of the property held to be good, The provisions of state statutes as to the description of the premises
by metes and bounds, have been held to be only directory, and
a description by name where the property is well known is
often sufficient.
As to the second cause of demurreP, we think that, though
the lodes alleged to be embraced within the said tunnel site
location are not each separately described, the statement in
the complaint that all the lodes in the tunnel claim have been

GLACIER MINING CO. v. WILLIS.
Opinion of the Court.

worked and mined by the plaintiff and its grantors, comprehends every part of the property for the recovery of which the
action is brought.
With reference to the third ground of the demurrer, it is
only necessary to say that the complaint alleges that a valid
and legal location of said tunnel was made by persons under
whom the plaiiatiff claims, and that the plaintiff held possession of the same for more than five consecutive years prior to
the ouster by the defendants, and paid all the taxes during
that period legally or other'wise assessed upon said property.
This, under the laws of Colorado, would give the plaintiff a
right to the premises in dispute superior to any other claim,
except that of the government.
The fourth ground of demurrer is: "That the claim of the
said plaintiff to a strip of ground 5000 feet in length by 500
feet in width as a tunnel site is unwarranted and unprecedented and was not at the date of said pretended location nor
at any time subsequent thereto authorized by any local, state,
or congressional law." Under ยง 2323 -Rev. Stat. the right is
given to locate a tunnel 3000 feet from the face of said tunnel, and the right is also given to the lodes discovered in said
tunnel " to the same extent as if discovered from the surface,"
which is 300 feet on each side of the tunnel. Under the local
laws of Colorado the right is given to "250 feet each way
from said tunnel on each lode so discovered." 1801, ยง 5 General Laws of Colorado, 627. The objection presented by the demurrer is, that the tunnel is 5000 feet in length, whereas the
statute only recognizes a right of 3000 feet from the mouth
thereof, and that this renders the whole claim void.
We do not assent to this proposition. The location would
be good to the extent of 3000 feet at least. Rickmond .Xining Company v. Rose, 114 U. S. 576, 580. This would be true
had the location been made under the mining laws now in
force. It will be observed, however, that this location was
made prior to the passage of any general mineral law. It was
made in 1865, and the first general statute passed by Congress
on the subject is that of July 26, 1866. It is alleged by the
plaintiff in error that this location was made in accordance
VOL. CxVx-31

482,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

with the local rules and customs of miners in force at the time
of the location, and that, therefore, such location was recognized and protected by the general mineral laws of July 26i
1866, 14 Stat. 251, and that of Mlay 10, 1872, 17 Stat. 91. This
allegation, however, is denied by the defendants; but as these
local rules and customs differ in the several mining districts as
to the extent and character of the' mine, the qyestion cannot
properly be determined on demurrer.
The Land Department of the government, and this court
also, have always acted upon the 'rule that all mineral locations were to be governed by the local rules and customs in
force at the time of the location, when such location was made
prior to the passage of any mineral law by Congress. Jennison v. Kirk, 98 U. S. 453, 457; Broder v. Water Co., 101 U. S.
274, 276; Jackson v. Roby, 109 U. S. 440, 441; Chambers v.
-Harrington,111 U. S. 350, 352.
We are, therefore, of the opinion that the cause of action is
plainly and fully set forth in the complaint, and that the judgment of the court below cannot be sustained on any ground
presented by the record.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed, and
the cause remanded to that courtfor such further proceedings as are consistent with this opinion. So ordered.

HEGLER v. FAULKNER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 283. Submitted May 3, 1888.-Decided Iay 14, 1888.

There being nothing in the record to show that the Circuit Court had jurisdiction of the case, this court of its own motion reverses the judgment
and remands the cause for further proceedings.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

