OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Counsel for Parties.

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COURT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 914. Argued January 4,1888.-

Decided April 9, 1888.

The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution was not designed to interfere with the exercise of the police power by the State for the protection of health, the prevention of fraud, and the preservation of the
public morals.
The prohibition of the manufacture out of oleaginous substances, or out of
any compound thereof other than that produced from unadulterated milk
or cream from unadulterated milk- of an -article designed to take the
place of butter or cheese produced from pure unadulterated milk or
cream from unadulterated milk; or the prohibition upon the manufacture
of any imitation or adulterated butter or cheese, or upon the selling or
offering for sale, or having in possession with intent to sell, the same,
as an article of food, is a lawful exercise by the State of the power to
protect, by police regulations, the public health.
Whether the manufacture of oleomargarine, or imitation butter, of the kind
'described in the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania of May 21, 1885,
(Laws of Penn. of 1885, p. 22, No. 25,) is, or may be, conducted in such
a way, or with such skill and secrecy, as to baffle ordinary inspection, or
whether it involves such danger to the public health as to require, for
the protection of the people, the entire suppression of the business,
rather than its regulation in such manner as to permit the manufacture
and sale of articles of that class that do not contain noxious ingredients,
are questions of fact and of public policy, which belong to the legislative
department to determine.
The Statute of Pennsylvania of May 21, 1885, "for the protection of the
public health, and to prevent adulteration of dairy products and fraud
in the sale thereof" neither denies to persons within the jurisdiction of
the State the equal protection of the laws; nor deprives persons of their
property without that compensation required by law; and is not repugnant in these respects to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Xk. D. 17. Watson, and Xri. Lyman B. Gilbert for plaintiff
in error.

X.

W. B. Rodgers was with them on the brief.

Mr. Wayne iMac Veagh for defendant in error.
Wintersteen was with him on the brief.

Mrk. A.

.

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.
YM.

JUSTICE

]

_RLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error brings up for review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, sustaining the validity of a
statute of that Commonwealth relating to the manufacture
and sale of what is commonly called oleomargarine butter.
That judgment, the plaintiff in error contends, denies to him
certain rights and privileges specially claimed under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
By acts of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, one
approved May 22, 1878, and entitled "An act to prevent
deception in the sale of batter and cheese," and the other
approved May 24, 1883, and entitled "An act for the protection of dairymen, and to prevent deception in sales of butter
and cheese," provision was made for the stamping, branding,
or marking, in a prescribed mode, manufactured articles or
substances in semblance or imitation of butter or cheese, not
the legitimate product of the dairy, and not made exclusively
of milk or cream, but into which oil, lard, or fat, not produced
from milk or cream, entered as a component part, or into
which melted butter or any oil thereof had been introduced to
take the place of cream. Laws of Pennsylvania, 1878, p. 87;
1883, p. 43.
But this legislation, we presume, failed to accomplish the
objects intended by the legislature. For, by a subsequent act,
approved May 21, 1885, and which took effect J-uly 1, 1885,
entitled "An act for the protection of the public health and
to prevent adulteration of dairy products and fraud in the sale
thereof," Laws of Pennsylvania, 1885, p. 22, No. 25, it was
provided, among other things, as follows:
"SEdTION 1. That no person, firm, or corporate body shall
manufacture out of any oleaginous substance or any compound
of the same, other than that produced from unadulterated
milk or of cream from the same, any article designed to take
the place of butter or cheese produced from pure unadulterated
milk or cream from the same, or of any imitation or adulterated butter or cheese, nor shall sell or offer for sale, or have in
his, her, or their possession, with intent to sell the same, as an
article of food.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

SEcTIoN 2. Every sale of such article or substance, which
is prohibited by the first section of this act, made after this
act shall take effect, is hereby declared to be unlawful and
void, and no action shall be maintained in any of the courts in
this State to recover upon any contract for the sale of any
such article or substance.
"SEcioN 3. Every person,- company, firm, or corporate
body who shall manufacture, sell, or offer or expose for sale
or have in his, her, or their possession with intent to sell, any
substance, the manufacture and sale of which is prohibited by
the first section of this act, shall, for every such offence, forfeit
and pay the sum of one hundred dollars, which shall be recoverable with costs by any person suing in the name of the
Commonwealth as debts of like amounts are by law recoverable; one-half of which sum, when so recovered, shall be paid
to the proper county treasurer for the use of the county in
which suit is brought and the other half to the person or persons at whose instance such a suit shall or may be commenced
and prosecuted to recovery.
"SEcTioN 4. Every person who violates the provisions of
the first section of this act, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars, nor more than three hundred,
or by imprisonment in the county jail for not less than ten nor
more than thirty days, or both such fine and imprisonment
for the first offence, and imprisonment for one year for every
subsequent offence."
The plaintiff in error was indicted, under the last statute,
in the Court of Quarter Sessions of the Peace in Dauphin
County, Pennsylvania. The charge in the first count of the
indictment is, that he unlawfully sold, "as an article of food,
two cases, containing five pounds each, of an article designed
to take the place of butter produced from pure, unadulterated
milk or cream from milk, the said article so sold, as aforesaid.
being an article manufactured out of certain oleaginous substances and compounds of the same other than that produced
from unadulterated milk or cream from milk, and said article
so sold, as aforesaid, being an imitation butter." In the

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

second count the charge is that he unlawfully had in his possession, "with intent to sell the same, as an article of food, a
quantity, viz., one hundred pounds, of imitation butter, designed to take the place of butter produced from pure, unadulterated milk or cream from the same, manufactured out of
certain oleaginous substances, or compounds of the same other
than that produced from milk or cream from the same."
It was agreed, for the purposes of the trial, that the defendant, on July 10, 1885, in the city of Harrisburg, sold to the
prosecuting witness, as an article of food, two original packages of the kind described in the first count; that such packages were sold and bought as butterine, and not as butter produced from pure, unadulterated milk or cream from unadulterated milk; and that each of said packages was, at the time
of sale, marked with the words, "Oleomargarine Butter,"
upon the lid and side in a straight line, in Roman letters half
an inch long.
It was also agreed that the defendant had in his possession
one hundred pounds of the same article, with intent to sell it
as an article of food.
This was the case made by the Commonwealth.
The defendant then offered to prove by Prof. Hugo Blanck
that he saw manufactured the article sold to the prosecuting
witness; that it was made from pure animal fats; that the
process of manufacture was clean and wholesome, the article
containing the same elements as dairy butter, the only difference between them being that the manufactured article contained a smaller proportion of the fatty substance known as
butterine; that this butterine existed in dairy butter in the
proportion of from three to seven per cent, and in the manufactured article in a smaller proportion, and was increased in
the latter by the introduction of milk and cream; that this
having been done, the article contained all the elements of
butter produced from pure unadulterated milk or cream from
the same except that the percentage of butterine was slightly
smaller; that the only effect of butterine was to give flavor to
the butter and that it had nothing to do with its wholesomeness; that the oleaginous substances in the manufactured arti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

cle were substantially identical with those produced from milk
or cream; and that the article sold to the prosecuting witness
was a wholesome and nutritious article of food, in all respects
as wholesome as butter produced from pure unadulterated
milk or cream from unadulterated milk.
The defendant also offered to prove that he was engaged
in the grocery and provision business in the city of 'Harris.burg, and that the article sold by him was part of a large
and valuable quantity manufactured prior to the 21st of May,
1885, in accordance with the laws of this Commonwealth relating to the manufacture and sale of said article, and so sold by
him; that for the purpose of prosecuting that business large
investments were made by him in the purchase of suitable
real estate, in the erection of proper buildings, and in the purchase of the necessary machinery and ingredients; that in his
traffic in said-article he made large profits; and, if prevented
from continuing it, the value of his property employed therein
would be entirely lost, and he be deprived of the means of
livelihood.
To each offer the Commonwealth objected upon the ground
that the evidence proposed to be introduced was immaterial
and irrelevant.
The purpose of these offers of proof was avowed to be:
(1) To show that the article sold was a new invention, not an
adulteration of dairy products, nor injurious to the public
health, but wholesome and nutritious as an article of food,
and that its manufacture and sale were in conformity to the
acts of May 22, 1878, and May 24, 1883. (2) To show that
the statute upon which the prosecution was founded, was unconstitutional, as not a lawful exercise of police power, and,
also, because it deprived the defendant of the lawful use "of
his property, liberty, and faculties, and destroys his property
without making compensation."
The court sustained the objection to each offer, and excluded
the evidence. An exception to that ruling was duly taken by
the defendant.
A verdict of guilty having been returned, and motions in
arrest of judgment and for a new trial having been overruled,

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant was adjudged to pay a fine of one hundred dollars and costs of prosecution, or give bail to pay the same in
ten days, and be in custody until the judgment was performed.
That judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
State. 114 Penn. St. 265.
This-case, in its important aspects, is governed by the principles announced in .Mugler v. IYansas, 123 U. S. 623.
It is immaterial to inquire whether the acts with which the
defendant is charged were authorized by the statute of May
22, 1878, or by that of May 24, 1883. The present prosecution is founded upon the statute of May 21, 1885; and if that
statute be not in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States, the judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
must be affirmed.
It is contended that the last statute is void in that it deprives all coming within its provisions of rights of liberty and
property without due process of law, and denies to them the
equal protection of the laws; rights which are secured by the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
It is scarcely necessary to say that if this statute is a legitimate exercise of the police power of the State for the protection of the health of the people, and for the prevention of
fraud, it is not inconsistent with that Amendment; for it is
the settled doctrine of this court that, as government is organized for the purpose, among others, of preserving the public
health and the public morals, it cannot divest itself of the
power to provide for those objects; and that the Fourteenth
Amendment was not designed to interfere with the exercise of
that power by the States. Alugler v. .Kansas, 123 U. S. 663;
Butch~ers' Union Co. v. Crescent City Co., 111 U. S. 746, 751;
Jfo v. Hopkins, 118
Badrbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Yi
U. S. 356.
The question, therefore, is whether the prohibition of the
manufacture out of oleaginous substances, or out of any compound thereof other than that produced from unadulterated
milk or cream from unadulterated milk, of an article designed
to take the place of butter or cheese produced from pure un-

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

adulterated milk or cream from unadulterated milk, or the
prohibition upon the manufacture of any imitation or adulterated butter or cheese, or upon the selling or offering for sale,
or having in possession with intent to sell, the same, as an
article of food, is a lawful exercise by the State of the power
to protect, by police regulations, the public health.
The main proposition advanced by the defendant is that his
enjoyment upon terms of equality with all others in similar
circumstances of the privilege of pursuing an ordinary calling
or trade, and of acquiring, holding, and selling property, is
an essential part of his rights of liberty and property, as
guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The court assents to this general proposition as embodying a sound principle of constitutional law. But it cannot adjudge that the
defendant's rights of liberty and property, as thus defined,
have been infringed by the statute of Pennsylvania, without
holding that, although it may have been enacted in good faith
for the objects expressed in its title, namely, to protest the
public health and to prevent the adulteration of dairy products and fraud in the sale thereof, it has, in fact, no real or
substantial relation to those objects. .Muglerv. .Kansas, 123
U. S.623, 661. The court is unable to affirm that this legislation has no real or substantial relation to such objects.
It will be observed that the offer in the court below was to
show by proof that the particular articles the defendant sold,
and those in his possession for sale, in violation of the statute,
were, in fact, wholesome or nutritious articles of food. It is
entirely consistent with that offer that many, indeed, that
most kinds of oleomargarine butter in the market contain
ingredients that are or may become injurious to health. The
court cannot say, from anything of which it may take judicial
cognizance, that such is not the fact. Under the circumstances disclosed in the record, and in obedience to settled
rules of constitutional construction, it must be assumed that
such is the fact. "Every possible presumption," Chief Justice
Waite said, speaking for the court in Sinking Fund Cases, 99
U. S. 700, 18, "is in favor of the validity of a statute, and this
continues until the contrary is shown beyond a rational doubt.

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Opinion of the Court.

One branch of the government cannot encroach on the domain of another without danger. The safety of our institutions depends in no small degree on a strict observance of this
salutary rule." See, also, Fletcherv. Pechk, 6 Cranch, 87, 128;
Dartmouth College v. TMoodward, 4 Wheat. 518, 625; Livingston. v. Darlington, -101 U. S. 407.
Whether the manufacture of oleomargarine, or imitation
butter, of the kind described in the statute, is, or may be, conducted in such a way, or with such skill and secregy, as to
baffle ordinary inspection, or whether it involves such danger
to the public health as to require, for the protection of the
people, the entire suppression of the business, rather than its
regulation in such manner as to permit the manufacture and
sale of articles of that class that do not contain noxious ingredients, are cuestions of fact and of public policy which belong
to the legislative department to determine. And as it does
not appear upon the face of the statute, or from any facts of
which the court must take judicial cognizance, that it infringes
rights secured by the fundamental law, the legislative determination of those questions is conclusive upon the courts. It
is not a part of their functions to conduct investigations of
facts entering into questions of public policy merely, and to
sustain or frustrate the legislative will, embodied in statutes,
as they may happen to approve or disapprove its determination of such questions. The power which the legislature has
to promote the general welfare is very great, and the discretion which that department of the government has, in the
employment of means to that end, is very large. While both
its power and its discretion must be so exercised as not to
impair the fundamental rights of life, liberty, and property;
and while, according to the principles upon which our institutions rest, "the very idea that one man may be compelled to
hold his life, or the means of living, or any material right
essential to the enjoyment of life, at the mere will of another,
seems to be intolerable in any country where freedom prevails,
as being the essence of slavery itself;" yet, "in many cases of
mere administration, the responsibility is purely political, no
appeal lying except to the ultimate tribunal of the public judg

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

ment, exercised either in the pressure of public opinion or by
means of the suffrage." Yik.Mo. v. Mopkinsi, 118 U. S. 370.
The case before us belongs to the latter class. The legislature
of Pennsylvania, upon the fullest investigation, as we must
conclusively presume, and upon reasonable grounds, as must
be assumed from the record, has determined that the prohibition of the sale, or offering for sale, or having in possession to
sell, for purposes of food, of any article manufactured out of
oleaginous substances or compounds other than those produced
from unadulterated milk or cream from unadulterated milk,
to take the place of butter produced from unadulterated milk
or cream from unadulterated milk, will promote the public
health, and prevent frauds in the sale of such articles. If all
that can be said of this legislation is that it is unwise, or un-necessarily oppressive to those manufacturing or selling wholesome oleomargarine, as an article of food, their appeal must
be to the legislature, or to the ballot-box, not to the judiciary.
The latter cannot interfere without usurping powers committed to another department of government.
I It is argued, in behalf of the defendant, that if the statute
in question is sustained as a valid exercise of legislative power,
,then nothing stands in the way of the destruction by the
legislative department of the constitutional guarantees of
liberty and property. But the possibility of the abuse of
legislative power does not disprove its existence. That possibility exists even in reference to powers that are conceded to
exist. Besides, the judiciary department is bound not to give
effect to statutory enactments that are plainly forbidden by
the Constitution. This duty, the court has said, is always one
of extreme delicacy; for, apart from the necessity of avoiding
conflicts between cobrdinate branches of the government,
whether state or national, it is often difficult to determine
whether such enactments are within the powers granted to or
possessed by the legislature. Nevertheless, if the incompatibility of the Constitution and the statute is clear or palpable,
the courts must give effect to the former. And such would be
the duty of the court if the state legislature, under the pretence of guarding the public health, the public morals, or the

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

public safety, should invade the rights of life, liberty, or property, or other rights, secured by the supreme law of the land.
The objection that the statute is repugnant to the clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment forbidding the denial by the State
to any person within its jurisdiction of the equal protection of
the laws, is untenable. The statute places under the same
restrictions, and subjects to like penalties and burdens, all who
manufacture, or sell, or offer for sale, or keep in possession to
sell, the articles embraced by its prohibitions; thus recognizing and preserving the principle of equality among those
engaged in the same business. Barbier v. Connolly, 113
U. S. 27; Soon ling v. Crowley, 113 U. S. 703; JMissouri
Pacific Railway Co. v. -Humes, 115 U. S.512, 519.
It is also contended that the act of May 21, 1885, is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment in that it deprives the
defendant of his property without that compensation required
by law. This contention is without merit, as was held in
itugler v. KansaS.
Upon the whole case, we are of opinion that there is no
error in the judgment, and it is, therefore,
Affirmed.
-R.JUSTICE FIELD

dissenting.

The plaintiff in error was indicted in one of the courts of
Pennsylvania for selling as an article of food two cases of oleomargarine butter, containing five pounds each, and was sentenced to pay a fine of one hundred dollars. The case being
taken to the Supreme Court of the State, the judgment was
affirmed, and to review it the case is brought to this court.
The statute, under which the conviction was had, was
passed on the 21st of May, 1885, and went into effect on the
first of July following. It declares in its first section: "That
no person, firm, or corporate body shall manufacture out of
any oleaginous substance, or any compound of the same, other
than that produced from unadulterated milk or cream from
the same, any article designed to take the place of butter or
cheese produced from pure, unadulterated milk, or cream from
the same, or of any imitation or adulterated butter or cheese,

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

nor shall sell or offer for sale, or have in his, her, or their possession with intent to sell the same as an article of food."
In another section the act made a violation of these provisions a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars, nor more than three hundred, or by imprisonment in the county jail for not less than ten or more than thirty
days, or both such fine and imprisonment for the first offence,
and imprisonment for one year for every subsequent offence.
The act, it is to be observed, is not designed to prevent any
deception in the manufacture and sale of the article of oleomargarine butter, or any attempt to pass it off as butter made
of milk or cream. The title would indicate that the act was
intended for the protection of the public health, and to prevent the adulteration of dairy products, and fraud in the sale
thereof. It is probable that the original draft of the act had
such a purpose, and that the title was allowed to remain, after
its body was changed. "Be this as it may, the act is one prohibiting the manufacture or sale, or keeping for sale, of the
article, though no concealment is attempted as to its character, nature, or ingredients. Its validity is rested simply upon
the fact that it has pleased the legislature of the Commonwealth to declare that the article shall not be manufactured
or sold or kept for sale within its limits. On the trial the
defendant offered to prove by competent witnesses that the
article manufactured was composed of ingredients perfectly
healthy, and was as wholesome and nutritious as butter produced from pure milk or cream. But the court refused to
allow the evidence, on the ground that it was immaterial and
irrelevant. It was sufficient, in its judgment, that the legislature had passed the act, to render a disregard of its provisions
a public offence.
The defendant also offered to prove that the article sold by
him was a part of a large and valuable quantity manufactured
prior to the passage of the act of IMay 21, 1885, in accordance
with the laws of the Commonwealth relating to the manufacture and sale of the article; but this offer was also rejected on
the same ground, as immaterial and irrelevant. The case is
therefore to be considered as if the proof offered had been received. Scotland County v. Hill, 112 U. S. 183, 186.

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

Two questions are thus distinctly presented: first, whether
a State can lawfully prohibit the manufacture of a healthy
and nutritious article of food designed to take the place of
butter, out of any oleaginous substance, or compound of the
same, other than that produced from pure milk or cream, and
its sale when manufactured? and, second, whether a State can,
without compensation to the owner, prohibit the sale of an
article of food, in itself healthy and nutritious, which has been
manufactured in accordance with its laws?
These questions are not presented in the opinion of the court
as nakedly and broadly as here stated, but they nevertheless
truly indicate the precise points involved, and nothing else.
Upon first impressions one would suppose that it would be a
matter for congratulation on the part of the State, that in the
progress of science a means had been discovered by which a
new article of food could be produced, equally healthy and
nutritious with, and less expensive than, one already existing,and for which it could be used as a substitute. Thanks and
rewards would seem to be the natural return for such a discovery, and the increase of the article by the use of the means
thereby encouraged. But not so thought the legislature of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. By the enactment in
question it declared that no article of food to take the place of
butter shall be manufactured out of any other oleaginous matter than that which is produced from pure milk or cream, or
be sold within its limits or kept for sale, under penalty of fine
and imprisonment.
If the first question presented can be answered, as it has
been by the court, in the affirmative, I do not see why it is
not equally within the competency of the legislature to forbid
the production and sale of any new article of food, though
composed of harmless ingredients, and perfectly healthy and
nutritious in its character; or even to forbid the manufacture
and sale of articles of prepared food now in general use, such as
extracts of beef and condensed milk, and the like, whenever it
may see fit to do so, its will in the matter constituting the only
reason for the enactment. The doctrine asserted is nothing
less than the competency of the legislature to prescribe out of
VOL. Cx.xVII-44

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

different articles of healthy and nutritious food, what shall be
manufactured and sold within its limits, and what shall not be
thus manufactured and sold. I have always supposed that the
gift of life was accompanied with the right to seek and produce food, by which life can be preserved and enjoyed, in all
ways not encroaching upon the equal rights of others. I have
supposed that the right to take all measures for the support of
life, which are innocent in themselves, is an element of that
freedom which every American citizen claims as his birthright.
I admit that previous to the adoption of the Fourteenth
Amendment of the Federal Constitution, the validity of such
legislation was to be determined by the constitution of the
State, and that its tribunals were the authoritative interpreters
of its meaning. This court could exercise no appellate jurisdiction over the judgments of the state courts in matters of
purely local concern. Their judgments in such cases were
final and conclusive. If the legislation of the State thus sustained was oppressive and unjust, the remedy could be found
only in subsequent legislation, brought about through the influence of wiser views and a more enlightened policy on the
part of the people. From the structure of our dual government, in which the United States exercise only such powers as
are expressly delegated to them by the Constitution, or necessarily implied, all others not prohibited to the States being
reserved to them respectively, or to the people, the great mass
of matters of local interest were necessarily subject to state
regulation, and whether that was wisely or unwisely enacted,
it was not a question which could come under the consideration of this court. The government created by the Constitution was not designed for the regulation of' matters purely
local in their character. The States required no aid from any
external authority to manage their domestic affairs. It was
only for matters which affected all the States or which could
not be managed by them in their individual capacity, or managed only with great difficulty and embarrassment, that a
general and common government was desired.
Only such
powers of internal regulation were, therefore, conferred as
were essential to the successful and efficient working of the

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

government established, to facilitate intercourse and commerce
between the people of different States, and to secure to them
equality of protection in the several States; and only such restraints were placed upon the action of the States as would
prevent conflict with its authority, secure the fulfilment of
contract obligations, and insure protection against punishment
by legislative decree or by retrospective legislation. By the
first section of the Fourteenth Amendment, which had its
origin in the new conditions and necessities growing out of the
late civil war, further restraints were placed upon the power
of the States in some particulars, a disregard of which subjected their action to review by this court. That section is as
follows :
"All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United
States and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall
make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or
immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any
State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without
due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws."
It is the clause declaring that no State shall "deprive any
person of life, liberty, or property without due process of
law," which applies to the present case. This provision is
found in the constitutions of nearly all the States, and was desigmed to prevent the arbitrary deprivation of life and liberty,
and the arbitrary spoliation of property. As I said on a
former occasion, it means that neither can be taken, or the
enjoyment thereof impaired, except in the course of the regular administration of the law in the established tribunals. It
has always been supposed to secure to every person the essential conditions for the pursuit of happiness, and is therefore
not to be construed in a narrow or restricted sense. .F parte
Firginia,100 U. S. 339,366.
'By "1liberty," as thus used, is meant something more than
freedom from physical restraint or imprisonment. It means
freedom not merely to go wherever one may choose, but to do
such acts as he may judge best for his interest not inconsistent

OCTOBER TERAI, 1887.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

with the equal .rights of others; that is, to follow such pursuits as may be best adapted to his faculties, and which will
give to him the highest enjoyment. As said by the Court of
Appeals of New York, in People v. .afarx, "the term ' liberty,'
as protected by the Constitution, is not cramped into a mere
freedom from physical restraint of the person of the citizen,
as by incarceration, but is deemed to embrace the right of
man to be free in the enjoyment of the faculties with which
he has been endowed by his Creator, subject only to such
restraints as are necessary for the common welfare," 99 N. Y.
371, 386 ; and again, In the matter of Jacobs: "Liberty, in its
broad sense, as understood in this country, means the right
not only of freedom from actual servitude, imprisonment, or
restraint, but the right of one to use his faculties, in all lawful
ways, to live and work where he will, to earn his livelihood
in any lawful calling, and to pursue any lawful trade or vocation." 98 N. Y. 98.
With the gift of life there necessarily goes to every one the
right to do all such acts, and follow all such pursuits, not
inconsistent with the equal rights of others, as may support
life and add to the happiness of its possessor. The right to
pursue one's happiness is placed by the Declaration of Independence among the inalienable rights of man, with which all
men are endowed, not by the grace of emperors or kings, or
by force of legislative or constitutional enactments, but by
their Creator; and to secure them, not to grant them, governments are instituted among men. The right to procure
healthy and nutritious food, by which life may be preserved
and enjoyed, and to manufacture it, is among these inalienable
rights, which, in my judgment, no State can give and no State
can take away except in punishment for crime. It is involved
in the right to pursue one's happiness. This doctrine is happily expressed and illustrated in People v. Marx, cited above,
where the precise question here was presented. That case
arose upon an indictment for a violation of a provision of an
act of the legislature of New York, entitled "An act to prevent deception in the sale of dairy products," a section of
which was almost identical in language with the first section

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

of the act of the legislature of Pennsylvania under consideration. The defendant was convicted by the Court of General
Sessions of New York. The conviction was affirmed by the
General Term of the Supreme Court, and from that decision
an appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals, where the judgment was reversed. The court was of opinion that the object
and effect of the act, notwithstanding its title, was, not to
supplement existing provisions against fraud and deception by
means of imitation of dairy butter, but to prohibit the manufacture and sale of any article which could be used as a substitute for it, however openly and fairly the character of the
substitute might be avowed and published, to drive the substituted article from the market and protect those engaged
in the manufacture of dairy products against the competition
of cheaper substances capable of being applied to the same
uses as articles of food. At the trial, and on the argument of
the appeal, the ground was taken that, if such were the case,
the manufacture or sale of any oleaginous compound, however
pure and wholesome, as an article of food, if it was designed
to take the place of dairy butter, was by that act made a
crime, and the court said: "The result of the argument is,
that if, in the progress of science, a process is discovered of
preparing beef tallow, lard, or any other oleaginous substance,
and communicating to it a palatable flavor, so as to render it
serviceable, as a substitute for dairy butter, and equally nutritious and valuable, and the article can be produced at a comparatively small cost, which will place it within the reach of
those who cannot afford to buy dairy butter, the ban of this
statute is upon it. Whoever engages in the business of manufacturing or selling the prohibited product is guilty of a crime;
the industry must be suppressed; those who could make a
livelihood by it are deprived of that privilege; the capital
invested in the business must be sacrificed, and such of the
people of the State as cannot afford to buy dairy butter
must eat their bread unbuttered." And after referring to
the state constitution, which provides that no member of
the State shall be disfranchised, or be deprived of any of the
rights and privileges secured to any citizen thereof, unless by

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

the law of the land, or the judgment of his peers; and to the
clause which declares that no person shall be deprived of life,
liberty, or property without due process of law; and to the
first section of the article ot the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Federal Constitution, the court said: "These constitutional
safeguards have been so thoroughly discussed in recent cases
that it would be superfluous to do more than refer to the conclusions which have been reached, bearing upon the question
now under consideration. Among these, no proposition is now
more firmly settled than that it is one of the fundamental
,rights and privileges of every American citizen to adopt and
follow such lawful industrial pursuit, not injurious to the community, as he may see fit." And, referring to various decisions
as to the meaning of liberty, among which was one that the
right to liberty embraces the right of man "to exercise his
faculties and to follow a lawful vocation for the support of
life," the court said: "Who will have the temerity to say that
these constitutional principles are not violated by an enactment
which absolutely prohibits an important branch of industry for
the sole reason that it competes with another, and may reduce
the price of an article of food for the human race? Measures
of this kind are dangerous even to their promoters. If the
argument of the respondent in support of the absolute power
of the legislature to prohibit one branch of industry for the
purpose of protecting another, with which it competes, can be
sustained, why could not the oleomargarine manufacturers,
should they obtain sufficient power to influence or control the
legislative councils, prohibit the manufacture or sale of dairy
products? Would arguments then be found wanting to demonstrate the invalidity under the Constitution of such an act?
The principle is the same in both cases. The numbers engaged
,upon each side of the controversy cannot influence the question
here. Equal rights to all are what are intended to be secured
by the establishment of constitutional limits to legislative
power, and impartial tribunals to enforce them."
The answer made to all this reasoning, and this decision, is,
that the act of Pennsylvania was passed in the exercise of its
police power; meaning by that term its power to provide

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

for the health of the people of the State. Undoubtedly, this
power of a State extends to all regulations affecting not only
the health, but the good order, morals, and safety of society;
but a law does not necessarily fall under the class of police
regulations, because it is passed under the pretence of such
regulation, as in this case, by a false title, purporting to protect the health and prevent the adulteration of dairy products,
and fraud in the sale thereof. It must have in its provisions
some relation to the end to be accomplished. If that which
is forbidden is not injurious to the health or morals of the
people, if it does not disturb their peace or menace their
safety, it derives no validity by calling it a police or health
law. Whatever name it may receive, it is nothing less than
an unwarranted interference with the rights and the liberties
of the citizen. In the matter of Jacobs, the lam passed was
entitled "An act to improve the public health by prohibiting
the manufacture of cigars and preparation of tobacco in any
form in tenement houses in certain cases, and regulating the
use of tenement houses in certain cases." It prohibited the
manufacture of cigars or preparation of tobacco in any form
on any floor or in any part of any floor in any tenement
house, if such floor or part of such floor was occupied by any
person as a home or residence for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or doing any household work therein; and declared that every person who was guilty of a violation of the
act, or of having caused another person to commit such violation, should be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished
by a fine of not less than ten dollars or more than one hundred dollars, or by imprisonment for not less than ten days or
more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
The tenement house used had four floors and seven rooms on
each floor, and each floor was occupied by one family, living
independently of the others, and doing its cooking in one of the
rooms thus occupied. Jacobs was engaged in one of his rooms
in preparing tobacco and making cigars, but there was no
smell of tobacco in any part of the house except in that room.
For this violation of the act he was arrested. A writ of
habeas copus sued out in the court below for his discharge

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

was dismissed at the special term of the Supreme Court. On
appeal to the General Term this order was reversed, and the
case was taken to the Court of Appeals. There the claim was
made that the legislature passed this act in the exercise of its
police power; but the court said in answer: "Generally it is
for the legislature to determine what laws and regulations are
needed to protect the public health and secure the public comfort and safety; and while its measures are calculated, intended, convenient, and appropriate to accomplish these ends,
the exercise of its discretion is not subject to review by the
courts. But they must have some relation to these ends. Under
the mere guise of police regulations, personal rights and private
property cannot be arbitrarily invaded, and the determination
of the legislature is not final and conclusive. If it passes an
act ostensibly for the public health and thereby destroys
or takes away the property of a citizen, and interferes with
his personal liberty, then it is for the courts to scrutinize the
act and see whether it really relates to and is convenient and
appropriate to promote the public health. It matters not that
the legislature may, in the title to the act, or in its body,
declare that it is intended for the improvement of the public
health. Such a declaration does not conclude the courts, and
they must yet determine the fact declared and enforce the
supreme law." And the court concluded an extended consideration of the subject by declaring that, when a health law is
challenged in the courts as unconstitutional, on the ground
that it arbitrarily interferes with personal liberty and private
property without due process of law, the court must be able to
see that it has in fact some relation to the public health, that the
public health is the end aimed at, and that it is appropriate and
adapted to that end; and as it could not see that the law in
question forbidding the cigarmaker from plying his trade in his
own room in the tenement house, when allowed to follow it
elsewhere, was designed to promote the public health, it pronounced the law unconstitutional and void. If the courts
could not in such cases examine into the real character of the
act, but must accept the declaration of the legislature as conelusive, the most valued rights of the citizen would be subject

POWELL v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

to the arbitrary control of a temporary majority of such
bodies, instead of being protected by the guarantees of the
Constitution. In the recent prohibition cases from Kansas
this court, after stating that it belonged to the legislative department to determine primarily what measures are appropriate or needful for the protection of the public morals, the
public health, or the public safety, added: "It does not at all
follow that every statute enacted ostensibly for the promotion
of these ends is to be accepted as a legitimate exertion of the
police powers of the State. There are of necessity limits
The
beyond which legislation cannot rightfully go. . .
courts are not bound by mere form, nor are they to be misled
by mere pretences. They are. at liberty - indeed, are under
a solemn duty - to look at the substance of things, whenever
they enter upon the inquiry whether the legislature has transcended the limits of its authority.- If, therefore, a statute
purporting to have been enacted to protect the public health,
the public morals, or the public safety has no real or substantial relation to those objects, or is a palpable invasion of rights
secured by the fundamental law, it is the duty of the courts to
so adjudge, and thereby give effect to the Constitution."
.Hugler v. -Yansas,123 U. S. 623, 661.
In Watertown v. .ayo, the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, speaking of the police power of the State, said: "The
law will not allow rights of property to be invaded under the
guise of a police regulation for the preservation of the health,
or protection against a threatened nuisance; and when it
appears that such is not the real object and purpose of the
regulation the courts will interfere to protect the rights of
citizens." 109 Mass. 315, 319. It would seem that under the
constitutions of the States no legislature should be permitted,
under the pretence of a police regulation, to encroach upon
any of the just rights of the citizen intended to be secured
thereby. Be this as it may, certain it is that no State can,
under any pretence or guise whatever, impair any such rights
of the citizen which the fundamental law of the United States
has' declared shall neither be destroyed nor abridged. 'Were
this not so, the protection which the Constitution designed to

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Dissenting Opinion; Field, J.

secure would be lost, and the rights of the citizen would be
subject to the control of the state legislatures, which would
in such matters be practically omnipotent. What greater
invasion of the rights of the citizen can be conceived, than to
prohibit him from producing an article of food, conceded to
be healthy and nutritious, out of designated substances, in
themselves free from any deleterious ingredients? The prohibition extends to the manufacture of an article of food out of
any oleaginous substances, or compounds of the same, not
produced from milk or cream, to take the place of butter or
cheese. There are many oleaginous substances in the vegetable as well as the animal world, besides milk and cream, but
,out of none of them shall anyr citizen of the United States
within the limits of Pennsylvania be permitted to produce
such an article of food for public consumption. Only out of
pure milk or cream shall that article be made, notwithstanding the vast means for its production furnished by the vegetable as well as by the animal kingdom. The full force of
the doctrine asserted will be apparent if the extent is considered to which it may be applied. The prohibition may be
extended to the manufacture and sale of other articles of
food, of articles of raiment and fuel, and even of objects of
eonvenience. Indeed, there is no fabric or product, the texture or ingredients of which the legislature may not prescribe
by inhibiting the manufacture and sale of all similar articles
not composed of the same materials.
The answer to the second question is equally conclusive
against the decision of the court. In prohibiting the sale of
the article which had been manufactured by the defendant
pursuant to the laws of the State, the legislature necessarily
destroyed its mercantile value. If the article could not be
used without injury to the health of the community, as would
be the case perhaps if it had become diseased, its sale might
not only be prohibited but the article itself might be destroyed. But that is not this case. Here the article was
healthy and nutritious, in no respect injuriously affecting the
health of any one. It was manufactured pursuant to the laws
of the State. I do not, therefore, think the State could forbid

POWELL 'v. PENNSYLVANIA.
Dissenting Opinion: Field, J.

its sale or use ; clearly not without compensation to the owner.
Regulations of its sale and restraints against its improper use
undoubtedly could be made, as they may be made with respect to all kinds of property; but the prohibition of its use
and sale is nothing less than confiscation. As I said in Bartemeyer v. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129, 137, with reference to intoxicating liquors, so I say with reference to this property, I have
no doubt of the power of the State to regulate its sale, when
such regulation does not amount to the destruction of the
right of property in it. "The right of property in an article
involves the right to sell and dispose of such article as well as
to use and enjoy it. Any act which declares that the owner
shall neither sell it nor dispose of it, nor use and enjoy it, confiscates it, depriving him of his property without due process
of law. Against such arbitrary legislation by any State the
Fourteenth Amendment affords protection. 1But the prohibition of sale in any way or for any use is quite a different
thing from a regulation of the sale or use so as to protect the
health and morals of the community." The fault which I
find with the opinion of the court on this head is that it
ignores the distinction between regulation and prohibition.

WALKER

V.

PENNSYLVANIA,

NO.

1303.

Error to the Supreme

Court of the State of Pennsylvania. Argued January 4, 1888.
Decided April 9, 1888. MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion

of the court. The questions presented in this case do not differ, in
any material respect, from those determined in POWELL, V. PENSYLVANIA, just decided. The principles announced in that case
necessarily require an affirmance of the judgment below.

Affirmed.
31R. JUSTICE FIELD

dissented.

X3fr. D. T. Watson and .11r. TV.B. Rodgers for plaintiffs in error.
Mr.. Wayne Mo Veagh for defendant in error.

