OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

road Conpany, 118 U. S. 394; Pembina Consolidated Silver
.Xining and iiling Co. v. Pennsylvania, 125 IT. S. 187. But
the hazardous character of the business of operating a railway
would seem to call for special legislation with respect to railroad corporations, having for its object the protection of their
employes as well as the safety of the public. The business of
other corporations is not subject to similar dangers to their
employes, and no objections, therefore, can be made to the
legislation on the ground of its making an unjust discrimination. It meets a particular necessity, and all railroad corporations axe, without distinction, made subject to the same
liabilities. As said by the court below, it is simply a question
of legislative discretion whether the same liabilities shall be
applied to carriers by canal and stage coaches and to persons
and corporations using steam in manufactories. See 2Lissouri
Pacific Railway Co. v. Hfumes, 115 U. S. 512, 523; Barbier
v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27; Soon fing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.
-703.
Judgment affirmed.

MINNEAPOLIS AND ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. HERRICK.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MIINESOTA.
Wo. 202. Argued April 2, 3,1888. -Decided

April 23, 1888.

This case is affirmed on the authority of Missouri Pacific Railway Co. v.
Mackey, ante, 205.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. C.K. Davis for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. -Edward THill for defendant in error.
Mm.

JusTICEF FIELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant is a corporation created under the laws of
:Minnesota, and in December, 1881, it operated a railroad ex-

MINNEAPOLIS &c. RAILWAY CO. V. HERRICK. 211
Opinion of the Court.

tending from Minneapolis, in that State, to Fort Dodge, in
Iowa. A law of Iowa, then in force, provides that "every
corporation operating a railway shall be liable for all damages
sustained by any person, including employ~s of such corporation, in consequence of the neglect of agents, or by any mismanagement of the engineers or other employ~s of the corporation, and in consequence of the wilful wrongs, whether of
commission or omission, of such agents, engineers, or other
employ~s, when such wrongs are in any manner connected
with the use and operation of any railway on or about which
they shall be employed, and no contract which restricts such
liability shall be legal or binding."
On the 6th of December, 1881, the plaintiff was employed
by the defendant as a brakeman on one of its cars, and on
that day, in Webster, in Iowa, it became his duty to make a
coupling of an engine and a freight car. The engine was in
charge of one of its employ~s, an engineer, and whilst the
plaintiff was making the coupling the engine was, by the negligence and mismanagement of the engineer, driven against
the car, causing severe and permanent injuries to the plaintiff.
To recover damages for the injuries thus sustained he brought
this action in a District Court of Minnesota, relying upon the
law of Iowa quoted above. The defendant in its answer
alleged, and on the trial contended, that this law was abrogated
by that provision of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which declares that no State
shall deprive any person of property without due process of
law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal
protection of the laws. The District Court held the law to be
in full force, and that under it the railroad company was
responsible to the plaintiff for the injuries sustained by him
through the negligence of the engineer. The plaintiff accordingly recovered a verdict for two thousand dollars, upon which
judgment was entered. Upon appeal to the State Supreme
Court the judgment was affirmed, and to review that judgment the case is brought here.
We have just decided the case of .fissouri Paoiow Railway
Co. v. .Mackey, ante, 205, where similar objections were raised

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

to a law of Kansas, which on the point here involved is not
essentially different from the law of Iowa, namely, in imposing liabilities upon railroad companies for injuries to employ~s
in its service, though caused by the negligence or incompetency of a fellow-servant, and we held that the law was not
in conflict with the clauses referred to in the Fourteenth
Amendment. On the authority of that case the judgment in
the present one must be

UNITED STATES v. BROADHEAD.
UNITED STATES v. BIROADHEAD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
-os. 233, 234.

Argued April 18, 1888.-Decided April 30, 1888.

On the authority of United States v. Hill, 123 U. S. 681, it is held, that au
action against sureties to recover on a bail bond conditioned for the
appearance of the principal to answer to an indictment for making and
forging checks against an assistant treasurer is not a case for the
enforcement of a revenue law, within the intent of Rev. Stat. ยง 699.
No interest can be recovered in an action by the United States upon a bail
bond conditioned for the appearance of a person to answer to an indictment for forgery.

THnESE were actions against sureties on bail bonds. The case
is stated in the opinion of the court.

.Mr. Awistant Attorney General 2Maury for plaintiff in
error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE

MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.

These cases are suits brought upon two bonds given by
John F. Broadhead and his sureties, conditioned for his appearance in the District Court of the United States for the

