FLOWER v. DETROIT.
Opinion of the Court.

FLOWER v. DETROIT.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOI
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF AICHIGAN.
No. 203. Argued Apri! 3, 1888. -Decided

May 14, 1888.

Claim 1 of reissued letters patent No. 6990, granted March 14, 1876, to
Thomas R. Bailey, Jr., for an "improvement in hydrants," namely, "In
combination with a hydrant or fire-plug, a detached and surrounding
casing C, said casing adapted to bave an independent up and down motion sufficient to receive the entire movement imparted by the upheaval
of the surrounding earth by freezing, without derangement or disturbance of the hydrant or plug proper, substantially as shown," is invalid,
as being an unlawful expansion of the original patent.
The drawing of the original patent was materially altered, and new matter
was introduced into the specification of the reissue.
The decision in Parker& Whpple Co. v. Yale Clock Co., 123 U. S. 87, applied
to this case.
In the present case the reissue was not applied for until nearly eight years
after the original patent was granted, and the reissue was taken with the
manifest intention of covering, by an enlarged claim, structures which
in the meantime had gone into extensive public use, and which were not
covered by any claim of the original patent.
Claim 3 of the reissue, namely, "The combination of the hydrant or fireplug pipe A, supply pipe B, valve D, casing C, and stuffing-box H, substantially as and for the purpose'shown," is either an unlawful expansion,
in regard to the casing, of what is found in the original patent, or, if
construed narrowly, in regard to the casing, is anticipated, on the question of novelty.
IN EQUITY, for the infringement of letters patent. Decree
dismissing the bill. Complainants appealed. The case is stated
in the opinion.

Xr. Edward J. Hill for appellants.
.Mr. George L. Roberts for appellees.
Mr. JUSTIE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of

the court.

This is a suit in equity, brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, by James

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

Flower, Thomas Flower, and George Flower, against the City
of 'Detroit, the Fire Commission of the City of Detroit, Benjamin Vernon, president thereof, and the Board of Water
Commissioners of the City of Detroit, for the infringement of
reissued letters patent No. 6990, granted March 14, 1876, on
an application filed February 17, 1876, to Thomas IR.Bailey,
Jr., for an "improvement in hydrants," the original patent,
No. 75,344, having been granted to said Bailey, -March 10,
1868. Among the defences set, up in the answer, it was
alleged that new matter, not constituting any substantial part
of the alleged invention upon which the original patent was
granted, was introduced into the specification of the reissue,
and that the reissue is not for the same invention as the
original patent, and is void.
The specifications and claims of the original and of the
reissue are -here placed side by side in parallel columns, the
parts in' each which are not found in the other being in italic.
Original.
all whom it may concern:
,Be it known that I, T. R.
Bailey, Jr., of Lockport, in
the county of Niagara, and
State of New York, have invented a new and improved
hydrant fire-plug; and I do
hereby declare that the following is a full, clear and exact
description thereof, which will
enable those skilled in the art
to make and use the same,
reference being had to the accompanying drawings, forming part of this specification.
"To

Reissue.

"To all whom'it may con-

cern:
-Be it known that I, T. R.
Bailey, Jr., of Lockport, in
the county of Niagara, and
State of New York, have invented a new and improved
hydrant fire-plug; and I do
hereby declare the following
to be a full, clear and exact
description thereof, which will
enable others skilled in the art
to which my i vention relates

to make and use the same,
reference being had to the accompanying drawing, which

forms a part of this specification.
This invention relates to
This invention relates to a

FLOWER v. DETROIT.
Opinion of the Court.

new and improved method of
constructing fire-plugs or hydrants; and the invention econsists in operating a cylindervalve in a suitable case, andin
the arrangementand combination of parts connected therewith, as hereinafter described.
Figure 1 represents a longitudinal central section of the
hydrant, showing theparts of
which it is composed and the
manner of their arrangement.
Fig. 2 is a cross-section of Fig.
1 through the line w x.
Similar letters of reference
indicate correspondingparts.

A represents the hydranttube, from which the water is
discharged. B is the horizontal section which is connected
with the 'water-main,' and
which forms the valve-chamber.
0 is a loose casing around
the hydrant-tube, for protecting the tubefrom dirt, etc. D
is the cylinder-valve, which
has its seat at its lower end,
on elastic or leather packing,
secured in a groove, as seen in
the drawing at a. E is a rod,
having a screw thread on its
upper end, by which the valve

improvements in the construction of fire-plugs or hydrants.

In the drawing, Figure 1
represents a longitudinal central section of a hydrant according to my invention;
Fig. 2, a cross-section of the
same through lines w w of
Fig. 1.
My invention consists in the
following parts and combinations, as hereinafter specified
and claimed, wherein
A represents- the hydranttube, from which water is discharged. B is the horizontal
section which is connected
with the water-main, and
which may form the valvechamber.
0 is a loose movable casing
around the hydrant-tube. D
is the cylinder-valve, having
its seat at its lower end, upon
suitable elastic packing, secured in a groove, as shown at
a. E is a rod, having a screw
thread on its upper end, by
which the valve is operated.
F is a sleeve-nut engaged with

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

is operated. F is a sleeve-nut,
which engages with the screw
on the rod, raisingand lowering it as the nut is turned.
This nut is turned by a wrench
on the head G.
The sleeve-nut is secured in
the cap of the hydrant by a
collar, and packing under the
hollow cylinder stuffing-box
H, as seen in the drawing. J
is a yoke, which is attached
to the rod E by a set-screw,
and which is secured in the
tube A, and prevented from
turning, as it moves up and
down, by projecting lugs, as
seen in Fig. 2; and it will be
seen that the arrangement is
such that the rod and valve
may be raised and lowered
without being rotated. This
secures a uniform and perfect
bearing of the valve on its
seat, the packing a remaining
undisturbed.
Provision is made for the
discharge of the waste water
by an orifice beneath the valve
D, markedf, which orifice is
opened and closed by a valve
nmarked g, as seen in the drawing. h is a wing on the top
of this valve.
As the cylinder-valve D descends the angular flange i on
its inside strikes the wing h
and raises the valve, as seen

the screw-nut on the rod E,
lifting and lowering said rod
as the nut is turned one way
or another. This nut is turned
by a wrench or crank, or othe't
suitable device on the head G.
The sleeve-nut is screwed in
the cap of the hydrant by a
collar, and packing under the
hollow cylinder stuffing-box
H. J is a yoke, which is attached to the rod E by a setscrew, or its eguivalent, and it
is screwed in the tube A, and
prevented from turning, as it
moves up and down, by projecting lugs, as shown, in. detail
at Fig. 2. It will be noticed
that the arrangement is such
that the rod and valve may
be raised and lowered without
being rotated, thus securing a
uniform and perfect bearing
of the valve on its seat, the
packing a remaining undisturbed.
Provision is made for the
discharge of the waste water
by an orifice, f, beneath the
valve D, which orifice is
opened and closed by a valve
g. A wing h is provided upon
the top of this valve.
As the cylinder-valve D descends, the angular flange i on
its inside, striking the wing h,
raises the valve, as shown in

FLOWER v. DETROIT.
Opinion of the Court.

in the drawing, thus allowing
any water which may remain
in the hydrant to escape
through the orificef and aperture k. It will be thus seen
that no water will be left in
the hydrant to freeze in cold
weather.
The tube A is secured to
the horizontal section B by a
ring-nut, mn, which contains
recesses for packing-rings around the valve, as seen at n n.
Packing around the valve is
secured by another ring-nut
o, and also under the end of
the tube A, as seen in the
drawing.
P represents the dischargepipe, with a screw for the attachment of the hose, and a
cap-piece for covering the pipe
when the hydrant is not in
use.

the drawing, and allows any
water which may remain in
the hydrant to escape down
through the orifice f and aperture -, thus preventing any
retention of water above the
freezing level.
The tube A' is secured to
the horizontal section B by a
ring-nut, m, which contains
recesses for packing-rings around the valve, as shown at
n. Packing about the valve
is also secured by another ringnut o, and also under the end
of the tube A, as shown in the
drawings.
P represents the dischargepipe, with a screw for the attachment of the hose, and a
cap-piece for covering the pipe
when the hydrant is not in
use.
It will be observed that the
casing C loosely rests upon the
main B, orpon a branch projecting upwardfrom the same.
This casing extends upw'ard,
enveloping the main portion
of the water:ppe A, at least
thatpvortion which is subterranean. Said casing extends
upwards and Jets loosely about
the plug or hydrant at the portion A'. Above the upper terminus of the casing C is p ovided the bead a upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

hydrant proper. Suffcient
space is left between the bead a
and the upper terminus of tMe
casing C to permit of sufficient
up-and-down,play of the said
casing C, for the purpose
which will hereafter more
fully appear. Ths distance
between the bead and casing
may be adjustedto any desired
distance, thus lengthening or
shortening it, by means of its
screw attachment at its base.

The main function of the
casing C is to prevent derangement of parts during cold
weather by the ground alternately freezing and thawing
around the hydrant or plugThisprocessoffreezing causes
the surrounding earth, by its
expansion, to lift or upheave,,
and thus be liable to derange
the hydrant orplug. This upheaval or movement is received
by the casing C, which, by its
capability of slidingloosely up
and down, will accommodate
the upheavaZ of the earth above
mentioned, without any liability to derange the plug or
hydrant. This is the chief
function of the casing C, although it likewise serves the
purpose of protection to the
waterpipe A.
What I claim isRaving thus described my

invention, I claim as new and

FLOWER v. DETROIT.
Opinion of the Court.

desire to secure by Letters
Patent1. A hydrant or water plug,
constructed substantially as
shown and described,- that is
to say, with the parts A and B
connected together, as shown,

and with a cylinder-valve and
a waste-water valve connected
and operated in combination
substantially as herein speci-

fmed.
2. The arrangement of the
parts A, B, valve D, case 0,
and stuffing-box H, as herein
described,for the purpose spec-

ified."

1. In combination with a
hydrant orfrteplug,a detached
and surrounding casing C,
said casingadapted to have an
independent up-and-down motion, sujflcient to receive the
entire movement imparted by
the upheaval of the surrounding earth by freezing, without
derangement or disturbance of
the hydrant or _plug proper,
substantiallyas shown.
2. In combination with a
hydrant or fire-plug pipe A,
the supply:p~pe B, and cylinder-valve and waste-valve,
connected and operated substantially as herein shown and
described.
3. The combination of the
hydrant or fireplug p'pe A,
sTply-pipe B, valve D, casing
0, and stuffing-box H, substantially as and for the purpose shown."

The drawings of the original and of the reissue are also
here [see next page] placed side by side:
The material difference between the descriptive parts of the
two specifications is that, in the reissue, it is stated that the
casing 0 is movable, and that sufficient space is left between
the bead a upon the hydrant proper, and the upper terminus
of the casing C, to permit of sufficient up-and-down play of
the casing C to allow it to slide loosely up and down, to accommodate the upward and downward movement of the
earth during the process of freezing and thawing, without any

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

liability to derange the plug or hydrant. The casing could
not thus slide loosely up and down, unless sufficient space were
left between the bead a and the upper terminus of the casing.
No suggestion of such arrangement is found in the specification of the original patent, and the drawing of that patent
shows no space between the upper terminus of the casing and

FLOWER v. DETROIT.
Opinion of the Court.

the bead or flange above it. This is new matter introduced
into the specification of the reissue, contrary to the express
inhibition of ยง 4916 of the Revised Statutes.
Claim 1 of the reissue is for an invention not indicated or
suggested in the original patent, namely, the independent upand-down motion of the casing. In addition to this, the drawing of the original patent shows a close contact between the
top of the casing and the bead or flange above it, so as absolutely to forbid any such independent up-and-down motion of
the casing as is covered by the first claim of the reissue, while
the drawing, Figure 1, of the reissue, shows a sufficient space
between the top of the casing and the bead or flange above it
to admit of such independent up-and-down motion.
Issue having been joined, proofs were taken on both sides,
and the Circuit Court entered a decree dismissing the bill,
from which the plaintiffs have appealed. Its opinion accompanies the record, and is reported in 22 Fed. Rep. 292. It
held that the reissued patent was invalid, as matter of law,
upon a comparison of the original with the reissue. We concur in this view.
It is sought to sustain the validity of the reissue by attempting to show that the model filed in the Patent Office with the
original application exhibited the invention covered by the
first claim of the reissue. It is doubtful whether that fact is
satisfactorily established. But, irrespective of this, the case
falls directly within the recent decision of this court in Park7er
& Ifhiffle Co. v. Yale 0ock Co., 123 U. S. 87. It was
held in that case, that what was suggested in the original
specification, drawings, or patent office model is not to be considered as a part of the invention intended to have been covered by the original patent, unless it can be seen from a
comparison of the two patents that the invention which the
original patent was intended to cover embraced the things
thus suggested or indicated in the original specification, drawings, or patent office model, and unless the original specification indicated that those things were embraced in the invention intended to have been secured by the original patent.
(See, also, fHoskin v. Fisher, 125 U. S. 217.) In the present

OCTOBER TERMI,

1887.

Syllabus.

case, it cannot be seen from a comparison of the two patents
that the original specification indicated that what is covered by
the first claim of the reissue was intended to have been secured
by the original.
In the present case, also, the reissue was not applied for
until nearly eight years after the original patent was granted,
and the reissue was taken with the manifest intention of covering, by an enlarged claim, structures which in the meantime
had gone into extensive public use, and which were not covered by any claim of the original patent.
Infringement is alleged only of claims 1 and 3 of the reissue. As to the casing C of the third claim, it cannot, any
more than the casing C of the first claim, be held to cover
a casing which has the independent up-and-down motion
referred to. Such casing must be construed to be the casing
exhibited in the drawing annexed to the original patent, that
is, one in which the up-and-down play is restricted by the
overlapping bead or flange. On any other construction, claim
3 is an unlawful expansion, in regard to the casing, of what is
found in the original patent. In addition to this, if the casing of claim 3 is only a casing which has no end play, it isanticipated by what is shown in letters patent No. 19,206,
granted to Race and Mathews, January 26, 1858, which patent
was the subject of the decision of this court in Mathews v.
.Machine Co., 105 U. S. 54.
The decree of the Circuit Court is a'ffrmed.

ARTHUR'S EXECUTORS v. VIETOR.
ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 268. Argued May 2,3,1888. -Decided

May 14,1888.

Hosiery, composed of wool and cotton, was imported in 1873. The collector assessed the duties at 35 per cent ad valorem, and 50 cents a
pound, less 10 per cent, under ยง 2 of the act of March 2d, 1867, c.

