LAWRENCE v. MERRITT.
Counsel for Parties.

In point offact, however, it assumed jurisdiction and decided the case on its merits. This, in our opinion, it had
no authority to do. -Forthat reason and to that extent the
decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the bill generally
must be modified so as to dismiss the bill as against the
County of Bourbon and the County Commissioners of
that county, 'withoutprejudice to the right of the complainant, on obtaining a proper assignment and authorityfrom
the railroad company to proceed at law in its name, to
obtain the issue and delivery of the bonds described in the
bill of complaint; and retaining the bill, if the complainant elects and shows itself entitled, as to the -FortScott,
Rurboldt and Western, Railroad Company, for relief
against it alone, for an assignment of its right to the issue
and delivery of the bonds of the county, and to the use
of its name in a proceeding againstthe county andits commissionersfor the enforcement of such right. it is accord-

ingly so ordered.

LAWRENCE v. MERRITT.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 213. Argued April 10, 1888.-Decided April 23, 1888.

Tissue paper, mainly if not exclusively used for making letter-press copies
of letters or written matter, when imported into the United States, is not
subject to duty as "printing paper," under Schedule M, ยง 2501 Rev.
Stat., but as "other paper not otherwise provided for."

Tnis was an action to recover duties alleged to have beenL
exacted in excess of law upon an importation of tissue paper.
Judgment for defendant. Plaintiffs sued out this writ of error.
The case is stated in the opinion.
-Mr.Edwin B. Smith for plaintiffs in error.
-Mr. Solicitor Generalfor defendant in error.
VOL. CXxVn-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

MiL.

JUSTICE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York.
The plaintiffs in error, Benjamin and Phineas Lawrence,
brought suit in the court below against Edwin A. Merritt, the
former collector of the port of New York, for the recovery of
an alleged excess of duties levied by him and paid by them
upon an importation of what is called "tissue paper." Schedule -H of ยง 2501 of the Revised Statutes provides for the
imposition of the following duties: "Paper, sized or glued,
suitable only for printing paper, twenty-five per centum ad
valorem ; printing, unsized, used for books and newspapers
exclusively, twenty per centum ad valorem; manufactured of,
or of which paper is a component material, not otherwise
provided for, thirty-five per centuin ad valorem; sheathing
paper, ten per centum ad valorem."
The collector classified the paper under the following clause
on the same page:
"Paper hangings and paper for screens or fire-boards; paper,
antiquarian, demy, drawing, elephant, foolscap, imperial letter,
and all other paper not otherwise provided for, thirty-five
per centum ad valorem."
The plaintiffs thereupon, protested that the paper which
they had imported, instead of being assessed as it was by the
collector under this latter clause at thirty-five per cent ad
valorem, should have been assessed under the former clause as
"paper . . . printing, unsized, used for books and newspapers exclusively," at twenty per cent ad valorem. From
the testimony it appears that it was what is generally called
"tissue paper," and was mainly if not exclusively used for
making letter-press copies of letters or written matter. This
is a well-known process, by which, after a letter has been
written on ordinary paper, it is placed between the leaves of
a book filled with this kind of paper, the pages upon which
the copy is desired being usually dampened somewhat for
that purpose, after which such book is subject to great pressure
by means of a hand or other press. One or more impressions

LAWRENCE v. MERRITT.
Opinion of the Court.

may thus be made of the written matter upon the leaves of
this tissue paper.
The judge of the Circuit Court, in speaking of the character
of this paper, said to the jury: "I do not think that the words
used in the statute have any technical meaning. You must
take the statute as you find it and a common sense view of the
case, and say whether or not this paper which has been produced here is paper which is used, exclusively for books and
newspapers; and whether the law-makers intended, when
they used this language, that such paper as has been described
to you should come in and pay duty under that clause of the
statute which provides for paper used exclusively for books and
newspapers."
He also said that if they found that it was not printing
paper used exclusively for books and newspapers, and should
not come under this clause, then their verdict should be for
the defendant. At the request of the attorney for the defendant he also charged the- jury that if they found upon the
evidence that the phrase "printing paper," as used in the trade,
has a technical signification, and if the plaintiffs' importation
in this case does not come within that signification, they
should find a verdict for the defendant.
The verdict and the judgment were for the defendant.
We are of opinion that the charge of the court was correct,
and that the verdict and judgment which followed it are
without error. It is very obvious from the face of the statute
that "printing paper, unsized, used for books and newspapers
exclusively," does not include the kind of paper in question
in this case, and it therefore falls within the class of manufactures of other paper not otherwise provided for, so that it
was properly chargeable with the duty of thirty-five per
centum ad valorem.
An ingenious argument is made by plaintiffs' counsel to
show that the process of transferring the writing made upon
sheets of the ordinary writing paper used for that purpose,
by causing the ink with which it was written to soak or penetrate through one or more thicknesses of the kind of tissue
paper which this is said to be, after the same have been prop-

OCTOBER TERN,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

erly dampened, is printing within the meaning of the statute,
and therefore this paper, being used for that purpose, is "printing paper." We, however, think it is perfectly clear that this
process is not printing, and that the use of this kind of paper,
which is in controversy here, for that purpose, does not make
it "printing paper."
The words of the statute, "paper, sized or glued, suitable
only for printing paper," and "printing, unsized, used for
books and newspapers, exclusively," evidently have reference
to the various kinds of paper which are used for printing by
means of type or plates, which make an impression only upon
the face of the paper presented to them, and not to these
kinlds of tissue paper, so characterized on account of their
thinness, used for the purpose of transferring writing by the
penetration or soaking through of the liquid used therefor, so
that the copy is read upon the side of the paper opposite to
that presented to the original -writing. The words of the
statute cannot comprehend this species of tissue paper, which
is merely used for the multiplication or copying of letters or
other writings. Not being included within the true meaning
of these phrases above quoted, it must then belong to that
other and larger class of "all other paper not otherwise provided for." This is taxable at the rate of thirty-five per
centum ad valorem, the amount which was a~tually levied
and collected in this case.
We think the charge of the Circuit Judge on this subject,
in connection with the testimony, was sound, and that it
cannot be made much clearer by amplification.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
Affirmed.

