WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Statement of the Case.

it into place, the second reissue, obtained nearly seven years
later, for a bushing without any such notch, is an unwarrantable enlargement of the supposed invention, which, according
to the now well settled law, Lenders the reissue void. Yale
Zooe Co. v. James, 125 UT. S. 447, 464, and cases there cited.
The defendant's plea, that the second reissue was for a different invention from that described or claimed either in the
original patent or in the first reissue, was therefore rightly
adjudged good by the Circuit Court, and
J7e decree dismissing the bill is affirmed.

STATE OF WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INSURANCE
COMPANY.
ORIGINAL.
Argued April 25, 1887.-Decided May 14, 1888.

This court has not original jurisdiction of an action by a State upon a
judgment recovered by it in one of its own courts against a citizen or a
corporation of another State for a pecuniary penalty for a violation of
its municipal law.

THis was an action of debt, commenced in this court by the
State of Wisconsin against a corporation of Louisiana. The
declaration was as follows:
"The plaintiff, The State of Wisconsin, and one of the
States of the United States, now comes and complains of the
defendant, The Pelican Insurance Company of New Orleans,
a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of
the State of Louisiania, in a plea of debt "For that, whereas the plaintiff, the said State of Wisconsin, on the 16th day of September in the year 1886, at the
county of Dane in the said State of Wisconsin, and in and
before the Dane County Circuit Court, in said State -such
court being then and there a court of general jurisdiction
under the laws of said State - and by the consideration and
judgment of the said court, recovered against the said defend-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

ant, the said Pelican Insurance Company, a judgment in favor
of the said plaintiff for the sum of eight thousand five hundred
dollars damages, together with the further sum of forty-five
dollars and thirty-nine cents .for costs and disbursements,
amounting in all to the sum of eight thousand five hundred
and forty-five dollars and thirty-nine cents; which said judgment still remains in that court in full force and effect, and
not in anywise modified, reversed, set aside, appealed from, or
otherwise vacated; and the said plaintiff, the said State of
Wisconsin, hath not obtained any satisfaction upon the said
judgment, but, on the contrary, the whole thereof, together
with interest thereon from said date of such judgment, remains wholly unpaid and owing; whereby an action hath
accrued unto the said plaintiff, the said State of Wisconsin, to
demand and have from and of the said defendant the said sum
of eight thousand five hundred and forty-five dollars and
thirty-nine cents, with interest.
"Wherefore the said plaintiff, the said State of Wisconsin,
saith that the plaintiff is injured and hath sustained damage
to the said amount of eight thousand five hundred and fortyfive dollars and thirty-nine cents, with interest, and therefore
it brings this suit."
Annexed to the declaration was a copy of the record of the
judgment therein described, which showed that it was rendered on default of the defendant, after service of summons on
three persons, each of whom was stated in the officer's return
to be a resident and citizen of Wisconsin and an agent of the
defendant, upon a complaint alleging that the defendant had
done business in the State for thirty months, without having
itself, or by any officer, agent or other person in its behalf,
prepared or deposited in the office of fhe commissioner of
insurance of the State annual statements of its business, as
required by the provision of § 1920 of the Revised Statutes of
Wisconsin, and that the defendant had thereby become indebted to the plaintiff in the sum of $15,000, according to
that provision.
By that section of the Revised Statutes of Wisconsin, it is
enacted that the president or vice-president and secretary of

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO
Statement of the Case.

each fire insurance corporation doing business in the State
shall annually within the month of January prepare and
deposit in the office of the commissioner of insurance a statement, verified by their oaths, of the business of the corporation during the year, and of the condition thereof on the 31st
day of December then next preceding, exhibiting various
items, enumerated in the statute, as to its capital stock,
property or assets, liabilities, income and expenditures, and
any other items or facts which the commissioner of insurance
may require, and that "for any failure to make and deposit
such annual statement, or to promptly reply in writing to any
inquiry addressed by the commissioner of insurance in relation
to the business of any such corporation, or for wilfully making
any false statement therein, every such corporation or officer
so failing or making such false statement shall forfeit five
hundred dollars, and for neglecting to file such annual statement an additional five hundred dollars for every month that
such corporation shall continue thereafter to transact any
insurance business in this state until such statement be filed."
By the statute of Wisconsin of 1885, c. 395, (which took
effect April 12, 1885,) § 1, it is "made the duty of the commissioner of insurance to prosecute to final judgment, in the
name of the State, or to compromise, settle or compound,
every forfeiture incurred by an insurance corporation, by its
failure to comply with, or for its violation of, any law of the
State, of which he may be credibly informed;" and by § 2,
"one half of every sum collected, paid or received by virtue
of section I of this act shall be paid into the state treasury,
and the remainder shall belong to the commissioner of insurance, who shall pay all expenses incurred in prosecuting all
actions brought to enforce the payment of such forfeitures,
both in and out of the State, and shall pay all expenses
incident to the collection of such forfeitures."
In the present action in this court, the defendant filed several
pleas, the first of which was as follows':
"The defendant is a civil corporation organized under the
terms of the Revised Statutes of the State of Louisiana, sections 638 to 688, both inclusive, and is authorized to effect fire

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

insurances, and is subject to suit and required to determine its
domicil in the city aforesaid, and to maintain and designate
an officer of that company to receive there citations and other
judicial writs and notices. This duty has been fulfilled from
the date of the organization, and the charter of the company
has been recorded and published, as those statutes require, in
the office of the recorder of mortgages and a city paper, for
the time defined in the statute. No other designation has
been made or required of the defendant. The section 68Z
of the Revised Statutes of the United States defines the
original jurisdiction of this court, and designates as subjects
for the exercise of that juriidiction, where a State is the complainant, citizens of States other than of the plaintiff or
complainant; and, that there should be no error on the subject, the first section of the Fourteenth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United, States exactly describes all of
those who are citizens. They are natural persons born or
naturalized within the limits of the United States, and having
a residence in any State determines the State in which he
may have privilege or immunity as a citizen. IMoreover, the
complaint of the plaintiff discloses that this defendant is a
fire insurance company, without political character or interstate relations, and had its origin and domicil in New Orleans,
and that the said corporation had offended the State of Wisconsin by imputed and alleged disobedience or inattention to
her statute laws, and had incurred heavy forfeitures and penalties by such offences to the sum stated in the demand, and
for the collection of which fines and forfeitures this suit has
been commenced in this court. But the defendant says that
the statute of the United States, above cited, further defines
the cause for the exercise of original jurisdiction that the controversy should be of a civil nature. It excludes from cognizance of this court the punitive statutes and divers litigations
arising out of the internal and peculiar or peevish regulations,
accompanied With fines, forfeitures, and arbitrary exactions,
which a State may impose upon citizens or corporations of
other States from a just cause, or from caprice or captiousness. The controversy must be of a civil nature, and not of

WISCONSIN v.

PELICAN INS. CO.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the punitive nature, as shown by this record. Wherefore, this
defendant submits to this court that the complaint of this
plaintiff does not show a cause within the original jurisdiction
of the court, nor within the terms of the statutes of the
United States."
To this plea the plaintiff filed a general demurrer, upon
which the case was set down for argument.
.A&. Samuel Shellabarger for plaintiff. -Mr. J. .'Wilson
and -r. H. 7. CMynoweta were with him on the brief.
The demurrer presents two distinct grounds for the defeat
of the original jurisdiction of the court.
1st. That because the defendant is a local fire insurance
company, deriving its existence, location, and non-political
and non-interstate franchise from the local or state laws, it is
therefore not a "citizen of another State," within the sense of
these words, either as found in § 687 of the :Revised Statutes
of the United States, or as found in § 2, article 3, of the Constitution of the United States, or within the meaning of the
words, "citizens of the United States and of the State wherein
they reside," as found in the Fourteenth Amendment; and
2d. That the present suit is one for the enforcement of a
penalty or forfeiture, and is a suit penal in its character, and
is not "a controversy of a civil nature," within the meaning
of these words in § 687, Rev. Stat.
I. 1st. Each of these alleged defences is, we submit, plainly
bad. The first, to wit, that this action of debt upon a judgment is not an action of a civil nature, is obviously untenable,
because the use of the words "controversies of a civil nature,"
as found in § 687, has sole regard to that primary division of
actions into two classes - civil and criminal.
The classification pointed to by the words "controversies of
a civil nature" is that, and only that, pointed out in 4 Blackstone's Commentaries, p. 5, in these words: "The distinction
of public wrongs from private, of crimes and misdemeanors
from civil injuries, seems principally to consist in this: That
private wrongs, or civil injuries, are an infringement or priva-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tion of civil rights which belong to individuals, considered
merely as individuals; public wrongs, or crimes and misdemeanors, are a breach or violation of public rights and duties
due to the whole community, considered as a community, in
its social aggregate capacity."
Had § 687 attempted to exclude, from the original jurisdiction of this court, jurisdiction of the pecuniary or civil rights
due to a State in its corporate capacity (and a State is a pivate individual when suing under the original jurisdiction of
this court) merely because the debt owing to the State arose
out of a tort instead of a contract, then the section would
have been palpably in violation of § 2, article 3, of the Constitution, which does not so limit the original jurisdiction of this
court, but, on the contrary, expressly extends its original jurisdiction to "all cases . . . in which a State shall be a
party," and which comes within the judicial power of the
United States, and which judicial power the same section extends to "all cases in law and equity," including "controversies between a State and the citizens of another State."
This, therefore, takes in every case, in law and equity, between a State and citizens of another State where the liability
is of a civil nature, within the definition of these words as
above given from Blackstone, whether sounding in contract or
in tort. The Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution enforces
this interpretation of the words "cases" and "controversies,"
as found in § 2, article 3, did these words admit of any doubt
as applied to controversies between a State and citizens of
another State. This is so because, in this Eleventh Amendment the words "cases in law and equity," as applied to States
and citizens of other States, are supplied by the wprds "any
suit in law or equity." The words "cases in law and equity"
in § 2, article 3, are the equivalent of "any suit in law or
equity" as found in Eleventh Amendment.
And it is thoroughly settled by this court that the word
"suit," as applied to a controversy between a State and citizens of another State, means any civil demand or claim for
money or private right, as distinguished from a criminal prosecution.

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

All criminal prosecutions, as to their method of institution
and prosecution, are thoroughly distinguished from these "controversies at law or in equity," by article VI of the Amendments; and, amongst other things, it compels every criminal
prosecution to be in the district, previously ascertained by
law, wherein the crime shall have been committed.
It is thus that, from the beginning, the Constitution has
been held to divide actions into two classes as applied to the
original jurisdiction of this court where States are parties, to
wit, into civil and criminal, and to make the original jurisdiction of this court apply to every "case"1 or "suit" or "controversy" where a State is plaintiff and a citizen of another
State defendant, and which is not within the words "criminal
prosecutions," as found in the Sixth Amendment. And these
express provisions of the Constitution were the authority upon
which Congress was entitled to introduce, and did introduce,
the words "civil nature" after the word "controversies " in
687 of the Revised Statutes of the United States.
2d. Another conclusive reason why the present action
is of a civil nature is that it is an action ex contractu, founded
upon a contract of record, to wit, judgment; and is in no sense
penal. In the court below every penal element, entering into
the original cause of action, was conclusively tried, adjudicated, and settled beyond review by this court, if jurisdiction
existed in the court below. This court sits upon and tries
(outside of said question of jurisdiction) the question of pecuniary indebtedness, and can neither inquire into nor know what
was the cause of action in the original suit. That questiqn is
absolutely excluded from the investigation of this court. See
Biddle y. Wilkins, 1 Pet. 686, 692; Pennington v. Gibson, 16
How. 65.
These cases might be indefinitely multiplied, but need not
be; and the apology for citing any upon a proposition so
familiar and settled as the one we now enforce, namely, that
the rendition of a judgment by a competent jurisdiction
merges and extinguishes the original cause of action, and
makes the judgment to be a new debt, with the new characteristics of contract obligation, against which no defence is al-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

lowed that did not arise subsequently to the judgment, is to be
found only in the fact that the plea demurred to is one that
ignores this fundamental and settled rule of the law, recognized, as remarked by this court, in every system of jurisprudence known to civilized States. See Taylor v. Boot, 4 Keyes
(N. Y.), 235; Thatcher v. Gammon, 12 Mass. 268; Spencer v.
Brockway, 1 Ohio, 259, 1st ed., 122, 2d ed.; S. C. 13 Am. Dec.
615; Indiana v. Hlfelmer, 21 Iowa, 370; Healy v. Root, 11
Rich. 390.
II. We now turn to the other defence relied on in the plea
demurred to, to wit, that the defendant corporation is an artificial person, so local in its nature and so destitute of interstate functions, purposes, and franchises, and so fettered and
shielded by the statutes giving it existence, as that it is inaccessible, as a defendant, by the processes of the courts of other
States, under the statutes of such other States providing for
services of process upon foreign corporations doing business in
the State where the suit is brought.
We proceed to state, first of all, what is held by the courts of
Wisconsin regarding the liability to be sued in Wisconsin, which
is created by her laws, as against foreign corporations doing
business in Wisconsin. After doing this we shall give a reference to the rulings of this court upon the same general subject.
In introducing these two classes of authorities, to wit, the
interpretation, by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, of her
own statutes, and the interpretation put by this court upon
the constitutional provision regarding commerce between the
States and other like principles of interstate law, two things
must be carefully premised touching the bearing of these authorities upon the issue raised by the demurrer. One is that
the plea demurred to bases itself upon the legal idea that this
particular corporation is not a "citizen of another State"
within the sense of these words as found in § 2, article 3, and
in articles XI and XIV of the Amendments, and in § 687 of
the Revised Statutes of the United States; and hence that no
.ossible state of legislation, in Wisconsin, touching suits against
foreign insurance companies, and touching the state of their
business and agency, can make a suit in Wisconsin against

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

such foreign corporation possible; and that hence, also, no
averment was needed in this first plea regarding the State of
Wisconsin's statute, or the state of defendant's business in
that State, to make its plea of non-citizenship of another
State a good plea.
The other thing that must be premised is that the other and
independent defence set up in this first plea must proceed
upon the idea that, if defendant might, under possible conditions of legislation, agency, and business in Wisconsin, be suable there, yet since this court judicially knows the condition
of Wisconsin's public statutes (1 Green. Ev., sec. 6, p. 10, 13th
ed., and cases in note 3), and since the plea avers defendant
to be a corporation having its habitat in Louisiana alone, and
one without interstate franchises and objects, therefore the
non-suability of defendant in Wisconsin is made out by simply
averring what kind of a charter defendant has, and without
any averment as to its business and agency in Wisconsin.
We now present to the court the decision of the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin in the case of State of T]isconsin v.
Urnited States Xfutua Accident Association, 67 Wisconsin,
624, recently decided.
The case was stated as follows: This is an appeal from an
order refusing to set aside the service of summons in this action,
the defendant having appeared specially and for that purpose
only. The sheriff's return indorsed upon the summons was to
the effect that on April 10th, 1886, at Fort Howard, Brown
County, Wisconsin, he served the within summons upon the
within-named defendant, personally, by then and there delivering to and leaving with C. Bombach, a resident and citizen of
this State, personally, he, the said Bombach, being then and
there an ageit of the said defendant, a true copy thereof.
From the affidavit upon which the motion was based, and the
affidavits and proofs used in opposition to the same, it appears,
in effect, that the defendant was, at the several dates herein
mentioned, a foreign insurance corporation, previously organized under the laws of the State of New York, and having its
home office at No. 320 Broadway, in the city of New York;
that its business was that of receiving applications for and
VOL. Cxxviir-

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

issuing accident insurance policies upon the principles of mutual insurance; that it had never been admitted or licensed
to transact business of accident insurance in this State, or had
never designated or appointed any attorney or agent in this
State, for the service of process in actions in this State against
the defendant; that said 0. Bombach has been a resident of
Fort Howard, in this State, since September 10, 1883; that he
commenced soliciting insurance for the defendant in February,
1885, and continued to advertise and solicit such insurance
until the commencement of this action; that during that time
he received from the defendant from time to time printed
matter for use and advertising purposes, including printed
forms and rate books for his use in soliciting and taking applications for insurance in the defendant company; that during
such time of his soliciting such insurance he took two applications, to wit: one from John Nelson and another from Frank
Winding, from each of whom he collected at the time of taking such applications five dollars, from which he retained a
commission of three dollars, and transmitted the balance, together with such applications, to the defendant at its said
home office, and in due course of mail received from the defendant policies of insurance issued by it insuring said Nelson
and Winding respectively, and which policies were delivered
to them respectively by said Bombach; that no part of the
money so sent to the defendant had ever been returned; that
during said time said Bombach was so engaged soliciting insurance for the defendant, he advertised said business by posting up and distributing the circulars and printed matter sent
to him by the defendant for that purpose.
The following is the full opinion of the court:
"Are the facts stated such as to make the service on Bombach good as against the defendant? In our judgment they
are. The defendant is a foreign accident insurance corporation. It never procured a license to do business in this State
as required by the statutes, §§ 1220 and 1953, R. S. It is provided by § 263'[, R. S., that actions against corporations shall
be commenced in the same manner as personal actions against

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

natural persons. The summons, etc., shall be served, and such
service held of the same effect as personal service on a natural
person, by delivering a copy thereof as follows:

'

.

9.

If against any insurance corporation not organized under the
laws of this State, to the agent or attorney thereof having
authority therefor by appointment under the provisions of
§ 1915 or § 1953, or to any agent of such corporation within
the definition of § 197'1 in the State.' Here the summons
could not have been served on the defendant by delivering a
copy thereof to the agent or attorney appointed by the defendant under the provisions of § 1915 or § 1953, since no
such appointment was ever made. It follows that such service could only be made by delivering such copy to an agent
of the defendant, within the definition of § 1977, R. S. By
that definition whoever solicits insurance on behalf of any insurance corporation, or transmits an application for insurance
or a policy of insurance to or from any such corporation, or
who makes any contract of insurance, or collects or receives
any premium for insurance, or in any manner aids or assists
in doing either, or in transacting any business for any insurance corporation, or advertises to do any such thing, 8lall be
edN angent of such corporation to all intents and purposes,
and the word agent, whenever used in chapter 89, R. S., shall
be construed to include all such persons. Sec. 1971, R. S.
"The several things thus enumerated are connected by disjunctives, so that the doing of any of them by Bombach would
have made him the agent of the defendant within the definition. The State v. -Farmer,49 Wis. 459. The facts stated
show that he did every one of them himself, unless it wts to
make the contract of insurance mentioned; and the facts
stated show that he aided and assisted in making each of
them, which, of itself, was enough to make him such agent
within the definition.
"As to the commencement of actions, or service of process
upon foreign insurance corporations, this is -inno respect
changed by c. 240, Laws of 1880, notwithstanding § 5 of
that act is nearly in the same language of § 1977, R. S. It.
simply makes it a misdemeanor to act as such agent otherwise

OCTOBER Tk.ERM,

1887.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

than as prescribed. This was fully considered and determined
in Te &taMtv. The .Northwestern Endowment & Legacy Association of Afinnesota, 62 Wis. 176-7. But here Bombach received a commission on each of the policies mentioned as issued by the defendant, and hence the question of his acting
'gratuitously,' there considered, is not here involved. By receiving and retaining such applications and premiums, and
then issuing to the respective beneficiaries policies thereon, and
then sending the same to Bombach for delivery, the defendant
thereby ratified his agency.
"If the argument of counsel to the effect that § 1977 only
relates to agents of such foreign insurance companies as are
duly licensed to do business within the State is sound, then
there would be no possible way of commencing an action
against an unlicensed foreign insurance company doing business in this State in violation of law. In other words, such
construction would reward such foreign insurance companies
as .refused to pay the requisite license, by enabling them to
retain the license money and then shielding them from the
efrforcement of all liability, whether on their contracts or
otherwise, in the courts of Wisconsin. Such construction
would defeat the whole purpose and scope of the statute. Beside , such construction would restrict the application of the
s6etion wholly to home insurance companies and such foreign insurance corporations as procured the requisite license;
,ihereas the language of the section is 'any insurance corporafioii,' "any contract of insurance,' 'any premium for' insurance,' Iany business for any insurance corporation,' and then
enlaiges the word 'agent' whenever used in other portions of
the chapter so as to include 'all such persons' as are therein
described. The chapter evidently applies to foreign insurance
companies not having procured such license, as well as those
who have. Thus § 1952 applies to ' every life or accident insurance corporation doing business in this State . . . upon
the principle of mutual insurance.' Section 1953 applies to
'every life or accident insurance corporation not organized
under the laws of this State.' Section 1954 applies to 'every
life or accident insurance corporation doing business in this

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS.

CO.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

State.' Manifestly it was not the intention of the legislature
that the right of service of process upon foreign insurance
companies doing business in this State should be dependent
upon their first taking out a license."
The courts of other States have taken a similar view of
similar statutes. Gibbs v. Queen Inmurance Company, 63 :Nl.Y.
114:; Pope v. Terre laute, C. & . Co., 87 N. Y. 137; Osbarn
v. Sh7awraut Ins. Co., 51 Vt. 278; .McAichol v. U. S. .Mercantile 1R. Assn., 74 Missouri, 457 ; Swift v. The State of .Delaware,
25 Am. Law Reg. (N. S.) 594; Lhoneux, Lirnon f Co. v. Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Co., 33 Ch. Div. 446.
Foreign insurance companies are not compelled to do business in this State. If they voluntarily choose to do so, however, they must submit to such conditions and restrictions as
the legislature may see fit to impose. Fire Department of
Milwaukee v. Heyfenstein, 16 Wis. 136; The State ex rel. Drake
v. Doyle, 40 Wis. 176.
In Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, a person having acted as
an agent of an insurance company doing business in that State
without a license, under a similar act, was convicted and fined
under the statute, and it was held that there had been no violation of sec. 2, art. 4, of the Constitution, providing that "the
citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and
immunities of citizens in the several States;" nor of section 8,
art. 1, giving to the Congress the power to "regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States."
In that case Mr. Justice Field, speaking of foreign insurance
companies for the whole court, used this significant language:
"Having no absolute right of recognition in other States, but
depending for such recognition" and enforcement of its contracts upon their assent, it follows as-a matter of course that
such assent may be granted upon such terms and conditions
as those States may think proper to impose. They may exclude the foreign corporation entirely; they may restrict its
business to particular localities, or they may exact such security
for the performance of its contracts with their citizens as in
their judgment will best promote the public interest. The
whole matter rests in their discretion." (page 181.) This lan-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1887.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

guage was expressly sanctioned by the same learned court in
Ducat v. Chicago, 10 Wall. 410; Liverpool Ins. Co. v. .Xassaohusetts, 10 Wall. 566, and in the more recent case of P7hilade phia Fire Association v. New York, 119 U. S. 117-8. The
same language was quoted approvingly in the opinion of the
court in The State ex Tel. Drake v. .Doyle, (pages 197-8) supira.
From these decisions it appears that by voluntarily doing
business in the State the defendant voluntarily submitted itself
to the laws of the State. From them it further appears that
the question of interstate commerce is in no way involved in
such a case, and hence it is distinguishable from Cooper fanufaturing Co. v. .Ferguson, 113 U. S. '727, and other similar
cases.
The defendant's right to impeach the sheriff's return by
other evidence includes plaintiff's right to support such return
by similar evidence. We conclude that the court got jurisdiction of the defendant by the service upon Bombach.
The question, however, is not before us as to just what subject-matter such jurisdiction may extend to. It is enough to
know that there may be cases to which such jurisdiction extends. Gauserv. Fireman'sFund I. Co., 34 Minn. 372, and
cases there cited. Erman v. Teutonia Ins. Co., 1 McCrary,
123; -lerchants' Aanufacturing Co. v. Grand Trunk Railroad Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 358; Gray v. Taper Sleeve Pulley
IWorks, 16 Fed. Rep. 437.
We also refer the court to State v. -Endowment and Legacy
Association Company of .Minnesota, 62 Wis. 174, which is a
case also interpretative of the statutes involved in this case, in
which the holdings are in substance like those in the last preceding case, and is a case h6lding, also, that § 5 of c. 240 of
Laws of 1880 does not repeal the ninth paragraph of § 2637
of the Revised Statutes of Wisconsin. These decisions of the
Supreme Court of Wisconsin cover the entire subject-matter of
the scope and effect of the Wisconsin statutes, and to the force
of what the court there says we can add nothing by any
argument.
Their effect is to hold that foreign insurance companies
doing business in Wisconsin through agents in that State,

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

though not licensed, and though the foreign company omits
to procure license, as required by §§ 1220 and 1953, are yet
suable in Wisconsin. And this conclusion is reached by the
court in full view of all the legislation of Wisconsin on the
subject and of the decisions of this court in regard to when a
foreign corporation consents to be sued in a State away from
its residence.
We now turn to the decisions of this court upon the two
questions above indicated, which are supposed to be presented
by the demurrer, namely, the question whether this corporation, under the averments of the plea, is a "citizen of another
State," within the sense of these words in § 2, art. 3, and in
§ 687 of the Revised Statutes; and, second, whether the defendant doing business in Wisconsin, under or in the face of
the statutes of Wisconsin, has assented to being there sued.
That a corporation aggregate created by and transacting
business in a State, is to be deemed a citizen of that State for
all the purposes of suing and being sued, by citizens of other
States, in the courts of the United States, is, of course, the
settled law of this court.
The present doctrine of this court upon this subject is stated
in Paul v. Virginia,8 Wall. 168, 178, where the court, after
stating that: "In the early cases, when this question of the
right of corporations to litigate in the courts of the United
States, was considered, it was held that the right depended
upon the citizenship of the members of the corporation and its
proper averment in the pleadings," adds, "In later cases this
ruling was modified, and it was held that the members of that
corporation would be yresumed to be citizens of the State in
which the corporation was created, and where alone it had
any legal existence, without any special averment of such citizenship, the averment of the place of creation and business of
the corporation being sufficient; and that such presumption
cannot be controverted for the purposes of defeating the jurisdiction of the court." And the court cites Railroad Co. v.
Zetson, 2 How. 497; Marshallv. Railroad Co., 15 How. 314;
.Drawbridge Co. v. Shepard, 20 How. 227, 233; Railroad Co.
v. W-heeler, 1 Black, 286, 297.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

This doctrine has been repeated, by this court, in the same
words, in numerous cases, as, for example, in Steamship Compaeny v. Tugman, 106 U. S. 118, 120, 121, where the cases are
cited.
The only question left, therefore, regarding the point as to
whether the defendant, for the purposes of being sued, is a
citizen of Louisiana, is this, namely, whether there is any
distinction between the liability of a corporation to be sued
in the Circuit Courts of the United States, as a "citizen of
another State," under the laws defining the jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court, and such corporation's liability to be sued,
as a citizen of another State, under the constitutional provisions and statutes defining the original jurisdiction of this court,
where such original jurisdiction is given in suits by a State
against citizens of other States. We submit there is no distinction, which is applicable to the present case, in this regard.
In Pennsylvania v. The Wheeling Bridge Company, 13
How. 518, the State of Pennsylvania sued a foreign corporation of Virginia under the original jurisdiction of this court,
and the jurisdiction was maintained.
The same case was again in this court in 18 How. 421,
where the court held that the act of Congress of August 31,
1852, legalized the bridge, and superseded the effect of the
former decree of this court declaring the bridge a nuisance.
We may remark, in passing, that this is a case where the
original jurisdiction of this court was held to include actions
and suits for torts, as distinguished from suits ex contractu.
In Wiconsi v. .Duluth, 96 'U.S. 379, this court entertained, as coming under its original jurisdiction, the suit of
Wisconsin against a corporation foreign to the State of Wisconsin, to wit, Duluth, a corporation of the State of Minnesota,
the suit being brought urider the clause giving this court jurisdiction, where a State is plaintiff against the citizens of another
State. In that case the Northern Pacific Railroad Company
was made defendant along with Duluth, but it was dismissed
before the hearing, and the court was not required to decide
whether its original jurisdiction would extend to the Northern
Pacific Railroad Company, a corporation created by act of

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Congress; but the court maintained the jurisdiction against
Duluth as being a "citizen of another" State than the State
of Wisconsin, but dismissed the bill with costs, because the
court held that it had no authority to prescribe the manner
in which work, being done under the authority of a law of
Congress, should be carried forward.
And. see opinion of Justice Miller in the same case - 2 Dillon,
406- where it is held that the Supreme Court alone of the
federal courts, has this jurisdiction.
If the case at bar can be distinguished, on the point of
the citizenship of the defendant, and of its liability to be sued
as the citizen of another State under the original jurisdiction
of this court, from the cases now cited, we are unable to perceive wherein that distinction is to be found; and we will await
further discussion of the point to hear from the defendant's
counsel.
We now, therefore, turn to the question whether or not
the public laws of Wisconsin, of which this court will take
judicial notice, bring the defendant within the class of cases
where this court has held that suits may be maintained against
foreign corporations, away from the State of the residence of
the corporations, and in States where, by doing business,
they consent to be sued. It would be a useless extension of
argument to consider, in detail, the large number of cases
decided by this court upon this point.
The. general doctrine of this court, upon this subject, may
be indicated by a quotation from the language of the court in
Insurance Co. v. Woodward, 111 U. S. 138, 146, where the
court says: "But the reason why the State, which charters a
corporation, is its domicile in reference to debts which it owes,
is because there only can it be sued or found for service of
process. This is now changed in cases like the present; and
in the courts of the United States it is held that a corporation
of one State, doing business in another State, is suable in the
courts of the United States established in the latter State if
the laws of that State so provide, and in the manner provided
by those laws," citing Lafayette Insurance Company v. Irench,
18 How. 404; Railroad Company v. Earris, 12 Wall. 65;

OCTOBER TERI,

1887.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Ejvarte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369; Railroad Company v.
_Koontz, 104 U. S. 5, 10.
In the case of St. Clair"v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350 et seq. this
court reviews the state of the law upon the subject of the
suability of a corporation in other States than the State of its
creation and principal domicile, notices the inconvenience of
the old doctrine, (that they could only be sued in the States
of their principal residence,) owing to the great increase of
corporation transactions away from the States of their residence, and holds that, wherever a corporation does business in
States other than its home, and where this business is done
under laws of the State providing for the bringing of suits
against the corporation in suh foreign -State, and for serving
process upon its agents, there the suit may be maintained.
In Excparte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369, this court, in commenting upon the doctrine laid down in the case of Railroad
Company v. Harris, 12 Wall. 65, places the suability of a
corporation, in a jurisdiction foreign to that of its creation,
upon the distinct ground that where the corporation does
business in the foreign jurisdiction, when a statute exists
authorizing a suit to be brought in such foreign jurisdiction
against corporations doing business therein, then and thereby
the corporation consents to being sued in such foreign jurisdiction.
In Railroad Company v. Eoontz, 104 U. S. 510, the court
says: "It is well settled that a corporation of one State doing
business in another State is suable where its business is done,
if the laws make provision to that effect; and we have so
held many times," citing Insurance Company v. French, 18
low. 404; Railroad Company v. .Harris, 12 Wall. 65; Emc
parte Schollenberger, 96 U. S. 369.
The .authorities gone over establish our proposition that
these provisions of the Wisconsin law are not inconsistent
with the Constitution, or with public law, or with the mutual
rights of the States. It may not be amiss, however, upon a
question of this importance to submit to the court a further
reference to authorities in the Circuit Courts of the United
States, and in the courts of the States, in further enforcement

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS.

CO.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of the point that these provisions of the Wisconsin laws, for
such method of bringing foreign corporations into her courts,

to answer touching business done in the State, are valid.
In -ferchants' Manufacturing Company v. Gr-and Trunk
Railway Co., 13 Fed. Rep. 358, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, in 1882,
it was held (in accordance with Insurance Company v. French,
Railway Company v. Harris,Es parte Schollenberger,) that
the fact of doing business in the State is an assent to the service of process upon agents there, in suits against foreign corporations; and the court there cites a long line of authorities
holding that, even in the absence of statutes of the State
authorizing such mode of service, suits may be maintained
against foreign corporations in States where they engage in
business, by service of process on those doing the business.
In .Mohr and .Mohr Distilling Co. v. Insurance Companies,
12 Fed. Rep. 474, decided in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Ohio, by Justice Matthews,
in June, 1882, the court reasserted the doctrines of this court
above cited, and indicated that the consent implied from the
doing of business, by a foreign corporation, in a State having
laws providing for suits in the State where the business is
done, is not limited to causes of actions arising within the
State, but extends to all transitoryactions.
In Gray v. Taper-87eeve Pulley Works, 16 Fed. Rep. 436,
the suit was in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, decided in 1883; opinion
by Acheson, J. In that case the same doctrines are reasserted,
and the additional point is decided which is 'indicated by the
following sentence from the opinion of the court, page 443:
"Suits may be instituted against a foreign corporation by service of process conformably to the act of 1849 (Pennsylvania),
notwithstanding it has failed to establish a place of business
in the State and appoint an agent upon whom service may be
made, agreeably to the state constitution and act of April 22,
1872." The court cites Hagermanv. Empire State Company,
97 Penn. St. 534.
The state decisions are innumerable which are to the same
effect.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

We have already cited the case of Wisconsin v. 1orthwest
-Endowmentand Legacy Association, 62 Wis. 174.
The case of Gibbs v. Queen Insurance Co., 63 N. Y. 114,
(1875,) where the opinion is by Judge Folger, is to the same
effect as the foregoing, but is valuable as presenting an elaborate review of the English and American authorities upon
the general subject as to when a service upon an agent of a
foreign corporation is not violative of the principles of the
public law or of natural justice.
At the end of the opinion, page 131, Justice Folger alludes
to the fact that Insurance Company v. .French, 18 How. 404,
was called to his attention after the preparation of his opinion,
and the Justice remarks that this case of French goes further
than the court went in the case of Gibbs. The Justice cites, in
addition to the cases appearing in .the body of the opinion,
Copin v. A damson, L. R. 9 Ex. 345; Schibsby y. Westenholz,
L. R. 6 Q. B. 155.
The case of Sadler v. Mobile Insurance Co., 60 Mississippi,
391, decided in 1882, is of value, in the present case, as presenting statutes quite equivalent to those of Wisconsin upon
this subject, and also as indicating that the omission of the
foreign company to take out license does not exempt it from
liability in the foreign State where it does business. The case
shows that statutes are not against natural justice or public
law which broadly and generally make foreign corporations
liable in the States where their business is done .by any agent
whose acts have been adopted as valid by such foreign corporation.
The case of Farmers'Insurance Co. v. Highsrmith,44 Iowa,
330, decided in 1876, is one where the court holds that the
service need not be upon the general agent of the foreign
corporation, but may be upon any insurance agent who solicits
risks and forwards them to the company.
In Osborne v. Shawrmut Insurance Co., 51 Vermont, 278,
decided in 1878, the same doctrine was asserted, and it was
also held that it made no difference that the plaintiff was not
a resident of the State where the Insurance Company.did
business, and where the suit was brought.

WISCONSIN 'v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The case of McJ2tichol v. United States Aercantile Reporting Agency, 74 Missouri, 457, decided in 1881, contains a valuable review of the authorities upon this subject, and sustains
alike all the principles which are so often asserted by this
court, that laws which provide for service of process on recognized agents of a foreign corporation are not againstpublic
1aw, or against justice, or against the Constitution, and are
reasonable, and have been adopted because citizens doing
business with foreign corporations, if obliged to go to the
State of the residence of the corporation, would be without
redress. (See pages 474 et seq.)
These cases, and others that might be cited, firmly establish,
as the doctrine of this court, that wherever the laws of a
State provide that foreign corporations, doing business in the
State, shall be suable in such State by process served in a
prescribed manner, there the doing of business in such State
is a consent to be sued according to the laws existing at the
time the business is d6ne; and hence this court cannot fail to
perceive that it was possibl for the courts of the State of
Wisconsin to acquire jurisdiction of the defendant for the
purpose of rendering the judgment which is sued in this case.
Hence the first plea discloses no facts showing that it was not
possible for the court to acquire the jurisdiction which was
exercised in rendering said judgment; and the plea, therefore,
is bad, in failing to disclose any facts showing that no jurisdiction in fat existed.
Only one additional point need to be here noticed:
It may be argued that the record discloses that the defendant never took out license to do business in Wisconsin, as provided by her statutes. This fact does not appear in the record
in this case. The showing made by the plaintiff for leave to
file the present petition is no part of the record of the present
case. The record proper begins with the leave of this court
to file the declaration, and with its filing. Anything outside
of what is disclosed subsequently to the leave of this court is
de hors the record.
But, assuming that the court knows that the defendant
never took out license, and that the judgment below was for

OCTOBER TERMT,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

forfeitures incurred on account of doing business in Wisconsin
in defiance of her laws, then, still, that fact does not affect
the present issue.
Upon the point that the defendant is still liable for the penalties incurred by doing business in Wisconsin without complying with the license laws of the State, we refer this court
to what is said upon this point in the opinion of the court
(supra) in the case of, Wisconsin v. Accident hurance Co.
The argument of the court there found seems to us conclusive
upon the subject. See, also, Zthaca Fire .Department v.
Beecher, 99 N. Y. 429; Zrman v. Teutonia Ins. Co., 1 McCrary, 123; and the following cases cited by the court in that
case: Insurance Co. v. 31ceffillen, 24 Ohio St. 67; Clay Fire
Insurance Co. v. Huron Sat &c. Co., 31 Mich. 346; Columbus
Insurance Co. v. Walsh, 18 Missouri, 229; Lamb v. _Bowser,
7 Bissell, 315, 372; HRartford Insurance Co. v. .iatthews, 102
Mass. 221.
In the light of these authorities, we submit that it is conclusively established that even if this court, in trying this
demurrer, can look outside of the record proper, and can see
that the court below rendered the judgment, which is the
foundation of the present action, for penalties incurred by a
company which had never taken out license in the State of
Wisconsin, yet that fact is immaterial, because it did not
deprive the court below of jurisdiction to render the judgment
which was rendered. This is so, because the business done in
the State was valid, and operated as assent to be sued in
Wisconsin.
-Mr. John A. Campbell for defendant.

:MR.

JUSTiCE

GRAY, after stating the case as above reported,

delivered the opinion of the court.
This action is brought upon a judgment recovered by the
State of Wisconsin in one of her own courts against the Pelican Insurance Company, a Louisiana corporation, for penalties
imposed by a statute of Wisconsin for. not making returns to

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

the insurance commissioner of the State, as required by that
statute. The leading question argued at the bar is whether
i such an action is within the original jurisdiction of this court.
The ground on which the jurisdiction is invoked is not the
nature of the cause, but the character of the parties, the plaintiff being one of the States of the Union, and the defendant a
corporation of another of those States.
The Constitution of the United States, as originally established, ordains in art. 3, sect. 2, that the judicial power of the
United States shall extend "to controversies between two or
more States, between a State and citizens of another State,
between citizens of different States, between citizens of the
same State claiming lands under grants of different States,
and between a State, or the citizens thereof, and foreign States,
citizens or subjects;" and that in all cases "in which a State
shall be party" this court shall have original jurisdiction.
The Eleventh Article of Amendment simply declares that
"the judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend to any suit, in law or equity, commenced or
prosecuted against one of the United States by citizens of
another State, or by citizens or subjects of any foreign State."
By the Constitution, therefore, this court has original jurisdiction of suits brought by a State against citizens of another
State, as well as of controversies between two States; and it
is well settled that a corporation created by a State is a citizen of the State, within the meaning of those provisions of the
Constitution and statutes of the United States which define
ans"a Pacific Railthe jurisdiction of the federal courts.
road v. Atchison &o. Railroad, 112 U. S. 414; Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168, 178; Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge,
13 How. 518.
Yet, notwithstanding the comprehensive words of the Constitution, the mere fact that a State is the plaintiff is not a
conclusive test that the controversy is one in which this court
is authorized to grant relief against another State or her citizens; and a consideration of the cases in which it has heretofore had occasion to pass upon the construction and effect of
these provisions of the Constitution may throw light on the
determination of the question before us.

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

As to "controversies between two or more States." The
most numerous class of which this court has entertained jurisdiction is that of controversies between two States as to the
boundaries of their territory, such as were determined before
the Revolution by the King in Council, and under the Articles
of Confederation (while there was no national judiciary) by
committees or commissioners appointed by Congress. Story
on the Constitution, § 1681; .Aew Jersey v. Hew York, 3 Pet.
461; 5 Pet. 284; 6 Pet. 323; Rhode Island v. -Jassachusetts,
12 Pet. 657, 724, 736, 759; 13 Pet. 23 ; 14 Pet. 210; 15 Pet.
233; 4 How. 591, 628; Missouri v. Iowa, 7 How. 660, and 10
How. 1; Florida v. Georgia, 17 How. 478; Alabama v.
Georgia, 23 How. 505; Firginia v. West Virginia, 11 Wall.
39; Missouri v. Kentucky, 11 Wall. 395. See also Georgia v.
Stanton, 6 Wall. 50, 72, 73.
The books of reports contain but few other cases in which
the aid of this court has been invoked in controversies between
two States.
In Fowler v. Lindsey and Fowler v. MAiller, actions of eject-ment were pending in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Connecticut between private citizens for
lands over which the States of Connecticut and New York
both claimed jurisdiction; and a writ of certiorarito remove
those actions into this court as belonging exclusively to its
jurisdiction was refused, because a State was neither nominallynor substantially a party to them. 3 Dall. 411. Upon a bill
in equity afterwards filed in this court by the State of New
York against the State of Connecticut to stay the actions of
ejectment, this court refused the injunction prayed for, because
the State of New York was not a party to them, and had no
such interest in their decision as would support the bill. Hfew
York v. Connecticut, 4 Dall. 1, 3.
This court has declined to take jurisdiction of suits between
States to compel the performance of obligations which, if the
States had been independent nations, could not have been enforced judicially, but only through the political departments
of their governments. Thus, in Kentucky v. Dennison, 24
How. 66, where the State of Kentucky, by her governor, ap-

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

plied to this court in the exercise'of its original jurisdiction
for a writ of mandamus to the governor of Ohio to compel
him to surrender a fugitive from justice, this court, while
holding that the case was a controversy between two States,
decided that it had no authority to grant the writ. And in
Nfew HMampshire v. Louisiana and Xew York v. Louisiana,
108 U. S. 76, it was adjudged that a State, to whom, pursuant
to her statutes, some of her citizens, holding bonds of another
State, had assigned them in order to enable her to sue on and
collect them for the benefit of the assignors, could not maintain a suit against the other State in this court. See also
Cherokee Vation, v. Georgia, 5 Pet. 1, 20, 28, 51, 75.
In South Carolina v. Georgia, 93 U. S. 4, this court, speaking by Mir. Justice Strong, left the question open, whether "a
State, when suing in this court for the prevention of a
nuisance in a navigable river of the United States, must not
aver and show that it will sustain some special and peculiar
injury therefrom, such as would enable a private person to
maintain a similar action in another court;" and dismissed
the bill, because no unlawful obstruction of navigation was
proved. 93 U. S.14.
As to "controversies between a State and citizens of another
State." The object of vesting in the courts of the United
States jurisdiction of suits by one State against the citizens of
another was to enable such controversies to be determined by
a national tribunal, and thereby to avoid the partiality, or
suspicion of partiality, which might exist if the plaintiff State
were compelled to resort to the courts of the State of which
the defendants were citizens. Federalist, No. 80; Chief Justice Jay, in Chisholm v. Georgia,2 Dall. 419, 475; Story on
the Constitution, §§ 1638, 1682. The grant is of "judicial
power," and was not intended to confer upon the courts of
the United States jurisdiction of a suit or prosecution by the
one State, of such a nature that it could not, on the settled
principles of public and international law, be entertained by
the judiciary of the other State at all.
By the law of England and of the United States, the penal
laws of a country do not reach beyond its own territory,
VOL. cxxvu-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

except when extended by express treaty or statute to offences
committed abroad by its own citizens; and they must be administered in its own courts only, and cannot be enforced by
the courts of another country. Wheaton's International Law
(8th ed.) §§ 113, 121.
Chief Justice Marshall stated the rule in the most condensed
form, as an incontrovertible maxim, "The courts of no country execute the penal laws of another." The Antelope, 10
Wheat. 66, 123.
The only cases in which the courts of the United States
have entertained suits by a foreign State have been to enforce
demands of a strictly civil nature. The Sapphire, 11 Wall.
164; Ring of Spain v. Oliver, 2 Wash. C. C. 429, and Pet.
0. C. 217, 276. The case of The Sapphire was a libel in admiralty, filed by the late Emperor of the French, and prosecuted by the French Republic after his deposition, to recover
damages for a collision between an American ship and a
French transport; and Mr. Justice Bradley, delivering the
judgment of this court sustaining the suit, said: "A foreign
sovereign, as well as any other foreign person, who has a
demand of a civil nature against any person here, may prosecute it in our courts." 11 Wall. 167. The case of The Ring
of Spain v. Oliver, although a suit to recover duties imposed
by the revenue laws of Spain, was not founded upon those
laws, or brought against a person who had broken them, but
was in the nature of an action of assumpsit against other persons alleged to be bound by their own contract to pay the
duties; and the action failed because no express or implied
contract of the defendants was proved. Pet. 0. 0. 286, 290.
The rule that the courts of no country execute the penal
laws of another ipplies not only to prosecutions and sentences
for crimes and misdemeanors, but to all suits in favor of the
State for the recovery of pecuniary penalties for any violation
of statutes for the protection of its revenue, or other municipal
laws, and to all judgments for such penalties. If this were
not so, all that would be necessary to give ubiquitous effect to
a penal law would be to put the claim for a penalty into the
shape of a judgment. Wharton's Conflict of Laws, § 833;

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

Westlake's International Law (1st ed.), § 388; Piggott on Foreign Judgments, 209, 210.
Lord Kames, in his Principles of Equity, cited and approved
by Mr. Justice Story in his Commentaries on the Conflict of
Laws, after having said, "The proper place for punishment is
where the crime is committed, and no society takes concern
in any crime but what is hurtful to itself;" and recognizing
the duty to enforce foreign judgments or decrees for civil
debts or damages; adds, "But this includes not a decree decerning for a penalty; because no court reckons itself bound to
punish, or to concur in punishing, any delict committed extra
territoriurn." 2 Kames on Equity (3d ed.) 326, 366; Story's
Conflict of Laws, §§ 600, 622.
It is true that if the prosecution in the courts of one country
for a violation of its municipal law is in -ern, to obtain a forfeiture of specific property within its jurisdiction, a judgment
of forfeiture, rendered after due notice, and vesting the title
of the property in the State, will be recognized and upheld in
the courts of any other country in which the title to the property is brought in issue. Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, 241;
Hudson v. Gue-tier, 4 Cranch, 293; Bradstreet v. NSeptune
Ins. Co., 3 Sumner, 600, 605; Pigott on Foreign Judgments,
264. But the recognition of a vested title in property is quite
different from the enforcement of a claim for a pecuniary
penalty. In the one case, a complete title in the property has
been acquired by the foreign judgment; in the other, further
judicial action is sought to compel the payment by the defendant to the plaintiff of money in which the plaintiff has not as
yet acquired any specific right.
The application of the rule to the courts of the several
States and of the United States is not affected by the provisions of the Constitution and of the act of Congress, by which
the judgments of the courts of any State are to have such
faith and credit given to them in every court within the
United States as they have by law or usage in the State in
which they were rendered. Constitution, art. 4, sect. 1; Act
of May 26, 1790, c. 11, 1 Stat. 122; Rev. Stat. § 905.
Those provisions establisha rule of evidence, rather than of

OCTOBER TERM, - 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

jurisdiction. While they make the record of a judgment,
rendered after due notice in one State, conclusive evidence in
the courts of another State, or of the United States, of the
matter adjudged, they do not affect the jurisdiction, either of
the court in which the judgment is rendered, or of the court
in which it is offered in evidence. Judgments recovered in
one State of the Union, when proved in the courts of another
government, whether state or national, within the United
States, differ from judgments recovered in a foreign country
in no other respect than in not being re~xaminable on their
merits, nor impeachable for fraud in obtaining them, if rendered by a court having jurisdiction of the cause and of the
parties. Hanky v. Donoghue, 116 U. S. 1, 4.
In the words of Mr. Justiqe Story, cited and approved by
Mr. Justice Bradley speaking for this court, " The Constitution
did n6t mean to confer any new power upon the States, but
simply to regulate the effect of their acknowledged jurisdiction over persons and things within their territory. It did
not make the judgments of other States domestic judgnents
to all intents and purposes, but only gave a general validity,
faith and credit to them as evidence. No execution can issue
upon such judgments without a new suit in the tribunals of
other States. And they enjoy not the right of priority or
lien which they have in the State where they are pronounced,
but that only which the lex fori gives to them by its own
laws in their character of foreign judgments." Story's Conflict of Laws, § 609; Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457,
462, 463.
A judgment recovered in one State, as was said by Mr. Justice Wayne, delivering an earlier judgment of this court,
'4does not carry with it, into another State, the efficacy of a
judgment upon property or persons, to be enforced by execution. To give it the force of a judgment in another State, it
must be made a judgment there; and can only be executed in
the latter as its laws may permit." AeElmoyle v. Cohen, 13
Pet. 312, 325.
The essential nature and real foundation of a cause of action
are not changed by recovering judgment upon it; and the

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS.

CO.

Opinion of the Court.

technical rules, which regard the original claim as merged in
the judgment, and the judgment as implying a promise by the
defendant to pay it, do not preclude a court, to which a judgment is presented for affirmative action, (while it cannot go
behind the judgment for the purpose of examining into the
validity of the claim,) from ascertaining whether the claim is
really one of such a nature that the court is authorized to enforce it. Louisiana v. lNew Orleans, 109 U. S. 285, 288, 291 ;
Louisiana v. St. -Martin'sParish, 111 U. S. 716; CVase v.
Curtis, 113 U. S. 452, 464; Boynton v. Ball, 121 U. S. 457,
466.
The only cases cited in the learned argument for the plaintiff, which tend to support the view that the courts of one
State will maintain an action upon a judgment rendered in
another State for a penalty incurred by a violation of her
municipal laws, are Spencer v. Broceway, 1 Ohio, 259, in
which an action was sustained in Ohio upon a judgment rendered in Connecticut upon a forfeited recognizance to answer
for a violation of the penal laws of that State; Healy v. Boot,
11 Pick. 389, in which an action was sustained in Massachusetts upon a judgment rendered in Pennsylvania in a qui tarm
action on a penal statute for usury; and Indiana v. Helmer,
21 Iowa, 370, in which an action by the State of Indiana was
sustained in the courts of Iowa upon a judgment rendered in
Indiana in a prosecution for the maintenance of a bastard
child.
The decision in each of those cases appears to have been
mainly based, upon the supposed effect of the provisions of
the Constitution and the act of Congress as to the faith and
credit due to a judgment rendered in another State, which
had not then received a full exposition from this court; and
the other reasons assigned are not such as to induce us to
accept those decisions as satisfactory precedents to guide our
judgment in the present case.
From the first organization of the courts of the United
States, nearly a century ago, it has always been assumed that
the original jurisdiction of this court over controversies between a State and citizens of another State, or of a foreign

,291:

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

country, does not extend to a suit by a State to recover penalties for a breach of her ovn municipal law. This is shown
both by the nature of the cases -in which relief has been
granted or sought, and by acts of Congress -and opinions of
this court more directly bearing upon the question.
The earliest controversy in this court, so far as appears by
the reports of its decisions, in which a State was the plaintiff,
is that of Georgia v. BraiMsford.
At February term, 1792, the State of Georgia filed in this
court a bill in equity against Brailsford, Powell and Hlopton,
British merchants and copartners, alleging that on August 4,
1782, during the Revolutionary War, the State of Georgia
enacted a law, confiscating to the State all the property within
it (including debts due to British merchants or others residing
in Great Britain) of persons who had been declared guilty or
convicted, in one or other of the United States, of offences
which induced a like confiscation of their property within the .
-States of which they were citizens; and also sequestering,
and directing to be collected for the benefit of the State, all
debts due to merchants or others residing in Great Britain,
and confiscating to the State all the property belonging and
debts due to subjects of Great Britain; and that by the operation of this law all the debts due from citizens of Georgia to
persons who had been subjected to the penalties of confiscation in other States, and of British merchants and others
residing in Great Britain, and of all other British subjects,
were vested in the State of Georgia. The bill further alleged
that one Spalding, a citizen of Georgia, was indebted to the
defendants upon a bond, which by virtue of this law was
transferred from the obligees and vested in the State; that
Brailsford was a citizen of Great Britain, and resided there
from 1767 till after the passing of the law, and that Hopton's
and Powell's property (debts excepted) had been confiscated
by acts of the legislature of South Carolina; that Brailsford,
Hopton and Powell had brought an action tand recovered
judgment against Spalding upon this bond, and had taken out
execution against him, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Georgia, and that the parties to that

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO
Opinion of the Court.

action had confederated together to defraud the State. Upon
the filing of the bill, this court, without expressing any opinion upon the merits of the case, granted a temporary injunction to stay the money in the hands of the marshal of the
Circuit Court, until the title to the bond as between the State
of Georgia and the defendants could be tried. 2 Dall. 402.
At February term, 1793, upon a motion to dissolve that injunction, this court held that if the State of Georgia had the
title in the debt (upon which no opinion was then expressed)
she had an adequate remedy at law, by action upon the bond;
but, in order that the money might be kept for the party to
whom it belonged, ordered the injunction to be continued till
the next term, and, if Georgia should not then have instituted
her action at common law, to be dissolved. 2 Dall. 415.
Such an action was brought accordingly, and was tried by
a jury at the bar of this court at February term, 1794, when
the court was of opinion, and so charged the jury, that the
act of the State of Georgia did not vest the title in the debt
in the State at the time of passing it, and that by the terms
of the act the debt was not confiscated, but only sequestered,
and the right of the obligees to recover it revived on the
treaty of peace; and the jury returned a verdict for the defendants. 3 Dall. 1.
It thus appears that in Georgia v. Brailsfardthe State did
not sue for a penalty, or upon a judgment for a penalty,
imposed by a municipal law, but to assert a title, claimed to
have absolutely vested in her, not under an ordinary act of
municipal legislation, but by an act of war, done by the State
of Georgia as one of the United States (the Congress of which
had not then been vested with the power of legislating to that
effect) to assist them against their common enemy by confiscating the property of his subjects; and that the only point
decided by this court, except as to matters of procedure, was
that the title had not vested in the State of Georgia by the
act in question.
In Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bi-idge, 13 How. 518, this
court, upon a bill in equity by the State of Pennsylvania
against a corporation of Virginia, ordered the taking down or

OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

neightening of a bridge built by the defendant over the Ohio
River, under a statute of Virginia, which the court held to
have obstructed the navigation of the river, in violation of a
compact of the State, confirmed by act of Congress. 13 How.
561. See also Willamette Bridge v. Hatch, 125 U. S.1, 15, 16.
All the judges who took part in the decision in the Wheeling
Bridge Case treated the suit as brought to protect the property of the State of Pennsylvania. Mr. Justice McLean,
delivering the opinion of the majority of the court, said: "In
the present case, the State of Pennsylvania claims nothing
connected with the exercise of its sovereignty. It asks from
the court a protectioft of its property on the same ground and
to the same extent as a corporation or individual may ask it."
13 How. 560, 561. So Chief Justice Taney, who dissented
from the judgment, said: "She proceeds, and is entitled to
proceed, only for the private and particular injury to her
property which this public nuisance has occasioned." 13 How.
589. And Mr. Justice Daniel, the other dissenting judge,
took the same view. 13 How. 596.
Mississippi v. Johnson, 4 Wall. 475, and Georgiav. Stanton,
6 Wall. 50, were cases of unsuccessful attempts by a State, by
a bill in equity against the President or the Secretary of War,
described as a citizen of another State, to induce this court to
restrain the defendant from executing, in the course of his
official duty, an act of Congress alleged to unconstitutionally
affect the political rights of the State.
Texas v. Nlhite, 7 Wall. 700, Floridav. Anderson, 91 U. S.
667, and Alabatav. Burr, 115 U. S.413, were suits to protect
rights of property of the State. In Texas v. White, the bill
was maintained to assert the title of the State of Texas to
bonds belonging to her, and held by the defendants, citizens
of other States, under an unlawful negotiation and transfer of
the bonds. In Floridav. Anderson, the suit concerned the
title to a railroad, and was maintained because the State of
Florida was the holder of bonds secured by a statutory lien
upon the road, and bad an interest in an internal improvement
fund pledged to secure the payment of those bonds. In
Alabama v. Burr, the object of the suit was to indemnify the

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

State of Alabama against a pecuniary liability which she
alleged that she had incurred by reason of fraudulent acts of
the defendants; and upon the facts of the case the bill was
not maintained.
In Pennsylvania v. Quicksilver Co., 10 Wall. 533, an action
brought in this court by the State of Pennsylvania was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, without considering the nature
of the claim, because the record did not show that the defendant was a corporation created by another State.
In Wisconsin v. Duluthi, 96 U. S. 379, the bill sought to
restrain the improvement of a harbor on Lake Superior,
according to a system adopted and put in execution under
authority of Congress, and was for that reason dismissed, without considering the general question whether a State, in orderto maintain a suit in this court, must have some proprietary
interest that has been affected by the defendant.
The cases heretofore decided by this court in the exercise of'
its original jurisdiction have been referred to, not as fixing the
outermost limit of that jurisdiction, but as showing that the
jurisdiction has never been exercised, or even invoked, in any
case resembling the case at bar.
The position that the jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution upon this court, in cases to which a State is a party, is.
limited to controversies of a civil nature, does not depend
upon mere inference from the want of any precedent to the
contrary, but has express legislative and judicial sanction.
By the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789, c. 20, § 13, it
was enacted that "the Supreme Court shall have exclusive
jurisdiction of controversies of a civil nature, where a State is
a party, except between a State and its citizens; and except
also between a State and citizens of other States, or aliens, in
which latter case it shall have original but not exclusive jurisdiction." 1 Stat. 80. That act, which has continued in force
ever since, and is embodied in § 687 of the Revised Statutes,.
was passed by the first Congress assembled under the Constitution, many of whose members had taken part in framingthat instrument, and is contemporaneous and weighty evidence of its true meaning. Ames v. Kansas, 111 U. S. 449,
463, 464.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

In Chisholm v. Georgia, 2 Dall. 419, decided at August
term, 1793, in which the judges delivered their opinions seriatim, Mr. Justice Iredell, who spoke first, after citing the provisions of the original Constitution, and of § 13 of the Judiciary Act of 1'[89, said: "The Constitution is particular in
expressing the parties who may be the objects of the jurisdiction in any of these cases, but, in respect to the subject matter
upon which such jurisdiction is to be exercised, uses the word
' controversies' only. The act of Congress more particularly
mentions civil controversies, a qualification of the general
word in the Constitution, which I do not doubt every reasonable man will think was well warranted, for it cannot be presumed that the general word ' controversies' was intended to
include any proceedings that relate to criminal cases, which,
in all instances that respect the same government only, are
uniformly considered of a local nature, and to be decided by
its particular laws." 2 Dall. 431, 432. None of the other
judges suggested any doubt upon .this point; and Chief Justice Jay, in summing up the various classes of cases to which
the judicial power of the United States extends, used "demands" (a word quite inappropriate to designate criminal or
penal proceedings) as including everything that a State could
prosecute against citizens of another State in a national court.
2 Dall. 475.
In Cohens v. Yirginia, 6 Wheat. 264, decided at October
term, 1821, Chief Justice Marshall, after showing that the
Constitution had given jurisdiction to the courts of the Union
in two classes of cases, in one of which, comprehending cases
arising under the Constitution, laws and treaties of the United
States, the jurisdiction depended on the character of the
cause, and in the other, comprehending controversies between
two or more States, or between a State and citizens of another
State, the jurisdiction depended entirely on the character of
the parties, said: "The original jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court, in cases where a State is a party, refers to those cases
in which, according to the grant of power made in the preceding clause, jurisdiction might be exercised in consequence of
the character of the party, and an original suit might be in-

WISCONSIN v. PELICAN INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

stituted in any of the federal courts; not to those cases in
which an original suit might not be instituted in a federal
court. Of the last description is every case between a State
and its citizens, and perhaps every case in which a State is
enforcing its penal laws. In such cases, therefore, the Supreme Court cannot take original jurisdiction." 6 Wheat.
398, 399.
'The soundness of the definition, given in the Judiciary Act
of 1'189, of the cases -coming within the original jurisdiction
of this court by reason of a State being a party, as "controversies of a civil nature," was again recognized Ithis
by
-court
in Rhode Island v. Massachusetts, decided at January term,
1838. 12 Pet. 657, 722, 731.
The statute of Wisconsin, under which the State recovered
in one of her own courts the judgment now and here sued on,
was in the strictest sense a penal statute, imposing a penalty
upon. any insurance company of another State, doing business
in the State of Wisconsin without having deposited with the
proper officer of the State a full statement of its property
and business during the previous year. Wisconsin Rev. Stat..
§ 1920. The cause of action was not any private injury, but
solely the offence committed against the State by violating
her law. The prosecution was in the name of the State, and
the whole penalty, when recovered, would accrue to the State,
and be paid, one half into her treasury, and the other half to
her insurance commissioner, who pays all expenses of prosecuting for and collecting such forfeitures. Wisconsin Stat.
1885, c. 395. The real nature of the case is not affected by
the forms provided by the law of the State for the punishment of the offence. It is immaterial whether, by the law of
Wisconsin, the prosecution must be by indictment or by
action; or whether, under that law, a judgment there obtained for the penalty might be enforced by execution, by
scire.facias,or by a new suit. In whatever form the State
pursues her right to punish the offence against her sovereignty, every step of the proceeding tends to one end, the
compelling the offender to pay a pecuniary fine by way of
punishment for the offence.

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

This court, therefore, cannot entertain an original action to
compel the defendant to pay to the State of Wisconsin a sum
of money in satisfaction of the judgment for that fine.
The original jurisdiction of this court is conferred by the
Constitution, without limit of the amount in controversy, and
Congress has never imposed (if indeed it could impose) any
such limit. If this court has original jurisdiction of the
present case, it must follow that any action upon a judgment
obtained by a State in her own courts against a citizen of
another State for the recovery of any sum of money, however
small, by way of a fine for any offence, however petty, against
her laws, could -be brought in the first instance in the Supreme
Court of the United States. That cannot have been the intention of the Convention in framing, or of the people in adopting, the Federal Constitution.
Judgmentfor the defendant on the demurrer

COLTON v. COLTON.
COLTON v. COLTON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

Nos. 228, 229. Argued April 13, 16, 1888.-Decided April 30, 1888.

The intention of a testator, a. expressed in his will, is to prevail when not
inconsistent with rules of law.
No technical language is necessary for the creation of a trust in a will, and
no general rule can be formulated for determining whether a devise or
bequest carries with it the whole beneficial interest, or whether it is to
be construed as creating a trust.
If a trust be sufficiently expressed and capable of enforcement, it is not
invalidated by being called "precatory."
When property is given by will absolutely and without restriction, a trust
is not to be lightly imposed, upon mere words of recommendation and
confidence; but if the objects of the supposed trust are definite and the
property clearly pointed out, if the relations between the testator and
the supposed beneficiary are such as to indicate a motive on the part of
the one to provide for the other, and if the precatory clause, expressing
a wish, entreaty, or recommendation that the donee shall apply the prop-

