OCTOBER TERM,

1887.

Statement of the Case.

Congress by the act of December 21, 1871, 17 Stat. 24, and
was never chargeable to this fund.
In the language of the court below: "Section five of the
act of June 2, 1886, (supra,) fixes the amount of the fund and
specifies exactly what shall be deducted from it, and provides
that the balance shall be distributed to the judgment creditors. The item thus deducted was not among those thus
specified."
We are of the opinion that the claimants are entitled to
their share of the amount thus improperly deducted, and the
decision of the Court of Claims is therefore

Affirmed.

RoBARDS v. LAMB.
ER OR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 1088. Submitted March 20, 1888.-Decided April 16, 1888.

The Statute of Missouri which, as construed by the Supreme Court of that
State, authorizes a special administrator, having charge of the estate of
a testator pending a contest as to the validity of his will, to have a final
settlement of his accounts, conclusive against distributees, without giving
notice to them, is not repugnant to the clause of the Constitution of the
United States which forbids a State to deprive any person of his property
without due process of law.

THIS case was brought before the court on the following
motions made by defendant in error's counsel.
The court is moved to dismiss the writ of error or to affirm
the judgment herein on the following grounds:
1. This court is without jurisdiction under § '09 of the
fRevised Statutes.
2.. If any question cognizable under that section was in fact
decided, such decision was not necessary, and the judgment
rendered is supported on grounds which this court has no
jurisdiction to review.
G. G. VEST,
For -Defendaont in Error.

RoBARDS v. LAMB.
Statement of the Case.

The case, as stated by the court, was as follows:

By the statutes of Missouri, relating to the granting of
letters testamentary and of administration, it is provided: "If
the validity of a will be contested, or the executor be a minor
or absent from the State, letters of administration shall be
granted, during the time of such contest, minority or absence,
to some other person, [other or different from the one charged
with the execution of the will, 56 Missouri, 432,] who shall
take charge of the property and administer the same, according to law, under the direction of the court, and account for
and pay and deliver all the money and property of the estate
to the executor or regular administrator, when qualified to
act." Gen. Stat. Missouri, 1865, c. 120, § 13; Rev. Stat. Missouri, 1879, c. 1, art 1, § 14.
The present suit was brought in behalf of distributees to
falsify a final settlement, made in one of the probate courts
of Missouri, of the accounts of a special administrator, who
was appointed, under the authority of the above statute, to
take charge of and administer the property of a testator pending a contest as to the validity of his will. The plaintiff claims
that at that settlement the distributees were not represented,
and did not have actual or constructive notice thereof. After
the contest as to the will ended, the probate court passed an
order stating the balance in the hands of the special administrator, directing him to turn the same over to the executors of
the estate, and providing for the discharge of himself and
sureties, upon his filing in that court the receipt of the executors for such balance. The executors having given their
receipt for all the property held by him, as shown by his final
settlement, and the same having been filed, an order was
passed by the probate court for the final discharge of the
special administrator.
The Supreme Court of Missouri held, in the present case,
that while the laws of that State (Gen. Stat. 1865, c. 124, § 16,
to 19; Rev. Stat. 1879, § 238 to 241,) required notice by publication of the final settlement of executors and administrators, notice was not required in respect to settlements of special

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

administrators in whose hands the property of a testator is
placed pending a contest as to the validity of his will. Its
language was:
• "As was said in Iamb, AdmW'r, v. Helm, Admo'm, 56 Missouri,
433, 'such special administrators occupy more nearly the position of a receiver who acts under the direction of the court
than they do the position of a general administrator.' The
special administrator is appointed for temporary purposes only,
(Hawkins v. Cunningham, 67 IMissouri, 415,) and when the
contest as to the will is over and the nominated executor qualified, his functions are at an end, and he must settle his accounts
-and turn over the property in his hands to the regular executor or administrator. This accounting is his final accounting,
it is true, but it is not a final settlement of the estate contemplated when notice is required to be given. There is no need
of any notice, for there is then a regular representative of the
estate with whom the settlement is made under the direction
of the probate court. The statute which provides for notice
on final settlements therefore has no application to settlements
made by an administrator pendente lite, and notice is not required.
"As to § 41, c. 120, which provides that if any administrator die, resign, or his letters be revoked, he or his legal representatives shall account to the successor, &c., it is sufficient to
say the section has no application to this case, for here the
special administrator neither resigned nor were his letters
revoked, but his powers ceased by operation of law and the
express terms of the appointment. We do not intimate that
in these cases notice of the settlement must be given, though
when an administrator desires to resign, notice of his intention
to make application to that end must be given,
"It follows that the judgment of the probate court discharging the special administrator is final and conclusive even as
against the plaintiff, for there is no saving clause as to minors
or married women. The petition does not seek relief on the
ground of fraud." 1?oBards v. Lam, 89 Missouri, 303, 311,
312.

RoBARDS v. LAMB.
Opinion of the Court.

31r. George G. Vest for the motion cited: Detroit City Railway Co. v. Guthard, 114 U. S. 133; Chouteau v. Gibson, 111
U. S. 200; .furdock v. -Memphis, 20 Wall. 590; Brown v.
Colorado, 106 U. S. 95; .3fcifanus v. O'Sullivan, 91 U. S.
578 ; Brown v. Atwell, 92 U. S. 327 ; Simmerman v. Nebraska,
116 U. S. 54; Adams County v. Burlington & _Xissouri River
Railroad,112 U. S. 123, 126, 127; Chapman v. Goodnow, 123
U. S. 540 ; Brooks v. .Missouri,1241 U. S. 394; -Yew York Zife
Insurance Co. v. Hendren, 92 U. S. 286; Dugger v. Bocock,
104 U. S. 596; San Franciscov. Scott, 111 U. S. 768; Grame
v. Insurance Co., 112 'U. S. 273 ; Citizens' Bank v. Board of
Liquidation,98 U. S. 140.
-Mr.James Carr opposing, on the question of jurisdiction
cited: W-ebster v. Reid, 11 How. 437; -Lessee of Walden v.
Craig's Heirs, 14 Pet. 145, 154 ; Hollingsworth v. Barbour,4
Pet. 466; Thatcher v. Powell, 6 Wheat. 119; Des Jfoines
Navigation &c. Co. v. Iowa Homestead Co., 123 U. S. 552;
-agar v. Reclamation District, 111 U. S. 701; Chicago Life
Ins. Co. v. NYeedles, 113 U. S. 574; Kennard v. .Morgan, 92
U. S. 480; Foster v. Kansas, 112 U. S. 201; Chapman v.
Goodnow, 123 U. S. 540; Hall v. Finch, 104: U. S. 261; Railroad v. NSational Bank, 102 U. S. 14: and as to what constitutes "due process of law" ; Hagar v. Reclamation District,
111 U. S. 701; Davidson v. New Orleans, 96 -U. S. 97; Foster
v. Eansas, 112 UT. S. 201; -ennard v. Louisiana, 92 U. S.
480; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 36; Pennoyer v. .ef,
95 U. S. 714; Boswells lessee v. Otis, 9 How. 336; Webster
v. Reid, 11 How. 437; .Nations v. Johnson, 24 How. 195;
Murray's Lessee v. Hoboken Co., 18 How. 272.
IAu", after stating the facts in the above
NXh. JUSTICE
language, delivered the opinion of the court.

The only question, among those presented, of which this
court can take cognizance, is whether the statute of Missouri,
which authorizes a special administrator having charge of the
estate of a testator pending a contest as to the validity of his

OCTOBER TERMI, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.

will, to have a final settlement of his accounts, without giving
notice to distributees, and which settlement, in the absence of
fraud, is deemed conclusive as against such distribute.es, is repugnant to the clause of the Constitution of the United States
forbidding a,State to deprive any person of his property without due process of law. We have no difficulty- in answering
this question in the negative. Without stating all the grounds
upon which this conclusion might be rested, it is sufficient to
say that, in matters involved in the accounts of such special
administrator, the executor or administrator with the will annexed represents all claiming under the will. The regular representative of the estate, before passing his receipt to the
special administrator, has an opportunity to examine this settlement, and, if it is not satisfactory, to contest its correctness
by some appropriate proceeding. When an executor or administrator with the will annexed proposes to make a final settlement of his own accounts, he is required to give notice to
creditors and distributees; for there are no other representatives of the estate. But when a special administrator ceases
to act as such, that is, when his functions cease by operation
of law, he must account for the property and estate in his
hands to the executor or administrator with the will annexed,
who, in receiving what had been temporarily in the charge of
the former, acts for all interested in the distribution of the
estate. As, therefore, the regular representative of the estate
has an opportunity to contest the final settlement of the special administrator, before giving him an acquittance, it cannot
be said that the absence of notice to the distributees of such
settlement amounts to a deprivation of their rights of property
without due process of law.

TI.ejudgnmnt is afflined.

