OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Syllabus.

for local offices whenever a member of Congress may have
been voted for at the same time. I agree to what is said by
the court as to the temptations existing in a republican government, where political power is reposed in representatives of
the entire body of the people, chosen at short intervals by
popular elections, to control those elections by violence and
corruption. But I do not perceive in that fact any -reason
why the punishment of fraud committed or designed at state
elections for state officers should be transferred to the Federal
courts. The States are as much interested in guarding against
frauds at such elections, and in maintaining their purity, as it
is possible for the general government to be. They do not
require for their protection in such matters the aid of the
general government, any more than in other domestic affairs.
As observed on a former occasion, "they are invested with
the sole power to regulate domestic affairs of the*highest
moment to the prosperity and happiness of their people,
affecting the acquisition, enjoyment, transfer, and descent of
property; the marriage relation and the education of children; and if such momentous and vital concerns may be
wisely and safely intrusted to them, I do not think that any
apprehension need be felt if the supervision of elections in
their respective States should also be left to them," where, I
may add, it properly belongs.
I am of opinion that the writ of Ab&eas corpus should have
been issued in this case by the Circuit Court, and that its order
denying the petition of the appellants should, therefore, be
reversed.

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
ORIGINAL

MOTION IN A CAUSE ADJUDGED IN THIS COURT AT THE
PRESENT TERM.
No.1.

Submitted April 23,1888. -Decided

May 14, 188.

This court has power, and it is its duty, to issue writs of attachment, for
costs here against persons who intervene in this court by leave of court,

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.

765

Statement of the Case.
and also against their sureties, in bonds for costs furnished by them by
order of court on intervening.

Tnis cause was tried at the present term, and is reported
123 U. S. 189. A question in regard to the enforcement of
the payment of costs in this court, arises under the following
circumstances:
On the 4th day of May, 1885, this cause having then been
docketed and entered here, the attorney of record signed the
following stipulation:
CRAIG, A2ellant,
vs.
"THomAs TEITENSDORFER.
"WILLIAM

In Equity, No. 310.

"And now come the parties above named, and stipulate and
agree together, that by their mutual consent the decree of the
Circuit Court, from which this appeal is taken, be reversed
and the cause remanded to the court with directions that a
decree be entered 'bill dismissed without costs.'
"BEi. F. BUTLER,
For Apellant.
"JOHN EALLum,
-ForAppellee.
"And Attorney in Faot fo parties in interest."
On the same day the court adjourned for the term.
On the 6th day of the same May the late Chief Justice
received the following letter, and caused it to be filed in the
office of the clerk of the court, as shown by the indorsement:
"W1AsHINGToN, D. C., 6tA Xay, 1885.
"To 'Chief Justice -Morrison1?. Waite,present:
"In Craig v. .Leitensdorler,a stipulation of counsel was filed
on the 4th inst., the last day of the late term of the Supreme
Court, signed by ' John Hallum for appellee, and attorney in
fact for parties in interest.' Many months ago the appellee,
impoverished by long litigation, transferred his interest in the
land involved to Thomas J. Allen, who retained me to defend

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

the case. He has never employed MN~r. Hallum, to my knowledge. Will not the court protect Allen's interests against
the sacrifice -the gratuitous sacrifice, contemplated by Mr.
Hallum?
"See Prattv. Jerome, 19 Howard, 384.
"Respectfully,
"ROBERT

H. BRADFORD.

"[Indorsed.]

"SUPREME

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES.
" 1884.

October Term.

"IETTER OF BRADFORD IN REGARD TO STIPULATIO"

TO REVERSE

" [Filed May 6th, 1885.--James H. McKenney, Clerk.]"

On the 20th October, 1885, M71r. Butler on behalf of Craig,
made the following motion, supporting it by a further statement which is not material in this connection:
"And now comes the appellant, defendant in this cause, here
in court, by Benj. F. Butler, his counsel, and moves that an
order be issued to Leann King, as executrix, who has filed
a motion to be substituted in said cause as appellee, or to
intervene therein, and also to IR.H. Bradford, who has heretofore appeared for Thomas Leitensdorfer, plaintiff, appellee,
and has written a letter to the Chief Justice that he now
appears for Thomas J. Allen, who, he claims, now owns the
locus ~~ quo by purchase since this litigation began, each to
show cause, if any either has, why an order and decree shall
not be entered upon the stipulation filed herein on the 4th day
of -Maylast, a copy of which is as follows, to wit :" [being the
above stipulation.]
An order was granted, and on its return MAr. Charles W.
Hornor and .Ar. R. H. Bradford appeared on behalf of
Leitensdorfer, Thomas J. Allen, and Leann King.
On the 2d November, 1885, the following motion was made
on behalf of Craig, entitled in the cause:
"And now comes the appellant here, by his counsel, Benjamin F. Butler and 0. D. Barrett, and gives the court to be

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Statement of the Case.

informed that in reply to the motion to show" cause filed
herein on the 20th of October last, R. H. Bradford, Esq., and
Charles W. rornor representing Thomas Leitensdorfer and
Thomas J. Allen, come here into court, and set up the title
to the locus de quo, set forth in the bill of complaint, to be in
other and different persons than said Leitensdorfer, to wit: in
Thomas J. Allen and Leann King, and that John Hallum is
not and never has been counsel in this cause, as he, in his
affidavit avers, filed in support of said motion. And the
appellant says, before said motion can be determined, evidence needs to be taken and conveyances shown to establish
all the facts as respects the title to said locus d- quo at the
date of filing said motion.
" WHEREFoRE, the appellant prays that a Special Master be
appointed by this court to take testimony on the state of said
title and the rights of the parties, and report the state of said
title to this court with his findings of fact thereon.
"BENJ. F. BUTLER,
"0. D. BARRETT,
" Of ConseV."
The court on the 4th November granted leave to file affidavits, and on the 14th December, 1885, Mr. Barrett and AXr.
Butler filed affidavits in support of their motion to have a
decree entered upon the stipulation.
On the 18th January, 1886, the following order was entered
by the court:
"In this case it is ordered that the decree be reversed in accordance with an agreement to that effect entered into between Mr. Butler, of counsel for appellant, and Mr. Hallum,
of counsel for the appellee, now on file, and that the cause be
remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill without prejudice, unless the appellee, or some or all the persons who claim
to have acquired title to the premises in dispute, or some part
thereof, from or through him since the suit was begun, within
thirty days from the entry hereof, file a stipulation in the
cause, with security to the satisfaction of the clerk, to pay all
costs and expenses accruing on this appeal since the last term

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

that may b6 finally adjudged against the appellee, including
the cost of printing the record and the clerk's fee for supervising."
In accordance with this order, on the 15th February, 1886,
sufficient bonds with sureties were filed in the clerk's office by
Leann S. King and by Thomas J. Allen, conditioned for the
payment of costs accruing after October term, 1881, including
cost of printing the record and clerk's fee for supervising.
After the cause was heard at the present term, the costs not
being paid, Xr.. Butkr and Mr. Barrett, on the 16th of April,
1888, moved the court as follows:
"And now comes the appellant, by his solicitors Benj. F.
Butler and 0. D. Barrett, and gives this court to be informed,
that this cause having been heard and determined by said
court and a mandate to the Circuit Court being about to be
sent down, the matter of certain costs still remains'to be adjusted and settled in this cause. That is to say:
"Leann S. King and Thomas J. Allen, who, by interlocutory
order of said court passed the 18th day of January, 1886, were
permitted to be heard in court, or by brief, in said cause, as
'persons who claimed to have acquired title to the premises
in dispute, or to some part thereof, from or through the appellee, since said suit was begun,' on condition each should
file a stipulation in the cause with security to the satisfaction
of the clerk to pay all costs and expenses, accruing on said
appeal since the last term of the court, that may be finally
adjudged against the appellee, including the cost of printing
the record, and clerk's fees for supervising. And said King
and said Allen each filed such stipulation with instruments of
security duly executed by each, the instrument filed by said
King having the signature and seal of John N. Smith and
Charles IR.Lockridge of Kansas City, -Mo., as sureties, thereto
affixed in the full and just sum of three thousand dollars,
which said security in the matter of said King, was satisfactory to the clerk of this court. Said Allen did file like security having executed under his hand and seal, and under the

CRAIG v. LEITENSDORFER.
Statement of the Case.

hands and seals of Charles R. Haywood and A. D. Wilson of
Arapahoe Court, Colorado, in the full and just sum of three
thousand dollars, which security in the matter of said Allen
was satisfactory to the clerk of this court. All which now
fully appears in the copies of said securities hereto annexed
marked A. D.
"And the 'ourt here is further informed that judgment having been rendered by this court in this case in favor of the
appellant, with costs against the appellee, that the costs, since
the October term of 1884, including the costs of printing the
record and the clerk's fees for supervising, which costs amounting to the full and just sum of eleven hundred fifteen dollars
and two cents, ($1115.02,) as taxed by said clerk, and for the
payment of which said Allen and said King and their sureties
were jointly and legally bound, are long since due and unpaid,
although duly taxed; of all of which said King and said Allen
have had due and reasonable notice through their attorneys of
record in this cause, but neither of them has paid said costs,
or any part thereof or filed with said clerk any reason why
they should not so do.
"Wherefore the appellant moves the court here to estreat
said instruments of security for said costs, and order judgment
to be entered thereon as taxed by said clerk and proper process of attachment to issue against all said persons, jointly and
severally, so that the judgment of this court may be rendered
effectual, and said costs may be paid to the Clerk of this
Court.
"BEN J. F. BUTLER,
"0. D. BARRETT.
"Solicitorsfor the Counsel."
Leave was thereupon granted to N,. Charles if. Hornor
as attorney for Thomas J. Allen, and to Xr. John PaulJones
as attorney for Leann S. King to file answers and briefs in reply to this motion, and on the 23d April, Mr. Ilornor on behalf of Allen filed the following answer, (with a brief and
argument in support of it,) both of which were adopted by
If.. Jones in open court on behalf of Mrs. King:
VOL. cxxvii-49

OCTOBER TERAI,

1887.

Opinion of the Court.

"Now into this honorable Court, by his attorney, comes
Tloma9qTJ Allen, and in answer to the motion served on him
Monday, April 10, 1888, excepts and says:
"First. That he is no proper party to this suit and cannot be
called on to defend this motion, because the Court is without
jurisdiction; because the motion is premature, n(; personaZ demand having been made for the costs claimed upon any person
liable for them; no judgment or decree entered against respondent; no detailed itemized bill of costs either exhibited or
filed, and because motioner has mistaken his remedy and the
amount claimed is not due and is misstated.
"Second. That no costs are due to the clerk; they have all
been paid by Mr. Butler, who is the sole person having any
real interest in this rule or in this case as appellant; and he
has a full and perfect remedy at law.
"Wherefore he prays that these exceptions be sustained and
this motion dismissed with costs, and for all further general and
equitable relief.
"CHARLES W. HORNOR,
'Atoney for IThomas J. Allen."
MR. JusTicn MiLLER: An application was made in this case
last Monday, for a compulsory process against Mrs. Leann S.
King and Thomas J. Allen, and sureties, who signed two
bonds for. costs in this case.
The circumstances of the case are about these. Craig and
Leitensdorfer had been litigating for an immense tract of land
in Colorado, and the case had come here by appeal in behalf
of Craig against the judgment of the Circuit Court. Shortly
after it got here, Craig made an arrangement with Leitensdorfer, or with his executor (for he died during the progress of
this long litigation), by which the case was to be closed up by
a consent decree in favor of Craig, or his representatives. He
presented that agreement to this court, and asked to have it
enforced. At that time M rs. King and Mr. Allen interposed
by their counsel, and protested against this dismissal, saying
that they had bought Leitensdorfer's claim, or parts of it,

IN

RE BURDETT.
Syllabus.

before he had made this arrangement, and to enforce it would
prejudice them. That motion was heard in this court long
enough to have settled a common case. The court said to
these parties, if each of you will enter into bonds to pay all
costs from this time forward to be adjudged against you, or
the appellee, you shall be permitted to intervene and be heard.
They were heard and they made all the defence that was
made against Craig's claim. In October last, this court decided the case in favor of Craig, and against Leitensdorfer's
representatives. The costs were taxed by the clerk, and these
parties have neglected to pay them. We are of opinion that
they must pay them, and we are of opinion that this court has
power, and it is its duty, to enforce the payment without
remitting the payees in these bonds to another suit in some
other court. We, therefore, make an order that an attachment issue against Mrs. King and her sureties, and Mr. Allen
and his sureties, to compel payment of the amount of the taxed
costs, unless they do pay it before the last day of this term.
This is a new question, and a more elaborate opinion may
be submitted before the end of the term, but this order is
made now because the parties ought to have an opportunity
to pay, and we make the order now that they pay the costs,
and that a writ of attachment issue if they do not pay before
the end of this term.
It is proper to observe that if the money is not paid the
writ of attachment will be returnable to the next term of the
court.

IN RE BURhDETT.
OEIGI A-L.
Submitted April 9, 1888.-

Decided April 16, 1888.

When the amount in controversy in a case decided in the Circuit Court is
too small to come here by writ of error, this court is without power by
writ of mandamus to compel the judge of the Circuit Court to reverse
his own judgment.

