JONES v. CRAIG.
Syllabus.

District of California, to answer two separate indictments for
making and forging checks on the Assistant Treasurer of the
United States at San Francisco. The penalty of each of these
bonds was $5000, and, according to well settled principles, no
interest can be recovered in such a suit as this, nor can any
recovery be had beyond the amount prescribed in these instruments, except for costs.
Section 3 of the "act to facilitate the disposition of cases
in the Supreme Court of the United States, and for other purposes," approved February 16, 1875, 18 Stat. 315, c. 77, ยง 3,
fixing the amount necessary to give jurisdiction to this court
of writs of error from the Circuit Courts at a sum in excess of
five thousand dollars, applies to the United States as well as
to other parties, except in the cases enumerated in ยง 699 of
the Revised Statutes. None of these exceptions apply to the
present cases.
It was attempted in United States v. Iill, 123 U. S. 681,
to establish the proposition that that case was for the enforcement of a revenue law, and, therefore, came within the
exceptions specified. It was, however, overruled by this court,
and the opinion in that case forbids the idea that these cases
can be treated as an exception to the general rule.
As the act of 1875, above cited, requires that there shall be
an amount in controversy, exclusive of costs, exceeding five
thousand dollars, and as no such recovery can be had in the
cases now under consideration,
The 'writs are dismissed.

JOIES'S ADMINISTRATOR v. CRAIG.
.APEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 235. Submitted April 18, 1888. -Decided

April 30,1888.

A brought ejectment against B. B thereupon filed a bill in equity, (which
was subsequently amended,) to remove a cloud from the title, setting
up that the deed under which A claimed was a mortgage, with a written

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Opinion of the Court.
contract of defeasance. A demurred. Upon hearing on the demurrer
it was ordered that if B should, within fifteen days, bring into court the
amount due on the mortgage, and interest, and all taxes paid by A, etc.,
A should be restrained from further prosecution of the ejectment suit;
but that if le should fail to do so within that time, the bill should be
dismissed and the defendant allowed to proceed with the suit. Held,
(1) That this order, made upon hearing of a demurrer to a bill in chancery, was wholly irregular; but,
(2) That this court was without jurisdiction as the order was not a final
decree.

IN EQurrY.
.l'.

The case is stated in the opinion.

G. -. P*itchett for appellants.

.M'. W. J. Connell for appellee.

IMIR. JusTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants here, Henry 0. Jones and John Jort, brought
their bill in chancery against Walter Craig, the defendant, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Nebraska.
The object of the bill was to remove a cloud upon the title
to certain lands. The defendant had brought an action of
ejectment to recover the possession, and, having aprimfacie
title of record upon which he could recover, this bill was fled
for the purpose of setting up an equitable defence. Thereupon
a temporary injunction was allowed, restraining Craig from
prosecuting his action of ejectment until the chancery suit
was decided.
The allegation of the bill was, that a deed under which the
plaintiff in the ejectment suit asserted title was executed as a
mortgage, with a written contract of defeasance when the
money loaned should be repaid. To this bill a demurrer was
filed, upon which the court made an order in the following
language:
"If the plaintiff will amend bill and bring into court proper
amount of money to redeem and pay taxes, all of same to bear
interest from time money was due, and interest on taxes from
date of payment at present rate of interest, then perpetual

JONES v. CRAIG.
Opinion of the Court.

injunction can be allowed. Costs of both suits to abide further order."
Afterwards the plaintiffs did file an amended bill, to which
likewise there was a general demurrer. Upon the hearing of
that demurrer the court made the folloWing order:
"Henry 0. Tones
et al.) 193-H.
v".
Walter Craig.
"This cause coming on to be heard upon the demurrer of
the defendant to the amended bill of complaint fied herein,
and the court being fully advised in the premises, it is ordered
that if within fifteen days the plaintiff bring into court the
amount of the note and mortgage set forth in the bill of complaint, with interest thereon from the time the note became
due, with interest thereon at ten per cent per annum until
November 1, 1879, and from November 1, 1879, to date of
this order, at seven per cent per annum, together with all
taxes paid by defendant upon the land described in said bill,
with interest thereon at ten per cent per annum, then the
defendant be restrained from the further prosecution of the
cause in ejectment set forth in said bill of complaint, ind entitled WVater Craig v. Hemwy 0. Jones; but if the plaintiff shall
fail so to do within the time mentioned, the said demurrer to
said bill be sustained and the said bill of complaint be dismissed, and the defendant herein be allowed to proceed with
the prosecution of his said action at law. ' To the ruling and
decision of the court the plaintiffs except."
This order, made upon the hearing of the demurrer, to a
bill in chancery, is wholly irregular.
This court, however, has no jurisdiction of the case as it
stands, because the order just cited is not a final decree.
Something yet remains to be done in order to make it such,
and that action depends upon whether or not the complainants will comply with the order to bring in the sum due on
the mortgage. If that order is complied with, then a decree
should be made, upon the hypothesis on which the order was
made, in favor of the complainants in the bill, and quieting
their title. If, however, the money is not brought into court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1887.
Statement of the Case.

then, according to the theory of the order, the bill of complaint should be dismissed. But, even assuming the right of
the court to make the order, as well as its validity, the circumstances under which the bill of complaint is to be dismissed or
the relief granted to thb complainants named therein, and the
sum to be paid, are matters which are yet to be determined,
which may turn out either one way or the other, and which,
when ascertained, will be the foundation for a final decree.
There is no final decree as the matter now stands.
The a'ppeal is therefore dismissed and the case remanded to
the Circuit Courtforfurtherproceedings.

DE SAUSSURE v. GAILLARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 205. Argued and Submitted April 4, 1888.- Decided April 30,1888.
It appearing that, before reaching and deciding the federal question discussed here, the Supreme Court of South Carolina had already decided
that the plaintiff's action could not be sustained according to the meaning
of the provisions of the statute of that State under which it was brought,
this court dismisses the writ of error for want of jurisdiction, under
the well settled rule that, to give this court jurisdiction of a writ of
error to a state court. it must appear affirmatively not only that a federal
question was presented for decision to the highest court of the State
having jurisdiction, but that its decision was necessary to the determination of the cause, and that it 'was actually decided, or that the judgment as rendered could not have been given without deciding it.
When a State grants a right of remedy against itself, or against its officers
in a case in which the proceeding is in fact against the State, it may
attach whatever limitations and conditions it chooses to the remedy; and
its own interpretation and application of its statutes on that subject,
given by its own judicial tribunals, are conclusive upon the parties seeking the benefits of them.

Tim court stated the case as follows:
The complaint in this case ified in the Court of Common
Pleas in the County of Charleston, South Carolina, alleged

