OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Syllabus

450 U. S.

FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION ET AL. V.
WNCN LISTENERS GUILD ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT

No. 79-824.

Argued November 3, 1980-Decided March 24, 1981*

Sections 309 (a) and 310 (d) of the Communications Act of 1934 (Act)
empower the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to grant an
application for renewal or transfer of a radio broadcast license only if
it determines that "the public interest, convenience, and necessity" will
be served thereby.
In implementation of these provisions, the FCC,
pursuant to its rulemaking authority, issued a Policy Statement concluding, with respect to ruling on applications for license renewal or
transfer, that the public interest is best served by promoting diversity

in a radio station's entertainment formats through market forces and
competition among broadcasters and that review of an applicant station's format changes was not compelled by the Act's language or history, would not advance the radio-listening public's welfare, and would
deter innovation in radio programming. On respondent citizen groups'
petition for review of the Policy Statement, the Court of Appeals held
that it violated the Act, concluding that the FCC's reliance on market
forces to develop diversity in programming was an unreasonable interpretation of the Act's public-interest standard, and that in certain circumstances the FCC is required to regard a change in entertainment
format as a substantial and material fact requiring a hearing to determine whether a license renewal or transfer is in the public interest.
Held: The FCC's Policy Statement is not inconsistent with the Act and
is a constitutionally permissible means of implementing the Act's publicinterest standard. Pp. 593-604.
(a) The FCC has provided a rational explanation for its conclusion
that reliance on the market is the best method of promoting diversity
in entertainment formats. It has assessed the benefits and the harm
likely to flow from Government review of entertainment programming
*Together with No. 79-825, Insilco Broadcasting Corp. et al. v. WNCN
Listeners Guild et al.; No. 79-826, American BroadcastingCos., Inc., et al.
v. WNCN Listeners Guild et al.; and No. 79-827, National Association of
Broadcasters et al. v. WNCN Listeners Guild et al., also on certiorari to
the same court.

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Syllabus

and has concluded that its statutory duties are best fulfilled by not
attempting to oversee format changes. Pp. 595-596.
(b) The FCC's implementation of the public-interest standard, when
based on a rational weighing of competing policies, is not to be set aside
by the Court of Appeals, for "the weighing of policies under the 'public
interest' standard is a task that Congress has delegated to the Commission in the first instance." FCC v. National Citizens Committee for
Broadcasting, 436 U. S. 775, 810. Here, the FCC's position on review
of format changes reflects a reasonable accommodation of the policy
of promoting diversity in programming and the policy of avoiding unnecessary restrictions on licensee discretion. P. 596.
(c) The Policy Statement is consistent with the legislative history of
the Act and with the FCC's traditional view that the public interest is
best served by promoting diversity in entertainment programming
through market forces. Pp. 597-599.
(d) The Policy Statement does not conflict with the First Amendment rights of listeners, since the FCC seeks to further the interests
of the listening public as a whole and the First Amendment does not
grant individual listeners the right to have the FCC review the abandonment of their favorite entertainment programs. Pp. 603-604.
197 U. S. App. D. C. 319, 610 F. 2d 838, reversed and remanded.
WHITE, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER, C. J.,
STEWART, BLACKMUN, POWELL, REHNQUIST, and STEVENS, JJ., joined.

and

MARSHALL, J.,

filed a dissenting opinion, in which

BRENNAN,

J., joined,

post, p. 604.

David J. Saylor argued the cause for petitioners in No. 79824. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General McCree,
Deputy Solicitor General Claiborne, Stephen M. Shapiro, and

C. Grey Pash, Jr. Timothy B. Dyk argued the cause for
petitioners in Nos. 79-826 and 79-827. With him on the
briefs were James A. McKenna, Jr., Carl R. Ramey, J. Roger
Wollenberg, J. Laurent Scharff, Jack N. Goodman, Ralph
E. Goldberg, Eleanor S. Applewhaite, and Erwin G. Krasnow.
B. Dwight Perry and Richard D. Marks filed briefs for petitioners in No. 79-825.
Kristin Booth Glen argued

the cause for respondents

WNCN Listeners Guild et al.

Wilhelmina Reuben Cooke

argued the cause for respondents Office of Communication

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

of United Church of Christ et al.

450 U. S.

With them on the brief

were David M. Rice, Jeffrey H. Olson, and Earle K. Moore.t
JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Sections 309 (a) and 310 (d) of the Communications Act of
1934, 48 Stat. 1064, as amended, 47 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.
(Act), empower the Federal Communications Commission
to grant an application for license transfer or renewal only
if it determines that "the public interest, convenience, and
necessity" will be served thereby.- The issue before us is
tDaniel J. Popeo and Paul D. Kamenar filed a brief for the Washington
Legal Foundation as amicus curiae urging reversal.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed (1) by the Attorneys
General and other officials for their respective States as follows: Robert
Abrams, Attorney General of New York, Shirley Adelson Siegel, Solicitor
General, and Robert J. Schack, Assistant Attorney General; Richard
S. Gebelein, Attorney General of Delaware, and Regina Mullen Small,
State Solicitor; Warren Spannaus, Attorney General of Minnesota; Richard
H. Bryant, Attorney General of Nevada; Jeff Bingaman, Attorney General
of New Mexico, and Robert Hilgendorf, Deputy Attorney General; Dennis
J. Roberts II, Attorney General of Rhode Island, and Susan E. McGuirl,
Deputy Attorney General; Mark Meierhenry, Attorney General of South
Dakota, and Judith Atkinson, Assistant Attorney General; Slade Gorton,
Attorney General of Washington, and Thomas L. Boeder, Senior Assistant
Attorney General; (2) by Andrew Jay Schwartzman for the American
Symphony Orchestra et al.; and (3) by Charles M. Firestone for the Consumer Federation of America et al.
1 We shall refer to transfers and assignments of licenses as "transfers."
2 Title 47 U. S. C. § 309 (a) provides:
"Subject to the provisions of this section, the Commission shall determine, in the case of each application filed with it to which section 308
of this title applies, whether the public interest, convenience, and necessity
will be served by the granting of such application, and, if the Commission,
upon examination of such application and upon consideration of such other
matters as the Commission may officially notice, shall find that public interest, convenience, and necessity would be served by the granting thereof,
it shall grant such application."
Title 47 U. S. C. § 310 (d) provides in part:
"No construction permit or station license, or any rights thereunder
shall be transferred, assigned, or disposed of in any manner, voluntarily or

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Opinion of the Court

whether there are circumstances in which the Commission
must review past or anticipated changes in a station's entertainment programming when it rules on an application for
renewal or transfer of a radio broadcast license. The Commission's present position is that it may rely on market forces
to promote diversity in entertainment programming and thus
serve the public interest.
This issue arose when, pursuant to its informal rulemaking
authority, the Commission issued a "Policy Statement" concluding that the public interest is best served by promoting
diversity in entertainment formats through market forces and
competition among broadcasters and that a change in entertainment programming is therefore not a material factor that
should be considered by the Commission in ruling on an
application for license renewal or transfer. Respondents, a
number of citizen groups interested in fostering and preserving
particular entertainment formats, petitioned for review in the
involuntarily, directly or indirectly, or by transfer of control of any corporation holding such permit or license, to any person except upon application to the Commission and upon finding by the Commission that the
public interest, convenience, and necessity will be served thereby."
The Act requires broadcasting station licensees to apply for license
renewal every three years. 47 U. S. C. § 307 (d). It provides that the
Commission shall grant the application for renewal if it determines that
the public interest, convenience, and necessity will be served thereby.
§§ 307 (a), (d), 309 (a).
Section 309 (d) (1) of the Act provides that any party in interest may
petition the Commission to deny an application for license transfer or
renewal, but the petition must contain specific allegations of fact sufficient
to show that granting the application would be "prima facie inconsistent"
with the public interest. If the Commission determines on the basis of
the application, the pleadings filed, or other matters which it may officially
notice that no substantial and material questions of fact are presented, it
may grant the application and deny the petition without conducting a
hearing. § 309 (d) (2). However, if a substantial and material question of
fact is presented or if the Commission is unable to determine that granting
the application would be consistent with the public interest, the Commission must conduct a hearing on the application. § 309 (d) (2).

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

450 U. S.

Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. That
court held that the Commission's Policy Statement violated
the Act. We reverse the decision of the Court of Appeals.

I
Beginning in 1970, in a series of cases involving license
transfers,' the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit gradually developed a set of criteria for determining
when the "public-interest" standard requires the Commission
to hold a hearing to review proposed changes in entertainment
formats.' Noting that the aim of the Act is "to secure the
maximum benefits of radio to all the people of the United
States," National Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U. S.
190, 217 (1943), the Court of Appeals ruled in 1974 that
"preservation of a format [that] would otherwise disappear,
although economically and technologically viable and preferred by a significant number of listeners, is generally in the
public interest."
Citizens Committee to Save WEFM v.
FCC, 165 U. S. App. D. C. 185, 207, 506 F. 2d 246, 268 (en
banc). It concluded that a change in format would not present "substantial and material questions of fact" requiring a
hearing if (1) notice of the change had not precipitated "significant public grumbling"; (2) the segment of the population preferring the format was too small to be accommodated
by available frequencies; (3) there was an adequate substitute
3 Citizens Committee to Save WEFM v. FCC, 165 U. S. App. D. C.
185, 506 F. 2d 246 (1974) (en bane); Citizens Committee to Keep Progressive Rock v. FCC, 156 U. S. App. D. C. 16, 478 F. 2d 926 (1973);
Lakewood Broadcasting Service, Inc. v. FCC, 156 U. S. App. D. C. 9,
478 F. 2d 919 (1973); Hartford Communications Committee v. FCC, 151
U. S. App. D. C. 354, 467 F. 2d 408 (1972); Citizens Committee to Preserve the Voice of the Arts in Atlanta v. FCC, 141 U. S. App. D. C. 109,
436 F. 2d 263 (1970).
4 We shall refer to the Court of Appeals' views on when the Commission
must review changes in entertainment format as the "format doctrine,"
and we shall often refer to a change in entertainment programming by a
radio broadcaster as a change in format.

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Opinion of the Court

in the service area for the format being abandoned; ' or
(4) the format would be economically unfeasible even if the
station were managed efficiently.'
The court rejected the
Commission's position that the choice of entertainment formats should be left to the judgment of the licensee,' stating
that the Commission's interpretation of the public-interest
standard was contrary to the Act.
In January 1976, the Commission responded to these decisions by undertaking an inquiry into its role in reviewing
format changes.9 In particular, the Commission sought public
5 In Citizens Committee to Save WEFM v. FCC, for example, the court
directed the Commission to consider whether a "fine arts" format was
a reasonable substitute for a classical music format. 165 U. S. App.
D. C., at 203-204, 506 F. 2d, at 264-265. The court observed that 19thcentury classical music and 20th-century classical music could be classified
as different formats, since "the loss of either would unquestionably lessen
diversity." Id., at 204, n. 28, 506 F. 2d, at 265, n. 28.
6 These criteria were summarized by the Court of Appeals in the opinion
below. 197 U. S. App. D. C. 319, 323-324, 610 F. 2d 838, 842-843 (1979).
It was also stated that the format doctrine logically applies to renewal as
well as transfer applications. The court noted that a midterm format
change would not be considered until the broadcaster applied for license
renewal. Id., at 330, and n. 29, 610 F. 2d, at 849, and n. 29. See also
Citizens Committee to Preserve the Voice of the Arts in Atlanta v. FCC,
supra, at 118, 436 F. 2d, at 272.
See Citizens Committee to Preserve the Voice of the Arts in Atlanta v.
FCC, supra, at 113, 436 F. 2d, at 267. See also 197 U. S. App. D. C., at
330, n. 31, 610 F. 2d, at 849, n. 31.
8 Citizens Committee to Save WEFM v. FCC, supra, at 207, and n. 34,
506 F. 2d, at 268, and n. 34.
Although the issue before the Court of Appeals in each of the format
cases was whether a hearing was required, the court warned the Commission in Citizens Committee to Keep Progressive Rock that its publicinterest determination would also be subject to judicial review:
"[F]ailure to render a reasoned decision will be, as always, reversible error.
No more is required, no less is accepted." 156 U. S. App. D. C., at 24,
478 F. 2d, at 934.
9 Notice of Inquiry, Development of Policy re: Changes in the Entertainment Formats of Broadcast Stations, 57 F. C. C. 2d 580 (1976).

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

450 U. S.

comment on whether the public interest would be better
served by Commission scrutiny of entertainment programming or by reliance on the competitive marketplace."°
Following public notice and comment, the Commission
issued a Policy Statement" pursuant to its rulemaking authority under the Act. 2 The Commission concluded in the
Policy Statement that review of format changes was not
compelled by the language or history of the Act, would not
advance the welfare of the radio-listening public, would pose
substantial administrative problems, and would deter innovation in radio programming. In support of its position, the
Commission quoted from FCC v. Sanders Brothers Radio
Station, 309 U. S. 470, 475 (1940): "Congress intended to
leave competition in the business of broadcasting where it
found it, to permit a licensee . . . to survive or succumb
according to his ability to make his programs attractive to
the public." 1 The Commission also emphasized that a broad10 The Commission also invited interested parties to consider the impact
of the format doctrine on First Amendment values.
"Memorandum Opinion and Order, 60 F. C. C. 2d 858 (1976) (Policy
Statement), reconsideration denied, 66 F. C. C. 2d 78 (1977).
12 Section 303 (r) of the Act, 47 U. S. C. § 303 (r), provides that "the
Commission from time to time, as public convenience, interest, or necessity
requires, shall . . . [m]ake such rules and regulations and prescribe such
restrictions and conditions, not inconsistent with law, as may be necessary
to carry out the provisions of [the Act]."
13 The Commission observed that radio broadcasters naturally compete
in the area of program formats, since there is virtually no other form of
competition available. A staff study of program diversity in major markets supported the Commission's view that competition is effective in promoting diversity in entertainment formats. Policy Statement, supra,
at 861.
The Notice of Inquiry also explained the Commission's reasons for relying on competition to provide diverse entertainment formats:
"Our traditional view has been that the station's entertainment format
is a matter best left to the discretion of the licensee or applicant, since he
will tend to program to meet certain preferences of the area and fill significant voids which are left by the programming of other stations. The
Commission's accumulated experience indicates that . . . [f]requently,

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Opinion of the Court

caster is not a common carrier 14 and therefore should not be
subjected to a burden similar to the common carrier's obligation to continue to provide service if abandonment of that
service would conflict with public convenience or necessity. 5
The Commission also concluded that practical considerations as well as statutory interpretation supported its reluctance to regulate changes in formats. Such regulation would
require the Commission to categorize the formats of a station's prior and subsequent programming to determine whether
when a station changes its format, other stations in the area adjust or
change their formats in an effort to secure the listenership of the discontinued format." 57 F. C. C. 2d, at 583.
14 Section 3 (h)
of the Act provides that "a person engaged in radio
broadcasting shall not . . .be deemed a common carrier." 47 U. S. C.
§ 153 (h). See also, FCC v. Sanders Brothers Radio Station, 309 U. S.
470, 474 (1940) ("[B]roadeasters are not common carriers and are not to
be dealt with as such. Thus the [Communications] Act recognizes that
the field of broadcasting is one of free competition") (footnote omitted).
15 The Commission discussed the problems arising from "the obligation
to continue service" created by the Court of Appeals' format doctrine.
The Commission apparently used this phrase to describe those cases in
which it thought the Court of Appeals would hold that an application for
license transfer or renewal should have been denied because the abandonment of a unique entertainment format was inconsistent with the public interest. Although the format cases only addressed whether a hearing
was required, the Court of Appeals implied that in some situations the
Commission would be required to deny an application because of a change
in entertainment format. See Citizens Committee to Keep Progressive
Rock v. FCC, 156 U. S. App. D. C., at 24, 478 F. 2d, at 934.
The Commission also addressed the "constitutional dimension" of the
format doctrine. It concluded that the doctrine would be likely to deter
many licensees from experimenting with new forms of entertainment programming, since the licensee could be burdened with the expense of participating in a hearing before the Commission if for some reason it wished
to abandon the experimental format. Thus, "[t]he existence of the obligation to continue service . . . inevitably deprives the public of the best
efforts of the broadcast industry and results in an inhibition of constitutionally protected forms of communication with no off-setting justifications,
either in terms of specific First Amendment or diversity-related values or
in broader public interest terms." Policy Statement, supra, at 865.

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

450 U. S.

a change in format had occurred; to determine whether the
prior format was "unique"; 16 and to weigh the public detriment resulting from the abandonment of a unique format
against the public benefit resulting from that change. The
Commission emphasized the difficulty of objectively evaluating the strength of listener preferences, of comparing the desire for diversity within a particular type of programming to
the desire for a broader range of program formats and of
assessing the financial feasibility of a unique format."
Finally, the Commission explained why it believed that
market forces were the best available means of producing
diversity in entertainment formats. First, in large markets,
competition among broadcasters had already produced "an
almost bewildering array of diversity" in entertainment formats. " Second, format allocation by market forces accommodates listeners' desires for diversity within a given format
and also produces a variety of formats. " Third, the market
is far more flexible than governmental regulation and responds
more quickly to changing public tastes. Therefore, the Commission concluded that "the market is the allocation mechanism of preference for entertainment formats, and . . . Commission supervision in this area will not be conducive either
to producing program diversity [or] satisfied radio listeners." 20
16 In the Notice of Inquiry, the Commission discussed the difficult task
of categorizing formats, noting that the Court of Appeals had suggested in
the WEFM case that 19th-century classical music should be distinguished
from 20th-century classical music. Notice of Inquiry, supra, at 583, and
n. 2.
17 Policy Statement, 60 F. C. C. 2d, at 862-864.
1I Id., at 863.
19 The Commission pointed out that a significant segment of the public
may strongly prefer one station to another even if both stations play the
same type of music. Although it would be difficult for the Commission to
compare the strength of intraformat preferences to the strength of interformat preferences, market forces would naturally respond to intraformat
preferences, albeit in an imperfect manner. Id., at 863-864.
1o Id., at 860, n. 8.

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Opinion of the Court

The Court of Appeals, sitting en banc, held that the Commission's policy was contrary to the Act as construed and
applied in the court's prior format decisions. 197 U. S. App.
The court questioned
D. C. 319, 610 F. 2d 838 (1979).

whether the Commission had rationally and impartially reexamined its position 21 and particularly criticized the Commission's failure to disclose a staff study on the effectiveness
of market allocation of formats before it issued the Policy
Statement.22 The court then responded to the Commission's
criticisms of the format doctrine. First, although conceding
that market forces generally lead to diversification of formats,
it concluded that the market only imperfectly reflects listener
preferences 2 and that the Commission is statutorily obliThe court was of the view that the Commission's "Notice of Inquiry"
revealed a substantial bias against the WEFM decision, and that the Commission had overstated the administrative problems created by the format
doctrine.
22 The study was released prior to the Commission's denial of reconsideration of its Policy Statement. The court questioned whether the
public had had an adequate opportunity to comment on the study but
found it unnecessary to consider whether the Policy Statement should be
set aside on that ground:
"Petitioners urge this defect as an independent ground for overturning
the Commission. We agree that the study does raise serious questions
about the overall rationality and fairness of the Commission's decision.
However, because certain broader defects, of which the study is symptomatic, are fatal to the Commission's action, we need not decide whether
the failure to obtain public comment on the study is itself of sufficient
gravity to warrant rejection of the Policy Statement." 197 U. S. App.
D. C., at 328, n. 24, 610 F. 2d, at 847, n. 24.
Respondents urge the Court to set aside the Policy Statement because
of this alleged procedural error if the Court determines that the Commission's views do not conflict with the Act or the First Amendment. We
have considered the submissions of the parties and do not consider the
action of the Commission, even if a procedural lapse, to be a sufficient
ground for reopening the proceedings before the Commission.
2-3
The court observed, as it had in WEFM, that because broadcasters
rely on advertising revenue they tend to serve persons with large discretionary incomes. 197 U. S. App. D. C., at 332, 610 F. 2d, at 851. The
21

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

450 U. S.

gated to review format changes whenever there is "strong
prima facie evidence that the market has in fact broken
down." Id., at 332, 610 F. 2d, at 851. Second, the court
stated that the administrative problems posed by the format
doctrine were not insurmountable. Hearings would only be
required in a small number of cases, and the Commission
could cope with problems such as classifying radio format by
adopting "a rational classification schema." Id., at 334, 610
F. 2d., at 853. Third, the court observed that the Commission had not demonstrated that the format doctrine would
deter innovative programming.2 4 Finally, the court explained
that it had not directed the Commission to engage in censorship or to impose common carrier obligations on licensees:
WEFM did not authorize the Commission to interfere with
licensee programming choices or to force retention of an existing format; it merely stated that the Commission had the
power to consider a station's format in deciding whether
license renewal or transfer would be consistent with the public
interest. 197 U. S. App. D. C., at 332-333, 610 F. 2d, at
851-852.
Although conceding that it possessed neither the expertise
nor the authority to make policy decisions in this area, the
Court of Appeals asserted that the format doctrine was "law,"
not "policy," 2' and was of the view that the Commission had
not disproved the factual assumptions underlying the format
dissenting opinion noted that the Commission had not rejected this assumption. Id., at 341, 610 F. 2d, at 861.
24 The court stated that the Commission's staff study demonstrated that
licensees had continued to develop diverse entertainment formats after the
WEFM decision.
25 The court acknowledged that Congress had entrusted to the Commission the task of ensuring that license grants are used in the public interest.
Nevertheless, the Commission's position on review of entertainment format
changes "could not be sustained even when all due deference was given
that construction." 197 U. S. App. D. C., at 336, n. 51, 610 F. 2d, at 855,

n. 51.

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Opinion of the Court

doctrine.26 Accordingly, the court declared that the Policy
Statement was "unavailing and of no force and effect."
Id., at 339, 610 F. 2d, at 858.'
II
Rejecting the Commission's reliance on market forces to
develop diversity in programming as an unreasonable interpretation of the Act's public-interest standard, the Court of
Appeals held that in certain circumstances the Commission is
required to regard a change in entertainment format as a substantial and material fact in deciding whether a license renewal or transfer is in the public interest. With all due
respect, however, we are unconvinced that the Court of Appeals' format doctrine is compelled by the Act and that the
Commission's interpretation of the public-interest standard
must therefore be set aside.
It is common ground that the Act does not define the term
"public interest, convenience, and necessity." 28 The Court
has characterized the public-interest standard of the Act as
''a supple instrument for the exercise of discretion by the
expert body which Congress has charged to carry out its legislative policy." FCC v. Pottsville Broadcasting Co., 309 U. S.
134, 138 (1940). Although it was declared in NationalBroad26 The Court of Appeals was not satisfied that the market functioned
adequately in every case; nor was it persuaded that the loss of a unique
format is comparable to the loss of a favorite station within a particular
format.
27 Two judges dissented, arguing that the Policy Statement should
have
been upheld, since the Commission had made a reasonable judgment that
the format doctrine was unnecessary to further the public interest. A
third judge agreed with the dissenters that the majority had not accorded
sufficient deference to the Commission's judgment, but concluded that the
Commission's order should be vacated so that the record could be reopened to permit public comment on the staff study.
28 The Act provides in general terms that the Commission shall perform
administrative functions "as public convenience, interest, or necessity requires." 47 U. S. C. § 303.

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

450 U. S.

casting Co. v. United States, that the goal of the Act is "to
secure the maximum benefits of radio to all the people of
the United States," 319 U. S., at 217, it was also emphasized
that Congress had granted the Commission broad discretion
in determining how that goal could best be achieved. The
Court accordingly declined to substitute its own views on the
best method of encouraging effective use of the radio for the
views of the Commission. Id., at 218. Similarly, in FCC
v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting, 436 U. S.
775 (1978), we deemed the policy of promoting the widest
possible dissemination of information from diverse sources
to be consistent with both the public-interest standard and
the First Amendment, id., at 795, but emphasized the Commission's broad power to regulate in the public interest. We
noted that the Act permits the Commission to promulgate
"such rules and regulations, . . . not inconsistent with law,
as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of [the
Act]," 29 and that this general rulemaking authority permits
the Commission to implement its view of the public-interest
standard of the Act "so long as that view is based on consideration of permissible factors and is otherwise reasonable."
Id., at 793."0 Furthermore, we recognized that the Commission's decisions must sometimes rest on judgment and prediction rather than pure factual determinations. In such cases
complete factual support for the Commission's ultimate conSee 47 U. S. C. § 303 (r), quoted in n. 12, supra.
10 Section 10 (e) of the Administrative Procedure Act provides in part:
"The reviewing court shall29

"(2) hold unlawful and set aside agency action, findings, and conclu-

sions found to be"(A) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in
'accordance with law . . . ." 5 U. S. C. § 706 (2) (A).
In FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting, we observed that
a reviewing court applying this standard "'is not empowered to substitute
its judgment for that of the agency.'" 436 U. S., at 803, quoting Citizens
to Preserve Overton Park v. Volpe, 401 U. S. 402, 416 (1971).

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Opinion of the Court

clusions is not required since " 'a forecast of the direction in
which future public interest lies necessarily involves deductions based on the expert knowledge of the agency.' " 3'
The Commission has provided a rational explanation for
its conclusion that reliance on the market is the best method
of promoting diversity in entertainment formats. The Court
of Appeals and the Commission agree that in the vast majority of cases market forces provide sufficient diversity. The
Court of Appeals favors Government intervention when there
is evidence that market forces have deprived the public of a
"unique" format, while the Commission is content to rely on
the market, pointing out that in many cases when a station
changes its format, other stations will change their formats
to attract listeners who preferred the discontinued format.
The Court of Appeals places great value on preserving diversity among formats, while the Commission emphasizes the
value of intraformat as well as interformat diversity. Finally, the Court of Appeals is convinced that review of format
changes would result in a broader range of formats, while the
Commission believes that Government intervention is likely to
deter innovative programming.
In making these judgments, the Commission has not forsaken its obligation to pursue the public interest. On the
contrary, it has assessed the benefits and the harm likely to
flow from Government review of entertainment programming,
and on balance has concluded that its statutory duties are
best fulfilled by not attempting to oversee format changes.
This decision was in major part based on predictions as to
the probable conduct of licensees and the functioning of the
broadcasting market and on the Commission's assessment of
its capacity to make the determinations required by the format doctrine. The Commission concluded that "'[elven after
31 FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting, supra, at 814,
quoting FPC v. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corp., 365 U. S. 1, 29
(1961).

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

450 U. S.

all relevant facts ha[d] been fully explored in an evidentiary
hearing, [the Commission] would have no assurance that a
decision finally reached by [the Commission] would contribute more to listener satisfaction than the result favored by
station management.' " Policy Statement, 60 F. C. C. 2d
858, 865 (1976). It did not assert that reliance on the marketplace would achieve a perfect correlation between listener preferences and available entertainment programming.
Rather, it recognized that a perfect correlation would never
be achieved, and it concluded that the marketplace alone
could best accommodate the varied and changing tastes of the
listening public. These predictions are within the institutional competence of the Commission.
Our opinions have repeatedly emphasized that the Commission's judgment regarding how the public interest is best
served is entitled to substantial judicial deference. See, e. g.,
FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting, supra;
FCC v. WOKO, Inc., 329 U. S. 223, 229 (1946). Furthermore, diversity is not the only policy the Commission must
consider in fulfilling its responsibilities under the Act. The
Commission's implementation of the public-interest standard,
when based on a rational weighing of competing policies, is
not to be set aside by the Court of Appeals, for "the weighing
of policies under the 'public interest' standard is a task that
Congress has delegated to the Commission in the first instance." FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting, supra, at 810. The Commission's position on review of
format changes reflects a reasonable accommodation of the
policy of promoting diversity in programming and the policy
of avoiding unnecessary restrictions on licensee discretion. As
we see it, the Commission's Policy Statement is in harmony
with cases recognizing that the Act seeks to preserve journalistic discretion while promoting the interests of the listening
public. 2
32 See, e. g., FCC v. Midwest Video Corp., 440 U. S. 689, 705 (1979)
(recognizing the "policy of the Act to preserve editorial control of pro-

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Opinion of the Court

The Policy Statement is also consistent with the legislative
history of the Act. Although Congress did not consider the
precise issue before us, it did consider and reject a proposal to
allocate a certain percentage of the stations to particular
types of programming. 33 Similarly, one of the bills submitted
prior to passage of the Radio Act of 1927 included a provision requiring stations to comply with programming priorities based on subject matter.33 This provision was eventually deleted since it was considered to border on censorship.36
Congress subsequently added a section to the Radio Act of
1927 expressly prohibiting censorship, and other "interfer[ence] with the right of free speech by means of radio
communication." 1 That section was retained in the Communications Act." As we read the legislative history of the
gramming in the licensee"); Columbia BroadcastingSystem, Inc. v. Demo-

cratic National Committee, 412 U. S. 94, 120 (1973) (discussing the Commission's duty to chart a workable "middle course" to preserve "essentially
private broadcast journalism held only broadly accountable to public
interest standards").
3 Congress rejected a proposal to allocate 25% of all radio stations
to educational, religious, agricultural, and similar nonprofit associations.
See 78 Cong. Rec. 8843-8846 (1934).
34 44 Stat. 1162. The Radio Act of 1927 was the predecessor to the
Communications Act.
31 This bill would have required the administrative agency created by
the Radio Act of 1927 to prescribe "priorities as to subject matter to be
observed by each class of licensed stations." H. R. 7357, 68th Cong., 1st
Sess., § 1 (B) (1924).
36 Hearings on H. R. 5589 before the House Committee on the Merchant
Marine and Fisheries, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., 39 (1926).
3744 Stat. 1172-1173. See Hearings on S. 1 and S. 1754 before the
Senate Committee on Interstate Commerce, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., 121
(1926); H. R. Conf. Rep. No. 1886, 69th Cong., 2d Sess., 16-19 (1927).
38 Section 326 of the Act provides:
"Nothing in this chapter shall be understood or construed to give the
Commission the power of censorship over the radio communications or
signals transmitted by any radio station, and no regulation or condition
shall be promulgated or fixed by the Commission which shall interfere

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

450 U. S.

Act, Congress did not unequivocally express its disfavor of
entertainment format review by the Commission, but neither
is there substantial indication that Congress expected the
public-interest standard to require for mat regulation by the
Commission. The legislative history of the Act does not support the Court of Appeals and provides insufficient basis for
invalidating the agency's construction of the Act.
In the past we have stated that "the construction of a
statute by those charged with its execution should be followed unless there are compelling indications that it is
wrong . . . ." " Prior to 1970, the Commission consistently
stated that the choice of programming formats should be left
to the licensee."
In 1971, the Commission restated that position but announced that any application for license transfer
or renewal involving a substantial change in program format
would have to be reviewed in light of the Court of Appeals'
decision in Citizens Committee to Preserve the Voice of the
Arts in Atlanta, 141 U. S. App. D. C. 109, 436 F. 2d 267

(1970), in which the Court of Appeals first articulated the
format doctrine.4 In 1973, in a statement accompanying
with the right of free speech by means of radio communication." 47
U. S. C. § 326.
In FCC v. Pacifica Foundation, 438 U. S. 726 (1978), the Court concluded that although this section prohibits the Commission from editing
proposed broadcasts in advance, it does not preclude subsequent review of
program content. Id., at 735, 737.
39 Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367, 381 (1969). See

also Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Democratic National Committee, supra, at 121.
40 See, e. g., En Banc Programming Inquiry, 44 F. C. C. 2303, 2308-2309
(1960); Bay Radio, Inc., 22 F. C. C. 1351, 1364 (1957).
41 Primer on Ascertainment of Community Problems by Broadcast Applicants, 27 F. C. C. 2d 650, 679-680 (1971).
The Commission explained:
"Our view has been that the station's program format is a matter best
left to the discretion of the licensee or applicant, since as a matter of public
acceptance and economic necessity he will tend to program to meet the

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Opinion of the Court

the grant of the transfer application that was later challenged
in WEFM, a majority of the Commissioners joined in a commitment to "take an extra hard look at the reasonableness of
any proposal which would deprive a community of its only
source of a particular type of programming." 42 However,
the Commission's later Policy Statement concluded that this
approach was "neither administratively tenable nor necessary
in the public interest." 4 It is thus apparent that although
the Commission was obliged to modify its policies to conform to the Court of Appeals' format doctrine, the Policy
Statement reasserted the Commission's traditional preference for achieving diversity in entertainment programming
through market forces.
preferences of the area and fill whatever void is left by the programming
of other stations." Id., at 679.
The Commission noted that this policy only applied to entertainment
programming. "It does not include matters such as an increase in com-

mercial matter or decrease in the amount of non-entertainment programming, both of which are subjects of review and concern, and have been for
some time." Id., at 679, n. 15.
The Commission continues to review nonentertainment programming to
some degree. In its memorandum opinion denying reconsideration of the
Policy Statement, the Commission explained that it has limited its review
of programming to preserve licensee discretion in this area:
"To the extent that the Commission exercises some direct control of programming, it is primarily through the fairness doctrine and political broadcasting rules pursuant to Section 315. In both cases the Commission's role
is limited to directing the licensee to broadcast some additional material so
as not to completely ignore the viewpoints of others in the community....
These regulations are extremely narrow, the Commission's role is limited
by strictly defined standards, and the licensee is left with virtually unrestricted discretion in programming most of the broadcast day. In contrast, [under the format doctrine] we would be faced with the prospect of
rejecting virtually the entire broadcast schedule proposed by the private
licensee .

. . ."

66 F. C. C. 2d, at 83.

Zenith Radio Corp., 40 F. C. C. 2d 223, 231 (1973) (additional views
of Chairman Burch).
43 Policy Statement, 60 F. C. C. 2d, at 866, n. 8.
42

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

450 U. S.

III
It is contended that rather than carrying out its duty to
make a particularized public-interest determination on every
application that comes before it, the Commission, by invariably relying on market forces, merely assumes that the public interest will be served by changes in entertainment format. Surely, it is argued, there will be some format changes
that will be so detrimental to the public interest that inflexible application of the Commission's Policy Statement would
be inconsistent with the Commission's duties. But radio
broadcasters are not required to seek permission to make format changes. The issue of past or contemplated entertainment format changes arises in the courses of renewal and
transfer proceedings; if such an application is approved, the
Commission does not merely assume but affirmatively determines that the requested renewal or transfer will serve the
public interest.
Under its present policy, the Commission determines
whether a renewal or transfer will serve the public interest
without reviewing past or proposed changes in entertainment format. This policy is based on the Commission's
judgment that market forces, although they operate imperfectly, not only will more reliably respond to listener preference than would format oversight by the Commission but
also will serve the end of increasing diversity in entertainment programming. This Court has approved of the Commission's goal of promoting diversity in radio programming,
FCC v. Midwest Video Corp., 440 U. S. 689, 699 (1979), but
the Commission is nevertheless vested with broad discretion
in determining how much weight should be given to that
goal and what policies should be pursued in promoting it.
The Act itself, of course, does not specify how the Commission should make its public-interest determinations.
A major underpinning of its Policy Statement is the Commission's conviction, rooted in its experience, that renewal

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

Opinion of the Court

and transfer cases should not turn on the Commission's presuming to grasp, measure, and weigh the elusive and difficult
factors involved in determining the acceptability of changes
in entertainment format. To assess whether the elimination
of a particular "unique" entertainment format would serve
the public interest, the Commission would have to consider
the benefit as well as the detriment that would result from
the change. Necessarily, the Commission would take into
consideration not only the number of listeners who favor the
old and the new programming but also the intensity of their
preferences. It would also consider the effect of the format
change on diversity within formats as well as on diversity
among formats. The Commission is convinced that its judgments in these respects would be subjective in large measure
and would only approximately serve the public interest. It
is also convinced that the market, although imperfect, would
serve the public interest as well or better by responding
quickly to changing preferences and by inviting experimentation with new types of programming. Those who would
overturn the Commission's Policy Statement do not take adequate account of these considerations."
It is also contended that since the Commission has reIt is asserted that the Policy Statement violates the Act because it
does not contain a "safety valve" procedure. The dissent relies primarily
on National Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U. S. 190 (1943), and
United States v. Storer Broadcasting Co., 351 U. S. 192 (1956). In
National Broadcasting Co. v. United States, the Court noted that license
applicants had been advised by the Commission that they could call to
its attention any reason why the challenged chain broadcasting rule should
be modified or held inapplicable to their situations. 319 U. S., at 207.
In United States v. Storer Broadcasting Co., the Court observed that
under the Commission's regulations, an applicant who alleged "adequate
reasons why the [Multiple Ownership] Rules should be waived or
amended" would be granted a hearing. 351 U. S., at 205. In each case
the Court considered the validity of the challenged rules in light of the
flexibility provided by the procedures. However, it did not hold that the
Commission may never adopt a rule that lacks a waiver provision.
44

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion of the Court

450 U. S.

sponded to listener complaints about nonentertainment programming, it should also review challenged changes in entertainment formats. 5 But the difference between the Commission's treatment of nonentertainment programming and
its treatment of entertainment programming is not as pronounced as it may seem. Even in the area of nonentertain-

ment programming, the Commission has afforded licensees
broad discretion in selecting programs. Thus, the Commission has stated that "a substantial and material question of
fact [requiring an evidentiary hearing] is raised only when
it appears that the licensee has abused its broad discretion
by acting unreasonably or in bad faith." Mississippi Authority for Educational TV, 71 F. C. C. 2d 1296, 1308 (1979).

Furthermore, we note that the Commission has recently reexamined its regulation of commercial radio broadcasting in
light of changes in the structure of the radio industry. See
Notice of Inquiry and Proposed Rulemaking, In the Matter
of Deregulation of Radio, 73 F. C. C. 2d 457 (1979). As a

result of that re-examination, it has eliminated rules requiring
maintenance of comprehensive program logs, guidelines on
45 The Commission in the past has sought to promote "balanced" radio
programming, but these efforts did not 'involve Commission review of
changes in entertainment format. For example, in the En Banc Programming Inquiry, 44 F. C. C. 2303 (1960), relied on by the dissent, the Commission identified 14 types of programming that it considered "major
elements usually necessary to meet the public interest." Id., at 2314.
One of these categories was "entertainment programs." The Commission
suggested only that a. licensee should usually provide some entertainment
programming: it did not require licensees to provide specific types of
entertainment programming. Morepver, the Commission emphasized that
a licensee is afforded broad discretion in determining what programs should
be offered to the public:
"The ascertainment of the needed elements of the broadcast matter to be
provided by a particular licensee for the audience he is obligated to serve
remains primarily the function of the licensee. His honest and prudent
judgments will be accorded great weight by the Commission. Indeed,
any other course would tend to substitute the judgment of the Commission for that of the licensee." Ibid.

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD

582

Opinion of the Court

the amount of nonentertainment programming radio stations
must offer, formal requirements governing ascertainment of
community needs, and guidelines limiting commercial time.
See Deregulation of Radio, 46 Fed. Reg. 13888 (1981) (to be
codified at 47 CFR Parts 0 and 73).
These cases do not require us to consider whether the Commission's present or past policies in the area of nonentertainment programming comply with the Act. We attach some
weight to the fact that the Commission has consistently expressed a preference for promoting diversity in entertainment
programming through market forces, but our decision ultimately rests on our conclusion that the Commission has provided a reasonable explanation for this preference in its
Policy Statement.
We decline to overturn the Commission's Policy Statement, which prefers reliance on market forces to its own
attempt to oversee format changes at the behest of disaffected
listeners. Of course, the Commission should be alert to the
consequences of its policies and should stand ready to alter its
rule if necessary to serve the public interest more fully. As
we stated in National Broadcasting Co. v. United States:
"If time and changing circumstances reveal that the
'public interest' is not served by application of the Regulations, it must be assumed that the Commission will
act in accordance with its statutory obligations." 319
U. S., at 225.
IV
Respondents contend that the Court of Appeals' judgment
should be affirmed because, even if not violative of the Act,
the Policy Statement conflicts with the First Amendment
rights of listeners "to receive suitable access to social, political,
esthetic, moral, and other ideas and experiences." Red Lion
Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367, 390 (1969). Red
Lion held that the Commission's "fairness doctrine" was consistent with the public-interest standard of the Communica-

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

tions Act and did not violate the First Amendment, but rather
enhanced First Amendment values by promoting "the presentation of vigorous debate of controversial issues of importance and concern to the public." Id., at 385. Although
observing that the interests of the people as a whole were
promoted by debate of public issues on the radio, we did not
imply that the First Amendment grants individual listeners
the right to have the Commission review the abandonment
of their favorite entertainment programs. The Commission
seeks to further the interests of the listening public as a whole
by relying on market forces to promote diversity in radio entertainment formats and to satisfy the entertainment preferences of radio listeners. 6 This policy does not conflict with
the First Amendment. 47
Contrary to the judgment of the Court of Appeals, the
Commission's Policy Statement is not inconsistent with the
Act. It is also a constitutionally permissible means of implementing the public-interest standard of the Act. Accordingly, the judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed, and
the case is remanded for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
So ordered.
JUSTICE MARSHALL, with whom JUSTICE BRENNAN joins,
dissenting.
Under §§ 309 (a) and 310 (d) of the Communications Act
of 1934, 48 Stat. 1064, as amended, 47 U. S. C. § 151 et seq.
Respondents place particular emphasis on the role of foreign language
programming in providing information to non-English-speaking citizens.
However, the Policy Statement only applies to entertainment programming. It does not address the broadcaster's obligation to respond to
community needs in the area of informational programming. See Tr. of
Oral Arg. 81 (remarks of counsel for the Commission).
47 Cf. Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Democratic National Committee, 412 U. S. 94 (1973) (the First Amendment does not require the
Commission to adopt a "fairness doctrine" with respect to paid editorial
advertisements).
46

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

(Act), the Federal Communications Commission (Commission) may not approve an application for a radio license
transfer, assignment, or renewal unless it finds that such
change will serve "the public interest, convenience, and necessity."1 Any party in interest may petition the Commission to deny the application, § 309 (d) (1), and the Commission must hold a hearing if "a substantial and material
question of fact is presented," § 309 (d)(2). In my judgment, the Court of Appeals correctly held that in certain
limited circumstances, the Commission may be obliged to
hold a hearing to consider whether a proposed change in a
licensee's entertainment program format is in the "public interest." '2 Accordingly, I would affirm the judgment of the
Court of Appeals insofar as it vacated the Commission's
"Policy Statement."
I
At the outset, I should point out that my understanding
of the Court of Appeals' format cases is very different from
the Commission's." Both in its Policy Statement and in its
brief before this Court, the Commission has insisted that the
format doctrine espoused by the Court of Appeals "favor[s]
a system of pervasive governmental regulation,"' requiring
"'comprehensive, discriminating, and continuing state surveil1 The pertinent portions of 47 U. S. C. §§ 309 (a) and 310 (d) are
quoted in the majority opinion, ante, at 584-585, n. 2.
2 1 will follow the majority, see ante, at 586, n. 4, in referring to a broad-

caster's change in entertainment programming as a format change.
3 Memorandum Opinion and Order, 60 F. C. C. 2d 858 (1976)
(Policy
Statement), reconsideration denied, 66 F. C. C. 2d 78 (1977) (Denial
of Reconsideration).
4 The opinion of the Court traces the development of the Court of
Appeals' "format doctrine" and the Commission's "Policy Statement,"
see ante, at 586-593. I will not repeat that discussion here.
5Notice of Inquiry, Development of Policy Re: Changes in the Entertainment Formats of Broadcast Stations, 57 F. C. C. 2d 580, 582 (1976)
(Notice of Inquiry),

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

lance.'"6 The Commission further contends that enforcement of the format doctrine would impose "common carrier"
obligations on broadcasters and substitute for "the imperfect
system of free competition . . . a system of broadcast programming by government decree." ' 7 Were this an accurate
description of the format doctrine I would join the Court in
reversing the judgment below.8 However, I agree with the
Court of Appeals that "the actual features of [its format
doctrine] are scarcely visible in [the Commission's] highlycolored portrait." 197 U. S. App. D. C. 319, 332, 610 F. 2d
838, 851 (1979).
In fact, the Court of Appeals accepted the Commission's
conclusion that entertainment program formats should ordinarily be left to competitive forces. The court emphasized
that the format doctrine "was not intended as an alternative
to format allocation by market forces," and "fully recognized
that market forces do generally provide diversification of
formats." Ibid. (Emphasis in original.) It explained that
"the Commission's obligation to consider format issues arises
only when there is strong prima facie evidence that the market has in fact broken down," ibid., and suggested that a
breakdown in the market may be inferred when notice of a
format change "precipitate[s] an outpouring of protest," id.,
at 323, 610 F. 2d, at 842, or "significant public grumbling,"
ibid. The Court of Appeals further stated that "[n]o public
interest issue is raised if (1) there is an adequate substitute
in the service area for the format being abandoned, (2) there
'Policy Statement, supra, at 865 (quoting Lemon v. Kurtzman, 403

U. S. 602, 619-620 (1971)).
Denial of Reconsideration, supra, at 81.
8 Even the Court of Appeals agreed that "[t]here would no doubt be

severe statutory and constitutional difficulties with any system that required intrusive governmental surveillance, dictated programming choices,
forced broad access obligations, or imposed an obligation to continue in
service under any and all circumstances." 197 U. S. App. D. C. 319,
331-332, 610 F. 2d 838, 850-851 (1979).

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

is no substantial support for the endangered format as evidenced by an outcry of public protest, (3) the devotees of the
endangered format are too few to be served by the available
frequencies, or (4) the format is not financially viable." Id.,
at 332, 610 F. 2d, at 851. Finally, the Court of Appeals indicated that the Commission's obligation to hold an evidentiary hearing is limited to those situations in which the record
presents substantial questions of material fact. Id., at 324,
610 F. 2d, at 843.
The Court of Appeals thus made clear that the format
doctrine comes into play only in a few limited situations.
Consequently, the issue presented by these cases is not whether
the Commission may adopt a general policy of relying on
licensee discretion and market forces to ensure diversity in
entertainment programming formats. Rather, the question
before us is whether the Commission may apply its general
policy on format changes indiscriminately and without regard to the effect in particular cases.
II
Although the Act does not define "public interest, convenience, and necessity," it is difficult to quarrel with the basic
premise of the Court of Appeals' format cases that the term
includes "a concern for diverse entertainment programming."
Id., at 323, 610 F. 2d, at 842.' This Court has indicated that
one of the Act's goals is "to secure the maximum benefits of
radio to all the people of the United States." National
Broadcasting Co. v. United States, 319 U. S. 190, 217 (1943)."
9See D. Ginsburg, Regulation of Radio Broadcasting 294 (1979) ("An
argument against the desirability of 'diversity' in broadcast programming

is difficult to imagine"). See generally Note, A Regulatory Approach to
Diversifying Commercial Television Entertainment, 89 Yale L. J. 694
(1980).
10 Section 303 (g) of the Act, 47 U. S. C. § 303 (g), directs the Commission to "encourage the larger and more effective use of radio in the public
interest."

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

And we have recognized "the long-established regulatory goals
of . . . diversification of programming." FCC v. Midwest
Video Corp., 440 U. S. 689, 699 (1979). At the same time,
our cases have acknowledged that the Commission enjoys
broad discretion in determining how best to accomplish this
goal. See FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting, 436 U. S. 775 (1978); National Broadcasting Co. v.
United States, supra. The Commission has concluded that
a general policy of relying on market forces is the best method
for promoting diversity in entertainment programming formats. As the majority notes, ante, at 595, this determination largely rests on the Commission's predictions about
licensee behavior and the functioning of the radio broadcasting market.
I agree with the majority that predictions of this sort are
within the Commission's institutional competence. I am also
willing to assume that a general policy of disregarding format changes in making the "public interest" determination
required by the Act is not inconsistent with the Commission's
statutory obligation to give individualized consideration to
each application. The Commission has broad rulemaking
powers under the Act," and we have approved efforts by the
Commission to implement the Act's "public interest" requirement through rules and policies of general application.
See, e. g., FCC v. National Citizens Committee for Broadcasting, supra; United States v. Storer Broadcasting Co., 351
U. S. 192 (1956); National Broadcasting Co. v. United States,
supra.
The problem with the particular Policy Statement challenged here, however, is that it lacks the flexibility we have
required of such general regulations and policies. See, e. g.,
United States v. Storer Broadcasting Co., supra; National
11 The Commission is authorized to promulgate "such rules and regulations . . . not inconsistent with law, as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of [the Act]." 47 U. S. C. § 303 (r).

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

Broadcasting Co. v. United States, supra. The Act imposes
an affirmative duty on the Commission to make a particularized "public interest" determination for each application
that comes before it. As we explained in National Broadcasting Co. v. United States, supra, at 225, the Commission
must, in each case, "exercise an ultimate judgment whether
the grant of a license would serve the 'public interest, convenience, or necessity.'" The Policy Statement completely
forecloses any possibility that the Commission will re-examine
the validity of its general policy on format changes as it applies to particular situations. Thus, even when it can be conclusively demonstrated that a particular radio market does
not function in the manner predicted by the Commission, the
Policy Statement indicates that the Commission will blindly
assume that a proposed format change is in the "public interest." This result would occur even where reliance on the
market to ensure format diversity is shown to be misplaced,
and where it thus appears that action by the Commission is
necessary to promote the public interest in diversity. This
outcome is not consistent with the Commission's statutory
responsibilities.
Moreover, our cases have indicated that an agency's discretion to proceed in complex areas through general rules is
intimately connected to the existence of a "safety valve"
procedure that allows the agency to consider applications for
exemptions based on special circumstances. See E. I. du
Pont de Nemours & Co. v. Train, 430 U. S. 112, 128 (1977);
Permian Basin Area Rate Cases, 390 U. S. 747, 771-772
(1968); FPC v. Texaco Inc., 377 U. S. 33, 40-41 (1964);
United States v. Storer Broadcasting Co., supra, at 204-205;
National Broadcasting Co. v. United States, supra, at 207,
225. See also WAIT Radio v. FCC, 135 U. S. App. D. C. 317,
321, 418 F. 2d 1153, 1157 (1969); American Airlines v. CAB,
123 U. S. App. D. C. 310, 359 F. 2d 624 (en bane), cert.
denied, 385 U. S. 843 (1966); WBEN, Inc. v. United States,
396 F. 2d 601, 618 (CA2), cert. denied, 393 U. S. 914 (1968).

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

For example, in National Broadcasting Co. v. United States,

supra, we upheld the Commission's Chain Broadcasting Regulations, but we emphasized the need for flexibility in administering the rules.

We noted that the "Commission provided

that 'networks will be given full opportunity, on proper application . . . to call our attention to any reasons why the
principle should be modified or held inapplicable.'"
Id., at
207. And we concluded:

"The Commission therefore did not bind itself inflexibly
to the licensing policies expressed in the regulations. In
each case that comes before it the Commission must
still exercise an ultimate judgment whether the grant of

a license would serve the 'public interest, convenience,
or necessity.' If time and changing circumstances reveal that the 'public interest' is not served by application
of the Regulations, it must be assumed that the Commission will act in accordance with its statutory obligations." Id., at 225.

Similarly, in upholding the Commission's Multiple Ownership Rules in United States v. Storer Broadcasting Co., supra,

we noted that the regulations allowed' an opportunity for a
"full hearing" for applicants "that set out adequate reasons
why the Rules should be waived or amended." Id., at 205.12
12 The majority argues, ante, at 601, n. 44, that although the Court considered the presence of a "safety valve" procedure in upholding the rules
challenged in National Broadcasting Co. v. United States and United
States v. Storer Broadcasting Co., the Court "did not hold that the
Commission may never adopt a rule that lacks a waiver provision."
Since this general question was not before the Court in those cases,
it is hardly surprising that it did not render an advisory opinion to
this effect. What is instructive, however, is the majority's inability to
explain why a waiver provision was necessary in those cases, but is not
required in the instant situation. As the cases cited in text make clear,
this Court and the lower federal courts have insisted on a "safety valve"
feature in upholding general rules promulgated by a variety of agencies.
I believe it is incumbent on those who would depart from this practice to
explain their reasoning.

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

This "safety valve" feature is particularly essential where,
as here, the agency's decision that a general policy promotes
the public interest is based on predictions and forecasts that
by definition lack complete factual support. As the Court of
Appeals admonished the Commission in a related context:
"The Commission is charged with administration in the
'public interest.' That an agency may discharge its responsibilities by promulgating rules of general application which, in the overall perspective, establish the 'public interest' for a broad range of situations, does not
relieve it of an obligation to seek out the 'public interest' in particular, individualized cases. A general rule
implies that a commission need not re-study the entire
problem de novo and reconsider policy every time it receives an application for a waiver of the rule. On the
other hand, a general rule, deemed valid because its overall objectives are in the public interest, may not be in
the 'public interest' if extended to an applicant who proposes a new service that will not undermine the policy,
served by the rule, that has been adjudged in the public
interest." WAIT Radio v. FCC, supra, at 321, 418 F.
2d, at 1157.
In my judgment, this requirement of flexibility compels the
Commission to provide a procedure through which listeners
can attempt to show that a particular radio market differs
from the Commission's paradigm, and thereby persuade the
Commission to give particularized consideration to a proposed format change. Indeed, until the Policy Statement
was published, the Commission had resolved to "take an extra hard look at the reasonableness of any proposal which
would deprive a community of its only source of a particular
type of programming." 11 As I see it, the Court of Appeals'
format doctrine was merely an attempt by that court to de13 Zenith Radio Corp., 40 F. C. C. 2d 223, 231 (1973) (additional views
of Chairman Burch) (joined by a majority of the Commissioners).

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

lineate the circumstances in which the Commission must temper its general policy in view of special circumstances. Perhaps the court would have been better advised to leave the
task of defining these situations to the Commission. 14 But
one need not endorse every feature of the Court of Appeals'
approach to conclude that the court correctly invalidated the
Commission's Policy Statement because of its omission of a
"safety valve" procedure.
This omission is not only a departure from legal precedents; it is also a departure both from the Commission's consistent policies and its admissions here. For the Commission
concedes that the radio market is an imperfect reflection of
listener preferences, 5 and that listeners have programming
interests that may not be reflected in the marketplace. The
Commission has long recognized its obligation to examine
program formats in making the "public interest" determination required by the Act. As early as 1929, the Commission's
predecessor, the Federal Radio Commission, adopted the position that licensees were expected to provide a balanced program schedule designed to serve all substantial groups in
their communities. Great Lakes Broadcasting Co., 3 F. R. C.
Ann. Rep. 32, 34, rev'd on other grounds, 37 F. 2d 993, cert.
dism'd, 281 U. S. 706 (1929).
The Commission's famous
"Blue Book," 16 published in 1946, reaffirmed the emphasis
on a well-balanced program structure and declared that the
Commission has "an affirmative duty, in its public interest
determinations, to give full consideration to program service." "7 As the Commission explained:
"It has long been an established policy of broadcasters
themselves and of the Commission that the American
14 Confronted as it was by the Commission's resistance to its format
doctrine, it is easy to understand why the Court of Appeals felt compelled to undertake this task.
15 Policy Statement, 60 F. C. C. 2d, at 863.
16 Public Service Responsibility of Broadcast Licensees (1946).
'IId.,

at 12.

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

system of broadcasting must serve significant minorities
among our population, and the less dominant needs and
tastes which most listeners have from time to time." 11
This theme was reiterated in the Commission's 1960 Program Statement, 9 which set forth 14 specific categories of programming that were deemed "major elements usually necessary to meet the public interest, needs and desires of the
community," 20 and which emphasized the necessity of each
broadcaster's programming serving the "tastes and needs" of
its local community." To ensure that licensee programming
serves the needs of the community, the Commission has, for
example, decreed that licensees have a special obligation to
provide programs for children, even going so far as to declare
that licensees must provide "a reasonable amount of [children's] programming which is designed to educate and inform-and not simply to entertain." 22
Moreover, in examining renewal applications, the Commission has considered claims that a licensee does not provide
adequate children's programming, 23 or programming for
women and children,'2 or for a substantial Spanish-American
community, 25 or that the licensee has ignored issues of significance to the Negro community,6" or has not provided
programming of specific interest to residents of a particular
1 Id., at 15.
19 En Banc Programming Inquiry, 44 F. C. C. 2303 (1960).
20 Id., at 2314
21Id., at 2312.
22 Children's Television Report and Policy Statement, 50 F. C. C. 2d 1,
6 (1974).
23Channel 20, Inc., 70 F. C. C. 2d 1770 (1979).
24 Community Television of Southern California, 72 F. C. C. 2d 349
(1979)
25 Central California Communications Corp., 70 F. C. C. 2d 1947 (1979).
26Mississippi Authority for Educational TV, 71 F. C. C. 2d 1296 (1979);
Alabama Educational Television Comm'n, 33 F. C. -C. 2d 495 (1971),
renewal denied, 50 F. C. C. 2d 461 (1975).

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

area.2 7 In each case, the Commission reviewed submissions
ranging from general summaries to transcripts of programs,
to determine whether the licensee's programming met the
public-interest standard.
There is an obvious inconsistency between the Commission's recognition that the "public interest" standard requires
it to consider licensee programming in the situations described above and its Policy Statement on review of entertainment program formats. Indeed, the sole instance in
which the Commission will not consider listener complaints
about programming is when they pertain to proposed changes
in entertainment program formats. The Policy Statement
attempts to explain this exceptional treatment of format
changes by drawing a distinction between entertainment
and nonentertainment programming. The Policy Statement
suggests that the Commission reviews only nonentertainment
programming, and even then, only in special circumstances.
Thus, the Policy Statement argues that the fairness doctrine
and political broadcasting rules issued pursuant to § 315, 47
U. S. C. § 315, allow the Commission to exercise direct con27

1 Educational Broadcasting Corp., 70 F. C. C. 2d 2204 (1979).
As the majority notes, ante, at 602-603, the Commission recently voted
to reduce its role in regulating several aspects of commercial radio broadcasting, including regulation of nonentertainment programming. Thus,
the Commission has announced its intention of eliminating its current
guideline on the amounts of nonentertainment programming that radio
stations should air. And the Commission has indicated that petitions to
deny license renewals based on only the quantity of a licensee's nonentertainment programming will no longer be sufficient to support a
challenge. For example, a petitioner would have to show that a licensee
is doing little or no programming responsive to community issues in order
to successfully challenge renewal of the license. Nonetheless, the Com-

mission reiterated that nonentertainment programming is still a relevant
issue for petitions to deny, that licensees have an obligation to offer nonentertainment programming addressing issues facing the community, and
that the Commission will continue to inquire into the reasonableness of
licensee programming decisions. See Deregulation of Radio, 46 Fed. Reg.
13888, 13890-13897 (1981) (to be codified at 47 CFR Parts 0 and 73).

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

trol of programming. In these areas, reasons the Statement,
the Commission's role "is limited to directing the licensee to
broadcast some additional material so as not to completely
ignore the viewpoints of others in the community." 28 This
"limited involvement in licensee decisionmaking in the area
of news and public affairs" 2" is contrasted, in the Commission's view, to "the pervasive, censorial nature of the involvement in format regulation." 30 The majority presumably
concludes that the Commission has provided a rational explanation for distinguishing between entertainment and
nonentertainment programming. With all due respect, I
disagree.
In the first place, the distinction the Commission tries to
draw between entertainment and nonentertainment programming is questionable. It is not immediately apparent, for
example, why children's programming necessarily falls on the
"nonentertainment" side of the spectrum, and the Commission has provided no explanation of how it decides the category to which particular programming belongs. Second, I
see no reason why the Commission's review of entertainment
programming cannot be as limited as its review of nonentertainment programming. Nothing prevents the Commission
from limiting its role in reviewing format changes to "directing the licensee to broadcast additional material," thereby
ensuring that the viewpoints of listeners who complain about
a proposed format change are not completely ignored.
Third, and most important, neither the fairness doctrine nor
the political broadcasting rules have anything to do with the
various situations described above in which the Commission
has not hesitated to consider program formats in making the
"public interest" determination. The fairness doctrine imposes an obligation on licensees to devote a "reasonable per2sDenial of Reconsideration, 66 F. C. C. 2d, at 83 (emphasis in original).
29Ibid.
30 Ibid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

centage" of broadcast time to controversial issues of public
importance, and it requires that the coverage be fair in that
it accurately reflect the opposing views. See Red Lion
Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367 (1969). The political broadcasting rules regulate broadcasts by candidates for
federal and nonfederal public office. See The Law of Political Broadcasting and Cablecasting, 69 F. C. C. 2d 2209
(1978). The Commission's examination of whether a broadcaster's format includes programming directed at women or at
residents of the local community, or its requirement that licensees provide programming designed to serve the unique
needs of children, simply has nothing to do with either the
fairness doctrine or the political broadcasting rules. Thus,
the Commission's purported justification for its inconsistency
is no explanation at all, and I am puzzled by the majority's
apparent conclusion that it provides a rational basis for the
Commission's policy.
The majority attempts to minimize the inconsistency in
the Commission's treatment of entertainment and nonentertainment programming by postulating that the difference "is
not as pronounced as it may seem," ante, at 602. This observation, even if accurate, is simply beside the point. What
is germane is the Commission's failure to consider listener
complaints about entertainment programming to the same
extent and in the same manner as it reviews complaints about
nonentertainment programming. Thus, whereas the Commission will hold an evidentiary hearing to review complaints
about nonentertainment programming where "'it appears
that the licensee has . . . actredl unreasonablv or in bad
faith,'" ibid. (quoting Mississippi Authority for Educational
TV, 71 F. C. C. 2d 1296, 1308 (1979)), the Commission will
not consider an identical complaint about a licensee's change
in its entertainment programming. As I have indicated,
see supra, at 614-616, neither the Commission nor the majority
is able to offer a satisfactory explanation for this inconsistency.

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

Nor can the Commission find refuge in its claim that
"'[e]ven after all relevant facts [h]ad been fully explored
in an evidentiary hearing, [the Commission] would have no
assurance that a decision finally reached by [the Commission] would contribute more to listener satisfaction than the
result favored by station management.'" Policy Statement,
60 F. C. C. 2d 858, 865 (1976), quoting Notice of Inquiry, 57
F. C. C. 2d 580, 586 (1976). The same must be true of the
decisions the Commission makes after reviewing listener complaints about nonentertainment programming, and I do not
see why the Commission finds this result acceptable in one
situation but not in the other. Much the same can be said
for the majority's suggestion that the Commission should be
spared the burden of "presuming to grasp, measure and
weigh . . .elusive and difficult factors" such as determining

the number of listeners who favor a particular change and
measuring the intensity of their preferences, ante, at 601.
But insofar as the Commission confronts these same "elusive
and difficult factors" in reviewing nonentertainment programming, it need only apply the expertise it has acquired
in dealing with these problems to review of entertainment
programming.
III
Since I agree with the Court of Appeals that there may
be situations in which the Commission is obliged to consider
format changes in making the "public interest" determination mandated by the Act, it seems appropriate to comment
briefly on the Commission's claim that the "'acute practical
problem[s]' inherent in format regulation render entirely
speculative any benefits that such regulation might produce." " One of the principal reasons given in the Policy
Statement for rejecting entertainment format regulation is
that it would be "administratively a fearful and comprehen11Brief for Federal Communications Commission and United States 35.

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

sive nightmare," 12 that would impose "enormous costs on the
participants and the Commission alike." " But at oral argument before the Court of Appeals, Commission counsel conceded that the "'administrative nightmare'" argument was
an "'exaggeration'" which was not "'very significant at all'"
to the Commission's ultimate conclusion. 197 U. S. App.
D. C., at 330, 610 F. 2d, at 849. The Commission's reliance
on claims that its own counsel later concedes to lack merit
hardly strengthens one's belief in the rationality of its
decisionmaking.
Although it has abandoned the "administrative nightmare"
argument before this Court, the Commission nonetheless
finds other "intractable" administrative problems in format
regulation. For example, it insists that meaningful classification of radio broadcasts into format types is impractical,
and that it is impossible to determine whether a proposed
format change is in the public interest because the intensity of listener preferences cannot be measured.3 4 Moreover,
the Commission argues that format regulation will discourage licensee innovation and experimentation with formats,
and that its effect on format diversity will therefore be
counterproductive.
None of these claims has merit. Broadcasters have operated under the format doctrine during the past 10 years,
yet the Commission is unable to show that there has been
no innovation and experimentation with formats during this
period. Indeed, a Commission staff study on the effectiveness of market allocation of formats indicates that licensees
have been aggressive in developing diverse entertainment formats under the format-doctrine regime. 5 This "evidence"32

Policy Statement, 60 F. C. C. 2d, at 865.
Id., at 864.
34 The Commission also insists that any findings about the financial
viability of a particular format would be entirely speculative.
35 See Policy Statement, supra, at 873-881.
33

FCC v. WNCN LISTENERS GUILD
582

MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

a welcome contrast to the Commission's speculation-undermines the Commission's claim that format regulation will
disserve the "public interest" because it will inhibit format
diversity.
The Commission's claim that it is impossible to classify
formats, is largely overcome by the Court of Appeals' suggestion that the Commission could develop "a format taxonomy
which, even if imprecise at the margins, would be sustainable
so long as not irrational." 36 197 U. S. App. D. C., at 334,
610 F. 2d, at 853. Even more telling is the staff study relied
on by the Commission to show that there is broad format
diversity in major radio markets, for the study used a format
classification based on industry practice. 7 As the Court of
Appeals noted, it is somewhat ironic that the Commission
had no trouble "endorsing the validity of a study largely
premised on classifications it claims are impossible to make."
Ibid.38 To be sure, courts do not sit to second-guess the as36 There have been a number of comments and suggestions about how
the Commission might best accomplish this task. See, e. g., 57 F. C. C.
2d, at 587-589 (concurring statement of Commissioner Hooks); D. Ginsburg, supra n. 9, at 316; Note, Judicial Review of FCC Program Diversity
Regulation, 75 Colum. L. Rev. 401, 436-437 (1975).
The Court of Appeals suggested that the Commission could consider an
alternative approach of "dispensing altogether with the need for classifying formats by simply taking the existence of significant and bona fide listener protest as sufficient evidence that the station's endangered programming has certain unique features for which there are no ready substitutes."
197 U. S. App. D. C., at 334, n. 47, 610 F. 2d, at 853, n. 47. The court
indicated that "this approach would focus attention on the essentials of
the format doctrine, namely, that when a significant sector of the populace
is aggrieved by a planned programming change, this fact raises a legitimate
question as to whether the proposed change is in the public interest." Id.,
at 334-335, n. 47, 610 F. 2d, at 853-854, n. 47.
37 See Policy Statement, supra, at 875-880.
38 Nor do I find merit in the Commission's claim that there are serious

First Amendment problems with format regulation. In the first place, I
see no reason to find constitutional defect in limited review of entertainment formats when no such defect arises with review of nonentertainment

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

450 U. S.

sessments of specialized agencies like the Commission. But
where, as here, the agency's position rests on speculations
that are refuted by the agency's own administrative record,
I am not persuaded that deference is due. 9
IV
The Commission's Policy Statement is defective because it
lacks a "safety valve" procedure that would allow the necessary flexibility in the application of the Commission's general
policy on format changes to particular cases. In my judgment, the Court of Appeals' format doctrine was a permissible attempt by that court to provide the Commission with
some guidance regarding the types of situations in which a
re-examination of general policy might be necessary. Even
if one were to conclude that the Court of Appeals described
these situations too specifically, a view I do not share, I still
think that the Court of Appeals correctly held that the Commission's Policy Statement must be vacated.
I respectfully dissent.

programming. In Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367, 395
(1969), we held that the Commission does not transgress the First Amendment "in interesting itself in general program format and the kinds of
programs broadcast by licensees." Indeed, First Amendment principles,
if anything, would support format review as requested by listeners, for
as we indicated in Red Lion "[i]t is the [First Amendment] right of the
viewers and listeners, not the right of the broadcasters, which is paramount." Id., at 390.
39 All this suggests that the "practical difficulties" the Commission has
identified are not intractable, and that these problems could be solved if
the Commission channelled as much energy into devising workable standards as it has devoted to mischaracterizing the Court of Appeals' format
doctrine.

