OPINION OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICE IN
CHAMBERS
BUREAU OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, UNITED STATES

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE v. LONG

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-720.

Decided March 3, 1981

An application for a stay of the District Court's order requiring applicant,
pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, to turn over to respondents certain information regarding tax audit standards is denied, and a
previously granted temporary stay is vacated, in view of applicant's
failure, under the circumstances, to amend its answer in the District
Court to raise additional defenses.

Circuit Justice.
Applicant Bureau of Economic Analysis, a division of the
United States Department of Commerce, seeks to stay an
order of the United States District Court for the Western
District of Washington ordering applicant, pursuant to the
Freedom of Information Act, 5 U. S. C. ยง 552, to turn over
to respondents certain information regarding tax audit standards. The procedural history of this case is somewhat confusing. In 1975 respondents commenced an action against
the Internal Revenue Service to obtain certain data. Respondents prevailed in that suit and the IRS appealed to the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. While that action
was pending, respondents commenced this action in the District Court against applicant to obtain similar data in its
possession and, on February 20, 1979, moved for summary
judgment. In May 1979, the Ninth Circuit ruled against
the IRS, Long v. Internal Revenue Service, 596 F. 2d 362
(1979), cert. denied, 446 U. S. 917 (1980), but remanded the
case so that the IRS could raise certain additional defenses.
JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

450 U. S.

On October 17, 1980, the IRS on remand did indeed amend
its answer to raise the additional defenses. Significantly,
however, the applicant did not amend its answer in this case.
On January 12, 1981, the District Court entered summary
judgment against applicant on the ground of its "unreasonable delay" in amending its answer to respondents' complaint
and ordered that the sought-after information be disclosed.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit has declined to
stay the District Court's order.
In its application for a stay, the applicant asserts that
it is likely to prevail on the merits and that it will suffer
irreparable harm if the tax information is disclosed. Although I express no views as to the probability of this Court
granting a petition for certiorari should applicant lose its
appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, I think
if Congress makes the Government answerable as a defendant in the courts of the United States, the Government is
obligated to abide by the rules prescribed for it as a litigant.
It is my view that the applicant, by failing to amend its
answer in this case for more than a year and a half after the
Ninth Circuit's decision in Long v. InternalRevenue Service,
rendered itself liable for summary judgment. The applicant
argues that any delay was not unreasonable, since it wrote
a letter to the District Court on October 16, 1979, saying
that it would be inappropriate to render summary judgment
in this case until a final resolution of Long v. Internal Revenue Service. But the United States Attorney's two-paragraph letter falls well short of an amendment of its answer
in this case. Accordingly, I am unwilling to exercise my
authority as Circuit Justice at this stage of the litigation and
stay the order of the United States District Court for the
Western District of Washington.
Accordingly, the temporary stay heretofore granted by me
on February 23, 1981, is vacated, and the application for
stay is denied.

