DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

197

Erwin v. Parham 6t al.

fer was made solely to enable him to obtain payment of these.
notes by means of the contract with Lippitt, and that payment
was thus obtained.
Other questions have been made in the case, which we have
not found it necessary to decide. Our opinion is that the decree
of the Circuit Court should be reversed and the bill dismissed
with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court
with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint with costs.

ANDREW ERWIN, APPELLANT, V. WILLIAM' S. PARHAM, JAMES
DICK, AND HENRY R. W. HILL.
Where a bill in chancery states that, at an execution sale, which was alleged to have
been open and fir, the complainant purchased, for the sum o'.Q6,00, certain promri-oy notes secured by mortgage. amounting in the whole to $260,000, and the bill
was demurred to, and die demurrer sustained by the Circuit Court, this judgment
must be reversed.
Mere inadequacy of price does not, of itself, furnish a sufficient reason for dismissing
the bill, or deciding that the complainant was entitled to no relief whatever.

Tnis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Louisiana, sitting as a court of
equity.
It came up upon a demurrer to a bill filed by Andrew Erwin,
which demurrer was sustained by the court, and the bill dismissed with costs. -The facts set forth in the bill, arranged in
chronological order, were as follows:In the year 1839, James M. Wall, a citizen of the State of
Mississippi, appears to have been in possession of two plantations in Louisiana; and on the 16th of November, in that year,
sold them, together with the stock and slaves upon them, to
William S. Parham, for a sum amounting very nearly to $300,000. Of this consideration, 35,200 were in cash, and the residue in thirteen promissory notes, each for the sum of $20,369.23,
payaule on the 1st of January, 1842, 1843, 1844, 1845, 1846,
171,

198

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin v. Parham et al.

1847, 1848; 1849, 1850, 1851, 1852, 1853, 1854. These notes
were drawn in favor of Wall, made payable and negotiable at
the Citizens Bank of New Orleans, and were indorsed "Ve
varietur" by the notary before whom the deed was acknowledged, and secured by a mortgage of the property. It was further stipulated in the deed, that Parham was to settle all claims
against the property, and have a credit upon the notes for whatever sums be might pay. A list of the mortgages outstanding
upon the property was waived by the parties, because, as was
stated in the deed, " Parham was advised of the mortgages existing on, said property." The list nowhere appeared in the
record.
In 1842 Wall, being a resident of Mississippi, was sued in
the Circuit Court of the United States for that district, by one
William M. Beal, a resident and citizen of Louisiana; and a
judgment was recovered at the May term in said suit for
$2,365.13. An execution was issued upon this judgment against
Wall, which was returned "nulla bona."
On the 1st of August, 1842, Parham conveyed to his mother,
Elizabeth Jane Parham, who was also the mother of Wall, all
the property which had been conveyed to him by Wall on the
16th of November, 1839. The consideration for this deed was,
that the grantee should pay the thirteen promissory notes above
mentioned (except the sum of $18,000, which was stated to
have been paid on account of them) ; that the grantee should
also pay to one W. Ford, Jr., $6,986.52, which Parham owed
in three separate notes, and should also pay sundry small debts,
not exceeding in the whole five thousand dollars.
On the 20th of November, 1845, Beal filed a petition in the
Ninth District Court of the State of Louisiana, setting forth the
judgment which he had recovered against Wall in the State of
Mississippi, and praying that it might be made executory in Louisiana. An order of seizure and sale was accordingly granted,
and, on the 19th of January, 1846, a writ of fieri facias was
issued to the sheriff of the parish of MIadison, commanding him
to seize all and singular the property movable or immovable,
rights and credits of Wall within his parish.
On the 24th of January, 1846, the sheriff levied this execution
upon the thirteen promissory notes above described.
On the first Saturday in May, 1846, the said sheriff, after
having carefully and strictly observed and, complied with and
performed all the solemnities and formalities 'required b~y the law
and the statute in such case made and provided, sold two of the
thirteen promissory notes, viz., the two which were due on 1st
January, 1846 and 1847, to Andrew Erwin, the appellant, and
one John W. Nixon, as equal proprietors, for the sum of $300,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

199

Erwini v. Parham et al.

that being the last and highest bid, and conveyed the same to
the purchasers in due form of law.
On the same day, and after the above sale, the sheriff exposed
to sale the remaining eleven notes, which were purchased by
Erwin alone, and a deed executed for them by the sheriff.
On the 31st of January, 1846, between the seizure and sale,
WVall acknowledged, before a notary-public, that he was indebted
to Dick and Hill in the sum of $35,979.53; that he had given
them his promissory note for that amount, due on 1st April
following; and that, to secure the payment thereof, he, on that
day, pledged, transferred, and delivered to said Dick and Hill,
two of the thirteen notes above mentioned, viz., those which
were due on 1st January, 1845 and 1846, respectively.
In the mean time, but when the record did not show exactly,
Elizabeth Parham, the mother, died, leaving Parham and Wall
her heirs at law.
At some period subsequent to the above transactions, but
when the record did not show, Dick and Hill got possession of
the rest of the thirteen promissory notes, two of which had been
pledged to them by WVall, as above stated.
On the 2d of January, 1847, Dick and Hill, being thus in possession of the notes, caused the mortgagcd property, for the
purchase of which the notes were given, to be levied upon and
seized by the sheriff of the parish of Madison, and exposed to
sale at public auction. They became the purchasers at the sale
for the sum of $50,000.
On the 26th of February, 1047, Erwin filed his bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for Louisiana, setting forth,
in great detail, the above facts; and averring that Nixon had
sold his half of the two notes purchased by him and Erwin
conjointly, to some person unknown. The bill charged Dick
and Hill with a corrupt, fraudulent, and iniquitous combination
and conspiracy, to and with Wall, to cheat, defraud, and injure
the creditors of Wall, and especially the complainant. It averred, that Dick and Hill were the creditors of Wall (if at all)
only for advances made upon crops, which advances had been
fully paid; that the sale by them of the mortgaged property
was therefore wholly unnecessary; that the sum of $50,000 waa
an inadequate price; that, if they ha& a claim upon Wall for
a sum less than $50,000, the residue, after paying themselves,
ought to be shared amongst the creditors of Wall, amongst
whom the complainant was one; that Wall was in the enjoyment of all the large revenues from the property. The bill then
prayed that Parham should be adjudged to pay, &c., and in
default thereof that the property might be sold. It further
prayed for an injunction upon..Parham, Dick, and Hill, forbidding

SUPREME
Erwin v.

COURT.

Parham et al.

them from selling the property, or disposing in any manner of
any of the revenues or crops.
An injunction was granted, and the defendants appeared and
answered; but afterwards withdrew their answers and demurred
to the bill.
On the 8th of February, 1848, the Circuit Court dissolved the
injunction,' and dismissed the bill, with costs; whereupon, the
complainant appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr. ohnson, who made the following
points:
1. That the notes, from 1 to 13, inclusive, by virtue of the
executory process of seizure and sale and purchase, averred in
the bill, became the property of the complainant in his own
right as to eleven of them, and to one half of the other two;
the other half having been originally in J. W. Nixon.
2. That, as such owner of- said notes, he had a specific lien
upon the property, real and personal, mentioned in the bill.
3. That, upon that ground alone, as well as upon the ground
of discovery, he had a right to the relief prayed.
4. That he was entitled to relief, also, upon the ground of
the corrupt combination and conspiracy between the defendants,
Dick and Hill, and James M. Wall, to defraud the complainant,
as well as upon the ground of like combination and conspiracy
between Dick and Hill and William S. Parham, to defraud the
creditors of said Wall.
5. That if the property, subject to the incumbrance of said
notes, is not in the hands of Dick and Hill responsible for the
whole amount of the notes, it is at least responsible in the proportion that said amount bears to the sum of $35,979.79, with
the interest thereon, being the amount of the note made by
Wall to Dick and Hill, dated 31st January, 1846.
6. The rule established in 5 Peters and 11 Gill & Johnson, is
that if, besides inadequacy of price, there be suspicion of fraud,
equity will leave the party to his remedy at law. But here there
is nothing but mere inadequacy of price. We bought at a
judicial sale, and all the preliminary steps required by law are
alleged in the bill, and admitted by the demurrer to have been
taken.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the op~lion of the court.
This case comes up from the equity side of the Circuit Court
for the Fifth Circuit and District of Louisiana, by appeal from a
decree supporting a demurrer to a bill -of complaint filed by the
present appellant.
The bill, filed 24th February, 1847, states, in substance, that

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

201

Erwin v. Parham et al.

in the year 1842, one 'WilliamM. Beal, a resident of the city of
New Orleans, obtained judgment in the United States Circuit
Court for the Southern District of Mississippi, against James M.
Wall, for the sum of $2,265.13 besides costs. That upon this
judgment execution was issued in the last-mentioned district,
where Wall then resided, and that such execution was returned
"nuwlla bona." That subsequently, and in the year 1845, this
judgment being in full force and unpaid, Beal filed his petition
in the Ninth District Court of the State of Louisiana, held in and
for the parish of Madison, setting forth the judgment and praying that by the law of Louisiana it might be made executory
in that State, and that process thereon might bp granted him
against all the property, real and personal, rights and aredits of
Wall, in the State of Louisiana, and that they might be applied
to the satisfaction of his rightful claim. That executory process was granted by the court so petitioned, and that in pursuance of an order of seizure and sale thereupon made, a writ
of fi. fa. was, on or about the 19th March, 1846, issued to the
sheriff of the parish of Madison, commanding him to seize all
the property, rights and credits of Wall, within his parish, and
to sell them for the liquidation of the aforesaid judgment. That
in accordance herewith, the sheriff did, on the 24th January,
1846, seize all the right, title and interest of Wall, in and to
thirteen certain promissory notes, each and all of them bearing
date on the 16th January, 1839, each for the sum of $20,369.23,
payable respectively on the 1st of January, 1842, and upon each
succeeding 1st of January until and including the 1st of January,
1854. Each and all of these notes being signed and executed
by "William S. Parham to and in favor of James M. Wall, and
paraphed "e varietar" by A. J. Lowry, Esq., Notary-Public in
and for the parish of Madison, in order to identify the said notes
with an act of mortgage and sale, passed before said Lowry on
16th November, 1839, between William S. -P~rham as Vendee,
and James M. Wall, as vendor, by which deed the payment of
these thirteen notes bore a mortgage and privilege upon certain property, movable and immovable, in said deed described,
together with all and singular the mortgage, liens and privileges
by said deed created, or which, by operation and effect of law,
subsisted to and in favor of James M. Wall.
That the sheriff did advertise the property so seized for the
satisfaction of the judgment in favor of Beal; and on the first
Saturday of May, 1846, having complied witf all the requisites
of the law, exposed for sale, at public auction, twvo of the pro.
missory notes, viz.: those falling due the 1st of January, in the
years 1846 and 1847; and that these two notes were, for the
sum of $300, purchased by this appellant and one John W.

202

SUPREME COUItT.
Erwin v. Parham et al.

Nixon conjointly, together with all. the right, mortgages, equities
and privileges appertaining thereto, that being the last and highe bid. Whereupon said two notes, together -ith all the mortgages, &c., pertaining to them, were conveyed by the sheriff to
the appellant and said John W. Nixon.
That at the same time, the eleven other of the said notes were,
for the further sum of $300, sold and conveyed by the sheriff to
the appellant, together with all and singular the equities, &c.,
attaching to them. The following is the sheriffs return on the
execution, exhibited as part of the bill.
"Received on the 19th day of January, 1846, and executed on
the 24th day of January of the same year, by attaching, in the
hands of William S. Parham, all the notes described in the notice
of seizure, and by seizing the same as described in the said notice
of seizure, by virtue of the within writ; and after having advertised the same for the space of fifteen clear days, the sale to take
place on the first Saturday of March, 1846, and on which first
Saturday of March, 1846, I proceeded to offer the same for sale
for cash, after causing the same to be appraised, and no person
present bid for said property two thirds of the appraisement of
the same, no sale was affected. Wherefore I, the sheriff, readvertised the same upon a credit of twelve months, for the space
of thirty clear days, the sale to take place on the-first Saturday
of May, 1846, on which said first Saturday of May, 1846, I, the
said sheriff, proceeded to"offer the said property for sale upor4 a
credit of twelve months, at the court-housp door in Richmond,
.La., and J. J. Amonette being present and acting, as agent for
Andrew Erwin, and Robert Garland being present and acting
as agent for John M. Nixon, bid for the notes described in said
notice of seizure, due 1st January, 1846, and 1st January, 1847,
the sum of $300, which being the last bid or offer made, the
same'was struck off and adjudicated to the said Erwin and Nixon,
at and for the said sum of $300; and at the same above-described day I, the sald sheriff, proceeded to offer the eleven other
notes, as described in the notice of seiz.-'e annexed hereto and
made a part bf this return, on the terms and conditions above
described, and no person, being present, bid therefor two thirds
of the appraised value of the said property,, no sale was effected.
Whereupon I, the said sheriff, readvertised the same, the sale
to take place at the town -of Richmond aforesaid, on the first
Saturday of May, 1846, upon a credit of twelve months, for the
space of thirty clear days; I, the said sheriff, proceeded to offer,
on the said first Saturday of May, 1846, at the town of Richmond aforesaid, the said property; and James J. Amonette being
present, and acting as agent for Andrew Erwin, bid therefor the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

203

Erwin v. Parham et al.

sum of $300, which being the last and highest bid or offer made,
I, the said sheriff, struck off and adjudicated the said property to
the said Andrew Erwin, at and for the said sum of $300; and
the said Amonette, acting as counsel for the plaintiff herein, has
authorized me, the sheriff, to credit this writ the amount of each
of said bids, $600.
"Richmond, La., May 13, 1846."
That at the time of the seizure of all these several promissory
notes, they were in the possession or control of James M. Wall,
and he was at that time invested with all the liens, equities, &c.,
pertaining to them.
That of all the proceedings of the sheriff of Madison, by virtue of this execution, and of the sale of the several notes to the
appellant and Nixon, both Wall and Parham, and all claiming
under them, had due legal and constructive notice.
That Nixon had, a few weeks before the filing of the bill, parted with all his interest in the two notes which he had purchased
conjointly with the appellant, to some person unknown to the
appellant.
The bill then states, that on or about the 16th of November,
1839, James iN.Wall was seized and possessed of two large and
valuable plantations, of a greit number of negroes, and of a
large stock and all the utensils, &c., pertaining to so extensive
an estate; aud being so seized and possessed, he, on the day and
year last mentioned, conveyed the same to William S. Parham,
in consideration of the kum of $299,999.99, of which a portion
was paid in cash, and the rest was represented by the thirteen
several promissory notes above referred to.
That notwithstanding James I. Wall and all claiming under
him had legal and constructive notice of the sheriff's seizure on
the 24th of January, 1846, of these various promissory notes, yet
the said WsVl did, on the 21st of January of the' same year, execute his promissory note to James Dick and Henry R. V. Hill
for $1,846.46, payable on the 1st of April, 1846, and, as security
therefor, pledged those two of the notes of Parham in favor of
Wall, falling due the 1st January, 1845, ana 1st January, 1846.
The bill further states, that within a few weeks before the
date thereof, the said Dick and Hill had become possessed of
the eleven other notes, but by whaf means the appellant knows
iot. That said Dick and Hill had recently discharged William
S. Parhara from all liability to Wall, or any person or persuns claiming under said Wall. That the notes of Parnarn, in
favor of Wa l, and above referred to, cannot be met by the
drawer unless the property purchased by. him of Wall, and
charged with the payment thereof, be subjected to their liquidation.

204

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin v. Parham et al.

That the said Dick and Hill, being possessed of the said thirteen
promissory notes, and professing to act in virtue of the mortgages, equities, and liens pertaining to such notes, had, on the 2d
of January, 1847, levied upon, seized, and at public auction
sold to themselves, as highest bidders, the property charged with
the payment of these notes, for the sum of $50,000; but the
complainant cannot state by virtue of and for what particular
note or notes.
That the sum of $50,000, the alleged consideration-money for
this sale, was less than one third of the real value of the property
sold.
The bill alleges that the proceedings between Dick and Hill and
Wall, and between Dick and Hill and Parham, were the result of
combination and conspiracy to defraud the complainant. That
on the 1st of August, 1842, William S. Parham, by deed, conveyed to Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Parham, (the mother of the said
Parham and of James M. Wall,) all and singular the property,
real and personal, which in the year 1839 had been conveyed by
said Wall to said Parham, for and upon consideration, amongst
others, that the said Elizabeth Jane- Parham would discharge
the thirteen promissory notes charged upon the property, but
that the said. Elizabeth Jane Parham was at the time of this
conveyance aged and infirm, and without any other means of
paying for the property than by the profits of the property itself;
charges said conveyance to be fraudulent and void as to the
creditors of Wall or Parham; that it could interpose no hinderance to complainant's recovery. That Elizabeth Jane Parham died in the year 1844, leaving William S. Parham and
James IVI. Wall her heirs at law.
The bill alleges, that the property in question, and upon which
the notes are a lien, is not adequate security for their payment,
unless all the revenues, issues, and profits of the estate be appropriated to their liquidation. That since the sale of the estate to
Parham, such property has greatly depreciated, and that it would
not, at the time of bill filed, bring at public sale any thing like
its real and just value. That the revenues and profits of the estate are from $20,000 to $30,000 per year. That ever since the
conveyance to Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Parham, James AL Wall and
William S. Parham have resided upon the estate; the first having the sole management and control of the property, its issues
and profits, and both deriving their maintenance and support
therefrom.
The bill claims, that if the sale by Dick and Hill was lawflI
and in good faith, that the proceeds of that sale should be distributed pro 'ata among the several thhteen promissory notes;
and after propounding interrogatories, prays the court to award

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Erwin v. Parham et al.

to the complainant the possession of the thirteen promissory
notes, and that he be decreed to have all the liens and privileges
pertaining to said notes: That the conveyance to Airs. Elizabeth
Jane Parham be set aside. That the sale of the 2d January,
1847, under which Dick and Hill claim, be declared null; that
a receiver be appointed, and that the defendants be restrained
by injunction from intermeddling with, or disposing of, the property in question, or using or disposing of any of the said thirteen promissory notes.
On the 5th of Mlarch, 1847, a writ of injunction was granted,
and afterwards answers were lut in by the defendants, but were
subsequently withdrawn, by agreement of counsel, and a demurrer filed, alleging that the bill made out no title to the discovery sought in the interrogatories, and did not contain
sufficient matter of equity to establish the claim for relief.
The hearing coming on upon bill and demurrer, on the 8th of
February, 1848, the demurrer was sustained, the injunction dissolved, and the bill dismissed with costs, and from this decree
the complainant below prosecuted an appeal to this court.
The appellant contends:
1. That the notes from one to thirteen inclusive, by virtue of
the executory process of seizure, sale, and purchase, averred in
the bill, became the property of the complainant in his own right
as to eleven of them, and to one half of the other tvo, the other
half having been originally in J. W. Nixon.
2. That as such owner of said notes, he had a specific lien
upon the property, real and personal, mentioned in the bill.
:3.That upon that ground alone, as well as upon the ground
of discovery, he had a right to the relief prayed.
4. That he was entitled to relief also upon the ground of the
corrupt combination and conspiracy between the defendants,
Dick and Hill and James M. Wall, to defraud the complainant,
as well as upon the ground of like combination and conspiracy
between Dick and Hill and William S. Parham to defraud the
creditors of said Wall.
5. That if the property subject to the incumbrance of said
notes is not in the hands of Dick and Hill responsible for the whole
amount of the notes, it is at least responsible in-the proportion
that said amount bears to the sum of $35,979.79, with the interest thereon, being the amount of the note made by Wall to
Dick and Hill, dated 31st January, 1846.
No counsel appeared for the appellees, Dick, Hill, and Parham;
and as it does not appear by the demurrer on what grounds of
defence the respondents relied in the Circuit Court, or wherefore
the court dismissed the bill, we have examined for ourselves, so
far as we were enabled, whether any legal defect exists in the
VOL. XII.

18

206

SUPREME COURT.
Erwin v. Parham ot al.

prbceeding and process under which the notes were seized and
sold. The bill alleges that all the steps taken were in due form
of law; nor is any thing found in its statements contrary to the
laws of Louisiana, so far as we can ascettain, that will render
the sale void.
And as the bill stands on demurrer, and nothing beyond its
allegations can be considered, it is not possible for us to say that
the complainant is entitled to no relief at all, and therefore dismiss
his bill. He paid only six hundred dollars for these thirteen
notes, calling, in the aggregate, for $260,000 ; but this was paid
on an execution sale, admitted by the demurrer to have been
open to competition, regular and fair. The payer, Parham, may
havte been insolvent, and the mortgage of no value for want of title
in the mortgagor. In such event no startling inadequacy of
price could be predicated of the enormous disparity between the
nominal amount of the notes, and the price paid for them. Complainant is entitled to relief as the case now stands, certainly to
the extent of the six hundred dollars, and interest on it; and he
having a right of possession, and owning the judgment, it is not
perceived how he could be deprived of the notes until his whole
judgment was satisfied. Or, his rights may extend to an enforcement of the mortgage and all the notes. We deem it useless further to speculate on these matters at present.
On the other hand, the execution sale may be void for reasons
that can be brought out in evidence, but which are not now
open to controversy, because the bill alleges that the proceeding
under which complainant purchased was regular and bon4 fide.
Or again, because of want of title in Wall to the notes and
mortgaged property at the date of the levy and sale. These
matters, or any others set up in defence, respondents may bring
forth by their answer if they chink proper to do so.
All we mean now to say is, that complainant has made a
prirn facie case for answer and fbr rqllef; and it is the
duty of respondents, if they mean to defend, to meet that
case by answer, and to show, if they can, that no relief should be
granted; or, if any, to what modified extent compared with the
entire-relief prayed. We therefore feel ourselves bound to reverse the decree, and to overrule the demurrer, with leave to
respondents to answer in the Circuit Court, when this cause
is returned there on our mandate.
Mr. Justice NELSON dissented.
I am unable to assent to the decision of a majority of the
court in this case.
The complainant has purchased, at sheriff's sale, thirteen
promissory notes, given as part of the purchase-money upon a

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

207

Erwin v. Parham et al.

sale of a large plantation and slaves; and secured by mortgage
on the same to an amount exceeding $260,000 for the small suni
of $600 ; and asks the interposition of the extraordinary powers
of this court on the equity side to aid hi'n in realizing this enormous speculation.
I think he should be left to his remedy at law, and this, upon
the established course of proceeding of a court of chancery in
these cases.
In Seymour v. Delancey and others, (6 Johns. Ch. R. 222,) Chancellor Kent held that a specific perforidance of a contract of sale
is not a matter of course; but rests entirely on the discretion of the
court, upon a view of all the circumstances. ' And that though
mere inadequacy of price, independent of other 6ircumstances,
is not, of itself, sufficient to set aside the transaction; yet it may
be sufficient to induce the court to stay the exercise of its discretionary power to enforce a specific performance. All the"cases
on this subject will be found reviewed in that case; and, also,
by Chief Justice Savage in the Court for the Correction of Errors,
where the decree in that case was affirmed. 6 Cow. 445.
The Chancellor, after having referred to many of the cases
particularly, observed that these cases show the antiquity of the
doctrine of the court; and that the power of awarding the specific execution of conLracts, for the sale of land, rested in sound
judicial discretion, and was not to be applied to cases that were
hard, or unfair, or unreasonable, or founded on very inadequate
considerations.
The strong ground against enforcing a contract, where the
consideration is so inadequate as to render it a hard bargain,
and an unequal and unreasonable bargain, is that, if a court of
equity acts at all, it must act ex vigore, and carry the contract
into execution with unmitigated severity; whereas, if the party
be sent to law, .o submit his case to a jury, relief can be afforded
in damages, with a moderation agreeable to equity and good
conscience, and when the claims and pretensions of each party
can be duly attended to, and bc permitted to govern the assessment.
In the case before us, if the court undertakes to give relief, it
would seem, from the established rules of proceeding in equity,
that it will be bound to award to the complainant th6 full
amount of the notes in question; and thus enable him to
realize upwards of $260,000 upon a purchase at the price of
$600; in other words, virtually awarding to him, for this small
consideration, a:' estate, which Wall, one of the defendants, had
sold for a sum exceeding $260,000, as the notes in question constitute part of the purchase-money and the payment secured
upon this estafe.

SUPREME
Erwin v.

COURT.

Parham et al.

The inadequacy of the consideration is far beyond that of any
case that has come under my observation in the course of this
examination, and is such as to shock the common sense of mankind.
In many of the cases in which the court has refused to interfere, mainly on the gr6und of inadequacy of price, only half the
value had been agreed to be given. That was considered as
sufficient evidence of a hard and unconscionable bargain, to induce the court to pause, when its extraordinary powers were
invoked to the aid of the party seeking to realize the advantage
of the contract, and turn him over to a court of law.
The complainant in this case is not without a remedy. If he
has got a legal right, he can go into a court of law and enforce
it. But I do not think 'it a fit case for the interposition of a
court of equity.
I do not regard the allegation of a 'fraudulent attempt on the
part of the defendants, to prevent the complainant from realizing the benefit of his purchase; as the question, whether or not
a court of equity should interfere and grant the relief prayed for,
in my judgment, is wholly uni.ffecfed by any such considerations; for, assuming the fraud should be hereafter established,
and this impediment to the enforcement of the claim set up under
the purchase, removed, even then, according to the course of proceeding in a court of equity, as already stated, that court would
withhold its extraordinary power from aiding the party to obtain
so unjust and unconscionable advantage, and turn him over to a
court of law. By entertaining the case, as presented in the bill,
and directing an answer, the court assumes that, if the complainant can establish the fraud in the transfer of the notes as
charged, he is entitled to its decree for the whole amount of his
purchase; for, as we have seen, a court of equity must act, if at
all, ex vigore, and carry into execution the purchase as it has
been made. It cannot consistently, in the exercise of its power
on this subject, carry the purchase into partial execution by separating it, granting the execution in part, and withholding it
in part. This would be arbitrary, and unsupported by any rule
or principle to guide the judgment of the court.
Whether the court will entertain the case at all, or not, and
give the relief prayed for in these cases, is a question of judicial
discretion; but, when once entertained, and held to be a proper
case for the relief,;there can be no other given, consistent with
evm.ablished principles, than such as the legal title or right set up
carries along with it. If it gives to him an estate in land, the
court cannot stop at a moiety of it; nor, in this case, in awarding any amount less than the $260,000. The legal title to the
whole amount is as complete as to any portion of it.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
The United States v. Moore.

For these reasons, thus briefly given, I am obliged to dissent
from the decision in this case.

Order.
This cause came on to be hehrd on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, odnd the same:is ,hereby, reversed, with costs; and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to overrule the demurrer of the defendants with leave to them to answer, and for such further proceedings, in conformity to the opinion of this court, as to law and
justice may appertain.

THE

UNITED STATES, A-PPELLANTS,

V. MICHAEL MOORE.

An historical account given as to what officer in Louisiana possessed the power to
grant part of the king's domain.
In September, 1797, Morales, who was intendant, had not the power. And a receipt.
of that date, given by him for the purchase-money of lands sold, could convey
no title.
By the regulations of O'Reilly, made in 1770, the front proprietora of land upon the
Mississippi were bound to make mounds or levees, and also to clear and ditch the
whole front of the depth of two arpents, within three years from the date of their
purchases. In default thereof, the land reverted to the king.
This condition not having been complied with in the present ease, and the alleged
proprietor nothaving asserted any claim from 1797 to 1835, the presumption is that
he surrendered his purchase and had his money refunded.
The claim is also barred by lapse of time.
The District Court decreed that "in case any of the lands claimed by the petitioner
should have been sold by the United States, he, the petitioner, should be authorized
to enter, in any land-office in the State of Louisiana, a like quantity of public lands.'
Thi' decree was erroneous. The act of 1844 revived the act of 1824, but did
not revive the act of 1828; and the act of 1824 required the grantees of the
United States to be made parties in order that they might come in and defend
their title. It also intended that these grantees should produce their titles, so
that the court might ascertain their boundaries and quantities, and decree accordingly. But in the decree in question, this was not done.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The act, approved 17th June, 1844, [4 Stat. at Large, p. 676,1
revived and continued for five years, and extended to the State
of Louisiana the expired act of 26th May, 1824, entitled "An
act enabling the claimants to lands within the limits of the State
18 *

