DECEMtBER TERM, 1851.

423

Linton et al. v. Stanton.

District of Virginia, and was aigued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

DUNCAN LINTON, CHARLOTTE LINTON AND HER HUSBAND, FRANCIS SURGETTE, STEPHEN DUNCAN GUARDIAN OF MARY LINTON

AND JOHN LINTON MINORS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. FREDERICK, STANTON.

Where the highest court of a State decided in favor of a defendant who pleaded his
discharge under the bankrupt law of the United States, and the case was brought
to this court under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, this court has no jurisdiction.

It would have been otherwise if the decision had been adverse to the exemptiop
claimed under the law of Congiess.
Promises alleged to have been made by the bankrupt after his discharge are not th,
subject of jurisdiction under the 25th section. The decision of a State court upon
their effect cannot be reviewed by this court.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana for the Eastern District, by a writ of error
issued under the-25th section of the Judiciary Act.
The plaintiffs in error, on the 19th June, 1848, filed their petition in the Third District Court of New Orleans, stating themselves to be residents of Mississippi, and the only heirs and representatives of John Linton, deceased, and as such in possession
of his property.
That on,the 13th May, 1839, the defendant, Stanton, owed the
estate of John, Linton, then deceased, the sum of $11,446.60,
and on that date executed his two promissory notes in favor of
Stephen Duncan, (one of the petitioners, and administrator to
Linton,) one for $5,856.40, due the 1st April, 1841, the other
for $5,590.20, payable the 1st April, 1842.
The petitioners further state, that on the 25th August, 1842,
and also on the 25th December, 1843, the defendant promised
to pay each of these notes, but has neglected and refused to do
so, and that the debt still remains due and unpaid.
The two notes, they state, were made and fell due in the
State of Mississippi, where fhe legal interest on all debts due
and unpaid, is 8 per cent. That the defendant lives in Mississippi, but was then in New Orleans.
They pray judgment against him for the amounts of the notes,
with interest from 13th May, 1839, till paid, and for general
relief.

424

SUPREME COURT.
Linton et al. v.

Stanton.

Stanton filed his exceptions, alleging that the petition did not
fully set out and state the nature of the demand, requiring the
plaintiffs to state whether the promises charged were verbal or
written, and if written, claiming oyer.
Plaintiffs filed two letters from Stanton to Duncan, dated,
respectively, the 25th day of August, 1842, and the 25th December, 1843, to which in their supplemental petition they refer as
the written evidence of the promises alleged in their original
petition, and also charge verbal promises by Stanton to pay,
made both before and after the dates of these letters.
To this supplemental petition, Stanton filed his exception,
alleging that the verbal promises above charged were insufficiently stated, from failure to mention to whom and when they
were made.
The plaintiffs filed an amended petition, stating that, these
verbal promises were made to Stephen Duncan, the representative of John Linton, on each and every day of the years 1842,
1843, 1844, 1845, 1846, and 1847.
Stanton's answer denies all the allegations of the original and
supplemental petitions; and specially pleads, that on the - day
of -,
1842, he applied to the United States District Court, in
and for the State of Mississippi, where he then resided, for the
benefit of the bankrupt law of the United States; and after due
proceeding had, he obtained his discharge and certificate, and
that these proceedings and discharge took place after the date
of the note sued on.
Pleads his discharge in bar, and also that the plaintiffs' demand
is barred by prescription.
His supplemental answers allege that the notes on which
plaintiffs sue, and which were made before his bankruptcy, were
secured by a deed of trust or mortgage upon real estate, and
that the plaintiffs, or Duncan, for their -ctse, .purchased it and
paid for the same by said notes, thus-receiving payment arid
compensation. And further, that by the law of TIississippi,
verbal promises to pay a debt discharged by banruptcy are not
binding.
Amongst the testimony offered on both sides, the defendant
produced the proceedings in bankruptcy.
The District Court of New Orleans decreed in favor of the
defendant.
The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court of Louisiana,
which confirmed th decision below, because, 1st. The jurisdiction of the United States District Court in
matters of bankruptcy not having been contested, a decree of
that court, declaring that all the requisitions of the bankrupt act
had been complied with, was conclusive when drawn collaterally
into question.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

425

Linton et al. v. Stanton.

2d. Because the subsequent promises of the defendant, relied
on by the plaintiffs, did not include this debt.
The plaintiffs thei, brought the case up to this court.
31r. Johnson moved to dismiss the writ of error for want of
jurisdiction.
1st. Because, overthe existence and effect of any promises of
defendant to pay the debt after his discharge under the bankrupt
act, this court has no jurisdiction.
2d. Because the only statute of the United States involved
and drawn into question was that of the 19th August, 1821 (5
Stat. at Large, 440,) and that was relied upon only by defendant;
and the decision of the court below was in favor of, not against,
the only title, right, privilege, or exemption claimed under it.
Judiciary Act, 24th Sept. 1789, c. 20, p. 25, (1 Stat. at Large,
85) ; McKinney v. Carroll, 12 Pet. 67; Crowell v. Randall, 10 Id.
'368; Gill v. Oliver, 11 How. 529; Williams v. Oliver, at the
present term of this court, IS.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana for
the Eastern District, and a motion has been made to dismiss it
for want of jurisdiction.
The plaintiffs in error, it appears, filed their petition in the
Thhd District Court of New Orleans, against the defendant, to
recover certain sums of money which they alleged were due to
them on two promissory notes which had been executed by the
defendant.
The defendant pleaded his discharge under the bankrupt law
of the United States, and at the trial offered in evidence the record of the proceedings in bankruptcy in the District Court in
which he had obtained his certificate. Objeetions were taken
to the regularity and validity of this discharge, but they were
overruled by the court, and judgment rendered for the defendant.
The plaintiffs appealed to the Supreme Court of the State,
where the judgment of the court below was affirmed, and this
writ of error is brought to reverse that judgment.
The writ must, we presume, have been prosecuted under a
misconstruction of the 25th section of the act of 1789, ch. 20.
We have no jurisdiction over the judgment of a State court
upon a writ of error, except in the cases specified in that section.
And the jurisdiction of this court is there limited with great care
and in plain terms. It gives a writ of error to this court where
a party claims a right or exemption under a law of Congress,
and the decision is against the right claimed. Undoubtedly the
defendant in pleading his discharge under the bankrupt law

426

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Porche.

claimed a right or exerhption under a law of Congress. But in
order to give jurisdiction something more is necessary; the judgment of the State court must be against the right claimed. In
the case before us the decision was in favor of it, and consequently no writ of error will lie to this court under the provisions
of the act of 1789.
And as we have no jurisdiction, we cannot examine into the
objections made to the validity of the proceedings in bankruptcy.
The judgment of the State court that they were valid, and the
defendant thereby discharged from the debt due to the plaintiffs,
is conclusive between the parties.
Nor has this court the power to examine into the other question which appears to have arisen as to the legal effect of certain
promises which the defendant is alleged to have made after he
obtained his certificate in the bankrupt court. The legal obligation of such pr.mises depends upon the laws of the State in
which they were made; and in a suit in a State court the decision of that question by the highest tribunal of the State cannot be reviewed in any court of the United States. This case must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana for the
Eastern District, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is pow here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
this cause be,.and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the want
of jurisdictibn.

THEn UNITEI- STATES, APPELLANTv,

AlEE

s PORCHE.

Thieaco of Congress passed on 26th, Alay, 1824, enabling claimants -to ltnd in Mis.
sofri and Arkansas, to try their titles, was revived by the act of 17th Uune, 1844,
and extended to Lonisiana:
By the fifth section of the act of 1824, the claimants were requir a to present Their
claims within two years from the passage of the law.
This section being revived by the act of 1844, claimants were required by the latter
act to present their claims before the 17th of June, 1846.
Acts supplementary to that of 1824 w r(' not revived by the act of 1844. Nothing
was revived except the original act.
The District Court of Louisiana had no jurisdiction, therefore, over a case where the
petition was not presented until the 8th March, 1848.
The ninth section of the act of 1824 does not prevent tha United States from appeali1g, where a claim is for less than one thousand acres.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for Louisiana.

