DECEM1BER

TERM,

1851.

Ives v. TheMerchants Bank of Boston.

pellant. A motion is now made ili behalf of Daniel R. Southard,
one of the appellees, to set aside the decree in this court, and to
remand the case to the Circuit Court for further preparation and
proof, upon the ground that new and material evidencehas
been discbvered slaee the case was heard and decided in that court.
In support of this motion affidavits have been filed stating the
evidence newly discovered, and that it was unknown. to him
when the case was heard in the court below.
It is very clear that affidavits of newly-discovered testimony
cannot be received for such a purpose. This court must affirm
or reverse upon the case as it appears in the record.' We cannot
look out of it, for testimony to influence the judgment of this
court sitting, as an appellate tribunal. And, according to the
practice of the court of chancery from its earliest history to the
present time, no paper not before the Court below can be read"
on the hearing of an appeal. Eden v. Earl Bute, 1 Bro. Par.
Cas. 465; 3 Bro. Par. Cas. 546; Studwell v. Palmer, 5 Paige,
166.
'Indeed, if the established chancery practice had been otherwise, the act of Congress of March 3d, 1803, expressly prohibits
the introduction of new evidence, in this court, on the hearing
of an appeal from a circuit court, except in admiralty and prize
causes.
The motion is therefore overruled.

MOSES B. IVES, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE MERCHANTS BANK
or BOSTON.
The surety for the appellants from a decree in admiralty gave bond to pay all costs
and damaages which might, be adjudged by this court.
This court having affirmed the decree of the Circuit Court with costs and six per cent.
damages, judgment was entered upon the receipt of the mandate by the Circuit
Court, for the amount of the original judgment together with the amount of costs
and damages calculated up to that day; and execution was awarded.
Under this execution, the vessel, which had been attached under the libel, was sold for
less than this aggregate amount.
The surety is not entitled to have a relative proportion of the proceeds of sale applied
to the reduction of hi; bond, but is responsible upon it to the entire amount.
By the 26th section of the Judiciary Act, the courts have power to assess damages
upon bonds, &e., and to render judgment for so much as is due according to equity,
in eases of default or confession or demurrer. This sectioir does not apply to a case
heard on agreed facts.
But then when the case heard on agreed facts was the case of an appeal-bond, it was
proper for the court to give judgment for the penalty of the bond (being less than
the judgment under the mandate) and allow interest from the date of the institution
of the suit, although the amount to be paid in this way would exceed the penalty
of the bond.

160

SUPREME COURT.
Ives v. The Merchanti Bank of Boston.

Tuis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Rhode Island.
It was a consequence of the case of the New Jersey Steam
Navigation Company v. The Merchants Bank of Boston, decided by this court at December term, 1847, and reported in
6 Howard, 344.
The Merchants Bank of Boston were the plaintiffs in the
Circuit Court, and the cause of action is thus stated in the brief
:of the counsel for the plaintiff in error in this court. There was
a special declaration in the Circuit Court, to which the defendant demurred: The facts set forth in the declaration and admitted by the
demurrer, upon which the questions here presented arise, are
shortly these.
The suit in admiralty - New Jersey Steam Navigation Company, Appellant and Libellee, v. The Merchants Bank of Boston,
Libellant and Appellee, lately decided by the Supreme Court of
the United States, and commonly called the Lexington case, was
commenced in the District Court of the District f Rhode Island,
by attachment of the steamer Massachusetts, then belonging to
the Navigation Company. The suit corming by appeal to the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Rhode
Island, a decree therein was rendered against the Navigaion Company at the November Term, 1843; whereupon an
appeal was taken by the company to the Supreme Court of the
United States, and Moses B. Ives, the plaintiff in error, entered
into appeal-bond, as surety for the company, of which he was a
member, in the penal sum of $2500, with the following condition:
"Now, therefore, if the said New Jersey Steam Navigation
Company shall prosecute their said appeal before the said Supreme Court of the United States with effect, and shall well and
truly pay all such costs and damages as shall be adjudged for
them to pay by said Supreme Court, or by said Circuit Court,
by reason of said appeal, then the before-written obligation to
be void and of no effect, otherwise it shall remain in full force
and effect."
The suit terminated in the Supreme Court in a decree in favor
of the libellant and appellee, and execution finally issued against
the Navigation Company for the sum of $28,302.26 debt, and
costs taxed at $680.50, which, together with the sum of 75 cents
for the execution, made the whole amount of the execution
$28,983.51, the debt drawing interest from the 19th day of June,
1848.
Of the debt, so called, embraced in the above execution, the
sum of 86.228.78. consisted of the costs and damages of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

161

Ives v. The Merchants Bank of Boston.
appeal decreed by the Supreme Court, that is to say, $6,078.26
of it was interest on the amount decreed, accruing during the
pendency of the appeal, given by way of damages of the appeal,
and the balance $150.52 were the costs of the appeal. This
sum, $6,228.78, drawing interest from the 19th day of June,
1848, is the sum for which Mr. Ives would have been liable, to
the extent of the penalty of the appeal-bond, had the execution
remained wholly unsatisfied. But the above execution was
levied by the marshal upon the steamer Massachusetts, attached
as aforesaid on the original process in the suit, and on the 26th
day of July, 1848, the Massachusetts was sold by the marshal
under the levy for the sum of $25,000, and, deducting therefrom
the sum of $883.38, the marshal's fees and expenses, the sum
of $24,116.62 was paid over by the marshal to the Merchants
Bank, and the execution thereupon returned satisfied for that
amount, and unsatisfied for the balance, that is to say, between
four and five thousand dollars of the execution remained unpaid.
The present action is an action by the Verchants Bank against
Mr. Ives, the surety on the above appeal-bond to recover the costs
and damages of appeal; and the plaintiff and defendant in error
claimed, below, that he was entitled to apply the 24,116.62, net
proceeds of the Massachusetts, first to that portion of his execution not protected by the appeal-bond, and was compelled to
apply the balance only to that portion of the execution protected:
by the appeal-bond, treating the sum made upon the execution in
the same manner as if it had been a voluntary payment without
direction by the payor, in which case the right of appropriation
remains with the payee. To this result the learned judge who
tried the case below, for various reasons came, and rendered
judgment against Mr. Ives for the penalty of the bond, with
interest from the day of demand by action brought.
The cause was argued in this court by 41r. Ames for the
plaintiff in error, and by Mr. Pitman, upon a brief of T'llinghast
4 Bradlee, for the defendant in error.
The plaintiff in error contended,
1. That, under the facts set forth in the declaration, judgment
should not have been rendered against him for a greater sum, at
the most, than what would remain due of the costs and damages
of the appeal, after deducting therefrom the amount thereof received from the net proceeds of the Massachusetts, applied pro
rata to every portion of the execution, as well to the costs and
damages of appeal for which the plaintiff in error was liable as
surety for the Navigation Company, as to that porion of it for
which he was not liable. In other words, we say that the net
14"

SUPREME COURT.
Ives v. The Merchants Bank of Boston.

amount made by the levy of the execution paid upwards of
eighty per cent. of the amount of the same. Equally apportioned
to the costs and damages of appeal, which it should have been,
it paid upwards of eighty per cent. of them, that is to say, about
$5000 of them; leaving about $1200 of them due with interest
from the day of demand by action brought, for which, at the
most, judgment below should have been rendered against us,
instead of for the whole penalty of the bond with interest.
2. That so far from the law permitting the defendant in error
to apply the amount made on the executon exclusively to the
portion of the debt not secured by the appeal-bond, it will itself
apply it, in the first instance, to the payment of the costs and
damages of appeal in exoneration of the surety on the bond.
3. That, at all events; judgment should not have been rendered for a sum exceeding the penalty of the bond, which is the
utmost extent of our liability; the judgment, so far as interest
on the penalty is concerned, being erroneous.
The points raised by the counsel for the defendant in error
were the following:
1. That the plaintiff in error upon the bond in this suit is a
substitute for the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company, and
that his liabilities are the same as those of the company would
have been, had the bond been executed by them.
2. That the plaintiff in error is, at all events, nothing more
than a surety for the accommodation of the company.
3. That, in either light, he cannot claim a discharge from his
liability, until the debt to the Merchants Bank is paid; and
this, 1st, upon the principle illustrated in the cases 1 Gill &Johns.
346, and 15 Conn. 437. See also Kyner v. Kyner, 6 Watts, 222.
That a creditor holding a security for both portions of his debt,
and a surety also for one portion, may, and the court will, so
apply the securities, as to pay the whole debt. The surety is
not entitled to any transfer or appropriation of securities for
his benefit, until the whole debt is paid. 2d, Upon the rule
of the civil law to be followed in its analo-ies in our courts of
equity, which makes 'a positive appropriation of any payment
first to the debt upon, a judicial demand, and not first to the
interest or damages allowed for the detention of such a debt.
the
by which
only modecan
appropriation
Because
such
3d,
appeal-bond,
be accompurpose
of the
court
in requiring isanthe
plished,'and justice dbne between the parties.
4. We submit that interest on the penalty of a bond from the
date of the writ is allowed against the obligor and sureties on a
bond in the courts of the United States, as shown by the decisions in 1 P'aine and 1 Galison, both confirmed in the Supreme
Court and such also is the prevailing doctrine in other courts.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

163

Ives v. The -Merchants Bank of Boston.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
At November term, 1843, in the Circuit Court of Rhode
Island, the Merchants Bank of Boston recovered against the
New Jersey Steam Navigation Company, by decree in an admiralty suit, the sum of $22,224 and costs of suit. From which
decree the respondents appealed to this court; and on December
14,'1843, Moses B. Ives, the present plaintiff in error, became
bound as surety for the appellants in a penal bond of $2500,
with a condition, "that the said Navigation Company 'should
prosecute their appeal with effect, and should well and truly
pay all such costs and damages as should be adjudged for them
to pay by said Supreme Court, or by said Circuit Court, by
reason of said appeal, in case of failure. At December term,
18,17, the appeal was heard before .the Supreme Court, and the
decree affirmed, with costs and six per cent. damages. On
return of the mandate, a judgment was entered in the Circuit
Court against the Navigation Company, for the original amount;
and also for $6,078.20 damages, arising by reason of the appeal, and for $529.98, being costs covered by the appealbond. The entire sum for principal, damages, and costs, being
$28,452.78. Execution, issued for the aggregate sum, and the
steamboat Massachusetts was sold, 20th July, 1848, for $25,000,
by virtue of the writ. The vessel had been attached when the
proceeding was commenced, and continued subject to a lien until
sold; but, not bringing a sum equal to the final decree, Ives was
sued on his appeal-bond, and the Circuit Court gave judgment
against hhn for the amount of the penalty, and also for six per
cer~t. interest on the $2500, from October 10th, 1848, being the
time when he was served with the writ; the penalty and interest amounting to $2,605.80, for which judgment was rendered
at the June term, 1849. To bring up this judgment, Ives sued
out the present writ of error.
First, it is insisted, and assigned for error, that the $25,000,
made by a sale of the vessel, covered about eighty per cent. of
the amount included in the execution, and ought to have been
proportioned to every part of the demand, and if thus applied to
damages and costs, would have reduced them to about $1200,
and that plaintiff in error was responsible for no more.
Ives was bound to pay such damages as might be awarded by
the Supreme Court, and costs; and could have been sued and
a judgment had against him, had no execution issued. He was
positively bound to the amount of his bond, and could not be
heard to allege an extinguishment of it in par,-because of a
payment made by his principals, leaving an amount due equal
to the bond.
This is the plain equity of the case. If the appeal had not

SUPREME COURT.

164
Ives

v.

The Merchants

Bank of Boston.

been taken, aid the property attached had been sold in due time
after the first decree for $25,000, no damages would have been
sustained by the plaintiffs below, and as the surety was instrumental in delaying satisfaction, it is equitable that he should
respond to such damage as his act occasioned, and which enlarged the amount. The second ground relied on to reverse is,
that by uniform practice costs are deducted from the first proceeds collected on an execution including them; and that a
surety for costs is never held liable when an amount sufficient to
cover costs is made of the principal.
It is not necessary, at present to decide this matter of practice,
nor shall we do so; as the unsatisfied damages, exclusive of
costs, far exceeded the judgment rendered by the Circuit Court.
The third and remaining question is one of general'importance
and some difficulty. The surety was bound in a penal bond,
and this penalty the Circuit Court exceeded, by allowing interest on it from the time of demand by suit; and it is insisted
that in this there was error. The action was debt, with an
allegation of damages sustained by its detention. The parties
came to a hearing on an agreed case which set forth the facts,
and sul mitted the law arising on them to the court; and, as
the 26t i section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 only gives the
courts power to assess damages and to render judgment for so
much as is due according to equity, in cases of default or confession, or on demurrer, it does not apply in cases heard on
agreed facts, or tried upon pleadings and proofs. This court so
held in Farrar & Brown v. The United States, 5 Pet. 385, and
which construction we follow. i the same cause it was adjudged
that, in an action of debt against the sureties of a surveyor
who had received moneys of the United States to disburse, -nd
given bond with sureties to account for them, the practice was
to render judgment in debt for the penalty, to be discharged by
the amount actually due, and that this amount could not exceed
the penalty.
In cases where unascertained damages are claimed, about
which there is a contest, the foregoing is the proper rule; although it was departed from in the case of McGill v. The Bank
of the United States, 12 *Wheat. 514, where payments had
been made by the sureties after a defalcation, and an account
was taken between the parties, and interest calculated on both
sides and a balance struck, which, when added to previous payments, exceeded the penalty of the bond. But these cases
widely differ from the present. Here the surety was bound to
pay damages that might be adjudged against his priacipal in
the Supreme Court. They were established and settled at
$6,078.26; and this judgment bore six ler cent. interest from

DECEMBER TERX0 1851.

165

The Grand Gulf t. R. & Banking Co- et al. v. Marshall.

its date. It was conclusive as against the principal; and equally
conclusive of the fact, that the surety was bound to pay it
to the extent of $2,600. Then this amount was due by the
bond, which could have been at once enforced by suit; and if
the Supreme Court had been vested with power to render judgment against the surety on the appeal-bond, as is the case in
some of the States, no reason would seem to exist, -why the
bond should not bear interest from the date of judgment in the
Supreme Court against the surety as well as against the principal. But as Ives only guaranteed the payment of damages,
and it was a duty imposed on the principal to pay the entire
judgment, the moderate rule has been applidd of requiring interest from the time that demand of payment was made by suit;
a rule now so generally established in similar cases, by State
courts of high authority, that this court could not violate it
without manifest impropriety.
Of course we are dealing with an appeal-bond, and do not
intend to go beyond the case before us. It is, therefore, ordered,
that the judgment rendered by the Circuit Court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On con.
sideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages,
at the rate of six per centum per annum.

THE GRAND GULF RAILROAD AND BANKING COMaPANY, AND
ALFRED INGRAHAM AND GEORGE READ,- ASSIGNEES OF SAID
COMPANY, INTERVENORS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN R.
MARSHALL.
In order to bring a case within the reviewing powyer of this court, is prescribed by the
25th Section of tho Judiciary Act, it is necessary that the record should show that
the point, giving jurisdiction to this court, was raised and decided in the Stato
court.
The preceding decisions upon this subject referred to.
Hence, where it appears from the record that the decision of the State court turned
upon the contructi~u and not the validity of a State law, and that the question
of its validity was not raised, this court has no jurisdiction.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the

