47

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Montault et al v. The United States.

extent, the practice of the State courts, has no reference to a
provision of this description. Indeed, such a provision is inconsistent with the practice and modes of proceeding in the courts
of the United States. For the reasons upon which the opinion
of the inferior court is founded form no part of a record when a
case is brought here by writ of error. They cannot properly be
inserted in a bill of exceptions. The point or principle of law,
as applied to the case before the court, is all that is certified,
and not the reasons upon which the court decided.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration wrhereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages, at
the rate of six per centum per annum.

AUGUSTE

DE

MIONTAULT,

AUGUSTINE

RENE

THERESE

MON.

TAULT BY HER NEXT FRIEND Louis MONTAULT AND WILLIAM
ROGER DE LA CHOUQUAIS, HUSBAND OF THE SAID AUGUSTINE,
Louis MONTAULT, BERNARD DAUTIERRE, VALERIE DAUTIERRE,
ELEANOR DAUTIERRE BY HER NEXT FRiIEND Louis MONTAULT
AND HER HUSBAND AUGUSTIN RICHARD, ADELINE DAUTIERRE,
VIRGINIE DAUTIERRE, BY HER NEXT FRIEND Louis MONTAULT
AND HER HUSBAND Louis BOULIGNY, FANNY DAUTIERRE, THEODORE DAUTIERRE, PAULINE DAUTIERRE BY HER NEXT FRIEND
Louis MONTAULT AND HER HUSBAND SAMUEL LOGAN, APPELLANTS, V. THE UNITED STATES.

This court again decides, as in 9 Howard, 127, 280, and 10 Howard, 609, that, with
respect to the tract of country between the Mississippi and Perdido rivers, south of
the thirty-first degree of north latitude, the authorities of Louisiana had no rijht to
make grants of land after the time of signing the treaty, by which it was ceded to
Great Britain.
That treaty having been signed on the loth of February, 1763, a grant of land in the
above tract of country, i-sued by the French Governor of Louisiana, on the lth
March, 1763, was void.

THIS was an appeal frm the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Alabama. It was a petition
presented under the act of 1824, relating to land titles in Mis.

48

SUPREME COURT.
Montault et al v. The United States.

souri, as revived and made applicable by the act of 1844, to that
part of the State of Alabama, below the thirty-first degree of
north latitude.
The petition sets forth: "That your petitioners are the only
heirs of the Chevalier Montault de Monterault, who, many years
since, departed this life intestate, in the then province, now State,
of Louisiana. Your petitioners further allege; that heretofore,
to wit, on the third day of January, in the year seventeen hundred and sixty-three, the said Chevalier Montault de Monterault
petitioned the then governor of the Colony of Louisiana for the
grant of a tract of land lying south of the thirty-first degree of
north latitude, and between the rivers Mississippi and Perdido,
and within the State of Alabama, bounded by the rivers La
Batture, now known as bayou Battie, the Gulf of Mexico, and
Fowl River, extending into the interior to the sources of those
rivers, and especially that branch of Fowl River, known as the
Elwer or Leslay, which, approaching each other, form a tract of
land or cul-de-sac.
"Your petitioners further allege thbt, heretofore, to wit, on
the eleventh day of March, in the year seventeen hundred and
sixty-three, Louis de Kerlerac, then governor of the Co:ony of
Louisiana, and Dennis Nicholas Faucault, performing the functions of commissary ordonnateur of said province, holding their
appointments under the King of France, executed and delivered
to the said Chevalier Montault de Monterault, a grant to said
tract of land, by virtue of which he possessed it for many years,
and used it for the purpose of cultivation, raising horses and
cattle, and making tar; and the said Montault de Monterault
was, at the time of making said grant, a resident of Louisiana;
and said grant is protected by the treaty between the United
States and FAance for the cession of Louisiana. Your petitioners allege that he never aliened the said land, that it belonged
to him at the time of his death, and-that it has descended to
your petitioners as his legal heirs, and that it contains about
forty-five thousand superficial acres.
"Your petitioners allege, that their claim aforesaid has not
been submitted to the examinationof any of the tribunals which
Jave been constituted by law for the adjustment of land-titlps,
nor reported on by such tribunal. Wherefore, your petitioners
pray that the validity of their claim aforesaid may be inquired
into and decided by the said court; and reserving the right of
amending their petition, and of making other persons parties to
this proceeding if necessary, they pray that a copy of this their
petition be served on the District Attorney of me United States
for the Southern District of Alabama. And they further pray,
that, after proper proceedings, it may be decreed by this court

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

49

Montault et al. v. The United States.

that the title held by your petitioners to the above-described
tract of land is good as against the United States and all persons
claiming under them, and that they may be permitted to locate
elsewhere a quantity of land equal to what the government of
the United States may have sold or granted within the limits
of the grant aforesaid to the Chevalier Montault de MIonterault;
and your petitioners pray for other and further relief, such as the
nature of their case may require."
To this petition the District Attorney filed a general demurrer.
The District Judge sustained the demurrer, and the petitioners
brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by .1r. Lawrence and rf. Badg-er, for the appellants, and by. 11r. Crittenden, Attorney-General, for the
United States.
i. ne counsel for the appellant rested the case upon the following point:
The grant in this case was complete, and the grantee was in
possession of the land and cultivated it.
It is true, the grant bears date about one month after the
treaty of Paris, of the 10th of February, 1763.
But by the treaty of San fldefonso, of October 1, 1800, the
province of Louisiana was retroceded to France.
The permission of undisturbed possession under the grant by
France, after her re-acquisition of the province, amounts to a
confirmation.

.31'. Crittenden, made three points:
1. That on the 11th day of March, 1763, the date of the alleged grant, as stated in the petition, the French authorities, by
whom it is alleged to have been made, had no power to make
such a grant, the country within which the land is situated having been previously ceded by France to Great Britain, to wit,
on the 10th February preceding. The tract of land embraced
xuithin the grant, lies on the shore of the Gulf of Mexico, a
short distance to the west of the entrance of Mobile Bay.
The preliminary articles of peace between Great Britain,
France, and Spain, were signed at Fontainebleau, the 3d November, 1762, and the -definitive treaty at Paris, on the 10th
February, 1763. Marten's Treaties, 17, 33. By the sixth arti.
cle of the preliminary articles, and the seventh article of the
definitive treaty, it was agieed betw een France and Great Britain,
"that, for the future, the confines between the dominions of his
Britannic Majesty and those of his Iost Christian Majesty, in
that part of the world, shall be fixed irrevocably, by a line drawn
VOL. xii.

5

50

SUPREME COURT.
Montault etaL v.

The United States.

along the middle of the Mississippi, from its source to the River
Iberville, and from thence, by a line drawn along the middle of
this river and the Lakes Maurepas and Pontehartrain,to the sea;
and for this purpose the Most Christian King cedes in full right,
and guarantees to his Britannic Majesty, the river and portof
Mobile, and every thing which he possesses, or ought to possess,
on the left side of the River Mississippi, with the exception of
the town of New Orleans, and of the island in which it is situated, which shall remain to France. Translation in 2 White's
Recop. 291.
By the twentieth article of the definitive treaty, Spain ceded
Florida to Great Britain, "as well as all that Spain possesses,
on the Continent of North America, to the east or the southeast
of the River Mississippi." The authorities to sustain the proposition are, United States v. Reynes, 9 How. 127; Police Jury
of Concordia v. Davis, Id. 280.
2. That the description of the lands, alleged in the petition
to have been granted, is so vague, indefinite, and uncertain, that
they could not be identified, and the alleged grant is therefore
void. United States v. Miranda, 16 Pet. 156; 15 Pet. 184, 215,
275, 319 ; 1') Pet. 331 ; 3 How. 787 ; 5 How. 26 ; and the case
of United States v. Villalobos, decided the present term.
3. That the petitioners should have made other persons, claim.
ing the lands, or any portion of them, under a different title, or
holding possession otherwise than underthem, parties to this suit.
The court is respectfully referred to the argument, on this
point, on behalf of the United States, in the case against Bois.
dore's heira, at the present term. The district judge in Louisiana,
held that it was necessary to make such parties, and the district judge of Mississippi, that it was not necessary.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appeal in this case was taken from the decision of the
District Court for the Southern District of Alabama.
The appellants filed a petition in that court to establish their
title to a tract of land situated south of the 31st degree of north
latitude, and between the Rivers Mississippi and Perdido, in the
State of Alabama, the boundaries of which are set out in the
petition. They state that the land in question was granted to*
the Chevalier Montault de Monterault on the 11th of March,
1763, by Louis Kerlerac, then Governor of the C61ony of Louisiana, and Louis Nicholas Faucault, performing the functions of
commissary ordonnateur, both of them holding their appointments
under the King of France, and the petitioners claim title as the
descendants and legal heirs of the grantor.
The only question which arises on this record is upon the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
The Farmers'

51

Bank of Virginia v. Groves.

validity of this grant It is objected to on account of the vagueness and unceriainty of the boundaries as set forth in the petition. But it is not necessary to express our opinion upon this
point, because the other objection taken on behalf of the"United
States is conclusive, and it is very clear that the French authorities had no right to make this grant, and that it conveyed no
title to the ancestor of the petitioners. For the definitive treaty
of peace between Great Britain, France, and Spain, by which the
territory in which this land is situated was ceded to Great Britain, was signed on the 10th of February, 1763, and consequently
the Frei ch authorities could not, after that day, grant a title to
lands lying in the ceded territory. This point was decided in the
cases of the United States v. leynes, 9 How. 127; The Police
Jury of Concordia v. Davis, 9 How. 280; and the United States
v. Dauterive, 10 How. 609. And as the grant in question was
not made until the 11th of March next following the date of the
treaty, it was at that time the exercise of a power by the French
authorities which they no longer possessed, and could convey no
title to the grantee.
The decree of the District Court dismissing the petition was
therefore correct, and must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be beard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed.

THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE FARMERS'
BANK OF VIRGINIA, APPELLANTS, v. HORACE H. GROVES,
AD INISTRATOR OF MOSES GROVES, DECEASED.
The principles of law decided in this case are so dependent upon the facts that a succinct statement of the latter becomes necessary.
Collier was in possession of two drafts drawn by King upon Groves and accepted by
him for the accoanodation of King. Collier pledged these drafts to the Farmers?
Bank of Virginia, as collateral security for a debt which he owed the bank.
The drafts not being paid at maturity, the bank sued both Groves and King, and
recovered judgments against them, which were liens upon their property.
Collier and King then agreed, that if Collier were to purchase King's property at a
certain sum, he would return his drafts to him and free him from the bank. To
this agreement Groves was a witness, and the purchase was accordingly made.
Collier and the bank then agreed that the bank should give him time and he should

