126

SUPREME

COURT.

Dorsey v. Packwood.

reasons of the Court of Appeals covered both cases, and they
were argued in this court together by the same counsel.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opiniol of the court.
This case involves the same principles as the case of Wil.liams, permanent Trustee of James Williams, already decided;
and we refer to the opinion there delivered for our decision in
this case.
The case is dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on- the transcript of the record from the Court of Appeals of the State of Maryland for
the Western Shore, and was argued by counsel.- On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the
want of jurisdiction.

GREENBERRY DoRSEY, COMPLAINANT AND
UEL PACKWOOD.

APPELLANT, V. SAMX-

An agreement, whereby the purchaser of a plantation "bound himself to transfer to
his son-in-law one half of the plantation, slaves, cattle, and stock, as soon as the
son-in-law should pay for one half of the cost of said property, either with his
own private means, or with one half of the profits of the plantation," was deficient
in mutuality.
son-in-law
money.
It wasThe
a nude
pat. was not bound to render any services nor pay any

rt was not an alternative obligation upon the

son-in-law, Because the election to pay

his
half out of the profits would ave been merely paying with another mants
money.
Even if the agreement possessed mutuaity, there was no performance, or offer of
performance by the son-in-law for twventy-seven years.
Moreover, fifteen years after the agreement, when the plantation was likely to prove
a ruinous purchase, the son-in-law abandoned and released all his claim.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The leading facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the
court, to which the reader is referred.
Upon the hearing in the Circuit Court, the bill was dismissed,
and Dorsey appealed to this court.
It was argued by Mr.Hendersor for the appellant, and 11r.
Butler for the appellee.
M7Jr. Henderson, for the appellant, filed an elaborate argument,

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

127

Dorsey v. Backwood.

consisting of upwards of one hundred pages, in which he
examined the grounds upon which Dorsey's claim was resisted.
He said, our claim is chiefly resisted on three grounds.
1. That the agreement is void for want of valuable cause or
consideration.
2. If ever valid, the right has been abandoned by complainant.
3. If ever valid, the right bas been legally released by complainant.
Other objections are interposed to our recovery by the defendant, and some of them as if they separately constituted distinct
bars to our suit; but, on examination, it will be seen that,
beside the three grounds of defence above specified, among the
other objections, one only has any plausible claim of being
separately considered a bar to the action, viz., Dorsey's intervening bankruptcy. We think, however, this point of bankruptcy is easily answered, if we succeed in overcoming'the first
three objections.
We admit, too, that, to maintain our action, the agreement
of 16th April, 1821, must appear to have been made for a valuable consideration, and we must also overcome the defendant's
pleas of abandonment and release.
First, then, as to the consideration for said agreement. The
agreement being signed by both parties, binds each equally to
the terms, conditions, and stipulations imposed on each, and
confers the rights either has conceded to the other. We -admit
Dorsey's rights are more clearly expressed in this contract than
his duties; but it is plain enough that Dorsey accepts the obligation Packwood has incurred, to convey to him, on the terms
expressed, one half of the property mentioned. And it is as
plain in sense and meaning, though not as explicit in expression, that Dorsey does undertake to pay for one half the cost of
said property, in one of two ways, viz., either from'his "own private means, or with the one half of the profits of the plantation."
Under the first alternative, it is obvious he might have paid up
one half in advance of the payments due to Lafarge, though
the duty would have been fairly performed by meeting those
payments as they became due, or by paying up the half due
after the profits had paid part.
But the alternative in the agreement was at Dorsey's election,
1 Poth. Ob. p. 284, § 3; Old Code La. p. 276, art. 89, 90.
And it is the plain language of the contract, that Dorsey
might "pay for one half the cost of said property......
with the one half of the profits of the-plantation." The evidence
fully shows he elected this alternative, and the question now is,

128

SUPREME COURT.
Dorsey v. Packwood.

how might he thus pay for one half? He could only do this
by aiding to produce results and profits from the plantation, and
by husbanding and appropriating their proceeds to this end.
To do this was the consideration, the necessary consideration,
pledged and promised, as resulting from this alternative of the
agreement. Hence the consideration, we insist, appears on the
face of the agreement. In the first alternative, to pay one half
in money; in the second, in such services as would make the
plantation pay one half from half its profits. And his rights,
duty, and services, under this second alternative of the agree.
ment, go hand in hand.
And there can be no doubt that, under any exigency which
might have arisen, Dorsey could have been obliged by the courts
to perform his part of the agreement, or to account in damages,
or to have his contract cancelled. Just as certainly so as in. any
other case of contract for personal services.
But suppose it were the meaning of this agreement, as defendant's counsel has argued, that Dorsey might at any time
have discharged himself from its obligations, by forfeiting all he
had done or paid toward it; yet it is valid in this aspect as a
lawful agreement as in any other;, and most conclusively is,
after it has been. fully executed by Dorsey. 13 La. Rep. 249;
10 Rob. R. 369, 370; Code La. 1920, 1921; 11 Mart. 221; 4
N. S. 266; Jer. Eq. 435; 1 Madox, 376,377; 1 Edwards, Ch. R.
1 to 7.
A consideration, then, is apparent on the face of the agreement, upon a fair interpretation of its terms by the court; and
the evidence fully shows that the parties, too, have given it this
construction, and the manner in which they have understood
and executed it, shall bind them. On this rule, that the practical construction of a contract by the parties shall govern, see
Old Code La. p. 270, art. 56 to 64; New Code of 1825, art.
1051; 3 Rob. R. 187, 188; 10 Rob. 369, 370; 12 Rob. 170;
Story's Eq. § 168; 3 Story's R. 263, 264, 269, 270,271, 282, 285.
But, by the local law of Louisiana, not only is it unnecessary
the consideration should appear in a written agreement, but in
its absence a consideration is presumed. 12 Rob. R. 329; 5
La. 78.
Assuming, however, that the burden of proof is on Dorsey, to
distinctly show consideration, yet, by the laws of Lousiana, the
rule is clear, we may show consideration for the contract by
parol. Old Code La. p. 264, art. 31, 32; Code of 1825, art.
1757, 1887, 1888 1890, 1894, 1897.
1 Same rule, 1 Greenl. § 215. And acts done in execution of
a contract nizy be proven by parol. 13 La. R. 264.
That we rendered the services on which we rely to show con-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

129

Dorsey v. Packwood.

sideration, is abundantly confessed by the defendant in his
answer, though he assumes those services were gratuitous.
[The counsel then went into a minute examination of the
answer and evidence, to show that Dorsey was expected to render, and did render, financial and other services of a personal
nature in the concern and business of the plantation.]
With respect to the second proposition, viz., that Dorsey
abandoned the concern by advising Packwood to sell and get
out of the scrape, the counsel contended that the subsequent
correspondence and transactions of Packwood showed that he
did not so construe the letter at the time, but that such construction was an after-thought.
With respect to the third proposition, viz., the release, the
counsel contended that it was given to Theodore, the son of
Packwood, out of friendly feelings to him, and to promote his
interest; _and that as it affected the father, it was merely donative and void, because not an authentic act, and not accepted
by Packwood.
At the date of this paper, Dorsey's rights under the agreement of 1821, had, according to complainant's calculation, become equitably consummate and complete. If the cost of the
plantation had then been paid for from its profits, the condition
of his purchase was accomplished. 13 La. 261; 1 Domat, p. 71,
§ 2, and p. 48, § 8.
In such aspect the right had become an equitable title - an
inf6rmal title to property. 3 Mfart. N. S. 337; 2 La. Rep. 460,
461; 3 La. 397; 13 La. 261.
From this time at least, if not from the beginning, Packwood held the title in trust, as to one half, for Dorsey. 1 Sch.
and Lef. 214, 226, 227; 7 Mart. Rep. 244; 10 La. 420.
And courts of the United States uniformly distinguish legal
from equitable titles in Louisiana, as elsewhere. 3 How. 512,
514, 515. It is especially so of a trust which results from fraud.
2 How. 650; 10 La. 420.
The contract to sell on a suspensive condition, when the condition is performed, becomes equivalent to a contract to sell
without a condition. And the latter contract, in Louisiana, is
a sale. Old Code, p. 346, art. 4, 9.
At common law, a release is known as a designated instrument of conveyance of a right in land; a deed, tran~missive
of title. 2 Black. Com. 324. It is also used at common law
for remitting and discharging personal obligations. Used for
either object it must be a deed, under seal, the seal importing a consideration, conclusive at law, except for fraud. If not
under seal, though upon valuable consideration, it fails as an
instrument to convey title to land. But if without seal, and

180

SUPREME
Dorsey v.

COURT.

rackwood.

without consideration in fact, it is void, and no proof of purpose
or intention can sustain it.
In the civil law system, the release is utterly unknown as a
technical instrument of conveying or relinquishing a right or
title in land. In this system, its more accurate name is remis.
.sion; and its functions are exclusively limited to the remission
of debts and personal obligations. C. C. arts; 2195, 2202.
Limited to these objects, it is regarded as the act of simple
donation, and governed by the laws and rules of donation. 1
Poth. Ob. p. 310, 312.
The office of release and remission in the civil law does not
even extend to the discharging of accounts between parties.
Such acts are denominated "transactions," (C. C. art. 3038,
3050,) though governed'by much the same rules as a release in
like case at common law; inasmuch as renunciation thereby made,
extends only to rights and claims actually settled. And as conclusive proof, that the doctrine of release and remission applies
only to debts and personal obligations, the Civil Code requires
"an act shall be passea before a notary-public and two witnesses
of every dor ation i2ter vivos of immovable property, of slaves or
incorporate things, such as rents, credits, rights, or actions, under
the penalty of nullity." Art. 1523, 1525. A donation inter
vivos, even of movable effects, will not be valid unless an act
be passed of the same, as is before prescribed. Such an act
ought to contain a detailed estimate of the effects given."
It being seen, then, that a release, in the civil law, is but a
donation, it is obvious that if it applied to lands, slaves, and
goods, which it does not, still, a donation of lands, slaves, or
goods, or rents, must be executed before a notary, etc., or it is
void. Hence, this instrument is null and void under the local
law. And this is also shown by the manuscript record in this
case (p. 340, 342) of Packwood v. Heirs of Alice Packwnood, and
the decisions of the Court there pronounced and decided; also,
(9 Rob. R. 416,) that the right acquired to vest estate by an accepted bid at auction, is such a title as the purchaser could not
relinquish by parol agreement, but a retrocession in writing
must be made. Art. 2415, 2586. And Dorsey's rights, vested
by agreement of 1821, could not require less than a like retrocession, -with cause and description of property relinquished.
But though a release is not a designated instrument of conveyance at the civil law, we do not pretend but that an instrument resembling it in form of expression may be a conveyance
under private signature, as per C. C. art. 2415.
In such case, however, it must.have all the essentials of a sale,
viz.: it must be for a price. C.C. art. 2414,2439. And this price
must be stipulated on agreement. Art. 1792, 1794, 2431, 2439.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

131

Dorsey v. Packwood.

And such sale implies that the vendor, and not the vendee, was
the owner. Art. 2418.
Now, the reverse of all these qualifications to a sale are either
proved, or averred and admited by the defendant in this case.
As to ownership, for instance, defendant claims to have been
sole owner since 18th January 1825. Ans. p. 58.
Of the legal title, as distinguished in equity, this is literally
true, as he has held this from date of purchase in 1821. Bidt
defendant means the relinquishment of Dorsey's equitable contingent interest. Otcupying such grounds, he cannot say the
paper of 1836 was a sale. This paper has, therefore, no civillaw basis for validity, but is null per se. And viewed as a release, at common law and in equity, it is clearly null and void
for want of a seal, or at all events for want of a consideration
which a seal at common law implied. 13 Johns. R. 87; 7 Id.
169; 1 Cow. 122; 5 Watts & Serg. 486; 0. C. art. 1887;
21 Picl. R. 101. 2 Sumn. R. 11 ; 8 How. 158, 159.
And a release, like a receipt, is only held valid for the causes
and matters computed on at the time. 1 Ed. Ch. R.38, 39,
and cases cited; 8 How. 158; 13 Conn. R. 136; 7 Watts &
Serg. 317. In this it precisely resembles the "transaction," or
compromise of the civil law. C. C. art. 3040, 3048.
And a release must be just, equitable, and meritorious, or it is
held for naught, and especially in matters of trust. 1 Sch. &
Lef. 226; 16 Pet. 3. 276- 279; 4 How. R. 561, and the case of
Kennedy's Heirs v. Collins, manuscript decision, Sup. Ct. U. S.,
Dec. Term, 1850, 10 How. 174. Release explained, put on its
merits, and annulled. 3 Story's R. 268, 269.
Upon all the preceding authorities, it is obvious that this pretended release is utterly null - shadow, without substance.
It i null, also, upon the pleadings. The bill attacks this
release for the directly imputed reason, that it is destitute of all
consideration. The answer (as in the place of a. plea) does not
deny this, but avers the paper is a release, notwithstanding this
defect.
Such form of defence is held for naught, and no proof could
remedy it. The plea, in such case, must aver and set forth what
if. Pl.
the consideration was. St6ry's Eq. P1. § 796, 797;
261 -263, 322-324.
31r.Butler, foarthe appellee, made the following points amongst
others which are omitted, (because the decision of the court did
not turn upon them.)
II. The bill does not allege any substantial act of part performance by complainant, nor does it contain any offir to pay the
one half of the cost of the property. Upon such a bill, specific

SUPREME

COURT.

Dorsey v. Fackwood.

performance of the agreement of April 16, 1821, would not have
been decreed, even had the bill been filed before 1825.
First. Packwood promises to transfer to Dorsey for a certain
price to be paid by him, the one half of the plantation, &c. Such
a promise, by the law of Louisiana, is a sale; and to entitle the
vendee to a specific performance, he must show that he has paid,
or must offer to pay, the stipulated price. Old Civil Code of
Louisiana, in force in 1821; 346, at. 9; Louisiana New Civil
Code, art. 2437; Code Napoleon, art. 1589.
Secondly. So far as the agreement provides for the payment
of the price by the one half the profits, or promises to account
therefor, it creates, not a joint interest or partnership, as assumed
in the bill, but an informal and void donation.
1. It is not a contract of partnership, because Dorsey does not
bind himself to put any thing into it. Old Civil Code, 388,
art. 3; New Civil Code of La. art. 1757; Domat, Liv. 1, tit. 8,
§ 2, art. 12; Pothier, TraitM du Contrat de SociWt6, ch. 1, §3, art. 8;
Story on Partnership, § 8, 15.
2. It is a donation, because nothing is given or promised by
Dorsey; and as such it is void, because not in the form required
by the law of Louisiana. Old Civil Code of Louisiana, p. 208,
arts. 1, 2, pp. 218, 219; arts. 43, 52; pp. 220, 221 ; arts. 53, 65.
Thirdly. The agreement was without consideration or mutuality; and Courts of Equity will not decree specific performance
of such argreements.
1. The agreement on the part of Packwood, was wholly gratuitous. Such agreements, if actually executed, and if otherwise unobjectionable, will be sustained; but if, as in the present
case, merely executory, they will not be enforced. 2 Story's Eq.
Jur. § 787, 793, a; Wycherley v. Wycherly, 2 Eden's R. 177;
Colman v. Sarrell, 1 Ves. Jun. 54; Ellison v. Ellison, 6 Ves. 662;
Bunn v. Winthrop, 1 Johns, Ch. R. 329, 336, 337; Minturn v.
Seymour, 4 Johns. Ch. R. 497; Acker v. Phacnix, 4 Paige, R. 305;
Black v. Cord, 2 Harr. & Gill, 100; Caldwell v. Williams,
1 Bailey's Eq. R. 175.
The modern cases, in which executory agareements, in favor
of children and other relatives, though voluntary, have been enforced, besides being, some of them, of questionable authority,
all proceed on the ground that such agreements being made for
the benefit of persons for whom the party was bound to provide,
are founded on a consideration, meritorious, though' not on a
valuable, and are, therefore, inapplicable to the present case.
Story's Eq. Jur. §793, b; White's Lead. Cas. in Eq. 49 Law Lib.
167,193, Eng. ed., 192,213, Am. ed.; Id. for Am. Cas. pp. 213,220.
2. The agreement, as interpreted by the allegations and claims
of the bill, is wholly without mutuality, and, therefore, equity

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

133

Dorsey v. Packwood.

will not enforce it. 2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 742, 750, 769, 771, 77Q,
790, 793, 796; Arniger v. Clark, Bunbury's Rep. 111; Lawreison v. Butler, 1 Sch. and Lef. 13; Withy v. Cottle, 1 Sim.
& Stu. 174; Howell v. George, 1 Iadd. Ch. R. 12; Adderly
v. Dixon, 1 Sim. & Stu. 607; Martin v. Mitchell, 2 Jac. &
Walk. 413; Flight v. Bolland, 4 Russell's R. 298; Hamilton v.
Grant, 2 Dow's P. C. 33; Sugden's Law of Prop. (in House of
Lords,) 48 Law Lib. IN. S., 58 Eng. ed., 69 Am. ed.; Benedict
v. Lynch, 1 Johns. Ch. R. 373; German v. Machin, 6 Paige, 292,
and cases cited by Ch. Walworth; Woodward v. Harris, 2 Barbour's Sup. Ct. R. 442; Phillips v. Berger, Id. 610.
IIL The letter of complainant of the 18th of January, 1825,
and his subsequent correspondence- and acts amount to a full
waiver and abandonment of all rights and claims of every nature
and description under the agreement. As to the effect of waiver
and abandonment in cases of specific performance, see 2 Story's
Eq. Jur. § 770, 771, 776, and cases there cited. See also cases
cited post, point 7.
V. If the complainant, under the agreement of 1821, had any
rights in the plantation, &c., they were all released by the instrument of the 28th of January, 1836.
1. Such an instrument, by the law of Louisiana, is valid and
effectual as a remission or release, though without consideration, and not under seal. Civil Code of Louisiana, arts. 2,126,
2,195 to 2,202,3,061, and particularly art. 2,197. French-" La
reemise d'une dette," &c.; English-" The release or remission
of a debt," &c. Id. arts. 812 to 816. In each art. French" la remise"; English-" the release." 4 Favard de Langlade,
831,-word "renzise." Word "rem ise," in Pothier on Obligations, as translated by Evans and Martin.
2. Such conventional releases are favored by the civil law.
Bardet, tom. i. liv. 3, ch. 24, arret dit 8 Feb. 1629; Moulton v.
Noble, 1 Ann. Rep. of La. 192, and authorities there cited by
Eustis, Ch. J. Bourgoin v. Bourgoin, Sirey, 1814, 1st part, p. 85;
10 Duranton, 321, Paris ed. of 1844, No. 339; Ardouin v. Ardent,
in Court of Cassation, 2d April, 1823, Sirey, 1823, 1st part p.
238, 2d part p. 113, quoted and approved in 4 Favard de Langlade; p. 821, 17 Ledru Rollin, 1006, 10 Dalloz, 612.
3. Such a release is valid, though the contract it was intended
to release remain in the hands of the obligee or of a third person. Authorities above cited under this point; 12 Duranton
441, Paris ed. of 1844, No. 360. VII. Complainant's claim is wholly barred by prescription
and lapse of time.
1. The respondent having acquired the plantation, &c., in good
faith and by a just title, and the complainant being a resident
VOL. XII.

12

134

SUPREME COURT.
Dorsey v.

Packwood.

of Louisiana, his claim was barred by the prescription of ten
years, provided by the law of that State. Civil Code of Louisiana, arts. 3,442 to 3,464,3,494 to 3,498,3,508 to 3,511 ; 2 Story's
Eq. Jur. § 1,520 and note 3.
2. Independently of positive prescription, the general doctrines
of the Courts of Equity-forbid, after such laches, such lapse of
time, and such changes in the property as have occurred in this
case, the granting to the complainant of any part of the relief
sought by him. 2 Story's Eq. Jur. § 723, and sections cited ufider
point 2; Id. § 1520, note 3; Smith v. Clay, 3 Brown's Ch. R.
639 n.; Hovenden v. Annesly, 2 Sch. & Lef. R. 636; Brashier
v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 528; Piatt v. Vattier, 9 Pet. 405, 416; Taylor v. Longworth, 14 Pet. 174; McKnight v. Taylor, 1 How. S.
C. R. 167; Wagner v. Baird, 7 Id. 235; Maxwell v. Kennedy,
8 Id. 221.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The record of this case covers 840 pages; and the abstracts
and briefs of counsel, nearly three hundred. But as the merits of
the case, when extricated from the mass of matter with which
it is enveloped, depend on the application of undisputed principles and axioms of the law, to a few leading facts, it will not be
necessary that our stLtement of it should be proportionally voluminous.
Dorsey, the complainant and appellant, filed his bill in the
Ci muit Court of Louisiana in March, 1848, claiming the specific
execution of a contract in writing, executed on the 16th of April,
1821, which is as follows:
"Samuel Packwood, now in the city of New Orleans, having
lately purchased the plantation heretofore belonging, to John La
Farge, situated below town on the right bank of the river, about
eleven leagues, binds himself, his heirs and executors, to transfer
unto G. Dorsey, his heirs and executors, one half of the plantation above mentioned, also one half of the slaves, cattle, and
stock, farming utensils, &c., &c., as soon as said G. Dorsey shall
pay for one half of the cost of said property, either -with his own
private means, or with one half of the profits of the plantation;
but it is agreed upon and well understood by said G. Dorsey, that
Samuel Packwood, until said transfer is made, has the right and
privilege of selling and disposing and transferring of said plantation to any person or persons that he ma , think proper to sell
to, without consulting or asking the consent of said G. Dorsey,
and the consent of said G. Dorsey shall not be necessary To
make the sale good; and it is further agreed upon, that Samuel
Packwood is to have the entire and complete control of said
plantation, and every thing that appertains to it, until said trans-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

135

Dorsey v. Packwood.

fer is made to G. Dorsey; but if said Packwood should sell at any
time previous to said transfer to G. Dorsey, he shall be answerable for and shall account to said G. Dorsey for one half of the
net profits of said sale."
At the time this paper was executed, Packwood resided in
New York, but was owner of valuable property in New Orleans,
from which'he derived his principal income. Dorsey was his
son-in-law, and a member of the mercantile firm of Morgan,
D6rsey & Co. This firm was in good credit, and acted as the
financial agent of Packwood, lending him their acceptances, and
advancing money for him, to enable him to complete his purchases, up to the time of their failure and bankruptcy in 1825.
At this time the firm was largely in advance to Packwood; but
the balance due was afterwards paid by him, with interest.
Dorsey had been chiefly instrumental in persuading Packwood
to make this purchase, and owing to his expectation of a share
in the speculation in case it should turn out to be profitable, the
commissions charged for these financial accommodations were
probably not so great as they otherwise might have been, and
for the same reasons, also, Dorsey took an interest in the management of the plantation, made additional purchases, gave advice and superintendence, without at first making such additional charges as might have been made for similar services
rendered to a stranger.
When this purchase was made, the parties seem to have expected that after the first payment of $25,000 was made by
£Fackwood, the profits of the plantation might in a great measure be depended on, to liquidate the balance of its cost. But
they were greatly deceived in this expectation. For many years
the crops did not equal the expenses; so that, at the time of the
failure of the firm of Morgan, Dorsey & Co., in 1825, Packwood
was in debt for the plantation and the additional purchases of
land and negroes, a sum exceeding one hundred and fifty thou-'
sand dollars, ($150,000.) Dorsey had paid nothing, and was
then unable to pay any thing. The speculation seeming likely
to turn out disastrous, he ceased to expect any advantage from
it, or claim any interest in it, and accordingly, he advised Packwood to sell the greater part, if not all of it, "with the hope
that he (Packwood) might get out of the scrape in four or five
years." Indeed for some years after this it appeared doubtful
whether Packwood would be able to extricate himself from his
pecuniary embarrassments consequent on tis purchase. He
finally succeeded, however, after a further sruggle of some
twelve or fifteen years, by sales of his other property and the
profits of the plantation, to rescue himself from impending ruin,
and pay the debts in which he had been involved. During all

SUPREME COURT.
Dorsey v. Packwood.

this time, Dorsey was unable to help Packwood out of his difficulties, and ceasing to consider his expectations from Packwood's contract with him to be of any value, and as it might be
considered a cloud upon the title, at thfe request of Packwood
he volujitarily executed and sent to him the following release,
witnessed by his wife: 11lThis is to certify, that I hereby abandon and release unto
Mr. Samuel Packwood, any claim I have or might have to any
interest in or to his plantation, in the parish of Plaquemines,
or profits of the same, by virtue of any written document he may
have given, or verbal promises made upon the subject."
New Orleans, 28th January, 1836.
G. DoRs EY.
Witness: E. H. Dorsey.
From this time till 1838, Dorsey had the agency of the plant.
ation under a power of attorney from Packwood. In that year
Packwood cancelled his power of attorney, and appointed another
agent, alleging that Dorsey had misused his power by indorsing
his principal's name to sustain his private credit. This was the
beginning of a coldness between the parties, which, after the refusal of Packwood to incur liabilities for Dorsey in 1840, and
after the death of Mrs. Alice Packwood, the mother of Mrs.
Dorsey, and the marriage of Packwood to a second wife, became a bitter family quarrel, followed by much litigation be.
tween the present parties. The nature and result of these suits,
it is not necessary, for thepurposes of the present case, to specify.
Suffice to say, that Dorsey now revived his claim to a share in
the Mlyrtle Grove property, on the ground that his half of the
purchase-money had been paid by the rents and profits of the
estate, and finally instituted this suit in Mlarch, 1848.
In the original bill, the omplainant founds his title to relief
on an alleged lost agreement, dated ofl the 12th of April,
1823. But after the production by the respondent, of this
instrument, dated 16th of April, 1821, he amended his bill,
and made his claim under it. The respondent, in his answer, denies the existence of any other agreement either written or parol, and there is no proof to show the existence of
either. The right of the complainant to relief will therefore depend on this instrument of writing, in connection with the facts,
a brief outliie of which we have endeavored to give, so far as
we'think them material to the decision of the oause.
There is no allegation in the bill, or pgoof, that any clause
was omitted from this instrument, either ti ough mistake or inadvertence. It is signed by both parties in presence of attesting witnesses; and is expressed in clear and precise terms. But
there is one characteristic necessary to give it validity as a binding contract, in which it is entirely deficient. It wants mutuality.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

187

Dorsey v. Packwood.

It imposes no obligation on Dorsey whatever. He is not bound
either to tender services or pay money as a consideration for one
Packwood could not support a suit upon
half the land.
it to compel Dorsey to do any thing. It is not an alternative
obligation, because Dorsey is not bound to perform either alternative. The allegation that "Dorsey elected the alternatiye of
paying for the land out of the profits," (or, in other woxds,\vith
Packwood's money,) amounts only to this: That he was willing
to accept one half of the plantation as a gift, but would pay no
part of the purchase-money out of his own pocket. Nor is there
any evidence, that Dorsey ever notified Packwood of his election to do any thing. On the contrary, in January, 1825, before
the failure of the firm of Morgan, Dorsey & Co., when the speculation appeared likely to be a ruinous one, he elects to have
Paekwood "get out of the scrape," the best way he could, and
his release, given in 1836, shows his electioh to claim no interest
in the property whatever. But even assuming that Dorsey
was bound by this contract, it cannot come within the category
of alternative obligations, where one of the alternatives was to
pay with Packwood's money, and give nothing of-his own.
"An obligation," says Pothier, "is not alternative, where one
of the things is not susceptible of the obligation intended to be
contracted; but in this case the obligation is a determinate obligation of the other. Therefore it was decided, in 1. 72, § 4,
ff. de sol, that if a person promised me in the alternative two
things, whereof one belonged to me already, that he had not
the liberty of paying that in lieu of the other-not even although
it might afterwards cease to belong to me; because this not
being, at the time of the contract, susceptible of the obligation
contracted in my favor, the other only was due; cum re suna ne2no deberi possit." Evans's Pothier, Part 2d., C. 3, Art. 6, No.
249. Assuming the obligation to be mutual, Dorsey was bound
to "pay with his own private meafns one half of the cost" of the
property, or offer to do it within a reasonable time, before he
could claim the interference of a court of equity to enforce a specific execution of this contract. Equity will not decree the
specific execution of mere nude pacts, or voluntary agreements
not founded on some valuable or meritorious consideration. The
same ruledis applied to imperfect gifts, inter vivos, to imperfect
voluntary assignments of debts or other property, to voluntary
executive trusts, and to voluntary defective conveyances.
When the obligation is mutual, the party asking a specific
performance must show that he has been in no default in not
having performed the agreement on his part, and that he has
taken all proper steps towards the performance. He must show
himself desirous, prompt and cager to perform the contract If

SUPREME COURT.
Dorsey v. Packwood.

he has been guilty of gross laches, .or if he applies for relief after
a long lapse of time, unexplained by equitable circumstances,
his bill will be dismissed.
It is clear, then, from this statement of the facts and law as
they affect this case, that the complainant has not shown a case
which will entitle him to a decree in his favor.
For 1st. If he was bound at all, he has shown no performance,
or offer of performance, after an interval of twenty-seven years.
2dly. The agreement by Packwood to convey one half of the
land purchased and paid for by himself, in consideration of a
payment "from the profits of the plantation," which equally
belonged to himself, was but the promise of a gift, a nude pact
which equity will not enforce.
dly. The release of the complainant in 1836, fifteen years
after the agreement, when he bad paid nothing for the land,
either out of his own pocket, or even "by the profits of the plantation," (if such could be called a payment) was a voluntary
abandonment of all claim under it. Whether, if he had paid one
half the purchase-money, and had a good equitable title to the
land, a release without a consideration would operate as an
equitable bar to his claim, we need not inquire. But as cumulative evidence of a total abandonment of all claim under an
executory agreement of which he had performed no part, it furnishes an additional reason for refusing him a decree, to which
he would not be entitled, even if such release had never been
given.
The decree of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with
costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argaed by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

