DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
The Farmers'

51

Bank of Virginia v. Groves.

validity of this grant It is objected to on account of the vagueness and unceriainty of the boundaries as set forth in the petition. But it is not necessary to express our opinion upon this
point, because the other objection taken on behalf of the"United
States is conclusive, and it is very clear that the French authorities had no right to make this grant, and that it conveyed no
title to the ancestor of the petitioners. For the definitive treaty
of peace between Great Britain, France, and Spain, by which the
territory in which this land is situated was ceded to Great Britain, was signed on the 10th of February, 1763, and consequently
the Frei ch authorities could not, after that day, grant a title to
lands lying in the ceded territory. This point was decided in the
cases of the United States v. leynes, 9 How. 127; The Police
Jury of Concordia v. Davis, 9 How. 280; and the United States
v. Dauterive, 10 How. 609. And as the grant in question was
not made until the 11th of March next following the date of the
treaty, it was at that time the exercise of a power by the French
authorities which they no longer possessed, and could convey no
title to the grantee.
The decree of the District Court dismissing the petition was
therefore correct, and must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be beard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Southern
District of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed.

THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS, AND COMPANY OF THE FARMERS'
BANK OF VIRGINIA, APPELLANTS, v. HORACE H. GROVES,
AD INISTRATOR OF MOSES GROVES, DECEASED.
The principles of law decided in this case are so dependent upon the facts that a succinct statement of the latter becomes necessary.
Collier was in possession of two drafts drawn by King upon Groves and accepted by
him for the accoanodation of King. Collier pledged these drafts to the Farmers?
Bank of Virginia, as collateral security for a debt which he owed the bank.
The drafts not being paid at maturity, the bank sued both Groves and King, and
recovered judgments against them, which were liens upon their property.
Collier and King then agreed, that if Collier were to purchase King's property at a
certain sum, he would return his drafts to him and free him from the bank. To
this agreement Groves was a witness, and the purchase was accordingly made.
Collier and the bank then agreed that the bank should give him time and he should

52

SUPREME

COURT.

The Farmers' Bank of Virginia v. Groves.
give additional collateral security to the bank and mortgage his property; first
reducing the liens of prior mortgages down to a certain sum. The bank was moreover to surrender the collateral securities previously received. The mortgage was
made by Collier and the collateral securities surrendered to him by the bank.
After this, the bank had no right to prosecute the judgment which it had obtained
against Groves.
By the first agreement made between King and Collier, to which Groves was privy,
Collier exonerated Groves, as far as it was in his power; and in 6ousequence of the
second agreement between Collier and the bank, Collier became re-invested with the
whole control of the matter and his previous exoneration of Groves became immediately operative. Groves was, therefore, entirely discharged from all responsibility.
The failure of Collier to comply with his contract with the bank, did not prevent this
exoneration of Groves from being effectual.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District Qf Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity.
The facts in the case are set forth in the opinion of the court,
to which the reader is referred.
It was argued by .Mr.M'Farland for the appellants, and MAIr.
Johnson, for the appellee.
The grounds upon which a reversal of the decree was claimed,
were the following:
It ought to be remarked, in the first place, that the only contract to which the bank admits itself to have been a party, after
the rendition of their judgment against Groves, was a new mortgage given by Collier to Pegram,their agent, about the month
of December, 1841, and of that contract there is no copy in the
record, and it was not in evidence in the court below. Now, it
is in reference to that contract that the bank, while admitting that
it was understood at first, that the collateral security was to be surrendered to Collier, yet, he neither paid the notes secured by the
new mortgage, nor did he insist on the surrender of the collaterals,
but expressly waived the assignment of the judgment and consented that it should stand as additional security for Collier's debt,
inasmuch as it turned out that the property was subject to heavy
previous incumbrances. Is there any thing in the record in reference to that contract from which this ceurt can infer an intention
on the part of the bank to operate a novation unconditionally of
the judgment against Groves, which is not even alleged in-the
bill, and to substitute in its place a new mortgage on the property of Collier, and his promissory notes? Such a security will
be regarded by the law of Louisiana, where the contract was
entered into, as cumulative, unless the previou debt was released
in express terms. It is of the essence of a novation that the first
debt be extinguished, and a new one substituted in its place; a
novation is never presumed. See Louisiana Code, art. 2181,
et seq.; 2d Annu'l Reports, 188; Parker v. Alexander.
It is an ominous circumstance in reference to this new con-

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

53

The Farmers' Bank of Virginia v. Groves.

tract or mortgage, that it was not produced in evidence by the
party claiming the benefit of its stipulations. If it had contained an absolute release of the judgmnent against Groves, the
sagacious and able counsel of the estate would not have failed
to introduce it in support of the allegations in their bill. As it
was in their power and was withheld, we have a right to infer
that its production dould have made against them.
But there is another view of this matter which, it appears, was
absolutely insuperable.
Moses Groves was not a party to the new contract in 1841,
and he now seeks to avail himself of a stipulation in his favor
contained in it. This is what, in the technical language of the
civil law, is called a stipulation.pour autrui, or a stipulation in
favor of a third person. The doctrine is well settled, that
third persons may accept such stipulation in their favor, and enforce them either by action or exception. But before such
acceptance and its notification to the parties, it may be retracted
and desisted from, and the third person has no right to complain. Now in this case, it appears that Collier waived the release of the collateral security previously given, and agreed.that
the new mortgage should stand as additional security for the
debt due to the bank, long before Groves sought to rely upon it
as a discharge of the judgment against him.
See Flower v. Lane et al. 6 Martin, N. S. 152; Pemberton v. Zacharie et aL 5 La. R. 316; Mayor et al. v.
Bailey, 5 Martin, 322; Marigny v. Remy, 3 Martin, N. S.
607.
We come now to examine the contract between Collier and
King, on which the complainants rely in their bill as evidence of
a discharge or payment of the judgment against Groves. It is
remarkable that neither the bank nor Moses Groves was a
Collier did not even assume to
party to that agreement.
act as the agent of the bank, much less is there any proof that
he was so, or ihat his agreement with King was ever known to
the bank. The whole purport of that agreement was, that
Collier was to be permitted to purchase certain property of
King's at sheriff's sale, at a certain price, and if he did so, Collier would grant full acquittance of certain debts, and particularly to Moses Groves, a full acquittance of all demands against
said Groves, for and on Lccount of said judgment obtained by
the Farmers' Bank of Virginia.
The property which Collier was authorized to purchase on
these conditions, is enumerated in the contract, consisting of
sundry tracts of land, and a large number of slaves. Now, the
only evidence that he purchased any part of the property in
pursuance of the agreement, is found in a sheriff's deed, and a
5*

54

SUPREME COURT.
The Farmers' Bank of Virginia v. Groves.

imple comparison between the agreement and the sheriff's deed
willshow that a large part of the property of King never was
sold according to that agreement.
The condition, therefore,
upon which Collier was himself bound to procure a release of
the judgment in favor of the bank, has not been complied
with, and evein between him and King no such obligation has
iesulted from the sale, much less is there any thing in the whole
transaction which is binding on the bank. it was as to the bank,
res inter alios acta.
Theie is not the least pretext for saying, that the bank ever
Tatified and approved this agreement, or that they ever had any
knowledge of it.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes up on an appeal from a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Louisiana.
The case is somewhat complicated and confused, and it will
be necessary to state the material facts to be found in it in order
to present clearly the legal questions involved, and upon which
the decision must depend.
On the 13th Mfarch, 1837, Thompson L. King drew two drafts,
amounting, in the aggregate, to fifteen thousand four hundred
and ninety-seven dollars, in favor John E. Hunter, upon Moses
Groves, who duly accepted the same. The liability of Groves
upon these drafts to the bank constitutes the main point in the
controversy. The drafts were subsequently, but before maturity,
indorsed by Hunter to Lewis A. Collier, and by him passed to
the Farmers' Bank of Virginia, the appellants, as collateral security for an indebtedness to the Bank. Groves was an accommodation acceptor for the benefit of King, the drawer.
The bank recovered judgment against Groves for'the amount
of the draftz- in the Madison District Court of Louisiana,
December 1, 1840, and which was recorded in the office of the
parish judge on the same day, in the parish of Madison, where
,the defendant resided, so as to operate as a judicial mortgage on
his.real estate and slaves. The bank recovered judgment also
against King, the drawer, on one of the drafts; and, at the same
time, -held other judgments and demands against 'him, in which
Collier was interested, to the amount of some fifteen thousand dollars. These judgments and demands had been pledged
to the bank by Collier as collateral security for his indebtedness.
On the 26th February, 1841, awritten agreement was entered
into between Collier and King, in -which, after reciting the several judgments and demands above stated, and held by the bank
against King, and in which Collier was interested; and also

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

55

The Farmers' Bank of Virginia v. Groves.

reciting and describing certain plantations and lands, belonging
to the said King, containing in all about twenty-two- hundre"
acres, and a large number of slaves on the same, it was agreed,
among other things, that if the'said Collier should be permitted
to purchase the said property at sheriff's sale on any of the
aforementioned judgments for his own account, or for the
account of the bank, at a sum not exceeding the whole amount
of the several judgments and demands, or for a less sumi that
then, and in that case, the said property should be received by
him in satisfaction and discharge of the same; and the evidences
of the several debts and demands thus held by him and the bank
should be delivered up to the persons entitled to the same;
and full discharges given; and especially to Moses Groves for
and on account of the judgment obtained by the Farmers'
Bank of Virginia against him.
There are several other provisions and stipulations in said
agreement; but, as they have no necessary bearing ulion the
material questions in the case, it is unimportant to notice them.
Groves was a witness to this agreement.
In pursuance of this arrangement Collier became the purchaser of the property on the 13th of March, 1841, for the sum
of $32,515, and received a deed of the same from the sheriff on
the s;xteenth of the month thereafter.
On the 1st of December, 1841, the Farmers' Bank of Virginia
proposed to Collier, through their authorized agent, an arrangement of his indebtedness to them, as follows:
1. The bank to give him a credit on the same of one, two,and three years. 2. And surrender all the collateral securities
which they had received from him. And Collier, on his part,
1. To pay all the expenses of prosecuting the collateral securities
to the attorneys in whose hands they are. 2. To give . mortgage, which was to operate as a judicial mortgage in favor'of
the bank, on all the property which he held in Concordia parish.
3. To assign to the bank certain notes, as collateral security,
which he held against Dix & Glascock, amounting to $9000.
4. To have all the mortgages that'appear as incumbrances upon
the property reduced by a discharge of record t6 an amount not
exceeding thirty-five thousand dollars, besides those in favor of
the Bank of Virginia, and Lancaster, Denby, & Company. And
5. To give three notes to the bank, one for $11,764.68, payable
in twelve months after date, one for $12,470.67, payable two
years after date, and one for $13,218.80, payable three years
after date, amounting, in the aggregate, to thirty-seven thousand
four hundred and fifty-four dollars, five cents.
This is the substance of the proposition made by the agent,
and which was intended as instructions to F. H. Farrar, his

SUPREME

COURT.

The Farmers' Bank of Virginia v. Groves.

attorney, under whose direction the mortgage was to be prepared
and executed.
On the 3d of December, 1841, the mortgage was duly executed
by Collier, and delivered to Farrar, and accepted by him on
behalf of the bank.
It was recorded in the proper office, and a copy with the three
notes transmitted by mail to the bank agreeably to the instructions.
On the 20th of April, 1843, the Farmers' Bank of Virginia
applied to the judge of the Circuit Court'of the United States,
in the District of Louisiana, for an executor's process against the
estate of Groves, he having died in December, 1841, praying
that so much of his estate might be seized and sold as should
-be necessary to satisfy the judgment, which had been obtained
by the bank against him December 1st, 1840, and which we
have already referred to; and an order was granted accordingly;
whereupon, Horace H. Groves, the son of the deceased, and
administrator of the estate, filed the bill in this case in the Cir.
cuit Court of the United States, setting out, substantially, the
facts already recited, and praying that the bank may be enjoined
from proceeding to seize and sell any part of the estate, that the
,executory process may'be set aside, and the bank decreed to
enter satisfaction of the judgment of record.
The answer of the bank denies the authority of Collier to act
for them in any settlement or discharge of the judgment, or for
any purpose in connection therewith. They also deny that they
ever gave their assent to the alleged discharge of the debt for
which the judgment was rendered, or ever ratified or confirmed
the acts and doings of Collier in relation thereto.
They further allege, that Collier was indebted to them in the
year 1837, in a large amount, and that he transferred to them
the acceptances of Groves, mentioned in the bill, as far back as
1837 and before they reached maturity, as collateral security for
his indebtedness. That they never int3nded to place the bills
unUer the control of 'Collier, but held them as their own, and
prosecited them to judgment. Nor did they ever allow him to
take the charge and management of the judgment as their agent
after it was,recovered.
They further allege, that being delayed in the collection of the
collateral- securities, and receiving no payments from Collier,
they employed James W. Pegram, in Novepnber, 1841, as their
agnt, to call upon Collier, at his home, 'with instructions to
6btain a more satisfactory arrangement of the debt against him.
That it resulted in the extension of the time of payment on his
giving the- mortgage, and notes referred to in the bill. They
admit it was understood betweei their agent and Coier, that

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

57

The Farmers' Bank of Virginia v. Groves..

the negotiable paper which had been transferred as collateral
security was to be surrendered up to him, the security furnished
by the mortgage being, as represented by him, sufficient to
secure his indebtedness, and relying on his punctuality in the
payment of the notes as they became due. That two of the
notes provided for by the mortgage are already past due, and
nothing paid by thesaid Collier; that the property covered by
the mortgage is discovered to be liable under previous incumbrances to a large amount, which 'may render -it insufficient for
the payment of their debt. That said Collier has long since
waived the assignm~nt of the said judgment, and consented
that the bank might retain it as additional security.
The court below granted a preliminary injunction, and afterwards at the hearing on the pleadings and proofs, confirmed the
same, and decreed, that satisfaction of the judgment against
Groves should be. entered of record.
Upon full consideration we are of opinion this decree is right,
and should be affirmed.
King, the drawer of the bills, was the principal debtor, as the
acceptance by Groves was for his accommodation. He was
therefore bound to provide for them and keep Groves harmless;
and this he did, so far as the interest of Collier was concerned,
by the agreement of 26th February, 1841, and subsequent purchase by Collier of the plantation and slaves in pursuance of its
stipulations. The purchase and title of the property under the
sheriff's sale, it was agreed, should be made, and taken in satisfaction of this among other demands against King; and in order
to complete the satisfaction, Collier bound himself to procure a
discharge of the judgment which the bank had recovered upon
the drafts, and then held. Groves was privy, and consenting to
this arrangement between King and Collier, and, as between
the latter and him, W1hen consummated, it constituted a valid
defence to the drafts or judgment either in law or equity.
It is true, as the bank was not privy and consenting to the
arrangement, their interest in the drafts was unaffected by it,
anai they were still at liberty to enforce their judgment against
Groves, if necessary to the payment of the debt for which the
drafts had been pledged as security.
But, on the 3d of December following, they entered into an
arrangement with Collier. by whioh it was agreed that, on
the execution and delivery to them of three notes, payable in
one, two, and three years, covering -the whole amount of his
indebtedness to the bank, together with a mortgage upon a large
plantation and slaves, besides other real estate, as security for
the payment, all the collateral securities previously held for the
indebtedness should be given up to him. The notes and mort-

58

SUPREME COURT.
The Farmers' Bank of Virginia v. Groves.

gage were executed and delivered accordingly, and the collateral
securities surrendered, and the interest in them again exclusively
vested in Collier; and in this way becoming the owner of the
drafts and judgment against Groves, for which he had already
received satisfaction, and bound himself to procure a discharge
from the bank, the agreement with King, the principal debtor,
operated instantly as art extinguishment of the demand; and
placed it beyond the power of either Collier or the bank, or both
of them together, to revive it by any subsequent arrangement.
The defence of Groves, arising out of the agreement of King
with Collier, attached immediately on the bank reinvesting Collier with their interest, in the drafts, and would adhere to them
into whosever hands they might pass. They were not only bills
over due, but had become merged in judgment against Groves.
It has been argued, on behalf of the bank, that Collier failed
to comply with all the conditions upon which they stipulated
to accept the mortgage and surrender the previous collateral
securities; and especially in one important particular, namely,
the discharge of record of existing incumbrances upon the property so as to reduce them to an amount not exceeding $35,000.
But there are several answers to this objection.
In the first place, the weight 'of the proof is, that the agent,
after an investigation and examination of these incumbrances,
waived the discharge of record, being satisfied that they had been
paid from the representation of Collier.
And in the second, no such ground of defence is set up in the
ansv er, nor is there any allegation of imposition or fraud by
Collier in the transaction. And, in the third, assuming that
there was, the bank could not avail themselves of it for the purpose of avoiding their part of the arrangement, and, at the same
time, hold on to the mortgage as a security for Collier's indebtedness. There has been no surrender of the mortgage, on the
part of th6 bank, or offer to surrender and vacate the agreement.
On the contrary, it is claimed by them as an available security,
held and'relied on against Collier.
It may be, that if a fraud had been committed* upon the
bank, in the negotiation to substitute this mortgage for other
collateral securities, upon a surrender of the mortgage and notes
accompanying it to Collier, on a discovery of the fraud, claiming
to vacate the arrangement on this ground, their right to and interest in the securities surrendered, in the absence of any prejudice
to the rights of third persons acquired, in the mean time, might
revive; and, in this way, the defence of Groves be overreached,
the bank being thus remitted to their original rights. But, be
this as it may, as no such step has been taken, nor even claim of
fraud s6t up in the pleadings, we are bound to regard the ar-

DECEMBER T

l$RM, 1851.

69

Lessiour et al. v. Price.

rangement as valid and binding upon both parties; and if any
fraud or imposition has been committed to the prejudice of the
bank, they must look to him personally for compensation and
redress. The rights acquired by each party to the securities ex.
changed, must be taken to be such as were intended by the
terms of agreement; and, regarding the transaction in this
light, it is clear, even conceding, as is alleged, that Collier has
since waived the surrender of the c6l1ateral securities for which
he had stipulated, or has since reassigned them to the bank, the
defence of Groves is still complete. These drafts, and judgment upon them, became extinguished the moment the agree.
meht between the bank and Collier was carried into execution.
They then became the exclusive property of the latter, in which
event his agreement with King, the principal debtor, worked an
immediate satisfaction.
It has, also, been argued, that King has failed to fulfil all the
stipulations in his agreement with Collier, and hence that it is
not available to Groves. But this is a question exclusively be.
tween him and Collier, who, for aught that appears, is content
with'the agreement in the way it has been carried into execution.
He purchased the property and took the sheriff's deed as is al.
the
estate,
anddenied,
still holds
it intoAnd,
he has not
of
enjoyment
and
acquired
all the
the possession
went
and not
feged,
to King,
lookchosen
he must
to
He has
for in his agreement,
and redress.
for compensation
personally,stipulated
property
accept the execution of the agreement, and must be deemed
bound by its stipulations.
In ever view we have been able to take of the case, we are
of opinion the decree of the court below is righ., and should be
affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on-to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Dig.
trict of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause b6,
and the same is hereby affirmed, with costs.
GODFREY LEssIrEu,

ABnArM AUGUSTINE AND MARY W. HIS WIFE,

THOMAS IL DAWSON, RICHARD J. WATSON AND SARAH HIS
WIFE, AND PALMrELIA E. DAwsON, LAURA A. DAWSON AND
GEORGE W. DAWSoN, INFANTS, BY THOMAS H. DAWSON THEIR
GUARDIAN, PLAINTIFFS IN EnRROR, v. THOMU.AS PicE.
Where the highest court of a State affirmed the judgment of the court below, ta
consequence of an equal division between the judges thereof, such judgment of

