DECEMBER

TERM,

The United States v.

1851.

433

Simon.

reversed, and a mandate issued directing the petition to be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled; and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District
Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of the claimant.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

V.

EDWARD SIAiON.

In 1791 miro granted an order of survey for some land in Louisiana.
During the ten years that the province,remained in the hands of Spain, the grantee
neither had a survey, nor took possession, nor did any other act showing an intention of fulfilling the conditions upon which the grant was made.
The regulations of Morales required parties so situated to have their titles made out.
In ca-e of neglect the Spanish government was under no obligation to grant the
land, and therefore the claim is not good against the United States.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The case arose under the acts of 1824 -and 1844, and was decided by the District Court in favor of the petitioner. The circurnstances are stated in the opinion of the court.
It -was argued by Mr. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the
Wnited States. No counsel appeared for the appellee.
Mr.Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Edward Simon, the plaintiff below, filed his petition in the
District Court of Louisiana, praying the confirmation of his
title to a tract of land on the bayou Sans Facon or Huffpower,
containing si: thousand four hundred arpens. He claimed by
various niesne conveyances through Stephen Flores, who on the
11th of November, 1791, petitioned Governor Miro for a grant of
eighty arpens front on each side of said bayou; the petitioner
being "desirous," as he states, "of establishing himself in the
post of Opelousas." On the 20th of November, 1791, Governor Miro issued an order to Don Carlos Trudeau to establish
the petitioner on the land for which he prays, in the usual form.
VOL. XII.

37

434

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v.' Simon.

The pleadings in this case do not allege, nor is there any evidence to prove, that Stephen Flores ever "established himself at
the post of Opelousas," or took possession of the land which he
desired to have, or obtained a survey thereof, or did any other
act showing an intention of fulfilling the known conditions by
which such gratuitous concessions could be converted from an
inchoate into a complete title. In March, 1820, more than
thirt years after its date, the order of survey is transferred by a
person calling himself Stephen Flores to John Thompson. In
1825 John Thompson filed his claim with the register; but no
actionitwas
it, as its genuineness was doubted. In
1836
wastaken
againonsubmited
by the present petitioner to the
afterwards
reported
against
by
the
Solicitor
register
and reeiv er of Opelousas,
under of
thethe
actGeneral
of 1835,
and
LandOffice, because of "no inhabitation', no cultivation, no possession."
The land supposed to be described in this order of survey has
been
all,the
long
since,orsurveyed
and sold by the United States.
During
twelve
thirteen years
that the Province of Louisiana was in possession of Spain and France; Flores showed no
desire of complying with the conditions of his grant, in any
way, or of obtaining a title for the land offered
t
him by this
order, of survey. For twenty years after the land passed to the
United claims
States, for
and
after officers nowere
to receive and
report
confirmation,
act appointed
is done to show
that this
mere equitable inchoate claim was not wholly abandoned. After
a neglect of ten years and more to obtain a survey, to settle or
improve the land or take Spi
possessiQn of
the Spanish government was under no obligation, equitable or moral, to grant this
land to Flores. As was said by this court in the case of United
States v. Boisdore, (11 How. 96) "The po~licy of Spain was to
make gratuitous
for the
of settlement and inhabitation,
and notgrants
for those
of purposes
mere speculation.
The grantee
might have his land surveyed or might decline ; heomight establish himself on the land or decline; these acts rested wholy in
his discretion. But if he failed to take possession and establish
himself he had no claimtoa
title; his concession or first decree
in The
suchregulations
case had no
of operation."
Morales of 1799, sections 18, 19,20,21, and
22i, warn those "who have merely asked for land," or "obtained
the first decree by which the surveyor is ordered to measure it
and, put them in possession," from indulging, the notion that
they have any title to it, and peremptorily require that they
should come forward and have their titles made out within sii
months. But, although we may believe that these conditions
were not rigidly exacted, there is no reasor to suppose that per-

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

435

The United States v. LeBlanc et al.

sons who have neglected to take possession, improve or survey
the lands, which they have requested to be given them, for ten,
twenty, or thirty years, can have any just claim on the government for such lands, or to receive others in place of them. Such
laches is conclusive evidence of abandonment, if not of their
total want of genuineness. But certainly no court of equity can
be required to enforce the specific execution of inchoate grants
or contracts made without consideration, which have been buried for half a century, and are now exhumed merely for purposes of sphculation.
The decree of the District Court is theretore reversed and
record remitted, -with directions to dismiss the bill or petition of
the plaintiff below.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the -opinion of this court that the grant is
null and void. Whereupon, it is now here ordered, adjudged
and decreed by this court, -that the decred of the said District
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition
of the claimant.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. CONSTANCE LEBLANC,
M\ODESTE LEBLANC, Louis LEBLANC, ASPASIA LEBLANC, JOsEP11 LEON AND RAPHAEL BROISSARD, LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES AND HEIRS AT LAV OF PIERRE LEBLANC, DECEASED.
A paper, offered aa a grant from the Spanish authorities for some land in Louisiana,
decided to be incomplete and nothing more than the preamble to Spanish grants.
M1oreover, there is no evidence that the claimants are the heirs of the grantee, nor
that any one claiming under him eer took possession or exercised any act of ownership t'om 1777 to 1846.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, being a land case
arising under the acts of 1824 and 1844.
The claimants presented in the District Court a paper, of
which the following is a translation:

"Don Bernardo de Galvez, Colonel, &c.

Having seen the

