DECEMBER
The Propeller

TERM, 1851.

Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

cause be, and the same is hereby reversed anct anrnullea, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded-to the said
District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of the
claimants.

THE

PROPELLER GENESEE CHIEF, HER TACKLE, APPAREL, AND
FURNITURE, WILLI*At L. PIERCE, MASTER, ALEXANDER KELSEY, WILLIAM H. CHENEY , WILLIAM HUNTER, LANSING B.
SWAN, GEORGE R. CLARK, AND ELISHA B. STRONG, APPELLANTS, V. HENRY FITZHUGH, DEWITT C. LITTLEJOHN, AND
JAMES PECK.

The act of Congress, passed on the 26th of February, 1845, (5 Stat. at Large, 726,)
extending the jurisdiction of the district courts to certain cases upon the lakes,
and navigable waters connecting the same, is consistent with the Constitution of
the United States.
It does not rest upon the power granted to Congress to regulate commerce.
But it rests upon the ground that the lakes and navigable waters connecting them are
within the scope of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as known and understood
in the United States, when the Constitution was adopted.
The admiralty and maritime jurisdiction granted to the Federal Government by the
Constitution of the United 'States is not limited to tide-waters, but extends to all
publi navigable lakes and rivers, where commerce is carried on between different
States, or with n foreign nation.
In the present ease of collision between avessel navigated by steam and a sailing
vecse!, the evidence showvs that the former was in fault.
It is the duty of every stcamhoat to keep a trustworthy person employed as a lookout;
and if there be none such, additional to the helmsman, or if he was not stationed in a proper place, or not vigilantly employed in his duty,
must be regarded
as piad facic evidence that the colrision was the fault of the itsteamboat.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York.
It was a libel fied by Fitzhugh, Littlejohn, and Peck.
The libellanis filed their libel in the District Court for the
Norhern Distric of New York, against the propeller Genesee
Chief, and Pierce, as master, in which they allege that they were

the owners of the schooner Cuba, a vessel of fifty tons burden
and upwards, enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, and
employed in the business of commerce and navigation between
ports and places in different States and territories upon the
lakes, and navigable waters connecting said lakes. That said
schooner, at the time of the loss and collision, thereinafter mentioned, was laden with five thousand nine hundred and fifty-five
bushel of wheat; and tn Lake Ontario, about forty miles below
Niagara, bound from Sandusky, in the State of Ohio, to Oswego, i the State of New York. Thati the p opeller Genesee
Chief, of which the appellant, Pierce, was master, and being a
vessel of fifty tons burden and upwards, duly enrolled and

444

SUPREME COURT.

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

licensed as aforesaid, ind then actually engaged in commerce
and navigation as aforesaid, while at the place aforesaid, on The
sixth day of May, 1847, by the carelessness and negligence of
the master and crew, ran foul of and sunk the said schooner, with
her cargo; and concluding with the usual prayer for the condemnation of the vessel and for the payment of the damage.
The claimants of Alexander Kelsey and others, and the master, put in their joint and several answer to the libel, admitting
the collision and the loss of the Cuba, but denying that the collision happened from any want of care, negligence, or mismanagement of the master or crew of the propeller, and alleging
that the collision occurred in consequence of, and was occasi6ned by the carelessness, ignorance, mismanagement and want of
skill of the master and crew of-the Cuba. The answer also contains the following objection to the jurisdiction of the court:
"And these respondents aver that the respondents Alexander
Kelsey, William H. Cheney, Lansing B. Swan, George R.
Clarke, Elisha B. Strong, and William L. Pierce, are all citizens
of the State of New York, and that the said Henry Fitzhugh
and Dewitt C. Littlejohn are also citizens of the State of New
York; and they also aver that the collision set forth in the said
libel occurred within the territorial boundaries of the said State,
and hot on the high seas, nor in any arm of the sea, river, creek,
stream, or other body of water where the tide ebbs and flows,
and therefore they say that this court has no jurisdiction over
the matters set forth in the said libel, and they pray that the
same effect may be given to their defence in this respect as if
the, same were made by special plea or exception."
The cause was tried before his honor the district judge, in
April, 1848, and a decree passed in favor of the libellants. The
respondents appealed to the Circuit Court, and the cause was
tried in that court in June, 1849. The decree of the District
Court was affirmed.
The master of the propeller, Pierce, was allowed to file a separate answer in the Circuit Court, and he was sworn as a witness for the claimants.
From this decree the owners of the propeller appealed to this
court.
It was argued by Xr. ."Vatlhews, for the appellants, and by
X, Grant and 1r. Seward, for the appellees.
The points made by the appellees (the libellants) will first be
stated as they were made in the Circuit Court and repeated
here. The natural order appears to be that the libellants should
prove their case.

DECEMBER TERM,
The Propeller Genesee

1851.

445

Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

itr. Grant, for-the libellants, contended that the following
fatcts were proved by the evidence, and made these points:
1st Point. The propeller was bound up the lake with a light
load, going eight miles an hour, while the Cuba was bound down
the lake, heavily loaded, with a light breeze, making only two
miles an hour. The courses of the two vessels were about one
hundred rods apart, and they would have passed each other at
that distance, had not the propeller swung off from her course.
2d. The Cuba was close hauled on the wind, and having laid
her tourse, was justified in keeping it.
1. A vessel having the wind free must give way to one close
hauled, or be responsible for the consequences. 2 Dodson, 36,
37; 2 Chitty's Gen. Prac. 514; Story on Bailm. 611; Am.
Law Journal, vol. 4, No. 4; Lyle v. The Conestoga; Id. Feb.
1849, 354.
2. A steam vessel is regarded as always having the wind fair.
2 Hag. Ad. Rep. 173; 3 Id. 414; 2 Wend. 452; 2 Chitty's
Gen. Prac. 514, 515; Story on Bailm. 611; Conk. Ad. Prac.
305, 308; Abbott on Ship. part 3, p. 300, 308, 311; 10 Howard,
558-587.
3. The proceedings on the part of her master were strictly
regular; he performed his duty in every respect. Story on
Bailm. 611; The Thomas, 5 Rob. No. 345; 5 Rob. 316.
4. The Cuba had a good light, which was hung in a conspicuous place, and was seen by the propeller four or five miles
off.
5. No response was given to the Cuba's hail, and the propeller continuing on her swinging course-to bear down directly
upon the Cuba, the captain was justified in his order to put the
helm down; especially as the danger had then become so immiiient, that the putting the helm up or down could not have
avoided the -collision or changed its result.
6. Pierce is not a competent witness for the appellants. 1
Browne's Civ. Co. Law 500, 601; 1 Story, 96 ; Waxe's Rep. 367;
Wood's Inst. 315, 316; 2 Page's Ch. Rep. 54; 1 Sumn. 343,
2944, 401, 432; 2 Gall. 48, 60; How. Rep. 53, 57; 2 Hag. Ad.
Rep. 149, 151 ; 1 Pet. Ad. 139, 141, 211.
1st. The appellants have been guilty of delay. They might
have got this testimony in the court below. Conk. Ad. Prae.
755; 1 Sum. 331.
2d. The moving papers are defective in not showing how
the testinony -of Captain Pierce is pertinent. 1 Sum. 344,
345.
7. The collision was occasioned by the carelessness, negligence, and mismanagement of those having charge of the propeller, and the appellants are responsible for all the consequences.
VOL. XII.

38

SUP.REME COURT.
The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

1st. The propeller swung from her course, as if to pass the
Cuba on her larboard side, and, while thus swinging out, she
ran down and sunk the latter, with her engine in full operation.
2d. There was no officer of the watch on duty.,
3d. There was no look-out.
4th. The wheelsman is not a look-out. 10 How. 558, 587.
5th. W ite, the wheelsman, was asleep; if not, he was incapacitated by liquor or imperfect vision.
6th. Boskkirk was not competent as a look-out, even if he
had been on duty.
7th. There was no response from the propeller to the hail of
the Cuba. Abbott on Ship. 234; Story on Bail. 6, 611 ; 3 Kent,
230; 5 Id.; Brig Cynosure; 7 Law Rep. 222; The Shannon,
1 Win. Rob. 467 ; 1 Law Rep. 313, 318; Conk. Ad. 305- 311.
8th. The engine was not stopped. It was a clear starlight
night.
8. The propeller must account for her situation, and show
satisfactorily that there was no mismanagement, or mistake, or
blame, that can be reasonably imputed to her. The Perth, 3
Hag. Ad. R. 414, 417.
9. Her excuses are unsatisfactory and untrue, to wit:
1st. That the Cuba had the wind fair; that she changed her
course and crossed the propeller's bows.
2d. That the Cuba had no light; and if she had, the night
was so thick, smoky, and foggy, it could not have been seen by
the propeller.
10. The case, as claimed by the appellants, is not possible;
while the one proven by the libellants could have occurred.
Under the former, the vessels could not be brought together
by their courses and speed, as is demonstrated by the diagrams.
11. The act of Congress of 1845, extending the jurisdiction
of the District Court to the cases therein mentioned, is constitutional. 5 How. Rep. 441; 6 Id. 344, 386; Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.
12. The libellants are entitled to recover the amount of damages allowed them in the decree below, together with the
interest thereon, "with costs, in the District Court, in the Circuit Court, and in the Supreme Court, and damages and reasonable counsel fee. Rule 17, 20."

Mr. Mathews made the following points:
1st. Tie District Court had not jurisdiction of the case, and
the libel should have been dismissed for that cause. The following three reasons are given for this:
1. It is not a case of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
The Propeller Genesee

447

Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

under the Constitution of the United States, which is limited
to cases occurring upon waters within the ebb and flow of the
tide. The Jefferson. 10 Wheat. 428; The Steamboat Orleans
v. Phoebus, 11 Pet. 175; The United States v. Combs, 12 Pet.
72; Waring et al. v. Clarke, 5 How. 441; New Jersey S. N.
Co. v. Merchants Bank, 6 Id. 344; Thomas v. Lane, 2 Sumn.
1,9.
2. It is not a case arising under the Constitution, or any law
of Congress. 1 Pet. 512, 545; 10 How. 99.
3. The act of Congress of the 26th February, 1845, is not
authorized by the Constitution of the United States, and is in
conflict with it, and is void.
The Constitution declares that the judicial power of the federal courts shall extend to all cases arising under the Constitution and the laws of the United States, and to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and to other cases particularly enumerated, but which it is unnecessary to specify here.
It is supposed that the jurisdiction of the federal courts is
limited to the cases and subjects particularly enumerated in the
Constitution, and that it cannot be extended beyond these.
Such has been the uniform construction of that instrument.
In the case of Marbury v. Madison, I Cranch, 137, it was
held that the Supreme Court had not jurisdiction to issue writs
of mandam us, and that the 13th section of the Judiciary Act of
1790, conferring such jurisdiction, was not authorized by the
Constitution, and was void.
In Hodgson v. Bowerbank, 5 Cranch, 303, jurisdiction was
claimed, on the ground that an alien was a party under the 11th
section of the Judiciary Act of 1789. " Marshall, C. J. Turn
to the article of the Constitution of the United States, for the
statute cannot extend the jurisdiction beyond the limits of the
Constitution." The same point was ruled in the case of Mossman v. Higginson, 4 Dall. 12.
In the 8S3d number of the Federalist, Mr. Hamilton uses the
following language: "In like manner, the authority of the federal judicatures is declared by the Constitution to comprehend
certain cases particularly specified. The expression of thosecases marks the precise limits beyoud which the federal courts
camot extend their jurisdiction; because the objects of their cognizance being enumerated, the specification would be nugatory
if it did not exclude all ideas of more extensive authority."
And, again, in No. 82, lie says: " I shall lay it down as a rule,
that the State courts will retain the jurisdiction they now have,
unless it appears to be taken away in one of the enumerated
modes." And see, also, opinion of C. J. Marshall, in Marbury
sv. Madison, 1 Cranch, 173-174.

448

SUPREME COURT.

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

The doctrine which I deduce from these authorities is this:
the Constitution declares that the judicial power shall extend to
certain cases, which are particularly expressed, and limits its exercises to those cases.
If this proposition is sound, then the act of the 26th February is not authorized by, and is in conflict with, the Constitution; but the act extends the jurisdiction to cases which this
court has already held are not among the cases particularly specified in the Constitution.
It may, however, be said that, under the power given to Congress to regulate commerce among the several States, and to
make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into execution this power, Congress was authorized to make the
law in question. It may be observed, in the first place, that the
act does not purport to be a regulation of commerce. The title
of the act shows that its object is simply to extend the jurisdiction of*the district courts to cases which were not before within
the cognizance of those courts. Although the title of an act
cannot be regarded as any part of the act itself, it is sometimes
resorted to, to ascertain the object and purpose of its enactment.
See Dwarris on Statutes, 653.
But I have already shown, that the Constitution contains a
prohibition against extending the judicial power beyond the
cases specified in the Constitution. The Constitution must be
so construed that all its parts will harmonize. The power to
regulate commerce, and to make all laws necessary and proper
for that purpose, must be so executed as not to conflict with the
prohibition against extending the judicial power beyond the
prescribed limits.
It will not be pretended that Congress has the power to make
any ex post facto law, or to lay any tax or duty on articles exported from any State, in execution of the power to regulate
commerce. The prohibition in these cases is expressed; but a
prohibition which is necessarily implied, is just as binding upon
Congess as if it were expressed. The Constitution has made
ample provision for bringing "within the cognizance of the federal courts all cases which may arise under any proper regulation
of commerce among the Stafes. which may be. prescribed by
Congress in the general provision, that the judicial power shall
extend to all cases arising under any law of the United States.
If this law can be sustained, it is not perceived why Congress
may not extend the jurisdiction of the federal courts to every
case of contract or tort, growing out of the extensive trade and
commerce, now carried on, by land and water, among the States
of the Union; and thus draw within the cognizance of these
courts one half of the litigation of the country. See opinion
of Mr. J. Nelson, 6 How. 392.

-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

449

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Filzhugh et al.

2d. The libellants are not entitled to recover in this case upon
the merits, without showing negligence on the part of the Chief,
accompanied with freedom from blame on the part of the Cuba.
Abbott on Shipping, 238, Perkins's Ed. 312. The burden of proving negligence is on the libellants. 2 Hagg. 145.
3rd. The Chief was without fault. No blame or negligence
can be imputed to her.
1. She was well and sufficiently manned.
2. She was well lighted, and lights were in proper places.
3. She had a competent and proper look-out. The captain,
the man at the wheel, and one on the deck were suffiient. 10
How. 585. If the captain and the man at the wheel done were
on deck, it was a competent look-out, according to the testimony
of all the nautical men in this case.
4. But if the look-out was insufficient, unless the loss can be
imputed to that cause, the libellants cannot recover. 6 Law
Rep. 111.
5. If the Cuba had no light in her rigging, it was not the
fault of the Chief that she was not seen in time to avoid the
collision. In the absence of such light she could not have been
seen from the Chief. The smoke or haze on the water, and
the position of the Cuba between the Chief and the land prevented it.
4th. The pretence that the Chief suddenly changed her course
just before the collision, and swung around to the north, is without any foundation.
1. The weight of evidence is clearly against it.
2. It is iinprobable. When the testimony is conflicting, the
court will be guided by the probabilities of the case. The lary
Stuart, 2 W. Rob. 244.
5th, The course of the Chief in going to the leeward was
proper. It was according to the law of the sea. 3 Carr. &
Payne, 528-529; Id. 601; 3 Hagg. 321; 1 Law Rep. 313, 318.
6th. The Cuba was in fault, and her fault was the cause of
the collision.
1. She was in fault in bearing away after she saw the Chiefs
light. The Cuba should have kept her course, oh the libellants'
own showing. If she was close-hauled she should have kept
her course. The Celt, 3 Hagg. 321, and see fol. 974 and 1312
of case. If she had the wind three points free, then she should
have passed to the right even if she had to change her course
for that purpose. 1 Law Rep. 313, 318, and see testimony of
Capt. Eggleston, fol. 1012. 2. The master of the Cuba sa- he saw the Chief coming
directly towards him. He ought to have known that it was not
38

450

SUPREME COURT.
The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. -Y. Fitzhugh et al.

by design, and he should have changed his course and hung out
more lights.
3. But the proof clearly shows that the Cubawas to the windward of the Chief and that she went to the leeward crossing the
bows of the Chief.
4. The Cuba had no light in her rigging. The weight of evidence is against the libellants on this point.
7th. The declarations and admissions of the master are evidence against the libellants, and are to be treated as the declarations and admissions of the libellants themselves, especially as
the libellants have failed to produce the protest. The Manchester, 1 NV. Rob. 62; Abbott on Shipping, 380, Perkins's Ed. of
1846, 465-466; The Emma, 2 W. Rob. 315.
8th. The testimony of the principal witnesses on the part of
the libellants is so far discredited that no decree ought to be predicated upon it.
1. The master is discredited by his own declarations, and this
impeachment extends to the crew.
2. As to the light, the master is contradicted by Rickerby and
by the men on the Chief.
3. As to ohe force of the wind, the distance which the Cuba
sailed between 6 o'clock and the time of the collision, show
most clearly that the statement of her master and Sharp cannot
be true.
4. As to the course of the wind: The master and Sharp are
contradicted by the men on the Chief, and by Spence, Taylor,
Eggleston and Morgan.
9th. If the Cuba was in fault in either of the particulars before enumerated, the libellants cannot recover. This seems to
be now the settled law in cases of collision. Rathbun v. Payne,
19 Wend. 399; Barnes v. Cole, 21 Wend. 188; Spencer v. Utica
and S. R. R. Co. 5 Barbour, 337.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY deliveredthe opinion of the court.
This is a case of collision on Lake Ontario. The libellants
were the owners of the schooner Cuba, and the respondents and
present appellants the master and owners o the propeller Genesee Chief. The libellants state that on the 6th of May, 1847, as
the Cuba was on her voyage from Sandusky, in the State of
Ohio, to Oswego, in the State of New York, the Genesee Chief,.
which was proceeding on a voyage up the lake, ran foul of her
and damaged her so seriously that she shortly afterwards sunk,
with her cargo on board; and they also allege that the collision
was occasioned by the carelessness and mismanagement of the
officers and crew of the propeller, without any fault of the officers or crew of the Cuba. The responder-ts deny that it was

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. FitzhVgh et al.

occasioned by the fault of the steamboat, and impute it to the
carelessness with which the schooner was managed.
The proceeding is in rem, and in substance as well as in form,
a proceeding in adralty. It was instituted under the act of'
February 26, 1845, (5 Stat. at Large, 726,) extending the jurisdiction of the district courts to certain cases upon the lakes and
navigable waters connecting the same. The District Court de.
creed in favor of the libellants, and the decision was affirmed in
the Circuit Court, from which last-mentioned decree this appeal
has been taken.
Before, however, we can look into the merits of the dispute
there is a question of jurisdiction which meets us at the threshold. When the act of Congress was passed, under which these
proceedings were had, serious doubts were entertained of its
constitutionality. The language and decision of this court,,
whenever a question of admiralty jurisdiction had come before
it, seemed to imply that under the Constitution of the United
States, the jurisdiction was confined to tide-waters. Yet the
conviction that this definition of admiralty powers was narrower
than the Constitution contemplated, has been growing stronger
every day with the growing commerce on the lakes and navigable rivers of the western States. And the difficulties which
*thelanguage and decisions of this court had thrown in the way,
of extending it to these waters, have perhaps led to the inquiry
whether the law in question could not be supported under the
power granted to Congress to regulate commerce. This proposi'tion has been maintained in a recent work upon the jurisdiction, law, and practice of the courts of the United States in
admiralty and maritime causes, which is entitled to much respect, and the same ground has been taken in the argument of
the case before us.
The law, however, contains no regulations of commerce; nor
any provision in relation to shipping and navigation on the
lakes. It merely confers a new jurisdiction on- the district
courts; and this is its only object and purpose. It is entitled
"An act extending the jurisdiction of the district courts to certain cases upon the lakes and navigable waters connecting the
same;" and the enacting clause conforms to the title. It declares that these courts shall have, possess, and exercise the same
jurisdiction in matters of contract and tort, arising in or upon or
concerning steamboats and other vessels of twenty tons burden
and upwards, enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, and at
the time employed in business of commerce and navigation between ports and places in different States and territories, as was
at the time of the passage of the law possessed and exercised by
che district courts in cases of like steamboats and other vessels

SUPREME COURT.
The Propeller Genesee

Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

employed in navigation and commerce on the high seas, or tide.
waters -ithin the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the
United States.
It is evident, therefore, from the title as well as the body of
the law, that Congress, in passing it, did not intend to exercise
their power to regulate commerce; nor to derive their authority
from that article of the Constitution. And if the constitutionality of this law is supported as a regulation of commerce, we
shall impute to the legislature the exercise of a power which it
has not claimed under that clause of the Constitution; and which
we .have no reason to suppose it deemed itself authorized to exercise.
Indeed it would be inconsistent with the plain and ordinary
meaning of words, to call a law defining the jurisdiction of certain courts of the United States aregulation of commerce. This
law gives jurisdiction to a certain extent over commerce and
navigation and authorizes the court to expound the laws that
regulate them. But the jurisdiction to administer the existing
laws upon these subjects is certainly not a regulation within the
meaning, of the Constitution. And this act of Congress merely
creates a tribunal to carry the laws into execution but does not
prescribe them.
Nor can the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States
be made to depend on regulations of commerce. They are entirely distinct things, having no necessary connection with one
another, and are conferred in the Constitution by separate and
distinct grants. The extent of the judicial power is carefully
defined and limited, and Congress cannot enlarge it to suit even
the wants of commerce, nor for the more convenient execution
of its commercial regulations. And the limits fixed by the Constitution to the judicial authority of the courts of the United
States, would form an insuperable objecton to this law, if its
validity depended upon the commercial power.
This power is as extensive upon land as upon water. a ne
Constitution makes no distinction in that respect. And if the
admiralty jurisdiction, in matters of contract and tort which the
courts of the United States may lawfully exercise on the high
seas, can be extended to the lakes under the power to regulate
commerce, it can with the same propriety and upon the same
construction, be extended to contracts and torts on land when
the commerce is between different States. And it may embrace
also the vehicles and persons engaged in carrying it on. It
would, be in the power of Congress to confer admiralty jurisdiction upon its courts, over the- cars engaged in transporting passengers or merchandise froin one State to another, and over the
persons engaged in conducting them, and deny to the parties

DECEM1BER TERMI,

1851.

453

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.
the trial by jury. Now the judicial power in ..ases of admiralty
and maritime jurisdiction, has never been supposed to extend to'
contracts made on land and to be executed on land. But if the
power of regulating commerce can be made the foundation of
jurisdiction in its courts, and a new and extended admiralty
jurisdiction beyond its heretofore known and admitted limits,
ma-y be created on water under that authority, the same reason
would justify the same exercise of power on land.
Besides, the jurisdiction established by this act of Congress
does not depend on the residence of the parties. And under the
admiralty powers conferred on the District Courts, they are
authorized to proceed in rem or i& personam in the cases mentioned in the law although the parties concerned are citizens of
the same State. If the lakes and waters connecting them aze
within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as conferred by
the Constitution, then undoubtedly this authority may be lawfully exercised, because this jurisdiction depends upon the place
and not upon the residence of the parties.
But if the admiralty jurisdiction is confined to fide-water, the
courts of the United States can exercise over the waters in question nothing more than ordinary jurisdiction in cases at common
law and equity. And in cases of this description they have no
jurisdiction, if the parties are citizens of the same State. This
being an express limitation in the grant of judicial power, no
act of Congress can enlarge it. And if the validity of the act
of 1845 depended upon the power to regulate commerce it
would be unconstitutional, and could confer no authority on .,e
District Courts.
If this law, therefore, is constitutional, it must be supported
on the ground that the lakes and navigable waters connecting
them are within the scope of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as klown and understood in the UOnited States when the
Constitution was adopted.
If the meaning of these terms was -now for the first time
brought before this court for consideration, there could, we think,
be no hesitation in saying that the lakes and their connecting
waters were embraced in them. These lakes are in truth inland
seas. Different States border on them on one side, and a foreign
nation on the other. A great and g-owing commerce is carried
on .upon then between different 8tates and a foreign nation,
which is subject ti'all the incidents and hazards that attend commerce on the ocean. Hostile fleets have encountered on them,
and prizes been made; and every reason"which existed for the
grant of admiralty jurisdiction to the general government on the
Atlantic seas, applies with equal force to the lakes. There is an
equal necessity for the instance and for the prize pdwer of the

SUPREME COURT.
The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

admiralty court to administer international law, and if the one
cannot be established neither can the other.
Again. The union is formed upon the basis of equal rights
among all the States. Courts of admiralty have been ibund
necessary in all commercial countries, not only for the safety and
convenience of commerce, and the speedy decision of controversies, where delay would often be ruin, but also to administer the
laws of nations in a season of war, and to determine the validity of captures and questions of prize or no prize in a judicial
proceeding. And it would be contrary to the first principles on
which the Union was formed to confine these rights to the States
bordering on the Atlantic, and to the tide-water rivers connected
with it, and to deny them to the citizens who border on the
lakes, and the great navigable streams which flow through the
western States. Certainly such was not the intention of the
framers of the Constitution; and if such be the construction
finally given to it by this courf, it must necessarily produce great
public inconvenience, and at the same time fail to accomplish
one of the great objects of the framers of the Constitution:
that is, a perfect equality in the rights and the privileges of the
citizens of the different States; not only in the laws of the general government, but in the mode of administering them. That
equality does not exist, if the commerce on the lakes and on the
navigable waters of the West are denied the benefits of the
same courts and the same jurisdiction for its proteation which
the Constitution secures to the States bordering on the Atlantic.
The only objection made to this jurisdiction is that there is no
tide in the lakes or the waters connecting them; and it is said
that the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, as known and understood in England and this country at the time the Constitution was adopted, was confined to the ebb and flow of the tide.
Now there is certainly nothing in the ebb and flow of the tide
that makes the waters peculiarly suitable for admiralty jurisdiction, nor any thing in the absence of a tide that renders it unfit.
If it is a public navigable water, on which commerce is carried
on bet-veen different States or nations, the reason for the jurisdiction is precisely the same. And if a distinction is made
on that account, it is merely arbitrary, without any foundation in reason; and, indeed, would seem to be inconsistent
with it.
In England, undoubtedly the writers upon the subject, and
the decisions in its courts of admiralty, ahiways speak of the jnrisdiction as confined to tide-water. And this definition in
England was a sound and reasonable one, because there was no
navigable stream in the country beyond the ebb and flow of the
tide; nor any place where a port could be established to carry

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

455

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

on trade with a foreign nation, and where vessels could enter or
depart with cargoes.
In England, therefore tide-water and
navigable water are synonymous terms, and tide-water, with a
few small and unimportant exceptions, meant nothing more than
public rivers, as contradistinguished from private ones; and they
took the ebb and flow of the tide as the test, because it was a
convenient one, and more easily determined the character of the
river. Hence the established doctrine in England, that the admiralty jurisdiction is confined to the ebb and flow of the tide.
In other words, it is confined to public navigable waters.
At the time the Constitution of the United States was adopted, and our courts of admiralty went into operation, the defiAition which had been adopted in England was equally proper
here. In the old thirteen States the far greater part of the navigable waters are tide-waters. And in the States which were at
that period in any degree commercial, and where courts of admiralty were called on to exercise their jurisdiction, &very public
river was tide-water to the head of navigation. And, indeed,
until the discovery of steamboats, there could be nothing like
foreign commerce upon waters with an unchanging current resisting the upward passage. The courts of the United States
therefore, naturally adopted the English mode of defining a
public river, and consequently the boundary of admiralty jurisdiction. It measured it by tide-water. And that definition
having found its way into our courts, became, after a time, the
familiar mode of describing a public river, and was repeated, as
cases occurred, without particularly examining whether it was
as universally applicable in th:is country as it was in England.
If there were no waters in the United States which are public,
as contradistinguished from private, except wlere there is tide,
then unquestionably here as well as in England, tide-water must
be the limits of admiralty power. And as the English definition
was adopted in our courts, and constantly used in judicial proceedings and forms of pleading, borrowed from England, the
public character of the river was in process of time lost sight of,
and the jurisdiction of the admiralty treated as if it was limited
by the tide. The description of a public navigable river was
substituted in the place of the thing intended to be described.
And under the natural influence of precedents and established
forms, a definition originally correct was adhered to and acted
on, after it had ceased, from a change in circumstances, to be
the true description of public waters. It was under the influence of these precedents and this usage, that the case of the
Thomas Jefferson, 10 Wheat. 428, was decided in this court;
and the jurisdiction of the courts of admiralty of the United
States declared to be limited to the ebb and flow of the tide.

SUPREME
The Propeller

COURT.

Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh

et al.

The steamboat Orleans v. Phcebus, 11 Pet. 175, afterwards followed this case, merely as a point decided.
It is the decision in the case of the Thomas Jefferson which
mainly embarrasses the court in the present inquiry. We are
sensible of the great weight to which it is entitled. But at the
same time we are convinced that, if we follow it, we follow an
erroneous decision into which the court fell, when the great importance of the question as it now presents itself could not be
foreseen; and the subject did not therefore receive that deliberate consideration which at this time would have been given to
it by the eminent men who presided here when that case was
decided. For the decision was made in 1825, when the commerce on the rivers of the west and on the lakes was in its infancy, and of little importance, and but little regarded compared
with that of the present day.
IMNoreover, the nature of the questions concerning the extent of
the admiralty jurisdiction, which have arisen in this court, were
not calculated to call its attention particularly to the one we
are now considering. The point in dispute has generally been,
whether the jurisdiction was not as limited in the United States
as it was in England at the time the Constitution was adopted.
And if it was so limited, then it did not extend to contracts for
maritime services when made on land; nor to torts and collisions
on a tide-water river, if they took place in the body of a country.
Th attention of the court, therefore, in farmer cases, has been
generally strongly attracted to that question, and never, we
believe, until recently, drawn to the one we are now discussing,
except in the case of the Thomas Jefferson, afterwards followed
in the steamboat Orleans v. Phcebus, as already mentioned. For,
with this exception, the cases always arose on contracts for services on tide-water, or were upon libels for collisions or other
torts committed within the ebb and flow of the tide. Therewas
therefore no necessity for inquiring whether the jurisdiction extended further in a public navigable water. And following the
English definition, tide was assumed and spoken of as its limit,
although that particular question was not before the court.
The attention of the court was, however, drawn to this subject in the case of Waring v. Clarke, 5 How. 441, which was decided in 1848. The collision took place on the Mississippi River,
near the bayou Goulab, and there was much doubt whether the
tide flowed so high. There was a good deal of conflicting evidence. But the majority of the court thobght there was suffi.
cient proof of tide there, and consequently it was not necessary
to consider whether the admiralty power extended higher.
But that case showed the ureasonableness of giving a construction to the Constitution which would measure the jurisdic-

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

457

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

tion of the admiralty by the tide. For if such be the construction, then a line"drawn across the river Mississippi would limit
the jurisdiction, although there were ports of entry above it, and
the water as deep and navigable, and the commerce as rich, and
exposed to the same hazards and incidents, as the commerce
below. The distinction would be purely artificial and arbitrary
as well as unjust, and would make the Constitution of the United
States subject one part of a public river to the jurisdiction of a
court of the United States, and deny it to another part equally
public and but a few yards distant.
It is evident that a definition that would at this day limit
public rivers in this country to tide-water rivers is utterly inadmissible. We have thousands of miles of public navigable
water, including lakes and rivers in which there is no tide. And
certainly there can be no reason for admiralty power over a public
tide-water, which does not apply with equal force to any other
public water used for commercial purposes and foreign trade.
The lakes and the waters connecting them are undoubtedly public waters; and we think are within the grant of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction in the Constitution of the United States.
We are the more convinced of the correctness of the rule we
have now laid down, because it is obviously the one adopted by
Congress in 1789 when the government went into operation.
For the 9th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, by which the
first courts of admiralty were established, declares that the district courts "shall have exclusive cognizance of all civil causes
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, including all seizures
under the iaws o impost, navigation, or trade of the United
States, where the seizures are made on waters which are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden, within
their respective districts, as well as upon the high seas."
The jurisdiction is here made to depend upon the navigable
character of the water, and not upon the ebb and flow of the
tide. If the water was navigable it was deemed to be public;
and if public, was regarded as within the legitimate scope of the
admiralty jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution.
It so happened that no seizure was made, and no case calling
for the exercise of admiralty power arose for a long period of
time, upon any navigable water where the tide did not ebb and
flow. As we have before stated, there were no navigable waters
in the United States upon which commerce in the usual acceptation of the word was carried on, except tide-water, until the
valley of the Mississippi was settled and cultivated, and steamboats invented, and no case therefore came before the court during the early period of the government that required it to determine whether this jurisdiction could be extended above tide. It

458

SUPREME

COURT.

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

is perhaps to be regretted that such a case did not arise. For we
are persuaded that if one had occurred and attracted the atention of the court to this point before the English definition had
become the settled mode of describing the juisdiction, and before the courts had been accustomed to adhere strictly to the
English mode of pleading, in which the place is always averred
to be within the ebb and flow of the tide, the definition in the
act of 1789, which is so evidently the correct one, would have
been adopted by the courts, and the difficulty which has now
arisen would not have taken place.
This legislative definition, given at this early period of the
government, is certainly entitled to great consideration. The
same definition is in effect again recognized by Congress by the
passage of the act which we are now considering. We have
therefore the opinion of the legislative department of the government, twice deliberately expressed, upon the subject. These
opinions of course are not binding on the judicial department,
but they are always entitled to high respect. And in this instance we think they are founded in truth and reason; and that
these laws are both constitutional, and ought therefore to be carried into execution. The jurisdiction -under both laws is confined
to vessels enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade; and the
act of 1845 extends only to such vesels when they are engaged
in commerce between different States or territories. It does not
apply to vessels engaged in domestic commerce of a State; nor
to vessels or boats not enrolled and licensed for the coasting
trade under the authority of Congress. And the State courts
within the limits embraced by this law exercise a concurrent
jurisdiction in all cases arising within their respective territories, as broadly and independently as it is exercised by the old
thirteen States, (whose rivers are tide-waters,) and where the
admiralty jurisdiction has been in full force ever iince the adoption of the Constitution.
The case of the Thomas Jefferson did not decide any question
of property, or lay down any rule by which the right of property
should be determined. If it had, we should have felt ourselves
bound'to follow it notwithstanding the opinion we have expressed.
For every one would suppose that after the decision of this court,
in ' matter of that kind, he might safely enter into contracts, upon
the faith that rights thus acquired would not be disturbed. In
such a case, stare decisis is the safe and established rule of judicial policy, and should always be adhered to. For if the law, as
pronounced by the court, ought not to stand, it is in the power of
the legislature to amend it, without impairing rights acquired
under it. But the decisiorn referred to has no relation to rights
of property. It was a question of jurisdiction only, aad the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

459

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

judgment we now give can disturb no rights of property nor
interfere with any contracts heretofore made. The rights of
property and of parties wil be the same by whatever court the
law is administered. And as we are convinced that the former
decision was founded in error, and that the error, if not corrected,
must produce serious public as well as private inconvenience
and loss, it becomes our duty not to perpetuate it.
The principal objection made to the admiralty jurisdiction is
the want of the trial by jury. And it is this feature in the admiralty practice which made it the object of so much jealousy in
England in the time of Lord Coke, and enabled him to succeed
in his efforts to restrict it to very narrow limits. But experiende
in England has proved that a wider range of jurisdiction was
necessary for the benefit of commerce and navigation; and that
they needed courts acting more promptly than courts of common
law, and not entangled with the niceties and strictness of common-law pleadings and proceedings. And during the reign of
the present Queen, the admiralty jurisdiction has been extended
to maritime services and contracts and to torts in navigable
waters, although the place where the service was performed or
the contract made or the tort committed, was within the body
of a county, and within the jurisdiction 6f the courts of common
law. A concurrent jurisdiction is reserved to the last-mentioned
courts, if the party complaining chooses to select that mode of
proceeding. But in the new aind extended jurisdiction of the
English admiralty, the old objection remains, and neither party
is entitled to a trial by jury. The court in its discretion may
send the question of fact to a jury, if it thinks proper to do so.
But the party cannot demand it as a matter of right. Yet the
English people have certainly lost nothing of their attachment
to the trial by jury since the days of Lord Coke. And this
recent and great enlargement of the admiralty power is strong
proof that the war-' of ir has been felt, and that experience has
shown its necezsity where the interests of an extensive commerce
and navigation are concerned.
But the act of Congress of which we are speaking is free from
the objection to which the English statute is liable. Like the
Englislh statute, it saves to the party a concurrent remedy at
common law in any court of the United States or of a State
which may be competent to give it. But it goes farther. It
secures to the parties the trial by jury as a matter of right in the
admiralty courts. Either party may demand it. And it thus
effectually removes the great and leading objection, always heretofw-le made to the admiralty jurisdiction.,
The power'of Congress to change the mode of proceeding in
this respect in its courts of admiralty, will, we suppose, hardly

SUPREME COURT.
The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v.

Fitzhugh et al.

be questioned. The Constitution declares that the judicial power
of the United States shall extend to "all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction." But it does not direct that the court
shall proceed according to ancient and established forms, or
shall adopt any other form or mode of practice. The grant de.
fines the subjects to which the jurisdiction may be extended by
Congress. But the extent of the power z.s well as the mode of
proceeding in -'rhich that jurisdiction is to be exercised, like the
power and practice in all the other courts of the United States,
are subject to the regulation of Congress, except where that
power is limited by the terms of the Constitution, or by necessqxy
implication from its language. In admiralty and maritime cases
there is no such limitation as to the mode of proceeding, and
Congress may therefore in cases of that description, give either
party right of trial by jury, or modify the practice of the court in
any other respect that it deems more conducive to the administration of justice. And in the proceedings under the act of
1845, the right to a trial by jury is undoubtedly secured to either
party if he thinks proper to demand it.
In the case before us, no jury was required by the libellants
or respondents, and the questions of fact as well as of law were
therefore decided by the court.
This brings us to the evidence in the case. And it remains
to inquire whether the collision in question was the result of
inevitable accident, and if not, by whose fault it happened.
Many witnesses, it appears, were examined. And, as almost
invariably happens in cases of this kind, there is a great deal of
contradictory testimony -the men belonging to one boat differing, for the most part, from those in the other. It has been examined with great care in the argument at the bar, and fully
discussed, and we do not deem it necessary, in this opinion, to
go over the whole ground, and compare the relative credit of
the witnesses, or the weight and authority to which they are
severally entitled.
There are some leading facts in the case which, upon the
whole testimony, are free from doubt. The collision took place
in the open lake. It was a starlight night, and although there
was a haze near the surface of the lake, it was not sufficient to
conceal the Cuba from those on board of the propeller. She
had a hght on her bowsprit, and was seen from the steamboat
when she was four or five miles off. And the helmsman of the
propeller states that.it was- at no time so thick as to prevent
him from seeing the light at the distance of half a mile. The
Wind was light, moving the Cuba, which was heavily laden, not
more than two or three miles an hour. The lake was smooth.
The steamboat had the entire command of her course and a

DECE

BER TERM,

1851.

461

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et aL

wide water, by which she might have passed the Cuba on either
side, and at a safe distance. She was going at the rate of eight
miles an hour. And if proper care had been taken on board the
Genesee Chief, after the schooner was first seen, it would seem
to be almost impossible that a collision could have happened
with a vessel moving so slowly and sluggishly through the water, even if she was carelessly or injudiciously managed. There
wa3 no necessity for passing so near to her as to create the
hazard. The steamboat could choose its own distance, and
might have approached her slowly and cautiously, if the intervening mist obscured, the light after she was first discovered, or
occasionally concealed it.
But there is is no evidence of any fault on the part of the
Cuba. She changed her course, it is true, when she was some
miles distant from the propeller. But a vessel close-hauled with
a baffling wind cannot always choose her course, but may be
compelled to change it by a slight change in the wind. And
the captain states that the course was altered because he observed her sails to be shaking, and the change was necessary to
enable her to preserve her headway. And this change was made
when she was distant some miles, and there was ample time for
those on board the propeller to observe it, and ample room to
guard against, it. And the captain and crew of the Cuba appear
to have been watchful and attentive from the time the propeller
was discovered. Nor do we deem it material to inquire whether
the order of the captain at the moment of collision was judicious
or not. He saw the steamboat coming directly upon him; her
speed not diminished; nor any measures taken to avoid a collision. And if i,. the excitement and alarm of the moment, a
different order might have been more fortunate, it was the fault
of the propeller to have placed 'him in a situation where there
was no time for thought; and she is responsible for the consequences. She had the power to have passed at a safer distance,
and had no right to place the schooner in such jeopardy, that the
error of a moment might cause her destruction, and endanger
the lives of those on board. And if an error was committed
under such circumstances it was no+ % fault.
As regards the strength and direction of the wind, the testimony of those on board of the schooner is entitled to much more
weight than the witnesses who were on board the steamboat.
The movements of the latter were independent of the wind.
There was nothing to attract the attention of the captain or
crew to the light land breeze that was then blowing. But the
movements of the Cuba depended upon it, and the attention of
those on board of her was necessarily drawn to it every moment.
And while we see nothing to censure, in the conduct of the

462,

SUPREME COURT.

The.jPropeller Genesee

Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

schooner, there is conclusive evidence of great carelessness on
board of the Genesee Chief.
It is possible that their conduct may in some measure be accolinted for by the fact, that the captain and helmsman made
up their minds, when the light in the Cuba was first seen, that
she was bound up the lake, and they would seem to have acted
upon that opinion up to the moment of the collision. They
may have believed that as they were running on the same course,
and as the helmsman supposed with a four. mile wind, there
could be no danger of a sudden encounter, and that when they
neared her, there would be time enough to change the course of
the steamboat, and pass at a safe distance. It would seem
difficult otherwise to account for the careless manner in which
the light of the. Cuba was observed even by the helmsman, for
he says he saw it at intervals as the vessels were approaching
each other, and lost sight of it for three or four minutes immediately before they came together. Now the light was seen at
the distance of four or five miles in the first instance, and he
states, in his subsequent testimony, that there was not haze
enough on the lake to prevent him from seeing it at the distance
of half a mile. There was, therefore, nothing to prevent him,
when the vessels were within that distance, from seeing it continually if he looked for it, unless he was prevented by the position in which he placed himself in the -wheel-house. And if
the light was hidden by the haze, still, as he knew that a vessel
was ahead and so near, nothing could excuse the rashness of
continuing the steamboat at her full speed, if he supposed the
schooner was meeting him,. and- not running on the same
course.
If this mistake continued until the collision was about to take
place; it would be the strongest proof of negligence, as there was
abundance of time to have discovered their error. But however
this may be, it is evident that there was not a proper look-out
on board of the propeller. By a proper look-out we do not
mean merely persons on deck, who look at the light; but some
one in a favorable position to see, stationed near enough to the
helmsman to communicate with him, and to receive communications from him, and exchlsively employed in watching the
movements of vessels which they are meeting or about to pass.
And it appears that the helmsman saw no one, after he and the
captain first observed the. light of the Cuba, until the vessels
met. The captain had not observed "her near approach, for
when the collision happened he ran to the wheel-house to inquire
what was the matter. And when the steersman, by his own imperfect observation, saw that the danger was imminent, and it
was absolutely necessary that the speed cf the boat should be

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v Fitzhugh et al.

instantly checked, nobody else appears to have seen it, and no
one was near him, and he was forced to leave the wheel at the
most critical moment in order to ring the bell to reverse the engine. The fact that there was no one near him to whom he
could call, and no one but himself that saw the danger, is conclusive evidence of the carelessness with which the Genesee
Chief was proceeding. She was running at her usual speed,
although the captain knew, half an hour before, that there was a
vessel in his path, and caution therefore necessary; and the
more necessary if the haze obscured the light of the schooner, as
some of the witnesses represent.
It is the duty of every steamboat traversing waters where
sailing vessels are often met with, to have a trustworthy and
constant look-out besides the helmsman. It is impossible for
him to steer the vessel and keep the proper watch in his wheelhouse. His position is unfavorable to it, and he cannot safely
leave the wheel to give notice when it becomes necessary to
check suddenly the speed of the boat. And whenever a colision happens with a sailing vessel, and it appears that there was
no other look-out on board the steamboat but the helmsman,
or that such look-out was not stationed in a proper place, or not
actually and vigilantly employed in his duty, it must be regarded as primn2 facie evidence that it was occasioned by her fault.
She has command of her own course and her own speed; and
it is her duty to pass the approaching vessel at such a distance
as to avoid all danger where she has room; and if the water is
narrow, her speed should be checked so as to accomplish the
same purpose. In the present case every proper precaution
seems to have been neglected. No pains were taken to ascertain.the course of the Cuba; there was no ofie upon the lookout but the helmsman, and that duty negligently performed by
him; and in a starlight night, with four or five miles of deep
water on the one side and the open lake on the other, with a
light breeze and smooth surface, she run into and sunk a vessel
that had been seen half an hour before, at a distance of four or
five miles, and which was sailing at the rate of not more than
two or three miles an hour, and doing every thing in her power to
warn those on board the steamboat of her position and her danger. We are satisfied, from the whole testimony, that there was
great and inexcusable carelessness on the part of the propeller,
and that the damages are not higher than the loss requires.
The decree of the Circuit Court must therefore' be affirmed
with costs.
Mr. Justice DANIEL.
From so much of the opinion just announced as claims juris-

SUPREME

COURT.

The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v. Fitzhugh et al.

diction in this case, and especially from the ground (for the
first time assumed in this court) as the principal foundation of
that jurisdiction, I find myself constrained to declare my dissent.
It is not my purpose here to reiterate my views of the extent of
the admiralty powers vested by the Constitution in the courts of
the United States, nor of the sovrces from which those powers
were conceived by the framers of the Constitution to have been
derived. Those views have, on former occasions, been fully developed, particularly in the case of the New Jersey Steam Navigation Co. v. The Merchants Bank, in 6 How. 344, in my concurrence with the opinion of the late Justice Woodbury, in the case
of Waring v. Clark, 5 How. 441, and in my opinion in the case
of Newton v. Stebbins, 10 How. 586.
The decisions of this tribunal heretofore made, will, upon a
correct examination of them, be found to rest the admiralty powers of the federal courts, not solely upon the known and established principles and limitations of the powers and jurisdiction of
the admiralty in England, principles and limitations settled in that
country at the time of the adoption of the federal Constitution,
and rigidly adhered to there until altered by some recent legislative provisions; but they have professed to place those powers upon some supposed enlargement of the admiralty jurisdiction, said to have sprung from the practice of the vice-admiralty
courts in the British colonies; a practice which, whilst it has
been alleged as a justification of each instance in support of
which it has been invoked, no case, no investigation has ever
been able to place upon any clear and indispatable authority.
It is against this undefined and undefinable warrant for the exercise of power that the objections urged by me on former occasions have been levelled. Moreover it has always seemed to me
to imply a palpable contradiction, that there should be ascribed
(and that by mere implication) to the vice-admiralty courts, (the
creatures of the high admiralty) powers which the latter confessedly never possessed. But the doctrine at present promulged
by this court, is based upon assumptions still more irregular in my
view, still more dangerous than that above adverted to, because
it claims for this court, wholly irrespective either of the Constitution or the legislation of Congress, powers to be assumed and
carried into execution by some rule which in the judgment of
this court is to be applied according to its own opinions of convenience or necessity. Thus it is admitted that by the decisions
in England, the jurisdiction of the admiralty did not reach infra
corpus comitatus, and was limited to the ebb and flow of the
tide; and it is admitted that by the previous decisions of this
court the like limitations were imposed on the jurisdiction of the
admiralty in this country; and even this limitation, imposed

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
The Propeller Genesee Chief et al. v.- Fitzhugh et al.

by former decisions of this tribunal, it is obvious, allowed of
some encroachment upon the common-law jurisdiction, in so
far as the ebb and flow of the tide might bring the asserted
power of the court infra fauces terrae, or infra corpus com2nitatus. But even this encroachment is not sufficient to satisfy
the aspirations of the jurisdintic., uw lux Lhu first time asserted;
for now it is insisted that any waters, however they may be
within the body a State or county, are the peculiar province of the
admiralty power; and although it is admitted that the power
was once clearly understood as being limited to the ebb
and flow of the tide, yet now, without '.there having been engrafted any new provision on the Constitution, without the alteration of one letter of that instrument, designed to be the charter of all federal power, the jurisdiction of the admiralty is to be
measured by miles, and by the extent of territory which may
have been subsequently acquired; a much less natural standard
Surely, than the nature and character of the element to which
the admiralty is peculiarly adapted, and to which it owes its origin; that the Constitution may, nay must be altered by the same
process, and must be enlarged not by amendment in the modes
provided, but according to the opinions of the judiciary, entertained upon their views of expediency and necessity. My
opinions may be deemed to be contracted and antiquated, unsuited to the day in which we live; but they are founded upon
deliberate conviction as to the nature and objects of limited government, and by myself at least cannot be disregarded; and I
have at least the consolation - no small one it must be admitted
of the support of Marshall, Kent, and Story in any error I may
have committed. I cannot construe the Constitution either by
mere geographical considerations cannot stretch nor contract itin
order to adapt it to such limits, but must interpret it by my solemn
convictions of the meaning of its terms, and by what is believed
to have been the understanding of those by whom it has been
formed. In the view taken by the court of the evidence in this
case, I entirely concur.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Northern
District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause, be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs and damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

