DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

9

Binns et al. v. Lawrence.

alike as acts of the territorial authorities, and not as the acts of
any State of this Union; and that as such, this court has no
power, by writ of error, to take cognizance of them in virtue of,
and for the objects designated by, the 25th section of theJudiciary Act.
We therefore adjudge that the writ of error in this case be
dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court for the Second Judicial District of
the State of Iowa, and was argued by counsel.-: on consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
this cause be and the same is hereby dismissed for the want of
jurisdiction.

WILLIAx BINNS AND C. STOCKTON HALSTEAD,
CORNELIUS W. LAwRENcE.

PLAINTIFFS, V.

The Tariff Act, passed in 1846, (9 Stat. at Large, p. 44,) enacted duties on glass, as
follow.', viz.
"Sehtldule B. Forty per centum ad valorem, Glass cut.
"Schedule C. Thirty per centum ad valorem, Glass tumblers, plain, moulded, or
"pressed; not cut or punted."
The foifowing classes of tumblers fall within Schedule B, and are chargeable with a
duty of forty per centum, viz.
1. Glass tumblers, the entire surface of the bottom of which had been smuothed by the
.glasseutter or grinder, previous to their importation into the United States.
2. Glass tumblers, on the sides of which ornamental figures had been engraved by the
glasseutter or engraver, previous to their importation into the United States.

Tins cause was brought up from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Southern District of New York, on a certificate of division" in opinion between the judges thereof.
It was an action brought up by the plaintiffs against the Collector of New York for the return of certain duties, paid under
protest, and charged to have been illegally exacted upon the
importation of glass tumblers.
The tariff of 3d August, 1846, (9 Stat. at Large, pp. 44
45, chap. 74,) enacted duties on glass, as follows, viz.:
" Schedule B. Forty per centum ad valorem.
" Glass cut.
" Schedule C. Thirty per centum ad valorem.

AO

SUPREME COURT.
Binns et aL v. Lawrence

"Glass tumblers, plain, moulded, or pressed; not cut or
punted." The demand of the plaintiffs, Binns & Hastead, for alleged
overcharge of duties paid to the collector, was founded on the
importations of glass tumblers of two kinds:
1. Glass tumblers, the entire surface of the bottom of which
had been smoothed by the glasscutter, or grinder, previous to
their importation into the United States.
2. Glass tumblers, on the sides of which ornamental figures
had been engraved by the glasscut'er, or engraver, previous to
theh: importation into the United States.
Upon these tumblers *thecollector charged a duty of forty per
cent. classing them under schedule B. In ten importations this
duty of forty per cent. amounted to $6,695.70, whereas the
plaintiffs alleged that it was $730.20 too much, averring that
the tumblers properly belonged to Schedule C, and to recover
this excess the present action was brought.
Upon the trial the jury found a verdict for the defendant.
But upon the trial the counsel for the plaintiffs excepted to the
charge of the court, which exception was reserved for argument.
Upon which said argument it occurred as a question whether,
according to the true construction of the act of Congress of 30th
July, 1846, entitled, "An act reducing the duty on imports, and
for other purposes," glass tumblers, the bottoms bf which have
been smoothed or flattened by the process of cutting or grinding,
and glass tumblers which have been engraved on the sides by a
similar proc~ss, should be charged with the duty of 40 per centum
ad valorem, under Schedule B of said act, as glass cut," or with
the duty of 30 per centun ad valorem, under Schedule C of said
act, as "glass tumblers, plain, moulded or pressed, not cut or
punted."
On which question the opinions of the judges of the covrt
were olipofed.
Whereupon, on motion of the said plaintiffs, by their counsel,
that the point upon which the disagreement hath happened may,
during the term, be stated under the direction of the judges, and
certified under the seal of this court to the Supreme Court to
be finally decided:
It is ordered, that the following statement of facts, which is
made under the direction of the judges, be certified according to
the request of the said plaintiffs, and the statute in such case
made and provided.
,itatement of Facts.
That the tumblers in question consisted of two kinds, as follows:

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

11

Binns at al. v. Lawrence.

1. Glass tumblers, 'the entire surfacd of the bottoms of which
had been smoothed by the glasscutter, or grinder, previous to
their importation by the plaintifh.
2. Glass tumblers, on the sides of which ornamental figures
had been engraved by the glasseutter or engraver previous to
such importation.
That the tumblers in question, of the first class, are only
known in trade and commerce in the city of New York as "plain
tumblers," or as "plain smooth-bottomed tumblers," or as" plain
tumblers with flattened-bottoms."
That the tumblers in question of the second class are only
known in trade and commerce in said city as "engraved tumblers."
That the tunblers in question (of both classes) are not known
in trade and commerce in said city as 6cut glass."
That all the material witnesses fo-r the plaintiffs were merchants, importing and dealing in glassware.
That all the material witnesses for the defendant were manufacturers of glassware, or glasscutters and grinders.
That the designation "cut glass," as used in trade anct commerce in said city, applies only to tumblers, the sides of which
have been cut or ground, and that the importers of glassware
and dealers in glassware. in said city, do not consider tumblers
of the description in question in this suit as coming within the
designation, and if they received an order from a customer for
"cut glass tumblers," would not regard it as including either
smooth-bottomed or engraved tumblers.
That by the testimony of the manufacturers ana operatives,
glass tumblers are manufactured entirely by the glassblower, or
in part by the glassblower and in part by the glasseutter or
grinder, and that glass-blowing and glass-cutting are distinct
and separate trades, and processes of manufacture.
By the same witnesses. That the bottoms of glass tumblers,
manufactured entirely by the glassblower are rough, particularly
in the centre, being there broken off from the punt or stick on
which made; and that when sold in this condition such tumblers are known -in trade and commerce in the city of New
York as "plain" or " plain rough-bottomed tumblers."
By the same witnesses. That, after their completion by the
glassblower, such rough-bottomed tumblers frequently pass into
the hands of the glasscutter, or grinder, by whom the centre of
the bottoms of tumbleis is cut or smoothed, for the purpose of
removing the particular roughness of that part of the tumb*er,
and that the process of thus .cutting or smoothing the centre of
the bottoms of such tumblers is called punting; and that turn-.
blers manufactired by the glassblower, but the centre part" of

SUPREME COURT.
Binns et al. v. Lawrence.

the bottoms of which have been so-cut or smoothed by the glasscutter, are known in trade and commerce as "punted" tumblers.
By the same witneises. That, after their completion by the
glassblower, such rough-bottomed tumblers frequently pass into
the bands of the glasscutter or grinder, by whom the entire surface of the bottoms of such tumblers is cut or smoothed, and
that tumblers manufactured by the glassblower, but the entire
bottoms of which havo been cut or smoothed by the glasscutter
or grinder, are known in trade and commerce as "plain tumblers," or as "plain smoothed-bottomed tumblers," or as "plain
tumblers with flattened bottoms," and are similar to the tumblers in question of the first class.
By the same witnesses. That tumblers known in trade and
commerce, and amongst manufacturers, as "moulded tumblers,"
or "pressed tumblers," are also made entirely by the glassblower,
and are also rough-bottomed until subjected to the process of
punting, or smoothing and cutting above described.
By the same witnesses. That all cutting of glass is done by
means of grinding upon wheels, and that there is no such thing
as the cutting of glass in the manufacture of " cut glass" in any
other way.
By the same witnesses. That the cutting or smoothing of
the bottoms of the tumblers in question, (of the first class,) is
done by the glasseutter, and that the process of cutting and
smoothing is identical with that of punting, except that it extends to the entire surface'of the bottom of the tumblers, whereas
the " punting" is limited, as above stated, to the centre of the
bottom merely.
By the same witnesses. That the process of "punting," and
the process of "cutting or smoothing" the bottoms of the tumblers in question, are identical in their operation with that of
cutting the sides of tumblers, known in trade and commerce as
"cut glass."
It is proved that the time required to cut or smoothe the bottoms of the tumblers in question, (of the first class,) is four or
five times as long as that required for "punting" the bottoms of
punted tumblers; and that tumblers with the bottoms cut or
smoothed cost from 1S to 22 cents per dozen more than punted
tumblers.
It was proved that the "punted" tumblers are charged with
the duty of 40 per centum ad valorem under the Tariff Act of 1846.
It was proved by the manufacturers and operatives that the
process of engraving the tumblers of the second class is similar
to that of cutting the tumblers of the first class, but is a finer
species of work, requiring more experienced and skilful workmen, and the use of copper'wheels instead of wood and stone
wheels, and oil and emery, instead of sand.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Binns et al. v. Lawrence.

All which we have caused by these presents to be exemplified,
and the seal of the said Circuit Court to be hexeunto affixed.
Witness the Hon. Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, at the city of New York, this
first day of December, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and forty-nine, and of the independence of the
United States the seventy-fourth.
ALEXANDER GARDINER, Clerk.
I, Samuel R. Betts, one of the judges of the Circuit Court of
the United States, for the Southern District of New York, in the
second circuit, do hereby
cerf, that the foregong exemplificaof law.
tion is in due form
SAMUEL

R.

BETTS.

It was argued by Mr. Patten for the plaintiff, and Mr. Crittenden (Attorney-General,) for the defendant.
The points for the plaintiffs were as follows
1. That the tariff laws are to be construed according to the
commetcial sense of the terms used in them. Lee v. Lincoln, 1
Story, 610; U. S. v. 112 Casks Sugar, 8 Pet. 277; Bacon v.
Bancroft, 1 Story, 341; U. S. v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story, 369;
Henry W. Sill et al. v. Cornelius WV. Lawrence, Collector,
MS., before Justice Nelson, U. S. C., New York.
2. That statutes laying restrictions upon trade, or which lay
an excise or tax upon it, are to be construed strictly. Sewall v.
Jones, 9 Pick. 412; and that the court cannot, therefore, look
for the intent of the framers beyond the ordinary and natural
import of the language used.
3. That the words "plain tumblers," in the second clause
upon this subject, in schedule C, are to be taken as used in
commerce. Tariff Laws of July, 1846, p. 4 2; schedule B, (glass
cut," p. 44; schedule C, p. 45, Boston edition; Tariff, 1842,
p. 552, see. 6.
4. That in commerce the tumblers in question are known as
"plain tumblers."
5. That no other tumblers, either in commerce or manufacture, are known simply as plain tumblers. U, S. v. Wigglesworth, 2 Story, 369.
31'r. Crittenden, for the defendant, contended 1. That whether the tumblers in question were or were not
of "glass cut," was a question of fact. Upon that question the
evidence is clear in favor of the verdict.
That tumblers of glass punted are "glass out" is undeniable
upon the evidence of the manufacturers; and upon the same
evidence it is equally clear that tumblers of glaSs with ornaVOL. XIL

2

14'

SUPREME COURT.
Bin ns et a&'.v. Lawrence.

mental~figures engraved on them axe "glass cut," and so both
descriptions of the tumblers, about which the suit was brought,
are within schedule B, and subject to a duty of forty per cent.
ad valorem.
The descriptions, in schedule B, of "glass cut," and in schedule C, of "glass tumblers, plain, moulded, or pressed, not cut
or punted," do not leave room for argument
Both classes of the imported tumblers in question had been
cut, punted, smoothed, and ground by the glasscutter; none of
them were plain and uncut, as they were from the hands of the
glassblower, and therefore cannot be brought to the lower duty
of thirty per cent. ad valorem according to schedule C.
The maxim, " Cuique in sua arte credendum esf," apl3lies to
the evidence of the manufacturers of glass introduced by the
collector.
2. Upon the statements appearing upon the record, there is no
ground for a new trial.
It is not possible to mistify and make intricate the matters of
fact. That the tumblers of glass in question were "glass cut,"
tumblers of glass punted, tumblers with ornamental figures cut
upon them, and not "glass tumblers plain, moulded, or pressed,
not cut or punted," cannot be made more lucid by argument
than .by the testimqny given. Importing merchants cannot
demolish facts, change the qualities and substance of things,
alter the descriptions and meaning of schedules B and C, in the
tariff of 1846, nor evade their efiect by arbitrary names, which
they may think fit to give to things imported by them.
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of -the court.
This was an action brought by the plaintiffs, importers of
glassware, against the defendant as collector of - the port of
New York, to recover a certain amount of money paid under
protest to the defendant as collector, for duties'exacted by him
upon glass tumblers imported by the plaintiffs at the period
set forth in an exhibit filed in the cause, by which are also
shown, the duties charged by and paid to the defendant, and the
amount claimed by the plaintiffs, as having been improperly
exacted; this last amount, consisting in each instance of the
difference between the duty of 40 per centum ad valorem,
charged under schedule B of the Tariff Act of July 30th,.1846,
as on importations of "glass cut," and the duty of 30 per centum ad valorem, at which rate the plaintiffs claimed to enter
their importations of glass above-mentioned, under schedule C
of the same act of Congress, as "glass tunblers plain, moulded,
or pressed, not cut or panted."
The question of law upon the construction of the Statutq

DECEMRER TERM, 1851.
B inns et al. v. Lawrence.

of 1846 upon which the judges differed in opinion, and the
facts of the case out of which that question has grown, cannot
be stated with greater clearness or with more succinctness of
form, than they have been in the certificate from the Circuit
Court.
This cause having been fried before his honor Justice Nelson,
on the 3d of November, 1848, the jury impanelled returned a
verdict for the defendant. The counsel for the plaintiff having
excepted to the charge of the presiding judge on the trial, the
cause was heard upon the exception reserved for the plaintiff,
involving the question whether, according to the true construction of the Act of Congress of 30th of July, 1846, entitled " An
act reducing the duty on imports and for other purposes," glass
tumblers, the bottoms of which have been smoothed or flattened
by the process of cutting or grinding, and glass tumblers which
have been engraved on the si es by a similar process, should be
charged with the duty of 40 per centun ad valorem, under
schedule B of said act, as "glass cut," or with the duty of 30 per
centumn ad valorem, under schedule C of said act, as "glass
tumblers plain, moulded, or pressed, not cut or punted."
On which question the opinion of the judges of the court
were opposed.
Whereupon, on motion of the said plaintiffs by their counsel,
that the point upon which the disagreement hath happened
may, during the term, be stated under the direction of the judges,
and certified under the seal of this court to the Supreme Court
to be finally decided.
It is ordered, that the following statement of facts, which is
made under the direction of the judges, .be certified according
to the request of the said plaintiffs, and the statute in such case
made and provided.
Statement of Facts.
That the tumblers in question consisted of two dnds, as
follows:
1. Glass tumblers, the entire surface of the bottoms of which
had been smoothed by the glasscutter or grinder, previous to
their importation by the plaintiffs.
2.' Glass tumnblers, on the sides of which ornamental figures
had been engraved by the glasscutter or engraver, previous to
such importation.
That the tumblers in question of the first class, are only
known in trade and commerce in the city of New York as
"plain tumblers," or as "plain smooth-bottomed tumblers," or
as ! plain tumblers with flattened bottoms."
That the tumblers in question of the second class, are only

SUPREME COURT.
Binns et al. v. Lawrence.

known in trade and commerce in said city as "engraved tumblers:"
That the"tumblers in question (of both classes) are not known
in trade and commerce in said city as "cut glass."
That all the material witnesses for the plaintiffs were merchants, importing and dealing in glassware.
That all the material witnesses for the defendant were manufacturers of glassware, or glasscutters and grinders.
That the designation "cut glass," as used in 'trade and commerce in said city, applies only to tumblers the sides of which
have been cut or ground, and that ,the importers of glassware
and dealers in glassware in said city, do not consider tumblers
of the description in question in this suit, as coming within the
designation, and if they received an order from a customer for
"cut glass tumblers," would not regard it as including either
smooth-bottomed or engraved tumblers.
That by the testimony of the manufacturers and operatives,
glass tumblers are manufactured entirely by the glassblower,
or in part by the glassblower and in part by the glass-cutter or
grinder, and that glass-blowing and glass-cutting are distinct
and separate trades, and processes of manufacture.
By the same witnesses. That the bottoms of glass tumblers
manufactured entirely by the glassblower, are rough, particularly in the centre, being theie broken off from the punt or stick
on which made; and that when sold in this condition, such
tumblers are known in trade and commerce in the city of New
York as "plain" or "plain rough-bottomed tumblers."
By the same witnesses. That, after their completion by the
glassblower, such rough-bottomed tumblers frequently pass into
the hands of the glasscutter, or grinder, by whom the centie of
the bottoms of such tumblers is cut or smoothed, for the purpose
of removing the particular roughness of that part of the tumbler, and that the process. of thus cutting or smoothing the
centre of the bottoms of such tumblers is called punting; and
that tumblers manufactured by the glassblower, but the centre
part of the bottoms of which have been so cut or smoothed by
the glasscutter, are known in trade and commerce as "punted"
tumblers.
By the same witnesses. That, after their completion by the
glassblower, such rough-bottomed tumblers frequently pass into
the hands of the glasscutter or grinder, by whom the entire
surface of the bottoms of such tumblers is cut or smoothed, and
that tumblers manufactured by the glassblower, but the entire
bottoms of which have been cut or smoothed by the glasscutter
or grinder, are known in trade and commerce as "plain turnblerS," or. as "plain smoothed-bottomed tumblers," or as "plain

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Binns et

17

al. v. Lawrence.

tumblers with flattened bottoms," and are similar to the tumblers in question of the first class.
By the same witnesses. That tumblers known in trade and
commerce, and amongst manufacturers as "moulded tumblers,"
or "pressed tumblers," are also made entirely by the glassblower; and are also rough-bottomed until subjected to the process
of punting, or smoothing and cutting above described.
By the same witnesses. That all cutting of glass is done by
means of grinding upon wheels, and that there is no such thing
as the cutting of glass in the manufacture of "cut glass" in any
other way.
By the same witnesses. That the cutting or smoothing of
the bottoms of the tumblers in question, (of the first class,) is
done by the glasscutter, and that the process of cutting and
smootiang is identical with that of punting, except that it
extends to the entire surface of the bottom of the tumblers,
whereas the " punting" is limited, as above stated, to the centre
of the bottom merely.
By the same witnesses. That the process of "punting," and
the process of "cutting or smoothing "- the bottoms of the tumblers in question, are identical in their operation -with that of
cutting the sides of tumblers, known in trade and commerce as
"cut glass."
It was proved that the time required to cut or smoothe the
bottoms of the tumblers in questiqn, (of the first class,) is four or
five times as long as that required for "punting" the bottoms
of punted tumblers; and that tumblers with the bottoms cut or.
smoothed cost from 18 to 22 cents per dozen more than punted
tumblers.
It was proved that the "punted" tumblers are charged with
the duty of 40 per centur-m ad valorem under the Tariff Act
of 1846.
It was proved by the manufacturers and operatives, that the
process of engraving the tumblers of the second class is similar
to that of cutting the tumblers of the first class, but is a finer
species of work, requiring more experienced and skilful workmen, and the use of copper wheels instead of wood and stone
wheels, and oil and emery instead of sand.
The question referred to this court by the" aforegoing certificate, and the solution of that question, are supposed to lie within
a comparatively narrow compass. In the construction of the
Act of Congress of July 30th, 1846, as in that of every other
statute, one cardinal rule must govern, and it is this; that wherever the will or intention of the lawmaking power is declared
in plain and unequivocal terms, that will or intention must be
followed- absolutely followed. It would not be admissible

18

SUPREME

COURT.

Binns et al. v. Lawrence.

under such circumstances, to attempt a control or modification
of that will, by speculations df policy or by facts or opinions
derived aliunde, as, such a proceeding would in effect operate a
repeal of the positive law, or the abrogation of a superior power,
by what were the just and regular subjects of its operation.
Where a statute may be ambiguous in its language, or may
have reference to facts or conclusions dependent on usage, the
influence of opinion or the proof of established usage may be
proper or even indispensable, in fixing the just interpretation of
the law, but it is only in instances like these last mentioned,
that such a rule of interpretation can be tolerated.
The question presented upon the certificate from the Circuit
Court will be considered, 1st, with reference to the language of
the Tariff Act of July 80th, 1846; and. next upon the import of
the facts proved in the case, upon the hypothesis that those facts
could at all affect the rule of interpretation.
In schedule B, part of the act above-mentioned, laying an
impost of 40 per centum on all articles embraced within it, the
only description of glass mentioned, is that designated as "glass
cut." Its distinguishing characteristic, that brings the article
within 'the I arview of that schedule is, that it be cvt; the figure,
or the extent in which the process of cutting should have been
applied, was nowhere defined by the statute; and it must be
obvious, that any aittmpt to define or describe that which may,
and must indeed be as diverse as the skill, the taste, or the prospect of profit on the part of the manufacturer, would have been
utterly
nugatory. But it could be easily understood, both by
the law-maker
and by others, that the Deauty, the quality, and
the price of glass are heightened by the process of cuting, and
it was equally notorious or susceptible of proof, that the process
of cutting is accomplished by but one species of operation, viz.:
the operation of grinding. It would appear plain then, that all
glass subjected to this one known process, as being enhanced in
value, was designed to fall within the description in the statute
of "glass cut."
The articles of glassware enumerated in schedule C, as being
subject to an impost of 30 per centum, are thus described, viz.:
glass tumblers plain, moulded, or pressed, "not cut or punted."
Upon the language of the description just quoted it would eem
too clear for cavil, that cut orpunted tumblers, cannot be placed in
the same class with those that are enumerated as "tplain,vmoulded, or pressed," but are carefully contradistinguished from these
last denominations. Cut or punted tumblers, therefore, even if
these two terms could be understood as having different significations and were not applicable merely to different degrees of cutting or grinding, do not fall under the lower rate of duty - but all

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

19

Binns et al. v. Lawrence.

cut tumblers, no matter in what part, in what figures, or to what
extent they are cut, and all punted tumblers, were by the act
of Congress of July 30th, 1846, subject to a duty of 40 -per
cent. upon the proper construction of the language of the statute. An effort has been made to control this language, by
introducing the opinions of certain dealers in glass, and of other
persons in the city of New York, to show. that tunblers, the
entire bottom of which are ground or smoothed by the glasscutter, and tumblers the sides of which are wrought and ornamented by the same means, are not considered as cut, but are
held to be the firstplain,and the second e.graved tumblers. The
sum of the argument thus attempted, when tested by common
sense, amounts -to this: That the process of grinding or cutting,
when applied to the entire surface of the bottom of tumblers,
or to the ornamenting of their sides, although it be the identical
process and the only one by which cut glass is manufactured,
is not cutting, but something less; and that the manufacturing
of cut glass, means something else or beyond the only process
by which cut glass is ever made. The integrity or indeed the
intelligibility of this argument, this court are unable to perceive.
It cannot be sustained in opposition to the language of the
statute, in violation of consistency, and against the weight of
the testimony in the cause, upon mere arbitrary and unfounded assumption, or upon opinion entertained within a limited
theatre, and this by persons whose interests are involved in and
would be advanced by that assumption. The weakness of this
assumption is further exposed by recurrence to facts stated by
manufacturers and found in the record, in strict conformity with
which, the distinction made in the statute appears to have been
taken.
Thus it is proved, that tumblers are manufactured either
entirely by the glassblower, or in part by the glassblower, and
in part by the cutter or grinder; and that glass-blowing and
glass-cutting-are distinct and separate trades and processes of
manufacture. It is further shown, in proof, that the bottoms of
tumblers manufactured entirely by the glassblower, are rough
in the centre, being there broken off from the ntt or stick in
which they are made; that. after their completion as far as can
be by the glassblower, they pass into the hands of the cutter
or grinder, by whom the centre of the bottom is cut or smoothed,
and that the process of thus cutting or smoothing the centre of
the bottoms of these tumblers, is called puntivg. Again it is in
proof, that the tumblers, as made by the gassblower, are frequently passed to the cutter or ginder, by whom the entire surface of
the bottom is cut or smoothed; and it is the tumbler, thus cut and
finished by the glasseutter, that is said to be known in the trade in

20

SUPREME COURT.
Binns et al. v. Lawrence.

New York as "the plain tumbler," or as the "plain, smoothedbottomed tumbler." It is also proved, that the cutting and
smoothing the bottom of the tumbler is effected by the identical process which is applied in punting, the only difference
consisting in the fact, that in the former operation it extends
to the entire surface, instead of being limited to the point at
which the tumbler was separated from the punt or stick. "Cut
or punted tumblers are expressly distinguished in the statute from
glass tumblers, plain, moulded, or pressed." Punted tumblers, it
is clearly shown by the facts certified, are made by the operation of cutting or grinding the centre of the bottom; the
smoothing of the entire bottoms of tumblers, is merely the
application of the sanie process to a greater extent; how this
extended application can cause those tumblers subjected to it to
be considered less as cut glass, than if they were merely punted,
or cut at a small point of the bottom, presents a problem not
easy of solution. Could these tumblers, with the entire bottom
or sides cut or ground, be, with any propriety of language,
denominated "plain tumblers," or "plain, smoothed-bottomed
tumblers," they still are not the less "plain tumblers," or "'plain,
smoothed-bottomed tumblers," or "plain tumblers with flattened
bottoms," or "engraved tumblers" so constituted by the operation of cutting or grinding. In this view of the question certified, it is the opinion of this court, that glass tumblers, baving
the entire surface or bottom smoothed or polished, or their sides
figured or ornamented by cutting or grinding, come regularly
within the operation of schedule B of the Tariff Act of July 30th,
1846, and are, within the intent and meaning of that schedule,
subject to a duty of 40 per centum act valoren, as glass cut;
and we order it to be so certified to the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the Southern District of New York.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern
District of New York, and on the point or question on which
the judges of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion,
and which was certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably
to the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, itis the opinion
of this court, that, according to the true construction of the act
of Congress of 30th July, 1846, entitled "An Act reducing the
duty on imports, and for other purposes," glass tumblers, the
bottoms of which have -been smoothed or flattened by the process of cutting or grinding, and glass tumblers which have been

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

21

Smith v. Clark et al

engraved on the sides by a similar process, should be charged
with the duty of 40 per centum ad valorem, under schedule 9
of said act, as cut glass. Whereupon, it is now here ordered
and adjudged by this court that it be so certified to the said
Circuit Court.

FRANCIS 0. J. SMITH, APPELLANT,

V.

JOSEPH W.

CLARK, ET AL.

Where a motion is made to docket and dismiss a case under the 43d rule of this
court, the certificate of the clerk of the court below, upon which the motion is
founded, must state the names of the parties to the suit.

Joseph W. Clark and others.

The names of the "others"

It is not enough to say,

ought to be set forth.

A MOTION Was made by Mr. Woodbury to docket and dismiss
this case under the 43d rule of this court. The case purported
to be an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the District of Massachusetts. The certificate of the clerk of the
Circuit Court is set forth in the order passed by this court, and
to be found at the end of this report. It is, therefore, unnecessary
to repeat it.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the court.
A motion has been made to docket and dismiss this case, under the 43d rule of this court.
The certificate of the clerk states, that, in the Circuit Court of
Mlassachusetts, in a cause depending in ihat court, in which
Francis 0. J. Smith was complainant in equity, and Joseph W.
Clark and others were respondents, a final decree in that court
was made on the 17th of October, 1850, in favor of the said
Joseph W. Clark and others, respondents, from which the said
Francis 0. J. Smith appealed on the same day; and'on the
30th of October filed his appeal-bond with sureties, whereby
execution on the decree was suspended.
The certificate conforms to the rule in all respects but one,
and that is in the statement of the parties. The respondents are
stated to be Joseph W. Clark and others, from which, as well as
from the statement in the motion, it appears that there were
other respondents parties to the suit., who are not named in the
certificate.
The 43d rule provides, that where the party against whom a
judgment or decree is rendered, fails to file the record and docket
the case within the time limited by the rule, the other party may

