DECEMBER TERX0 1851.

165

The Grand Gulf t. R. & Banking Co- et al. v. Marshall.

its date. It was conclusive as against the principal; and equally
conclusive of the fact, that the surety was bound to pay it
to the extent of $2,600. Then this amount was due by the
bond, which could have been at once enforced by suit; and if
the Supreme Court had been vested with power to render judgment against the surety on the appeal-bond, as is the case in
some of the States, no reason would seem to exist, -why the
bond should not bear interest from the date of judgment in the
Supreme Court against the surety as well as against the principal. But as Ives only guaranteed the payment of damages,
and it was a duty imposed on the principal to pay the entire
judgment, the moderate rule has been applidd of requiring interest from the time that demand of payment was made by suit;
a rule now so generally established in similar cases, by State
courts of high authority, that this court could not violate it
without manifest impropriety.
Of course we are dealing with an appeal-bond, and do not
intend to go beyond the case before us. It is, therefore, ordered,
that the judgment rendered by the Circuit Court be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Rhode Island, and was argued by counsel. On con.
sideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs and damages,
at the rate of six per centum per annum.

THE GRAND GULF RAILROAD AND BANKING COMaPANY, AND
ALFRED INGRAHAM AND GEORGE READ,- ASSIGNEES OF SAID
COMPANY, INTERVENORS, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN R.
MARSHALL.
In order to bring a case within the reviewing powyer of this court, is prescribed by the
25th Section of tho Judiciary Act, it is necessary that the record should show that
the point, giving jurisdiction to this court, was raised and decided in the Stato
court.
The preceding decisions upon this subject referred to.
Hence, where it appears from the record that the decision of the State court turned
upon the contructi~u and not the validity of a State law, and that the question
of its validity was not raised, this court has no jurisdiction.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the

SUPREME COURT.
The Grand Gulf R. R. & Banking Co. et al. v. Marshall.

State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the 25th
section of the Judiciary Act.
The facts are set forth in the opinion of the court, to which the
reader is referred.
It was argued by Mr. Strawbride for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Chiet Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana.
The Grand Gulf Railroad "and Banking Company was
chartered by the State of Mississippi in the year 1833. In 1840
an act was passed by the Legislature of that State declaring
that it should not be lawful for any bank in Mississippi to
transfer by indorsement or otherwise any note, bill receivable,
or other debt. And in 1842, after the passage of this act, the
bank having become insolvent and its notes greatly depreciated,
assigned and transferred all of its notes, bills receivable, and
other assets of anyvalue to John Lindsey and Alfred Ingrahami
in trust for the payment of its debts, in the order specified in the
deed.
Some of the debtors of the bank, whose notes and mortgages
were included in this transfer, resided in the State of Louisiana.
And in 1843 John R. Marshall, the defendant in error, being the
holder of the notes of the bank payable to bearer to the amount
of $5,400, obtained an attachment from one of the district courts
of Louisiana against the property and credits of the bank, and
laid it in the hands of these debtors as garnishees. The bank
appeared and answered, and averred that the debts and property
in question had been transferred to the trustees above named
previous to the attachment; and the trustees intervened and
claimed the debts and property as belonging to them by virtue
of the assignment of the bank.
The defendant in error replied that the assignment was null
and void by the laws of Mississippi and the laws of Louisiana,
and that it was without consideration and in fraud of the
creditors.
Testimony was taken on both sides to show the object of the
assignment, and the circumstances under which it was made;
and several questions of law were raised "n the District Court
upon the admissibility of testimony and upon the manner in
which the deed to the trustees had been executed. But it is
unnecessary to state either the testimony or the questions raised
at the trial, b6cause neither the proofs nor the points made can
have any bearing upon the question upon which the case must
be decided in-this court.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

The Grand Gulf.R. R. and Banking Co. et al. v. Marshall.

The District Court gave judgment in favor of the defendant in
error, from which the bardr and trustees appealed to the Supreme Court of the State where the judgment of the District
Court was affirmed. And this writ of error is brought under the
25th section of the act of 1789, to revise that judgment.
The plaintiffs in error claim jurisdiction for this court upon
the ground that the assignment by the bank to the trustees was
adjudged to be void by the State court under the act of the
State of Mississippi of 1840, hereinbefore mentioned; and that
this act is a violation of the charter granted to the bank and
impairs the obligation of the contract which the charter created
between the State and the corporation.
If the record brought that question before us, undoubtedly we
should have jurisdiction, and the judgment of the State court
could not be maintained. For it is the same question which
this court decided in thd case of The Planters Bank of Mississippi v. Sharp, 6 How. 301, and in Baldwin and others v. Payne
and others, 6 How. 332.
But in order to give this court jurisdiction the record must
show, that the point was brought to the attention of 'the State
court and decided by it. It is not sufficient that the point was
in the case, and might have been raised and decided. It must
appear that the validity of the State law was drawn in question'
and the judgment founded upon its validity. This is evidently
the meaning og the 25th section of the act of 1789, which gives
the writ of error. And the reason is obvious. The party is
authorized to bring his case before this court, because a State
court has refused to him a right to which he is entitled under
the Constitution or laws of the United States. But if he omits
to claim it in the State court there is no reason for permitting
him to harass the adverse party by a writ of. error to this court,
when, for any thing that appears in the record the judgment of
the State court might have been in his favor if its attention had
been drawn to the question. The rule upon'this subject is distinctly stated in the case of Armstrong and others v. The- Treasurer of Athens County, 16 Pet. 285, where the court said, that
when the proceeding is under the law of Louisiana it must be
shown that the point arose and wah decided, either by the statement of facts, and the decision" as usually set out in such cases
by the court, or it must be entered on the record of the proceedings in the appellate court, (in cases where the record shows
that such a point may have arisen and been decided,) that it
was in fact raised and decided. In suits at common law the
question is usually presented by the pleadings or by an exception to the opinion of the court.
In the case before us the proceedings were under the Louis-

SUPREME COURT.
Bein et al. v. Heath.

iana law. Andthe opinion of the court, accordingto the practice
in that State, is entered on the record, and sets forth the principles of law upon which the decision was made. And it appears
that the decision turned upon the construction (not the validity) of the. act of Mississippi of 1840; and upon a question of
merely local law, concerning the right by prescription claimed
by the trustees.
Nothing is said in relation to the constitutionality or validity
of this act of Mississippi, and the opinion of the court clearly
shows that no such question was raised or decided.
This writ of error must therefore be dismissed for want of
jurisdiction.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that this cause be, and the
same is hereby, dismissed for the want of jurisdiction.

MARY BEIN, AND RICHARD BEIN, HER HUSBAND, G. S. HAWKINS,
AND JAMES M'MASTERS, E.TAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. MARY HEA&TH.
The proper condition of an injunction-bond is "to answer all damages which the
defendant may sustain in consequence of the injunction being granted."
Where a bond was given in order to obtain an injunction to suspend proceedings
under an order of seizure and sale, and the condition was that the principal and
sureties "would pay to the plaintiff, in the case of seizure and sale, all such damages as he may recover against us, in case it should be decided that the said injunction was wrongfully obtained," this bond was irregular.
It conformed to tie Louisiana practice, by which, if an injunction be dissolved judgment is at once given for the debt, interest, and damages, against the principal and
sureties in the injunction-bond.
Bat the equity practice in the courts of the United States is regulated by the laws of
Congress', and the rules of this court made under the authority of an act of Congress; and- one of those rules is, that, when not otherwise directed, the practice in
the High Court of Chancery, in England, shall be followed.
According to these rules, a court of equity cannot, when it dissolves an injunction,
give judgment, at the same time, against the obligors. It merely orders the dissolution, ldaving the obligee to proceed at law again3t the sureties, if he sustains
damage from the delay occasioned by the injunction.

THis case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louis.
iana.
It was ar action brought by the defendant in error upon an
inunction-bond, and was a consequence of the case of Bein et
. -v. Heath, reported in 6 Howard, 228.

