254

SUPREME COURT.
Bond v. Brown.

in rejecting the testimony which upon the facts in the exception
ought to have been received, the judgment of the Circuit Court
must be reversed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit'Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby reversed, and that this cause be, and
the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with
directions to award a venire facias de novo.

JosHUA B. BOND,

ADMINISTRATOR OF MARY ANN CADE, PLAIN-

TIFF IN ERROR, V. JAMES BROWN.

By the Louisiana practice, if neither party claims a trial by jury, the whole case is
decided by the court; matters of fact as well as of law.
Where, upon such a trial, no testimony is objected to, and it ZQes not appear that any
question of law arose or was decided, and the case i3 brought to this court by
writ of error, the judgment of the court below must be affirmed.
The decision of the court below, upon questions of fac is as conclusive upon this
court as the verdict of a jury would be.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
It was a suit brought by Brown, a citizen of Mississippi,
against Bond, as the administrator of Mary Ann Cade, upon
a bond with a collateral condition, given by one Witherspoon,
for which Mary Ann Cade was responsible.
The petition set out the bond and the breaches. The defendant answered, denying some of the material facts stated in the
petition, and alleging other facts, which, if proved, were sufficient to bar a recovery. Neither party claimed a trial by jury;
and, according to the Louisiana code of practice, articles 494.
495, the whole case was submitted to the judge.
In February, 1849, the cause -came on for trial, and, after
argument, the court pronounced t6e following judgment:
"JAMES BROWN

,1

v.
1596,
J.B. Bom, Adm'r &c.f
"This cause having been argued and siiamitted to the.cour

DECEMBER

TERM,

1851.

255

Bond v. Brown.

on a former day, on the pleadings, law, and evidence, and the
court having maturely considered the same, and being fully advised in the premises, and satisfied that the plaintiff has fully substantiated the allegations in his petition, it is ordered, adjudged,
and decreed, that judgment be rendered in favor of the plaintiff,
James Brown, and against the defendant, Joshua B. Bond, administrator of the estate of Mary Ann Cade, widow of Elias
AT. Witherspoon, for the sum of fourteen thousand dollars, with
interest thereon, at the rate of five per centum per annum, from
the eleventh day of January, in the year eighteen hundred and
thirty-seven, until paid; and costs of suit to be taxed.
"Judgment rendered 13th June, 1849.
"Judgment signed 18th June, 1849.
"THEo. H. MCCALEB, [Seal.]
U.B. Jhudge."
The defendant sued out a writ of error, and brought the case
up to this court.
It was argued by 11/r. Harr,for the defendant in error, no
counsel appearing for the plaintiff in error.
1J;',ilfarr contended that, according to the pleadings, the judgment of the court was equivalent to a general judgment for the
plaintiff There was no objection in any form'to any portion of the testimony offered on the trial, no bill of exceptions
taken, no motion for a new trial, no case stated by argument of
counsel. It is not the province of this court to determine questions of fact, merely as such, on a writ of error. It must legally
presume that the allegations of the petition were proven by suicient and competent testimony; and the decision of the Circuit Court, to this effect, is as conclusive upon this court as if
the facts stated in the petition had been found to be true by the
verdict of a jury; 5 How. 289; 7 How. 846; and the author.
ities cited by Mr. Justice Wayne, 7 How. 865.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
The record in this case is voluminous; but a very brief 9tate.
ment will show the grounds upon which it is decided ii this
court.
The suit was brought by the defendant in error in the Cirouit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, upon a bond with a collateral condition. The breaches
for which he sued are set out in the petition. The plaintiff in
error answered, denying some of the material facts stated in the

SUPREME COURT.
Dundas et al. v. Hitchcock.

petition, and alleging other facts, which, if supported by testimony, were sufficient to bar the recovery.
Upon these issues the parties proceeded in the ease, and evidence on both sides was offered, which is stated at large in the
record. And, as neither party demanded a jury, the fact as well
as the law was, according to the Louisiana practice, submitted
to the court.
The plaintiff in error has not presented any argument in this
court, nor assigned any particular error of which he complains.
None of the testimony on either side appears to have been objected to in the Circuit Court. Nor does it appear, from the
pleadings, or by exception, or by the opinion of the court, that
any question of law arose or was decided in the case. On the
contrary the opinion of the court, inserted in the record, according to -the Louisiana practice, states that, being satisfied that
the defendant in error had fully substantiated the allegations in
his petition, the court proceeded to give judgment in his favor.
The language of the opinion, when taken in connection with
the pleadings and issuet, implies that the case turned upon the
comparative weight of the testimony; upon the fact, and not
upon the law. And, whether the fact was rightly decided or
not, according to the evidence, is not open to inquiry in this
court. The decision of the court below, in this respect, is as
here
conclusive as the verdic t of a jury when the case is brought
by writ of error. And, as no error in law appears in the record, the judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereb-, affirmed, with costs and damages, at
the rate of six per cent. per annum.

JAMES DUNDAS, MORDEdAI D. LEWIs, SAMUEL W. JONES, ROBERT L. PITTFIELD, AND ROBERT HOWELL, APPELLANTS, V.

ANNE HITCfiCOCx.
When a mortgage wes executed by a husband, his own name only being used in the
body of the instrument, but it was signed by his wife also, who re1inquished her

