DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

343

Now Orleans Canal & Banking Co. v. Stafford et al.

tween the parties, holds them subject to their respective rights.
The Canal Bank, though not formally made a party to this bill,
is in court claiming its rights through Thomas. The court have
therefore before them all the parties claiming any beneficial interest in these slaves, and before they distribute the proceeds of
the mortgaged property, can compel the parties interested either
to settle their respective claims amicably, or by action, or interpleader, and thus make a final decision binding on all the parties who have any claim to the property.
The decision of the District Court dismissing the bill for want
of proper parties must therefore be reversed, and the record remitted to the court below, with directions to enter a decree in
favor of the complainants, and have such fither proceeding as
to justice and equity may appertain.
Order.
This causecame on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the District of
Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it
is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said District Court in this cause be, and the
same is hereby reversed with costs; and that this cause be, and
the same is-hereby remanded to the said District Court, with directions to that court to enter a decree in favor of the complainant,
and for such further proceedings to be had therein as to law and
justice may appertain.

NEw ORLEANS CANAL AND BANKING COMPANY, AP.PELLANTS, V.

JOSIAH S. STAFFORD AND JENANETTA KIRKLAND, HIS WIFE.
The principles established in the preceding case of the Union Bank of Louisiana,
against Stafford and wife, again affirmed.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Texas.
Although the complainants were not the same as in the preceding case of the Union Bank of Louisiana v. Stafford and
Wife, yet the respondents were the same and the subject-matter
was a breach of the same transaction. The only difference is
stated fully in the opinion of the court; and by agreement of
parties the two cases were consolidated in the court below and
to be argued together.
It was argued by 111r. Crittenden, (Attorney-General) for the
appellants, and M3r. Harrisfor the appellees.

844

SUPREME

COURT.

New Orleans Canal and Banking Co. v. Stafford et al.

1M1r. Grittenden contended,
1. That the court below erred in dismissing the bill for the want
of proper parties, and cited 6 Wheat. 559; 10 Wheat. 167; 11
Wheat. 133, 134. Act of Congress, 28 Feb. 1839; 5 Stat. at
Large, 321, sect. 1.
2. That there was no proof of Mrs. 6tafford's minority, and
if there were, that she afterwards confirmed the mortgage.
3. That there was no proof of her matrimonial or dotal rights
or their amount.
4. That the statute of limitations could not apply. No court
of equity would sanction a fraudulent removal of the property
with a view to found a place of limitations upon it. 2 Story's
Eq. 188, ch. 23, sect. 903. Eden on Injunctions, ch. 16, pp. 349,
350.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The New Orleans Canal and Banking Company filed their
bill in the District Court of the United States for Texas against
Josiah S. Stafford and wife, setting forth that the bank by an
act of contract of sale and mortgage made on the 12th of July,
1844; in the parish of Rapides and State of Louisiana, sold to Willliam Mainer Stafford thirty-three negro slaves, which the bank
had purchased at a sheriffs sale of the property of Isaac Thomas,
at the suit of Adelia E. Flint. By this act of sale and mortgage,
Wiliam li. Stafford covenanted to pay, as the price of the slaves,
the sum of $12,853, with interest in eight annual instalments.
That in addition to the vendor's privilege reserved on the slaves
sold, William M. Stafford further mortgaged his interest in some
other slaves which said Stafford had purchased on the 6th of November, 1843, at a sheriff's sale at the suit of the Union Bank of
Louisiana. That Stafford agreed that in case any of the instalments wcre'not paid when they severally became due, then the
bank might obtain an order of seizure and sale, (or judgment in
the ordinary way at their option) and sell the mortgaged premises
to the highest bidder without benefit of appraisement. That the
respondents, with full notice of this act of sale and mortgage and
of the claims of the complainant, fraudulently removed and
transported all the slaves to Texas, and now hold and detain them, and endeavor to scatter and secrete them, for the purpo-3e of evading the just claims of complainant. That the slaves
are now in possession of the court by a receiver in a certain suit
pending between the Union Bank of Louisiana and the respondents. That four of the notes secured by complainant's mortgage are due and payable, and remain unpaid. That William
M.Stafford has no property in Louisiana; that he resides ih the
State of Louisiana and without the jurisdiction of the court, and
cannot therefore be made a party to the bill.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1851.

845

New Orleans Canal and Banking Co. v. Stafford et al.

This bill was taken pro confesso against the husband. The
wife filed an answer in which she admits the contract of sale
and mortgage between the bank and William M. Stafford, but
alleges a purchase of them by James A. M'Waters, who holds
them by a deed of trust for her ceparate use. She claims that
she is aferne covert, and that by the laws of Louisiana she has
a lien upon all the slaves in the bill mentioned for the security
of her matrimonial, dotal, and paraphernal rights, to the amount
of $66,000. She admits the slaves were all brought to Texas
except five, four of whom are dead, and that the others are now
in possession or ordered to be delivered to a receiver appointed
by the court at the suit of the Union Bank of Louisiana, and prays
that the bill may be dismissed, because William M. Stafford,
James A. HrWaters, and the Union Bank are not made parties
to the bill.
To meet the allegation of matrimonial, dotal, and paraphernal
rights, the complainants amended their bill and gave in evidence
a mortgage by respondents, duly acknowledged to bar the rights
of the wife, dated 11th May, 1836 ; and including the thirty-three
slaves now in question, with some others. Also, that an order of
seizure and sale of forty-five neg-roes, including these thirty-three,
was regularly issued, and the slaves sold to General Isaac
Thomas on the 8th of August, 1840.
That on the 15th of September, 1840, Thomas mortgaged
them again to the bank to secure the payment of ten thousand
dollars. That in November, 1842, Adelia E. Flint, by execution
on a judgment which had a lien on the property of Thomas anterior to the mortgage of the bank, sold at sheriff's sale thirtythree of said negroes, which were purchased and paid for by the
Canal Bank in 1844.
The amended answer of the wife sets up the defence, that
she was a minor in 1836, and therefore the first mortgage to the
bank was not valid to bind or affect her rights; she pleads, also,
the statute of limitation of two years, averring that, since the
slaves were brought to Texas, she has held them adversely to
the claim of the mortgagee. But there is no evidence on the
record to show that she was a minor in 1836, or that William M.
Stafford sold the sla. es in question to M'Waters, or that
M'Waters had any ti:le to theni whatever. That the slaves
were carried to Texas by respondent's husband clandestinely, -to
avoid the pursuit of creditors, is also satisfactorily proved.
The defences made on the argument in this court were:1. The minority of the plaintiff.
This was an allegation of the answer not responsive to the
bill, and there was no proof to substantiate it.
The statement of a witness, in his cross-examination, that he

846

SUPREME
New

COURT.

Orleans Canal & Banking Co. v.

Stafford et al.

heard Stafford say his wife was not of age in 1836, was not
responsive to any question proposed to him by the respondents,
and is no evidence of the fact.
2. The charter of the Canal Bank, complainant, has a section
in the same words with that which we have noticed in the opinion just delivered in the case of the Union Bank; and what
we have said in that case, as to the power of the wife to join
her husband in such securities to the bank, equally applies to
the present case, and need not be repeated.
3. The plea of the statute of limitations has also been disposed of in the preceding case.
4. What was said in the previous case, as to the propriety of
dismissing the bill for want of proper parties, equally applies to
this.
The forty-five slaves sold to Thomas, including the thirty-three
now in question, were never taken from the possession of respondents; and, though Thomas proves that he offered a reward
of $500, he was unable to get information by which to distinguish or sever them from the other slaves in possession of iespondents. Hence we see the reasons for these transfers to
William M. Stafford, the younger brother of respondents, who was
without means to pay; and the very'liberal terms given by the
bank were evidently for the purpose of favoring the defendants,
and leaving the slaves in their possession.' We cannot shut our
eyes also to the fact that respondents wera the real actors and
persons interested in all these manifold and complicated mortgages, sales, and transfers, which all seemed to have but one
result, to wit, that the respondents kppt possession of the slaves,
and never paid their debts. And having clandestinely carried
them away and attempted to scatter and conceal them from the
pursuit of their creditors, it would be a reproach to a court of
equity, if it could be truly said that it was unable to afford the
complainants a remedy because the nominal and insolvent obligee in the mortgage lived in a different State from those Ny-ho, in
combination with him, have transported tlIP mortgaged: property
within the bounds of a different jhriscrinti6n.
The difficulty arising from the conflicting f laims of the Union
Bank can be settled by-the court, as we have already shown in
our opinion in that case. In fact, this bill is itself in the nature
of an intervention, setting up the claim of complainants to property already in possession of the court. And the court have
it fully in their power to compel the banks to interplead with
one another as to the priority of their lie-n or rights to the property or its proceeds; as each of them has shown a right to a
decree as against the title of the respondents, they will be indifferent as to the result, unless the property shall produce more
than sufficient to pay both mortgages.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

347

Rich et al. v. Lambert et al.

The decree of the District Court is therefore reversed, and the
-record remitted with directions to enter a decree in favor of complainant, and cause such other proceedings as to justice and

equity may appertain.
Order
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the District of Texas, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed with costs; and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said District Court,
with directions to that court to enter a decree in -favor of the
complainant, and for such further proceedings to be had therein
as to law and justice may appertain.

ABRAHAM

RICH AND JAMES HARRIS, CLAIMANTS QF THE SHIP
MARTHA, HER TACKLE, APPAREL, AND FURNITURE, APPELLANT,

V.

CHARLES LABIBERT AND ROBERT LAMBERT, COPARTNXRS,
TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF LAMBERT AND BROTHER, AND
OTHERS.

SADIE V. SOUTH CAROLINA RAILROAD COMPANY.

Where several owners of a cargo filed libels in rem against the vessel for damages
done to the goods, and these libels were consolidated by order of the court, which
afterwards decreed damages in favor of the libellants, in some eases to more and in
some to less than $2,000, those eases where the.damages are less than that sun
must be dismissed, on an appeal to this ecurt, for want of jurisdiction.
Where further evidence was taken after the appeal to this court was entered, under the
authority of an act of Congress passed in 1803, (2 Stat. at Large, 244,) the issuing of
the commission by the clerk of the Circuit Court, and the uniting by both parties
in its execution, turnish a presumption that the proper order was given. f-not,
the parties have waived all objeftion.
Where goods on board of a ship received a damage which must necessarily have ae.
crued during the voyage, the oaus prbrandi is upon the master and owners to show
that it was occasioned by one of the perils of navigation within the exception of
the bill of lading.
The master i3 not to blame for bringing sacks of salt between decks, if it be well
stowed and packed, and secured with proper dnnnage. The usage of trade is to
carry salt in that way.
The evidence in the present case shows that the damage was caused by the perils of
navigation.
THESE twO

cases were included in the same judgment of the

Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South
Carolina, and were argued together in this court, upon an appeal from that judgment.

