SUPREME COURT.
Neilson v. Lagt'y et al.

-NEILSON,

STATES) PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V.
H. LAGOW, AND ELIZABETH S.
LAGow, CHILDREN AND DEViSEES OF WILSON LAGOW, DECEASED.

HALL

CLARK

B.

(UNITED

LAGOWv, DAVID

The act of Congress, passed on 1st May, 1820, (3 Stat. at Large, 568,) enacts, "That
no land shall be purchased on account of the United States, except under a law
authorizing such purchase."
Where land was conveyed to trustees, for the purpose of paving a debt due to the
United States, and the highest court of a State decided against a title set up under
that deed, upon the ground that the deed was in violrtion of the act of Congress,
this court has jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, to
review that decision.
The deed to the trustees being an authority to sell so much of the land as might be
necessary to pay the debt, this was not such a purchase as is forbidden by the
statute. Nor does the act of Congress prohibit the acquisition, directly, by the
United States, of the legal title to land, when it is taken by way of security for a
debt.
"Where the trustees purchased, and paid for out of mc.ney belonging to the United
States, the equitable title, where the legal title to the land bad been previously conveyed to them. the acquisition of this equitable title was nothing more than relieving the land of an incumbrance, and was not such a purchase as was forbidden by the
statute.
Where the gro inds of the decision of the Supreme Court of the State are not stated
in the recor( , this court will look into the bill of exceptions taken in the court of
original jurisdiction, to see what points were carried tp to the Supreme Court, and
whether they were necessarily involved in the judgment of the Supreme Court.
A deed to trustees and their successors in trust to sell and convey a fee-simple absolute, vested such an estate in them without the insertion of the word "heirs " in'the
deed.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Indiana,

by a -rit of error issued under the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act. It originally stood in the name of Wilson Lagow, the
ancestor of the present defendants in error.

The point involved was the construction of the act of Con-

gress, passed on the 1st lay, 1820, (3 Stat. at Large, 568,) which
forbids land from being purchased on account of the United
States except under a law authorizing such purchase.
At a preceding term of this court a motion was made to dismiss the case for want of jurisdiction, which is reported in
7 How. 772. A brief history of the case is there given; and a
more particular one is given in the present opinion of the court,
which renders any further statement by the Reporter unnecessary.
It -was argued by 111r. Gillet and 1fr. Crittenden, (AttorneyGeneral,) for the plaintiff in error, and AIr. Izdah for the defendant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error contended, that the
exl osition of the statute, given by the court, if true, renders null the security given by, the bank for the debt of
$120,308, and interest due to the United States; renders null

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Neilson

v.

Lagow et al.

all other. securities taken for the benefit of the United States
upon lands, in any form or manner, from their debtors for thirty
years last past; and until after that statute of May 1st, 1820, shall
be modified or repealed, it annuls the titles of all purchasers of
lands under securities given to the United States within that
period by their debtors ; for the instruction, says the act of
Congress, "means any and every mode of acquiring an interest
in real estate other than by inheritance;" "and the interest
which the bank then had in the land remained in the bank."
This construction, applied to the facts of the case, has extended a disabling effect of the act of Congress to the uttermost;
has strained the disability to a mischievous end, not within the
reason, meaning, and intent of the act; has misconceived the
purpose of the statute; has overlooked the settled distinctions
between legal titles and requisites, between titles to lands and
securities for money, or for the performance of an act deemed
valuable in law; it has overturned the established principles respecting deeds of trust executed to assure the payment of
money; in fine, it has perverted a statute made to prevent the
Secretaries of the Trc sury, War, and Navy Departments, from
diverting the moneys appropriated from the objects of appropriation, from spending the public money, and running the government in debt on account of purchase of lands, into a statute to
inhibit them from securing and collecting debts due to the
United States.
By the deed of trust the trustees had a discretion to demise
and lease the whole or any part of the said lands, lots, and
houses, until such time or times as a sale or sales thereof could
be made, and receive and take the rents and profits; "also to
foreclose the said mortgage and collect the said notes," (to wit,
the notes of Willis Felows, of $7,000, for the purchase of the
square lot surrounded by streets, and the mortgage on the
square lot to secure the purchase-money, which notes and mortgage were assigned by the deed of trust to the trustees, and the
subject of the decree of sale, and sale and deed to the trustees,
given in evidence by Neilson;) they had a discretion vested in
them, or a majority of them, as to the sales to be made, "for
cash,.or on credit," "on such terms, and in such parts and parcels, as to thlem shall seem most advantageous," "retaining
thereout, however, their, the said trustees', expenditures, and a
reasonable compensation for their trouble and services," aid,
after paying the debt and interest due by the bank to the United
States, to return the surplus to the bank, and also all such parts
of the said lands and premises, either in fee or in mortgage, as
shall remain unsold," &c. pp. 10, 11, 12. Such being the
terms of the deed, the land must remain in the trustees to enable

SUPREME COURT.
Neilson v. Lagow et al.

them to perform the trust. Therefore, the statute of uses, or
statute for transferring uses into possession, did not operate so
as to transfer the land, or the title, or the possession, to the
cestui que vse, or eestui que trust, the United States. 2 Black.
Com. ch. 20, p. 336.
Upon the deed of trust it is palpable that the United States
are not the purchasers of the land, the title is not in them, nor.
the possession; all that the§ have a right to is the money arising
out of the rents, issues, and profits, and sales, when made by
the trustees; the money, to the sum of the debt and interest
due from the bank, as mentioned in the deed of trust, was all
that the United States had a right to demand and have from the
trustees; all that the United States could rightfully demand and
enforce in a court of equity, with costs of suit. The land itself
the United States could not rightfully demand and have, either
by a suit at law or in equity, nor the possession of the land.
The deed of trust was but a security for money, not a sale and
purchase of the land between the bank and the United States.
That the defendant, Neilson, was subjected to the action of
Lagow, and to judgment of eviction from the land, and mulcted
in costs, was induced solely by the erroneous construction of
the statute given by the court. From such a suit, such a judgment, and such costs, the defendant, Neilson, had the right and
privilege to be exempted; he claimed his right, privilege, and
exemption, but was deprived of them by the erroneous construc.
tion of the statute as contained in the bill of exceptions taken
in the Circuit Court. The errors assigned in the Supreme
Court of Indiana brought up for review the construction of the
statute as contained in the bill of exceptions. The Supreme
Court of Indiana affirmed the judgment of the Knox Circuit
Court in all things.
Upon the jurisdiction of this court to revise the decision of
the Supreme Court of Indiana, as being a case properly within
the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, it is sufficient to cite the
cases of Crowell v. Randell, and Shoemaker v. Randell, 10
Peters, 391 to 399, in which fourteen previous cases upon this
25th section are noticed, and the doctrine is reaffirmed: "That
it is not necessary that the question should appear on the record
to have been raised in direct and positive terms ipsissirnisverbis,
but it is sufficient if it appears, by clear and necessary intendment, that the question must have been raised and must have
been decided in order to have induced the judgment."
No such verdict and judgment could have been rendered
against the defendant, Neilson, in the Knox Circuit Court if it
had not been induced by the erroneous exposition of the statute
of May 1, 1820, given by the Circuit Court; and the affirmance

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

101

Neilson v. Lagow et al.

in the Supreme Court of Indiana clearly and necessarily decides
that question raised by the assignment of errors, and affirms
that erroneous exposition of the statute of the United States.
11tr. Judah, for the defendants in error. The question is,
Had the bank any interest in the premises after executing the
deed of the 1st July, 1822, to the trustees ?
And this question resolves itself into these:
1. Was that deed valid?
2. If that deed was valid, did it convey the whole interest of
the bank?
1. We assert that the deed was void by virtue of the seventh
section of the act of Congress of the 1st May, 1820, in relation
to the Treasury, War, and Navy Departments. That section is
That no land shall be purchased on account of
as follows -"
the United States, except under a law authorizing such purchase."
That this law was understood by the proper officers at Washington to be in force in 1822, and so late as 1824, is proven by a
letter of MIr. Pleasanton, then Agent of the Treasury, to the
House of Representatives, 8th March, 1824, and printed in the
American State Papers. Public Lands, vol. 3, 563. And this,
too, is shown by the act of May 26th, 1824, which gives to the
officers of the Treasury a limited power to purchase on execution.
It is decided that the United States may "enter into contracts
not prohibited by law." United States v. Tingey, 5 Peters,
115, 128; United States v. Bradley, 10 Peters, 343, 359. But
where, in the bond or deed, there is a condition or grant which
is prohibited, that is illegal and void. United States v. Bradley,If 10
it Peters,
is said 363.
that the interposition of trustees will take this
case out of the statute, we reply,
1. That such a contrivance would be a fraud on the statute.
Coke's rule is as follows: - Quando aliquid prohibetur fieri ex
directo, proibetur et per obliquuni. Co.'Lit. 223, b; and see 2
Term Rep. 251-2, quotations from Lord Northington; and Doe
v. Carter, 8 T. R.'800.
2. We assert that, by the deed from the bank, only a life
estate was conveyed to Badollett, Harrison, and Buntin.
Indiana is a common law State. In its courts the distinction
between the jurisdiction at law and that in equity is strictly preserved. The present is a common law action, and the question
is as to the legal title. The words in the deed, "and their successors," are mere surplusage, not sufficient to pass a fee-simple.
Clearwater v. Rose, I Blackf. 137; Roberts v. Forsythe, 3 Dev.
26; 4 Cruise, Dig. 335, 366.

102

SUPREME COURT.
Neilson v. Lagow at al.

A grant to a natural person and his successors, passes only an
estate for life. Co. Lit. 9, v. And 'hence, if the deed is void,
the title remained in the bank, and, on its forfeiture, reverted to
the Steam-Mill Company, and passed to Lagow. If the deed is
valid, but oply passed a life estate, the reversion in fee remained
in the bank, reverted to the Steam-Mill Company, and passed to
Lagow, and, on the determination of the life estate by the deaths
of the grantees, took effect in possession. In either case Lagow
has the legal estate, and is entitled to recover at law. If the
law, on either of the above positions, is with the defendants in
error, we presume this court will decide in their favor. But there
is another view of the case'which the counsel for the defendant
in error is unwilling to abandon.
The Supreme Court of Indiana were required to determine
whether a new trial should have been granted, and that depended
on the question whether, on the whole case, the verdict was right.
This required the solution of one, or of two questions. If the
deed only conveyed a life estate, and the grantees were dead, it
was not material whether the deed was valid or invalid. We
deny that there is any thing in this record to show that the
court did determine the validity of the deed. It is true that there
are instructions on the record in which this question is made,
but it is as true that there are on the record the facts from which
the other question does necessarily arise. Both questions might
have been determined; but it is usual for appellate courts to pass
over questions not necessary for the determination of the case
before them. And hence we ask, Is it a "necessary intendment" that the Supreme Court of Indiana did decide both the
questions in this case? For we understand that it must appear
to this court, if not expressly, by "necessary intendment," that
some question within the jurisdiction of this court did arise and
was decided; that it is not enough that such question might
have arisen and might have been decided. Smith v. Hunter, 7
How. 738, 742; 16 Pet. 281, 285; 10 Id. 368, 391.
Mr. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes here by a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State of Indiana. The record shows that Lagow, the
defendant in error, instituted an action of disseisin in a Circuit
Court of the State of Indiana, whereby he sought to recover of
Neilson, the plaintiff in error, a tract of lond described in the
counts. The tenant having pleaded the general issue, the case
was committed to a jury. At the trial, it appeared that Lagow,
together with Nathaniel Ewing, John D. Hay, and Caroline
Smith, whose title, if any, Lagow is alleged to have afterward.
acquired, were in possession of the demanded premises in the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

103

Neilson v. Lagow et al.

year 1820, claiming to own the same, and upon this evidence
of title he rested his case. The defendant then introduced
a deed, bearing date September 19th, 1821, from Lagow, Ewing,
Hay, and Smith, conveying to the Bank of Vincennes, the State
Bank of Indiana, the lands in controversy, excepting a certain
square therein described. He also put in evidence another deed
from the bank to Badollett, Harrison, and Buntin, conveying the
same lands acquired by the bank under the deed last mentioned,
and also transferring to the grantees some equitable title to the
square excepted out of that deed. This conveyance is made to
the grantees and their successors in the trusts declared by the
deed, which are: "until the sale hereinafter authorized shall be
made, the trustees, or a majority of them, or their successor or successors herein appointed, orwho may hereafter be appointed agreeably to the mode hereinafter directed, shall and may demise or lease
the whole or any part of the said lands, lots, and houses, until such
time or times as a sale or sales thereof can be made, and receive
and take the rents and profits thereof, also foreclose the said mortgages and collect the said notes; in trust nevertheless, for the use
of the Secretary.of the Treasury of the United States in extingishment of the debt due by the said Bank of Vincennes tq the
United States; and upon this further trust and confidence that
the said trustees, or a majority of them, and their survivor
or survivors herein appointed, or which shall hereafter be appointed, agreeably to the mode hereinafter directed, shall and do,
whenever thereto requested by the .Secretary of the Treasury of
the United States, for the best price that can be got, sell and
dispose of, for cash or on credit, on such terms, and in such parts
or parcels, as to them shall seem most advantageous, all or any
part of the above-described and conveyed lands, tenements, and
hereditaments, to any person or persons who may be inclined to
purchase the same; and to execute and to acknowledge, in due
form of law, deed or deeds of conveyance, unto the purchaser or
purchasers, his heir or their heirs and .assigns in fee-simple absolute and upon the further trust that they, the said trustees, or
a majoritv of them, or the survivors of them herein appointed,
or hereafter to bo appointed agreeably to the mode hereinafter
directed, shall and do pay and apply, of and every the sum and
sums of money or other proceeds to be raised or paid by the
rents or sales of the said lands and collections of the said notes,
or any.part or parts thereof, to the proper use of the United
States, until the sum of one hundred and twenty thousand three
hundred and eight dollars, which is now agreed upon by the said
parties of the first part, of the one part; and the Honorable
Jesse B. Thomas, as the legally authorized agent of the United
States, of the other part, as the sum now due, together with in-

SUPREME COURT.
Neilson v. Lagow et al.

terest on the said sum of money, at the rate of six per centum
per annum until paid; retaining thereout, however, their, the
said trustees', expenditures, and a reasonable compensation for
their trouble and services, returningand paying the overplus, if
any, to the said President, Directors, and Company of the said
Bank of Vincennes, their successors or assignees ; and also upon
this further trust, as to all such parts of the said lands and pre.
mises, either in fee' or under mortgage, as shall remain unsold,
that they, the said trustees, and their successors, shall stand
seized thereof to the use of the United States, until the debt
aforesaid shall be fully paid and discharged, and there afterwards
to the use of the said President, Directors, and Company, their
successors and-assigns forever, provided always, and it is hereby
expressly agreed and declared by and between the parties of these
presents, that in case of the death of either or any one or more of the
said trustees hereinbefore named, or of any trustees hereafter to be
appointed, it shall and may be lawful, to and for the said Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for the time being,
at any time or times thereafter, by deed duly executed, to
fill up such vacancies; and the said, trustees, when so appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury as aforesaid, shall all
of them have the like power and authority to act in the several
trusts according to the true intent and meaning of these presents,
as fully and amply, to all intents and purposes, as if such new
or other trustee or trustees had been *actuallynamed herein by
the said President, Directors, and Company of the said Bank of
Vincennes; and piovided, also, that no trustee now appointed, or
to be hereafter named and appointed as above directed, shall in
any event be liable for any more than he shall receive, nor for
any loss or damage not occasioned wilfully and designedly by
such trustee, or through his gross and wi2Thl nealigence."
Neither the habendum nor the grant in this 'iced contains the
word heirs.
The tenant further offered in evidence, proceedings under a
judicial sale of the title to the excepted square above mentioned,
by which-Badollett, Harrison, and Buntin, the trustees under the
deed of the bank, became the purchasers of the legal title to
that square, which was conveyed to them in fee-simple in 1827,
and also introduced evidence to show that he was in possession
under the trustees with a contract to purchase of them the entire
tract of land demanded.
The plaintiff then put in evidence the record of a quo warranto against the bank, by which it appeared that in July, 1822,
a judgment of forfeiture was rendered against that corporation,
and all its franchises and property seized into the possession of
the State; and he offered proof that Badollett, Harrison, and

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

105

Neilson v. Lagow.

Buntin purchased thi legal title to the reserved square as trustees, and that the money paid by them was from the funds of
the United States, supplied by the order of the Secretary of the
Treasury, and that all the trustees were deceased when the
action was brought.
At the request of the plaintiff the court gave the followilig
instructions :
1. That on the proof of possession as owners by the SteamAMll Company in 1820, and of the conveyance by the company to
Lagow, of June, 1827, Lagow, the plaintiff, is entitled to recover,
unless the defendant has shown a better title.
2. That the 7th section of the act of Congress of 1st of May,
1820, forbids "the purchase of any land on account of the United States," unless authorized by act of Congress.
3. That the term "purchase of land" in law, and in the act
of Congress, means any and every mode of acquiring an interest
in real estate other than by inheritance.
4. That if the government is prohibited from purchasing land
directly in its own name, it is also prohibited from purchasing
indirectly in the name of an agent or trustee.
5. That if there is any act of Congress or law authorizing the
conveyance from the bank to the trustees, it is incumbent on the
defendant to show it; and from the fact that the defendant does
not set up any such act or law, the jury may infer there is none.
6. That all acts, deeds, and agreements, contrary to the plain
language, or even to the policy, of an act of Congress, are void.
7. That if the deed of trust from the bank is contrary to the
letter or to the spirit and meaning, or to the policy of the act of
the 1st May, 1820, it is void; and the interest which the .bank
then had in the land remained in the bank.
The court refused to give the following instruction requested
by the defendant:
" That it was competent for the Bank of Vincennes to make
a deed to trustees for the benefit of the United States, and such
a deed is valid and lawful for the purpose for which it was made.
To which refusal of the court the defendant at the time excepted."
A verdict having been rendered in favor of the plaintiff, a motion for a new trial was made and refused, and in conformity
with the practice of that court, exceptions were taken to such refusal, and having been allowed, the case went by appeal to the
Supreme Court of Indiana, which is the highest court of that
State. So that the record, presented to the Supreme Court an
assignment of three alleged errors, being the same relied on as
causes for a new trial in the court below, viz.:
1. For the error of the court in misdirecting the jury.

106

SUPREME COURT.
Neilson v. Lagow.

2. For the refusal of the colrt to give the instructions to the
jury asked by the defendant.
3. Because the verdict is contrary to the law and evidence.
The Supreme Court affirmed the judgment of the Circuit
Court and under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act, (1 Stat. at
Large, 117,) the defendant has brought the record to this court
by a writ of error.
To present intelligibly, the legal merits of the case at one view,
and to show what question is here for decision, it should be
stated, that by the law of Indiana, as expounded by the Supreme
Court of that State, (State . The State Bank, 1 Blackf. Rep.)
whatever real property was held by the bank, when its charter
was annulled, went to the grantors thereof; that as Lagow and
others, whose rights he is alleged to have acquired, were the
grantors of this land to the bank, it became material to ascertain, whether the bank had any and what title to the land, when
its franchises were seized; that the bank having conveyed by
deed to Badollett and others as trustees, before the forfeiture
took effect, the validity of that deed was necessarily drawn in
question; that the court did in effect decide, that according to
the true construction of section 7th of the act of Congress of
May 1, 1820, (3 Stat. at Large, 568,) the defendant could take
no title under, or through that deed, the same being void by
force of that act; and consequently the title remained in the
bank and passed to Lagow when the charter of the bank was
vacated.
The question, therefore, which arises upon this writ of error is,
whether the Supreme Court of Indiana rightly construed the act
of Congress, which is in these words: " That no land shall be
purchased on account of the United States, except under a law
authorizing such purchase."
The deed in question conveyed the land to 1adollett and others,
in trust to sell so much thereof as might be necessary to raise
sufficientmoney to pay a debt due from the bank to the United
States. It is clear this was not in any sense a purchase of land
on account of the United States. In the land itself, the United
States acquired by the deed, no interest. They were not even
clothed with an equitable richt to acquire such an interest
through the aid of a court of equity; for their title was not to
the whole proceeds of the lands, whatever they might be, but
only to so much of them as might be necessary to pay the debt
of the bank. To this extent both the creditor and the debtor
had the right to insist on a sale, and whatever residue of land
should remain, was by force of the deed, operating by means of
a shifting, or secondary use, to go to the bank upon payment in
full of the debt due to the' United States. It is true, the deed

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

107

Neilson v. Lagow, et al.

contains some language, which, taken by itself, might raise a
use, executed in the United States; but it is well settled that such
language is controlled, by an intent, manifested in -theinstrument,
to have the legal estate remain in trustees, to enable them to
execute a trust which the deed declares; and where, as in this
case, the trust is to sell and convey in fee-simple absolute, a legal
estate is vested in the trustees commensurate with the interest
which they must convey in execution of the trust. Mott v.
Buxton, 7 Ves. 201 ; Leonard v. Sussex, 2 Vern. 526; and the
cases in note (f) to Chapman v. Blissett, Cas. Temp. Talbot,
145-160; Trent v. Hanning, 7 East, 99; Doe v. Willan, 2 B.
& A. 84.
It is clear, therefore, that these trustees, and not the United
States, took the land under this deed, and that the latter acquired no interest in the land as such. This court has applied the
same principles to the case of an alien, in Craig v. Leslie, 3
Wheat. R.'50, which settles that a devise of land to a citizen as
a trustee, upon a trust to sell the land and pay over the proceed3
to an alien, is a valid trust, and the interest of the alien is not
subject to forfeiture. See also Anstice v. Brown, 6 Paige, 448.
If it were necessary, therefore, we should hold that the act of
Congress was not applicable to this conveyance, because by it
no title to land was purchased on account of the United States.
But we do not think it necessary to rest the decision of the
case exclusively on this ground; for in our judgment the act of
Congress does not prohibit the acquisition by the United States
of the legal title to land, without express legislative authority,
when it is taken by way of security for a debt. It is the duty
of the Secretary of the Treasury to superintend the collection
of the revenue, and of the Comptroller of the Treasury to provide for the regular and punctual payment of all moneys which
may be collected, and to direct prosecutions for all debts which
may be due to the United States. 1 Stat. at Large, 65, 66.
To deny to them the power to take security for a debt on ao,
count of the United States, according to the usual methods provided by law for that end, would deprive the government of a
means of obtaining payment, often useful, and sometimes indispensably necessary. That such power exists as an incident to
the general right of sovereignty, and inay be exercised by the
proper department if not prohibited by legislation, we consider
settled by the cases of Dugan's Ex'rs. v. United States, 3 Wheat,
172; United States v. Tingey, 5 Pet. 117; United States v.
Bradley, 10 Pet. 343; United States v. Linn, 15 Pet. 290.
These cases decide, that the United States being a body politic, as an incident to their general right of sovereignty, have a
capacity to enter into contracts and take. bonds, by way of se-

108

SUPREME

COURT.

Neilson v. Lagow, et al.

curity, in cases within the sphere of their constitutional powers,
and appropriate to the just exercise of those powers, through the
instrumentality of the proper department, when not prohibited
by law, although not required to do so by any legislative act;
and we think this same power extends to and includes taking
security upon property for a debt already due. The assumption,
that Congress intended by the act in question to prohibit the
just exercise of this useful power, is wholly inadmissible. In
United States v. Hodge, et al. 6 How. 279, a postmaster had
made a mortgage of property, real and personal, to secure to the
Post-Office Department the sumof sixty-five thousand dollars,
or such other sum as might be found due on a settlement six
months after the mortgage. This mortgage embraced debts
already due, and gave time to the debtor. The sureties on his
official bond relied on its giving time as discharging them from
their obligation. It is manifest that if the mortgage were void
there was an end of the case, yet it is nowhere suggested that
it was invalid, and it is treated by the court as an operative and
effectual instnunent. The object of any form of conveyance by
way of security is not to acquire the dominion and ownership
of land, nor even to invest funds therein, but simply to obtain
payment of the debt secured. This is the principal thing to
which all others are incidental. It may happen that, by the foreclosure of a mortgage containing no power of sale, the mortgagee may become the owner of the land under the mortgage; but
this is not the. object which the parties have in view when the
mortgage is made, and takes place only because their mai'n end
is not attained, and by force of proceedings which ensue afterwards because their main end is not attained. Such a transaction is essentially different from a purchase of land in which
the parties have nothing in view but to exchange for the present
dominion and title of the land acquired by the purchaser, the
money, or other price paid to the seller, and in analogous cases
the distinction between these transactions has been recognized.
An alien cannot have an action to enforce the title to land which
he has taken by way of purchase; but this court has decided,
:9,. thet an
in Htghes et al. v. Edwards et ux. 9 Wheat. ",
alien mortgagee may have the aid of a court of eqity to foreclose a mortgage by a sale, because the debt is the principal
So, though a corporation
- thing and the land only an iiieident.
was by its charter authorized c6 take mortgages for debts previously contracted, it has been held that a mortgage to secure a
debt contracted at the time the mortgage was given, was valid,
because the intention of the legislature was only to prevent the
ebrporation from purchasing lands, and not to prohibit it from
taking security, in good faith, for the payment of its debts. Sil-

DECEMBER TERM,
Neilson v. Lagow,

1851.

109

et al.

ver Lake Bank v. North, 4 Johns. C. R. 370; Baird v. Bank of
Washington, 11 S. & R. 411. It is the opinion of the court,
that by the true construction of the act of Congress now in
question, the government are not prohibited from taking security upon lands, through the action of the proper department., for
debts due to the United States, and that the court erred in giving the act such a construction as to avoid the deed from the
bank to the trustees.
The trustees purchased, at a judicial sale,°the legal title to the
reserved square, znd paid for it out of the money of the United
States; but they had previously taken in trust, by way of security, an equitable title thereto, and this transaction, though under
the forms of a purchase, was, in truth, nothing more than relieving this parcel of land of an incumbrance, so that, when they
should sell, they might obtain the eptire benefit of the security.
The purpose was precisely the same as that which induced the
conveyance to them by the bank, and is not a purchase by the
United States, prohibited by the ct of Congress, for the same
reasons that the original conveyance is not within that act.
It remains to consider another view taken in argurnent by the
counsel for the defendant in error. The argument is, that the
Supreme Court of Indiana may have affirmed the judgment of
the Circuit Court, upon the ground that the deed to the trus.
tees not containing the word. heirs, conveyed only a life estate,
the reversion remaining in the bank; and that, as the trustees
were all dead when the action was brought, the estate in feesimple in possession had reverted to the plaintiff, Lagow. It
has been settled. by a series of decisions in this court, beginning
-,xith Miller v. Nichols, 4 Wheat. 311, and coming down to
Smith v. Hunter, 7 How. 738, that it must appear from the record that the highest court of the State passed on one of the
questions described in the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act; and different modes in which this may appear by the record
are pointed out in Armstrong v. The Treasurer of Athens Company, 16 Peters, 281. It has never been held that the record of
the proceedings of the highest court must state in terms a misconstruction by that court of the act of Congress. It is enough
that it is an inference of law, from the inspection of the whole
record, that the highest court did thus misconstrue an act of
Congress, and annul a right or title, otherwise valid, by reason
of such misconstruction. Any other rule, confining this court to
an inspection of that part of the record which sets out the proceedings of the highest court alone, would be a departue from
the general principle, that the whole of an instrument is to be
looked at to determine the effect of each part of it, would present
for decision an artificial and not a real case; and, inasmuch as
VOL. XII.

10

SUPREME COURT.
Neilson v. Lagow et al.

the highest State court often simply affirms or reverses the
judgment below, would, in all such cases, deprive the citizen of
the rights secured to him by the Constitution and the ~wentyfifth sectioih of the Judiciary Act. And it has been the practice
of this court, whenever necessary, to look at the ecord of the
proceedings of the inferior State court in connection with the
proceedings of the highest court, in orde to deduce therefrom
the points decided by the latter. Now the bill of exceptions
taken in this case in the Circuit Court shows that the construction of the act of Congress was in question in that court, was
misconstrued there, and a deed, under which the plaintiff in error
deduced title, was decided to be void by reason of such misconstruction..
This decision being excepted to, was, by the appeal, brought
before the Supreme Court; and when that court determined that
the judgment of the Circuit Court be in all things affirmed, it
must be taken that the Supreme Court affirmed the correctness
of the decision thus excepted to, unless it appears by the record
that they proceeded on some other ground; and so the inquiry
still remains, Whether the Supreme Court did not affirm the
judgment of the Circuit Court, upon the ground suggested in
argument by the counsel for the defendant in error, that the
deed in question conveyed only a life estate, which had terminated before action brought. We cannot make that deduction
from this record. It does not appear that the question, what
that deed conveyed, if valid, was in any manner -raised in the
Circuit or Supreme Court; and, assuming that the Supreme
Court were not confined on the appeal to points raised in the
court below, but might have decided upon any ground shown by
the record before them to be tenable, we cannot infer that the
decision rested on this ground, because we are of opinion it is
not tenable. If it had appeared affirmatively in the record that
the Supreme Court did decide that the deed conveyed only a
life estate, this court would not inquire into the correctness of
that decision; but when put to infer what points may have been
raised, and what that court did decide, we cannot infer that they
decided wrong; otherwise, nothing would be necessary in any
case to prevent this court from reversing an erroneous judgment

under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act, but that

co nsel should raise on the record some point of local law., however erroneoas, and suggest that the court below may have
rested its judgment thereon.
Now, on looking into the deed from the bank to the trustees,
we find that the grant is to them and their successors, in trust,
to sell and convey in fee-simple absolute. The legal estate
being in trust, must be commensurate therewith, and will be

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Williams, Trustee, v. Oliver et

al.

deemed to be so without the use of the usual words of limitation.
Newhall v. Wheeler, 7 Mass. R. 189; Stearns v. Palmer, 10
let. R. 32; Gould v. Lamb, 11 Met. R. 84; Fisher v. Fields,
10 Johns. R. 505; Welch v. Allen, 21 Wend. R. 147. As, the
execution of the trust required the trustees to have a fee-simple,
in order to cdnvey one, we are of opinion that the deed to them
conveyed a fee, and consequently we cannot infer that the State
Court decided that only a life estate passed by the deed.
The opinion of the court is, that the judgment of the court
below should be reversed, and the cause remanded for another
trial to be had therein.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the, Supreme Court of the State of Indiana, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, with
costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said Supreme Court for further proceedings to be had
therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court.

NATHANIEL WILLIAMS, AS PERMANENT TRUSTEE FOR THE CREDITORS OF JAMES WILLIAMS, AN

INSOLVENT

DEBTOR, PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR, V. CHARLES OLIVER, ROBERT AL GIBBES, ANP
THOMAS OLIVER, EXECUTORS OF ROBERT OLIVER, AND JOHN
GLENN, AND DAVID M. PERINE, TRUSTEES.
In 1 &39 a treaty was made between the United States and Mexico, providing for the

"adjustment of claims of citizens of the United States on the Mexican Republic"
Under this treaty a sum of money was awarded to be paid to the members of the
Baltimore Mexiean Company, who had subscribed money to fit out an expedition
against Mexico, under General Min, in 1816. See the case of Gill v. Oliver's
nxeeutors, 11 Howard, 529.

The proeecds of one of the shares of this company were claimed by two parties; one
as being the second permanent trustee of the insolvent owner of the share, and the
other as being the assignee of the first permanent trustee.
The Court of Appeals of Maryland decided that the plaintiff, viz., the second permanent trustee, did not take the claim under the insolvent laws of Maryland.
This decision is not reviewable by this court, under the 25th section of the Judiciary
Act; and the ease is similar to that of Gill v. Oliver's EVeeutors, 11 Howard, 529.
Nor does jurisdiction accrue in this case in consequence of the additional fact that
the Legislature of Maryland passed a law curing certain defects in the assignment
to Oliver, the validity of which law was drawn into question, as impairing the

obligation of a contract; because, if there had been no such law, the decision of
the State court would have been the same.

