DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

861

The United Stites v. Reid et al.
THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS, V. THOMAS IREID AND EDWARD

CLEMENTS.
Where two persons were jointly indicted for an offence committed against the United
States, viz., a murder committed upon the high seas, and were tried separately, it
was not competent for the person first
tried to call the other as a witness in his
behalf.
The trial took place in Virginia, and the evidence would have been competent under
a law of Virginia passed in 1849.
But the 34th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, declaring that the laws of the
several States shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law in
the courto of the United States, meant only to include civil cases at common law,
and not criminal offences against the United States.
The law by which the admissibility of testimony in criminal cases must be determined,
is the law of the State, as it was when the 'courts of the United States were established by the Judiciary Act of 1789.
Without la%,ing down any general rule, how far the affidavits of jurors impeaching
their verdict ought to be,received, it is decided that the affidavits of two jurors,
stating that, whilst impanelled, they read a newspaper report of the preceding
evidence, but which had no influence upon their verdict, were not sufficient ground
for a new trial.

Tnis case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Virginia, upon a certificate of
division in opinion between the judges thereof.
The facts are all stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr. loynes and Mr. Crittenden, (AttorneyGeneral,) for the United States, and by 11Mr. Cane and lIr. Scott,
for the defendants.
vfr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case comes before the court upon a certificate of division between the judges of the Circuit Court-for the District of
Virginia.
Thomas Reid and Edward Clements-were jointly indicted for
murder, committed by them on the high- seas, on board the
American ship J. B. Lindsey.
They were, by the permission of the court, separately tried,
and, upon the trial of Reid, he proposed to call Clelnents as a
witness on his behalf. The court rejected the testimony, being
of opinion that, as he was jointly indicted with the prisoner on
the trial, he was not a competent witness. Reid was found
guilty by the jury.
At a subsequent day he moved for a new trial upon two
grounds: 1st. Because the testimony of Clements was improperly rejected; and, 2d. For misbehavior in two of the jury who
tried the cause. In support of the second objection, he offered
in evidence the voluntary affidavits of the two jurors, one of
VOL. XII.

31

862

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. ReiCL et al.

whom deposed "that, while the case was on trial, and the jury
were impanelled, a newspaper was sent to him by some of his
family from his counting-room. It was a newspaper for which
he was a subscriber, which was regularly left at his countinghouse, and which he was accustomed to read. He looked
slightly over it, and saw that it contained a report of the evidence which had been given in the case under trial, a part of
which he read and put the paper in his pocket; that, while the
jury were in their room deliberating on their verdict, he read
over the report of the evidence in the newspaper; he read it from
curiosity, and thought it correct, and that it refreshed his memory; but it had no influence on his verdict, and that he had
made up his mind before he read it. There was no conversation about the newspaper report in the jury-room, nor did he
speak of it there to any one, nor does he know that the other
jurors knew that the report of the evidence was in the newspaper they saw him reading."
The other juror deposed "that he saw this newspaper while the
jury was impanelled in the court-room, and, upon looking at
it, saw that it contained a report of the evidence that had been
given in the case under trial. He looked over a few sentences
and put the paper aside, and did not see it afterwards. He did
not think the report accurate; it had not the slightest influence
on his judgment."
Upon the argument of the motion above mentioned the following questions arose:
1st. Ought the court to have received the evidence of Clements in behalf of the prisoner; and does the refusal of the
court to admit his testimony entitle the prisbner to a new
trial?
2d. Ought the affidavits of the two jurors to be received;
and do the facts stated in them entitle the prisoner to a new
trial ?
And upon each of these points the judges of the Circuit Court
were opposed in opinion, and ordered that the questions be certified to the Supreme Court for its decision.
The difficulty in the first question arose upon the construction
of the 34th section of the act of Congress of 1789.
By a statute of Virginia, adopted in 1849, it is provided "that
no person who is not jointly tried with the defendant shall be
incompetent to testify in any prosecution by reason of interest
in tte subject-matter thereof." And if the section in the Judiciary Act above referred to extends to the testimony in criminal
cases in the courts of the United States, then the testimony of
Clements was improperly rejected.
The section in question declares that tke laws of the several

-DECEMBER TEAM, 1851.

363

The United States v. Reid et al.

States, except where the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of
the United States shall otherwise require or provide, shall be
regarded as rules of decision, in trials at common law, in the
courts of the United States, in cases where they apply.
The language of this section cannot, upon any fair construction, be extended beyond civil cases at common law, as contradistinguished from suits in equity. So far as concerng rights of
property, it is the only rule that could be adopted by the courts
of the United States, and the only one that Congress had the
power to establish. And the section above quoted was merely
intended to confer on the courts of the United States the jurisdiction necessary to enable them to administer the la'ws of the
States. But it could not be supposed, without very plain words
to show it, that Congress intefided to give to the States the
power of prescribing the rules of evidence in trials for offences
against the United States. For this construction would in
effect place the criminal jurisprudence of one sovereignty under
the control of another. It is evident that such could not be the
design of this act of Congress, and that the statute of Virginia was not the law by which the admissibility of Clements as
a witness ought to have been decided.
Neither could the court look altogether to the rules of the
English common law, as it existed at the time of the settlement
of this country, for reasons that will presently be stated. Nor
is there any act of Congress prescribing in express words the
rule by which the courts of tha United States are to be governed,
in the admission of testimony in criminal cases. But we think
it may be found with sufficient certainty, not indeed in direct
terms, but by necessary implication, in the acts of 1789 and
1790, establishing the courts of the-United States, and providing
for the punishment of certain offences. And the law by which,
in the opinion of tli court, the admissibility of testimony in
criminal cases must be datermined, is the law of the State, asit
was when the courts of the United States were established by
the Judiciary Act of 1789. The subject is a grave one, and it
is therefore proper that the court should state fully the grounds
6f its decision.
The colonists who established the English colonies in this
country, undoubtedly brought with them the common and statute laws of England, as they stood at the time of their emigr6tion, so far as they were applicable to the situation and local
circumstances of the colony. And among the most cherished
and familiar principles of the common law was the trial by jury
in civil, and still more especially in criminal cases. And, however the, colonies may have .varied in other respects in the modifications with which the common or statute law was adopted,

364

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reid et al.

the trial by jury in all 6f them of English origin was regarded
as a right of inestimable value, and the best and only security
for life, liberty, and property.
But as the law formerly stood, the value of this right was
much impaired by the mode of proceeding in criminal cases.
For when a person was accused of a capital crime, and his life
depended upon the issue of the trial, he was denied compulsory
process for his witnesses; arid when they voluntarily appeared
in his behalf he was not permitted to examine them on oath,
nor to have the aid of counsel in his defence, except ony as regarded the questions of law.
It is true that Lord Coke, in his 3 Inst. part 3, 79, declares in
strong terms that the rule which prohibited the witnesses for the
accused from being examined on oath, was not founded in law.
Yet the rule, at the period we speak of, was daily sanctioned
and acted on in the English Courts. 2 H. P. of the Crown,
283, 4 BI. Com. 355, 358, 359, and was in full force when the
English colonies were planted in this country.
This oppressive mode of proceeding had been abolished in
England and the Colonies also by different statutes before the
declaration of independence. But the memory of the abuses
which had been practised under it had not passed away. And
the thirteen Colonies who united in the declaration of independence, as soon as they became States, placed in their respective
constitutions or fundamental laws, safeguards against the restoration of proceedings which were so oppressive and odious while
they remained in force. It was the people of these thirteen
States which formed the Constitution of the United States, and
ingrafted on it the provision which secures the trial by jury, and
abolishes the old common-law proceeding which had so often
been used for the purposes of oppression. And the provisions
in the Constitution of the United States in this respect are substantially the same with those which had been previously adopted in the several States. They were overlooked in the Constitution of the United States as originally framed. But as soon
as the public attention was called to the fact, that the securities
for a fair and impartial trial by jury in criminal cases had not
been inserted among the cardinal principles of the new government, they hastened to amend it, and to secure to a party accused of an offence against the United States, the same mode
of trial, and the same mode of proceeding, that had been previously established and practised in the courts of the several
States.
It was for this purpose that the 5th and 6th amendments were
added to the Constitution. Thp 6th amendment provides that,
in all criminal prosecutions, the party accused shall be entitled

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

365

The United States v. Reid et al.

to a trial by jury, to be confronted with the witnesses against
him, to have compulsory process for the witnesses in his favor.
and to have the aid of counsel in his defefice.
The Judiciary Act of 1789, sect. 20, provides for the manner of
summoning jurors, and directs that in all cases (of course including criminal as well as civil cases) they shall be designated by
lot or otherwise in each State, according to the mode of forming
juries therein as then practised, so far as the law of the State
shall render such designation practicable by the courts or marshals of the United States; and that the jurors shall have the
same qualifications as were requisite for jurors by the law of the
State of which they are citizens, in the highest court of law in
the State. Both of these provisions are confined by plain language to the State laws as they then were.
The Crimes Act, as it is usually called, of 1790, sect. 29, makes
some further regulations, which it is not necessary here to specify, in relation to the proceedings and right of peremptory
challenge in criminal cases before the jury are impanelled.
But neither of these acts make any express provision concerning the mode of conducting the trial after the jury are sworn.
They do not prescribe any nile by which it is to be conducted)
nor the testimony by which the guilt or innocence of the party
is to be determined. Yet, as the courts of the United States
were then organized, and clothed with jurisdiction in criminal
cases, it is obvious that some certain- and established rule upon
this subject was necessary to enable the courts to administer the
criminal jurisprudence of the United States. And it is equally
obvious that it must have been the intention of Congress to
refer them to some known and established rule, which was supposed to be so familiar and well understood in the trial by jury
that legislation upon thi subject would be deemed superfluous.
This is necessarily to be implied from what -these acts of Congress omit, as well as from what they contain.
But this could not be the common law as it existed at the
time of the emigration of the colonists, for the constitution had
carefully abrogated one of its most important provisions in relation to testimony which the accused might offer. It could not
be the rule which at that time prevailed in England, for England
was then a foreign country, and her laws foreign laws. And
the only known rule upon the subject which can be supposed to
have been in the minds of the men who framed these acts of
Congress, was that which was then in force in the respective
States, and which they were accustomed to see in daily and familiar practice in the State courts. And this view of the subject is confirmed by the provisions in the act of 1789, which
refcrs its courts and officers to the laws of the respective States

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Reid et al.

for the qualifications of jurors and the mode of selecting them.
And as the courts of the United States were in these respects to
be governed by the laws of the several States, it would seem
necessarily to follow that the same principles were to prevail
throughout the trial: and that they were to be governed in like
manner, in the ulterior proceedings after the jury was sworn,
where there was no law of Congress to the contrary.
The courts of the United States have uniformly acted upon
this construction of these acts of Congress, and it has thus been
sanctioned by a practice of sixty years. They refer undoubtedly
to English works and English decisions. For the law of evidence in this country, like our other laws, being founded upon
the ancient common law of England, the decisions of its courts
show what is our own law upon the subject where it has not
been changed by statute or usage. But the rules of evidence in
criminal cases, are the rules which were in force in the respective States when the Judiciary Act of 1789 was passed. Congress
may certainly change it whenever they think proper, within the
limits prescribed by the Constitution. But no law of a State
made since 1789, can affect the mode of proceeding or the rules
of evidence in criminal cases: and the testimony of Clements was
therefore properly rejected, and furnishes no ground for a new
trial..
The first branch of the second point presents the question,
whether the affidavits of jurors impeaching their verdict ought
to be received.
It would perhaps hardly be safe to lay down any general rule
upon this subject. Urnquestionably such evidence ought always
to be received with great caution. BUL cases might arise in
which it would be impossible to refuse them without violating
the plainest principles of justice. It is however unnecessary to
lay down any rule in this case, or examine the decisions referred
to in the argument. Because we are of opinion that the facts
proved by the jurors, if proved by unquestioned testimony,
would be no ground for a new trial. There was nothing in the
newspapers calculated to influence their decision, and both of
them swear that these papers had not the slightest influence on
their verdict.
We shall therefore answer the first question in the negative:
and to the second, that the facts stated in the affidavits of the
jurors do not entitle the prisoner to a new trial; and ,certify accordingly to the Circuit Court.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Bennett et al. v.

367

Butterworth.

record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, and on the points or questions on which
the judges of said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and
which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion
of this court-1st. That the said Circuit Court ought not to
have received the evidence of Clements in behalf of the prisoner;
and that the refusal of the court to admit his testimony does not
entitle the prisoner to a new trial; and 2dly. That the facts
stated in the affidavits of the jurors do not entitle the prisoner
to a new trial. Whereupon it is now here ordered and adjudged
by this court, that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

JoHN H. BENNETT AND E. P. HUNT, ADMINISTRATORS OF JOHN
D. AMIS, DECEASED, APPELLANTS, V. SAMUEL F. BUTTERWORTH,
AND MARY EMILY, HIS WIFE.
Where slaves are in the possession of a mortgagee, who renders an account of the
profits of their labor and the expenses which he has incurred on their behalf, he must
be held bound to exercise a reasonable diligence in keeping them engaged in useful
employments.
It is not a sufficient excuse for allowing them to remain idle, to say that he managed
them as they had been managed by their former master, the mortgagor.
If the mortgagee is charged with their hire from a period commencing three months
after the death of the mortgagor, he is not charged too much.
Where the account of the master charged the mortgagee with a certain sum for their
hire, exclusive of clothing, medical treatment, or other expenses, it was a correct
mode of stating the account.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the District of Texas.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.

It was argued by 111r. Harris and 31r. Crittenden, for the appellants, and by ilIr. Howard, for the appellees.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal in chancery from the decree of the District
Court for the District of Texas.
Butterworth and wife filed their bill against Bennett, and also
against Hunt, who is administrator of Amis, representing that
Amis, the father of Mrs. Butterworth, conveyed to her by deed,
or bill of sale under seal, in consideration of natural love and
affection, certain negroes named, on the 8th of April, 1846.
That, a short time afterward, Amis died, and that Hunt, the

