DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

435

The United States v. LeBlanc et al.

sons who have neglected to take possession, improve or survey
the lands, which they have requested to be given them, for ten,
twenty, or thirty years, can have any just claim on the government for such lands, or to receive others in place of them. Such
laches is conclusive evidence of abandonment, if not of their
total want of genuineness. But certainly no court of equity can
be required to enforce the specific execution of inchoate grants
or contracts made without consideration, which have been buried for half a century, and are now exhumed merely for purposes of sphculation.
The decree of the District Court is theretore reversed and
record remitted, -with directions to dismiss the bill or petition of
the plaintiff below.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the -opinion of this court that the grant is
null and void. Whereupon, it is now here ordered, adjudged
and decreed by this court, -that the decred of the said District
Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded
to the said District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition
of the claimant.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. CONSTANCE LEBLANC,
M\ODESTE LEBLANC, Louis LEBLANC, ASPASIA LEBLANC, JOsEP11 LEON AND RAPHAEL BROISSARD, LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES AND HEIRS AT LAV OF PIERRE LEBLANC, DECEASED.
A paper, offered aa a grant from the Spanish authorities for some land in Louisiana,
decided to be incomplete and nothing more than the preamble to Spanish grants.
M1oreover, there is no evidence that the claimants are the heirs of the grantee, nor
that any one claiming under him eer took possession or exercised any act of ownership t'om 1777 to 1846.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, being a land case
arising under the acts of 1824 and 1844.
The claimants presented in the District Court a paper, of
which the following is a translation:

"Don Bernardo de Galvez, Colonel, &c.

Having seen the

436

SUPREME

COURT.

The United States v. LeBlanc et al.

foregoing proceedings, performed by the commandant of Attacapas, Don Alexander Declobet, respecting the possession
which he had given to Peter LeBlanc, of ten arpens of front
on the great prairie, with the depth of forty-two, bounded on
one side by the lands of Louis Roque, and on the other by vacant lands, and recognizing these pfoceedings as regular, and
that the concession of these lands can be made without injury
to others, not having been claimed, but the proceedings acquiesced in on the part of those assisting in them; approving as
we do approve, and using, &c. New Orleans, 5th of January,
1777. Don Bernardo de Galvez, by order of his Lordship, Don
Joseph Foucher."
"Register's Office, New Orleans, La.
1, Louis St. Martin, Register of the Land-Office at New Orleans,
Louisiana, do hereby certify the foregoing document to be a
true copy, taken from one of the records of my office, entitled
'Libro 1 of French and Spanish Concessions.'
In faith whereof I hereunto subscribe my name, this 18th day
of May, 1849.
(Signed)
L. ST. MARTIN, Register."
Upon this document, the District Court confirmed the claim,
and the United States appealed.
It was argued by _r. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the
United States, and by Messrs. Jain and Taylor for the appellees.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion Qf the court.
This claim appears to be a groundless one. The paper produced is a copy, certified by the Register of the Land-Office at
New Orleans, to have been taken from one of the records of his
office entitled " Libro 1 of French and Spanish Concessions."
The paper as certified is nothing more than the preamble usually
inserted in Spanish grants where a perfect and absolute title is
intended to be given as contradistinguished from the order of
survey or first concession. And at the end of this preamble is
an &c., without any words of conces'sion or grant, and this &c.
is followed by the date, New Orleans, 5th cf January, 1777, and
the names of Don Bernard de Galvez, by order of his Lordship, Don Joseph Foucher.
It is not suggested that there has been any mutilation of the
record, and the paper certified manifestly contains all of the instrument that was ever w-ritten in the record-book, and upon the
face of it, from the manner in which it terminates with an &c.
at the place where the granting clause usually begins; and from

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

437

The United States v. Castant et &l.

the unusual manner, also, in -,rhich the names of Galvez and
Foucher are arranged in the certified copy, it looks much more
like a formula written in a record-book for the direction of clerks
in making out for signature an absolute and perfect grant,
than like a paper intended to convey the title to land. And
moreover there is no evidence that the petitioners are the heirs
of Pierre LeBlanc named in the paper which is claimled to have
been a grant to him; no evidence that he or those claiming
under him ever took possession or exercised any act of ownership over it; and no evidence that any right or title was ever
claimed to it, by Pierre LeBlanc or any one clahiiitng under
him, from the year 1777, when the paper bears date, down to
June 16, 1846, when this -petitionwas filed, being a period of
sixty-nine years.
The decree of the District Court must be reversed, and a
mandate issued directing the petition to be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said District Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled,
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said District Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of
the claimants.

THE

"UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JEANNETTE CAROLINE
CASTANT, WIDOW IN COMMUNITY OF JACOB BRANDEGEE;* DVd

CEASED, AND NATURAL TUTRIX OF HER MINOR CHILDREN, VrZ.:
ODILE MADELINE, CAMILLUS JOHN, STEPHAINE, MARIE HENRIETTA BRANDEGEE, AND OF CAROLINE CLOTILDE BRANDEGEE,
WIFE OF HENRY LLOYD, BENEFICIARY HEIRS AND LEGAL REPRESENTATIVES OF SAID JACOB BRANDEGEE, DECEASED.

This court again decides, as in 9 How. 127, and 10 How. 609, that by the act of 1824,
a claimant of land in Louisiana must aver and prove his residence in ihat Province
at the.date of the grant, or on or before the 10th of Mareh, 1804.
ALo, that the act was not intended to provide for perfect grants. Over such, the
Distriet Court has no jurisdiction.
.
A decreu of the court was erroneous, authorizing the claimants to enter public land,

37 *

