426

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Porche.

claimed a right or exerhption under a law of Congress. But in
order to give jurisdiction something more is necessary; the judgment of the State court must be against the right claimed. In
the case before us the decision was in favor of it, and consequently no writ of error will lie to this court under the provisions
of the act of 1789.
And as we have no jurisdiction, we cannot examine into the
objections made to the validity of the proceedings in bankruptcy.
The judgment of the State court that they were valid, and the
defendant thereby discharged from the debt due to the plaintiffs,
is conclusive between the parties.
Nor has this court the power to examine into the other question which appears to have arisen as to the legal effect of certain
promises which the defendant is alleged to have made after he
obtained his certificate in the bankrupt court. The legal obligation of such pr.mises depends upon the laws of the State in
which they were made; and in a suit in a State court the decision of that question by the highest tribunal of the State cannot be reviewed in any court of the United States. This case must therefore be dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana for the
Eastern District, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is pow here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
this cause be,.and the same is hereby, dismissed, for the want
of jurisdictibn.

THEn UNITEI- STATES, APPELLANTv,

AlEE

s PORCHE.

Thieaco of Congress passed on 26th, Alay, 1824, enabling claimants -to ltnd in Mis.
sofri and Arkansas, to try their titles, was revived by the act of 17th Uune, 1844,
and extended to Lonisiana:
By the fifth section of the act of 1824, the claimants were requir a to present Their
claims within two years from the passage of the law.
This section being revived by the act of 1844, claimants were required by the latter
act to present their claims before the 17th of June, 1846.
Acts supplementary to that of 1824 w r(' not revived by the act of 1844. Nothing
was revived except the original act.
The District Court of Louisiana had no jurisdiction, therefore, over a case where the
petition was not presented until the 8th March, 1848.
The ninth section of the act of 1824 does not prevent tha United States from appeali1g, where a claim is for less than one thousand acres.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for Louisiana.

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

427

The United States v. Porche.

It was a land case arising under the act of 1824, as revived
by the act of 1844.
On the 8th of March, 1848, Porohe filed his petition in the
District Court, claiming a confirmation of an order of survey
made by Governor Miro in 1788. It is not necessary to state
the title, as the case went off on a question of jurisdiction.
The District Attorney put in a plea that the two years within
which, by the act of 1824, petitions were to be presented, had
elapsed at the filing of the petition, and that no suit could be
brought against the United States after the 17th of June, 1846.
The court overruled the plea, and the District Attorney then
answered, repeating his plea of limitations, and also denying
the allegations of the petition generally.
After sundry proceedings, which it is not necessary to state,
the District Court, on the 6th of June, 1849, passed a decree confirming the claim.
From this decree the United States appealed to this court.
It was argued by i1r. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the
United States, and by Xr. Henderson for the appellees.
111r. Crittenden contended that the decree ought to be reversed,
because,
1. That the court below had no jursdiction, because the petition was not filed within the two years limited by the fifth section of the act of 1824. That section enacts, that any claim
within the purview of the act, which shall not be brought by petition before the said courts "within two years from the passing
of this act, or which, after being brought before the said courts,
shall, on account of the neglect or delay of the claimant, not be
prosecuted to a final decision within three years, shall be forever barred, both at law and equity, and no other action at common law, or proceeding in equity, shall ever thereafter be sustained in any court whatever in relation to these claims." The
act reviving the act of 1824, was passed 17th June, 1844; consequently the two years expired on the 17th June, 1846. The
petition in this case was not filed until the 8th of March, 1848,
nearly two years after the expiration of the tire limited.
In answer to this point it is first said, on the part of the
claimant, that the objection was waived by the District Attorney having put in his answer after the plea had been -overruled.
The objection, however, was insisted on in the answer, as
well as in the plea; but whether this had been so or not is immaterial, because the objection is one affecting the jurisdiction
of the court. The jurisdiction is confined to claims, the petitions

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Porche.

in which are presented within two years, and no consent or
waiver can confer any more extended jurisdiction. It is also
said that the right to institute proceedings extends to five years,
under the act of 1844. This question was settled to the contrary in Boisdore v. United States, 8 How. 120.
But it is further said, that the time for filing petitions limited
in the act of 26th May, 1824, was extended by the second section
of the private act, entitled "An act for the relief of Phineas Underwood, and for other purposes," of the 22d May, 1826, which
enacts, "that the time for filing petitions under the provisions"
of the act of 1824, "shall be, and the same is hereby, extended
to. the 26th day of May, in the year 1828." 1 Land Laws, 419.
There is another act relating to the same subject, not referred to in the brief on behalf of the claimant. It is an act of
the 24th May, 1828, entitled "An act to continue in force for a
limited time, and to amend an act entitled," &c., being the act
of 1824. It enacts, in the first section, that the act of 1824
shall be continued in force "for the purpose of filing petitions in the manner prescribed by that act, to and until the
26th day of May, in the year 1829; and for the purpose of enabling claimants to obtain a final decision on the validity of
their claims in the courts of Missouri and Arkansas respectively;
the said claims having been exhibited within the time above
specified, the said act shall be continued in force to and until
the 26th day of May, 1830, and no longer." 1 Land Laws, 442.
By these acts of 1826 and 1828, the time for filing petitions
was extended three years, in addition to the two given by the
act of 1824. It will be insisted on hereafter, that the act of 1844
revived only and exclusively the act of 1824. -But even if it
should be held that the acts of 1826 and 1828 were revived, as
well as the act of 1824, for other purposes, yet, for the purpose of extending the time for filing petitions, they were not
so revived. There would be something in the argument if these
acts had extended the time for filing two years, and one year
longer; but the language employed "to the 26th day of May,
1828 "- "to and until the 26th day of May, 1829," excludes the
idea that these portions of the acts could be revived by the
act of 1844. They afforded the relief intended at the time to
claimants, but it cannot be extended by analogy to those claiming under the act of 1844.
But the act of 1844 revived only that of 1824. This question
has been twice presented to the court, as arising on the point
whether it was necessary for the claimants to make individuals
holding any portion of the lands adverse to the claimants parties to the petition. The act of 1824 directs them to be made
parties, but the, act of 1828 repeals this dhection. This brought

DECEM BER TERM, 1851.

429

The United States v. Porche.

up the question. The case in which the point was raised
went off on other grounds, and was never decided by this
court.
It was maintained, on behalf of the United States, that the
act of 1844 revived only that of 1824, as follows:
It is said that the act of 1844 revived the act of 1824, as taken
in connection with that of 1828. That, however, must depend
upon the intention of Congress, to be gathered from the language of the act itself. 1st. It refers to the act of 1824 by its
name, reciting both its date and title. . It does not revive the
whole of its provisions, but expressly excludes all such portions
of said act as referred to the territory of Arkansas. Here is a
special reference to this act only, in a form of expression as clear
and perspicuous as can be employed. Again, it says, "and
the provisions of that part of the aforesaid act hereby revived."
What is still more conclusive and decisive is the following provision, thus -" as if these States had been enumerated in the
original act hereby revived." The act of 1824 is not only declared to be revived, but reenacted, excluding all such portions
of said act as ieferred to the Territory of Arkansas.
It is not reasonable to suppose that Congress intended to revive and rei.nact the whole of the act of the 24th i\'ay, 1828,
because no part of the first section could be of any avail. No
exceptions are made in regard to this act, and no reference is
made to it; while in regard to the act of 1824, the parts rejected
are carefully excluded, and the residue only is revived and reenacted. The established rules of construction show, thatwhere
a part is named and excluded, the residue is reenacted. Expressio ztnius est exchisio allerius. Co. Lit. 210 A, 1836; Bro.
Legal Maxims, 183, 187.
Every-part of the act of 1824,.except what relates to the Territory of Arkansas, is revived and reenacted by express words;
the court will readily perceive that this case is distinguishable
from one reported in 7 Cranch, 382. In that case the language
of the reviving act was general in the reference to the acts
which had expired; here it is special and specific, and, by several modes of expression, negatives any such general inference.
There is a plain repugnance between the first and eighth sections of the act of 1824, and the second section of the act of
1828. If, therefore, the law of 1824 is revived and reenacted,
it is clear that the law of 1828 remains a dead letter.
Qu-estions bearing a strict analogy have often aisen upon
repealing statutes, whether it was the'intention of the framers
to repeal the whole or only a part of the acts to which such repealing statutes were applied. No better mode occurs of illustrating the subject, than by referring to the stamtard rules of con-

430

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Parche.

struction which have been adopted by the courts in such cases.
The word repeal is not to be taken in an absolute sense, if, from
the whole, it appears to be used with a limitation. In every
'case it is a question of construction, whether it operate as a
total, or partial, or temporary repeal. Rex v. Rogers, 10 East,
573.
Where several acts of Parliament, upon the same subject, had
been totally repealed, and others repealed in part, it was held
that it must have been the clear intention of the legislature that
only the part of an act particularly pointed out should be repealed. Camden v. Anderson, 6 Term R. 72:3; Dwar. on Stat.

675.
The general principle undoubtedly is, that the repeal of a repealing statute revives the first act, unless the new law contain words indicative of a contrary intention of the legislature;
in which case no such consequence follows.
So, it is said, if an act of Parliament be revived, all acts explanatory of that so revived are revived also; which may be true, unless in the latter case, as in the former, the language of the
act authorizes a different interpretation. The Bishop's case, 12
Coke's Rep. 7; Tattle v. Greenwood, 4 Bing. 496; Dwar. on
Stat. 676; Brown v. Barry, 3 IDall. 367.
And where some parts of a revived statute are omitted in the
reviving statute, they are not to be revived by construction, but
are to be considered as annulled. Ellis v. Paige, 1 Pick. 43,45;
Rutland v. Mendon, 1 Pick. 154; Blackburn v. Walpole, 9 Pick.
97.
The law does not favor implications in construing a repealing
or a reviving statute. Loker v. Brookline, 13 Pick. 342, 348;
Haines v. Jenks, 2 Pick. 172, 176 ; Dwar. on Stat. 675.

Mr. Henderson, for the appellee.
We first submit to the consideration of the court with the
argument at hearing, a motion to dismiss this suit, for reasons1. Because the claim being for less than 1000 acres of land,
is not appealable. We believe this was the intention of Congress. See 9th sect. act 26th May, 1324.
2. Because the record on which the appeal was taken to December term, 1849, was not filed in this court till 28th February,
1850.
Should this motion be overruled, we further submit that as the
merits of the case upon the fats obviously sustain the decree,
therefore, we think, the only point deserving note, is the plea in
bar interposed, that the suit was not instituted till after two
years from the date of the act of 17th June, 1844.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.

431

The United 'States v. Porche.

To this objection in this court our answer is twofold. 1st.
That as the United States answered to the merits, after their
plea had been overruled, the objection was waived, and cannot
now be reviewed in this court. To have made that objection
available here, the United States should have suffered judgment
final upon the plea, and appealed from that judgment. United
States v. Boyd, 5 How. 51; 16 Pet. 93, 94.
Our second answer is, that the judgment on the plea was
right, because the right of action given by the act 17th June,

1846, "to institute proceedings to try, &c., extends -to five
years; or if not, and the time given to institute the suit is the
same as was given to Missouri, then the limitation is four years

from 17th June, 1844, to 17th June, 1848. Because the fifth section
of the act of 1824 was by the act of 22d May, 1826, extended
by amendment to 26th May, 1828; hence the 5th section of.the
act of 1824 was by said amendment a limitation of four years,
and only expired as so amended." And this act, thus liberally
construed, avoids this ple?. as to time.

111r. Crittenden, in reply.
Two objections are taken to the appeal:
1st. It is said that no appeal lies, the claim being for less than
one thousand acres.
By the latter part of the second section o; the act of 1824, it
is provided as follows: "And in all cases, the party against
whom the judgment or decree of the said District Court may be
finally given, shall be entitled to an appeal within one year from
the time of its rendition to the Supreme Court of the United
States." That is the language of the law.
It is 5upposed, however, that the ninth section restricts the
United States in the right'of appeal thus given to both parties.
This rection declares that it shall be the duty of the District
Attorney, where the claim exceeds one thousand acres, and the
decision is against the government, to report the facts of the
case to the Attorney-General, and the decision of the court; and
if he shall be of opinion that the decision is erroneous, it shall
be his duty to direct an appeal to the Supreme Court, and to
appear and prosecute the said appeal. This section, it is very
clear, however, is merely directory to the officers named in it;
and it was so decided by the court in Curry and Garland v.
United States, 6 How. 111. Its intention is obvious, to provide for greater care being taken in cases of large grants; and it
in no way abridged the right of appeal given to both parties in
all cases by the second section.
2d. It is said that the appeal should be dismissed, because the
record was not filed till 28th February, 1850.

432

SUPREME COURT.
The United States v. Forche.

The decree in the case was delivered on the 8th June, 1849;
and on the same day an appeal das prayed and allowed, and
citation issued, returnable to December term, 1849. The record
was filed on the 28th February, 1850, during that term, which
did not end until May. The point must have been made by
the other side under some misapprehension.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
It is evident that the District Court had no jurisdiction in
this case, and the petition ought to have been dismissed.
The act of June 17th, 1844, under which the petition was
filed, extended to Louisiana the act of 1824, and revived such
parts of it as had expired. Under this provision, the fifth section of the act of 1824 was revived, and became a part of the
law of 1844. And by this section; the time for filing a petition
by a claimant under a French or Spanish grant, is in express
terms limited to two years from the passage of the law. The
time limited, therefore, for filing a petition in Louisiana, expired
on the 17th of June, 1846, and this petition was not filed until
March 8th, 1848, long after the time fixed by the law. 8 How. 119.
The acts of 1826 and 1828, referred to in the argument, can
have no bearing on the question. They are not mentioned, nor
in any manner referred to, by the act of- 1844. They were special laws enlarging the time given by the act of 1824 to claimants in Missouri and Arkansas to file their petitions. But they
are not extended to Louisiana by the act of 1844. Nothing but
the act of 1824 is extended. As to the supposed waiver by the
District Attorney of his objection as to the time of filing the
petition, by answering after his plea was overruled, it must be
made, we suppose, upon a mistake as to the fact. For in his
answer he insists upon the same defence. And he had a right
to avail himself of it by way of answer as well as by plea.
But if he had, in express terms, waived it, and entered his waiver on the record, it would not have given jurisdiction to the
court, when the act of Congress had not conferred it.
The objection to the regularity with which the appeal was
brought up must also, we presume, have arisen from some oversight in the counsel. The record shows that it has been brought
up regularly according to the provisions of the act of Congress.
The objection that an appeal will not lie on behalf of the United
States, where the claim is less than one thousand acres, is too
clearly untenable to require discussion.
And as the petition was not filed within the time limited by
law, it is not necessary to examine into the merits or want of
merits of the claim. The decree of the District Court must be

DECEMBER

TERM,

The United States v.

1851.

433

Simon.

reversed, and a mandate issued directing the petition to be dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by
this court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause
be, and the same is hereby, reversed and annulled; and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District
Court, with directions to dismiss the petition of the claimant.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

V.

EDWARD SIAiON.

In 1791 miro granted an order of survey for some land in Louisiana.
During the ten years that the province,remained in the hands of Spain, the grantee
neither had a survey, nor took possession, nor did any other act showing an intention of fulfilling the conditions upon which the grant was made.
The regulations of Morales required parties so situated to have their titles made out.
In ca-e of neglect the Spanish government was under no obligation to grant the
land, and therefore the claim is not good against the United States.

THIs was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The case arose under the acts of 1824 -and 1844, and was decided by the District Court in favor of the petitioner. The circurnstances are stated in the opinion of the court.
It -was argued by Mr. Crittenden, (Attorney-General,) for the
Wnited States. No counsel appeared for the appellee.
Mr.Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
Edward Simon, the plaintiff below, filed his petition in the
District Court of Louisiana, praying the confirmation of his
title to a tract of land on the bayou Sans Facon or Huffpower,
containing si: thousand four hundred arpens. He claimed by
various niesne conveyances through Stephen Flores, who on the
11th of November, 1791, petitioned Governor Miro for a grant of
eighty arpens front on each side of said bayou; the petitioner
being "desirous," as he states, "of establishing himself in the
post of Opelousas." On the 20th of November, 1791, Governor Miro issued an order to Don Carlos Trudeau to establish
the petitioner on the land for which he prays, in the usual form.
VOL. XII.

37

