.

SUPREME
Fretz et al. v.

RALPH

S.

LIAM J.

COURT.
Bull et al.

AND JOHN FRETZ, APPELLANTS, '1. JOHN

' CLURE,

ING UNDER THE NAME AND
THE USE OF THE FIREMEN'S
VILLE.

C. BULL,

WIL-

S.

FOREMAN, PARTNERS, TRADSTYLE OF J. C. BULL & Co., FOR

AND THOMAS

INSURANCE

COMPANY OF Louis-

The extent of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the courts of the Unit-cd
States, as explained in the preceding case, again affirmed.

In admiralty, the party entitled to relief should always be made libellant; and the
practice of instituting a suit in the name of one person for the benefit of another,
to whom the right has been transferred, only obtains in particular cases. But all
persons entitled, on the same state of facts, to participate in the same relief, may
join as libellants, whether the suit be in personam or ir, rem.
Hehee, where the cargo of a boat was partly insured, but not the bout itself, and the

insurance company paid for tlat part of the cargo which was insured, it was competent for the owners of the boat to file a libel for the use of the insurance company.
In this case, where a collision took place between a steamboat and a flatboat, both
descending the Mississippi River, the steamboat was in fault.
The flatboat was in an eddy of the river, and impelled by it towards the steamboat,
and the latter should have kept further away.

THIS wa, an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for he Eastern District of Louisiana.
The facts in the case are stated in the opinion of the court.
The cargo of flatboat No. 2 consisted of 3,136 sacks of corn,
.31 barrels and One keg of lard, 315 sacks of oats, of which there
were insured,
1,643 sacks of corn (4,125 bush. at 75c.) . . $3,093 00
141 20
158 sacks pats (353 bush. at 40c.) ....
333 63
.
.......
...
17 barrels of lard.
$3,567 83
which was paid by the insurance company, with a small deduction. When paid, there was an argument .between the insurance company and John C. Bull & Co., that the latter would
include the insurance company in the libel.
The libel was filed by John C. Bull, William J. Ai'Clare, and
Thomas S. Foreman, trading under the firm of John C. Bull
& Co., in the District Court of the United States. They
were the owners of the boat and of the corn, and filed the libel
for the use of the insurance company. A variety of testimony
was taken, the important parts of which are stated in the opinion of the court.
The District Court gave judgment in favor of the libellants,
in the sum of $3,753.45.
The defendants appealed to the Circuit Court.
The Circuit Court affirmed the judgment of the District
Court, and the defendants-appealed to this court.

DECEMBER TERM, 1851.
Fretz et al. v. Bull et al.

It was argued by /r. Coxe, for the appellants, and .submitted, on printed argument, by 31r. Clay, for the' appellees.
The greater part of the argument consisted in an examination
and comparison of the evidence, which cannot be reported.
11r. Coxe, for the appellants, made the following law points:
In cases of collision, the law requires that there should be
preponderating evidence to fix the loss upon the party sought to
be charged, before he can be condemned to make compensation.
The Ligo, 2 Hag. 356; Curtis's Adm. Dig. 144, sect. 6.
A collision may happen without blame being imputable to
either party. In such case the loss must be borne by the party
upon whom it happens to light. It may be the result of mutual
negligence or misconduct. In such case, the Supreme Court
of Louisiana has decided that plaintiff cannot recover. 3 Ann.
Rep. 441.
The general presumption in favor of the party charged is in
this case corroborated by a single fact, in regard to-which there
is no contrariety in the evidence. It seems agreed, on all hands,
that the head of the steamboat had passed the flatboat before
the collision occurred, and before any one anticipated the danger. Nothing, under such circumstances, could have led to the
catastrophe, but the unexpected movement of the flatboat, occasioned by the eddy.
As to the measure of damages, it is submitted that, in a
case of this description, vindictive damages ought not to be
allowed; nor is the party entitled to more than' indemnification.
Under this rule, where the property injured is in transitu,and
has not reached the port of desfination, the prime cost and the
necessary expenses incurred, furnish the measure of damages.
Amistad de Bues, 5 Wheat. 385; Amiable Nancy, 3 Wheat.
546; 1 Paine, 111; The Lively, 1 Gall. 308; The Apollon, 9
Wheat. 362.
Another question arises in this case. After the master and
crew had been carried to New Orleans in the Memphis, in
March, 1847, narhely, in March, 1848, Bull and his partners
bring this suit for the use of the Firemen's Insurance Company
of Louisville. From the bill of lading, it appears that the cargo
belonged to several individuals. The insurance effected by them,
March, 22, 1847, covered the entire cargo; but there was no insurance on the boat itself. Thq amount of loss, $3,496.48, was
paid, May 4, 1847; and it was agreed that Bull & Co. should
bring a suit for the recovery. The judgment was for $3,753.45,
exceeding the loss paid by the insurance company, with inte'rest, and manifestly included the boat, &c.

SUPREME COURT.
Fretz et al. v. Bull et al.

The action is brought, as the libel avers, (p. 4,) exclusively for
the use of the insurance company; yet the claim embraces the
boat, on which there was no insurance.
1. It is submitted that, after the payment of the loss by the
company, Bull & Co. had no right to bring this suit, he being
already paid.
2. That if the insurance company brought suit, it was entitled to recover no more than what was actually paid by it.
3. That, in this action, the claim for the loss sustained by
the cargo was improperly joined with a claim for the injury to
the boat, the insurance company having no interest in the latter.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Two objections were .urged in the argument of this cause by
the appellants' counsel, against this court giving a decision upon
its merits.
The one, that th, court had not jurisdiction on account of the
locality of the collision, it being beyond tide-water; and the
other, that the libellants could not prosecute this suit for the
benefit of others, as the libellants have no interest in it.
The first may be disposed of, because the court, at this term,
has decided, in the case of the Genesee Chief v. Fitzhugh et al.,
that the constitutional jurisdiction of the United States in admiralty was not limited by tide-water, but was extended to the
lakes and navigable rivers of the United States.
The other objection is not sustained by the proofs in the
cause. Mr. Atwood, p. 39 of the record, states what was the
amount of insurance which was paid upon the cargo, by the
Firemen's Insurance Company of Louisville, and that nothing
was paid to the libellants, Bull & Co., for the loss of the boat.
In admiralty, the party entitled to relief should always be made
libellant; and the practice of instituting a suit in the name of
one person for the benefit of another, to whom the right has
been transferred, only obtains in particular cases. But all persons entitled on the same state of facts t o participate in the
same relief, may join as libellants, whether the suit be i& personam or in rem. Benedict, 211, sect. 380.
Mr. Atwood, in his testimony, says, how Bull & Co. became
united with the insurance company in this suit, though it is
not stated in the libel with the precise formality it should have
been, yet it appears sufficiently plain in other parts of the
libel, and from the proofs in the cause, that the parties named
in the libel have respectively an interest, which is covered by
the principle just stated, that the same state of facts which will
give relief to one will permit others to be joined as libellants.
It is no substantial objection, then, that the suit has been brought

DECEMBER TERM,

1851.

469

Fretz et al v. Bull et al.

in the name of Bull & Co., for the use of the Firemen's Insur.
ance Company. The insurance, in this instance, was upon the
cargo of boat No. 2, and not upon the boat. The cargo, however, was not fully insured. The insurance company, upon
being informed of the loss of it from a collision with the Memphis, paid their policy upon it, and that placed them in r. condition to bring this suit for its recovery, if it could be ascertained that the collision was produced by the fault of those who
were in charge of the steamer belonging to the appellants.
We will now inquire from what cause the collision happened,
or who was in the fault.
In the second article we have a description of its locality. It
was at a point in the Mississippi River opposite Prophet's Island,
in the State of Louisiana, and took place on the 11th April,
1847, on a clear day, between the hours of nine and ten o'clock,
in the forenoon, whilst the flatboat, No. 2, was going down
stream in the asual and proper channel. It seems, that she was
drawn in towards the shore by an eddy, and that whilst there,
the steamer Memphis, also descending the river, and the flatboat
came in contact with each other, from which the flatboat was
capsized and sunk in less than four minutes, losing her whole
cargo, excepting sixteen barrels and one keg of lard. The allegatipn is, that the steamer, with proper care and skill, might
with great ease have been kept clear of said flatboat, and that the
flatboat could not possibly get out of the way of the steamboat,
but was run against by the steamer with great force and violence, striking her on her starboard quarter and causing her to
fill rapidly. The answer of the respondents to this allegation
is, that the steamer was carefully going down the Mississippi,
being at the time in the proper place for a descending boat, and
that the officers on board of said steamboat observ3d two flatboats in the eddies, on both sides of the river, one in the eddy
on the right side of the river, the other in that on' the left, the
latter being the flatboat, No. 2. It is further stated that when
the flatboats were discovered, there was ample space for the
steamboat to pass safely between them. The flatboat on the
right hand side of the river was nearest the steamboat, and was
first passed. It is also stated, that in order to leave ample room
for passing in safety flatboat No. 2, which was on the left side,
that the Memphis was steered as closely to the first flatboat as
it was pradent or safe to go; that after that boat had been safely
passed, the flatboat, No. 2, appegied to be some two hundred
yards in the eddy from the course of the steamer, the captain
of her rquesting that a Louisville paper might be thrown into
the river for him, stating that he would send his skiff out for it.
Up to this time there was not the slightest apprehension of a
VOL. XI,

40

470

SUPREME COURT.
Fretz 6t al. v. Bull et al.

collision. The.captain of the Memphis not liking the position
of the flatboat, she being at the time off to the left of his boat,
with her bow nearly at right angles to his boat, requested the
persons on the boat to throw down her stern. The captain of
the flatboat seized the helm and endeavored to do so, but could
not succeed. A moment before this, no one could have supposed a collision possible, but just about the time the bow of
the Memphis passed the flatboat, she being then a considerable
distance to the left of the course of the Memphis, a sudden
change in the current of the eddy, or some other cause unknown
to these respondents, threw the said flatboat against the larboard wheel-house 9 f the Memphis, inearly bow foremost, which
starfed one of the planks of her bow, causing her soon to fi1
with water and sink. That previous to, and at the time of the
collision, the Memphis was running in the current of the river,
between the two eddies.
From these allegations of the appellants and respondents,
substantially agreeing with each other, as to the eddies, the locality of the collision, and the relative positions of the boats to
each other at that moment, it would be difficult to determine by
the fault of which of them the disaster was occasioned. But
from the antecedent navigation of the Memphis from the point
where the flatboats were first observed, whether it shall be
taken from the narrative of the respondent just recited, or from
the evidence in the case, it cannot be doubted that the collision
was produced by the carelessness or ignorance or disregard of
her pilot of the consequences which those eddies might produce
in the positions in which the Memphis and flatboats then were.
It is not denied by the respondents, and it is asserted by the libellants, that the flatboat was, from the time the Memphis first
saw her, until she was sunk, in the proper channel of downward
navigation, floated onward only by the current. The captain ofthe
Memphis, in his downward course, was the first to discover the
danger resulting from the position in which his vessel had been
placed relatively to the flatboat. He says, he did not like it,
and requested those on board the flatboat to throw down her
stern. He admits, that the captain of the flatboat endeavored to
do so, but could not succeed. He had approached the flatboat,
without any change in the position of the flatboat up to that
moment. Now, if according to his own declaration, the colliion occurred but a moment after, before be can be excused for
his near approach to the flatboat, he must show that there was
not water-room, and of sufficient depth, to have run the Memphis further off than he did, and that there was not, on either
side of the flatboat, a sufficient width of water for him to have
passed the flatboat at a distance greater than the length of the

DECE3BER TERM, 1851.
Fretz et al. v. Bull et al.

Memphis, for it is plain, if that had been done, whether the eddy
turned the flatboat or not, that the two boats could not have
come into collision. The evidence on the part of the respondents, confirms this view of the case; for Galusha says, that at
the time of the collision, there was room enough for the Memphis to pass without interfering with the flatboat at all; and
Thomas testifies, that the flatboat was floating with the current,
and the steamboat running with the stream, and though that at
the place of accident, there was an eddy on both sides of the
river, that the river was very high and broad, and the Memphis
might have passed on either side and thereby prevented the accident. It is further stated by this witness, that the Memphis
was coming towards the flatboat, and if we had pulled from
her we should have got into the eddy towards her, and 'she
would have run over us; we did every thing we could to prevent
said accident, and it was not caused by the carelessness or want
of skill of the crew of the flatboat. Yourd, another witness,
confirms this statement, and that the Memphis -had "a plenty
of room to avoid her." Henry Moore, another witness says, that
the accident was caused by the fault of the pilot or crew of the
steamboat Memphis; that it occurred in daylight, when there
was no fog on the river and no wind , that on the left side of
the .steamboat there were three hundred yards of water; and
on the right side one hundred yards; that the steamboat
might have passed on either side with perfect safety to herself
and the flatboat, as there were neither bar's nor snags in that
part of the river; but that instead of passing around, she
undertook to run between the flatboat and a hay boat that
was floating between us and the right-hand shore, and struck
our boat as he has stated. The respondents' witness, Bentley,
confirms the statement of the last witness, that the steamer run
between the two boats, running as near to the boat on the right,
in order to leave as much room for the one on the left, as pos.
sible; and that he did not, after he had passed the boat on the
right, apprehend there was any danger of collision with the boat
on the left; that the Memphis kept a straight course down the
current of the river, and did not suppose, when the Memphis
passed the first flatboat, that he would run within a hundred
yards of the boat, No. 2. He further states, that the flatboat,
No. 2, did not change her relative position to the course the
Memphis was running, but it was caused by the eddy forcing
out the flatboat into the current of the river; that he, as the
pilot, ran the Memphis in such a manner as he thought would
prevent. a collision. He thinks the Memphis was fifty yards
from the flatboat, when the bow of the Memphis passed her;
at that time witness was running, quartering into the bend on

SJPREME COURT.
Gaines v. Relf et &I.

thi left. About that Ume he was apprehensive of a collison, and
that it was caused by the approach of- the flatboat; But this
witness says, that the river at the place of collision was from
three quarters to a mile wide. Now with this fact, stated by
himself, why was it necessary to run the Memphis on such a
course as that such a collision should have happened? Or why
was she,not run at such a distance as that it could not have occurred? Added to this, this witness knew the force of. the eddies, and should have guarded cautiously against their effect.
This is a cause of collision happening in broad daylight after
the steamer had observed the flatboat for more than the distance
of half a mile. The. evidence* shows, that the steamer could
have be~n differently navigated from the manner in which she
was, and that thei course she was run, though in the judgment
of the pilot was the best under the circumstances, yet that it
was a course which"caused the collision, and that another might
have been taken by which there would have been no possibility
of a collision.
The judgment ofthe Circuit Court is affirmed.
Mr. Justice DANIEL dissented from the decision in this case,
on the ground of 'the w-ant of jurisdiction inthe admiralty courts
of the United States, in cases like the present
.Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record, from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause, be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs, and
damages at the rate of six per centum per annum.

MYRA CLARK GAINES, APPELLANT, V. RICHARD RELF, AND

BEV-

ERLY CHEW, EXECUTORS Or DANIEL CLARK AND OTHERS.
Myra Clark Gaines filed a bill in chancery, alleging her claim to certain property upon
the ground that Clark, who died seized of'the property, had been married to Zulimc,
the mother of the complainant:
The claim was resisted upon two grounds. 1st, That no svch alleged marriage took
place; and 2d, That Zulime was, at the-date of the alleged marriage, the wile of a
man named'Desgrange. The marriage with Desgrange was admitted by the
complainant, but it was contended that the marriage was void ab initio, becase Desgrange, at the time of contracting it, had another wife living, and therefore was
guilty of bigamy.
In this case, it is decided that the two principal witnesses for the complainant, to es-

