OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Syllabus

448 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. WARD, DBA L. 0. WARD OIL & GAS
OPERATIONS
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT

No. 79-394.

Argued February 26, 1980-Decided June 27, 1980

Section 311 (b) (3) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act prohibits
the discharge of oil into navigable waters. Section 311 (b) (5) requires
any person m charge of an onshore facility to report any such discharge
to the appropriate Government agency, and a failure to report subjects
the person to a fine or imprisonment. Section 311 (b) (5) also provides
for a form of "use immunity," by specifying that notification of the
discharge or information obtained by the exploitation of such notification is not to be used against the reporting person in any criminal case,
except for prosecution for perjury or for giving a false statement. Section 311 (b) (6) provides for the imposition of a "civil penalty" against
any owner or operator of an onshore facility from which oil was discharged m violation of the Act. When oil escaped from a drilling facility
leased by respondent and spilled into a tributary of the Arkansas River
system, respondent notified the Environmental Protection Agency of the
discharge, and this was reported to the Coast Guard, who assessed a
S500 penalty against respondent under § 311 (b) (6). After his admmistrative appeal was denied, respondent filed suit m Federal District Court,
seeking injunctive relief against enforcement of §§ 311 (b) (5) and (6)
and collection of the penalty The Government filed a separate suit
to collect the penalty, and the suits were consolidated for trial. Prior
to trial, the District Court rejected respondent's contention that the
reporting requirements of § 311 (b) (5), as used to support a civil penalty
under § 311 (b) (6), violated his right against compulsory self-mcrimnation, and ultimately the jury found that respondent's facility did, in fact,
spill oil into the creek in question. The Court of Appeals reversed, holdmg that § 311 (b) (6) was sufficiently punitive to intrude upon the
Fifth Amendments protections against compulsory self-incrimination.
Held.
1. The penalty imposed by § 311 (b) (6) is civil and hence does not
trigger the protections afforded by the Constitution to a criminal
defendant. Pp. 248-251.
(a) It is clear that Congress intended in § 311 (b) (6) to impose a
civil penalty upon persons in respondent's position, and to allow inposi-

UNITED STATES v. WARD
242

Syllabus

tion of the penalty without regard to the procedural protections and
restrictions available in criminal prosecutions. This intent is indicated
by the fact that the authorized sanction is labeled a "civil penalty,"
and by the juxtaposition of such label with the criminal penalties set
forth in § 311 (b) (5). P 249.
(b) The fact that § 13 of the Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act
of 1899 makes criminal the conduct penalized in this case does not render
the penalty under § 311 (b) (6) criminal in nature. The placement of
criminal penalties m one statute and of civil penalties in another statute
enacted 70 years later tends to dilute the force of the factor-the
behavior to which the penalty applies is already a crime-considered,
inter alia, in Kennedy v Mendoza-Martinez, 372 U. S. 144, as indicating
that a penalty is criminal in nature. Neither that factor nor any of the
other factors set forth in Mendoza-Martinez are sufficient to render
unconstitutional the congressional classification of the penalty established in § 311 (b)(6). Pp. 249-251.
2. The proceeding in which the penalty was imposed was not "quasicriminal" so as to implicate the Fifth Amendments protection against
self-mcnimination. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, distinguished.
In light of overwhelming evidence that Congress intended to create a
penalty civil in all respects and weak evidence of any countervailing
punitive purpose or effect, it would be anomalous to hold that § 311
(b) (6) created a criminal penalty for the purposes of the Self-Incrunination Clause but a civil penalty for all other purposes. Pp. 251-254.
598 F 2d 1187, reversed.
REHNQUIsT, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
BRENNAN, STEwART, WHrrE, and PowELL, JJ., joined. BLAcx-

C. J., and

mnU, J., filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, in which MARsHALL,
J., joined, post, p. 255. SmvENs, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 257

Edunn S. Kneedler argued the cause for the United States.
With him on the briefs were Solicitor General McCree, Assistant Attorney General Moorman, Jacques B Gelin, and
Michael A. McCord.
Stephen Jones argued the cause for respondent.
on the brief was Dawd C Butler *

With hin

*James G. Watt filed a brief for the Mountain States Legal Foundation
et al. as amicz curiae urging affirmance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion of the Court
MR. JUSTICE REHNQUIST

448 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The United States seeks review of a decision of the United
States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit that a proceeding for the assessment of a "civil penalty" under § 311
(b) (6) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA)
is a "criminal case" within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment's guarantee against compulsory self-incrimination. We
granted certiorari, 444 U S. 939, and now reverse.
I
At the time this case arose,1 § 311 (b) (3) of the FWPCA
prohibited the discharge into navigable waters or onto adjoining shorelines of oil or hazardous substances in quantities determined by the President to be "harmful." 2 Section 311 (b) (5)
of the Act imposed a duty upon "any person in charge of a
vessel or of an onshore facility or an offshore facility" to
report any discharge of oil or a hazardous substance into
navigable waters to the "appropriate agency" of the United
States Government. Should that person fail to supply such
notification, he or she was liable to a fine of not more than
$10,000 or imprisonment of not more than one year. Section
311 (b) (5) also provided for a form of "use immunity,"
specifying that "[n] otification received pursuant to this paragraph or information obtained by the exploitation of such
notification shall not be used against any such person in any
crimnal case, except a prosecution for perjury or for giving
a false statement." 33 U S. C. § 1321 (b) (5) 1
'Section 311 was amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977, Pub. L.
95-217, 91 Stat. 1566, and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1978, Pub. L. 95-576, 92 Stat. 2468. Except as noted, those
amendments have no bearing on the present case. See nn. 2 and 4, infra.
2 Section 311 (b) (3) was amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1978, Pub. L. 95-576, 92 Stat. 2468, to prohibit
the discharge of oil and hazardous substances "in such quantities as may
be harmful" (emphasis added), as determined by the President.
3At the time in question, § 311 (b) (5) read in full.
"Any person in charge of a vessel or of an onshore facility or an offshore

UNITED STATES v. WARD
242

Opinion of the Court

Section 311 (b) (6) provided for the imposition of a "civil
penalty" against "[a]ny owner or operator of any vessel, onshore facility, or offshore facility from which oil or a hazardous substance is discharged in violation" of the Act. In 1975,
that subsection called for a penalty of up to $5,000 for each
violation of the Act 4 In assessing penalties, the Secretary
of the appropriate agency was to take into account "the appropriateness of such penalty to the size of the business or of the
owner or operator charged, the effect on the owner or opera-

tor's ability to continue in business, and the gravity of the
"
33 U S. C. § 1321 (b) (6) violation.
facility shall, as soon as he has knowledge of any discharge of oil or a
hazardous substance from such vessel or facility in violation of paragraph
(3) of this subsection, immediately notify the appropriate agency of the
United States Government of such discharge. Any such person who fails
to notify immediately such agency of such discharge shall, upon conviction,
be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than one year,
or both. Notification received pursuant to this paragraph or information
obtained by the exploitation of such notification shall not be used against
any such person m any criminal case, except a prosecution for perjury or
for giving a false statement."
4 Section 311 (b) (6) was amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1978, Pub. L. 95-576, 92 Stat. 2468, to authorize
civil penalties of up to $50,000 per offense, or up to $250,000 per offense in
cases where the discharge was the result of willful negligence or msconduct.
-At the time of the discharge in this case, § 311 (b) (6), as set forth in
33 U. S. C. § 1321(b) (6), read:
"Any owner or operator of any vessel, onshore facility, or offshore
facility from which oil or a hazardous substance is discharged m violation
of paragraph (3) of this subsection shall be assessed a civil penalty by the
Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating of not
more than $5,000 for each offense. No penalty shall be assessed unless the
owner or operator charged shall have been given notice and opportunity
for a hearing on such charge. Each violation is a separate offense. Any
such civil penalty may be compromised by such Secretary In deternning
the amount of the penalty, or the amount agreed upon in compromise,
the appropriateness of such penalty to the size of the business of the
owner or operator charged, the effect on the owner or operator's ability to
continue in business, and the gravity of the violation, shall be considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opinion of the Court

448 U.S.

According to § 311 (k) of the Act, funds collected from the
assessment of penalties under § 311 (b) (6) were to be paid into
a "revolving fund" together with "other funds received
under this section" and any money appropriated to the revolving fund by Congress. See 33 U S. C. § 1321 (k). Money
contaaned in this fund was to be used to finance the removal,
containment, or dispersal of oil and hazardous substances discharged into navigable waters and to defray the costs of
admnisterng the Act. 33 U S. C. § 1321 (1). Another section of the Act allowed the United States Government to
collect the costs of removal, containment, or dispersal of a
discharge from the person or corporation responsible for that
discharge in cases where that person or corporation had been
identified. 33 U S. C. § 1321 (f).
On or about March 23, 1975, oil escaped from an oil retention pit at a drilling facility located near Enid, Okla., and
eventually found its way into Boggie Creek, a tributary of
the Arkansas River system.' At the time of the discharge,
the premises were being leased by respondent L. 0 Ward, who
was doing business as L. 0 Ward Oil & Gas Operations. On
April 2, 1975, respondent Ward notified the regional office of
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that a discharge of oil had taken place. Ward later submitted a more
complete written report of the discharge, which was in turn
forwarded to the Coast Guard, the agency responsible for
assessing civil penalties under § 311 (b) (6)
After notice and opportunity for hearing, the Coast Guard
assessed a civil penalty against respondent in the amount
by such Secretary The Secretary of the Treasury shall withhold at the
request of such Secretary the clearance required by section 91 of Title 46
of any vessel the owner or operator of which is subject to the foregoing
penalty Clearance may be granted in such cases upon the filing of a bond
or other surety satisfactory to such Secretary"
6All parties concede that Boggie Creek is a "navigable water" within
the meaning of 33 U. S. C. § 1362 (7).

UNITED STATES v. WAR)

242

Opinion of the Court

of $500. Respondent filed an administrative appeal from this
ruling, contending, inter alia, that the reporting requirements
of § 311 (b) (5) of the Act violated his privilege against compulsory self-incrimnation. The administrative appeal was
denied.
On April 13, 1976, Ward filed suit in the United States District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma, seeking to
enjoin the Secretary of Transportation, the Commandant of
the Coast Guard, and the Administrator of EPA from enforcing §§ 311 (b) (5) and (6) and from collecting the penalty of
$500. On June 4, 1976, the United States filed a separate
suit in the same court to collect the unpaid penalty The
District Court eventually ordered the two suits consolidated
for trial.
Prior to trial, the District Court rejected Ward's contention
that the reporting requirements of § 311 (b) (5), as used to
support a civil penalty under § 311 (b) (6), violated his right
against compulsory self-incrimination. The case was tried to a
jury, which found that Ward's facility did, in fact, spill oil into
Boggie Creek. The District Court, however, reduced Ward's
penalty to $250 because of the amount of oil that had spilled
and because of its belief that Ward had been diligent in his
attempts to clean up the discharge after it had been discovered.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit
reversed. Ward v Coleman, 598 F 2d 1187 (1979) Although
admitting that Congress had labeled the penalty provided for
in § 311 (b) (6) as civil and that the use of funds collected
under that section to finance the administration of the Act
indicated a "remedial" purpose for the provision, the Court
of Appeals tested the statutory scheme against the standards
set forth in Kennedy v Mendoza-Martmez, 372 U S. 144,
168-169 (1963),' and held that § 311 (b) (6) was sufficiently
The standards set forth were "[w] hether the sanction involves an affirmative disability or restraint, whether it has historically been regarded
as a punshment, whether it comes into play only on a finding of sczenter,

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinon of the Court

448 U. S.

punitive to intrude upon the Fifth Amendment's protections
against compulsory self-incrimination. It therefore reversed
and remanded for further proceedings in the collection suit.
II
The distinction between a civil penalty and a criminal
penalty is of some constitutional import. The Self-Incrimination Clause of the Fifth Amendment, for example, is expressly limited to "any criminal case." Similarly, the protections provided by the Sixth Amendment are available only
in "criminal prosecutions." Other constitutional protections,
while not explicitly limited to one context or the other, have
been so limited by decision of this Court. See, e. g., Helverng v Mitchell, 303 U S. 391, 399 (1938) (Double Jeopardy
Clause protects only against two criminal punishments),
United States v Regan, 232 U S. 37, 47-48 (1914) (proof
beyond a reasonable doubt required only in criminal cases)
This Court has often stated that the question whether a
particular statutorily defined penalty is civil or criminal is a
matter of statutory construction. See, e. g., One Lot Emerald
Cut Stones v United States, 409 U S. 232, 237 (1972),
Helverng v Mitchell, supra, at 399. Our inquiry in this regard
has traditionally proceeded on two levels. First, we have
set out to determine whether Congress, in establishing the
penalizing mechanism, indicated either expressly or impliedly
a preference for one label or the other. See One Lot Emerald
Cut Stones v United States, supra, at 236-237 Second,
where Congress has indicated an intention to establish a
civil penalty, we have inquired further whether the statuwhether its operation will promote the traditional ais of pumshmentretribution and deterrence, whether the behavior to which it applies is
already a crime, whether an alternative purpose to which it may rationally
be connected is assignable for it, and whether it appears excessive in relation to the alternative purpose assigned.
" 372 U. S., at 168-169
(footnotes omitted).

UNITED STATES v. WARD

242

Opnion of the Court

tory scheme was so punitive either in purpose or effect as to
negate that intention. See Flemmsng v Nestor,363 U S. 603,
617-621 (1960) In regard to this latter inquiry, we have
noted that "only the clearest proof could suffice to establish
the unconstitutionality of a statute on such a ground." Id.,
at 617 See also One Lot Emerald Cut Stones v United
States, supra, at 237, Rex Trailer Co. v United States, 350
U S. 148, 154 (1956)
As for our first inquiry in the present case, we believe it
quite clear that Congress intended to impose a civil penalty
upon persons in Ward's position. Initially, and importantly,
Congress labeled the sanction authorized in § 311 (b) (6) a
"civil penalty," a label that takes on added significance given
its juxtaposition with the criminal penalties set forth in the
immediately preceding subparagraph, § 311 (b) (5)
Thus, we
have no doubt that Congress intended to allow imposition of
penalties under § 311 (b) (6) without regard to the procedural
protections and restrictions available in criminal prosecutions.
We turn then to consider whether Congress, despite its
manifest intention to establish a civil, remedial mechanism,
nevertheless provided for sanctions so punitive as to "transfor[m] what was clearly intended as a civil remedy into a
criminal penalty" Rex TrailerCo. v United States, supra,at
154. In making this determination, both the District Court
and the Court of Appeals found it useful to refer to the seven
considerations listed in Kennedy v Mendoza-Martinez, supra,
at 168-169. This list of considerations, while certainly neither
exhaustive nor dispositive, has proved helpful in our own
consideration of similar questions, see, e. g., Bell v Wolfish,
441 U. S. 520, 537-538 (1979), and provides some guidance
in the present case.
Without setting forth here our assessment of each of the
seven Mendoza-Martinez factors, we think only one, the fifth,
aids respondent. That is a consideration of whether "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opnon of the Court

448 U. S.

behavior to which [the penalty] applies is already a crime."
372 U S., at 168-169. In this regard, respondent contends
that § 13 of the Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of
1899, 33 U S. C. § 407, makes criminal the precise conduct
penalized in the present case. Moreover, respondent points
out that at least one federal court has held that § 13 of the
Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act defines a "strict hiability crime," for which the Government need prove no
scienter. See United States v White Fuel Corp., 498 F 2d
619 (CAI 1974) According to respondent, this confirms the
lower court's conclusion that this fifth factor "falls clearly in
favor of a finding that [§ 311 (b) (6)] is criminal in nature."
598 F 2d, at 1193.
While we agree that this consideration seems to point
toward a finding that § 311 (b) (6) is criminal in nature, that
indication is not as strong as it seems at first blush. We have
noted on a number of occasions that "Congress may impose
both a criminal and a civil sanction in respect to the same act
or omission." Helvenng v Mitchell, supra, at 399; One Lot
Emerald Cut Stones v United States, supra, at 235. Moreover, in Helverng, where we held a 50% penalty for tax
fraud to be civil, we found it quite significant that "the Revenue Act of 1928 contains two separate and distinct provisions
imposing sanctions," and that "these appear in different parts
" 303 U S., at 404. See also One Lot
of the statute.
Emerald Cut Stones v United States, supra, at 236-237
To the extent that we found significant the separation of civil
and criminal penalties within the same statute, we believe
that the placement of criminal penalties in one statute and the
placement of civil penalties in another statute enacted 70 years
later tends to dilute the force of the fifth Mendoza-Martinez
criterion in this case.
In sum, we believe that the factors set forth in MendozaMartinez, while neither exhaustive nor conclusive on the issue,
are in no way sufficient to render unconstitutional the congres-

UNITED STATES v. WARD
242

Opmion of the Court

sional classification of the penalty established in § 311 (b) (6)
as civil. Nor are we persuaded by any of respondent's other
arguments that he has offered the "clearest proof" that the
penalty here in question is punitive in either purpose or effect.
III
Our conclusion that § 311 (b) (6) does not trigger all the
protections afforded by the Constitution to a criminal defendant does not completely dispose of this case. Respondent
asserts that, even if the penalty imposed upon him was not
sufficiently criminal in nature to trigger other guarantees, it
was "quasi-crimial," and therefore sufficient to implicate the
Fifth Amendment's protection against compulsory self-icrimination. He relies primarily in this regard upon Boyd v
United States, 116 U. S. 616 (1886), and later cases quoting
its language.
In Boyd, appellants had been indicted under § 12 of an "Act
to amend the customs revenue laws and to repeal moieties,"
for fraudulently attempting to deprive the United States of
lawful customs duties payable on certain inported merchandise. According to the statute in question, a person found in
violation of its provisions was to be "fined in any sum not
exceeding $5,000 nor less than $50, or be imprisoned for any
time not exceeding two years, or both, and, in addition to such
fine, such merchandise shall be forfeited." 116 U S., at 617
Despite the pending indictment, appellants filed a claim for
the goods held by the Umted States. In response, the prosecutor obtained an order of the District Court requiring appellants to produce the invoice covering the goods at issue.
Appellants objected that such an order violated the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments by subjecting them to an unreasonable
search and seizure and by requiring them to act as witnesses
against themselves.
This Court found the Fifth Amendment applicable, even
though the action in question was one contesting the forfeiture

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opnion of the Court

448 U.S.

of certain goods. According to the Court: "We are
clearly of opinion that proceedings instituted for the purpose
of declaring the forfeiture of a man's property by reason of
offences committed by hin, though they may be civil in form,
are in their nature criminal." Id., at 633-634. While at this
point in its opinion, the Court seemed to limit its holding to
proceedings involving the forfeiture of property, shortly after
the quoted passage it broadened its reasoning in a manner
that might seem to apply to the present case. "As, therefore,
suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred by the commission
of offences against the law, are of this quasi-criminal nature,
we think that they are within the reason of criminal proceedmngs for all the purposes of the Fourth Amendment of the
Constitution, and of that portion of the Fifth Amendment
which declares that no person shall be compelled in any
criminal case to be a witness against himself.
"
Id., at
634 (emphasis added).
Seven years later, this Court relied primarily upon Boyd in
holding that a proceeding resulting in a "forfeit and penalty"
of $1,000 for violation of an Act prohibiting the employment
of aliens was sufficiently criminal to trigger the protections
of the Self-Incrimunation Clause of the Fifth Amendment.
Lees v United States, 150 U S. 476 (1893)
More recently,
in One 1958 Plymouth Sedan v Pennsylvana, 380 U S. 693
(1965), and United States v United States Corn & Currency,
401 U S.715 (1971), this Court applied Boyd to proceedings
involving the forfeiture of property for alleged criminal activity Plymouth Sedan dealt with the applicability of the
so-called exclusionary rule to a proceeding brought by the
State of Pennsylvania to secure the forfeiture of a ear
allegedly involved in the illegal transportation of liquor.
Con & Currency involved the applicability of the Fifth
Amendment privilege against compulsory self-incrimination
in a proceeding brought by the United States to secure for-

UNITED STATES v. WARD

242

Opnion of the Court

feiture of $8,674 found in the possession of a gambler at the
time of his arrest.
Read broadly, Boyd might control the present case. This
Court has declined, however, to give full scope to the reasonmg and dicta in Boyd, noting on at least one occasion that
"[s] everal of Boyd's express or implicit declarations have not
stood the test of tune." Fisher v United States, 425 U S.
In United States v Regan, 232 U S. 37
391, 407 (1976)
(1914), for example, we declined to apply Boyd's classification
of penalties and forfeitures as criminal in a case where a
defendant assessed with a $1,000 penalty for violation of the
Alien Immigration Act claimed that he was entitled to have
the Government prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt.
Boyd and Lees, according to Regan, were limited in scope to
the Fifth Amendment's guarantee against compulsory selfincrimination, which "is of broader scope than are the guarantees in Art. III and the Sixth Amendment governing trials
and criminal prosecutions." 232 U S., at 50. See also Helverng v Mitchell, 303 U S., at 400, n. 3. Similarly, in Hepner v United States, 213 U S. 103 (1909), this Court upheld
the entry of a directed verdict against the appellant under a
statute similar to that examined in Lees. According to
Hepner, "the Lees and Boyd cases do not modify or disturb
but recognize the general rule that penalties may be recovered
by civil actions, although such actions may be so far criminal
in their nature that the defendant cannot be compelled to
testify against himself in such actions in respect to any matters involving, or that may involve, his being guilty of a
criminal offense." Id., at 112.
The question before us, then, is whether the penalty
imposed in this case, although clearly not "criminal" enough
to trigger the protections of the Sixth Amendment, the Double Jeopardy Clause of the Fifth Amendment, or the other
procedural guarantees normally associated with criminal
prosecutions, is nevertheless "so far criminal in [its] nature"

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion of the Court

4481. S.

as to trigger the Self-Incrimnation Clause of the Fifth
Amendment. Initially, we note that the penalty and proceeding considered in Boyd were quite different from those
considered in this case. Boyd dealt with forfeiture of property, a penalty that had absolutely no correlation to any damages sustained by society or to the cost of enforcing the law
See also Lees v United States, supra (fixed monetary penalty), One 1958 Plymouth Sedan v Pennsylvanz, supra (forfeiture), United States v United States Con & Currency,
supra (forfeiture) Here the penalty is much more analogous
to traditional civil damages. Moreover, the statute under
scrutiny in Boyd listed forfeiture along with fine and imprisonment as one possible punishment for customs fraud, a fact
of some significance to the Boyd Court. See 116 U S., at
634. Here, as previously stated, the civil remedy and the
criminal remedy are contained in separate statutes enacted
70 years apart. The proceedings in Boyd also posed a danger
that the appellants would prejudice themselves in respect to
later criminal proceedings. See Hepner v United States,
supra, at 112. Here, respondent is protected by § 311 (b) (5),
which expressly provides that "[n]otification received pursuant to this paragraph or information obtained by the exploitation of such notification shall not be used against any such
person in any criminal case, except [for] prosecution for
perjury or for giving a false statement." 33 U S. C. § 1321

(b) (5).
More importantly, however, we believe that in the light of
what we have found to be overwhelming evidence that Congress intended to create a penalty civil in all respects and
quite weak evidence of any countervailing punitive purpose
or effect it would be quite anomalous to hold that § 311 (b)
(6) created a criminal penalty for the purposes of the SelfIncrimination Clause but a civil penalty for all other purposes.
We do not read Boyd as requiring a contrary conclusion.

UNITED STATES v. WARD
242

BLmc

J., concurring m judgment
NuN,

IV
We conclude that the penalty imposed by Congress was
civil, and that the proceeding in which it was imposed was
not "quasi-crimial" as that term is used in Boyd v United
States, supra. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is
therefore
Reversed.
UN, with whom MR.
joins, concurring in the judgment.

MR. JUSTICE BILACK
sHITz

JusTicE

MAR-

I agree with the Court that a proceeding for assessment of
a monetary penalty under § 311 (b) (6) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act, 33 U S. C. § 1321 (b) (6), is not a
"criminal case" within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment.
I reach this conclusion, however, for a number of reasons in
addition to those discussed in the Court's opinion.
The Court of Appeals engaged in a careful analysis of the
standards set forth in Kennedy v Mendoza-Martmez, 372
U. S. 144, 168-169 (1963), for distinguishing civil from criminal proceedings. These standards are cataloged in a footnote
of the Court's opinion. Ante, at 247-248, n. 7 The Court of
Appeals concluded that some of the seven stated factors
offered little guidance in this case, while others supported a
"crminal" designation. In particular, it found that scienter
played a part in determining the amount of penalty assessments; that the penalties promote traditional retributive
aims of punishment, that behavior giving rise to the assessment is subject to criminal punishment under § 13 of the
Rivers and Harbors Appropriation Act of 1899, 33 U S. C.
§ 407, and that the criteria employed by the Coast Guard to
set the amount of assessments permit penalties that may be
excessive m relation to alternative remedial or nonpunitive
purposes. Ward v Coleman, 598 F 2d 1187, 1192-1194
(CA10 1979). The Court is content to discuss only one of

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
BLAcKmuN, J., concurnng m judgment

4481U. S.

these findings. See ante, at 249-250. Because of the consideration given the others by the Court of Appeals, I think
they deserve brief discussion, too.
My analysis of these other factors differs from that of the
Court of Appeals in two principal respects. First, I do not
agree with that court's apparent conclusion that none of the
Mendoza-Martmez factors strongly supports a "civil" designation for a penalty proceeding under § 311 (b) (6). I conclude that imposition of a monetary penalty under this statute
does not result in the imposition of an "affirmative disability
or restraint" within the meaning of Mendoza-Martnez, 372
U S., at 168, that monetary assessments are traditionally a
form of civil remedy; and that, as the Court of Appeals conceded, 598 F 2d., at 1193, § 311 (b) (6) serves remedial purposes dissociated from punishment. Although any one of
these considerations by itself might not weigh heavily m favor
of a "civil" designation, I think that cumulatively they point
significantly in that direction.
Second, I would assign less weight to the role of scienter,
the promotion of penal objectives, and the potential excessiveness of fines than did the Court of Appeals. MendozaMartmez suggested that a sanction that "comes into play only
on a finding of scienter" might be indicative of a criminal proceeding. 372 U S., at 168 (first emphasis added) Plainly,
that is not the case here. Scienter is not mentioned on the
face of the statute, and it is only one of many factors relevant
to determination of an assessment under Coast Guard Commandant Instruction 5922.11B (Oct. 10, 1974) Furthermore,
although the fines conceivably could be used to promote primarily deterrent or retributive ends, the fact that collected
assessments are deposited in a revolving fund used to defray
the expense of cleanup operations is a strong indicator of the
pervasively civil and compensatory thrust of the statutory
scheme. See § 311 (k), 33 U S. C. § 1321 (k) Finally,
while some of the factors employed by the Coast Guard to set

UNITED STATES v. WARD
242

SEav

s, J., dissenting

the amount of assessments undoubtedly could be used to
exact excessive penalties, others are expressly related to the
cost of cleanup and other remedial considerations. In the
absence of evidence that excessive penalties actually have
been assessed, I would be inclined to regard their likelihood
as remote.
For these reasons, I agree with the Court that only the
fifth Mendoza-Martmez factor, "whether the behavior to
which [the sanction] applies is already a crnne," 372 U S.,
at 168, supports the respondent. Since I feel that this factor
alone does not mandate characterization of the proceeding as
"criminal" for purposes of the Fifth Amendment, particularly
when other factors weigh in the opposite direction, I concur
in the judgment.
MIR. JUSTICE STEVENS, dissenting.
There are a host of situations in which the Government
requires the citizen to provide it with information that may
later be useful in proving that the citizen has some liability
to the Government. In determining whether the combination of compulsion and liability is consistent with the Fifth
Amendment, I would look to two factors: first, whether the
liability actually nposed on the citizen is properly characterized as "crimnal" and second, if so, whether the compulsion
of information was designed to assist the Government in
imposing such a penalty rather than furthering some other
valid regulatory purpose.
Although this case is admittedly a close one, I am persuaded that the monetary penalty imposed on respondent
pursuant to § 311 (b) (6) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U S. C. § 1321 (b) (6), was a "criminal" sanction
for purposes of the Fifth Amendment protection against
compelled self-incrimination. As the Court of Appeals
pointed out, penalties under § 311 (b) (6) are not calculated
to reimburse the Government for the cost of cleaning up an

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
ST ENs, J., dissenting

448 U.S.

oil spill.' Rather, this part of the statute is clearly aimed
at exacting retribution for causing the spill.
"The penalties are based on such factors as the gravity
of the violation, the degree of culpability and the prior
record of the party The fact that a party acted in good
faith, could not have avoided the discharge and, once it
occurred, undertook clean-up measures immediately is to
be given no consideration in relation to the 'imposition
or amount of a civil penalty'" Ward v Coleman, 598
F 2d 1187, 1193 (CA10 1979)
I agree with the Court of Appeals that, under these circumstances, application of the factors set forth in Kennedy v
Mendoza-Martinez, 372 U S. 144, leads to the conclusion
that the penalty is a criminal sanction rather than a purely
regulatory measure.
That is not the end of the inquiry, however. A reporting
requirement is not necessarily invalid simply because it may
incriminate a few of the many people to whom it applies.
Two examples from the tax field will illustrate my point.
As this Court held in Marchettz v United States, 390 U S.
39, and Grosso v United States, 390 U S. 62, statutes that
are plainly designed to obtain information from a limited
class of persons engaged in criminal activity in order to facilitate their prosecution and conviction are invalid under the
Fifth Amendment. On the other hand, when the general income tax laws require a full reporting of each taxpayer's
income in order to fulfill the Government's regulatory objectives, the fact that a particular answer may incriminate a
particular taxpayer is not a sufficient excuse for refusing to
1

An owner or operator is liable for cleanup costs or, in the event that
the discharge is "nonremovable," for liquidated damages under 33 U. S. C.
§ 1321 (b) (2) (B) (i) and § 1321 (f). As the Court of Appeals noted, payment of these damages does not relieve the owner or operator of liability
for civil penalties under § 311 (b) (6). Ward v. Coleman, 598 F 2d 1187,
1191 (CA10 1978).

UNITED STATES v. WARD
242

STEvwNS, J., dissenting

supply the relevant information required from every tax-

See United States v Oliver, 505 F 2d 301, 307-308
(CA7 1974) 2
Thus, given that the statutory penalty in this case is a

payer.

criminal sanction, the issue becomes what the primary purpose of requiring the citizen to report oil spills is. If it is to

simplify the assessment and collection of penalties from those
responsible, it should fall within the reasoning of Marchetts

and Grosso. On the other hand, if the requirement is merely
to assist the Government in its cleanup responsibilities and
2As I suggested in Oliver"The enactment of special legislation designed to procure mininating
disclosures from a select group of persons engaged in criminal conduct
was tantamount to an accusation commencing criminal proceedings against
them. The statutory demand to register as a gambler was comparable
to the inquisitor's demand that a suspect in custody admit his guilt. The
admission, once made, would almost inevitably become a part of the
record of a criminal proceeding against a person who had already been
accused when he confessed. Just as the Miranda decision may be read as
having enlarged the adversary proceeding to commence when the accused is first taken into custody, Marchetti and comparable cases have,
for Fifth Amendment purposes, treated special statutes designed to secure
mennimnating information from inherently suspect classes of persons as
the commencement of criminal proceedings against those from whom
incriminating information is demanded. Under this analysis, we must
test the applicability of the Fifth Amendment to a self-reporting statute
at the time that disclosure is compelled.
"The statute which defendant Oliver is accused of violating is applicable to the public at large, and its demands for information are neutral
in the sense that they apply evenly to the few who have illegal earnings
and the many who do not. The self-reporting requirements of the
Internal Revenue Code are justified by acceptable reasons of policy,
entirely unrelated to any purpose to obtain incriminating evidence against
an accused person or group. Therefore, even though the disclosure of
defendant's illegal income was compelled by statute, and even though
we assume that such disclosure might well have been incriminating, the
Marchetti holding does not justify the conclusion that the Fifth Amendment excuses defendant's obligation to report his entire income." (Footnotes omitted.) 505 F 2d, at 307-308.

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
STmNs, J., dissenting

4481U. S.

in its efforts to monitor the conditions of the Nation's waterways, it should be permissible. Although the question is
again a close one, the automatic nature of the statutory penalty, which must be assessed in each and every case, convinces
me that the reporting requirement is a form of compelled
self-incrimination.' I therefore respectfully dissent.

3

As a result, I would hold that the Government could not use a report
filed by an individual owner or operator m assessing a civil penalty
under § 311 (b) (6). However, I believe the Government could still use
such a report m assessing damages under either § 311 (b) (2) (B) (i) or
§ 311 (f), see n. 1, supra, since penalties assessed under those subsections
are regulatory rather than punitive m character.

