OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Syllabus

448 U.S.

RAWLINGS v KENTUCKY
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY

No. 79-5146.

Argued March 26, 1980-Decided June 25, 1980

When police officers, armed with a warrant to arrest one Marquess, arrived
at his house, another resident of the house and four visitors, including
petitioner, were there. While searching the house unsuccessfully for
Marquess, several officers smelled marihuana smoke and saw marihuana
seeds. Two of the officers left to obtain a warrant to search the house,
and the other officers detained the occupants, allowing them to leave
only if they consented to a body search. About 45 minutes later, the
officers returned with the search warrant; the warrant was read to the
remaming occupants, including petitioner, and they were also given
"Miranda" warnings; and one Cox, an occupant, was ordered to empty
her purse, which contained drugs that were controlled substances under
Kentucky law. Cox told petitioner, who was standing nearby in
response to an officer's command, "to take what was his," and petitioner
immediately claimed ownership of the drugs. At that time, an officer
searched petitioner, finding $4,500 in cash and a knife, and petitioner
was then formally arrested. Petitioner was indicted for possessing with
intent to sell the controlled substances recovered from Cox's purse, and
the Kentucky trial court denied petitioner's motion to suppress, as
fruits of an illegal detention and illegal searches, the drugs, the money,
and the statements made by him when the police discovered the drugs.
Petitioner's conviction was affirmed by the Kentucky Court of Appeals,
and the Kentucky Supreme Court in turn affirmed, holding that petitioner had no "standing" to contest the search of Cox's purse because
he had no legitimate or reasonable expectation of freedom from governmental intrusion into the purse, and that the search uncovering the
money in petitioner's pocket was justifiable as incident to a lawful arrest
based on probable cause.
Held.
1. The conclusion that petitioner did not sustain his burden of proving that he had a legitimate expectation of privacy m Cox's purse so as
to allow hin to challenge the validity of the search of the purse is supported by the record, which includes petitioner's admission at the suppression hearing that he did not believe that the purse would be free
from governmental intrusion. Nor was petitioner entitled to challenge

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY
Syllabus

98

the search, regardless of his expectation of privacy, merely because he
claimed ownership of the drugs in the purse. While petitioner's ownership of the drugs is one fact to be considered, "arcane" concepts of
property law do not control the ability to claim the protections of the
Fourth Amendment. Cf. Rakas v. Illinozs, 439 U. S. 128. Pp. 104-106.
2. Under the totality of circumstances present (the giving of Miranda
warnings, the short lapse of time between petitioner's detention and his
admissions being outweighed by the "congenial atmosphere" in the house
during this interval, his admissions being apparently spontaneous reactions to the discovery of the drugs in Cox's purse, the police conduct
not appearing to rise to the level of conscious or flagrant misconduct
requiring prophylactic exclusion of petitioner's admissions, and petitioner
not having argued that his admissions were anything other than voluntary), Kentucky carried its burden of showing that petitioner's statements to the police admitting his ownership of the drugs were acts of
free will unaffected by any illegality in his detention, assuming, arguendo,
that the police violated the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments by
detaining petitioner and his compamons in the house while they obtained
a search warrant. Cf. Brown v. lllinozs, 422 U. S. 590. Pp. 106-110.
3. The search of petitioner's person that uncovered the money and
the knife was valid as incident to his formal arrest. Once he admitted
ownership of the drugs found in Cox's purse, the police had probable
cause to arrest him, and where the arrest followed quickly after the
search of petitioner's person it is not important that the search preceded
the arrest rather than vice versa. Pp. 110-111.
581 S. W 2d 348, affirmed.
REHmuIST, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and BICKM UN, POWELL, and STE ENs, JJ., joined, and in Parts I
and II-A of which STEWART and WHiTE, JJ., joined. BLACKMUN, J., filed

a concurring opinion, post, p. 111.

WHITE, J., filed an opinion concuring

in part, in which STEWART, J., joined, post, p. 113.

MAisH.LL, J., filed a

dissenting opinion, in which BRENNAN, J., joined, post, p. 114.

J Vincent Aprile II argued the cause and filed briefs for

petitioner.
Victor Fox, Assistant Attorney General of Kentucky, argued the cause for respondent.

With him on the brief were

Steven L. Beshear, Attorney General, and Gerald Henry and
Patrick B. Kimberlin III, Assistant Attorneys General.

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opinon of the Court

448 U. S.

MR. JusmcE REINQuiST delivered the opinion of the Court.

Petitioner David Rawlings was convicted by the Commonwealth of Kentucky on charges of trafficking in, and possession
of, various controlled substances. Throughout the proceedings below, Rawlings challenged the admissibility of certain
evidence and statements on the ground that they were the
fruits of an illegal detention and illegal searches. The trial
court, the Kentucky Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court
of Kentucky all rejected Rawlings' challenges. We granted
certiorari, 444 U S. 989, and now affirm.
I
In the middle of the afternoon on October 18, 1976, six
police officers armed with a warrant for the arrest of one
Lawrence Marquess on charges of drug distribution arrived
at Marquess' house in Bowling Green, Ky In the house at
the time the police arrived were one of Marquess' housemates,
Dennis Saddler, and four visitors, Keith Northern, Linda
Braden, Vanessa Cox, and petitioner David Rawlings. While
searching unsuccessfully in the house for Marquess, several
police officers smelled marihuana smoke and saw marihuana
seeds on the mantel in one of the bedrooms. After conferring
briefly, Officers Eddie Railey and John Bruce left to obtain a
search warrant. While Railey and Bruce were gone, the other
four officers detained the occupants of the house in the living
room, allowing them to leave only if they consented to a body
search. Northern and Braden did consent to such a search
and were permitted to depart. Saddler, Cox, and petitioner
remained seated in the living room.
Approximately 45 minutes later, Railey and Bruce returned
with a warrant authorizing them to search the house. Railey
read the warrant to Saddler, Cox, and petitioner, and also
read "Miranda"warnings from a card he carried in his pocket.
At that time, Cox was seated on a couch with petitioner seated
to her left. In the space between them was Cox's handbag.
After Railey finished his recitation, he approached petitioner

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY
98

Opinion of the Court

and told him to stand. Officer Don Bivens simultaneously
approached Cox and ordered her to empty the contents of her
purse onto a coffee table in front of the couch. Among those
contents were a jar containing 1,800 tablets of LSD and a
number of smaller vials containing benzphetamnne, methamphetamie, methyprylan, and pentobarbital, all of which are
controlled substances under Kentucky law
Upon pouring these objects out onto the coffee table, Cox
turned to petitioner and told him "to take what was his."
App. 62. Petitioner, who was standing in response to Officer
Railey's command, immediately claimed ownership of the controlled substances. At that time, Railey searched petitioner's
person and found $4,500 in cash in petitioner's shirt pocket
and a knife in a sheath at petitioner's side. Railey then
placed petitioner under formal arrest.
Petitioner was indicted for possession with intent to sell
the various controlled substances recovered from Cox's purse.
At the suppression hearing, he testified that he had flown into
Bowling Green about a week before his arrest to look for a job
and perhaps to attend the local university He brought with
him at that time the drugs later found in Cox's purse. Initially, petitioner stayed in the house where the arrest took
place as the guest of Micnael Swank, who shared the house
with Marquess and Saddler. While at a party at that house,
he met Cox and spent at least two nights of the next week on
a couch at Cox's house.
On the morning of petitioner's arrest, Cox had dropped him
off at Swank's house where he waited for her to return from
class. At that time, he was carrying the drugs in a green
bank bag. When Cox returned to the house to meet him,
petitioner dumped the contents of the bank bag into Cox's
purse. Although there is dispute over the discussion that took
place, petitioner testified that he "asked her if she would carry
" App. 42.1 Petitioner
this for me, and she said, 'yes'
IAt petitioner's trial, Vanessa Cox described the transfer of possession
quite differently She testified that, as she and petitioner were getting

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion of the Court

448 U. S.

then left the room to use the bathroom and, by the time he
returned, discovered that the police had arrived to arrest
Marquess.
The trial court denied petitioner's motion to suppress the
drugs and the money and to exclude the statements made by
petitioner when the police discovered the drugs. According to
the trial court, the warrant obtained by the police authorized
them to search Cox's purse. Moreover, even if the search of
the purse was illegal, the trial court believed that petitioner
lacked "standing" to contest that search. Finally, the trial
court believed that the search that revealed the money and
the knife was permissible "under the exigencies of the situation." Id., at 21. After a bench trial, petitioner was found
guilty of possession with intent to sell LSD and of possession
of benzphetamine, methamphetamine, methyprylan, and
pentobarbital.
ready to leave the house, petitioner asked "would you please carry this
for me" and simultaneously dumped the drugs into her purse. According to Cox, she looked into her purse, saw the drugs, and said "would
you please take this, I do not want this in my purse." Petitioner allegedly
replied "okay, just a minute, I will," and then went out of the room. At
that point the police entered the house. Tr. 12-14. David Saddler, who
was in the next room at the time of the transfer, corroborated Cox's version of the events, testifying that he heard Cox say "I do not want this
in my purse" and that he heard petitioner reply "don't worry" or something to that effect. Id., at 100.
Although none of the lower courts specifically found that Cox did not
consent to the bailment, the trial court clearly was skeptical about petitioner's version of events:
"The Court finds it unbelievable that just of his own volition, David
Rawlings put the contraband in the purse of Mrs. Cox just a minute before
the officers knocked on the door. He had been carrying these things
around Bowling Green in a bank deposit sack for days, either on his
person or in his pocket, and it is unworthy of belief that just immediately
before the officers knocked on the door that he put them in the purse of
Vanessa Cox. It is far more plausible to believe that he saw the officers
pull up out front and then elected to 'push them off' on Vanessa Cox,
believing that search was probable, possible, and eminnnent [sw]."
App. 21.

RAWLINGS v. KENTUOKY

98

Opinion of the Court

The Kentucky Court of Appeals affirmed. Disagreeing
with the trial court, the appellate court held that petitioner
did have "standing" to dispute the legality of the search of
Cox's purse but that the detention of the five persons present
in the house and the subsequent searches were legitimate
because the police had probable cause to arrest all five people
in the house when they smelled the marihuana smoke and saw
the marihuana seeds.
The Supreme Court of Kentucky in turn affirmed, but again
on a somewhat different rationale. See 581 S. W 2d 348
(1979)
According to the Supreme Court, petitioner had no
"standing" because he had no "legitimate or reasonable expectation of freedom from governmental intrusion" into Cox's
purse. Id., at 350, citing Rakas v Illinois, 439 U S. 128
(1978)
Moreover, according to the Supreme Court, the
search uncovering the money in petitioner's pocket, which
search followed petitioner's admission that he owned the drugs
in Cox's purse, was justifiable as incident to a lawful arrest
based on probable cause.
II
In this Court, petitioner challenges three aspects of the
judgment below First, he claims that he did have a reasonable expectation of privacy in Cox's purse so as to allow him
to challenge the legality of the search of that purse.2 Second,
petitioner argues that his admission of ownership was the
fruit of an illegal detention that began when the police refused
to let the occupants of the house leave unless they consented
to a search. Third, petitioner contends that the search uncovering the money and the knife was itself illegal.
2Petitioner also claims that he is entitled to "automatic standing" to
contest the legality of the search that uncovered the drugs. See Jones v.
United States, 362 U. S. 257 (1960). Our decision today in United

States v. SaIvucct, ante, p. 83, disposes of this contention adversely to

him.

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion of the Court

448 U. S.

A
In holding that petitioner could not challenge the legality
of the search of Cox's purse, the Supreme Court of Kentucky
looked primarily to our then recent decision in Rakas v I//inots, supra, where we abandoned a separate inquiry into a
defendant's "standing" to contest an allegedly illegal search
in favor of an inquiry that focused directly on the substance of
the defendant's claim that he or she possessed a "legitimate
expectation of privacy" in the area searched. See Katz v
United States, 389 U S. 347 (1967). In the present case, the
Supreme Court of Kentucky looked to the "totality of the
circumstances," including petitioner's own admission at the
suppression hearing that he did not believe that Cox's purse
would be free from governmental intrusion,' and held that
petitioner "[had] not made a sufficient showing that his legitimate or reasonable expectations of privacy were violated" by
the search of the purse. 581 S. W 2d, at 350.
We believe that the record in this case supports that conclusion. Petitioner, of course, bears the burden of proving not
only that the search of Cox's purse was illegal, but also that
he had a legitimate expectation of privacy in that purse. See
3 Under questioning by his own counsel, petitioner testified as follows:
"Q72 Did you feel that Vannessa [sic] Cox's purse would be free from the
intrusion of the officers as you sat there? When you put the pills in
her purse, did you feel that they would be free from governmental
intrusion?
"A No sir." App. 48.
The trial court also credited this statement, noting unmediately"
"You know what, I believe this boy tells the truth. You all wanted
to bring him in here before the Court, and he said, 'no, I want a jury'
He said 'no, I don't understand that.' And I don't blame him for not
understanding that. That's the first time I've ever seen such a thing
brought on before this Court, and I've been here for quite a few years
as an attorney, of course.
"Now, no question but what the boy fully understood what was meant
by that. None at all in the Court's mind. If you want to go ahead,
you can do so."
id.

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY
98

Opunon of the Court

Rakas v Illinots, supra, at 131, n. 1, Simmons v United
States, 390 U S. 377, 389-390 (1968)
At the time petitioner
dumped thousands of dollars worth of illegal drugs into Cox's
purse, he had known her for only a few days. According to
Cox's uncontested testimony, petitioner had never sought or
received access to her purse prior to that sudden bailment.
Contrast Jones v United States, 362 U S. 257, 259 (1960)
Nor did petitioner have any right to exclude other persons
from access to Cox's purse. See Rakas v Illinozs, supra, at
149. In fact, Cox testified that Bob Stallons, a longtime
acquaintance and frequent companion of Cox's, had free access
to her purse and on the very morning of the arrest had rummaged through its contents m search of a hairbrush. Moreover, even assuming that petitioner's version of the bailment
is correct and that Cox did consent to the transfer of possession,4 the precipitous nature of the transaction hardly supports
a reasonable inference that petitioner took normal precautions
to maintain his privacy Contrast United States v Chadwnck,
433 U. S. 1, 11 (1977), Katz v United States, supra, at
352. In addition to all the foregoing facts, the record also
contains a frank admission by petitioner that he had no subjective expectation that Cox's purse would remain free from
governmental intrusion, an admission credited by both the
trial court and the Supreme Court of Kentucky See n. 3,
supra, and accompanying text.
Petitioner contends nevertheless that, because he claimed
ownership of the drugs in Cox's purse, he should be entitled to
challenge the search regardless of his expectation of privacy
We disagree. While petitioner's ownership of the drugs is
undoubtedly one fact to be considered in this case, Rakas
emphatically rejected the notion that "arcane" concepts of
property law ought to control the ability to clan the protections of the Fourth Amendment. See 439 U S., at 149-150,
n. 17 See also United States v Salvuccz, ante, at 91-92.
4 But see n. 1, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinon of the Court

448 U. S.

Had petitioner placed his drugs in plain view, he would still
have owned them, but he could not claim any legitimate
expectation of privacy Prior to Rakas, petitioner might
have been given "standing" in such a case to challenge a
"search" that netted those drugs but probably would have
lost his claim on the merits. After Rakas, the two inquiries
merge into one whether governmental officials violated any
legitimate expectation of privacy held by petitioner.
In sum, we find no reason to overturn the lower court's conclusion that petitioner had no legitimate expectation of privacy in Cox's purse at the time of the search.
B
We turn, then, to petitioner's contention that the occupants of the house were illegally detained by the police and
that his admission to ownership of the drugs was a fruit of
that illegal detention. Somewhat surprisingly, none of the
courts below confronted this issue squarely, even though it
would seem to be presented under any analysis of this case
except that adopted by the Kentucky Court of Appeals, which
concluded that the police officers were entitled to arrest the
five occupants of the house as soon as they smelled marihuana
smoke and saw the marihuana seeds.
We can assume both that this issue was properly presented
in the Kentucky courts and that the police violated the Fourth
and Fourteenth Amendments by detaining petitioner and his
companions in the house while they obtained a search warrant for the premises. Even given such a constitutional violation, however, exclusion of petitioner's admissions would not
be necessary unless his statements were the result of his illegal
detention. As we noted in Brown v Illinozs, 422 U S. 590,
603 (1975), where we rejected a "but for" approach to the
admissibility of such statements, "persons arrested illegally
frequently may decide to confess, as an act of free will unaffected by the initial illegality" In Brown we also set forth

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY
98

Opnion of the Court

the standard for determining whether such statements were
tainted by antecedent illegality"The question whether a confession is the product of a
free will
must be answered on the facts of each case.
No single fact is dispositive.
The Miranda warnings
are an important factor, to be sure, in determining
whether the confession is obtained by exploitation of an
illegal arrest. But they are not the only factor to be
considered. The temporal proximity of the arrest and
the confession, the presence of intervening circumstances,
and, particularly, the purpose and flagrancy of the official
misconduct are all relevant. The voluntariness of the
statement is a threshold requirement. And the burden
of showing admissibility rests, of course, on the prosecution." Id., at 603-604 (footnotes and citations omitted)
See also Dunaway v New York, 442 U. S. 200, 218 (1979).
As already noted, the lower courts did not undertake the
inquiry suggested by Brown. Nevertheless, as in Brown itself,
we believe that "the trial resulted in a record of amply sufficient detail and depth from which the determination may be
made." 422 U S., at 604.
First, we observe that petitioner received Mirandawarnings
only moments before he made his incriminating statements, a
consideration Brown treated as important, although not dispositive, in determining whether the statements at issue were
obtained by exploitation of an illegal detention.
Second, Brown calls our attention to the "temporal proximity of the arrest and the confession.
" Id., at 603. In this
case, petitioner and his companions were detained for a period
of approximately 45 minutes. Although under the strictest
of custodial conditions such a short lapse of time might not
suffice to purge the initial taint, we believe it necessary to
examine the precise conditions under which the occupants of
this house were detained. By all accounts, the three people
who chose not to consent to a body search in order to leave sat

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opmion of the Court

448 U. S.

quietly in the living room or, at least initially, moved freely
about the first floor of the house. Upon being informed that
he would be detained until Officers Railey and Bruce returned
with a search warrant, Dennis Saddler "just went on in and
got a cup of coffee and sat down and started waiting" for the
officers to return. Tr. 109. When asked by petitioner's counsel whether there was "any show of force or violence by you or
Dave or anybody else," Saddler explained.
"A Oh, no. One person tried to sick my four and a half
month old dog on one of the officers. (laughing)
"Q48 You're saying that in a joking manner?
"A Yeah. He just wagged his tail.
"Q49 And other than that, that's the most violent thing
you proposed toward these police officers; is that correct?
"A Yes sir. I would-they were more or less courteous
to us and were trying to be-we offered them coffee or a
drink of water or whatever they wanted." Id., at 113.
According to Saddler, petitioner's first reaction when the officers told him that he would be detained pending issuance of a
search warrant was to "[get] up and put an album on.
Id., at 110. As even the dissenting judge in the Court of
Appeals noted. "[A]ll witnesses for both sides of this litigation agreed to the congenial atmosphere existing during the
forty-five minute interval.
" App. 73 (Lester, J., dissenting) We think that these circumstances outweigh the relatively short period of time that elapsed between the initiation
of the detention and petitioner's admissions.
Third, Brown suggests that we inquire whether any circumstances intervened between the initial detention and the
challenged statements. Here, where petitioner's admissions
were apparently spontaneous reactions to the discovery of
his drugs in Cox's purse, we have little doubt that this factor
weighs heavily in favor of a finding that petitioner acted "of
free will unaffected by the initial illegality" 422 U S., at

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY

98

Opnion of the Court

603. Nor need we speculate as to petitioner's motivations in
admitting ownership of the drugs, since he explained them
later to Lawrence Marquess and Dennis Saddler. Under
examination by petitioner's counsel, Marquess testified as
follows:
"Q1 Mr. Marquess, when you were talking to David
Rawlings in the jail, and he told you that the things were
dumped out on the table and that he admitted they were
his, did he tell you why he did that?
"A Well, he said Vanessa [Cox] was freaking out, you
know, or something.
"Q2 Did he tell you that he did that to protect her or
words to that effect?
"A Well, now, I mean he said he was going to take
what was his, I mean, he wasn't going to try to pin that
on her." Tr. 130.
Saddler offered additional insight into petitioner's motivations:
"Q114 Did Dave Rawlings make any statements to you
in jail about any of these substances?
"A Yes sir.
"Q115 And would you tell the Court what statements he
made'
"A Well, his main concern was whether or not Vanessa
Cox was going to say anything, and he just kept talking
and harping on that, and I don't know how many times
he mentioned it, you know, 'I hope she doesn't break,' or
hope she doesn't talk. And I saw her walking on the
sidewalk through the windows and got a little upset
about that because we all thought she turned State's evidence." Id., at 103.
Fourth, Brown mandates consideration of "the purpose and
flagrancy of the official misconduct.
" 422 U S., at 604.
The officers who detained petitioner and his companions uniformly testified that they took those measures to avoid the

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opinion of the Court

448 U. S.

asportation or destruction of the marihuana they thought was
present ]f the house and that they believed that a warrant
authorizing them to search the house would also authorize
them to search the five occupants of the house. While the
legality of temporarily detaining a person at the scene of suspected drug activity to secure a search warrant may be an
open question, and while the officer's belief about the scope of
the warrant they obtained may well have been erroneous
under our recent decision in Ybarra v Illinois, 444 U S. 85
(1979), the conduct of the police here does not rise to the
level of conscious or flagrant misconduct requiring prophylactic exclusion of petitioner's statements. Contrast Brown v
Illinoss, supra, at 605.
Finally, while Brown requires that the voluntariness of the
statement be established as a threshold requirement, petitioner has not argued here or in any other court that his admission to ownership of the drugs was anything other than
voluntary
Thus, examinmg the totality of circumstances
present in this case, we believe that the Commonwealth of
Kentucky has carried its burden of showing that petitioner's
statements were acts of free will unaffected by any illegality
in the initial detention.

C
Petitioner also contends that the search of his person that
uncovered the money and the knife was illegal. Like the
5 "The reasonableness of seizures that are less intrusive than a traditional arrest, see Dunaway v New York, 442 U. S. 200, 209-210 (1979),
Terry v Ohw, 392 U. S. 1, 20 (1968), depends 'on a balance between the
public interest and the individual's right to personal security free from
arbitrary interference by law officers.' Pennsylvanza v. Mimms, 434 U. S.
106, 109 (1977), United States v Bngnom-Ponce, [422 U. S. 873, 878
(1975)]. Consideration of the constitutionality of such seizures involves
a weighing of the gravity of the public concerns served by the seizure, the
degree to which the seizure advances the public interest, and the severity
of the interference with individual liberty" Brown v. Texas, 443 U. S.
47, 50-51 (1979).

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY
98

BLAcx, uw, J., coneurrng

Supreme Court of Kentucky, we have no difficulty upholding
this search as incident to petitioner's formal arrest. Once
petitioner admitted ownership of the sizable quantity of drugs
found in Cox's purse, the police clearly had probable cause to
place petitioner under arrest. Where the formal arrest followed quickly on the heels of the challenged search of petitioner's person, we do not believe it particularly important
that the search preceded the arrest rather than vice versa. See
Bailey v United States, 128 U S. App. D C. 354, 357, 389 F
2d 305, 308 (1967), United States v Brown, 150 U S. App.
See also Cupp v
D C. 113, 114, 463 F 2d 949, 950 (1972)
Murphy, 412 U S. 291 (1973), United States v Gorman, 355
F 2d 151, 160 (CA2 1965) (dictum), cert. denied, 384 U S.
1024 (1966) '
III
Having found no error in the lower courts' refusal to suppress the evidence challenged by petitioner, we believe that
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Kentucky should be,
and the same hereby is,
Affirmed.
MR. Jusmcm BLAcxMuN, concurrmng.
I join the Court's opinion, but I write separately to explain my somewhat different approach to the issues addressed
in Part II-A thereof.
In my view, Rakas v Il1inots, 439 U S. 128 (1978), recognized two analytically distinct but "invariably intertwined"
issues of substantive Fourth Amendment jurisprudence. Id.,
at 139. The first is "whether [a] disputed search or seizure
has infringed an interest of the defendant which the Fourth
Amendment was designed to protect," td., at 140; the second
GThe fruits of the search of petitioner's person were, of course, not
necessary to support probable cause to arrest petitioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
B AcKmuN, J., concurring

448 U. S.

is whether "the challenged search or seizure violated [that]
Fourth Amendment righ[t]," ibid. The first of these questions is answered by determining whether the defendant has
a "legitimate expectation of privacy" that has been invaded
by a governmental search or seizure. The second is answered
by determining whether applicable cause and warrant requirements have been properly observed.
I agree with the Court that these two inquiries "merge into
one," ante, at 106, in the sense that both are to be addressed
under the principles of Fourth Amendment analysis developed
in Katz v United States, 389 U S. 347 (1967), and its progeny
But I do not read today's decision, or Rakas, as holding that
it is improper for lower courts to treat these inquiries as
distinct components of a Fourth Amendment claim. Indeed,
I am convinced that it would invite confusion to hold otherwise. It remains possible for a defendant to prove that his
legitimate interest of privacy was invaded, and yet fail to
prove that the police acted illegally in doing so. And it is
equally possible for a defendant to prove that the police acted
illegally, and yet fail to prove that his own privacy interest
was affected.
Nor do I read this Court's decisions to hold that property
interests cannot be, in some circumstances at least, weighty
factors in establishing the existence of Fourth Amendment
rights. Not every concept of ownership or possession is
"arcane." Not every interest in property exists only in the
desiccated atmosphere of ancient maxims and dusty books.
Earlier this Term the Court recognized that "the right to
exclude" is an essential element of modern property rights.
Kaiser Aetna v United States, 444 U S. 164, 179-180 (1979).
In my view, that "right to exclude" often may be a principal
determinant in the establishment of a legitimate Fourth
Amendment interest. Accordingly, I would confine analysis
to the facts of this case. On those facts, however, I agree
that petitioner's possessory interest in the vials of controlled

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY
98

WHrIs, J., concurring m part

substances is not sufficient to create a privacy interest in
Vanessa Cox's purse, and that such an interest was not otherwise conferred by any agreement between petitioner and Cox.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, with whom MR. JUSTIcE STEWART

joins, concurring in part.
Although I join Parts I and II-A of the Court's opinion,
I do not join Parts II-B, II-C, and III because I believe
that the fruits inquiry undertaken in Part II-B should not
be done in the first instance in this Court. As the Court recognizes, the Supreme Court of Kentucky did not address the
question whether petitioner's admission to ownership of the
drugs was the fruit of an illegal detention, even though the
question was presented there. The state-court majority did
state that in concluding that the search of petitioner's person
was incident to a valid arrest it "disregard[ed] as irrelevant
the detention during the period in which the officers were
procuring a search warrant." The court also observed that
"[t]his search was not explored in detail at the suppression
hearing" and that "the sequence of the search of the purse
and Rawlings' admission of ownership of the drugs is not
clearly established in the record." The court then concluded
that "[c]learly, after Rawlings admitted ownership of the
drugs, the officers were entitled to arrest and search the
person, or search and then arrest." 581 S. W 2d 348, 350
(1979).
In proceeding in this manner, the Supreme Court of Kentucky plainly failed properly to dispose of a federal question,
as the Court implicitly recognizes. Because the fruits question was never addressed below and was barely mentioned
in the briefs before this Court, I would vacate the judgment
below and remand to permit the state court to address the
question under the correct legal standard. This Court should
not attempt to decide a factual issue on a record that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
TARSmALL, J., dissenting

448 U. S.

state court itself apparently thought inadequate for that
purpose.
MR. JssTIcB MARshAL, with whom MR. JUsTim BRENNAN
joins, dissenting.
The vials of pills found in Vanessa Cox's purse and petitioner's admission that they belonged to him established his
guilt conclusively The State concedes, as it must, that the
search of the purse was unreasonable and in violation of the
Fourth Amendment, see Ybarra v Illinoas, 444 U S. 85
(1979), and the Court assumes that the detention which led
to the search, the seizure, and the admissions also violated
the Fourth Amendment, ante, at 106. Nevertheless, the
Court upholds the conviction. I dissent.
I
The Court holds first that petitioner may not object to the
introduction of the pills into evidence because the unconstitutional actions of the police officers did not violate his personal Fourth Amendment rights. To reach this result, the
Court holds that the Constitution protects an individual
against unreasonable searches and seizures only if he has "a
'legitimate expectation of privacy' in the area searched."
Ante, at 104. This holding cavalierly rejects the fundamental
principle, unquestioned until today, that an interest in either
the place searched or the property seized is sufficient to invoke the Constitution's protections against unreasonable
searches and seizures.
The Court's examination of previous Fourth Amendment
cases begins and ends-as it must if it is to reach its desired
conclusion-with Rakas v Illinozs, 439 U S. 128 (1978).
Contrary to the Court's assertion, however, Rakas did not
establish that the Fourth Amendment protects individuals
against unreasonable searches and seizures only if they have
a privacy interest in the place searched. The question before
the Court in Rakas was whether the defendants could estab-

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY
98

MARsHALL, J.,

dissenting

lish their right to Fourth Amendment protection simply by
showing that they were "legitimately on [the] premises"
searched, see Jones v United States, 362 U S. 257, 267
(1960). Overruling that portion of Jones, the Court held
that when a Fourth Amendment objection is based on an interest in the place searched, the defendant must show an
actual invasion of his personal privacy interest. The petitioners in Rakas did not claim that they had standing either
under the Jones automatic standing rule for persons charged
with possessory offenses, which the Court overrules today, see
United States v Salvucc., ante, p. 83, or because their possessory interest in the items seized gave them "actual standing." No Fourth Amendment claim based on an interest
in the property seized was before the Court, and, consequently,
the Court did not and could not have decided whether such
a clain could be maintained. In fact, the Court expressly
disavowed any intention to foreclose such a claim ("This is
not to say that such [casual] visitors could not contest the
lawfulness of the seizure of evidence or the search if their own
property were seized during the search," 439 U S., at 142,
n. 11), and suggested its continuing validity ("[P]etitioners'
claims must fail. They asserted neither a property nor a
possessory interest in the automobile, nor an interest in the
property seized," id., at 148 (emphasis supplied)).
The decision today, then, is not supported by the only case
directly cited in its favor.* Further, the Court has ignored
*The Court invites the reader to "contrast" Jones v. United States, 362
U. S. 257 (1960), which it expressly overrules, and to "see" Simmons v
United States, 390 U. S. 377, 389-390 (1968). Ante, at 105, 104. The
passage cited m Simmons contains the following language: "At one time, a
defendant who wished to assert a Fourth Amendment ob3ection was required to show that he was the owner or possessor of the seized property
or that he had a possessory interest m the searched premises." 390 U. S.,
at 389-390 (emphasis supplied). The Court in Simmons then observed
that Jones had "relaxed" those standing requirements by holding that in
a case charging a possessory offense "the Government is precluded from
denying that the defendant has the requisite possessory interest to chal-

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
MARsHALL,

J., dissenting

448 U. S.

a long tradition embodying the opposite view United States
v Jeffers, 342 U S. 48 (1951), for example, involved a seizure
of contraband alleged to belong to the defendant from a hotel
room occupied by his two aunts. The Court rejected the
Government's argument that because the search of the room
did not invade Jeffers' privacy he lacked standing to suppress
the evidence. It held that standing to object to the seizure
could not be separated from standing to object to the search,
for "[t]he search and seizure are
incapable of being
untied." Id., at 52. The Court then concluded that Jeffers
"unquestionably had standing
unless the contraband nature
of the narcotics seized precluded his assertion, for purposes
of the exclusionary rule, of a property interest therein."
Ibid. (emphasis supplied)
Similarly, Jones v United States, supra, is quite plainly
premised on the understanding that an interest in the seized
property is sufficient to establish that the defendant "himself
was the victim of an invasion of privacy" 362 U S., at 261.
The Court observed that the "conventional standing requirement," 7d., at 262, required the defendant to "claim either to
have owned or possessed the seized property or to have had
a substantial possessory interest in the premises searched,"
2d., at 261 (emphasis supplied) The Court relaxed that rule
for defendants charged with possessory offenses because
"[tlhe same element
which has caused a dilemma, s. e.,
that possession both convicts and confers standing,eliminates
any necessity for a preliminary showing of an interest in the
premises searched or the property seized, which ordinarily is
lenge the admission of the evidence.
" 390 U. S., at 390. The Court
also "contrasts" two other cases in connection with its subsidiary point that
a "bailment" that is "precipitous" may not be enough to show that a person "took normal precautions to maintain his privacy" Ante, at 105.
The Court also cites Katz v. United States, 389 U. S. 347 (1967), as the
source of the phrase "legitimate expectation of privacy" But Katz did
not purport to restrict the interest protected by the Fourth Amendment,
see infra, at 119-120.

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY
98

MAXRssHL,

J., dissenting

required when standing is challenged." Id., at 263 (emphasis supplied). Instead, "[t]he possession on the basis of
which petitioner is to be and was convicted suffices to give
hun standing," id., at 264.
Simmons v United States, 390 U S. 377 (1968), proceeded
upon a like understanding. The Court there reiterated that
prior to Jones "a defendant who wished to assert a Fourth
Amendment objection was required to show that he was the
owner or possessor of the setzed property or that he had a
possessory interest in the searched premises." 390 U S., at
389-390 (emphasis supplied). Jones had changed that rule
only with respect to defendants charged with possessory offenses, so the defendant Garrett, who was charged with armed
robbery, had to establish standing. Because he was not
"legitimately on [the] premises" at the tune of the search,
see Jones, supra, at 267, "[t]he only, or at least the most
natural, way m which he could found standing to object to
the admission of the suitcase was to testify that he was its
owner." 390 U S., at 391 (footnote omitted). See also
Brown v United States, 411 U S. 223, 228 (1973), Mancus
v DeForte,392 U S. 364, 367 (1968).
The Court's decision today is not wrong, however, simply
because it is contrary to our previous cases. It is wrong because it is contrary to the Fourth Amendment, which guarantees that "[t]he right of the people to be secure in their
persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable
searches and seizures, shall not be violated." The Court's
reading of the Amendment is far too narrow The Court misreads the guarantee of security "in their persons, houses,
papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures" to afford protection only against unreasonable searches
and seizures of persons and places.
The Fourth Amendment, it seems to me, provides in plain
language that if one's security in one's "effects" is disturbed
by an unreasonable search and seizure, one has been the victin of a constitutional violation, and so it has always been

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
MARShALL,

understood.

J., dissenting

448 U. S.

Therefore the Court's insistence that in order to

challenge the legality of the search one must also assert a
protected interest in the premises is misplaced. The interest
in the item seized is quite enough to establish that the defendant's personal Fourth Amendment rights have been invaded by the government's conduct.
The idea that a person cannot object to a search unless he

can show an interest in the premises, even though he is the
owner of the seized property, was squarely rejected almost 30
years ago in United States v Jeffers, supra. There the Court
stated.
"The Government argues
that the search did not
invade respondent's privacy and that he, therefore, lacked
the necessary standing to suppress the evidence seized.
The significant act, it says, is the seizure of the goods of
the respondent without a warrant. We do not believe
the events are so easily isolable. Rather they are bound
together by one sole purpose--to locate and seize the
narcotics of respondent. The search and seizure are,
therefore, incapable of being untied. To hold that this
search and seizure were lawful as to the respondent would
permit a quibbling distinction to overturn a principle
which was designed to protect a fundamental right." Id.,
at 52.
When the government seizes a person's property, it interferes with his constitutionally protected right to be secure
in his effects. That interference gives him the right to
challenge the reasonableness of the government's conduct, including the seizure. If the defendant's property was seized
as the result of an unreasonable search, the seizure cannot be
other than unreasonable.
In holding that the Fourth Amendment protects only those
with a privacy interest in the place searched, and not those
with an ownership or possessory interest in the things seized,
the Court has turned the development of the law of search

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY

98

MAtmLL, J.,

dissenting

and seizure on its head. The history of the Fourth Amendnent shows that it was designed to protect property interests
as well as privacy interests, in fact, until Jones the question
whether a person's Fourth Amendment rights had been violated turned on whether he had a property interest in the
place searched or the items seized. Jones and Katz v United
States, 389 U S. 347 (1967), expanded our view of the protections afforded by the Fourth Amendment by recognizing
that privacy interests are protected even if they do not arise
from property rights. But that recognition was never intended to exclude interests that had historically been sheltered by the Fourth Amendment from its protection. Neither
Jones nor Katz purported to provide an exclusive definition
of the interests protected by the Fourth Amendment. Indeed, as Katz recognized. "That Amendment protects individual privacy against certain kinds of governmental intrusion,
but its protections go further, and often have nothing to do
with privacy at all." 389 U S., at 350. Those decisions
freed Fourth Amendment jurisprudence from the constraints
of "subtle distinctions, developed and refined by the common
law in evolving the body of private property law which, more
than almost any other branch of law, has been shaped by
distinctions whose validity is largely historical." Jones,
362 U S., at 266. Rejection of those finely drawn distinctions
as irrelevant to the concerns of the Fourth Amendment did
not render property rights wholly outside its protection, however. Not every concept involving property rights, we should
remember, is "arcane." Cf. ante, at 105.
In fact, the Court rather inconsistently denies that property rights may, by themselves, entitle one to the protection
of the Fourth Amendment, but simultaneously suggests that
a person may claim such protection only if his expectation of
privacy in the premises searched is so strong that he may exclude all others from that place. See ante, at 105-106, Rakas
v Illinois, 439 U S., at 149. Such a harsh threshold require-

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
MARsHALL,

J., dissenting

448 U. S.

ment was not imposed even in the heyday of a property rights
oriented Fourth Amendment.
II
Petitioner also contends that his admission of ownership
of the drugs should have been suppressed as the fruit of an
unlawful detention. The state courts did not pass on that
claim, and no factual record was developed which would shed
light on the proper disposition of the claim. In such circumstances, it would be appropriate for us to defer to the
state court and permit it to make the initial determination.
Nevertheless, the majority proceeds to dispose of petitioner's
claim by concluding that, even if the detention was illegal,
cpetitioner's statements were acts of free will unaffected
by any illegality in the initial detention." Ante, at 110. I
disagree.
Petitioner's admissions, far from being "spontaneous," ante,
at 108, were made in response to Vanessa Cox's demand that
petitioner "take what was his." In turn, it is plain that her
statement was the direct product of the illegal search of her
purse. And that search was made possible only because the
police refused to let anyone in the house depart unless they
"consented" to a body search, that detention the Court has
assumed was illegal. Under these circumstances petitioner's
admissions were obviously the fruit of the illegal detention
and should have been suppressed.
II
In the words of Mr. Justice Frankfurter- "A decision [of a
Fourth Amendment claim] may turn on whether one gives
that Amendment a place second to none in the Bill of Rights,
or considers it on the whole a kind of nuisance, a serious impediment in the war against crime." Harms v United States,
331 U S. 145, 157 (1947) (dissenting opinion) Today a majority of the Court has substantially cut back the protection afforded by the Fourth Amendment and the ability of the

RAWLINGS v. KENTUCKY
98

121

MsHmLL, J., dissenting

people to claim that protection, apparently out of concern
lest the government's ability to obtain criminal convictions
be impeded. A slow and steady erosion of the ability of victims of unconstitutional searches and seizures to obtain a
remedy for the invasion of their rights saps the constitutional
guarantee of its life just as surely as would a substantive
limitation. Because we are called on to decide whether evidence should be excluded only when a search has been "successful," it is easy to forget that the standards we announce
determine what government conduct is reasonable m searches
and seizures directed at persons who turn out to be innocent
as well as those who are guilty I continue to believe that
ungrudging application of the Fourth Amendment is indispensable to preserving the liberties of a democratic society
Accordingly, I dissent.

