WILLHAUCK v. FLANAGAN
Opinion

1323

in Chambers

WILLHAUCK v. FLANAGAN ET AL.
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-169.

Decided August 28, 1980

An application for a stay pending appeal to the Court of Appeals from
the District Court's order denying applicant's request for a temporary
restraining order enjoining, on double jeopardy grounds, two separate
Massachusetts state-court prosecutions against him, is denied. Applicant has not alleged sufficient irreparable harm to warrant considering
whether there is a reasonable probability that four Justices of this Court
would consider the issue whether an exception to the doctrine of
Younger v. Harris, 401 U. S. 37, should be made for double jeopardy
claims to be sufficiently meritorious to grant certiorari should the merits
of the case eventually come before this Court.
MR. JUSTICE BRENNAN,

Circuit Justice.

This is an application for a stay pending appeal to the
United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit from
an order of the United States District Court for the District
of Massachusetts denying a request for a temporary restraining order. The facts are briefly as follows. On July 2, 1979,
the applicant, Francis A. Willhauck, Jr., allegedly led local
police on a high-speed automobile chase through Norfolk and
Suffolk Counties. He was finally arrested in Suffolk County
and charged with various offenses by the District Attorneys
in both counties. In Norfolk County (Quincy District
Court), he was charged with driving so as to endanger, failure
to stop for a police officer, failure to slow down for an intersection, and driving at an unreasonable speed. In Suffolk
County (West Roxbury District Court), he was also charged
with driving so as to endanger and failure to stop for a police
officer, and in addition was charged with assault and battery
with a motor vehicle.
With the complaints pending in the respective county
District Courts, applicant moved in Quincy District Court to

1324

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opnion m Chambers

448 U. S.

consolidate the cases into a single proceeding there pursuant
to Rule 37 of the Massachusetts Rules of Criminal Procedure.
However, since the Rule requires the written approval of
both prosecuting attorneys to effectuate transfer and consolidation, his attempt failed when one of the District Attorneys apparently declined to approve the consolidation. Applicant subsequently moved for consolidation in at least one of
the Superior Courts of Norfolk and Suffolk Counties, where
his indictment was handed down, but the motion was similarly
denied.
Finally, applicant brought his claim before a single justice
of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, contending,
inter alia, that failure to consolidate would put him twice in
jeopardy for the same offenses, in violation of the Constitution. The justice dismissed it in a four-page memorandum
and order for judgment entered June 19, 1980, rejecting
applicant's argument that the charges in the two counties
were for a single offense. He also noted that, even if he had
the power to transfer and consolidate the two trials, he would
refuse to do so because, in his view, this would be an unwarranted intrusion and interference with the lower courts and
prosecutors.
On August 1, 1980, Willhauck brought an action pursuant
to 42 U S. C. ยง 1983 in Federal District Court to obtain a
declaration that Massachusetts Rule of Criminal Procedure
37 (b) (2), giving prosecuting attorneys a veto over transfer
and consolidation, violates the Double Jeopardy and Due
Process Clauses of the Constitution. He sought a temporary
restraining order, a preliminary injunction, and a permanent
injunction against the two county District Attorneys to enjoin
their criminal prosecutions against him. The District Court
entered an order denying a temporary restraining order on
August 12, 1980, on the basis that applicant's prayer for relief
did not fall within one of the recognized exceptions to the rule
announced in Younger v Harms, 401 U S. 37 (1971). Will-

WILLHAUCK v. FLANAGAN
1323

Opinion m Chambers

hauck later moved for a stay of the District Court order in
the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit pending appeal
The Court of Appeals denied this motion on August 13, 1980,
assuming without deciding that the District Court's order was
"in reality" an order denying a preliminary injunction.
Willhauck now applies to me as Circuit Justice for a stay
pending resolution of his appeal to the Court of Appeals for
the First Circuit. The cases against him appear to be proceeding simultaneously in Suffolk Superior and Quincy District Courts. He was scheduled for "status" hearings in the
two courts on August 14, or August 14 and 15, 1980. Applicant advises me that both cases now have been continued
until September 12, 1980.
In my view, Willhauck has a potentially substantial double
jeopardy claim, if not on the face of the Massachusetts Rule
or as applied to him, then simply on the possibility the State
may conduct simultaneous prosecutions against him in two
separate courts on the same offenses. Whether the Younger
doctrine would bar federal intervention in a continuing state
criminal proceeding in this simultaneous prosecution context
or, for that matter, in a case where the claim of double jeopardy is made after jeopardy has attached in the first proceeding, seems to me an open question. The principles of
Abney v United States, 431 U S. 651 (1977), and Hams v
Washtngton, 404 U. S. 55 (1971) (per cunam), suggest that
an exception to Younger for double jeopardy claims may be
appropriate, at least when all state remedies have been
exhausted.
Nevertheless, I do not find that applicant has alleged sufficient irreparable harm for me to consider whether there is a
reasonable probability that four Justices would consider the
above issue sufficiently meritorious to grant certiorari, should
the merits of the case eventually come before us. Neither
trial has begun and no jury has been empaneled. Until a
jury is empaneled and sworn, Crtst v Bretz, 437 U. S. 28, 38

1326

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opnion m Chambers

448 U. S.

(1978), or, in a bench trial, until the first witness is sworn,
id., at 37, n. 15 (federal rule), Serfass v United States, 420
U S. 377, 388 (1975) (federal rule), jeopardy does not attach.
Accordingly, applicant's constitutional claim is premature.
Of course, once jeopardy does attach in one of the trials,
applicant should be able to make his claim before the second
trial judge, at which time the courts can give due consideration to his claim.
Therefore, I deny the application for a stay pending appeal.

