BOARD OF ED., LOS ANGELES v. SUPERIOR COURT 134

Opinion in Chambers
BOARD OF EDUCATION OF CITY OF LOS ANGELES
v. SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA, COUNTY

OF LOS ANGELES (CRAWFORD
REAL PARTIES IN

ET AL.,

INTEREST)

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-214. Decided September 12, 1980
An application to stay, pending consideration of a petition for certiorari,
the Califorma Supreme Court's order which left standing a lower court's
order requiring mandatory reassignment and busing of upwards of
80,000 first- through ninth-grade students attending approximately 165
elementary and junior high schools in the Los Angeles school system, is
denied. Although this Court would probably have jurisdiction over the
present action should a petition for certiorari be filed by the applicant
Board, nevertheless it is unlikely that four Justices of this Court would
vote to grant certiorari in this case, and a stay granted less than a
week before the scheduled opening of school, when school officials and
state courts are still trying to put in place the final pieces of a desegregation plan, would not be a proper exercise of the function of a Circuit
Justice.
MR.

JUSTICE REHNQUIST,

Circuit Justice.

The Board of Education of the Los Angeles Unified School
District requests that I stay an order of the California

Supreme Court, dated August 27, 1980, which left standing
an order of the Superior Court of the State of California for
Los Angeles County requiring mandatory reassignment of
between 80,000 and 100,000 first- through ninth-grade students attending approximately 165 elementary and junior high
schools pending consideration by this Court of its petition
for certiorari. On July 7, 1980, the Superior Court entered
its final remedial order in this action, finding that the Board
had participated in racial discriminatory practices which led
to the segregation in the school district and requiring the
Board to implement a mandatory busing plan pursuant to
guidelines contained in the order. The Board applied to the

1344

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

448 U. S.

Court of Appeal of California to stay the Superior Court's
order and, on August 6, 1980, that court partially stayed the
order insofar as it relied on a definition of a desegregated
school as one where there is a plurality of white students
not in excess of 5% over the next largest ethnic group
in the school and insofar as it required mandatory busing
of students currently attending substantially desegregated
schools. The Court of Appeal, however, in all other respects denied the Board's petition for a stay, thus precipitating the current situation where upwards of 80,000 pupils will
be bused at the start of school on Monday, September 16,
1980. The court also accelerated the date of oral argument
so that the appeal could be heard in January 1981. On
August 27, 1980, the California Supreme Court denied, without opinion, the Board's application for a writ of mandamus
and/or prohibition to stay in its entirety the order of the
Superior Court and recommended that the Court of Appeal
accelerate oral argument even further. The California Supreme Court also denied a motion by the original plaintiffs in
this action, minority schoolchildren, to vacate the partial stay
entered by the Court of Appeal.
This case comes to me after extensive and complicated
litigation. Briefly stated, in 1970, the Superior Court issued
an opinion finding that the segregation in the school district
was de lure in nature and that the Board had taken "affirmative" steps which it "knew or should have known" would
perpetuate segregation in the district. The specific items
detailed in the court's findings included the Board's adoption
of (1) a neighborhood school policy, (2) an "open transfer"
policy, (3) a "feeder school" policy, and (4) "mandatory attendance areas." In Crawford v Board of Education, 17 Cal.
3d 280, 551 P 2d 28 (1976), the California Supreme Court
accepted the finding of de lure segregation, but did not base
its affirmance of the Superior Court's order of mandatory busing on that ground, holding instead that the California Con-

BOARD OF ED., LOS ANGELES v. SUPERIOR COURT 1345
1343

Opimon m Chambers

stitution permitted busing to be ordered regardless of the
cause of segregation. On September 8, 1978, I denied a stay
for this reason. Bustop, Inc. v Los Angeles Board of Educatwn, 439 U. S.1380 (in chambers).
During remand, the California Constitution was amended
by way of a state referendum, Proposition I, adopted in November 1979 to eliminate state independent grounds as a
basis for court-ordered busing, and the Board contended that
the Superior Court's 10-year-old findings did not justify a
finding of a federal constitutional violation or the systemwide remedy of mandatory assignment of children by race.
In its July 7, 1980, order, the Superior Court apparently rejected that argument, reasoning that the California Supreme
Court, in Crawford, affirmed the finding of de Yure segregation. Contrary to the assertions of the respondents, it seems
to me that this application necessarily turns on a question of
federal constitutional law, as other courts have held. Indeed,
I find myself unable to articulate the point better than
Judge Cohn of the Superior Court of San Mateo County in
Tinsley v Palo Alto Unified School Dzstrct, No. 206010
(July 10, 1980)
"Turning to the argument that Proposition I violates
the 14th Amendment of the U S. Constitution, inasmuch as it merely limits California courts to what the
federal courts can do under the federal constitution, it
is indeed difficult to accept the contention that by limitmg a state court's jurisdiction to that of the federal
courts, there is somehow a violation of [the] federal
constitution."
There is an initial question as to whether this Court would
have jurisdiction over the present action if a petition for writ
of certiorari were filed. In Fisherv Dtstrct Court, 424 U S.
382, 385, n. 7 (1976), this Court stated.
"The writ of supervisory control issued by the Montana
Supreme Court is a final judgment within our jursdic-

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opimon m Chambers

448 U. S.

tion under 28 U. S. C. ยง 1257 (3). It is available only
in original proceedings of the Montana Supreme
and although it may issue in a broad range
Court
of circumstances, it is not equivalent to an appeal.
A judgment that terminates original proceedings in a
state appellate court, in which the only issue decided
concerns the jurisdiction of a lower state court, is final,
even if further proceedings are to be had in the lower
court. Madruga v Superior Court, 346 U S. 556, 557
"
n. 1 (1954)
In this action, the Board's petition for a writ of mandamus
and/or prohibition was a distinct lawsuit which was fully and
finally determined by the California Supreme Court's ]udgment of August 27, 1980. I am thus persuaded that this
Court would in all probability have jurisdiction over the
present action should a petition for certiorari be filed by the
Board.
There is no question here as to the standing of the Board,
since it is a party to an action which has been required by the
Superior Court (respondent) to mandatorily reassign an extraordinarily large number of students in what the Board
claims is the largest school district in the Nation. There
might be some question of "standing" if the petitioners were
a group of whites, "Anglos," or whatever the current terminology used to describe them is, for if the latest 1979 school
census submitted by the Board in its application is to be
credited, they themselves would be a "minority" That census indicates that in kindergarten and the first three grades
of the school affected by the busing order, students classified
as "white" ranged from 17.9% to 21.9% of the school population, those classified as "black" ranged from 18.3% to 22.1%,
and those classified as "Hispanic" ranged from 57.8% to
48.9%. Application, at 18 (compiled from trial exhibit 1IB)
As seems typical with school cases, applications for stay
are presented to a Circuit Justice of this Court close to the

BOARD OF ED., LOS ANGELES v. SUPERIOR COURT
1343

1347

Opinion m Chambers

opening of school. It appears that the process leading to the
formulation of a mandatory busing plan, and the inevitable
challenge to it, takes time which apparently is devoted in
sufficient amount only as the deadline of school opening approaches. And as has been noted before in many Circuit Justices' opinions, the Circuit Justice faces a difficult problem in
acting on a stay The Justice is not to determine how he
would vote on the merits, but rather forecast whether four
Justices would vote to grant certiorari when the petition is
presented, predict the probable outcome of the case if certiorari were granted, and balance the traditional stay equities.
All of this requires that a Justice cultivate some skill in the
reading of tea leaves as well as in the process of legal
reasoning.
The thrust of the Board's petition is that the Superior
Court, by relying on the 1970 finding of de jure segregation,
erroneously found that the Board had violated the Fourteenth
Amendment. The Board contends that the Superior Court
was required to conduct a hearing as to the existence of a
federal constitutional violation rather than rely on 10-year-old
findings, since the case law as to what constitutes de lure
segregation has changed in those years. Were this case presently before the entire Court on certiorari, I would in all
probability vote to grant certiorari, since it seems to me that
on the basis of the application the findings are even less supportive of a constitutional violation than were those upheld
in Columbus Board of Educatson v Pernck, 443 U S. 449
(1979), and Dayton Board of Educaton v Brznkman, 443
But that is not the question before a CirU S. 526 (1979)
cuit Justice, and I do not think I in good conscience could say
that four Justices of this Court would vote to grant certiorari
in this case. One factor militating against the granting of
certiorari here is that the Court of Appeal has recognized that
the significance of the Crawford court's "affirmance" of the
finding of de lure segregation is ambiguous and it has indicated that it will carefully review the Superior Court's find-

1848

OCTOBER TERM, 1979

Opimon m Chambers

448 U. S.

rags of a constitutional violation on review this fall or early
next year.
Because the merits of the Board's argument are not free
from doubt, the proper disposition of this application for a
stay turns on the equities. The Board's primary contention
here is that "white flight," which all parties concede has taken
place in the school district, will accelerate if this plan is put
into effect. Not only will increased "white flight" injure the
Board in financial terms, such as in reduced pupil reimbursement from the State, but also a reduction in the number of
white students in the district will defeat any hope of further
desegregating the schools in the district. Indeed, the Superior
Court found that over the past two years, when a mandatory
busing plan has been in effect, the district has lost 50,000
white students and that 25,000 of those students withdrew
from the district to avoid mandatory reassignment. Because
projections indicated that the school district in 1987 will consist of only 14% white students, the Superior Court asserted
that its task was to achieve the optimal use of white students
in the schools so that the maximum number of schools may
be desegregated.
I find this analysis somewhat troublesome, since it puts
"white" students much in the position of textbooks, visual
aids, and the like--an element that every good school should
have. And it appears clear that this Court, sooner or later,
will have to confront the issue of "white flight" by whatever
term it is denominated, Estes v Metropolitan Branches of
Dallas NAACP, 444 U S. 437, 438 (1980) (PowpLL, J., dissenting from the dismissal of a writ of certiorari as improvidently granted) As MR. JUsTICE POWELL has observed. "A
desegregation remedy that does not take account of the social
and educational consequences of extensive student transportation can be neither fair nor effective." Id., at 452.
The Court of Appeal here has partially mitigated the potential harm to the Board resulting from "white flight" by
rejecting the Superior Court's rigid definition of a desegre-

BOARD OF ED., LOS ANGELES v. SUPERIOR COURT 1349
1343

Opmion m Chambers

gated school as one in which there is a plurality of white pupils
not in excess of 5% over the next largest ethnic group in the
school and by prohibiting mandatory reassignment of students
to or from a school which is substantially desegregated.
Nonetheless, upwards of 80,000 students will still be bused,
although even with school to begin on September 16th it appears from the Board's own application to this Court that the
"exact number and identity of all participating schools have
not been finalized." I think that a stay granted less than a
week before the scheduled opening of school, when school officials and state courts are still trying to put in place the final
pieces of a plan, would not be a proper exercise of my function
as a Circuit Justice, even though were I voting on the merits
of a petition for certiorari challenging the plan I would, as
presently advised, feel differently The application for a
stay is accordingly
Demed.

