OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS

RAILWAY LABOR EXECUTIVES' ASSN. v. GIBBONS,

TRUSTEE,

ET AL.

ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-1135. Decided June 28, 1980
An application to stay the District Court's preliminary injunction against
nplementation of the labor protection arrangement provisions of the
Rock Island Railroad Transition and Employee Assistance Act in connection with the liquidation in bankruptcy of the Chicago, Rock Island
and Pacific Railroad, is denied. It appearing that a stay would set in
motion a chain of events that would lead to substantial payments to
employees of the railroad that would be unconstitutional and unrecoverable, a sufficient showing of irreparable damage to the estate has been
made to support the preliminary injunction.

M. JusTIcE STEvENs, Circuit Justice.
Proceedings to reorganize the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railroad (the Rock Island) pursuant to § 77 of the
Bankruptcy Act, 11 U S. C. § 205, have been pending
before Judge McGarr in the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Illinois for over five years. Because the Rock Island had been sustaining continuing substantial losses, on January 25, 1980, Judge McGarr ordered
the Trustee to prepare and file a preliminary plan of liquidation. On May 27, 1980, the Interstate Commerce Commission filed an advisory report with the District Court concluding "that abandonment of the Rock Island and its dissolution
as an operating railroad is required by the public convenience
and necessity" Consistent with its own precedents, the
Commssion apparently did not recommend that any special
labor protection condition be imposed on the Rock Island in
1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

448 U. S.

connection with the abandonment. On June 2, 1980, after
receiving briefs and hearing argument, Judge McGarr entered
an order authorizing complete abandonment of all Rock
Island operations and expressly holding that "no labor protection arrangements may be imposed on the Rock Island
estate."
Two days earlier, however, the President had signed Public
Law 96-254, 94 Stat. 399, 45 U. S. C. § 1001 et seq. (1976
ed., Supp. IV), entitled the Rock Island Railroad Transition
and Employee Assistance Act (Act) Section 106 (a) of
the Act required the Trustee, within 10 days, to enter into an
agreement with the collective-bargaining representatives of
Rock Island employees and former employees to provide for
labor protection payments to terminated employees. Section
106 (b) authorized the Interstate Commerce Commission to
impose a labor protection arrangement on the estate if the
Trustee failed to reach agreement with the unions. Section
110 of the Act authorized the Trustee to borrow up to $75
million from the United States to provide the funds for payments pursuant to that arrangement. It further provides
that such borrowing, as well as the employee protection
claims themselves, should be treated as an expense of administration. It is my understanding that, effectively, the employee protection payments and any concomitant obligations
of repayment to the United States are thus given priority
over the claims of the general creditors on the assets of the
estate. The Act further provides that no court may stay
the payment of any labor protection benefits. And -finally,
§ 110 (e) provides: "Except in connection with obligations
guaranteed under this section, the United States shall incur
no liability in connection with any employee protection
agreement or arrangement entered into under § 106 of this
Title." 1
'An explanation of the Act is found in the Senate proceedings. See
remarks of Senator Kassebaum of Kansas, 126 Cong. Rec. 4869-4870

RAILWAY LABOR EXECUTIVES' ASSN. v. GIBBONS
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

Within the 10-day period, the Trustee applied for a preliminary injunction against implementation of the labor protection arrangement provisions of the Act on the ground that
(1980). In substance, it appears that the Senator was particularly concerned with preserving the possibility of selling a portion of the Rock
Island, known as the Tucumcan Line from Kansas City to New Mexico,
to the Southern Pacific Railroad. She explained that the bill extended
"directed service" of the Rock Island, which as I understand it, means
service ordered by the Federal Government with any losses incurred
underwritten by the Federal Government. She indicated that in February representatives of the labor unions and the acquiring railroads had
worked out labor agreements adequate to protect employees who would
be re-employed by the acquiring roads, but that there was a substantial
risk that no protection would be made available to terminated employees
who would not be re-employed, and that the smooth transfer might be
interrupted by a broad strike called to obtain compensation for the employees who lost their jobs. It was in order to avoid this prospect that
the bill was apparently designed to compel the estate to make adequate
termination payments that it was not already obligated to make to those
terminated employees. It also appears that the original plan was to fund
$50 million for those employees, $30 million of which would be secured
by the Government as a high priority administration expense, the other
S20 million being subordinated to the claims of all other creditors. The
total loan was changed to $75 million prior to passage, and, more significantly, all of the loan was to be given the high priority of an administration expense. Thus, Congress rather clearly indicated its intent that the
Government ultimately not be required to underwrite any of the employee protection payments, but rather to have them imposed entirely as
a burden on the Rock Island estate.
See also the remarks of Congressman Madigan, 126 Cong. Rec. 7096
(1980), in support. of H. R. 6837, which included two titles, the first contaming provisions for the completion of the northeast corridor. Title I,
which became the Rock Island Railroad Transition and Employee Assistance Act, seemed primarily intended to authorize so-called "directed
service" to be funded by the Federal Government, but it also included the
employee protection program. With respect to the latter, Congressman
Madigan stated, in part:
"There is a $75 million guaranteed obligation in this bill for labor protection payments to the Rock Island employees whose jobs are terminated.
That is not an appropriation of Federal funds that will not be returned;
it is a priority claim against the estate of the Rock Island Railroad, and

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1979
Opinion in Chambers

448 U. S.

the statute authorized an unconstitutional taking of the property of the estate. Judge McGarr granted that relief, concluding that (1) the procedural provisions of the Act required
him to take action immediately in order to preserve the estate
from irreparable damage, (2) there were no pre-existing contractual or statutory obligations to make labor protection payments that were being quantified by the Act, and (3) the Act
would serve neither a public purpose nor the interest of the
estate in view of the total abandonment of the Rock Island's
operations that had been authorized. He also implicitly concluded that the statutory program could not be justified as
necessary to facilitate sales by the Trustee of portions of the
railroad's operating properties.
On June 21, 1980, applicant Railway Labor Executives'
Association applied to me in my capacity as Circuit Justice
for a stay of Judge McGarr's preliminary injunction. ' Four
days later, on June 25, 1980, the United States filed a memorandum supporting that stay application. The applicant contends that the estate will not suffer irreparable damage by
simply permitting the negotiation of a labor protection plan
to commence. It argues that even if payments pursuant to
such a plan would result in an unconstitutional taking of the
estate's property, the estate might still be able to convince
Judge McGarr that the statutory prohibition against court
orders prohibiting payments pursuant to such arrangement is
it is structured exactly the same as the Milwaukee bill which we passed
late last year.
"At the risk of being redundant, I would like to repeat, the $750 million
for the Northeast corridor is in the President's budget. The money for

the Rock Island Railroad will be paid back from the estate of the Rock
Island Railroad." Ibid. (Emphasis added.)
It is worth noting that the "Milwaukee bill" concerned a genune railroad
reorganization, not a liquidation.
2
Appeal lies to this Court under 28 U. S. C. § 1252, since Judge
McGarr held an Act of Congress unconstitutional.

RAILWAY LABOR EXECUTIVES' ASSN. v. GIBBONS
1301

1305

Opnion m Chambers

unconstitutional, and that it would be better to enjoin such
payments rather than the negotiation of the underlying plan.
Alternatively, it is argued that a remedy against the Government to make the estate whole may ultimately be available in the Court of Claims under the Tucker Act if it
turns out that any payments made were unconstitutionally
required.
Like Judge McGarr, I do not find persuasive any of the
suggestions that the Act could not cause the estate irreparable
harm. And while the Solicitor General suggests that a
Tucker Act remedy may exist in the event of an unconstitutional taking, see Memorandum for United States 5-6, it is
obvious that his suggestion is equivocal. Moreover, having
read the parties' submissions, I am now of the opinion that
Judge McGarr was probably correct m concluding that the
Act authorizes an unconstitutional taking of property of the
estate. It appears to direct a transfer of $75 million off the
top of the estate's assets to the employees. While such a
transfer might be permissible in the course of a genuine reorganization, at least as of this moment, I have difficulty
perceiving how, in the context of a liquidation, this is anything other than a simple taking of the property of the general creditors, as the Trustee argues.
Accordingly, since there is a strong possibility that a stay
would set in motion a chain of events that would lead to
substantial payments that would be unconstitutional and
unrecoverable, I believe that a sufficient showing of irreparable
damage has been made to support the entry of the preliminary injunction. Necessarily, my views are tentative, based
as they are on the relatively brief submissions of the parties.
Nonetheless, for the foregoing reasons, I have decided to deny
the application for a stay

