444

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

252 U. S.

Syllabus.

-

or withheld from such transportation, according to the
character of the information reported, was so connected
with interstate commerce as to preclude the State of
Kentucky from imposing a privilege tax upon such business.
. Applying the principles of these cases, it is abundantly
established that there is no ground for claiming that the
transactions which are the basis of the present suit, concerning advertising in journals to be subsequently distributed in interstate commerce, are contracts. which
directly affect such commerce. Their incidental relation
thereto cannot lay the groundwork for such contentions
as are undertaken to be here maintained under ยง 7 of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act. The court was right in dismissing the suit.

Aftwmd.

ASKREN, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF NEW MEXICO, ET AL. v. CONTINENTAL
OIL COMPANY.
SAME v. SINCLAIR REFINING COMPANY.
SAME

v. THE

TEXAS

COMPANY.

APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO.
Nos. 521-523.

Argued January 5, 6, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

A law of New Mexico defining "distributors" of gasoline as those who
sell it from tank cars, receiving tanks or stations, or in or from tanks,

barrels or packages not purchased from a licensed distributor, and
"retail dealers" as those other than distributors who sell it in
quantities of 50 gallons or less, lays an annual license tax of $50.00

ASKREN v. CONTINENTAL OIL CO.
444.

.445

Opinion of the Court.

on each distributor for each distributing station, place of business or
agency, and of $5.00 on each retailer for every place of business or
agency,-besides imposing an excise of 2o per gallon on all gasoline
sold or used, to be paid and made return of by distributors and
dealers; it provides inspectors to see to its enforcement, and devotes
the resulting revenue first to pay their salaries and expenses, and
then to a highway fund. Held, that it is not an inspection act merely,
but a privilege tax; and, as applied to parties who bring gasoline
from without and sell it within the State, the act is void-a burden
on interstate commerce-in so far as it relates to their business of
selling in tank car lots and in barrels and packages, as originally
imported from other States, but, if separable, it is valid in its application to sales made from such original packages in retail quantities
to suit purchasers. P. 447.
An excise on purely local dealing in a commodity cannot be treated
as a discrimination against other States merely because the commodity is not produced in the State imposing the tax but comes
wholly from other States. P. 449.
The question whether an act assuming to tax a business in its interstate
and intrastate aspects is separable as to the latter, reserved for final
hearing where the relative importance of the two classes of business
as conducted by plaintiffs could not be ascertained from the case
as made on application for temporary injunction. P. 450.
Affirmed..
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. A. B. Renehan, with whom Mr. 0. 0. Askren,

Attorney General of the State of New Mexico, and Mr.
Harry S. Bowman, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of New Mexico, were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Charles R. Brock and Mr. F. R. Wright, with whom
Mr. Milton Smith, Mr. W. H. Ferguson, Mr. S. B. Davis,

Jr., and Mr. Elmer L. Brock were on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JusTicE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These suits were brought by the three companies,
'appellees, in the District Court of the United States for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

District of New Mexico, to enjoin the enforcement of an
act of the legislature of the. State. entitled:.' An Act providing for an excise tax upon the sale or use of gasoline
and for a license tax to be paid by distributors and retail
dealers therein; providing for collection and application of
such taxes; providing for the inspection of gasoline and
making it unlawful to sell gasoline below a certain grade
without notifying purchaser thereof; providing penalties
for violations of this act and for other purposes." The
law is found in Session Laws of New Mexico, 1919, c. 93,
p. 182,
The cause came before three judges upon an application
for temporary injuncti6n and a counter-motion to dismiss
the, bills of complaint. The temporary injunction was
granted, and a direct appeal taken to this court.
The provisions of the act so far as necessary to be considered define a distributor of gasoline as meaning "every
person, corporation, firm, co-partnership and association
who sells gasoline froin.tank cars, receiving tanks or stations, or in'or from tanks, barrels or packages not purchased from a licensed distributor of gasoline in this
State." A retail dealer is defined as meaning: "A person,
other than a 'distributor of gasoline, who sells gasoline
in quantities of fifty gallons or less." Every distributor is
required to pay an annual license tax of $50.00 for each
distributing. station, or place of business, and agency.
Every retail dealer is required to pay an annual license tax
of $5.00 for every place of business or agency. An excise
tax is imposed upon the sale or use of gasoline sold or used
in the State after July 1, 1919; such tax -to be 2c per gallon
on all gasoline so sold or used. Any distributor, or dealer,
who shall fail to make return or statement as required in
the act, or shall refuse, neglect or fail to pay the tax upon
all sales or use of gasoline, or who shall make any false return or statement, or shall knowingly sell, distribute or use
any gasoline without the tax upon the sale or use thereof

ASKREN v. CONTINENTAL OIL CO.
444.

Opinion of the Court.

having been paid as provided in the act shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished by a fine and forfeiture of his license. It is made unlawful for any person
(except tourists or travelers to the extent provided in the
act) to use any gasoline not purchased from a licensed distributor or retail dealer without paying the tax of 2c per
gallon. Inspectors are provided for, for each of the eight
Judicial Districts of the State, who are required to see
that the provisions of the act are enforced, and privileged
to examine books and accounts of distributors and retail
dealers, or warehousemen or others receiving and storing
gasoline and of railroad and transportation companies,
relating to purchases, receipts, shipments, or sales of
gasoline; their salaries are provided, and salaries and expense bills are to be paid out of the State Road Fund.
Any person who shall engage or Continue in the business of
selling gasoline without a license or after such license has
been forfeited, or shall fail to render any statement, or
make any false statement therein, or who shall violate any
provision of the act the punishment for which has not been
theretofore provided, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine or
imprisonment, or both. The State Treasurer is required to
set aside from the license fees and taxes collected under the
provisions of the act a sufficient sum to pay the salaries and
traveling expenses of the inspectors out of the money received from such collections, and to place the balance
to the credit of the State Road Fund to be used for the
construction, improvement and maintenance of public
highways.
It is evident from the provisions of the ace thus stated
that it is not an inspection act merely; indeed, the inspectors do not seem to be required to make any inspection.
beyond seeing that the provisions of the'act are'enforced,
and the excess of the salaries and fees of the inspectors is
to be used in making roads within the State. Considering

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

its provisions and the effect of the act, it is a tax upon
the privilege of dealing in gasoline in the State of New
Mexico.
The bills in the three cases are identical except as to the
number of distributing stations alleged to belong to the
companies respectively. As there was no answer, and the
bills were considered upon application for injunction, and
motion to dismiss, their allegations must be taken to be
true.
Plaintiffs are engaged in the business of buying and selling gasoline and other petroleum products. The bills state
that they purchase gasoline in the States of Colorado,
California, Oklahoma, Texas and Kansas, and ship it into
the State of New Mexico, there to be sold and delivered.
The bills describe two classes of business-first, that they
purchase in the States mentioned, or in some one of said
States, gasoline, and ship it in tank cars from the State
in which purchased into the State of New Mexico, and
there, according to their custom and the ordinary method
in the conduct of their business, sell in tank cars the whole
of the contents thereof to a single customer, before the
package or packages, in which the gasoline was shipped
have been broken. In the usual and regular course of their
biusiness they purchase gasoline in one of the States, other
than the State of New Mexico, and ship it, so purchased
from that State, in barrels and packages containing not less
than two 5-gallon cans, into the State of New Mexico, and
there, in the usual and ordinary course of their business,
without breaking the barrels and packages, containing the
cans, it is their custom to sell the gasoline in the original
packages and barrels. The gasoline is sold and delivered to
the customers in precisely the same form and condition as
when received in the State of New Mexico; that this manner of sale makes the plaintiffs distributors of gasoline as
the term is defined in the statute, and they are required to
pay the sum of $50.00 per annum for each of their stations

ASKREN v. CONTINENTAL OIL CO.
444.

Opinion of the Court.

as an annual license tax for purchasing, shipping and
selling gasoline as aforesaid.
A second method of dealing in gasoline is described in
'the bills: That the gasoline shipped to the plaintiffs from
the other States, as aforesaid, is in tank cars, and plaintiff,
or plaintiffs, sell such gasoline from such tank cars, barrels
and packagep in such quantities as the purchaser requires.
As to the gasoline brought into the State in the tank
cars, or in the original packages, and so sold, we are unable
to discover any difference in plan of importation and sale
between the instant case and that before us-in Standard
Oil Co. v. Graves, 249 U. S.389, in which we held that a
tax, which Was in effect a privilege tax, as is the one under
consideration, providing for a levy of fees in excess of the
cost of inspection, amounted to a direct burden on interstate commerce. In that case we reaffirmed, what had
often been adjudicated heretofore in this court, that the
direct and necessary effect of such legislation was to impose a burden upon interstate commerce; that under the
Federal Constitution the importer of such products from
another State into his own State for sale in the original
packages, had a right to sell the same in such packages
without being taxed for the privilege by taxation of the
sort here involved. Upon this branch of the case we deem
it only necessary to refer to that case, and the cases therein
cited, as establishing the proposition that the license tax
upon the sale of gasoline brought into the State in tank
cars, or original packages, and thus sold, is beyond the
taxing power of the State.
The plaintiffs state in the bills that their business in part
consists in selling gasoline in retail in quantities to suit
purchasers. A business of this sort, although the gasoline
was brought into the State in interstate commerce, is
properly taxable by the laws of the State.
Much is made of the fact that New Mexico does not
produce gasoline, and all of it that is dealt in within that

1450

OWOCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

State must be brought in from other States. But, so long
as there is no discrimination against the products of
another State, and none is shown from the mere fact that
the gasoline is produced in another State, the gasoline
thus stored and dealt in, is not beyond the taxing power of
the State. Wagner v. City of Covington, 251 U. S.95; and
the cases from this court cited therein.
Sales of the class last mentioned would be a subject of
taxation within the legitimate power of the State. But
from the averments of the bills it is impossible to determine the relative importance'of this part of the business as
compared with that which is non-taxable, and at this
preliminary stage of the cases we will not go into the
question whether the act is separable, and capable of being
sustained so far as it imposes a tax upon business legitimately taxable. That question may be-reserved for the
final hearing. The District Court did not err in granting
the temporary injunctions, and its orders are
Af rmed.

CAMERON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 205.

Argued January 29, 30, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

The inclusion of part of a national forest within a monument reserveunder the Act of June 8, 1906, c. 3060, 34 Stat. 225, by a proclamation of the President providing that both reservations shall stand

as to the common area but that the monument reserve shall be
dominant, and saving valid claims theretofore acquired, withdaws
such area, except as to such claims, from the operation cf lie mineral
land law. P. 454.
The Grand Canyon of the Colorado, in Arizona, is an "object of scien-

