112

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. B.

GRAND TRUNK WESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 153.

Argued January 21, 22, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

In settling with a railroad company under its current contract for mail
transportation, the Postmaster General may deduct overpayments
made under earlier contracts without waiting for their amount to be
ascertained by suit. P. 120.
The right of the United States to recover such overpayments is not
barred by time. P. 121.
The rule that a long-continued construction of a statute by a department of the Government should not readily be changed to the injury
of parties who have relied upon it in contracting with the Government, does not apply to a long-continued practice of making overpayments, due to a mistake of fact. Id.
The obligation to carry the mail at the rates fixed by Congress attaches to a land-aided railroad like an easement or charge; a company purchasing under foreclosure takes the road with notice of
the obligation; and its duty to perform is not affected by the fact
that it received none of the land and obtained no benefit from the
grant. Id.
Where a railway-aid.grant is made by act of Congress to a State with
the provision that over the railway to be aided the mail shall be
transported at such price as Congress may by law direct, a company
which before completion of its road applies to the State for the land
to aid in such completion, receives the State's patent therefor, reciting that such is the purpose, and expressly assents to the terms and
conditions of the granting act and proceeds to dispose of the land,
is subject to the duty imposed, whether it was in fact aided by the
grant in building its road or not; nor is its successor in any better
positioil to question this effect of accepting the grant when it acquires the first company's property through a foreclosure to which
that company's interest in such lands was made subject as after-acquired property covered by the mortgage. P. 122.
Where lands granted as railway-aid lands by Congress to a State are
accepted by a railroad company and aid in the construction of its
railroad, the obligation to carry the mails, as stipulated in the grant-

GRAND TRUNK WN. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
112.

113

Argument for Appellant.

ing act, attaches to the road so aided, however disproportionate
the aid to the cost of construction, and this notwithstanding the
company, in accepting the land and assuming the burden, may
have relied upon other lands applied for at the same time and included in the same state patent, but which it lost through decisions of the state court holding them inapplicable to its road
under the granting act and the state law passed in pursuance of
it. P. 123.
In such case the obligation respecting the mails cannot be escaped
upon the ground that the contract between the company and the
State, resting on an entire consideration, in part illegal, was void,
where the United States was not a party to the contract and where
its reversionary title was relinquished by Congress to the State. Id.
53 Ct. Clms. 473, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion..
Mr. Theo. D. Halpin, with whom Mr. Harrison Geer,
Mr. L. T. Michener and Mr. P. G. Michener were on the

briefs, for appellant:
The land grant is the consideration for the promise of
the railroad to carry mails at a price fixed by Congress.
Rogers v. P. H. & L. M. R. R. Co., 45 Michigan, 460; Union

Pacific R. R. Co. v. United States, 104 U. S. 662; Atchison, Tbpeka'& Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. United States, 225

U. S. 640.
In making contracts, the United States lays aside its
sovereignty and its contracts are tested as to validity by
the same principles which govern in other cases.

The attempted contract between the State and the
Port Huron & Lake Michigan Railroad Company, whereby
the former undertook to grant lands not only east of Flint,
where the railroad had already been constructed, but
lands west of Flint, where it was never constructed, was

void for illegality, because made in violation of the trust,
in full force and effect at the time, under which the State

held the land from the United States. Bowes v. Haywood,
35 Michigan, 241; Fenn v. Kinsey, 45 Michigan, 446;

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

Schulenberg v, Harriman,21 Wall. 44; Swann v. Miller, 82
Alabama, 530. The acceptance of the railroad company
failed to complete a binding contract because the major
part of the consideration moving to the Port Huron &
Lake Michigan Railroad Company was void for illegality
and the consideration was indivisible.
There are no means to ascertain whether the promise of
the railroad was induced by the legal or illegal portion of
the consideration.
The act of Congress making the grant contemplated a
grant of six sections per mile, or 230,400 acres for the
sixty miles of road between Port Huron and Flint. The
available land between Port Huron and Flint was about
three per cent. of this, and less than the amount called for
by the act for the construction of two miles of road. To
hold the railroad to its promise in consideration of the
grant of about six thousand acres, is to make an entirely
different contr&ct than that contemplated by all parties
when the illega:l contract was entered into.
The railroad between Port Huron and Flint was not
constructed in whole or in part by a land grant made by
Congress. United States v. Alabama Great Southern R. R.
Co., 142 U. S. 615. The Act of June 3, 1856, requires that
the lands granted shall aid or be exclusively applied in the
construction of the road-help construct it-and forbids
the application of the statutes to a road not so aided or
helped. The road so constructed is a land aided or- land
grant road, and not otherwise. 1 Ops. Asst. Atty. Gen.,
P. 0. Dept., 777, 875, 879; 2 ibid., 312; Coler v. Board of
Commissioners, 89 Fed. Rep. 257; De Graff v. St. Paul &
Pacific R. R. Co., 23 Minnesota, 144; Chicago, Milwaukee
& St. PaulR. R. Co. v. United States, 14 Ct. Clms. 125; s. c.
104 U. S. 687-689. Such aid must be established as a fact,
to bind the railroad.
When the Act of July 12, 1876, went into effect, at a
time when all the facts were fresh and easily ascertained,

GRAND TRUNK WN. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
112.

115

Argument for Appellant.

the Post Office Department commenced to treat the road
as a'non-land grant road, and so continued for thirty-six
years. It had l1een treated as a non-land grant road for
twenty-four years when the plaintiff acquired it by purchase, in 1900. The sixty-six miles had been completed
before the land was granted. It had been so far constructed and completed by January 1, 1872, that on that
date it commenced to carry the mail under contract with
the Post Office Department. It is not shown, nor was it
attempted to be, that any part of the proceeds of the land
aided in the construction of the road, or, in fact, ever
reached the railroad company.
The Port Huron & Lake Michigan Railroad took title
to the lands east of Flint as a gift or subsidy under the Act
of the Michigan legislature, approved June 9, 1881, and
not uider the patent of May 30, 1873.
The appellant is not estopped to claim that there is no
valid contract. It did not receive the lands. The reasons
given for holding that the Port Huron & Lake Michigan
Railroad Coimnpany was estopped, are unconvincing even
as applied to that railroad. It did not seek the conveyance of the lands east of Flint except as it sought the conveyance of all the lands. It accepted the conveyance of
all the lands "in terms" and proceeded to exercise control
and disposition of all of them, and there is no fact in
the record to show that it ever exercised control and
disposition of the lands east, as separate from the lands
west.
The trustee was a trustee of all the lands and the record
is barren of any act of that trustee relating to the lands
east of Flint, although it does show that he acted as to
the lands west, involved in Bowes v. Haywood, supra; Fenn
v. Kinsey, supra.
The road did not ask for the lands east of Flint at any
time when the lands west- of Flint were not included, and
when it "solemnly accepted the grant," it must be borne

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

in mind that the acceptance was not of 6,400 acres, but
of more than 36,000.
We submit that there are here none of the elements of
estoppel. There has been no change of position by this
claimant, or any of the previous owners of the road, to the
detriment of the United States. On the contrary, all of
them and the United States, until November 27, 1912,
acted on the theory and in the belief that the road between
Port Huron and Flint was not a land-aided road. For
forty years all the parties concerned, the owning companies
and the United States, acted upon a theory, a practice
and a construction directly contrary to the view that the
road between those points was land-aided. If the doctrine of estoppel is applicable here, it is against the United
States alone.
Legal rights are not lost by the silence or inaction of one
party that does not produce a change of position resulting
injuriously to others. Jones v. United States, 96 U. S. 24,
29; Pickard. v. Sears, 6 Ad. & El. 469, 474; Hawes v.
Marchant, 1 Curtis C. C. 136, 144.
The Government is bound by the departmental construction extending over forty years. United States v.
Alabama Great Southern R. R. Co., 142 U. S. 615, and other
cases.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Spelacy, with whom
Mr. Leonard B. Zeisler and Mr. Charles H. Weston, Special
Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the brief, for
the United States.
MR. JUsTICE BRkNDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
The railroad from Port Huron to Flint, in Michigan,
sixty miles in length, was completed on December 12, 1871.
It was built by the Port Huron and Lake Michigan Railroad Company. By foreclosure of a mortgage executed

GRAND TRUNK WN. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
112.

117

Opinion of the Court.

by that corporation and several consolidations it became
on October 31, 1900, the property of the Grand Trunk
Western Railway Company and has since been a part of its
system. For forty-one years after the completion of this
sixty-mile road the mails were carried over it by the successive owners under the usual postal contracts and payment was made for the service quarterly at full rates. In
1912 the Postmaster General, concluding that this was a
land-aided railroad within the provisions of ยง 13 of the
Act of July 12, 1876, c. 179, 19 Stat. 78, 82,1 restated the
account for the twelve full years during which the road
had been operated by the Grand Trunk Western. Twenty
per cent. of the mail pay for that period was found to be
$50,359.70; and this amount he deducted from sums accruing to the company under the current mail contract.
He also reduced by twenty per cent. the amount otherwise
payable under the current contract for carrying the mail
over this part of its system. Thus he deducted altogether
$52,566.87 from the amount payable on June 30, 1913.
The road had in fact been built without any aid through
grant of public lands. None had passed to the Grand
Trunk Western when it acquired the road; and, so far as
appears, that company had no actual knowledge that
any of its predecessors in title had acquired any public
land because of its construction. The company insisted
that the $52,566.87 thus deducted from its mail pay was
withheld without warrant in law, and brought this suit
in the Court of Claims to recover the amount. 53 Ct.
Chns. 473. Its petition was dismissed and the case comes
here on appeal. Whether the company is entitled to relief depends upon the legal effect of the following facts.
"Sec. 13. That rail-road-companies whose railroad was constructed
in whole or in part by a land-grant made by Congress on the condition
that the mails should be transported over their road at such price ba
Congress should by law direct shall receive only eighty per centum of
the compensation authorized by this act."

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

By Act of June 3, 1856, c. 44, 11 Stat. 21, Congress
granted to Michigan public land to aid in the construction
of certain lines of railroad, a part extending easterly of
Flint to Port Huron-another part, westerly of Flint to
Grand Haven. The act contained in ยง 5 the usual mail
provision. 1 In 1857 the legislature of Michigan granted
these lands to two companies on condition that they accept the obligations of the grant within sixty days. [Act
of February 14, 1857, Laws Mich., 1857, p. 346.] Each
company filed within the specified time a partial acceptance, refusing to accede to the taxation features of the
grant. Thereupon the rights of each to any part of the
public lands was declared forfeited by the state aithorities for failure to comply with the state legislation. Subsequently the companies filed maps of definite location in
the General Land Office of the Interior Department,
which were approved by that office; and on June 3, 1863,
the Secretary of the Interior certified to the Governor of
Michigan 30,998.76 acres of land lying west of Flint for
the company which was to build the line from Grand
Haven to Flint, the Detroit and Milwaukee Railway Company. On November 1, 1864, he certified 6,428.68 acres,
all but 97 40/100 acres of which lay east of Flint, for the
company which was to build the line from Flint to Port
Huron, the Port Huron and Milwaukee Railway Company.
Neither company constructed its line nor received any
patent for land. The rights of way and other property of
the Port Huron and Milwaukee Railway Company passed
through a foreclosure sale to the Port Huron and Lake
Michigan Railroad Company; and this corporation built
the road in question during the years 1869, 1870 and 1871.
S'Sec. 5. And be it further enacted, That the United States mail
shall be transported over said roads, under the direction of the PostOffice Department, at such price as Congress may, by law, direct: Provided, That until such price is fixed by law, the Postmaster-General
shall have the power to determine the same."

GRAND TRUNK WN. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
112.

119

Opinion of the Court.

But it made no application for any part of these lands until three weeks before the completion of the road. Then,
on November 18, 1871, it petitioned the State Board of
Control, which was charged with the disposition of the
public lands, to confer upon it both the 30,998.76 acres
west of Flint and the 6,428.68 acres east of Flint which
the Secretary of the Interior had certified; and in so applying it asked for the land "for the purpose of aiding in
the construction" of its contemplated railroad which was
described as extending from Grand Haven to Flint and
thence to Port Huron. The board approved of- making
the grant "for the purpose of aiding in the construction
of the road;" but no further action was taken until May
1, 1873, when upon a new petition of the company which
recited the former proceedings and the completion of
"sixty miles of the unfinished portion of said line" the
board directed the transfer of all the land to it. The resolution of the board was followed on May 30, 1873, by a
patent for all the land from the Governor of the State, its
formal acceptance by the company subject to the provisions of the Act of Congress of June 3, 1856, and action by
it to take possession of the land and to dispose of it for
the benefit of the company. In 1877 the Supreme Court
of Michigan held in Bowes v. Haywood, 35 Michigan, 241,
that the . atent so far as it purported to transfer the
30,998.76 acres west of Flint was void under the Michigan
legislation, because there had not, in fact, been any claim
or pretence that the company ever contemplated building
the line west of Flint; and in Fenn v. Kinsey, 45 Michigan,
446, '(1881), that court held that an act of the Michigan
legislature passed May 14, 1877, which purported to ratify the patent, was inoperative so far as it concerned the
lands west of Flint because it impaired rights reserved to
the United States by the Act of June 3, 1856. Meanwhile,
Congress had relinquished to Michigan, by Joint Resolution of March 3, 1879, No. 15, 20 Stat. 490, its reversionary

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

interest in the lands; 1 and thereafter the legislature of
Michigan (Act of June 9, 1881, Laws Mich., 1881, p. 362),
ratified as to the six thousand acres east of Flint, the action theretofore taken by the state authorities, declaring
also that "all deeds and conveyances heretofore executed
by the Port Huron and Lake Michigan railroad company"
"shall be deemed of full force and effect" and that the
"rest and residue of said lands is vested in said company,
its successor or assigns." Whether there remained then any
land which had not been disposed of by that company or
one of its successors does not appear; but it does appear
that when in 1875 proceedings were taken to foreclose the
mortgage under which the appellant claims title to the road,
the trustee to whom the lands had been transferred for
the company's benefit was joined for the purpose of including all such interest in the property to be sold.
The Act of June 3, 1856, had contemplated a grant of
six sections (3,840 acres) per mile of road to be constructed.
That would have been 230,400 acres for the sixty miles.
The company which built them and those claiming under
it received at most 6,428 acres. The case is one of apparent hardship. Was the judgment of the Court of Claims
denying relief required by the applicable rules of law?
First: If the railroad was land-aided, payment of more
than eighty per cent. of the full rates otherwise provided
by law was unauthorized; and it was the duty of the Postmaster General to seek to recover the overpayment. Rev.
Resolution of March 3, 1879, "That the United States hereby releases to the State of Michigan any and all reversionary interest which
may remain in the United States in such of the lands granted to, and
acquired by the said State of Michigan by act of Congress of June third,
eighteen hundred and fifty-six, and certified to the said State in accordance with the said act, as were granted to aid the construction
of the road from Grand Haven to Flint, and thence to Port Huron.
This release shall not in any manner affect any legal or equitable rights
in said lands, which have been acquired, but all such rights shall be
and remain unimpaired."

GRAND TRUNK WN. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
112.

121

Opinion of the Court.

Stats., ยง 4057. He was under no obligat'on to establish
the illegality by suit. Having satisfied himself of the fact
he was at liberty to deduct the amount of tye overpayment from the monies otherwise payable to the company
to which the overpayment had been made. Wisconsin
Central R. R. Co. v. United States, 164 U. S. 190. -There
was no attempt to include in the deduction any alleged
overpayment to any of appellant's predecessors in title.
Balances due for carrying the mails, although arising
under successive quadrennial contracts, are regarded as
running accounts, and monies paid in violation of law
upon balances certified by the accounting officers may be
recovered by means of a later debit in these accounts. It
'matters not how long a time elapsed before the error in
making the overpayment was discovered or how Jlong the
attempt to recover it was deferred. The statute of rlimitations does not ordinarily run against the United States
and Would not present a bar to a suit for the amount.
See United States v. Thompson, 98 U. S. 486. It is true
that when a department charged with the execution of a
statute gives it a construction and acts upon that construction uniformly for a series of years, the court will look
with disfavor upon a change whereby parties who have
contracted with the Government upon the faith of that
construction would be injured. United States v. Alabama
Great Southern R. R. Co., 142 U. S. 615. But here the
practice long continued of paying the full rate instead of
eighty per cent. thereof was not due to any construction
of a statute which the department later sought to abandon, but to what is alleged to be a mistake of fact-due
perhaps to an oversight. To such a case the rule of longcontinued construction has no application. The appellant
must be held to have taken the road with notice of the
burdens legally imposed upon it.
Second: If the road was land-aided, it is immaterial that
the company which later carries the mail over it received

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

none of the land and obtained no benefit from the grant.
The obligation to carry mails at eighty per cent. of rates
otherwise payable attached to the road like an easement or charge; and it affects every carrier who may thereafter use the railroad, whatever the nature of the tenure.
Chicago, St. Paul, etc., Ry. Co. v. United States, 217 U. S.
180. The appellant expressly disclaims any contention
that the mail clause should not apply because the quantity
of land covered by the grant was small as compared with
that contemplated by the Act of June 3, 1856, and with
the cost of the road.
Third: It is contended that this railroad was not landaided, because it had, in fact, been completed without the ')
aid either of funds or of credit derived from these public
lands. Whether the Port Huron and Lake Michigan
Company which built the railroad was in fact aided by the
land grant in so doing is immaterial. Before the road had
been fully completed it asked that the land be granted to
it in aid of the construction, and for this purpose only
could the grant be made under the act of Congress. It
accepted from the State a patent for the land which recited that such was the purpose of the conveyance; and
it expressly assented to the terms and conditions of the
grant imposed by the Act of June 3, 1856. Thereafter it
proceeded to dispose of the land. Throughout this period
the Port Huron and Lake Michigan Company remained
the owner of the railroad. It had been authorized by its
charter to receive the land-grant and necessarily to assent
to the conditions upon which alone the grant could be
made to it. It is true that the mortgage upon its property,
under which appellant claims title, was executed before
the company had applied for the grant; and it does not
appear that the mortgage purported specifically to cover
public lands; but the trustee under the mortgage claimed
these lands as after acquired property and the company's
interest in them was, by special proceeding, made subject

GRAND TRUNK WN. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
112.

123

Opinion of the Court.

to the foreclosure proceedings. The appellant is therefore in no better position than the Port Huron and Lake
Michigan Company to question the charge upon the railroad imposed by acceptance of the grant.
Fourth: Appellant points to the fact that the patent to
the lands lying west of Flint was later held to be void by
the Supreme Court of the State; and insists that thereby
the charge or condition concerning the carriage of the
mail must be held to have been relinquished. But the
patent to the lands east of Flint never was declared void;
the company's title to them never was questioned; and
the objection to the patent to the western lands did not
apply to them. That objection was that the Port Huron
and Lake Michigan Railway Company was not a "competent party" to receive the western lands within the
meaning of the eleventh section of the Michigan Act of
1857, because it did not propose to construct a line from
Grand Haven to Owosso. Bowes v. Haywood, supra, 246.
And the attempt by the legislature to make it a "competent party" through the Act of 1877 violated the obligations of the Federal Government's grant. Fenn v. Kinsey,
supra. The only flaw in the title to the lands east of Flint
lay in the fact that the railway had not been completed
within ten years of the Act of June 3, 1856, as required by
that act. This requirement, however, was a condition
subsequently annexed to an estate in fee, and the title remained valid until.the Federal Government should take
action by legislation or judicial proceedings to enforce a
forfeiture of the estate. Schulenberg v. Harriman,21 Wall.
44, 63-64; Railroad Land Co. v. Courtright, 21 Wall. 310,
316. So far from doing so Congress relinquished by joint
resolution its reversionary interest in the land, and thereby
removed all possibility of objection on its part to the validity of the patent; and the State of Michigan later ratified
the patent by legislation admitted to be valid.
Fifth: The appellant urges that the illegality of the pat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

ent to the western lands constituted a failure of consideration which voided the contract with the Government.
The burden of the mail clause, it says, could be imposed
only by contract between the Government and Port Huron and Lake Michigan Company. The contract was for
land west as well as east of Flint-and the land west could
legally be granted only if the company contemplated
building the road westward to Grand Haven. As there
was not even a pretence that it contemplated such construction, the contract was illegal. The Government's
claim under the mail clause must fail, because no rights
can be acquired under an illegal contract. So the appellant contends. Such a view is the result of regarding
the transaction as a promise by the railway to the Government to carry the mail at a price fixed by Congress,
on consideration of 36,000 acres of public land. A contract of this sort would create a purely personal obligation
attaching "to the company, and not to the property,"clearly not to a mere licensee. However, it is settled that
the obligation in question is not of this nature but does
attach to the property, even when used by a licdnsee.
Chicago, St. Paul, etc., Ry. Co. v. United States, 217 U. S.
180. The obligationof a land-aided railway to carry the
mail at a price fixed by Congress is a charge upon the property. The public lands were granted to Michigan to aid
the construction of certain railways upon certain conditions. The legislature of Michigan could not dispose of

the lands except in accordance with the terms of the grant.
By the Act of February 14, 1857, it accepted the grant
and enacted. legislation to give legal effect to the conditions of it. Section 4 of the act is as follows:
"Said railroads shall be and forever remain public highways for the use of the government of the United States,
free from toll or other charge upon the transportation of
any property or troops of the United States; and the
United States mail shall be transported over said railroads,

GRAND TRUNK WN. RY. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
112.

125

Opinion of the Court.

under the direction of the post-office department, at such
price
Congress may by law direct.
Theasorder
of the Board of Control of May 1, 1873,
directing the transfer of the land to the Port Huron and Lake
Michigan Company, and the patent issued by the Governor were founded upon the authority of ยง 11 of this act;
and under date of May 30, 1873, the company accepted
the lands with the burdens they imposed. The railroad,
whose owners and constructors accepted aid derived from
these lands, became charged by operation of law with the
burden of transporting the mails. The question whether
that company would have accepted the land with its burdens if it had foreseen the invalidity of the title to the
western lands, is wholly immaterial. The burden attached upon the acceptance of any aid whatsoever no
matter how disproportionate to the cost of constructing
the portion so aided.
The transaction called illegal was one between the company and the state authorities. The United States was no
party to it. It had merely supplied property which the
parties to it used. The Government never objected to the
disposition made of it; and evidenced its approval by
passage of the Joint Resolution of March 3, 1879. No
reason exists why rights by way of charge upon the railroad which were acquired by the Government through
the acceptance of six thousand acres of public land, should
be invalidated by the alleged illegality of the state authorities' action in issuing a patent to a wholly different
tract.

Apim~red.

