OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
'Counsel forPlaintiff in Error.

252 U. S.

journey would burden interstate commerce as to cost and
in the practical operation of the traffic. The provision
for a separate compartment for the use of only intrastate
colored passengers would lead. to confusion and discrimination. The same interstate transportation would be subject .to conflicting regulation.in the two States in which it
is conducted.
It seems to me that the statute in question as applied to
the traffic here involved is an unreasonable regulation and
burdensome to interstate commerce, and, therefore, beyond the power of the State. I think the judgment should
-be reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTCE PITNEY
concur in this dissent.

CINCINNATI, COVINGTON & ERLANGER RAILWAY COMPANY v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 253.

Argued March 18,19, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

Decided on the authority of South Coving

& Cinnnati Stree R&.

Co. v. Kentuy, Antq, 399.

181 Kentucky, 449, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alfred C. Caosatt,with whom Mr. J. C. W. Beckham,
Mr.. Richard P. Ernst and Mr. Frank W. Cottle were on
the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

CINCINNATI &c. RY. CO. v. KENTUCKY.
408.

409

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Stephens L. Blakely, with whom Mr. Chas. I. Dawson, Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
This case was argued with No. 252, South Covingion &
Cincinnati Street Ry. Co. v. Kentucky, ante, 399. It was
disposed of by the Court of Appeals with ,that case in one
opinion. The company was indicted as the other company
was for a violation of the Separate Coach Law of the State
and found guilty. The facts are in essence the same as in
the other case, though the indictment is more elaborate.
The defenses and contentions are the same. We have
stated them, and upon what they are based, and the
character and relation of the companies, in our bpinion in
the other case.
The company is an interurban road and the Separate
Coach Law is applicable to it. It was incorporated under
the general laws of the State and authority conferred
upon it to construct and operate an electric railway from
the City of Covington to the town of Erlanger, and to
such further point beyond Erlanger as might be determined. It was constructed from Covington to a point
just beyond the suburban town called Fort Mitchell, a
town of. a few hundred inhabitants.
The South Covington and Cincinnati Street Railway
Company furnished the means to build the road and at
the time covered by the indictment was operating the
.road. as part of its railway system as described in the
other case.
The intimate relations of the roads as stated by the
Court of Appeals, we have set forth in the other case, and
it is only necessary to add that the indictment in the
present case charges that the company in this case was

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
DAY, VAN DEVANTER

and PITNEY, JJ., dissenting. 252 U. S.

the lessor of the other company and thereby "permitted
and brought about the acquisition of its rights and privileges knowing that" the other company, "would not
operate and run separate coaches for its white and colored
passengers." And, it is charged that the other company operating the lease violated the law and that the
defendant company knowing of the intended method
of operation, also violated the law. These facts and
other facts the Court. of Appeals decided made the company an offender against the statute, and decided further that the statute was not an interference with interstate commerce. The conviction of the company was
sustained.
Our reviewing power, we think, is limited to the last
point, that is, the effect of the lawas an interference with
interstate commerce, and that we disposed of in the other
case. The distinction counsel make between street railways and other railways, and between urban and interurban roads, we are not concerned with.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JusM Ic DAY, dissenting.
This case is controlled by the disposition made of No.
252. While it is true that the Erlanger Company was
incorporated under the laws of the State of Kentucky,
the proof shows that its road was built and operated by
the South Covington & Cincinnati Street Railway Company as'part of the latter's system. This is not a proceeding to test the right to operate the road. The conviction
is justified because the local company permitted the
principal company to operate without separate coaches
or compartments for its colored passengers. The traffic
conducted is of an interstate nature, and the same reasons
which impel a dissent in No. 252 require a like dissent in
the present case.
In my opinion the single traffic over both railroads being

KENNEY v. SUPREME LODGE.
408.

Counsel for Petitioner and Plaintiff in Error.

interstate, the regulation embodied in the statute and for
which the conviction was had, as to -both roads, is an unreasonable and burdensome interference with interstate

commerce.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JusTIcE PITNEY

concur in this dissent.

KENNEY, ADMINISTRATOR OF KENNEY, v.
SUPREME LODGE OF THE WORLD, LOYAL
ORDER OF MOOSE.
CERTIORARI AND ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE

STATE OF ILIJNOIs..
Nos. 269, 303.

Argued March 23, 1920.-Decided April 19,. i923.

A statute denying jurisdiction to the icourts of Illinois in'actions for
damages occasioned by death occurling m another State in consequence of wrongful conduct was construed Sy the Supreme- Court.
of the State as applying equally to an action on a -ister-state judgment founded on such a cause of action. Hdd, that, so applied, it
contravened the full faith dan .credit clause of the Constitution.
P. 414.
The law of Alabama, which gives a right of action in that State for
death by wrongful act, cannot, by its declaration that such actions
may not be maintained elsewhere, affect the right to enforce by
action in another State a judgment, recovered- on such a cause of
action in Alabama. P. 415.'
A judgment of a state supreme court givinga meaning and effect to
a statute of the State which brings it in conflict with the Federal
Constitution is reviewable by writ of error. P. 416.
285 Illinois, 188, reversed; writ of certio ari dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

-

Mr. G. R. Harsh for petitioner and plaintiff in error.

