GAYON v. McCARTHY.

Opinion of the Court.

GAYON v. McCARTHY, UNITED STATES MARSHAL FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AND ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
No. 540.

Argued January 6, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

Engaging another to go to Mexico to join revolutionary forces, under
promise of a commission and probable reimbursement for expenses,
is a "retaining," within the meaning of § 10 of the Criminal Code.
P. 177.
Evidence held sufficient to show probable cause, and sustain an order
of removal.
Affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William S. Bennet with whom Mr. A. M. Watten
berg was on the brief, for appellant and plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Stewart, with whom Mr.
W. C. Herron was on the brief, for appellees and defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The appellant, Gayon, was indicted in the Southern
District of Texas for conspiring (§ 37 of the Criminal
Code) with one Naranjo, of San Antonioi Texas, and with
one Mendoza, of Laredo, Te:as, about January 1st, 1919,
to hire and retain Foster Averitt, a citizen of the United
States, to go to Mexico, there to enlist in military forces
organized in the interest of Felix Diaz, then in revolt
against the Government of Mexico. with which the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

States was at peace, in violation of § 10 of the Criminal
Code, as amended May 7, 1917, (40 Stat. 39, c. 11).
Gayon was arrested in New York, and, after a full
hearing before a Commissioner of the United States, was
held subject to the order of the District Court for his removal to Texas.
Thereupon, by petition for writs of habeas corpus and
certiorari, the case was removed to the District Court for
the Southern District of New York, and, upon a hearing on
a transcript of the evidence before the Commissioner, that
court discharged the writ of habeas corpus and entered an
order that a warrant issue for the removal of the appellant to Texas. An appeal brings this order here for review.
The principles and practice applicable to this case are
abundantly settled: Greene v. Henkel, 183 U. S. 249, 261;
Beaters v. Haubert, 198 U. S. 77; Hyde v. Shine, 199 U. S.
62, 84; Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U. S. 20; Haas v. Henkel, 216
U. S. 462, 475; Price v. Henkel, 216 U. S. 488, 490; Hyde v.
United States, 225 U. S. 347; Brown v. Elliott, 225 U. S. 392;
Henry v. Henkel, 235 U. S. 219.
Of many errors assigned only two are aFgued, viz: That
the court erred in holding: (1) That the acts committed by
the appellant "of which there was any evidence before the
Commissioner" constituted a crime under § 10 of the
Penal Code, and (2) that the evidence before the Commissioner showed probable cause for believing the defendant guilty of the crime charged in the indictment.
By these assignments of error the correct rule of decision is recognized, that if there was before the Commissioner or District Court evidence showing probable cause
for believing the defendant guilty of having conspired with
Naranjo or Mendoza, when either was in the Southerh
District of Texas, to hire or retain Averitt to go to Mexico
to enlist in the insurgent forces operating under General
Diaz "against the Mexican Government, the order of the
District Court must be affirmed.

GAYON v. McCARTHY.
171.

Opinion of the Court.

The evidence before the Commissioner, carried to the
District Court, may be summarized as follows:
The Government introduced the indictment and, with
the admission by Gayon that he was the person named
therein, rested. This established a primafacie case in the
absence of other evidence. Tinsley v Treat, 205 U. S. 20,
31, and cases cited.
Thereupon the testimony of the accused and of one Del
Villar was introduced by appellant, and that of Averitt
by the Government, which we condense into narrative
form:
For five years before the arrest, Del Villar, a political
exile froin Mexico, had maintained offices in New York,
from which he had conducted a systematic propaganda in
the interest of Felix Diaz and against the Mexican Government.
The accused, Gayon, is a Mexican citizen, and during
several administrations prior to that of Carranza had
served as consul for the Mexican Government at Roma,
Texas, and at other places within and without the United
States. For about two yeas he had been secretary to Del
Villar and for some time prior to his arrest was in the
joint service and pay of Del Villar and General Aurelio
Blanquet, the latter then in Mexico serving with the
forces of Diaz.
Naranjo was editor and publisher of a newspaper at San
Antonio, Texas, called "Revista Mexicana" (Mexican
Review), which was opposed to the established Mexican
Government and favorable to the revolutionists operating
in the interest of Diaz.
On December 12, 1918, Gayon wrote from New York to
Naranjo at San Antonio to secure an advertisement in the
Review for "my work 'El General Blanquet,"' saying:
"There are some reasons that you may know in the next
few days why I want a big circulation of the book," asking
if he might send some copies to be sold at the newspaper

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

office, and concluding, "I will await your letters hoping to
give you good news in my next letter."
On December 23, 1918, Gayon wrote Naranjo, addressing him as "My dear Friend," and saying that he had
received his letter of the 18th instant. In this letter a
discussion of the sale of his book "El General Blanquet"
is followed by comment on the activities of other persons,
in which he discourages new projects and urges joining
"with the National Union Committees," which he states
had already passed the embryonic state and now constitute a reality. He concludes:" God grant us, now that we
are on the threshold of success, we may leave aside our
obstinate custom of projecting, and go ahead to produce
results exclusively."
On January 14, and again on January 21, 1919, he
addressed Naranjo as "My dear Friend" and discussed
further advertising and circulating of his book.
This correspondence makes it clear enough that Gayon,
although in New York, in December, 1918, and January,
1919, was in close association with Naranjo, and that the
two were actively engaged in,promoting opposition to the
established Mexican Government.
On January 5, 1919, Foster Averitt, an American citizen, whose home was in Texas, called at the office of
Gayon, and what passed between them is derived from
the testimony of the two, as follows:
Averitt had recently resigned from the United States
Naval Academy at Annapolis and, being without employment, says that he called at the office of Gayon, for the
purpose of securing, if possible, a position in Mexico or
Central America as an engineer. He was wearing his
uniform as midshipman of the United States Navy and he
first showed Gayon some official papers, which the latter
did not read, and then said that he was of the United
States Navy, and that he must go at once to Mexico to see
Generals Diaz and Blanquet personally. He did not give

GAI ON v. McCARTHY.
171.

Opinion of the Court.

any reason for desiring to see these men but asked for

letters of introduction to them, which Gayon refused
until he could confer with Del Villar. Averitt returned the
next day and, after discussing with Gayon conditions in
Mexico, the location of the several armed forces near the
border, 'adwhether he should go by sea to Vera Cruz or
overland, he again left for the day. On returning the next
day he received from Gayon two letters, one addressed to
Naranjo, at San Antonio, and one to "General Aurelio
Blanquet, General Headquarters, Mexico."
Gayon had no knowledge of or acquaintance with
Averitt before his first call at his office and he did not
present any letters of introduction, but in the letter to
Naranjo, Gayon introduced him as "undertaking a trip
to Mexico on special mission to Generals Felix Diaz and
Aurelio Blanquet," and requested that he "supply him
the necessary information to enable him to make his trip
as quickly as possible."
The letter which he gave to Averitt addressed to General Blanquet opens with this paragraph:
"The bearer, Mr. Foster Averitt, Marine Guard of the
United States, will inform you about the reasons for. his3
trip and of the work we are undertaking here. I kindlr
request from you, ,fter meeting Mr. Foster [sic], to be,
good enough to introduce him to General Felix Diaz, as h,,
wants to take up some matters with both of you."
The remainder of the letter explains how he had given
publicity to "the recent successful arrival" of the General
in Mexico and the motives inspiring the movement of
reorganization under the leadership of General Diaz. It
predicts early recognition by our Government of th3
beltigerency of the Diaz insurgents and urges the General
to write as often as possible to enable "us to continue our
campaign of propaganda."
Supplied with these letters, Averitt straightway went to
San Antonio and presented his letter to Naranjo who,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

after some conferences with him, gave him a letter to
General Santiago Mendoza, at Laredo, on the border.
This letter was presented to Mendoza and through him
arrangements were made for Averitt's crossing into
Mexico with two or three others, but they were arrested
by customs guards and the proceedings we are considering
followed.
In the interviews in New York there was suggestion of
payment of expenses and a commission for Averitt, but
Gayon, saying that the furnishing of either would violate
the neutrality laws of the United States, told him there
would be no difficulty in his getting a commission from
General Blanquet on his arrival in Mexico and the last
thing he said to him when leaving was "that he expected
that he should be at least a Colonel when he saw him again
down there." He told him it might be possible to have his
expenses made up to him when he arrived in Mexico, and,
as a matter of fact, he received $15 from General Mendoza
at Laredo.
The statute which Gayon is charged with violating
provides that "whoever, within the territory or jurisdiction of the United States . . . hires or retains
another . . . to go beyond the limits or jurisdiction
of the United States with intent to be enlisted . . . in
the service of any foreign . . . people" shall be
punished as provided. And the overt acts charged in the
indictment are; that Gayon delivered to Averitt at New
York a letter addressed to Naranjo, and at the same time
gave him instructions with respect to presenting it and
impliedly promised Averitt that upon his arrival in Mexico
he would be given a commission in the army of General
Blanquet; that at the same time he delivered to Averitt a
letter addressed to General Blanquet, who was then in
Mexico in command of revolutionary forces; that Averitt
visited and held conferences with Naranjo who gave him a
letter to Mendoza, at Laredo, in the Southern District of

GAYON v. McCARTHY.
171.

Opinion of the Court.

Texas; and that Averitt, under instructions received from
Naranjo, called upon and conferred with Mendoza at
Laredo and with him arranged to enter Mexico with
others, with intent to join the forces of Diaz under General
Blanquet.
While the narration of what took place between Gayon
and Averitt does not show a hiring of the latter in the
ordinary sense of the word, yet, when taken with the conduct of Averitt in going immediately to Texas, and in
attempting to cross into Mexico, plainly, it tends to show
that Gayon retained Averitt in the sense of engaging him
to go'to Mexico, that he was induced to enter into that
engagement by the promise that he would be given a commission in the forces of Diaz when he arrived there and
that he would probably be reimbursed for his expenses.
-There was also evidence tending to show that by communication and concerted action between Gayon, Naxanjo
and Mendoza, Averitt was induced to go from New York
to the border and would have succeeded in reaching
Mexico and joining the insurgent forces but for the vigilance of the United States officers who arrested him. The
evidence also is that Mendoza conferred with Averitt and
acted in promotion of the conspiracy when in the Southern
District of Texas, thus establishing the jurisdiction of the
court to which the indictment was returned, under Hyde
v. United States, 225 U. S. 347, and Brown v. Elliott, 225
U. S. 392.
The word "retain" is used in the statute as an alternative to "hire" and means something different from the
usual employment with payment in money. One may be
retained, in the sense of engaged, to render a service as
effectively by a verbal as by a written promise, by a prospect for advancement or payment in the future as by the
immediate payment of cash. As stated long ago by a
noted Attorney General, in an opinion dealing with this
statute:

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Syllabus.

252 U. S.

"A party may be retained by verbal promise, or by
invitation, for a declared or known purpose. If such a
statute could be evaded or set at naught by elaborate
contrivances to engage without enlisting, to retain without hiring, to invite without recruiting, . . . it would
be idle to pass acts of Congress for the punishment of this
or any other offence." 7 Ops. Atty. Gen. 367, 378, 379.
This discussion of the record makes it sufficiently clear
that there was substantial evidence before the Commissioner and the court tending to show that § 10 of the
Criminal Code had been violated and that there was
probable cause for believing the appellant guilty of conspiring: with Naranjo and Mendoza to compass that
violation, as charged in the indictment, and therefore
the order of the District Court must be
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES AT THE RELATION OF KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v.
INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 413. Argued December 10, 1919.-Decided March 8, 1920.
The Valuation Act of March 1, 1913, requires the Interstate Commerce
Conimission to ascertain and report, inter alia, the present cost of
condemnation and damages or of purchase of the lands, rights of way
and terminaLs of carriers in excess of their original cost or'present
value, apart from improvements. Held, that a refusal of the Commission to receive and act upon evidence to this end was not justified by the supposed impossibility of performing the statutory duty

