OCTOBER TERM,. 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

wise they would not have imported that a judgment
rendered exactly as required by the Alabama statute was
not to have the respect due to other judgments of a sister

State.
As the judgment below upheld a statute that was invalid as construed the writ of error was the proper proceeding and the writ of certiorari nmst be dismissed.
Judgment reversed.

STATE

OF' MISSOURI v. HOLLAND,
STATES GAME WARDEN.

UNITED

APPEAL FRO1M THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 609. Argued March 2, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

Protection of its quasi sovereign right to regulate the taking of game
is a sufficient jurisdictional basis, apart from any pecuniary interest,
for a bill by a State to enjoin enforcement of federal regulations
over the subjeqt alleged to be unconstitutional. P. 431.
The Treaty of August 16, 1916, 39 Stat. 1702, with Great Britain,
providing for the protection, by close seasons and in pther ways, of
migratory birds in the United. States and Canada, and binding each.
power to take and propose' to their law-making bodies the necessary
measures for carrying it out, is within the treaty-making power
conferred by Art. II, § 2, of the Constitution; the Act of July 3,
1918, c. 128, 40 Stat. 755, which prohibits the killing, capturing or
selling any of the migratory birds included in the terms of the treaty,
except as permitted by regulations compatible With those terms to
be made by the Secretary of Agriculture, is valid under Art. I, § 8,
of the Constitution, as a necessary and proper means of effectuating
the treaty; and the treaty and statute, by bringing such birds within
the-paramount protection and regulation of the Government dc. .wu0
infringe property rights or sovereign powers, respecting such birds,
reserved to the States by the Tenth Amendment. P. 432.

MISSOURI v. HOLLAND.
416.

Argument for Appellant.

With respect to rights reserved to the States, the treaty-making power
is not limited to what may be done by an unaided act of Congress.
P, 432.
258 Fed. Rep. 479, affirmed.
T)m case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. G. L. Harvey and Mr. John T. Gose, Assistant
Attorney General of the State of Missouri, with whom
Mr. Fiank W. McAllister, Attorney General of the State
of Missouri, was on the brief, for appellant:
If the act of Congress now in question would have
been, unconstitutional when the Constitution and the
first amendments were framed and ratified, it is unconstitutional now. The Constitution itself does not change.
South Carolina v. United States, 199 U. S. 447, 448.
Under the ancient law, the feudal law, and the common
law in England, the absolute control of wild game was a
necessary incident of sovereignty. .When, therefore, the
United Colonies became "Free and Independent States"
with full power to do all "acts and things which Independent States may of right do," the power to control
the taking of wild game passed to the- States. Geer v.
Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519, 523-530; Ward v. Race Horse,
163 U. S. 504.
If it had even been suggested that, although Congress
had no power to control the taking of Wild game within
the borders of any State, yet indirectly by means of a
treaty with some foreign power it could acquire the power
and by this means its long arm could reach into the States
and take food from the tables of their people, who can for
one moment believe that such a constitution would have
been ratified. Wild game and the right of. the people
thereto have always been a "touchy" subject with all
English speaking people. It was of sufficient importance
to be a part of the Magna Chartaand the "Charter of the
Forests." See Parker v. People, 111 Illinois, 581, 647.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

This power of the State over wild game within its
borders, which "cannot be questioned" and "will not
be gainsaid," is derived from the peculiar nature of such
property and its common ownership by all the citizens
of the State in their collective sovereign capacity. The
State in its sovereign capacity is the representative of the
people in their common ownership, and holds it in trust
for the benefit of all its people. Geer v. Connecticut, supra,
529, 530; McCready v. Virginia, 94 U. S. 391; Martin v.
Waddell, 16 Pet. 410; United States v. Shauver, 214 Fed.
Rep. 154; United States v. McCullagh, 221 Fed. Rep.
288, 294; Rupert v. United States, 181 Fed. Rep. 87, 90;
Magner v. People, 97 Illinois, 320, 333; Gentile v. State,
29 Indiana, 409, 417; Ex parte Maier, 103 Cilifornia, 476,
483; Chambers v. Church, 14 R. I. 398, 400; Manchester v.
Massachusetts, 139 U. S. 240; Patsone v. Pennsylvania,
232 U. S. 138; Abby Dodge v. United States, 223 U. S.
166; Smith v. Maryland, 18 How. 71; Carey v. South
Dakota, 250 U. S. 118; Sils v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31;
In re Deininger, 108 Fed. Rep. 623; Heim v. McCall, 239
U. S. 175.
But the power of the State is not dependent upon the
authority which the State derives from common ownership and the trust for the benefit of the people; it is a
necessary incident of the power of police--an attribute
of sovereignty. State v. Heger, 194 Missouri, 707.
If a source of food supply is not within the exclusive
control of a State under its power of police, is there anything which is? If Congress by means of a treaty can tell
the people of a State when and under what conditions
they may take wild game which they own in their collective
sovereign capacity, and in and over which, while .within
the borders of the State, neither Congress nor any foreign
nation can have, either under national or international
law (see Behring Sea Arbitration, 32 Amer. Law Reg.
901), any property rights or any power of control, then

MISSOURI v. HOLLAND.
416.

Argument for Appellant.

the Tenth Amendment with its powers "reserved" tothe States respectively or to the people, is a delusion, and
they are States in name only, and our government a very
different government from that presupposed and intended
by the people who ratified the Constitution. Passenger
Cases, 7 How. 474.
Upon the authority and principles of the cases above
cited it has been held that the Act of Congress, approved
March 4, 1913, was unconstitutional. The fact that the
present act purports to give effect to a treaty cannot
validate it. Every treaty must be presumed to be
made subject to the rightful powers of the governments
concerned, and neither the treaty-making power alone,
nor the treaty-making power in conjunction with any or
all other departments of the Government, can bind the
Gov'ernment to do that which the Constitution forbids.
Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258, 267; People v. Gerke, 5
California, 381, 382 et seq.; George v. Pierce, 148 N. Y. S.
230, 237; Compagnie v. Board, 51 La. Ann. 645, 662;
affd. 186 U. S. 380; Cantini v. Tillman, 54 Fed. Rep.
969; Loan Association v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655, 662, 663;
Cherokee Tobacco Case, 11 Wall. 616; Siemessen v. Bofer, 6
Cal. Rep. 250; People v. Naglee, 1 California, 246, 247;
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 80; Murphy v. Ramsay,
114 U. S. 15, 44; Head Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580; Jones
v. Meehan, 175 U. S. 132; Fong Yue Ting v. United States,
149 U. S. 698; Seneca Nation v. Christie, 126 N. Y. 122;
Fort Leavenworth v. Lowe, 114 U. S. 525; Pierce v. State,
13 N. H. 576; Martin v. Hunter's Lessee, 1 Wheat. 304,
326; Mormon Church v. United States, 136 U. S. 1; The
Federalist, Nos. 33, 45; Works of Calhoun, vol. I,
203, 204, 249, 250, 252, 253; Tucker, Const., vol. II, 725,
726; Butler, Treaty Making Power, vol. I, 64; vol. II,
350, 352; Story, Const., § 1508; Duer, Lectures on Constitutional Jurisprudence of the United States, 2d ed.,
228; Cooley, Const. Law, 117; Van Holst, Const. Law,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

202; Thayer, Cases on Const. Law, vol. I, 373; Senator
Rayner, 59th Cong., 41 Cong. Rec., pt. 1, 299; Cocke's
Constitutional History, 235; Jefferson, Manual of Parliamentary Practice, 110, note 3; Elliot's Debates, vol.
II, 504, 507; Cooley, Const. Lim., 7th ed., 11; Hamilton's
Works, vol. IV, 324.
In the consideration of the questions involving the
powers of the federal and sta.( governments there exists
the temptation to lodge all sovereign or governmental
power in either the United States or the States. This disposition is evidenced by the erroneous statement that
there exist in this country dual sovereignties. Cf. 8 Ops.
Atty. Gen. 411-415. The power reserved to the people
is overlooked. Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 90. The
Federal Government is a government not only of enumerated powers, but it is also a government to which certain powers are denied. Powers denied are not to be
implied: they are to be obtained, if at all, from, and in the
manner provided by, those who originally granted the
enumerated powers, but who at the same time denied
other powers-the people. Barron v. Baltimore, 7 Pet.
243, 247; Kansas v. Colorado, supra; United States v.
Shauver, 214 Fed. Rep. 154, 156; Holden v. Joy, 17 Wall.
243; United States v. Rhodes, 1 Abb. U. S. Rep. 43; Fed.
Cases, 16151; Fairbank v. United States, 181 U. S. 283,
288; Trucker, Const., vol. 1, 371-373.
AmOng the powers so denied are those over purely
internal affairs which "concern the lives, liberties and
proper'ies o? the people and the internal order, improvement andlprosperity of the State," including, as held without exception, the control over wild game. When the
power of the States over their purely internal affairs is
destroyed' the system of government devised by the Constitution is destroyed.
If these reserved powers could be taken over through the
device of treaty making, the President and Senate could

MISSOURI v. HOLLAND.
416.

Argument for Appellant.

control the laws of a State relating to inspection, quarantine, health and internal trade; prescribe the times and
modes of elections; force the introduction and sale of
opium, intoxicating liquors or other substances, however
injurious to the health and well-being of a State; cede to a
foreign power a State or any part of, its territory, and destroy the securities of liberty and property as effectually
as the most despotic government ever formed.
But this is not all. If the treaty-making power is not
within the constitutional limitations relating to the powers reserved to the States, it is not limited by any restriction of the Constitution. The Federal Government itself,
as well as the several States, would be at the mercy of the
President and the Senate. ,They could regulate foreign
'commerce in spite of the f~ct that Congress is expressly
authorized to control it. /They could provide for duty
rates upon articles imported from foreign nations, or
admit them free of duty, although Congress has express
authority to lay and collect taxes and duties. They
could appropriate directly from the public treasury the
public moneys in the face of the express power of Congress
to originate all such appropriations. They could dispose of any part of the territory of the United States,
or any of their property, without the consent of Congress,
which alone has power to dispose of and make rules and
regulations for the property of the United States. In
short, the Federal Government would be a government
of men, and not of laws. The question is not whether or
not they will do these things but whether or not, under our
form of government, they have the power.
If a treaty be "the supreme law of the land," it has
become so by construction, for the Constitution as ratified by the people made the supreme law of the land to
consist of three things: (1) The Constitution; (2) the laws
of the United States which shall be made in pursuance
thereof; (3) all treaties made or which shall be made

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

under the authority of the United States. The powers
reserved to the States respectively or to the people are,
under this Constitution, as sacred as the power to make
treaties. Are they not even more so since they are the
object of specific reservation and necessarily limit or
restrict the general grant of power made to the treatymaking department of the government? .Hamilton's
Works, vol. IV, 342; Cooley, The Forum, June, 1893,
p. 397; Von Hoist, Const. Law of United States, 202;
Duer, Lectures on Constitutional Jurisprudence of the
United States,. 2d ed., 228; Tucker, Lim. Treaty-Making
Power, 128, 129, 135-136, 139, 93-94, 86-87; Judge
Shackleford Miller, quoted in Tucker, Lim. TreatyMaking Power, 21, 22.
The United States existed under the Articles of
Confederation and the purpose was to include treaties
made under that authority as well as those which .should
be made under the Constitution. The "authority of the
United States" .under the Articles of .Confederation and
under the Constitution was an authority derived from
enumerated powers accompanied by specific reservations,
and under both the Articles of Confederation and the
Constitution .certain rights of the States respectively
and the people were jealously guarded by express exceptions. There was and could be no "authority of the
United States" outside of and beyond that given by the
Articles of Confederation and the Constitution.
That a treaty stands upon an equal footing with a law
of the United 'States is settled. Cherokee Tobacco Case,
1 Wall. 616;. Ward v. Rare Horse, 163 U. S. 504.
The term "treaty" must undoubtedly be given a
broad meaning, and generally speaking' it may be said
that by this clause there is conferred the power to make
treaties on those matters ordinarily the subject of treaties
between sovereign powers. But, in the very nature of
things, there must be a limit, else that power would de-

MISSOURI v. HOLLAND.
418.

Argument for Appellant.

stroy many of the other provisions of the Constitution.
Such meaning must be given each part of the Constitution
as will not interfT3re with the meaning of the other parts,
in order that effect may be given to the whole.
The cases usually cited by those who advocate the supremacy of a treaty do not in any instance hold that the
reserved powers of a State or a trust which the State holds
for the benefit of all its people are subject to and may be
annulled by a treaty having for its subject the regulation
of a matter which is reserved to the States respectively or
to the people by the Tenth Amendment. Ware v. Hylton,
3 Dall. 199; Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259; Geofroy v.
Riggs, 133 U. S. 266 (cf. Fox v. United States, 94 U. S.
320); Orr v. Hodgson, 4 Wheat. 453; Fairfax v. Hunter,
7 Cranch, 603; People v. Gerke, 5 California, 381, 384 (cf.
Tucker, Address before Georgia Bar Association, June 2,
1917, p. 23; Lim. on Treaty-Making Power, c. 6, pp. 143
et seq.); Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S. 483; 22 Ops.
Atty. Gen. 215.
In the making of the Constitution a negative, in any
form, upon laws passed by the States in the exercise of
their reserved powers was defeated, though persistently
urged, in some form, by some of the ablest men in the Constitutional Convention. It, was universally admitted
that under the Constitution as it stood the Federal Government had no such power, and by the first ten amendments the people undertook to forestall any attempt on the
part of the Federal Government to obtain such power by
construction. Works of Calhoun, 246, 247, 249, 250.
Treaties are not to be given a sanctity which shields
them from inspection and rejection, if, by their terms they
do that which the Constitution forbids, and destroy essential rights of the States or the people. Downes v.
Bidwell, 182 U. S. 244, 344; Compagnie v. Board, 186 U. S.
380, 395; Heim v. McCall, 239 U. S. 175, 194.
The High Contracting Powers nust be held to have

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellee.

252 U. S.

known that the power of the Federal Government did not
extend to the taking over of a trust exercised by the State
in relation of the common property of its citizens, or the
enactment of mere police regulations within the limits of a
State; and the language of Article VIII seems to indicate
that they both had acted upon this knowledge. Such
construction leaves both the treaty and the laws of Missouri intact. It results in holding unconstitutional only
an act of Congress which was not necessarily required by
the treaty, and which, under the Constitution, Congress
had no power to pass.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Frierson for appellee:
A migratory bird law of this kind 'is sustained,
apart
from treaty, by the power to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the property belonging
to the United States (Art. IV, § 3), and by the poweri to
regulate commerce between the States.
The Constitution expressly grants to Congress the power
to enact such laws as may be necessary to give effect to
treaties. Art. I, § 8; Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U. S. 678;
United States v. Jin Fuey Moy, 241 U. S. 394; Chinese
Exclusion Case, 130 U. S. 581.
Whenever a treaty operates of itself, it is to be regarded
in the courts as equivalent to an act of Congress. But if
it is only promissory, it is then clearly within the province
of Congress to enact legislation necessary to put it into
effect. Foster v. Neilson, 2 Pet. 253, 314, United States v.
43 Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188, 196.
The power of Congress to legislate to make treaties
effective is not limited to the subjects with respect to
which it is empowered to legislate in purely domestic
affairs.
There are many national questions affecting alone this
Government or the people of the United States with which

MISSOURI v. HOLLAND.
416.

Argument for Appellee.

it deals. With respect to this class the line of demarcation
between the powers of the state governments and those
of the Federal Government is clearly marked by the Constitution' But when we come to deal with national questions affecting the interests of other countries as well as
our own, we confront a different situation. At home, we
are citizens of dual sovereignties, each supreme within
its own sphere. But, in our intercourse with foreign nations, we are one people and one nation. In our relations
to foreign countries and their subjects or citizens, our
Federal Government is one Government and is invested
with the powers which belong to independent nations and
which the several States -would possess, if separate nations, and the exercise of these powers can be invoked
for the maintenance of independence and security throughout the entire country. Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat.
264, 413; Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457, 555; Chinese Exclusion Case, 130 U. S. 581, 604.
In exercising the treaty-making power, the Federal
Government acts for the entire American people, whether
we regard them as citizens of the United States or as
citizens of the several States, and likewise for every State.
As said by this court in Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S.
483, 490: "If the National Government has not the power
to do what is done by such treaties, it cannot be done at
all, for the States are expressly forbidden to 'enter into
any treaty, alliance, or confederation."'
Since the power was expressly granted to Congress to
enact legislation necessary and proper to put into execution a treaty, the validity of such legislation cannot depend upon whether its subject-matter is included within
the general legislative powers of Congress. Rather, it depends upon whether the treaty which is being enforced
is within the treaty-making power of the United States.
In re Ross, 140 U. S. 453, 463.
By the Constitution the complete and unrestricted

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellee.

252 U. S.

treaty-making power possessed by the States is expressly
granted to the United States to be exercised by thePresident and Senate. The exercise of such power is expressly
prohibited to the States. Therefore, except as restrained
by prohibitions contained in other clauses of the Constitution, the entire treaty-making power of the States was
vested in the United States when that instrument was
adopted in 1788.
Amendment X (thereafter adopted) reserves to the
States or the people all powers not granted to the United
States nor prohibited to the States. As the treaty powers
had been both granted to the United States and prohibited to the States, they were expressly excepted from
the reservations of the Tenth Amendment, and it is wholly
irrelevant. A treaty made by th .- treaty-making power
does not derogate from the power of any State. It is an
exercise of the treaty-making power of such State in conjunction with the like powers of all of the States by their
common government-the agency they appointed in
adopting the Constitution.
It is undoubtedly true that, generally, matters of a
purely local nature are reserved for the legislative power
of the States. But just what these reserved powers are
depends upon the extent to which powers, either expressly
or by necessary implication, are conferred upon the Federal
Government. The police powers are those most generally regarded as having been reserved to the States.
But, if the full exertion of any power conferred upon the
Federal Government requires the exercise of police powers
within the States, such powers may be exercised to the
extent necessary, although they may involve an interference with what would otherwise lie exclusively within
the province of the State. United States v. Thompson,
258 Fed. Rep. 257, 264. That the police or other powers
of the States cannot be interposed as an obstacle to the
exertion of these federal powers to make and enforce

MISSOPRI v. HOLLAND.
416.

Argument for Appellee.

treaties has been too often decided to now admit of doubt.
Wildenhus's Case, 120 U. S. 1, 17; Ware v. Hylton,
3 Dall. 199; Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259, 276; Geofroy
v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258, 266; Hopkirk v. Bell, 3 Cranch,
454; United States v. 43 Gallons of Whiskey, 93 U. S. 188;
S. 371.
United States v. Winans, 198 U.
It is inconceivable that, since the States were to be
denied the treaty-making power, the framers of the Constitution intended that the treaty-making power conferred
upon the new Government should be less than that possessed by any other independent government and less than
that 'possessed by the State conferring it. The very
general language used in conferring the power negatives
such an intention. What was conferred was obviously
that power to negotiate treaties which is essential if
there is to be intercourse between nations.
Again, those representing the States in the Constitutidnal Convention understood too well the necessity for
the exercise of such a power to have been willing to deprive the States of the ample power that they had unless,
at least, as full power was to be vested in some other
agency.
It must be remembered that every power which was
conferred upon the Federal Government was taken from
those powers which the State had the right to exercise,
and it would seem impossible to construe the two provisions of the Constitution, above referred to, as accomplishing anything short of the transfer of all the treatymaking power which the several States had to the new
Federal Government. Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U. S. 678,
682, 683.
Before the adoption of the Constitution it cannot be
doubted that each State could not only enact such laws
as it deened necessary for the protection of game within
its borders, but could, likewise, enter into a treaty with
any other State or foreign country for the protection of

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellee.

252 U. S.

migratory game which remained within its borders only a
portion of the year. After the adoption of the Constitution, however, as said in Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S.
519, 528, this power remained in the States only "in so
far as its exercise may be not incompatible with, or restrained by, the rights conveyed to the Federal Government by the Constitution." But if the protection of
migratory game is a proper subject-matter for treaties
between independent nations, the power to secure this
protection was expressly conferred upon the Federal Government as a part of the treaty-making power.
The peculiar nature of its property in migratory game,
which is in one country during a part of the year and in
another during the remainder of the year, makes it impossible for the laws of one'State )r one country to give
ample protection. This can be accomplished only by concert of action on the part of two or more States or countries. This, in the very nature of things, cannot be secured except through the medium of treaties.
The treaty-making power applies to all matters which
may properly be the subject of negotiations between the
two governments. 'Calhoun, 4 Elliot's Debates, 464;
Story, Const., 5th ed., § 1508; Ware v. Hylton, 3 Dall.
199, 235; Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258, 266; In re Ross,
140 U. S. 453, 463.
The protection of migratory game is a proper subject
of negotiations and treaties between the governments
of the countries interested in such game. Van Valkenburgh, J., in the court below, 258 Fed. Rep. 479, 484;
United States v. Rockefeller, 260 Fed. Rep. 346-348.
It may be that, while migratory birds are within a
State, that State, as trustee for its people, has the same
title to them that it has to birds which remain permanently within its borders. But, when the birds return to
Canada, that government has exactly the same title that
the State has when they are in the United States. More-

MISSOURI v. HOLLAND.
416.

Argument 6f amici curize.

over, while the birds are in Canada, the State to which
they customarily migrate is still interested in them, be,cause, when they return, its title again attaches. Manifestly, then, the States of the United States are as much
interested in the preservation of these birds while in
Canada as while in the United States. But for the protection of these migratory birds while they are in a foreign country, each State is powerless. While in the
one case, therefore, it resorts to its own legislative
power, in the other it must have resort to an exercise of
power by the agent which it has agreed shall 'ct for
it in negotiating and making treaties with foreign governments.
Mr. RichardJ. Hopkins, Attorney General of the State
of Kansas, and Mr. Samuel W. Moore, by leave of court,
filed a brief as amici curiz, in behalf of the State of Kansas:
Every State possesses the absolute right to deal as it
may see fit with property held by it either as proprietor or
ib its sovereign capacity as a representative of the people,
and this right is paramount to the federal legislative or
treaty-making power.
The constitutional limitation prohibiting a State without the consent of Congress from entering into any agreement or compact with any State or with a foreign power
prohibits "the formation of any combination tending tb
the increase of political power in the States which ma(
encroach upon or interfere with the just supremacy cf
the United States." It has no application to agreements
or compacts which a State may make in the control ani
regulation of its own property or property rights.
Congress' lack of legislative power to divest a State
of its property right and control over the wild game withiia
its borders cannot be supplied by making a treaty wita
Great Britain.
The treaty-making power of the National Government

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

is so limited by other provisions of the Constitution, inchiding the Tenth Amendment, that it cannot divest a
State of its police power or of its ownership or control of
its wild game.
The courts have never upheld a treaty whose subjectmatter extended beyond the constitutional domain of
congressional legislation.
The treaty in this case does not, by its terms, purport
to create a closed season between December 31st and
March 10th. Its executory agreement to pass future
legislation covering this period is not the supreme law
of the land and cannot have the effect of giving validity
to an unconstitutional act.
Mr. Louis Marshall, by leave of court, filed a -brief as
amicus curim, in behalf of the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks:
Irrespective of whether migratory birds may be considered property belonging to the United States and regardless of the. sanction of the treaty-making power, the
Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as was its precursor the Act
of March 4, 1913, c. 145, 37 Stat. 847, is valid as an enactment of "needful rules and regulations" respecting the
national forests and other parts of the public domain,
which constitute "property belonging to the United
States," within the meaning of paragraph 2, § 3 of Article
IV of the Constitution.
The fact that the States are trustees of animals ferce
nature within their boundaries, does not prevent the
United States from preserving such animals for the purpose of protecting its property.
MR. JusTxcE HOLMES delivered the-opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity brought by the State of Missouri
to prevent a game warden of the United States from
attempting to enforce the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of

MISSOURI v. HOLLAND.
416.

Opinion of the Court.

July 3, 1918, c. 128, 40 Stat. 755, and the regulations made
by the Secretary of Agriculture in pursuance of the same.'
The ground of the bill is that the statute is an unconstitutional interference with the rights reserved to the States
by the Tenth Amendment, and that the acts of the
defendant done and threatened under that authority invade the sovereign right of the State and contravene its
will manifested in statutes. The State also alleges a
pecuniary interest, as owner of the wild birds within its
borders and otherwise, admitted by the Government to be
sufficient, but it is enough that the bill is a reasonable and
proper means to, assert the alleged quasi sovereign rights
of a State. Kansas v. Colorado, 185 U. S. 125, 142.
Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237.
Marshall Dental Manufacturing Co. v. Iowa, 226 U. S.
460, 462. A motion to dismiss was sustained by the District Court on the ground that the act of Congress is
constitutional. 258 Fed. Rep. 479. Acc. United States v.
Thompson, 258 Fed. Rep. 257; United States v'. Rockefeller,
260 Fed. Rep. 346. The State appeals.
On December 8, 1916, a treaty between the United
States and Great Britain was proclaimed by the President.
It recited that many species of birds in their annual migrations traversed certain parts of the United States and of
Canada, that they were of great value as a source of food
and in destroying insects injurious to vegetation, but were
in danger of extermination through lack of adequate protection. It therefore provided for specified close seasons
and protection in other forms, and agreed that the two
powers would take or propose to their law-making bodies the
necessary measures for carrying the treaty out. 39 Stat.
1702. The above mentioned Act of July 3, 1918, entitled
an act to give effect to the. convention, prohibited the
killing, capturing or selling any of the migratory birds
included in the terms of the treaty except as permitted by
regulations compatible with those terms, to be made by

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

the Secretary of Agriculture. Regulations were proclaimed on July 31, and October 25, 1918. 40 Stat. 1812;
1863. It is unnecessary to go into any details, because, as
we have said, the question raised is the general one whether
the treaty and statute are void as an interference with the
rights reserved to the States.
To answer this question it is not enough to refer to the
Tenth Amendment, reserving .the powers not delegated to
the United States, because by Article II, § 2, the power to
make treaties is delegated expressly, and by Article VI
treaties made under the authority of the United States,
along with the Constitution and laws of the United States
made in pursuance thereof, are declared the supreme law
of the land. If the treaty is valid there can be nb dispute
about the validity of the statute under Article I, § 8,
as a necessary and proper-means to execute the powers of
the Government. The language of the Constitution as to
the supremacy of treaties being general, the question before us .v narrowed to an inquiry into the ground upon
which t-i, present supposed exception is placed.
It is said that a treaty cannot be valid if it infringes the
Constitution, that there are limits, therefore, to the treatymaking power, and that one such limit is that what an act
of Congress could not do unaided, in derogation of the
powers reserved to the States, a treaty cannot do. An
earlier act of Congress that attempted by itself and not in
pursuance of a treaty to regulate the killing of migratory
birds within the States had been held bad in the District
Court. United States v. Shauver, 214 Fed. Rep. 154.
United States v. McCullagh, 221 Fed. Rep. 288. Those
decisions were supported by arguments that migratory
birds were owned by the States in their sovereign capacity
for the benefit of their people, and that under cases like
Geer v. Connecticut, 161 U. S. 519, this control was one
that Congress had no power to displace. The same argument is supposed to apply now with equal force.

MISSOURI v. HOLLAND.
416.

Opinion of the Court.

Whether the two cases cited were decided rightly or not
they cannot be accepted as a test of the treaty power.
Acts of Congress axe the supreme law of the land only
whep made in pursuance of the Constitution, while treaties
are declared to be so when made under the authority of
the United States. It is open to question whether the
authority of the United States means more than the
formal acts prescribed to make the convention. iWe do not
mean to imply that there are no qualifications to the
treaty-making power; but they must be ascertained in a
different way. It is obvious that there may be matters of
the sharpest exigency for the national well being that an
act of Congress could not deal with but that a treaty
followed by such an act could, and it is not lightly to be
assumed that, in matters requiring national action, "a
power which must belong to and somewhere reside in
every civilized government" is not to be found. Andrews
v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14, 33. What was said in that case
with regard to the powers of the States applies with equal
force to the powers of the nation in cases where the States
individually are incompetent to act. We are not yet discussing the particular case before us but only are considering the validity of the test proposed. With regard to
that we may add that when we are dealing with words that
also are a constituent act, like the Constitution of the
United States, we must realize that they have called into
life a being the development of which could not have been
foreseen completely by the most gifted of its begetters.
It was enough for them to realize or to hope that they had
created an organism; it has taken a century and has cost
their successors much sweat and blood to prove that they
created a nation. The case before us must be considered
in the light of our whole experience and not merely in that
of what was said a hundred years ago. The treaty in
question does not contravene any prohibitory words to be
found, in the Constitution. The only question is whether

OC'OBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

it is forbidden by some invisible radiation from the general
terms of the Tenth Amendment. We must consider what
this country has become in deciding what that Amendment has reserved.
The State as we have intimated founds its claim of
exclusive authority upon an assertion of title to migratory
birds, an assertion that is embodied in statute. No doubt
it is true that as between a State and its inhabitants the
State may regulate the killing and sale of such birds, but
it does not follow that its authority is exclusive of paramount powers. To put the claim of the State upon title is
to lean upon a slender reed. Wild birds are not in the
possession of anyone; and possession is the beginning of
ownership. The whole foundation of the State's rights is
the presence within their jurisdiction of birds that yesterday had not arrived, tomorrow may be in another State
and in a week a thousand miles away. If we are to be
accurate we carot put the case of the State upon higher
ground than that the treaty deals with creatures that for
the moment arm within the state borders, that it must be
carried out by officers of the United States within the same
territory, and that but for the treaty the State would be
free to regulate this subject itself.
As most of the laws of the United States are carried out
within the States and as many of them deal with matters
which in the silence of such laws the State might regulate,
such general grounds are not enough to support Missouri's claim. Valid treaties of course "are as binding
within the territorial limits of the States as they are elsewhere throughout the dominion of the United States."
Baldwin v. Franks, 120 U. S. 678, 683. No doubt the
great body of private relations usually fall within the control of the State, but a treaty may override its power. We
do not have to invoke the later developments of constitutional law for this proposition; it was recognized as early
as Hopkirk v. Bell, 3 Cranch, 454, with regard to statutes

MISSOURI v. HOLLAND.
416.

Dissent.

of limitation, and even earlier, as to confiscation, in Ware
v. Hylton, 3 Dall. 199. It was assumed by Chief Justice
Marshall with regard to the escheat of land to the State
in Chirac v. Chirac, 2 Wheat. 259, 275. Hauenstein v.
Lynham, 100 U. S. 483.

Geofroy v. Riggs, 133 U. S. 258.

Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333, 340. So as to a limited
jurisdiction of foreign consuls within a State. Wildenhus's
Case, 120 U. S. 1. See Ross v. McIntyre, 140 U. S. 453.
Further illustration seems unnecessary, and it only remains to consider the application of established rules to
the present case.
Here a national interest of very nearly the first magnitude is involved. It can be protected only by national
action in concert with that of another power. The subjectmatter is only triansitorily within the State and has no
permanent habitat therein. But for the treaty and the
statute there soon might be no birds for any powers to
deal with. We see nothing in the Constitution that coTnpels the Government to sit by while a food supply is cut
off and the protectors of our forests and our crops are
destroyed. It is not sufficient to rely upon the States'
The reliance is vain, and were it otherwise, the question is
whether the United States is forbidden to act. We are of
opinion that the treaty and statute must be upheld.
Carey v. South Dakota, 250 U. S. 118.
Decree affirmed.
Mn. JusTIcE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

