OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Counsel for Parties.

BLUMENSTOCK

BROTHERS

252 U. S.

ADVERTISING

AGENCY v. CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 197.

Submitted January 26, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

Jurisdiction based on diverse citizenship cannot be maintained in the
District Court, over defendant's objection, in a district where neither
party resides. P. 440.
To confer jurisdiction on the District Court over an action for triple
damages under § 7 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, a claim under
the statute, plainly real and substantial, must be set up by the averments. Id.
A business conducted by an advertising agency of placing, by contracts
with publishers, advertisements for manufacturers and merchants,
in magazines which are published and distributed throughout the
United States. is not interstate commerce, although the circulation
and distribution of the publications themselves be such; and a declaration claiming triple damages for injury alleged to have resulted
from refusal of a publisher to accept such advertisements from such
an agency pursuant to an attempt of the publisher to monopolize
the business of publishing such advertising matter, fails to state
a claim or cause of action of the substantial character requisite
to confer jurisdiction on the District Court under the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act. P. 441. International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217
U. S. 91, distinguished.
Affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Colin C. H. Fyffe for plaintiff in error. Mr. Paul
N. Dale and Mr. David R. Clarke were on the brief.

Mr. Amos C. Miller for defendant in error. Mr. Sidney S. Gorham, Mr. Henry W. Wales and Mr. Gilbert
Noxon were on the brief.

BLUMENSTOCK BROS. v. CURTIS PUB. CO. 437
436.
MR.

Opinion of the Court.

JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the Blumenstock Brothers
Advertising Agency against the Curtis Publishing Company in the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois to recover treble damages
under §7 of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. 26 Stat. 209.
The case here concerns the question of the jurisdiction of
the District Court. Judicial Code, §238. The plaintiff
is a corporation of the State of Missouri, the defendant a
corporation of the State of Pennsylvania. The defendant
appeared specially in the District Court and moved to
dismiss the complaint for want of jurisdiction, the grounds
stated being:
1. "That in each of the counts of plaintiff's original
declaration, and in the additional couit thereof, it appears that the plaintiff is a citizen and resident of the State
of Missouri, and that this defendant is a citizen and resident of the State of Pennsylvania."
2. "That in none of said counts is a cause of action
stated by plaintiff within the provisions of the Act of
Congress approved July 2nd, 1890, entitled, 'An Act to
protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints
and monopolies."'
The court entered judgment dismissing the suit for
want of jurisdiction over the defendant or the action.
The record contains a certificate stating that the court
found that it had no jurisdiction of the defendant and
no jurisdiction to entertain the action. The certificate
further states, that the question involved is whether the
transaction set forth in the several counts of the declaration involves a question of interstate commerce, and
whether the averments in said several counts of the
declaration state a cause of action within the provisions
of the Act of July 2, 1890.
The declaration is voluminous, containing five counts

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

and an additional count. So far as it is necessary for our
purpose the cause of action of the plaintiff may be said
to rest upon the allegations: That the plaintiff is engaged
at Chicago in conducting an advertising agency. That
when customers or principals desire to place advertiser
ments in the magazines and periodicals of the trade they
make plaintiff their agent, and plaintiff contracts with
the defendant and other publishers and distributors of
magazines; that plaintiff had many customers for whom
it placed advertisements in the periodicals published and
distribuited by the defendant and in other periodicals of
other publishers, all of which were distributed throughout
the United States and the several States thereof; that the
defendant was the owner and publisher of three periodicals sold and distributed throughout the United States
known as "The Saturday Evening Post," "The Ladies
Home Journal," and "The Country Gentleman;" that
the business of the defendant in publishing, selling and
distributing said periodicals was interstate commerce.
The character of each of the several publications is described, and a large circulation is attributed to each of
them; and it is stated that in publishing and distributing
said periodicals defendant held itself out as desirous of
taking, receiving, printing, publishing, and distributing
throughout the United States its publications and advertisements to persons, firms and corporations concerning
their business and occupation; that in the course of the
business, the defendant dealt with the plaintiff and other
advertising agencies; -that the defendant in the regular
course of its business dealt with not only advertisers, but
with advertising agencies such as the plaintiff, and it is
alleged that such dealings were transactions of interstate
commerce, and that the business of editing, publishing
and distributing throughout the United States the advertising matter contained in said publications, pursuant
to contracts made with its customers and advertising

BLUMENSTOCK BROS. v. CURTIS PUB. CO. 439
438.

Opinion of the Court.

agencies, was interstate commerce; that such commerce
is dependent for its operation and growth upon advertising facilities offered by magazines and periodicals such
as those of the defendant, and that such publications
constitute the chief method of presenting to the buying
public the articles held out for sale; that the advertising
facilities were necessary to dealers, merchants, and manufacturers in order to bring their products to the notice
and attention of purchasers; that-the defendant's periodicals, particularly "The Saturday Evening Post," have
an important position among such publications, and
are largely read throughout the United States; that "The
Saturday Evening Post" is the most necessary of such
advertising mediums to the customers of the plaintiff;
that the defendant's periodicals, together with certain
other magazines, periodicals and publications owned by
persons other than the defendant, had, to a certain extent, exclusive control of a certain field of advertising;
that the magazines and other publications which control
and do all the advertising business of the field in question
are few in number; that for the advertising .of goods and
merchandise offered for sale in commerce there were no
adequate -facilities except those offered by the defendant
and other publishers of similar magazines; that the defendant was desirous of using its preponderant position
in this special field of advertising as a means of acquiring
for itself and its publications, especially for" The Saturday
Evening Post," a monopoly of the publi ation and distribution of, advertising matter in this restricted field of
advertising throughout the United States in violation of
the Anti-Trust Act; that the defendant refused without
any reasonable cause to accept proper and ordinary advertising matter or copy offered in the usual way to the
defendant by the plaintiff and other advertising agencies
unless the plaintiff, and other advertising agencies, would
agree to allow the defendant to increase its preponder-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

ance in said advertising field by permitting it to control
and limit and reduce, at the will of the defendant, the
amount of advertising given by the plaintiff and other
advertising agencies to the owners and publishers of other
magazines, journals, periodicals and other publications
aforesaid, which were competing with the defendant in
the field of advertising mentioned and described; that by
reason of the illegal and wrongful acts, done by the defendant in pursuance of its attempt and scheme to create
a monopoly for its own benefit in, and to monopolize the
advertising business, plaintiff lost the business of its customers for whom it had been acting as agent in placing of
advertisements with defendant's and other publications,
and was prevented from making further contracts for the
placing of advertising matter in*publications of the defendant, and in consequence thereof, in any other publication of a like or similar character, to the damnage of
the plaintiff in the sum of $25,000.
The declaration contains an alleged cause of action at
common law, but as neither the plaintiff nor the defendant
reside in the district in which the suit was brought, it is
conceded that such cause of action could not be maintained in that court against the defendant's objection.
Section 51, Judicial Code.
The Sherman Anti-Trust Act (§ 7) created a cause of
action in favor of anyperson to recover by suit in any
District Court of the United States, in the district in
which the defendant resides or is found, three-fold damages for injury to his business or property by reason of
anything forbidden and declared unlawful in the act. In
order to maintain a suit under this act the complaint
must state a substantial case arising thereunder. The
action is wholly statutory, and can only be
brought in a
District Court of the United States, and it is essential to
the jurisdiction of the court in such cases that a substantial
cause of action within the statute be set up.

BLUMENSTOCK BROS. v. CURTIS PUB. CO. 441
436.

Opinion of the Court.

In some cases it is difficult to determine whether a
ruling dismissing the complaint involves the merits of the
cause of action attempted to be pleaded or only a question
of the jurisdiction of the court. In any case alleged to
come within the federal jurisdiction it is not enough to
allege that questions of a federal character arise in the
case, it must plainly appear that the averments attempting to bring the case within federal jurisdiction are real
and substantial. Newburyport Water Co. v. Newburyport,
193 U.. S. 561, 576.
In cases where, as here, the controversy concerns a
subject-matter limited by federal law, for which -recovery
can be had only in the federal courts, the jurisdiction
attaches only when the suit presents a substantial claim
under an act of Congress. This rule has been applied in
bankruptcy cases (Grant Shoe Co. v. Laird Co., 212 U. S.
445;) in copyright cases (Globe Newspaper Co. v. Walker,
210 U. S. 356;) in patent cases (Healy v. Sea Gull Specialty
Co., 237 U. S.479;) in admiralty cases (The Jefferson,
215 U. S. 130).
We come then to inquire whether the cause of action
stated was a substantial one within §7 of the Sherman
Anti-Trust Act. It is not contended that any combination, conspiracy, or contracpt in restraint of trade is alleged
such as would bring the case within the first section ofthe act. The second section is relied upon which in ternis
punishes persons who mqnopolize or attempt to Monopolize, or combine with others to monopolize, any part of
trade or commerce among the several States or with
foreign nations.
The Anti-Trust Act, it is hardly necessary to say, derives its authority from the power of Ctngress to regulate
commerce among the States. It declares unlawful combinations, conspiracies, and contracts and attempts to
monopolize which concern such trade or cozmmerce. It
follows that if the dealings with the defendant, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1919..
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

form the subject-matter of complaint, were not transactions of interstate commerce, the declaration states no
case within the terms of the act.
Commerce, as defined in the often quoted definition of
Chief Justice Marshall, in Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1,
189, is not traffic alone, it is intercourse, "It describes
the commercial intercourse between nations, and parts of
nations, in all its branches, and is regulated by prescribing rules for carrying on that intercourse."
In the present case, treating the allegations of the complaint as true, the subject-matter dealt with was the
making of contracts for the insertion of advertising matter
in certain periodicals belonging to the defendant. It
may be conceded that the circulation and distribution of
such publications throughout the country would amount
to interstate commerce, but the circulation of these periodicals did not depend upon or have any direct relation
to the advertising contracts which the plaintiff offered
and the defendant refused to, receive except upon the
terms stated in the .declaration. The advertising contracts did not involve any movement of goods or merchandise in interstate commerce, or any transmission of
intelligence in such commerce.
This case is wholly unlike International Textbook Co.
. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, wherein there was a continuous
interstate traffic in textbooks and apparatus for a course
of study pursued by means of correspondence, and the
movements in interstate commerce were held to bring the
subject-matter within the domain of federal control, and
to exempt it from the burden imposed by state legislation. This case is more nearly analogous to such cases as
Ficklen v. Shelby County Taxing District, 145 U. S. 1,
wherein this court held that a broker engaged in negotiating sales between residents of Tennessee and non-resident
merchants of goods situated in another State, was not
engaged in interstate commerce; and within that line of

BLUMENSTOCK BROS. v. CURTIS PUB. CO. 443
436.

Opinion of the Court.

cases in which we have held that policies of insurance are

not articles of commerce, and that the making of such
contracts is a mere incident of commercial intercourse.
Paul v. Virginia, 8 Wall. 168; Hooper v. California, 155
U. S. 648; New York Life Ins. Co. v. Deer Lodge County,
231 U. S. 495. We held in Hopkins v. United States, 171
U. S.579, that the buying and selling of livestock in the
stockyards of a city by members of the stock exchange

was not interstate commerce, although most of the livestock was sent from other States. In Williams v. Fears,.
179 U. S. 270, we held that labor agents engaged within
the State of Georgia in hiring persons to be employed
outside the State were not engaged in interstate 6ommerce.
In Ware & Leland v. Mobile County 209 U. S.405, we held
that brokers taking orders and transmitting them to
other States for the purchase and sale of grain or cotton
upon speculation were not engaged in interstate commerce;
that such contracts for sale or purchase did not necessarily result in any movement of commodities in interstate traffic, and the contracts were not, therefore, the
subjects of interstate commerce. In the recent case of
United States Fidelity & Guaranty Co. v. Kentucky, 231
U. S.394, we held that a tax upon a corporation engaged
in the business of inquiring into and reporting upon the
credit and standing of persons in the State, was not unconstitutional as a burder upon interstate commerce as
applied to a non-resident engaged in selecting and distributing a list of guaranteed attorneys in the United
States, and having a representative in the State. The
contention in'that case, which this court denied, was that
the service iendered through the representativesin Kentucky, and other representatives of the same kind acting
as agents of merchants engaged-in interstate commerce,
to furnish them with information through the 'mails, or
by telegraph, or telephone, as a result of which merchandise might be transported in interstate commerce,

444

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

252 U. S.

Syllabus.

-

or withheld from such transportation, according to the
character of the information reported, was so connected
with interstate commerce as to preclude the State of
Kentucky from imposing a privilege tax upon such business.
. Applying the principles of these cases, it is abundantly
established that there is no ground for claiming that the
transactions which are the basis of the present suit, concerning advertising in journals to be subsequently distributed in interstate commerce, are contracts. which
directly affect such commerce. Their incidental relation
thereto cannot lay the groundwork for such contentions
as are undertaken to be here maintained under § 7 of the
Sherman Anti-Trust Act. The court was right in dismissing the suit.

Aftwmd.

ASKREN, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF NEW MEXICO, ET AL. v. CONTINENTAL
OIL COMPANY.
SAME v. SINCLAIR REFINING COMPANY.
SAME

v. THE

TEXAS

COMPANY.

APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO.
Nos. 521-523.

Argued January 5, 6, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

A law of New Mexico defining "distributors" of gasoline as those who
sell it from tank cars, receiving tanks or stations, or in or from tanks,

barrels or packages not purchased from a licensed distributor, and
"retail dealers" as those other than distributors who sell it in
quantities of 50 gallons or less, lays an annual license tax of $50.00

