PENNSYLVANIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
553.

Syllabus.

"A construction of the constitutional limitation [the one
we are considering] which would apply it to such a case as
this would strike down a large body of laws which have
existed in all the states from the foundation of the government, making some discrimination between residents
and non-residents in legal proceedings and other matters."
The laws of Minnesota gave to the non-resident respondent free access to its courts, for the purpose of enforcing any right which he may have had, for a year,as long a time as was given him for that purpose by the
laws under which he chose to live and work-and having
neglected to avail himself of that law, he may not successfully complain because his expired right to maintain suit
elsewhere is not revived for his benefit by the laws of the
State to which he went for the sole purpose of prosecuting
his suit. The privilege extended to him for enforcing
his claim Was reasonably sufficient and adequate and the
statute is a valid law.
It results that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals must be reversed and that of the District Court

affirmed.
Reversed.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA v. STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
STATE OF OHIO v. STATE OF WEST VIRGINIA.
IN EQUITY.

Nos. 23 and 24, Original. Motions for appointment of special master, of
commissioner and to consolidate submitted February 2, .1920,-Order
.entered April 19, 1920.
Order Consolidating Causes for the Purpose of Taking Testimony, Desigaing Times for Taking Testimony and Appointing Commissioner.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Order.

252 U. S.

ON CONSIDERATION of the respective motions of the
complainants for the appointment of a Special Master
and of the defendant for the appointment of a Commissioner to take the testimony and report the same to
the Court and of the motions to consolidate the cases for
the purpose of taking such testimony,
IT IS NOW HERE ORDERED

that the motions to consoli-

date the cases for the purpose of taking the proofs be,
and the same are hereby, granted.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Mr. Levi Cooke, of the
District of Columbia, be, and he is hereby, appointed a
Commissioner to take and return the testimony in these
causes, with the powers of a Master in Chancery, as
provided in the rules of this Court; but said Commissioner
shall not make any findings of fact or state any conclusions of law.
IT is FU'THER ORDERED that the complainants shall
take their evidence, at such place or places as they may
indicate, between the first day of May, 1920, and the
first day of October, 1920, upon giv'ing ten days' notice
of the time and place of taking such evidence to the counsel
for the defendant; that the defendant may take evidence,
at such place or places as it may indicate, between the
first day of October, 1920, and the first day of March,
1921, upon giving ten days' notice of the time and place
of taking such evidence to the counsel for the complainants; that the complainants shall take their evidence in
rebuttal between the first day of March, 1921, and the
first day of April, 1921, at such place or places as they
may indicate, upon giving ten days' notice to counsel for
defendant, and the defendant shall then conclude the
taking of its evidence in surrebuttal on or before the first
day of May, 1921, upon giving ten days' notice of the
time and place of taking such evidence to the counsel for
complainants. Provided, however, that ift complainants
shall conclude the taking of their evidence in chief before.

PENNSYLVANIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
563.

Order.

the first day of October, 1920, and shall give notice thereof,
that time for the taking of evidence in chief on the part
of defendant shall begin to run fifteen days after the giving of said notice by the complainants; and if the defendant shall conclude the taking of its evidence before
the first day of March, 1921, and shall give notice thereof,
the thirty-one days' time for the taking of evidence in
rebuttal on behalf of the complainants shall begin to run
fifteen days after the giving of said notice by the defendant; and the thirty days' time for the taking of evidence on behalf of defendant in surrebuttal shall begin to
run from the termination of said thirty days' allowed for
the taking of the evidence in rebuttal by the complainants; but nothing in this proviso contained shall operate
or be construed to postpone the ultimate dates for the
commencement of the time for the taking of the defendant's evidence in chief, the complainants' evidence
in rebuttal and the defendant's evidence in surrebuttal,
respectively, first above specified.
.IT is FURTHER ORDERED

that the said complainants

and the defendant, respectively, shall make such deposits with the Clerk of this Court for fees, costs and
expenses of the said Clerk and of the said Commissioner
as they may from time to time be requested by said Clerk.

