HOUSTON. v. ORMES.
Argument for Appellants.

HOUSTON, SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY,
ET AL. v. ORMES, ADMINISTRATOR OF LOCK-

WOOD.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 86. Argued January 23, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.
Where a fund has been appropriated by Congress for payment to a
specified person in satisfaction of a finding of the Court of Claims,
the duty of the Treasury officials to pay it over is ministerial; and a
suit by one who has an equitable right in the fund, for attorney's
fees, to establish such right as against the owner, and to require the
Treasury officials-to pay the fund to a receiver, is not a suit against
the United States, and may be maintained in the courts of the District of Columbia if the owner, as well as the officials, is made a party
and bound by the decree so that it may afford due acquittance to
the Government. P. 472.
The situs of the debt in such cases is not material, if its owner voluntarily appears and answers without objecting to the jurisdiction.
P. 474.
Section 3477 of the Revised Statutes does not prevent assignment
by operation of law after a claim has been allowed. P. 473.
47 App. D. C. 364, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Morgan Beach
and Mr. A. F. Myers were on the brief, for appellants:
The test whether or not a suit is one against the United
States or against an officer as an individual depends upon
the nature of the decree to be entered. If the decree
would control the action of the officer outside the scope
of his authority, the interest of the Government would
not be involved and the suit would be one against the
individual. PhiladelphiaCompany v. Stimson, 223 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellants.

252 U. S.

605, 620. But if the decree would control the action of
the officer within the scope of his authority, or interfere
with the United States in the use of its property or performance of its functions, the suit would be one against
the United States. Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S. 335, 337..
In the case at bar it is sought to enjoin these government officers from dischargifig an official duty devolved
upon them by statute. The payment of the fund in question to the defendant Sanders is a ministerial duty, the
performance of which could be compelled by mandamus.
Parish v. MacVeagh, 214 U. S. 124. This conclusively
establishes the character of the suit as one to control the
official action of the appellants.
Moreover, the suit is an attempt to control the property
of the United States in the hands of these officials. That
this cannot be done is made clear by B lknap v. Schild,
161 U. S. 10. See also Goldberg v. Daniels, 221 U. S. 218.
If high officials of the Government, acting wholly
within the scope of their authority, may be sued in proceedings of this kind, officials of the Treasury Department will be subject to be sued by creditors of the successful claimant whenever an appropriation is made in
satisfaction of a claim against the United States, and will
bd greatly hampered in the discharge of their official
duties. This would be contrary to public policy. Morgan v. Rust, 100 Georgia, 346, and cases cited.
Debts due from the United States have no situs at the
seat of Government. This has been many times decided.
The appropriation, which is made payable "out of
any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,"
segregates no special fund from the general funds of the
Government. The situation simply is that there is a debt
due from the Government to a resident of Vinita, Okla.,
and this debt, it is contended, has no situs in the District
of Columbia which would warrant a proceeding by publication. Vaughan v. Northup, 15 Pet. 1; Wyman v. Hal-

HOUSTON v. ORMES.
469.

Opinion of the Court.

stead, 109 U. S. 654; Mackey v. Coxe, 18 How. 100; Borcherling v. United States, 35 Ct. Cims. 311, affd. 185 U. S.
223.
Miss Mary O'Toole for appellee.
Mr. Chapman W. Maupin, by leave of court, filed a
brief as amicus curim.
MA.JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a suit in equity, brought by the late Belva A.
Lockwood in her lifetime in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, to establish an equitable lien for attorney's fees upon a fund of $1,200 in the Treasury of the
United States, appropriated by Congress (Act of March 4,
1915, c. 140, 38 Stat. 962, 981) to pay a claim found by the
Court of Claims to be due to one Susan Sanders, who was
made defendant together with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Treasurer of the United State. There were
appropriate prayers for relief by injunction and the appointment of a receiver. Defendant Sanders voluntarily
appeared and answered denying her indebtedness to plaintiff; the other defendants answered admitting the existence
of the fund and declaring that as a matter of comity and
out of deference to the court it would be retained under
their control to await the final disposition of the case; but
objecting to the jurisdiction of the court over the cause
upon the ground that debts due from the United States
have no situs in the District of Columbia, that there was
nothg to show that either the United States or the
defendant Sanders had elected to make the sum alleged to
be due from the United States payable to her in the District, and that in the absence of personal service upon her
the court could imake no decree that would protect the
United States. There was a final decree adjudging that

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

the sum of $90 was due from the defendant Sanders to Mrs.
Lockwood, with costs, and appointing a receiver to collect
and receive from the Secretary of the Treasury the $1,200
appropriated in favor of Sanders, directing the Secretary to
pay the latter sum to the receiver, and decreeing that his
receipt should be a full acquittance to the United States
for any and all claims and demands of the parties arising
out of or connected with said claim. The Secretary of the
Treasury and the Treasurer appealed to the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, the defendant
Sanders not appealing. That court affirmed the decree,
47 App. D. C. 364; and a further appeal taken by the
officials of the Treasury under ยง 250, Judicial Code, brings
the case here.
The principal contention is that because the object
of the suit and the effect of the decree were to control the
action of the appellants in the performance of their official
duties the suit was in effect one against the United States.
But since the fund in question has been appropriated by
act of Congress for.payment to a specified person in
satisfaction of a finding of the Court of Claims, it is clear
that the officials of the Treasury are charged with the
ministerial duty to make payment on demand to the
person designated. It is settled that in such a case a suit
brought by the person entitled to the performance of the
duty against the official charged with its performance is
not a suit against the Government. So it has been declared by this court in many cases relating to state officers.
Board of Liquidation v. McComb, 92 U. S. 531, 541;
Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S.711, 727; In re Ayers, 123
U. S.443, 506. In Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373,
386, while holding that a suit against officers of the
United States might be in effect a suit against the United
States, the court said (p. 386): "Of course, this statement
has no reference to and does not include those cases in
which officers of the United States are sued, in appropriate

HOUSTON v. ORMES.
489.

Opinion of the Court.

form, to compel them to perform some ministerial duty
imposed upon them by law, and which they wrongfully
neglect or refuse to perform. Such suits would not be
deemed suits against the United States within the rule
that the Government cannot be sued except by its consent,
nor within the rule established in the Ayers case." And in
Parishv. MacVeagh, 214 U. S.124, the court upheld the
right of a claimant, in whose favor an appropriation had
been made by Congress, to have a mandamus against the
Secretary of the Treasury requiring him to pay the claim.
To the same effect, Roberts v. United States, 176 U. S.221,
231.
In the present case it is conceded, and properly conceded, that payment of the fund in question to the defendant Sanders is a ministerial duty, the performance of
which could be compelled by mandamus. But from this
it is a necessary consequence that one who has an equitable
right in the fund as against Sanders may have relief
against the officials of the Treasury through a mandatory
writ of injunction, or a receivership which is its equivalent,
making Sanders a party so as to bind her and so that the
decree may afford a proper acquittance to the Government. The practice of bringing suits inequity for this
purpose is well established in the courts of the District
(Sanborn v. Maxwell, 18 App. D. C. 245; Roberts v. Consaul, 24 App. D. C. 551, 562; Jones v. Rutherford, 26 App.
D. C. 114; Parishv. McGowan, 39 App. D. C. 184; s. c. on
appeal, McGowan v. Parish, 237 U. S. 285, 295). Confined, as it necessarily must be, to cases where the officials
of the Government have only a ministerial duty to perform, and one in which the party complainant has a
particular interest, the practice is a convenient one, well
supported by both principle and precedent.
Section 3477, Rev. Stats., regulating the assignment of
claims against the United States, is not an obstacle. As has
been held many times, the object of Congress in this legis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

lation was to protect the Government, not the claimant;
and it does not stand in the way of giving effect to an assignment by operation of law after the claim has been
allowed. Erwin v. United States, 97 U. S. 392, 397; Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556, 560; Price v. Forrest, 173
U. S. 410, 423-425.
In support of the contention that a court of equity may
not control the action of an officer of the United States
within the scope of his a9uthority, Wells v. Roper, 246 U. S.
335, is cited; but it is not in point; the official duty sought
to be subjected to control in that case was not ministerial
but required an exercise of official discretion, as the opinion shows (p. 338).
It is further objected that debts due from the United
States have no situs at the seat of Government, and
Vaughan v. Northup, 15 Pet. 1, 6; Mackey v. Coxe, 18 How.
100, 105; Wyman v. Ilalstead,109 U. S. 654, 657, are cited.
But in the present case the question of situs is not material.
If the jurisdiction as to the defendant Sanders had depended upon publication of process against her as a nonresident under ยง 105 of the District Code (Act of March
3, 1901, c. 854, 31 Stat. 1189, 1206), upon the theory that
her claim against the Government was "property within
the District," the point would require consideration. But
the jurisdiction over her rests upon her having voluntarily
appeared and answered
the bill without objection. Hence
there is no question that the decree binds her, and so
constitutes a good acquittance to tfie United States as
against her.
The decree will be

Affirmed.

