OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S,

ful, be resorted to as an aid to construction. Caminettiv.
United States, 242 U. S. 470, 490. But no aid could possibly be derived from the legislative history of another act

passed nearly six years after the one in question.. Further
answer to the argument based on the legislative history of
the later act would, therefore, be inappropriate.

We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals.

It is

Affirmed.

ESTATE OF P. D. BECKWITH, INC. v. COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 178. Argued January 23, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.
The Trade-Mark Registration Act declares (§ 5) that no mark by
which the goods of the owner may be distinguished from other
goods of the same class shall be refused registration on account of
the nature of such mark, with certain exceptions, and with the proviso that no mark shall be registered which consists merely in words
or devices which are descriptive of the goods with which they-are
used, or of the character or quality of such goods. Held, that a
mark consisting of a fanciful design in combination with certain
words forming part of it was not debarred from registration by reason
of the fact that some of the words-"Moistair Heating System"were desciiptive; that to require the deletion of such descriptive
words because of their descriptive quality as a condition to registration of the mark, was erroneous; and that the act would be fully
complied with if registration were permitted with an appropriate
declaration on the part of the applicant disclaiming any right to the
exclusive use of the descriptive words except in the setting and relation in which they appeared in the drawing, descr .'tionand samples
filed with the application. P. 543.
While there is no specific provision for disclaimers in the statute, the
practice of using them is approved. P. 545.

BECKWITH v. COMMR. OF PATENTS.
538.

Opinion of the Court.

The statute should be construed liberally, in fulillment of its purpose,
to promote the domestic and foreign trade of the country. P. 545.
48 App. D. C. 110, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harry C. Howard for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Davis, for respondent,
submitted. Mr. Edward G. Curtis, Special' Assistant to

the Attorney General, was on the brief.
MR. JUSTICE. CLARKm delivered the opinion of the court.

The petitioner, a corporation, filed an application in
the Patent Office for the registration of a trade-mark,
which is described as follows:
"A design like a seal, comprising the head of an Indian
chief surmounting a scroll bearing his name, 'Doe-WahJack,' and surrounded by a circle, outside of which appear the words 'Round Oak' and 4 Moistair Heating
System' in a circle, and the whole being surrounded by
a wreath of oak leaves."
It will be useful to reproduce the drawing filed with
this application:

It was averred that the petitioner had used the mark
for more than eighteen months before the application

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

was made by applying it to "Hot air and combined hot
air and hot water heaters and furnaces . . . by hav-.
ing the same cast into the metal of which the systems
are constructed."
The Commissioner found that the mark did not conflict with any other that was registered, and that the
petitioner was entitled to the exclusive use of it excepting the words "Moistair Heating System." It was
ordered that the mark might be registered if the excepted
words, objectionable because descriptive, were "erased "
or "removed " from it, but that the filing of a disclaimer
would not suffice to secure registration.
Not satisfied with this result, the petitioner appealed
to the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, and
its judgment affirming the decision of the Commissioner
of Patents is before us for review.
The ground of both decisions is that the words "Moistair Heating System " aie merely descriptive of a claimed
merit of the petitioner's system-that in the process
of heating, moisture, is added to the air-and that one
person may not lawfully monopolize the use of words
in general use which might be used with equal truthfulness to describe another system of heating. For this reason it was held that the case falls within the proviso of
the Registration Act of 1905, declaring that no mark consisting merely in words or devices which are descriptive
of the goods with which they are used or of the character
or quality of such goods shall be registered under the
terms of the act. (Act of February 20, 1905, c. 592, § 5,
33 Stat. 725, amended January 8, 1913, c. 7, 37 Stat. 649.)
No question of patent right or of unfair competition,
or that the design of the trade-mark is so simple as to
be a mere device or contrivance to evade the law and
secure the registration of non-registrable words, is involved. Nairn Linoleum Co. v. Ringwalt Linoleum Works,
46 App. D. C. 64, 69.

BECKWITH v. COMMR. OF PATENTS.
538.

Opinion of the Court.

This statement makes it apparent that the question
presented for decision is: Whether the applicant may
lawfully register the words "Moistair Heating System"
when combined with the words "Round Oak," as a part
of its purely fanciful and arbitrary trade-mark design,
as shown in the drawing filed, and when claim to exclusive
use of the words apart from the mark shown in the drawing is disclaimed on the record?
An account of the process of decision, in the Patent
Office and in the Court of Appeals, by which the result
-inthis case was arrived at, as it appears in the brief of
the Commissioner of Patents, is suggestive and useful.
From this we learn that when a mark has been presented
for registration consisting merely (only) of descriptive
words or devices, registration has been uniformly refused.
When "composite" marks-such as contain both registrable and non-registrable matter-have been presented
for registry with features in them which conflicted with
earlier marks, registered by other than the applicant,
the complete rejection, "eradication,' of the conflicting
portions has been uniformly required before registry was
allowed. But where there was no such conflict, and the
only objection was that descriptive words were used, the
practice of the Patent Office prior to the decision, in 1909,
of Johnson v. Brandau, 32 App. D. C. 348, was to permit
the registration of marks containing such words, where
they were associated with registrable words or were a
part of an arbitrary or fanciful design or device, it being
considered not necessary to delete the descriptive matter,
even when it was an essential part of the composite trademark as it had been used by the applicant, provided it
was clearly not susceptible of exclusive appropriation
under the general rules of law. After the decision of
Johnson v. Brandau, 32 App. D. C. 348, a practice grew
up in the Patent Office, not provided for in the statute,
of allowing an applicant to disclaim objectionable de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

scriltive words in cases where to require their actual
removal would result in so changing the mark that it
would not readily be recognized as that shown in the
drawing or specimen filed with the application. The
customary form of such disclaimer was a statement filed
that no claim was made to the designated words, as for
example, "Moistair Heating System," apart from the
mark shown in the drawing-this was interpreted as
meaning that only when taken in connection with the
remaining features of the mark did the applicant make
claim to their exclusive use. Ex parte Illinois Seed Co.,,
219 0. G. 931.
Such disclaimer became a part of the applicant's
statement in the record and necessarily formed a part
of the certificate of registration as it would appear in the
copies of it furnished to the applicant and the public,
pursuant to § 11 of the act.
Then came the decisions in Fihbeck Soap Co. v. Kleeno
Manufacturing Co., 44 App. D. C. 6, and Nairn Linoleum
Co. v. Ringwatt Linoleum Works, 46 App. D. C. 64, which,
says the Commissioner of Patents, were understood as
disapproving the practice of disclaimer, and since they
were rendered, registration of merely descriptive matter
has not been allowed in any form, but its actual deletion
from the trade-mark drawing has been required,-with,
however, an apparent exception in the case of Rhynsburger, 8 T. M. Rep. 467; 128 MS. Dec. 141. The judgment we are considering requiring, as it does, the
"elimination " of the descriptive words, shows that the
Commissioner correctly interpreted these two decisions
of the Court of Appeals. -,
It is apparent from this rehearsal that the Commissioner
of Patents has promptly and cordially accepted for his
guidance the decisions of the Court of Appeals and, although he, avoids a controversial attitude in his brief
aria gives a colorless history of the practice of his office,

BECKWITH v. COMMR. OF PATENTS.

538.

Opinion of the Court.

still it is manifest that, in this-case and in others, the
court has very radically changed that practice with respect
to permitting registry of composite trade-marks and that
its decisions have turned upon the construction of the
second proviso, referred to, in the fifth section of the
Registration Act, which is made the basis of the judgment
we are reviewing.
The Registration Act of 1905 (33 Stat. 724), amended
in 1906 (34 Stat. 168) and in 1909 (35 Stat. 627) and in
1913 (37 Stat. 649), without chanin the substantive
law of trade-marks, provided, in the manner prescribed,
for the registration of marks, (subject to special exceptions) which, without the statute, would be entitled to
legal and equitable protection, and the case before us
calls chiefly for the construction of the provisions of § 5
of that act, which, so far as here involved, are as follows:
"That no mark by which the goods of the owner of the
mark may be distinguished from other goods of the same
class shall be refused registration as a trade-mark on account of the nature of such mark unless, etc.
"Proided, That no mark which consists . . . merely
in words or devices which are descriptive of the goods
with which they are used, or of the character or quality
of such goods . . . shall be registered under the terms
of this Act."
It was settled long prior to the Trade-Mark Registration Act that the law would not secure to any person the
exclusive use of a trade-mark consisting merely of words
descriptive of the qualities, ingredients or characteristics of an article of trade. This for the reason that the
function of a trade-mark is to point distinctively, either
by its own meaning or by association, to the origin or
ownership of the wares to which it is applied, and words
merely descriptive of qualities, ingredients or characteristics, when used alone, do not do this. Other like goods,
equal to them in all respects, may be manufactured or-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

dealt in by others, who, with equal truth, may use, and
must be left free to use, the same language of description
in placing their goods before the public. Canal Co. v.
Clark, 13 Wall. 311, 322, 323, 324; Manufacturing Co. v.
Trainer, 101 U. S. 51, 54; Manhattan Medicine Co. v.
Wood, 108 U. S. 218, 222; Goodyear's India Rubber Glove
Mfg. Co. v. Goodyear Rubber Co., 128 U. S. 598; Lawrence
Mfg. Co. v. Tennessee Mfg. Co., 138 U. S. 537, 547; Brown
Chemical Co. v. Meyer, 139 U. S. 540; Elgin National
Watch Co. v. Illinois Watch Case Co., 179 U. S. 665; Standard PaintCo. v. TrinidadAsphalt Mfg. Co., 220 U. S. 446.
Thus the proviso quoted, being simply an expression
in statutory form of the prior general rule of law that
words merely descriptive are not a proper subject for
exclusive trade-mark appropriation, if the application in
this case had been to register only the words "Moistair
Heating System" plainly it would have fallen within the
terms of the prohibition, for they are merely descriptive
of a claimed property or quality of the petitioner's heating system,-that by it moisture is imparted to the air in
the process of heating. But the application was not to
register these descriptive words" merely," alone and apart
from the mark shown in the drawing, but in a described
manner of association with other words, "Round Oak,"
which are not descriptive of any quality of applicant's
heating system, and as a definitely positioned part of an
entirely fanciful and arbitrary design or seal, to which the
Commissioner found the applicant had the exclusive
right.
Since the proviso prohibits the registration not of
merely descriptive words but of a trade-mark "which
consists

.

.

. merely"

(only) of such words-the

distinction is substantial and plain-we thini it sufficiently clear that such a composite mark as we have
here does not fall within its terms. In this connection it
must be noted that the requirement of the ptatute that

BECKWITH v. COMMR. OF PATENTS.

538.

Opinion of the Court.

no trade-mark shall be refused registration, except in
designated cases, is just as imperative as the prohibition
of the proviso against registration in cases specified.
While there is no specific provision for disclaimers in
the 'trade-mark statute, the practice of using them is
commended to our judgment by the statement of the
Commissioner of Patents that, so far as known, no harm
came to the public from the practice of distinguishing,
without deleting, non-registrable matter in the drawing
of the mark as registered, when a statement, forming a
part of the record, was required that the applicant was
not making claim to an exclusive appropriation of such
matter except in the precise relation and association in
which
it appeared in the drawing and description.
It seems
obvious that no one could be deceived as
to
the scope of such a mark, and that the registrant would
be precluded by his disclaimer from setting up in the future
any exclusive right to the disclaimed part of it. It seems
obvious also that to require the deletion of descriptive
words must result often in so changing the trade-mark
sought to be registered from the form in which it had been
used in actual trade that it would not be recognized as
the same mark as that shown in 'the drawing, which the
statute requires to be ified with the application, or in the
specimens produced as actually used, and therefore registration would lose much, if not all, of its value. The
required omission might so change the mark that in an
infringement suit it could be successfully urged that the
registered mark had not been used,-and user is the
foundation of registry (§ 2). Of this last the case before
,us furnishes an excellent example. To strike out "Moistair
Heating System" from the applicant's trade-mark would
so change its appearance that its value must be largely
lost as designating to prior purchasers or users the origin
of the heating system to wich it was applied.
The commercial impression of a trade-mark is derived

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

from it as a whole, not from its elements separated and
considered in detail. For this reason it should be considered in its entirety (Johnson v. Brandau, supra) and
to strike out any considerable part of it, certainly any
conspicuous part of it, would be to greatly affect its
value. Of course, refusal to register a mark does not
prevent a former user from continuing its use, but it deprives him of the benefits of the statute, and this should
not be done if it can be avoided by fair, even liberal,
construction of the act, designed as it is to promote the
domestic and foreign trade of our country.
Thus the case comes to this: That the Commissioner
found that the trade-mark presented for registration did
not conflict with any theretofore registered and there is
no suggestion of unfair practice in the past or contemplated in the future; that it had been used for eighteen
months in the form proposed for registry; that the words
ordered to be stricken out from the drawing are descriptive but the mark does not consist "merely" in such
words, but is a composite of them with others, and with
an arbitrary design which, without these words, both the
Commissioner and the court found to be registrable; that
the language of the statute that no mark not within its
prohibitions or provisos shall be denied registration is
just as imperative as the prohibitory words of the proviso; and, very certainly, that a disclaimer on the part
of applicant that no claim is made to the use of the words
"Moistair Heating System" apart from the mark as
shown in the drawing and as described, would preserve
to all others the right to use these words in the future to
truthfully describe a like property or result of another
system, provided only that they be not used in a trademark which so nearly resembles that of the petitioner
"as to be likely to cause confusion or mistake in the mind
of the public or to deceive purchasers" when applied "to
merchandise of the same descriptive properties" (§ 5).

SIMPSON v. UNITED STATES.
538.

Syllabus.

Such being the ultimate facts of this controversy, we
cannot doubt that the Court of Appeals fell into error in
ruling that the words "Moistair Heating System" must be
"eliminated" from the trade-mark of the applicant as it
had been theretofore used, and that the requirement of
the act of Congress for the registration of trade-marks
would be fully complied with if registration of it were
permitted with an appropriate declaration on*the part of
the applicant that no claim is made to the right to the
exclusive use of the descriptive words except in the Setting
and relation in which they appear in the drawing, description and samples of the trade-mark filed with the
application.

It results that the judgment of the Court of Appeals
must be

Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS dissents.

SIMPSON, SURVIVING EXECUTOR OF MOORE, v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF 'CLAIMS.
No. 213. Argued March 17, 18, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.
In computing succession taxes payable under the War Revenue Act
of 1898, upon legacies of the net income for life from funds placed
with trustees for investment and reinvestment, it was lawful for the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue to assess the legacies by means of
general tables based on approved mortuary tables and on four per
cent.. a the assumed value of money. P.-550. 30 Stat. 448, §§ 29,
30; Rev. Stats., §§ 321, 3182.
The court takes judicial notice that, at the time when the taxes involved in this ease were collected, four per cent. was very generally

