OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

252 U. S.

sole authority of the state court, and was disposed of, as
the Supreme Court of Colorado held, by the former cases
reported in 33 Colorado, and by our decision based upon
that construction in Londoner v. Denver, 210 U. S., supra.

AS the plaintiffs in error had an opportunity to be heard
before the board duly constituted by §300, they cannot
be heard to complain now. It follows that the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Colorado must be
Aflirmed.

GOLDSMITH ET AL. v. GEORGE G. PRENDERGAST CONSTRUCTION COMPANY.
ERROR TOTHE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 127.

Argued January 13, 14, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.

In apportioning the cost of a sewer, the assessing authorities excluded
therefrom a city park from part of which the drainage was naturally

.toward, and was to some extent conducted into, the sewer; but the
amount so conducted was not shown to be considerable, nor did it
appear that such drainage could not be disposed of by other means.
The state courts having sustained the exclusion as within the discretion of the assessing authorities, held, that it could not be regarded
as so arbitrary and unequal in operation and effect as to render
assessments on other property invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 17.
Refusal to transfer a cause from a division of the Supreme Court of
Missouri to the court in banc does not violate any constitutional
right. P. 18.
273 Missouri, 184, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. David Goldsmith for plaintiffs in error:
The failure 4 the m.nicipal authorities to include any
part of the Tower Grove Park property in the sewer

GOLDSMITH v. PRENDERGAST CONSTR. CO.
12.

13

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

district in question, if arbitrary, violated § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. Masters v. Portland,24 Oregon, 161;
Hanscom v. Omaha, 11 Nebraska, 37, 43, 44; Fraser v.
Mulany, 129 Wisconsin, 377; Lawrence v. Grand Rapids,
166 Michigan, 134; Title Guarantee& Trust Co. v. Chicago;
162 Illinois, 505; Van Deventer v. Long Island City, 139
N. Y. 133; Tulsa v. McCormick, 63 Oklahoma,
Whitley v. Fawcett, Style's Rep., 13.
The facts found by the trialr court are sufficient to
establish that such omission was arbitrary. Lawrence v.
Grand Rapids, supra; Mt. St. Mary's Cemetery v. Mullins,
248 U. S. 501.
The conclusions of law upon which the trial court
based its judgment were erroneous because the omission
of the park property from the sewer district warranted a
finding of fact that the members of the Municipal Assembly were actuated by motives which constitute legal
fraud; and because the motives of the Municipal Assembly
were immaterial. Soon Hing v. Crowley, 113 U. S.703;
Brown v. Cape Girardeau,90 Missouri, 377; Kansas City v.
Hyde, 196 Missouri, 498; Kerfoot v. Chicago, 195 Illinois,
229; Potter v. McDowell, 31 Missouri, 62.
The refusal of Division No. 2 of the Supreme Court of
Missouri to transfer this cause to the court in banc was
arbitrary, and violated § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. Amendment to the Constitution of Missouri,
adopted in. 1890, § 4; Moore v. Missouri, 159 U. S.673.
The action of said DivisionNo. 2 was the action of the
State,. within the purview of the Federal Constitution,
and, if arbitrary, violated .§ 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339; Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. .Los Angeles, 227 U. S.278;
Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409; Ex parte Nelson, 251
Missouri, 63.
Moreover, if no federal question had been involved,
the Supreme Court of Missouri would have had no juris-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.

Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

diction of this case. Barber Asphalt Paving Co. v. Hezel,
138 Missouri, 228; Smith v. Westport, 174 Missouri, 394;
Platt v. Parker-WashingtonCo., 235 Missouri, 467.
And if the judgment of the Supreme Court was rendered
without jurisdiction, then that, in itself, constituted a
taking of property without due process of law. Scott v.
McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714;
Lent v. Tilison, 140 U. S. 316; Old Wayne Life Association
v. McDonough, 204 U. S. 8.
Mr. Hickman P. Rodgers, with whom Mr. A. R. Taylor
and Mr. Howard Taylor were on the brief, for defendant
in. error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.

Suit was brought in the Circuit Court of the City of St.
Louis by the Construction Company to recover upon a
special tax-bill issued by'the City of St. Louis for the
construction of the sewer in what is known as Manchester
Road Sewer District No. 3, City of St. Louis.' The Construction Company recovered a judgment on the taxbills against the plaintiffs in error, who were owners of
abutting property. Upon appeal to the Supreme Court
of Missouri the judgment below was affirmed upon hearing and rehearing. 273 Missouri, 184.
The record discloses that the sewer, for the construction of which the assessment was made, was constructed
in a certain boulevard known as Kingshighway Boulevard.
On the east of this boulevard, and fronting on the same
for a considerable distance, is a tract belonging to the
city, and known as Tower Grove Park; this property was
not assessed for the building of the sewer. This omission
is alleged to be of such an arbitrary and' discriminatory
character as to render the ordinance making the assessment void as a deprivation of federal constitutional rights

GOLDSMITH v. PRENDERGAST CONSTR. CO. 15
12.

Opinion of the Court.

secured to the plaintiffs in error by the due process and
equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Circuit Court made findings of fact in which it
found that there was no evidence that the Municipal
Assembly of the City of St. Louis, in passing the ordinances in question, was actuated by motives of fraud or
oppression; that such motives, if any, must be inferred
solely from the failure to incorporate parcels or tracts
of land in the sewer district, the topography of which
might render it necessary or e:.pedient to then, or thereafter, drain the water or sewage therefrom into the sewer.
The court recites the nature of the title of the tract known
as Tower Grove Park.
It appears that the Park had been conveyed to the
city, the grantor reserving therefrom a strip 200 feet wide,
surrounding the same. The court found that the western
front of the tract, thus conveyed to the city, included the
western gate or entrance of the Park and the strip of 200
feet in width, surrounding the Park proper, and embraced
a total frontage along Kingshighway of about 1470 feet,
and that none of the property included within Tower
Grove Park and the strip of 200 feet in width, reserved
for residence property, was included within the taxing
district for such sewer construction. The court also finds
that with the exception of an area composing s6me 300
feet, each way, located at the southwestern corner of the
Park, the western part of the Park for a distance ol some
600 feet east of Kingshighway is of an elevation aigher
than Kingshighway between Arsenal street and Magnolia
avenue, and the natural drainage thereof is in the main
westwardly towards Kingshighway and that befo-e the
building of the sewer in question surface water ard hydrants drained from said part of the Park through drains
and gutters under said street and sidewalk to a point
west of Kingshighway. That whatever drains for surface
and hydrant water existed in said western and north-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

western portion of the Park led into that section of the
sewer in question, situated in Kingshighway adjoining
the Park; but the court finds that it is unable to determine from the evidence as to when such connection with
said sewer was accomplished, or by whom. The court
also finds that at the time the work in question was performed it was provided by the revised ordinances of the
City of St. Louis that water draining from roofs of houses
should not flow over sidewalks, but should be conducted
through pipes to a sewer if available, and if not then
through pipes below the sidewalk, and into the open gutter of the street. The court does not find from the
evidence that it was not possible or feasible to drain the
surface water falling upon or collected from that portion
of Tower Grove Park, and the reserved strip of 200 feet,
which is higher than and inclined towards Kingshighway,
from the surface of said land in any other manner than
through or by the district sewer constructed in Kingshighway, or that sewage from houses upon said reserved
strip, if any there ever be, cannot be disposed of by
means other than said sewer.
As conclusions of law the court finds that it was within
the powers of the Municipal Assembly, in the passage of
the ordinances establishing the sewer district wherein the
work sued for was performed, to embrace and designate
therein only such real estate as, in their judgment,
should be benefited thereby; that the discretion vested in
the Municipal Legislature was not subject to review by
the court, unless the powers of the Legislature were
affirmatively shown-to have been exercised fraudulently,
oppressively or arbitrarily. And the court found that
the mere omission of the lands from said district which
might, at one time, be reasonably included in the sewer
district in question, or as to which it is reasonable to
assume that the same would be more conveniently served
by the sewer in question than any other, did not justify

GOLDSMITH v. PRENDERGAST CONSTR. CO. 17
12.

Opinion of the Court.

the court in concluding that the Municipal Assembly,
in omitting said lands from the sewer district in question,
was actuated by motives of fraud, or oppression; or that
the prima facie liability of defendants established by the
certified special tax-bill is thereby rebutted and overturned.
On the facts and conclusions of law the judgment was
affirmed by the Supreme Court of Missouri.
The establishment of sewer districts was committed to
local authorities by the charter of the City of St. Louis
which had the force and effect of a statute of the State.
That charter provided that, within the limits of the district prescribed by ordinance recommended by the Board
of Public Improvements, the Municipal Assembly might
establish sewer districts, and such sewers may be connected with a sewer of any class or with a natural course
of crainage. (See § 21, Woerner's Revised Code of St.
Louis, 1907, p. 410.)
The mere fact that the court found that a part of
Tower Grove Park might have been drained into the
sewer, it was held by the Missouri courts, under all the
circumstances, did not justify judicial interference with
the exercise of the discretion vested in the municipal
authorities. The court commented on the fact that it
was not shown that any considerable amount of surface
water was conducted away from the park by this sewer.
Much less do such findings afford reason for this court in
the exercise of its revisory power under the Federal
Constitution to reverse the action of the state courts,
which fully considered the facts, and refused to invalidate
the assessment.
As we have frequently declared, this court only interferes with such assessments on the ground of violation of
constitutional rights secured by the Fourteenth Amendment, when the action of the state authorities is found to
be arbitrary, or wholly unequal in operation and effect.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
252 U. S.

Syllabus.

We need but refer to gome of the cases in which this
principle has been declared.

Embree v.

Kansas City

Road District, 240 U. S. 242; Withnell v. Ruecking Construction Co., 249 U. S. 63; Hancock v. Muskogee, 250 U.
S. 454; Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182.
We find no merit in the contention that a federal-constitutional right was violated because of the refusal to
transfer the cause from the division of the Supreme Court
of Missouri, which heard it, to the court in banc. See
Moore v. Missouri, 159 U. S. 673, 679.

Affirmed.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND & PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY ET AL. v. WARD.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 198. Submitted January 28, 1920.-Decided March 1, 1920.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act places a co-employee's negligence, when the ground of the action, in the same relation as that of
the employer as regards assumption of risk. P. 22.
It is inaccurate to charge without qualification that a servant does not
assume a risk created by his master's negligence, the rule being otherwise where the negligence and danger are so obvious that an ordinarily careful person, under the circumstances, would observe and
appreciate them. P. 21.
But the defense of assumed risk is inapplicable when the injury arises
from a single act of negligence creating a sudden emergency without
warning to the servant or opportunity to judge of the resulting
danger. P. 22.
Where a switchman, when about to apply the brake to stop a "cut" of
freight cars was thrown to the ground by a jerk due to delay in uncoupling them from a propelling engine when the engine was slowed,
held, that he had a right to assume that they would be uncoupled at

