SHAFFER v. CARTER.
Syllabus.

32.

Krippendorf v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, 287. See also a well
considered case in the Circuit Court of Appeals, Ninth
Circuit-Dexter Horton National Bank v. Hawkins, 190
-Fed. Rep. 924.
It is well settled that where a party has the right to a
writ of error or appeal, resort may not be had to the
extraordinary writ of mandamus or prohibition. Ex parte
Harding, 219 U. S. 363; Ex parte Oklahoma, 220 U. S. 191.
As the petitioner had the right of appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals he could not resort to the writ of mandamus or prohibition. It results that an order must be
made discharging the rule.
Rule discharged.

SHAFFER v. CARTER, STATE AUDITOR, ET AL.
FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.

APPEALS

Nos. 531, 580. Argued December 11, 12, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.
When, upon application for a preliminary injunction, the District
Court not only refuses the injunction but dismisses the bill, appeal

to this court should be under Jud. Code, § 238, from the final decree,
and not under § 266. P. 44.
Equity may be resorted to for relief against an unconstitutional tax lien,
clouding the title to real property, if there be no complete remedy at
law. P. 46.
Quere: Whether the Oklahoma laws afford an adequate legal remedy,
in a case where the constitutionality of the state income tax law is
in question. Id.
The Oklahoma taxing laws afford no legal remedy for removing a cloud
caused by an invalid lien for an income tax. P. 48.
Having acquired jurisdiction, equity affords complete relief. Id.
Governmental jurisdiction in matters of taxation depends upon the
power to enforce the mandate of the State by action taken within its
borders either in personam or in rein. P. 49.

38

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

A State may tax income derived from local property and business
owned and managed from without by a citizen and resident of
another State (pp. 49-55): such power is consistent with Const.,
Art.. IV, § 2, guarauteeing privileges and immunities and the equal
protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 53-56.
The constitutionality of such a tax depends on its practical operation
and effect,, and not on mere definitions or theoretical distinctions
-respecting its nature and quality. P. 54.
The fact that the Oklahoma income tax law permits residents to deduct
from their gross income losses sustained without as well as those sustained within the State, while non-residents may deduct only those
occurring within it, does not make the law obnoxious to the privileges and immunities clause, supra, or the equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 56.
Net income derived from interstate commerce is taxable under a state
law providing for a general income tax. P. 57.
The Oklahoma gross production tax, imposed on oil and gas producing
companies, was intended as a substitute for the ad valorem property
tax, and payment of it does not relieve the producer from taxation
under the state income tax law. Id.
The Constitution, including the Fourteenth Amendment, does not forbid double taxation by the States. P: 58.
Without deciding whether it would be consistent with due process to
enforce a tax on the income derived by a non-resident from part of
his property within eState by imposing a lien on all his property,
real and personal, there situate, held, that in this case the State was
justified in treating the various properties and business of a producer
of oil and natural gas, who went on with their operation after the income tax law was enacted, as an entity, producing the income and
subject to the lien. Id.
No. 531, appeal dismissed.
No. 580, decree affirmed.

THh cWse is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Malcolm E. Rosser, with whom Mr. George S.
Ramsey, Mr. Edgar A. de Meules, Mr. Villard Martin

and Mr. J. Berry King were on the brief, for aplellant:
The tax is directed against the income as such, entirely
separate from the business or property out of which it

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

Argument for Appellant.

arises. Therefore it is not an excise tax within the meaning of the Oklahoma constitution; but, even if it were,
it cannot be lawfully laid unless the situs of the incocme
is in Oklahoma.
This tax is not laid on any theory of protection but on
ability to pay. Income Tax Cases, 148 Wisconsin, 456. Its
very nature shows that it is directed against wealthy people. A thousand whose combined income equals appellant's would have no income tax to pay, though their income was from the same sort of business. Appellant's
income is taxed only because it is large and is all going to
one man. Appellant is not in Oklahoma; therefore the State
does not protect him. It protects his property and business, but no more than if they were owned by a thousand
instead of one. It gives his income, as such, no protection
at all, but on the other hand seeks to diminish it merely
because it is large. Appellant's income is from a number
of leases. If the income from each lease went to a different man there would be no tax. What difference can
it make to Oklahoma whether it all goes to one man
or not, if the recipient does not live in Oklahoma? Maguire v. Tax Commissioner, 230 Massachusetts, 503; Brady
v. Anderson, 240 Fed. Rep. 665.
The provisions of the law show that the tax is intended
as a tax on persons rather than property. So the similar
law of Wisconsin has been construed. Manitowoc Gas
Co. v. Wisconsin Tax Commission, 161 Wisconsin, 111;
State ex rel. Sallie F. Moon Co. v. Wisconsin Tax Commission, 166 Wisconsin, 287; U. S. Glue Co. v. Oak
Creek, 161 Wisconsin, 211; s. c. 247 U. S. 321; Peck &
Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165. And see Brady v. Anderson,
supra.
Under the facts of this case appellant's income is
never in Oklahoma. Its situs is in Illinois. It appears
that the appellant manages his business from his office
in Chicago; devotes his time, energy and judgment to

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

it; makes his purchases of supplies and materials, with
minor exceptions, from that office, buying outside' of
Oklahoma and having his purchases shipped in; the
contracts for the sale of oil are made by him in Chicago
with non-residents of Oklahoma, and these non-residents
pay him by checks drawn at their offices, outside of Oklahoma, on banks outside of that State and send the checks
to him in Chicago. The actual money constituting his
income is never in Oklahoma. The net income, which is
all the State is attempting to tax, is never there. He does
not call on the State to assist him in collecting his income,
and if any of the non-residents.to whom he sells oil should
breach their contracts he would not call on the courts
of Oklahoma for redress. Unless the income tax is a tax
on the source of the income, and not on the income itself,
considered as a separate entity, the subject of taxation
in this case is in Chicago.
An income is not a chose in action-a mere promise
or expectation. It is something already derived or received, in the hands of the owner at the time it is derived.
It springs into existence when received; or if there is a
difference, the money from which the income is made
up is with the owner before it has taken the form of net
income. The owner gets the gross proceeds, pays some
expenses, and the remainder constitutes the taxable income under the Oklahoma law. There is no taxable income until the owner has received the money and paid
expenses out of it.
The property or business out of which an income arises
is in no way representative of the income. The value
of the property, or the volume of the business, -has no
necessary relation to the amount of net income. A
man may have property and business and lose money
-on both.
The income is not a chose in action- but in possession
and in this case, in fact as well as in law, is at- the resi-

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

Argument for Appellant.

dence of the owner. The usual rule that movables follow
and have their situs at the residence of the owner is in
some cases a mere fiction adopted for the purpose of
convenience and can be changed by the legislature when
it has any jurisdiction at all. But there is a limit to this
power. Situs is determined by the facts. See Adams v.
Colonial &c. Mortgage Co., 82 Mississippi, 263.
It is not possible to escape the conclusion that the
law is attempting to tax appellant simply because he
made money in Oklahoma. The State has no jurisdiction over either his person or his income and it cannot
tax his business for the reason that it is not taxing any
similar business of residents, except by the gross production tax, and appellant has paid that.
Oklahoma cannot tax property not in the State. To
do so would be to take property without due process of
law. Inheritance taxes rest on entirely different bases.
Blackstone v. Miller, 188 U. S. 189; United States v.
Perkins, 163 U. S.625; Union National Bank v. Chicago,
3 Biss. 82.
'The jurisdiction of the State over incomes of non-residents is not like that of the Federal Government over
incomes of aliens.Oklahoma cannot tax the business, skill, ability and
energy of appellant. Stratton's Independence, v. Howbert,
231 U. S.399. There is a difference between corporations
and individuals in this regard. Adams Express Co. v.
Ohio, 166 U. S.185:
The provisions of the statute attempting to create a
lien on all of appellant's property in Oklahoma to secure
payment of the income tax axe void. Dewey v. Des
Moines, 173 U. S.193; City of New York v. McLean. 170
N. Y. 374.
If the tax is held to be an excise, the payment by,
appellant of the gross production tax required by c.-39,'
Laws of 1916, relieves him from liability. That chaptex

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Appellant.

252 U. S.

repeals the income tax law so fax as the income is derived
from the production of oil and gas.
If the tax is an excise, it is void because it deprives
appellant of privileges and immunities enjoyed by citizens
of Oklahoma, and because it denies him the equal protection of the laws and takes his property without due
process of law. County of Santa Clara v. Southern Pacific
R. R. Co., 18 Fed. Rep. 385; Slaughter-House Cases, 16
Wall. 36; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418; Chalker v.
Birmingham & Northwestern Ry. Co., 249 U. S. 522;
Wiley v. Partner, 14 Alabama, 627; Sprague v. Fletcher,
69 Vermont, 69.
The income tax law of Oklahoma permits residents
to deduct from their gross income, not only losses within
the State, but also losses from bisiness or in any other
way, sistained outside of Oklahoma. It does not permit non-residents to deduct their losses from theL business
outside of the State, from their profits on business carried
on inside of the State. It seems to us that this question
is controlled by the Slaughter-House Cases, supra; Ward
v. Maryland, supra; and Southern Ry. Co. v. Greene, 216
U. S. 400. If the resident can deduct losses outside of
the State while the non-resident is not permitted to d6
so, there is discrimination. Here there is no subjectmatter to uphold the tax as a privilege unless the court
shall hold that there are two distinct privileges in every
business, one to run the business and another to make
money out of it. An 'excise tax on the business of a
natural person, the business being lawful, not the subject of license nor exercised through a franchise, cannot
be graduated in proportion to the net profits. Flint v.
Stonei'Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, and Magoun v. Illinois
Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, distinguished.
A great part of the net profit is earned outside of the
State. There is no way to divide the profits between
Oklahoma and Chicago, and Oklahoma has not at-

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

tempted to formulate a plan. Under any view this tax
must fall. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S. 1, 30.
If the tax is a privilege or excise tax it is void because
Crew Levick
it lays a burden on interstate commerce.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292; Postal Telegraph Cable
Co. v. Adams, 155 U. S. C38, 695; Minnesota Rate Cases,
230 U. S. 352; Kansas City &c. Ry. Co. v. Kansas, 240
U. S. 227; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Kansas, 216
U. S. 1. If the tax is considered an excise on business,
rather than an income tax proper, it is not governed
by U. S. Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, supra;nor by Peck & Co.
v. Lowe, supra.
Mr. S. P. Freeling, Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, and Mr. C. W. King, Assistant Attorney General of the State of Oklahoma, with whom Mr. W. R.
Bleakmore, Assistant Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma, was on the brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

These are two appeals, taken under circumstances
that will be explained, from a single decree in a suit in
equity brought by appellant to restrain the enforcement
of a tax assessed against him for the year 1916 under the
Income Tax Law of the State of Oklahoma, on the
ground of the uncofistitutionality of the statute.
A previous suit having the same object was brought
by him in the same court against the officials then in office,
in which an application for an interlocutory injunction
heard before three judges pursuant to § 266, Judicial Code,
was denied, one judge dissenting. Shaffer v. Howard,
250 Fed. Rep. 873. An appeal was taken to this court,
but, pending its determination, the terms of office of
the defendants expired, and, there being no law of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

State authorizing a revival or continuance of the action
against their successors, we reversed the decree and remanded the cause with directions to dismiss the bill for
want of proper parties. 249 U. S.200.
After such dismissal the present defendant Carter, as
State Auditor, issued another tax warrant and delivered
it to defendant Bruce, Sheriff of Creek County, with
instructions to levy upon and sell plaintiff's property
in that county in order to collect the tax in question; and
the sheriff having threatened to proceed, this suit was
commenced. An application for an interlocutory injunction, heard before three judges, was denied upon
the authority of the decision in 250 Fed. Rep. and of
certain recent decisions of this court. The decree as
entered not only disposed of the application but dismissed
the action. Plaintiff, apparently unaware of this, appealed
to this court under § 266, Judicial Code, from the refusal
of the temporary injunction. Shortly afterwards he took
an appeal under § 238, Judicial Code, from the same
decree as a final decree dismissing the action. The latter
appeal is in accord with correct practice, since the denial
of the interlocutory application was merged in the final
decree. The first appeal (No. 531) will be dismissed.
The constitution of Oklahoma, besides providing for
the annual taxation of all property in the State upon an
ad valorem basis, authorizes (Art. 10, § 12) the employment
of a variety of other means for raising revenue, among
them income taxes.
The act in question is c. 164 of the Laws of 1915. Its
first section reads as follows: "Each and every person
in this State, shall be liable to. an annual tax upon the
entire net income of such person arising or accruing from
all sources during the preceding calendar year, and a like
tax shall be levied, assessed, collected and paid annually
upon the entire net income from all property owned, and
of every business, trade or profession carried on in this

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

State by persons residing elsewhere." Subsequent sections define what the term "income" shall include;
prescribe how net income shall be computed; provide
for certain deductions; prescribe varying rates of tax
for all taxable incomes in excess of $3,000, this amount
being deducted (by way of exemption) from the income
of each individual, and for one living with spouse an
additional $1,000, with further deductions where there
are children or dependents, exemptions being the same
for residents and non-residents; require (§ 2) a return on

or before March first from each person liable for an income tax under the provisions of the act for the preceding
calendar year; provide (§9) that the State Auditor shall
revise returns and hear and determine complaints, with
power to correct and adjust the assessment of income;
that (§10) taxes shall become delinquent if not paid on
or before the first day of July, and the State Auditor
shall have power to issue to any sheriff of the State a
warrant commanding him to levy the amount upon the
personal property of the delinquent party; and (by § 11)
"If any of the taxes herein levied become delinquent,
they shall become a lien on all the property, personal
and real, of such delinquent person, and shall be subject
to the same penalties and provisions as are all ad valorem
taxes."
Plaintiff, a non-resident of Oklahoma, being a citizen
of Illinois and a resident of Chicago in that State, was
at the time of the commencement of the suit and for
several years theretofore (including the years 1915 and
1916) engaged in the oil business in Oklahoma, having
purchased owned, developed, and operated a number
of oil and gas mining leases, and being the owner in fee
of certain oil-producing land, in that State. From
properties thus owned and operated during the year 1916
he received a net income exceeding $1,500,000, and of
this he made, under protest, a return which showed that,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

at the rates fixed by the act, there was due to the State
an income tax in excess of $76,000. The then State
Auditor overruled the protest and assessed a tax in accordance with the return; the present Auditor has put it in
due course of collection; and plaintiff resists its enforcement upon the ground that the act, in so far as it subjects the incomes of non-residents to the payment of such
a tax, takes their property without due process of law
and denies to them the equal protection of the laws,
in contravention of § 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment;
burdens interstate commerce, in contravention of the
commerce clause of § 8 of Art. I of the Constitution; and
discriminates against non-residents in favor of residents,
and thus deprives plaintiff and other non-residents of
the privileges and immunities of citizens and residents
of the State of Oklahoma, in violation of § 2 of Art. IV.
He also insists that the lien attempted to be imposed
upon his property pursuant to § 11 for taxes assessed
upon income not arising out of the same property would
deprive him of property without due process of law.
As ground for resorting to equity, the bill alleges that
plaintiff is the owner of various oil and gas mining leases
covering lands in Creek County, Oklahoma, and that
the lien asserted thereon by virtue of the levy and tax
warrant creates a cloud upon his title. This entitles
him to bring suit in equity (Union Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Cheyenne, 113 U. S. 516, 525; Pacific Express Co. v.
Seibert, 142 U. S. 339, 348; Ogden City v. Armstrong, 168
U. S. 224, 237; Ohio Tax Cases, 232 U. S. 576, 587;
Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R. Co., 244 U. S.
499, 506), unless the contention that he has a plain,
adequate, and complete remedy at law be well founded.
-This contention is based, first, upon the provision of
§ 9 of c. 164, giving to the State Auditor the same power
to correct and adjust an assessment of income that is
given to the county board of equalization in cases of ad

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

valorem assessments, taken in connection with c. 107
of the Laws of 1915, which provides (Art. 1, Subdiv. B,
§ 2, p. 147) for an appeal from that board to the district
court of the county. In a recent decision (Berryhill v.
Carter,76 Oklahoma, 248), the Sipreme Court of the State
held that an aggrieved income taxpayer may have an
appeal under this section, and that thus "all matters
complained of may be reviewed and adjusted to the extent that justice may demand." But the case related
to "correcting and adjusting an income tax return,"
and the decision merely established the appeal to the
district court as the appropriate remedy, rather than
an application to the Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari. It falls short _of indicating-to say nothing
of plainly showing-that this procedure would afford
an adequate remedy to a party contending that the
income tax law itself was repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States.
Secondly, reference is made to § 7 of Subdiv. B, Art. 1,
of c. 107, Oklahoma Laws 1915, p. 149, wherein it is
provided that where illegality of a tax is alleged to arise
by reason of some action from which the laws provide
no appeal, the aggrieved person on paying the tax may
give notice to the officer collecting it, stating the g-ounds
of complaint and that-suit will be brought against him;
whereupon it is made the duty of such officer to hold the
tax until the final determination of such suit if brought
within thirty days; and if it be determined that the tax
was illegally collected, the officer is to repay the amount
found to be in excess of the legal and correct amount.
But this section is one of several that have particular
reference to the procedure for collecting ad valorem taxes;
and they are prefaced by this statement (p. 147): "Subdivision B. To the existing provisions of law relating
to the ad valorem or direct system of taxation the following provisions are added:" Upon this' ground, in Gipsy

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

Oil Co. v. Howard and companion suits brought by certain oil-producing companies to restrain enforcement
of taxes authorized by the gross production tax law (Sess.
Laws 1916, c. 39, p. 102), upon the ground that they
were an unlawful imposition upon federal instrumentalitiep, the United States District Court for the Western
District of Oklahoma held that the legal remedy provided in § 7 of c. 107 applied only to ad valorem taxes,
and did not constitute a bar to equitable relief against
the production taxes. Defendants 'appealed to this
court, and assigned this ruling for error, inter alia; but
they did not press the point, and the decrees were affirmed
upon the merits of the federal question. Howard v.
Gipsy Oil Co., 247 U. S. 503.
We deem it unnecessary to pursue further the question
whether either of the statutory provisions referred to
furnishes an adequate legal remedy against, income
taxes assessed under an unconstitutional law, since one
of the grounds of complaint in the present case is that,
even if the tax itself be valid, the procedure prescribed
by § 11 of the Income Tax Law for enforcing such a tax
by imposing a lien upon the taxpayer's entire property,
as threatened to be put into effect against plaintiff's
property for taxes not assessed against the property itself
and not confined to the income that proceeded from the
same property, is not "due process of law," within the
requirement of the Fourteenth Amendment. For removal of a cloud upon title caused by an invalid lien
imposed for a tax valid in itself, there appears to be no
legal remedy. Hence, on this ground at least, resort
was properly had to equity for relief; and since a court
of equity does not "do justice by halves," and will prevent, if possible, a multiplicity of suits, the jurisdiction
extends to the disposition of all questions raised by the
bill. Camp v. Boyd, 229 U. S. 530, 551-552; McGowan v.
Parish, 237 U, S. 285, 296.

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

This brings us to the merits.
Under the "due process of law" provision appellant
makes two contentions: first, that the State is without jurisdiction to levy a tax upon the income of non-residents;
and, secondly, that the lien is invalid because imposed
upon all his property real and personal, without regard
to its relation to the production of his income.
These are separate questions, and will be so treated.
The tax might be valid, although the measures adopted
for enforcing it were not. Governmental jurisdiction
in matters of taxation, as in the exercise of the judicial
function, depends upon the power to enforce the mandate
of the State by action taken within its borders, either
in personam or in rem according to the circumstances
of the case, as by arrest of the person, seizure of goods
or lands, garnishment of credits, sequestration of rents
and profits, forfeiture of franchise, or the like; and the
jurisdiction to act remains even though all permissible
measures be not resorted to. Michigan Trust Co. v.
Ferry, 228 U. S. 346, 353; Ex parte Indiana Transportation
Co., 244 U. S. 456, 457.
It will'be convenient to postpone the question of the
lien until all questions as to the validity of the tax have
been disposed of.
The contention that a State is without jurisdiction
to impose a tax upon the income of non-residents, while
raised in the present case, was more emphasized in Travis
v. Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., decided this day, post, 60,
involving the income tax law of the State of New York.
There it was contended, in substance, that while a State
may tax the property of a non-resident situate within
its borders, or may tax the incomes of its own citizens
and residents because of the privileges they enjoy under
its constitution and laws and the protection they receive
from the State, yet a non-resident, although conducting
a business or carrying on an occupation there, cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

be required through income taxation to contribute to
the governmental expenses of the State whence his income is derived; that an income tax, as against nonresidents, is not only not a property tax but is not an
excise or privilege tax, since no privilege is granted; the
right of the non-citizen to carry on his business or occupation in the taxing State being derived, it is said, from the
provisions of the Federal Constitution.
This radical contention is easily answered by reference
to fundamental principles. In our system of government
the States have general dominion, and, saving as restricted
-by particular provisions of the Federal Constitution,
complete dominion over all persons, property, and business transactions within their borders; they assume and
perform the duty of preserving and protecting all such
persons, property, and business, and, in consequence, have
the power normally pertaining to governments to resort to
all reasonable forms of taxation in order to defray the
governmental expenses. Certainly they are not restricted
to property taxation, nor to any particular form of excises.
In well-ordered society, property has value chiefly for
what it is capable of producing, and the activities of mankind are devoted largely to making recurrent gains from
the use and development of property, from tillage, mining, manufacture, from the employment of human skill
and labor, or from a combination of some of these; gains
capable of being devoted to their own support, and the
surplus accumulated as an increase of capital. That the
State, from whose laws property and business and industry
derive the protectiow and security without which production and gainful occupation would be impossible, is debarred from exacting a share of those gains in the form of
income taxes for the support of the government, is a
proposition so wholly inconsistent with fundamental
principles as to be refuted by its mere statement. That it
may tax the land but not the crop, the tree but not the

SHAFFER v. CARTER.

37.

Opinion of the Court.

fruit, the mine or well but not the product, the business
but not the profit derived from it, is wholly inadmissible.
Income taxes are a recognized method of distributing
the burdens of government, favored because requiring
contributions from those who realize current pecuniary
benefits under the protection of the government, and
because the tax may be readily proportioned to their
ability to pay. Taxes of this character were imposed by
several of the States at or shortly after the adoption of the
Federal Constitution. New York Laws 1778, c. 17; Report of Oliver Wolcott, Jr., Secretary of the Treasury, to
4th Cong., 2d sess. (1796), concerning Direct Taxes;
-American State Papers, 1 Finance, 423, 427, 429, 437, 439.
The rights of the several States to exercise the widest
liberty with respect to the imposition of internal taxes
always has been recognized in the decisions of this court.
In McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, while denying
their power to impose a tax upon any of the operations of
the Federal Government, Mr. Chief Justice Marshall,
speaking for the court, conceded (pp. 428-429) that the
States have full power to tax their own people and their
own property, and also that the power is not confined to
the people and property of a State, but may be exercised
.upon every object brought within its jurisdiction; saying:
"It is obvious, that it is an incident of sovereignty, and
is co-extensive with that to which it is an incident. tAll
subjects over which the sovereign power of a State extends, are objects of taxation," etc. In Michigan Central
R. R. Co. v. Powers, 201 U. S. 245, the court, by Mr.
Justice Brewer, said (pp. 292, 293): "We have had frequent occasion to consider questions of state taxation in
the light of the Federal Constitution, and the scope and
limits of National interference are well settled. There is
no general supervision on the part of the Nation over state
taxation, and in respect to the latter the State has, speaking generally, the freedom of a sovereign both as to ob-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

jects and methods." That a State may tax callings and
dccupations as well as persons and property has long been
recognized. "The power of taxation, however vast in its
character and searching in its extent, is necessarily limited
to subjects within the jurisdiction of the State. These
subjects are persons, property, and business. . . . It
[taxation] may touch business in the almost infinite forms
in which it is conducted, in professions, in commerce, in
manufactures, and in transportation. Unless restrained
by provisions of the Federal Constitution, the power of the
State as to the mode, form, and extent of taxation is unlimited, where the subjects to which it applies are within
her jurisdiction." State Tax on Foreign-Held Bonds, 15
Wall. 300, 319. See also Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S.
275, 278; Armour & Co. v. Virginia, 246 U. S. 1, 6; American Mfg. Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, 463.
And we deem it clear, upon principle as well as authority,
that just as a State may impose general income taxes upon
its own citizens and residents whose persons are subject
to its control, it may, as a necessary consequence, levy a
duty of like character, and not more onerous in its effect,
upon incomes accruing to non-residents from their property or business within the State, or their occupations
carried on therein; enforcing payment, so far as it can, by
the exercise of a just control over persons and property
within its borders. This is consonant with numerous decisions of this court sustaining state taxation of credits
due to non-residents, New Orleans v. Stempel, 175 U. S.
309, 320, et seq.; Bristol v. Washington County, 177 U. S.
133, 145; Liverpool &c. Ins. Co. v. Orleans Assessors, 221
U. S. 346, 354; and sustaining federal taxation of the income of an alien non-resident derived from securities held
in this country, De Ganay v. Lederer, 250 U. S. 376.
That a State, consistently with the Federal Constitution,
may not prohibit the citizens of other States from carrying on legitimate business within its borders like its own

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

53

Opinion of the Court.

citizens, of course is granted; but it does not follow that
the business of non-residents may not be required to make
a ratable contribution in taxes for the support of the govermnent. On the contrary, the very fact that a citizen of
one State has the right to hold property or carry on an occupation or business in another is a very reasonable,
ground for subjecting such non-resident, although not
personally yet to the extent of his property held, or his
occupation or business carried on therein, to a duty to pay
taxes not more onerous in effect than those imposed under
like circumstances upon citizens of the latter State. Section 2 of Art. IV of the Constitution entitles him to the
privileges and immunities of a citizen, but no more; not
to an entire immunity from taxation, nor to any preferential treatment as compared with resident citizens. It
protects him against discriminatory taxation, but gives
him no right to be favored by discrimination or exemption.
See Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430.
Oklahoma has assumed no power to tax non-residents
with respect to income derived from property or business
beyond the borders of the State. The first section of the
act, while imposing a tax upon inhabitants with respect
to their entire net income arising from all sources, confines
the tax upon non-residents to their net income from property owned and business, etc., carried on within the State.
A similar distinction has been observed in our federal income tax laws, from one of the earliest down to the present.1 The Acts of 1861 (12 Stat. 309) and 1864 (13 Stat.
Acts of August 5, 1861, c. 45, § 49, 12 Stat. 292, 309; June 30, 1864,
c. 173, § 116, 13 Stat. 223, 281; July 4, 1864, Joint Res. 77, 13 Stat. 417;
July 13, 1866, c. 184, § 9, 14 Stat. 98, 137-138; March 2, 1867, c. 169,
§ 13, 14 Stat. 471, 477-478; July 14, 1870, c. 255, § 6, 16 Stat. 256, 257;
August 27, 1894, c. 349, § 27, 28 Stat. 509, 553; October 3, 1913, c. 16,
§ II, A. Subd. 1, 38 Stat. 114, 166; September 8, 1916, c. 463, Title I,
Part I, § 1, a, 39 Stat. 756; October 3, 1917, c. 63, Title 1, §§ 1 and 2, 40
Stat. 300; February 24, 1919, c. 18, §§ 210, 213 (c), 40 Stat. 1057, 1062,
1066.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

281, 417) confined the tax to persons residing in the United
States and citizens residing abroad. But in 1866 (14
Stat. 137-138) there was inserted by amendment the following: "And a like tax shall be levied, collected, and paid
annually upon the gains, profits, and income of every
business, trade, or profession carried on in the United
States by persons residing without the United States, not
citizens thereof." Similar provisions were embodied in
the Acts of 1870 and 1894; and in the Act of 1913 (38
Stat. 166), after a clause imposing a tax upon the entire
net income arising or accruing from all sources (with exceptions not material here) to every citizen of the United
States, whether residing at home or abroad, and to every
person residing in the United States though not a citizen
thereof, the following appears: "and a like tax shall be
assessed, levied, collected, and paid annually upon the
entire net income from all property owned and of every
business, trade, or profession carried on in the United
States by persons residing elsewhere." Evidently this
furnished the model for § 1 of the Oklahoma statute.
No doubt is suggested (the former requirement of
apportionment having been removed by constitutional
amendment) as to the power of Congress thus to impose
taxes upon incomes produced within the borders of the
United States or arising from sources located therein, even
though the income accrues to a non-resident alien. And, so
far as the question of jurisdiction is concerned, the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment imposes no
greater restriction in this regard upon the several States
than the corresponding clause of the Fifth Amendment
imposes upon the United States.
It is insisted, however, both by appellant in this case
and by the opponents of the New York law in Travis v.
Yale & Towne Mfg. Co., that an income tax is in its nature
a personal tax, or a "subjective tax imposing personal liability upon the recipient of the income;" and that as to a

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

Opinion of the Court.

non-resident the State has no jurisdiction to impose such
a liability. This argument, upon analysis, resolves itself
into a mere question of definitions, and has no legitimate
bearing upon any question raised under the Federal Constitution. For, where the question is whether a state taxing law contravenes rights secured by that instrument,
the decision must depend not upon any mere question of
form, construction, or definition, but upon the practical
operation and effect of the tax imposed. St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 362; Mountain
Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S. 219, 237; Crew Levick
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, 294; American Mfg.
Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S. 459, 463. The practical burden
of a tax imposed upon the net income derived by a nonresident from a business carried on within the State certainly is no greater than that of a tax upon the conduct of
the business, and this the State has the lawful power to
impose, as we have seen.
The fact that it required the personal skill and management of appellant to bring his income from producing
property in Oklahoma to fruition, and that his management was exerted from his place of business in another
State, did not deprive Oklahoma of jurisdiction to tax the
income which arose within its own borders. The personal
element cannot, by any fiction, oust the jurisdiction of the
State within which the income actually arises and whose
authority *over it operates in rem. At most, there might
be a question whether the value of the service of management rendered from without the State ought not to be
allowed as an expense incurred in producing the income;
but no such question is raised in the present case, hence
we express no opinion upon it.
The contention that the act deprives appellant and
others similarly circumstanced of the privileges and immunities enjoyed by residents and citizens of the State of
Oklahoma, in violation of § 2 of Art. IV of the Constitu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

tion, is based upon two grounds, which are relied upon as
showing also a violation of the "equal protection" clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment.
One of the rights intended to be secured by the former
provision is that a citizen of one State may remove to and
carry on business in another without being subjected in
property or person to taxes more onerous than the citizens
of the latter State are subjected to. Paul v. Virginia, 8
Wall. 168, 180; Ward v. Maryland, 12 Wall. 418, 430;
Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 537. The judge who
dissented in Shaffer v. Howard, 250 Fed. Rep. 873, 883,
concluded that the Oklahoma income tax law offended in
this regard, upon the ground (p. 888) that since the tax
is as to citizens of Oklahoma a purely personal tax measured by their incomes, while as applied to a non-resident
it is "essentially a tax upon his property and. business
within the State, to which the property and business of
citizens and residents of the State are not subjected,"
there was a discrimination against the non-resident. We
are unable to accept this reasoning. It errs in paying too
much regard to theoretical distinctions and too little to
the practical effect and operation of the respective taxes
as levied; in failing to observe that in effect citizens and
residents of the State are subjected at least to the same
burden as non-residents, and perhaps to a greater, since
the tax imposed upon the former includes all income derived from their property and business within the State
and, in addition, any income they may derive from outside
sources.
Appellant contends that there is a denial to non-citizens
of the privileges and immunities to which they are entitled, and also a denial of the equal protection of the laws,
in that the act permits residents to deduct from their gross
income not only losses incurred within the State of Oklahoma but also those sustained outside of that State, while
non-residents may deduct only those incurred within the

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

57

Opinion of the Court.

State. The difference, however, is only such as arises
naturally from the extent of the jurisdiction of the State
in the two classes of cases, and cannot be regarded as an
unfriendly or unreasonable discrimination. As to residents it may, and does, exert its taxing power over their
income from all sources, whether within or wiAout the
State, and it accords to them a corresponding privilege of
deducting their losses, wherever these accrue. As to nonresidents, the jurisdiction extends only to their property
owned within the State and their business, trade, or profession carried on therein, and the tax is only on such income as-is derived from those sources. Hence there is no
obligation to accord to them a deduction. by reason of
losses elsewhere incurred. It may be remarked, in passing,
that there is no showing that appellant has sustained such
losses, and so he is not entitled to raise this question.
It is urged that, regarding the tax as imposed upon the
business conducted within the State, it amounts in the
case of appellant's business to a burden upon interstate
commerce, because the products of his oil operations are
shipped out of the State. Assuming that it fairly appears
that his method of business constitutes interstate commerce, it is sufficient to say that the tax is imposed not
upon the gross receipts, as in Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, but only upon the net proceeds, and
is plainly sustainable even if it includes net gains from
interstate commerce. U. S. Glue Co. v. Oak Creek, 247
U. S. 321. Compare Peck & Co. v. Lowe, 247 U. S. 165.
Reference is made to the gross production tax law of
1915 (c. 107, Art. 2, Subdiv. A, § 1; Sess. Laws 1915, p.
151), as amended by c. 39 of Sess. Laws 1916 (p. 104), under which every person or corporation engaged in producing oil or natural gas within the State is required to pay
a tax equal to 3 per centum of the gross value of such
product in lieu of all taxes imposed by the State, counties,
or municipalities upon the land or the leases, mining rights,

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

and privileges, and the machinery, appliances, and equipment, pertaining to such production. It is contended that
payment of the gross production tax relieves the producer
from the payment of the income tax. This is a question
of state law, upon Which no controlling decision by the
Supreme Court of the State is cited. We overrule the
contention, deeming it clear, as a matter of construction,
that the gross production tax was intended as a substitute
for the ad valorem property tax but not for the income tax,
and that there is no such repugnance between it and the
income tax as to produce a repeal by implication. Nor,
even if the effect of this is akin to double taxation, can it
be regarded as obnoxious to the Federal Constitution for
that reason, since it is settled that nothing in that instrument or in the Fourteenth Amendment prevents the
States from imposing double taxation, or any other form
of unequal taxation, so long as the inequality is not based
upon arbitrary distinctions. St. Louis Southwestern Ry.
Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350, 367-368.
The contention that there is a want of due process in
the proceedings for enforcement of the tax, especially in
the lien imposed by § 11 upon all of the delinquent's property, real and personal, reduces itself to this: that the
State is without power to create a lien upon any property
of a non-resident for income taxes except the very property
from which the income proceeded; or, putting it in another
way, that a lien for an income tax may not be imposed
upon a non-resident's unproductive property, nor upon
any particular productive property beyond the amount
of the tax upon the income that has proceeded from it.
But the facts of the case do not raise this question. It
clearly appears from the averments of the bill that the
whole of plaintiff's property in the State of Oklahoma consists of oil-producing land, oil and gas mining leaseholds,
and other property used in the production of oil and gas;
and that, beginning at least as early as the year 1915,

SHAFFER v. CARTER.
37.

Dissent.

when the act was passed, and continuing without interruption until the time of the commencement of the suit (April
16, 1919), he was engaged in the business of developing
and operating these properties for the production of oil,
his entire business in that and other States was managed
as one business, and his entire net income in the State for
the year 1916 was derived from that business. Laying
aside the probability that from time to time there may
have been changes arising from purchases, new leases,
sales, and expirations (none of which, however, is set forth
in the bill), it is evident that the lien will rest upon the
same property interests which were the source of the income upon which the tax was imposed. The entire jurisdiction of the State over appellant's property and business and the income that he derived from them-the only
jurisdiction that it has sought to assert-is a jurisdiction
in rem; and we are clear that the State acted within its
lawful power in treating his property interests and business as having both unity and continuity. Its purpose to
impose income taxes was declared in its own constitution,
and the precise nature of the tax and the measures to be
taken for enforcing it were plainly set forth .in the Act of
1915; and plaintiff having thereafter proceeded, with
notice of this law, to manage the property and conduct
the business out of which proceeded the income now taxed,
the State did not exceed its power or authority in treating his property interests and his business as a single entity, and enforcing payment of the tax by the imposition
of a lien, to be followed by execution or other appropriate
process, upon all property employed in the business.
No. 531. Appeal dismissed.
No. 580. Decree affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS

dissents.

