PENNA. GAS CO. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
18.

23

Syllabus.

The trial court also charged that contributory negligence by Ward would prevent a recovery. This charge
was more favorable to the petitioners than they were
entitled to, as under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act contributory negligence is not a defense, and only
goes in mitigation of damages. The giving of this charge
'could not have been prejudical error requiring a reversal
of the judgment.
Another assignment of error, dealt with by the Supreme
Court of Oklahoma, that a jury of less than twelve returned the verdict, conforming to the state practice, does
*not seem to be pressed here. In any event it is disposed of
by St. Louis & San Francisco R. R. Co. v. Brown, 241
U. S. 223.
We find no error in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma and the same is
Affirmed.

PENNSYLVANIA GAS COMPANY v. PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMISSION, SECOND DISTRICT,
OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF

NEW YORK.
No. 330.

Argued December 8, 9, 1919.-Decided March 1, 1920.

The transmission and sale of natural gas, produced in one State and
transported and furnished directly to consumers in a city of another
State by means of pipe lines from the source of supply in part laid in
the city streets, is interstate commerce (p. 28); but, in the absence
of any contrary regulation by Congress, is subject to local regulation of rites. P. 29. Public Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249
U. S. 236, distinguished.
225 N. Y. 397, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

252 U. S.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John E. Mullin, with whom Mr. Marion H. Fisher
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
The State has no power to regulate the rates in question, for such action necessarily imposes a direct burden
and restraint upon interstate commerce.
The State in effect proposes to meet the plaintiff in
error at the state line and to deny it freedom to import
for sale a legitimate commodity of commerce except at a
price to be fixed by the State. Nay more, the State
apparently proposes not only to restrict the right of sale,
but to compel the plaintiff in error to continue to import
its Pennsylvania product for sale at the price fixed by the
State. If such a regulation is not direct and substantialif it does not restrain and burden interstate commerce, we
can conceive of no action which would.
That a business is "regulated" when the return allowed
on the business or the sale price of the commodity dealt
in is fixed by governmental authority cannot be questioned, and such a regulation is far more substantial and
burdensome than was the regulation of customers declared to be an unauthorized interference with boommerce
in the Ticker Case, 247 U. S. 105, or the inspection charge
declared invalid by this court in Western Oil Refg. Co.
v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346. It is more direct than the
state license fees upon agents selling and delivering interstate merchandise declared repugnant to the Constitutibn in Stewart v. Michigan,232 U. S. 665; Caldwell v.
North Carolina, 187 U. S. 622, and in Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507.
The rate or price received for the transportation and
supply of the natural gas is the vital part of the transaction. Short of flat prohibition, there is no way to strike
more directly at the heart of a commercial transaction
than to fix the price that is to be received in it. See

PENNA. GAS CO. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
23.

25

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419, 447; Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, i08, 119-123; Clark Distilling Co. v.
Western Maryland Ry. Co., 242 U. S. 311, 328, 329; Lyng
v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 161, 166; Bowman v. Chicago
& Northwestern Ry. Co., 125 U. S. 465, 507; Judson on
Interstate Commerce, ยง 17; West v. Kansas Natural Gas
Co., 221 U. S. 255, 256.
The validity of state action does not rest upon the discretion or good judgment of the State, nor on the reasonableness of the regulation imposed. It depends solely
on the question of power. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat.
419, 439; Western Union Tel. Co. v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1,
27; Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U. S. 101;
107.
Federal functions may not be usurped under the police
power, nor does the occupancy of highways by the plain tiff in error under local franchises authorize the State to
regulate the price of gas moving in interstate commerce.
Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S. 100, 108, 119-123; Lyng v.
Michigan, 135 U. S. 161-166; Wabash, St. Louis & Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557.
Substantially parallel to the pipe line of the plaintiff in
error, between the City of Warren, Pa., and the City of
Jamestown, N. Y., an interurban trolley system is operated. This line is typical of many others, occupying city
streets under local franchises. The State will hardly
assert that it is able to regulate the interstate business or
interstate rates of such trolley lines under the police power
or because of the use of local franchises. The same rules
and the same principles must be applied to the interstate
business of the plaintiff in error.
This court has already held that the interstate gas
business may not be regulated under the police power
based on the use of highways. West v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229. See Kansas Natural Gas Co. v.
Haskell, 172 Fed. Rep. 545.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

The interstate natural gas business conducted by
plaintiff in error is national, not local, in character, and
the proposed state regulation thereof is not local in its
operation. An interstate transaction requires national
control whenever it is of such character that one State
cannot control it without in effect extending its regulations into another State, or in effect assuming jurisdiction over property in another State, or leaving the transaction subject to conflicting regulations of different States.
The power of a State to enforce common-law duties, or
like statutory duties, of public utilities engaged in interstate commerce does not extend to prescribing rates for
interstate commerce. Subjecting interstate rates to control by a state commission is not the same as enforcing
the common-law duty to serve at reasonable rates.
In fixing intrastate rates, for an interstate public utility, the State has no right to take into consideration the
business of the company outside of the State, or base
them on the value of the property outside the State. In
fixing the gas rates in question, the State necessarily
regulates the rate or return for the interstate transportation of the gas, and that is beyond its power.
Mr. Ledyard P. Hale for Public Service Commission,
defendant in error.
Mr. Louis L. Thrasher for City of Jamestown et al.,
defendants in error.
MR. JusTicE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This writ of error brings before us for consideration the
question whether the Public Service Commission of the
State of New York has the power to regulate rates at
which natural gas shall be furnished by the Pennsylvania
Gas Company, plaintiff in error, to-consumers in the city
of Jamestown in the State of New York. The Court of

PENNA. GAS CO. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
23.

27

Opinion of the Court.

Appeals of New York (225 N. Y. 397) held that the Com-,
mission had such authority.
The statute of the State of New York, ยง 65, Public
Service Commission Law, Laws 1910, c. 480, provides:
"Every gas corporation, every electrical corporation and
every municipality shall furnish and provide such service, instrumentalities and facilities as shall be safe and
adequate and in all respects just and reasonable. All
charges made or demanded by any such gas corporation,
electrical corporation or municipality for gas, electricity
or any service rendered or to be rendered, shall be just
and reasonable and not more than allowed by law or by
order of the commission having jurisdiction. Every unjust or unreasonable charge made or demanded for gas,
electricity or any such service, or in connection therewith,
or in excess of that allowed by law or by the order of the
commission is prohibited."
Consumers of gas, furnished by the plaintiff in error in
the city of Jamestown, New York, filed a complaint demanding a reduction of gas rates in that city. The Public
Service Commission asserted its jurisdiction which, as we
have said, was sustained by the Court of Appeals of
New York..
The federal question presented for our consideration
involves the correctness of the contention of the plaintiff
in error that the authority undertaken to be exercised by
the Commission, and sustained by the court, was an
attempt under state authority to regulate interstate
commerce, and violative of the constitutional power
granted to Congress over commerce among the States.
The facts are undisputed. The plaintiff in error, the
Pennsylvania Gas Company, is a corporation organized
under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania and engaged
in transmitting and selling natural gas in the State of
New York and Pennsylvania. It transports the gas by
pipe-lines about fifty miles in length from the source

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

of supply in the State of Pennsylvania into the State of
New York. It sells and delivers gas to consumers in the
city of 4 mestown, in'the town of Ellicott, and in the
village of Falconer, all in Chautauqua County, New York.
It also sells and delivers natural gas to consumers in the
cities of Warren, Corry and Erie in Pennsylvania.
We think that the transmission and sale of natural gas
produced in one State, transported by means of pipe-lines
and directly furnished to consumers in another State, is
interstate commerce within the principles of the cases
already determined by this court. West v. Kansas Natural Gas Co. 221 U. S. 229; Haskell v. Kansas Natural Gas
Co., 224 U. S. 217; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Foster,
247 U. S. 105.
This case differs from Public Utilities Commission v.
Landon, 249 U. S. 236, whereih we dealt with the piping
of natural gas from one State to another, and its sale to
independent local gas companies in the receiving State,
and held that the retailing of gas by the local companies
to their consumers was intrastate commerce and not a
continuation of interstate commerce, although the mains
of the local companies receiving And distributing the gas
to local consumers were connected permanently with
those of the transmitting company. Under the circumstances set forth in that case we held that the interstate
movement ended when the gas passed into the local
mains: that the rates to be charged by the 10-al companies
had but an indirect effect upon interstate commerce and,
therefore, the matter was subject to local regulation.
In the instant case the gas is transmitted directly from
the source of supply in Pennsylvania to the consumers in
the cities and towns of New York and Pennsylvania,
above mentioned. Its transmission is direct, and without
intervention of any sort between the beller and the buyer.
The transmission is continuous and single and is, in our
opinion, a transmission in interstate commerce and there-

-

23.

PENNA. GAS, CO. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.

29

Opinion of the Court.

fore subject to applicable constitutional limitations which
govern the States in dealing with matters of the character
of the one now before us.
The general principle is well established and often
asserted in the decisions of this court that the State may
not directly regulate or burden interstate commerce.
That subject, so far as legislative regulation is concerned,
has been committed by the Constitution to the control of
the Federal Congress. But while admitting this general
principle, it, like others of a general nature, is subject
to qualifications not inconsistent with the general rule,
which now are as well established as the principle itself.
In dealing with interstate commerce it is not in some
instances regarded as an infringment upon the authority
delegated to Congress, to permit the States to pass laws
indirectly affecting such commerce, when needed to protect or regulate matters of local interest. Such laws are
operative until Congress acts under its superior authority
by regulating the subject-matter for itself. In varying
forms this subject has frequently been before this court.
The previous cases were fully reviewed and deductions.
made therefrom in the Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S.
352. The paramount authority of Congress over the
regulation of interstate commerce was again asserted in
those cases. It was nevertheless recognized that there
existed in the States a permissible exercise of authority,
which they might use until Congress had taken possession of the field of regulation. After stating the limitations upon state authority, of this subject, we said (p. 402):
"But within these limitations there necessarily remains
to the States, until Congress acts, a wide range for the
permissible exercise of power appropriate to their territorial jurisdiction although interstate commerce may be
affected. It extends to those matters of a loci1 nature as
to which it is impossible to derive from the constitutional
grant an intention that they should go uncontrolled

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

pending Federal intervention. Thus, there are certain
subjects having the most obvious and direct relation to
interstate commerce, which nevertheless, with the acquiescence of Congress, have been controlled by state
legislation from the foundation of the Government because of the necessity that they should not remain unregulated and that their regulation should be adapted
to varying local exigencies; hence, the absence of regulation by Congress in such matters has not imported that
there should be no restriction but rather that the States
should continue to supply the needed rules until Congress should decido to supersede them. . . . Our system of government is a practical adjustment by which the
National authority as conferred by the Constitution is
maintained in its full scope without unnecessary loss of
local efficiency. Where the subject is peculiarily one of
local concern, and from its nature belongs to the class with
which the State appropriately deals in making reasonable
provision for local needs, it cannot be regarded as left to
the unrestrained will of individuals because Congress has
not acted, although it may have such a relation'to interstate
commerce as to be within the reach of the Federal power.
In such case, Congress must be the judge of the necessity
of Federal action. Its paramount authority always enables it to intervene at its discretion for the complete and
effective government of that which has been committed
to its care, and, for this purpose and to this extent, in response to a conviction of national need, to displace local laws
by substituting laws of its own. The successful working of
our constitutional system has thus been made possible."
The rates of gas companies transmitting gas in interstate commerce are not only not regulated by Congress,
but the Interstate Commerce Act expressly withholds the
subject from federal control. C. 309, ยง 7, 36 Stat. 539, 544.
The thing which the State Commission has underjtaken to regulate, while part of an interstate transmis-

PENNA. GAS CO. v. PUB. SERVICE COMM.
23.

Opinion of the Court.

31

-

sion, is local in its nature, and pertains to the furnishing
of natural gas to local consumers within the city of
Jamestown in the State of New York. The pipes which
reach the customers served are supplied with gas directly
from the main of the company which brings it into the
State, nevertheless the service rendered is essentially
local, and the sale of gas is by the company to local
consumers who are reached by the use of the streets of the
city in which the pipes are laid, and through which the'
gas is conducted to factories and residences as it is required for use. The' service is similar to that of a local
plant furnishing gas to consumers in a city.
This local service is not of that character which requires general and uniform regulation of rates by congressional action, and which has always been held beyond
the power of the States, although Congress has not

legislated upon the subject. While the manner in which
the business is conducted is part of interstate commerce,
its regulation in the distribution of gas to the local consumers is required in the public interest and has not been
attempted under the superior authority of Congress.
It may be conceded that the local rates may affect the
interstate business of the company. But this fact does
not prevent the State from making local regulations of a
reasonable character. Such regulations are always subject to the exercise of authority by Congress enabling it
to exert its superior power under the commerce clause of
the Constitution.
The principles announced, often reiterated in the decisions of this court, were applied in the judgment affirmed
by the Court of Appeals of New York, and we agree with
that court that, until the subject-matter is regulated by
congressional action, the exercise of authority conferred by
the State upon the Public Service Commission is not violative of the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution.
Affirmed.

