OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Order.

252 U. S.

STATE OF OKLAHOMA v. STATE OF TEXAS,
UNITED STATES, INTERVENER.
IN EQUITY.
No. 27, Original. Motion for leave to intervene and to submit motion
for injunction and receiver submitted March 29, 1920. Order entered.
April 1, 1920.

Order granting injunction and appointing receiver.
This cause coming on to be heard on the motion of the
United States for leave to intervene herein for an injunction and for the 'itpointment of a receiver, and on the responses made to such motion by the State of Oklahoma
and the State of Texas, respectively, and the court being
fully advised in the premises,
It is now considered, ordered and decreed as follows,
until the further order of the court:
1. That said motion for leave to intervene herein be,
and the same is hereby, granted.
2. The defendant, the State of Texas, her officers and
agents, are hereby enjoined from selling any purported
rights or making or issuing any grants, licenses or permits
to any person, corporation or association covering or affecting any lands, or any part of the bed of Red River, lying
north of the line of the south bank of such river as said
south bank existed at the date of the ratification of the
Treaty of 1819 between the United States and Spain, that
is to say, on the twenty-second day of February, 1821,
and between the One Hundredth degree of West Longitude and the southeastern corner of the State of Oklahoma.
3. Jacob M. Dickinson, Esquire, of Chicago, Illinois,

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
372.

Order

is hereby appointed receiver of all the lands described in
paragraph two of the said intervener's motion, to wit:
Bounded on the north by the mid channel of the Red
River, as the mid channel is hereinafter defined; on the
east bSy extension south of the west boundary line of
Range 10 West between Township 4 South, Range 10
West, and Township 4 South, Range 11 West, in Cotton
County, Oklahoma, crossing the remaining portion of
said Red River and to the foot of the Texas -bluffs as the
South bank,-Thence up said River along the foot of
the Texas bluffs as the South bank, through Ranges 11,
12, 13, and through Range 14 as follows: Commencing
at a point on the east boundary line of Range 14 extended
which point is 116.50 chains from the original meander
corner of fractional Section 31, Township 4 South, Range
13 West and Section 36, Township 4 South, Range 14
West; thence
N. 790 00' W. 26.75 chs.
N. 710 15' W. 33.00 "
N. 750 15' W. 28.25 "
N. 850 30' W. 22.60 "
S. 850 15' W. 52.20 "
S. 850 30'W. 8.90 "
N. 820 00' W. 21.40 "
S. 82' 15' W. 11.50 "
S. 710 30' W. 66.70 "
S. 690 00' W. 59.25 "
to a point on the present south bank of the Red River
which is at the foot of the Texas bluff; thence along the
line of the south bank and the foot of the Texas bluff
S.
S.
S.
S.
S.

64'
640
510
650
710

30'
00'
30'
45'
15'

W.
W.
W.
W.
W.

36.00 chs.
20.40
44.60
24.20 "
54.70 "

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Order.

252 U. S.

to a point on the present south bank of Red River at the
foot of the Texas bluff at the intersection of a direct south
extension of the west boundary of Range 14 West between
fractional Section 7, Township 5 South, Range 14 West,
and Section 12, Township 5 South, Range 15, which point
is 57.43 chains from the original meander corner of said
fractional sections.Thence continuing up said River along the foot of the
Texas bluffs as the south bank, through Ranges 15 and 16
to the intersection of the west boundary line of Range 16
extended to the foot of the Texas bluffs.Thence north along said boundary line of Range 16
to mid channel of said River as the same meanders through
the broad stretch of sand which in some places extends
to and is bounded by the bluffs on either side and in other
places by the margin of the alluvial flood plain on either
side, and which is covered with water at times of freshets
and entirely devoid of flowing water during the annual
dry seasons,-and of all machinery, fixtures, tools and
other property of W'hatever kind or character now on
said lands and used in connection with the extraction,
storage, transportation, refining or disposal of the oil or gas
products of said lands. And the said receiver is hereby
authorized and empowered to take possession of said
lands and property forthwith, to take all appropriate
measures to conserve the oil and gas within such lands
and to control all operations thereon for the production
and disposal of such oil and gas.
4. Within thirty days after taking possession the
receiver shall formulate and report to this court full and
complete plans for prospecting such lands and developing
and producing. the oil and gas within the same; and until
such report is made and acted upon by the court the
receiver shall operate the existing oil and gas wells on
said lands, or permit them to be operated by their respetive claimants under his direction and supervision, or

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
372.

Order.

close down said wells if he shall deem it advisable to do
so; and he shall sell at market prices the oil and gas so
produced and pay out of the proceeds the necessary expenses of operation and supervision. Full and accurate
accounts shall be kept by the receiver of all oil and gas
so produced and of the proceeds derived from their sale
and the expenses paid therefrom; and these accounts
shall be kept in such way that they will show separately the production, proceeds and expenses pertaining
to each well so that the net proceeds: may be ultimately
awarded to the rightful claimant.
5. Before entering upon his duties the receiver shall
execute a bond to be approved by the court in the sum
of One Hundred Thousand Dollars for the faithful performance of his duties including the disbursement and
payment according to the court's direction of all moneys
which may come into his hands in the course of the re-ceivership.
6. The receiver shall receive such compensation for
his services as may be fixed hereafter by the court.
7. The defendant, the State of Texas, and the complainant, the State of Oklahoma, and their respective
officers, agents and employees, and all persons now in
possession of any of the said lands or claiming any right,
title or interest therein, are directed to deliver possession
thereof to the said receiver and are enjoined until the
further order of this court from removing any of the
property hereinbefore described from said lands and from
conducting any oil or gas mining operations thereon save
under the direction and supervision of the receiver and
from interfering with the possession, control or operations
of the receiver.
8. As to such of the land before described as is not
claimed by the defendant, the State of- Texas, in its proprietary capacity said State shall have fifteen days within
which to file a response to the intervener's motion for an

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

injunction and receiver; and on the filing of such response
the State of Texas or any claimant claiming under a patent
lease or. permit from that State shall be at liberty to request any modification of this order deemed essential or
appropriate for the right or full protection of the interest
of such State or claimant.
9. Either the plaintiff, the State of Oklahoma, or the
intervener, the United States, may by an amendment
of its pleading make any claimant claiming under the
State of Texas or any other claimant a party to the cause
and have the requisite process issued and served, so that
all parties claiming an interest in the subject-matter may
be before the court. And the like permission is granted to
the State of Texas in respect of parties claiming under
the State of Oklahoma or the United States.

CALDWELL v. PAR KER, SHERIFF OF CALHOUN
COUNTY, ALABAMA.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THER UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN

No. 636.

DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.

Argued March 4, 5,.1920.-DecidQd April 19, 1920.

The jurisdiction to try and punish for the crime of murder, committed
by a person in the federal military service upon a civilian while the
nation is at war, but in a place within the jurisdiction of a State

where hostilities are not present and where martial law has not been
proclaimed, is not vested exclusively in a military court-martial by
the Articles of War of 1916; and conviction and sentence of a soldier,

in such circumstances, in the state court, are not void. So held, where
no demand for the culprit had been made upon the State by the military authorities. P. 385.

Affirmed.

