OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioners.

252 U. S.

CHAPMAN ET AL. v. WINTROATH.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 117. Argued January 9, 1920.-D3cided March 1, 1920.
An inventor whose application disclosed but did not claim an invention
which is later patented toanother, is allowed by the patent law two
years after such patent issues within which to file a second or divisional application claiming the invention; and this period may not
be restricted by the courts upon the ground that so much delay
may be prejudicial to public or private interests. P. 134. Rev.

Stas, 4886.
Such a second application is not to be regarded as an amendment to
the orginal appfication and so subject to the one year limitation of
Rev.- Stats., § 4894. P. 138.
Nor can the right to make it be deemed lost by laches or abandonment
merely because of a delay not exceeding the two years allowed by
the statute. P. 139.
47T App. D. C. 428, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John L. Jackson, with whom Mr. Albert H. Adams
was on the brief, for petitioners:
An application for patent is a purely statutory proceeding, and an applicant is entitled to all the rights conferred by the patent statutes. United States v. Amercan
Bell Tel. Co., 167 U. S. 224, 246.
Under Rev. Stats., § 4886, an inventor may obtain a
patent for his invention provided, among other things,
it was not patented more than two years prior to his
application. Therefore, even if their original application
be left out of consideration, the respondent's patent was
not a statutory bar to-the grant of a patent to petitioners.
Rev. Stats., § 4904, which is the statutory authority

CHAPMAN v. WINTROATH.
126.

Argument for Petitioners.

for the declaration of interferences, fixes no time limit
within whiih the applicant of a pending application must
claim an invention already patented to another in order to
obtain an interference with such patent, other than that
the patent must be unexpired. Respondent's patent was
unexpired, and therefore petitioners were lawfully entitled to contest priority with him.
It is not disputed that petitioners' original application
fully *discloses the subject-matter of their divisional
application and of the interference issue, and was never
abandoned or forfeited, but' was regularly prosecuted
according to law and the rules of the Patent Office. Therefore, considering their original application merely as proof
of their priority over respondent, they are indubitably the
first inventors of the issue of the interference. Victor
Talking Mach. Co. v. American Graphophone Co., 145
Fed. Rep. 350, 351; Automatic Weighing Mach. Co. v.

Pneumatic Scale Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 288; Sundh Elec. Co.
v. Interborough 1apid Transit Co., 198 Fed. Rep. 94;
Lemley v. Dobson-Evans Co., 243 Fed. Rep. 391.
Interferences are authorized for the sole purpose of determining the question of priority of invention. "The
statute is explicit.. It limits the declaration of interferences

) the question of priority of invention."

Lowry

v. A ller 203 U. S. 476; Ewing v. Fowler Car Co., 244 U.
S. 1, 1.

It .-ollows that, inasmuch as petitioners' applications
(divisional as well as original) were filed less than two
years after the grant of respondent's patent, and their
priority over respondent is incontrovertibly emtablished,
judgment should have been rendered in their favor.
Ewing v. Fowler Car Co., supra.
The rule announced in Rowntree v. Sloan, 45 App. D. C.
207, is direct ' in conflict with Rev. Stats., §§ 4886, 4904.
For more than forty years it has been the practice of the
Patent Office to declare interferences between applicants

OCTQBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Petitioners.

252 U. S.

and patentees where the applicant made affidavit showing
his conception of the invention prior to the filing of the
patentee's application. Rule 51 (1870); Lowery's Annotated Interference Rules, p. 7. Moreover, until the
amendment of March 3, 1897, to Rev. Stats., § 4886, which
introduced the words "or more than two years prior to
his application," a prior unexpired patent was never a bar
to the grant of a patent to an applicant who could prove
his claim to priority over it, regardless of when his application was filed. Schreeve v. Grissinger, 202 0. G. 951;
C. D., 1914, 49, p. 51.
Rev. Stats.I §4904, provides for the declaration of interferences between an application and any unexpired patent,
so that reading the latter section in connection with § 4886,
when the Commissioner is of the opinion that an interference exists between an application and any unexpired
patent issued not more than two years before the application was filed, the applicant has a statutory right to the
declaration of such interference, and on proving priority,
to receive his patent. Ewing v. Fowler Car Co., supra.
An applicant who prosecutes his application according
to law and the Patent Office rules is not chargeable with
laches. United States v. American Bell Tel. Co., 167 U. S.
224, 246; Crown Cork & Seal Co. v. Aluminum Stopper
Co., 108 Fed. Rep. 845, 851; Columbia Motor Car Co. v.
Duerr & Co., 184 Fed. Rep. 893, 895.
The time when a claim is first made is immaterial, as
when made it relates back to the date of filing of the application, and if made in a divisional application, it relates
back to the date of filing of the original or parent applicatiof. Lotz v. Kenney, 31 App. D. C. 205; Von Recklinghausen v. Dempster, 34 id., 474.
Rev. Stats., § 4894, relates to the prosecution of applications to save them from abandonment, and has nothing
whatever to do with abandonment of inventions.
The effect of the ruling in this ease is that petitioners

CHAPMAN v. WINTROATH.
126.

Argument for Petitioners.

constructively abandoned their invention to respondent,
a later inventor, and that such constructive abandonment
occurred while they had still pending, and were regularly
prosecuting, an application for patent therefor.
Tlre patent laws do not recognize such a thing as the
constructive abandonment of an invention for which an
applicant has lawfully filed, and is regularly prosecuting,
an application for patent. Abandonment of an invention
is a question of fact, and must be proven. Ide v. Trorlicht
Co., 115 Fed. Rep. 144; Saunders v. Miller, 33 App. D. C.
456; Miller v. Eagle Mfg. Co., 151 U. S. 186; Rolfe v. Hoffman, 26 App. D. C. 336, 340; Kinnear Mfg. Co. v. Wilson,
142 Fed. Rep. 970, 973.
Abandonment of an invention is a very different thing
from abandonment of an application for patent. Western
Elec. Co. v. Sperry Elec. Co., 58 Fed. Rep. 186, 19i;
Hayes-Young Tie Plate Co. v. St. Louis Transit Co., 137
Fed. Rep. 82; General Elec. Co. v. Continental Fibre Co.,
256 Fed. Rep. 660, 663.
Abandonment of an invention completed and reduced
to practice by the filing of an allowable application for
patent therefor inures to the benefit of the public, and not
to the benefit of a later inventor. Ex parte Gosselin, 97
0. G. 2977 (2979); In re M illett, 18 App. D. Q. 186 (96 0.
G. 1241).
Patent Office Rules 31, 68,_77 and 171, which provide
for amendment of applications within one year from the
date of the last official action of the Patent Office, all
relate to abandonment ,of applications.
The statutes relating to constructive abandonment of
inventions in all cases fix a limit of two years except when
the application is filed in a foreign country more than one
year before application is made in this country. Rev.
Stats., §§ 4886, 4887, 4897, 4920.
The rule as to constructive abandonment in the case of
applications for reissue, generally, though not invariably,

-

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Argument for Respondent.

252 U. S.

fixes a limit of two years. Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S.
350; Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354; Wollensak v.
Reiher, 115 U. S. 101.
The ruling in Rowntree v. Sloan, that failure of an applicant to make the claim of an unexpired patent within one
year from the date of such patent estops the applicant to
make such claim at all, is arbitrary because it has no
foundation in law, and is illogical because, if there be any
ground for invoking the doctrine of estoppel in such a
case, there is no reason why it should apply in one year
rather than at any other time.
There can be no question of estoppel as between petitioners and respondent because the basic conditions to
create an estoppel do not exist. There was no privity of
relationship between the parties. Petitioners were unaware of respondent's application for patent. Respondent
was not misled to his injury by any act or failure of
petitioners.
It was not petitioners' duty, but the Commissioner's,
to ascertain if there was an interference, and to declare it.
Ewing v. Fowler Car Co., supra; Rev. Stats., § 4904; Bigelow on Estoppel, 5th ed., pp. 26-28, 585, 594-597.
Laches or estoppel in this case is not ancillary to the
question of priority.
The question of actual priority of invention having
been foreclosed by respondent's admission, the Court of
Appeals was without jurisdiction on an interference
appeal to hear and determine petitioners' right to a patent. Norling v. Hayes, 37 App. D. C. 169; Lowry v. Allen,
supra.
Mr. Paul Synnestvedt, with whom Mr. H. L. Lechner
was on the briefs, for respondent:
While the patenting of an invention is purely statutory,
the statute has been uniformly construed in the light of the
underlying purpose of the patent system-the, promotion

CHAPMAN v. WINTROATH'
126.

Argument for Respondent.

of the progress of science and the useful arts. Kendall v.
Winsor, 21 How. 322, 328.
Diligence is an axiomatic requirement; and there is a
time limit within which claims to a particular invention
shown, but not claimed, in an application may be added.
Ex parte Dyson, 232 0. G. 755; In re Fritts, 45 App. D.
C. 211; Victor Talking Mach. Co. v. Edison, 229 Fed. Rep.
999; Christensen v. Noyes, 15 App. D. C. 94; Bechman v.
Wood, id., 484; Skinner v. Carpenter, 36 id., 178.
The statute itself lays down a pre-application rule of
diligence and a post-application rule. Rev. Stats., §§ 4886,
4887, and § 4894.
Where an applicant has an application, showing, inter
alia, but not at any time claiming, a particular feature,
pending in the Patent Office for years, he should proceed
at least within one year after the issuance of a rival patent
for the same invention, to copy claims therefrom for the
purpose of an interference, by analogy with Rev. Stats.,

§ 4894.
The issue of a patent is constructive notice to the
public of its contents. Boyden v. Burke, 14 How. 575-83.
If petitioners' divisional application be considered independently of the present application, they are out of
court in their own admission of a prior public use of more
than two years. If considered as a continuation of the
parent application, post-application rules of diligence
apply and they are guilty of lack of diligence.
Petitioners were never "regularly" prosecuting an
application for the invention, and there is no basis in the
statute or authority for the proposition that the mere
presence of a drawing or description of a feature in an
application constitutes a reduction to practice thereof
such as will defeat a later inventor but earlier patentee.
Pittsburgh Water Heater Co. v. Beler Water Heater Co.,
228 Fed. Rep. 683; Saunders v. Miller, 33 App. D. C.
456.

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

Mr. Melville Church, by leave of court, filed a brief as
aminus curice.
Mr. John C. Pennie, Mr. Dean S. Edmonds, Mr. Charles
J. O'Neill and Mr. Helge Murray, by leave of court, filed
a brief as amici curim.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1909 Mathew T. Chapman and Mark C. Chapman
filed an application for a patent on an "improvement in
deep well pumps." The mechanism involved was complicated, the specification intricate and long, and the
clahs numbered thirty-four. The application met with
unusual difficulties in the Patent Office, and, although it
had been regularly prosecuted, as required by law and the
rules of the Office, it was still pending without having
been passed to patent in 1915, when the controversy in
this case arose.
In 1912 John A. Wintroath filed an application for a
patent on "new and useful improvements in well mechanism," which was also elaborate and intricate, with
twelve combination claims, but a patent was issued upon
it on November 25, 1913.
Almost twenty months later, on July 6, 1915, the Chapmans ,filed a divisional application in which the claims of
the Wintroath patent were copied, and on this application
such proceedings were had in the Patent Office that on
March 21, 1916, an interference was declared between it
and the Wintroath patent.
The interference proceeding related to the combination
of a fluid-operated bearing supporting a downwardly ex-,
tending shaft, and auxiliary bearing means for sustaining
any resultant downward or upward thrust of such shaft.
It is sufficiently described in count three of the notice of
interference:

CHAPMAN v. WINTROATH.
126.

Opinion of the Court.

"3. In deep well pumping mechanism, the combination with pump means including a pump casing located
beneath the surface of the earth and rotary impeller means
in said casing, of a downwardly extending power shaft
driven from above and adapted to drive said impeher
means, a fluid operated bearing co6peratively to support
said shaft, said fluid operated bearing being located substantially at the top of said shaft so that the shaft deper-ds
from the fluid bearing and by its own weight tends to draw
itself into a substantially straight vertical line, means for
supplying fluid under pressure to said fluid bearing inlependently'of the action of the pump means, auxiliary bearing means for sustainin.g any resultant downward thrust
of said power shaft and auxiliary bearing means for sustaining any resultant upward thrust of said power shaft."
Wintroath admits that the invention thus in issue was
clearly disclosed in the parent application of the Chapmans, but he contends that their divisional application,
claiming the discovery, should be denied, because of their
delay of nearly twenty months in filing, after the publication of his patent, and the Chapmans, while asserting that
their parent application fully disclosed the invention involved, admit that the combination of the Wintroath patent was not specifically claimed in it.
Pursuant to notice and the rules of the Patent Office,
Wintroath, on April 27, 1916, filed a statement, declaring that he conceived the invention contained in the claims
of his patent "on orabout the first day of October, 1910,"
and thereupon, because this date was subsequent to the
Chapman filing date, March 10, 1909, the Examiner of
Interferences notified him that judgment on the record
would be entered against him unless he showed cause
within thirty days why such action should not be taken.
Within the rule day Wintroath filed a motion for judgment in his favor "on the record," claiming that conduct
on the part of the Chapmans was shown, which. estopped

-134

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

them from making the claims involved in the interference
and which amounted to an abandonment of any rights in
respect thereto which they may once have had. The Chapmans contended that such a motion for judgment could
not properly be allowed. "until an- opportunity had been
grauted for the introduction of evidence." But the Examiner of Interferences, without hearing evidence, entered judgment on the record in favor of Wintroath, and
awarded priority to him, on the ground that the failure
of the Chapmans to make claims corresponding to the interference issue for more than one year after the date of the
patent to Wintroath, constituted equitable laches which
estopped them from successfully making such claims.
This holding, based on the earlier decision by the Court
of Appeals in Rowntree v. Sloan, 45 App. D. C. 207, was
affirmed by the Examiner in Chief, but was reversed, by
the Commissioner of Patents, whose decision, in turn, was
reversed by the Court of Appeals in the judgment which
we are reviewing.
In its decision the Court of Appeals holds that an .inventor whose parent application discloses, but does not
claim, an invention which conflicts with ihat of a later
unexpired patent, may file a second application making
conflicting claims, in order to have the question of priority. of invention between the two determined in an interference proceeding, but only within one year from the
date of the patent, and that longer delay in filing constitutes equitable laches, which bars the later application.
By this holding the court substitutes a one-year rule for
a two-year rule which had prevailed in the Patent Office
for many years before the Rowntree decision, rendered in
1916, and the principal reason given for this important
change is that the. second application -should be regarded
as Aubstantially an amendment to the parent application,
and that it would b " inequitable to permit a longer time
for filing it than thew one year allowed by Rev. Stats.,

CHAPMAN ,. 'WINTROATH.
126.

Opinion of the Court.

§ 4894, for further prosecution of an application after office
action thereon.
The question presented for decision is, whether this
conclusion is justifiable and sound, and the answer must
be found in the statutes and rules of the Patent Office
made pursuant to statute, prescribing the action necessary to be taken in order to obtain a patent,-for the whole
subject is one of statutory origin and regulation.
The statute which is fundamental to all others in our
patent law, (Rev. Stats., § 4886, as amended March 3,
1897, c. 391, 29 Stat. 692,) provides with respect to the
effect of a United States patent upon the filing of a subsequent application for a patent on the same discovery,
which is all we are concerned with here, that any discoverer of a patentable invention, not known or used by others
in this country, before his invention or discovery, may
file an application for a patent upon it, at any time within
two years after it may have been patented in this country.
Such a prior patent is in no sense a bar to the granting of
a second patent for the same invention to an earlier inventor, provided that his application is filed not more
than two years after the date of the conflicting patent.
The applicant may not be able to prove that he was the
first inventor but the statute gives him two years in which
to claim that he was and in which to secure the institution
of an interference proceeding in which the issue of priority between himself and the patentee may be determined
in a prescribed manner.
This section, unless it has been modified by other
statutes or, in effect, by decisions of the courts, is plainly
not reconcilable with the decision of the Court of Appeals,
and should rule it. Has it been so modified?
The section of the Revised Statutes dealing with inventions previously patented in a foreign' country (Rev.
Stats., § 4887, as amended March 3, 1903, c. 1019, 32 Stat.
1225), provides that no patent shall Pe granted on an

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

application for a patent if the invention has been patented
in this or any foreign country more than two years before
the date of the actual filing of the application in this
country.
Section 4897 of the Revised Statutes (16 Stat. 202, c.
230, § 35), in dealing with the renewal of an application
in case of failure to pay the final fee within six months of
notice that a patent had been allowed, provides that
another application may be made for the invention "the
same as in the case of an original application." But such
application must "be made within two years after the allowance of the original application."
And in Rev. Stats., § 4920, providing for pleadings and
proofs in infringement suits it is provided that When properly pleaded and noticed the defendant may prove in defense that the patent declared on had been patented prior
to the plaintiff's supposed invention "or more than two
years prior to his appliation for a patent therefor," and
also that the subject-matter of the patent "had been in
public use or on sale in this country for more than two
years" before the plaintiff's application for a patent.
Thus through all of these statutes runs the time limit
of two years for the filing of an application, there is no
modification in any of them of the like provision in Rev.
Stats., § 4886, as amended, and no distinction is made between an original and a later or a divisional application,
with respect to this filing right.
A brief reference to the decisions will show that until
the Rowntree Case, the courts had left the filing right under
Rev. Stats., §4886, as untouched as the statutes thus had
left it.
There is no suggestion in the record that the original
application of the Chapmans was not prosecuted strictly
as required by the statutes and the rules of the Patent
Office and therefore, it is settled, their rights may not be
denied or diminished on the ground that such delay may

CHAPMAN v. WINTROATH.
126.

137

Opinion of the Court.

have been prejudicial to either public or private interests.
"A party seeking a right under the patent statutes may
avail himself of all their provisions, and the courts may
not deny him the benefit of a single one. These are questions not of natural but of purely statutory right. Congress, instead of fixing seventeen, had the power to fix
thirty years as the life of a patent. No court can disregard any statutory provisions in respect to these matters
on the ground that in its judgment they are unwise or
prejudicial to the interests of the public." United States
v. American Bell Telephone Co., 167 U. S. 224, 247.
In re-issue cases, where there was no statutory time prescribed for the making of an application for the correction
of a patent, and although unusual diligence is required in
such cases, this court adopted the two-year rule as reasonable by analogy to the law of public use before an application for a patent. Mahn v. Harwood, 112 U. S. 354,
363; Wollensak v. Reiher, 115 U. S. 96, 101.
To this we must add that not only have later or divisional applications not been dealt with in a hostile spirit
by the courts, but, on the contrary, designed as they are
to secure the patent to the first discoverer, they have been
favored to the extent that where an invention clearly disclosed in an application, as in this case, is not claimed
therein but is subsequently claimed in another application,
the original will be deemed a constructive reduction of
the invention to practice and the later one will be given the
filing date of the earlier, with all of its priority of right.
Smith & Griggs MaNufacturing Co. v. Sprague, 123 U. S.
249, 250; Von Recklinghausen v. Dempster, 34 App. D. C.
474, 476, 477.
These, a few from many, suffice to show that prior to
the Rowntree Case, the decisions did not tend to modification of the statutory two-year rule.
The Court of Appeals recognizes all this law as applicable to an original application, but it finds warrant for

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

cutting the time limit to one year in the case of later applications in three reasons, viz: Because it is inequitable
to allow so long a time as two years for filing a new application, claiming a discovery for which a patent has issued;
because such a time allowance is contrary to public policy,
as unduly extending the patent monopoly if the new application should prevail, and, finally and chiefly, as we
have pointed out, because, regarding such a later application as substantially an amendment to the original application the court discovers, in analogy to the time
allowed by statute for amendment to applications (Rev.
Stats., § 4894), a reason for holding that the failure for
more than one year to make a later, in this case a divisional, application, amounts to fa .al laches.
However meritorious the first two of these grounds may
seem to be they cannot prevail against the providons 6f
the statutes (United States v. American Bell Telephone Co.,
supra), and the third does not seem to us persuasive because of the difference in the kind of notice which is given
to the applicant under Rev. Stats., § 4894, and that given
him when a patent is issued conflicting with his application.
The one-year provision of Rev. Stats., § 4894, as
amended March 3, 1897, c. 391, 29 Stat. 693, is that an
applicant for a patent, who shall fail to prosecute his application within one year after Patent Office action thereon,
"of which notice shall have been given " him, shall be
regarded as having abandoned his application, unless the
Commissioner of Patents shall be satisfied that such delay was unavoidable. But when a conflict between inventions disclosed in applications escapes the attention of
the Patent Office Examiners, Rev. Stats., § 4904, and a
patent is issued, with claims conflicting with the disclosures of a pending application, the applicant receives only
such notice of the conflict as he is presumed to derive from
the publication of the patent. In the one case the notice

CHAPMAN v. WINTROATH.
126.

Dissent.

is actual and specific, in the other it is indefinite and constructive only. When the great number of patents constantly being issued is considered, many of them of a voluminous and complicated character, such as we have in
this case, with many and variously worded claims, such
an implied notice must necessarily be precarious and indefinite to a degree which may well have been thought to be
a sufficient justification for allowing the longer two-year
period to inventors who must, at their peril, derive from
such notice their knowledge of any conflict with their applications.
As has been pointed out, the Examiner of Interferencesdid not permit the introduction of any evidence with re-.
spect to laches or abandonment and the Court of Appeals
rests its judgment, as he did, wholly upon the delay of the
Chapmans in filing their divisional application for more
than one year after the Wintroath patent was issued, as
this appeared "on the face of the record." While not
intending to intimate that there may not be abandonment
which might bar an application within the two-year period
allowed for filing, yet upon this discussion of the statutes
and decisions, we cannot doubt that upon the case disclosed in this record, the Chapmans were within their
legal rights in filing their divisional application at any
time within two years after the publication of the Wintroath patent, and therefore the judgment of the Court of
Appeals must be
Reversed.
MR. JusTIcE MCREYNOLDS dissents.

