PENN MUTUAL CO. v. LEDERER.
Opinion of the Court.

PENN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
LEDERER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 499.

Argued March 22, 23, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.

The Income Tax Law of October 3, 1913, c. 16, 38 Stat. 172, j II G. (b),
provides that life insurance companies "shall not include as income in
any year such portion of any actual premium received from any individual policyholder as shall have been paid back or credited to
such individual policyholder, or treated as an abatement of premium
of such individual policyholder, within such year," and that "there
be deducted from

gross income

.

.

.

the sums other than-

dividends paid within the year on policy and annuity contracts."
Held, that money derived by a mutual company from redundancy
of premiums paid in previous years, and paid to policyholders during the tax year as dividends in cash, not applied in abatement or
reduction of their current premiums, should not be deducted from
premium receipts in computing gross income. P 527.
No aid in construing an act of Congress can be derived from the legislative history of another passed six years later. P. 537.'
258 Fed. Rep. 81, affirmed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper for petitioner.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Friersonfor respondent.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDwEIS delivered the opinion of the
court.
The Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company, a purely
mutual legal reserve company which issues level-premium

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

insurance, brought this action in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to
recover $6,865.03 which was assessed and collected as an
income tax of one per cent. upon the sum of $686,503,
alleged to have been wrongly included as a part of its
gross income' and hence also of its net income, for the
period from March 1, 1913, to December 31, 1913. The
latter sum equals the aggregate of the amounts paid during
that period by the company to its policyholders in cash
dividends which were not used by them during that period
in payment of premiums. The several amounts making
up this aggregate represent mainly a part of the so-called
redundancy in premiums paid by the respective policyholders in some previous year or years. They are, in a
sense, a repayment 'of that part of che premium previously
p:dd which experience has proved was in excess of the
amount which had been assumed would be required to
meet the policy obligations (ordinarily termed losses) or
the legal reserve and the expense of conducting the business.' The District Court allowed recovery of the full
amount with interest. (247 Fed. Rep. 559.) The Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, holding that
nothing was recoverable except a single small item, reversed the judgment and awarded a new trial. (258 Fed.
Rep. 81.) A writ of certiorari from this court was then
allowed. (250 U. S. 656.)
Whether the plaintiff is entitled to recover depends
wholly upon the construction to be given certain provisions in § II G. (b) of the Revenue Act of October 3, 1913,
c. 16, 38 Stat. 114, 172, 173. The act enumerates among
IThe manner in which mutual level-premium life insurance companies conduct their business, and the nature and application of
dividends are fully set forth in Mutual Benefit Life Ins. Co. v. Herold,
198 Fed. Rep. 199; Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. v. Eaton, 218
Fed. Rep. 188; Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Eaton, 218 Fed.

Rep. 206.

PENN MUTUAL CO. v. LEDERER.
523.

Opinion of the Court.

the corporations upon which the income tax is imposed,
"every insurance company" other than "fraternal
beneficiary societies, orders, or associations operating
under the lodge system or for the exclusive benefit of the
members of a fraternity itself operating under the lodge
system." It provides (G. (b) pp. 172-174) how the net
income of insurance companies shall be ascertained for
purposes of taxation, prescribing what shall be included
to determine the gross income of any year, and also
specifically what deductions from the ascertained gross
income shall be made in order to determine the net income
upon which the tax is assessed. Premium receipts are a
part of the gross income to be accounted for.
In applying to insurance companies the system of income taxation in which the assessable net income is to be
ascertained by making enumerated deductions from the
gross income (including premium receipts) Congress
naturally provided how, in making the computation, 1
repayment of the redundancy in the premium should be
dealt with. In a mutual company, whatever the field of its
operation, the premium exacted is necessarily greater than
the expected cost of the insurance, as the redundancy in
the premium furnishes the guaranty fund out of which
extraordinary losses may be met, while in a stock company
they may be met from the capital stock subscribed. It is
of the essence of mutual insurance that the excess in the
premium over the actual cost as later ascertained shall be
returned to the policyholder. Some payment to the
1 The percentage of the redundancy to the premium varies, from

year to year, greatly, in the several fields of insurance, and likewise in
the same year in the several companies in the same field. Where the
margin between the probable losses and those reasonably possible is
very large, the return premiums rise often to 90 per cent. or more of I he
premium paid. This is true of the manufacturers' mutual fire insurance
companies of New England. See Report Massachusetts Insuraitce
Commissioner (1913), vol. I, p. 16.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

policyholder representing such excess is ordinarily made
by every mutual company every year; but the so-called
repayment or dividend is rarely made within the calendar
year in which the premium (of which it is supposed to be
the unused surplus) was paid. Congress treated the socalled repayments or dividends in this way (p. 173):
(a) Mutual fire companies "shall not return as income
any portion of the premium deposits returned to their
policyholders."
(b) Mutual marine companies "sha be entitled to
include in deductions from gross income amounts repaid to
policyholders on account of premiums previously paid by
them and interest paid upon such-amounts between the
ascertainment thereof and the payment thereof."
(c) Life insurance companies (that is both stock and
strictly mutual) "shall not include as income in any year
such portion of any actual premium received from any
individual policyholder as shall have been paid back or
.credited to such individual policyholder, or treated as an
abatement of premium of such individual policyholder,
within such year."
(d) For all insurance companies, whatever their field of
operation, and whether stock or mutual, the act provides
that there be deducted from gross income "the net addition, if any, required by law to be made within the year to
reserve funds and the sums other than dividends paid
within the year on policy and annuity contracts."
The Government contends, in substance, for the rule
that in figuring the gross income of life insurance companies, there shall be taken the aggregate of the year's net
premium receipts made up separately for each policyholder.1 The Penn Mutual Company contends for the
1

A separate account is kept by the company with each policyholder.

In that account there is entered each year the charges of the premiums
payable and all credits either for cash payments or by way of credit of
dividends, or by way of abatement of premium.

PENN MUTUAL CO. v. LEDERER.
523.

Opinion of the Court.

rule that in figuring the gross income there shall be taken
the aggregate full premiums received by the company less
the aggregate of all dividends paid by it to any policyholder by credit upon a premium or by abatement of a
premium and also of all dividends whatsoever paid to any
policyholder, in cash whether applied in payment of a
premium or not. The non-inclusion clause, (c) above,
excludes from gross income those premium receipts which
were actually or in effect paid by applying dividends.
The company seeks to graft upon the clause so restricted a
provision for what it calls non-including, but which in fact
is deducting, all cash dividends not so applied. In support
of this contention the company relies mainly, not upon the
words of the statute, but upon arguments which it bases
upon the nature of mutual insurance, upon the supposed
analogy of the rules prescribed in the statute for mutual
fire and marine companies and upon the alleged requirements of consistency.
First: The reason for the particular provision made by
Congress seems to be clear: Dividends may be made, and
by many of the companies have been made largely, by way
of abating or reducing the amount of the renewal premium. 1 Where the dividend is so made the actual premium receipt of the year is obviously only the reduced
amount. But, as a matter of bookkeeping, the premium is
'The dividend provision of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company involved in the Herold Case, supra, 198 Fed. Rep. 19, 204, was,
in part: "After this policy shall have been in force on3 year, each
year's premium subsequently paid shall be subject to :.leduction by
such dividend as may be apportioned by the directors." The dividend
provision in some of the participating policies involved in: the Con;
necdictd General Life Ins. Co. Case, supra, 218 Fed. Rep. 188, 192, was:
"Reduction of premiums as determined by the company will be made
annually beginning at the second year, or the insured may pay the full
premium and instruct the company to apply the amount of reduction
apportioned to him in any one of the following plans:" (Then follow
four plans.)

'0

dER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

entered at the full rate and the abatement (that is, the
amount by which it was reduced)'is entered as a credit.
The financial result both to the company and to the
policyholders is, however, exactly the same whether the
renewal premium is reduced by a dividend or whether the
renewal premium remains unchanged but is paid in part
either by a credit or by cash received as a dividend. And
the entries in bookkeeping would be substantially the
same. Because the several ways of paying a dividend are,
as between the company and the policyholder, financial
equivalents, Congress, doubtless, concluded to make the
incidents the same, also, as respects income taxation.
W'here the dividend was used to abate or reduce the full
or gross premium-the direction tQ eliminate from the
apparent premium receipts is aptly expressed by the
phrase "shall not include," used in clause (c) above.
Where the premium was left unchanged, but was paid in
part by a credit or cash derived from the dividend the
instruction would be more properly expressed by a direction to deduct those credits. Congress doubtless used the
words "shall not include" as applied also to these credits
because it eliminated them from the aggregate of taxable
premiums as being the equivalent of abatement of premiums.
That such was the intention of Congress is confirmed by
the history of the non-inclusion clause, (c) above. The
provision in the Revenue Act of' 1913, for taxing the income of insurance companies is in large part identical with
the provision for the special excise tax upon them imposed
by the Act of August 5, 1909, c. 6, § 38, 36 Stat. 112. By
the latter act the net income of insurance companies was,
also, to be ascertained by deducting from gross income
"sums other than dividends, paid within the year on
policy and annuity contracts"; but there was in that act
no non-inclusion clause whatsoever. The question arose
whether the provision in the Act of 1909, identical with (c)

PENN MUTUAL CO. v. LEDERER.
523.

.529

Opinion of the Court.

above, prevented using in the computation the reduced
renewal premiums instead of the full premiums, where the
reduction in the premium had been effected by means of
dividends. In Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. v. Herold,
198 Fed. Rep. 199, decided July 29, 1912, it was held that
the renewal premium as reduced by such dividends should
be used in bomputing the gross premium; and it was said
(p. 212) that dividends so applied in reduction of renewal
premiums "should not be confused with dividends declared in the case of a full-paid participating policy,
wherein the policyholder has no further premium payments to make. Such payments having been duly met,
the policy has become at once a contract of insurance and.
of investment. The holder participates in the profits and
income of the invested funds of the company." On writ
of error sued out by the Government the judgment entered in the District Court was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals on January 27, 1913, 201 Fed. Rep. 918;
but that court stated that it refrained from expressing any
opinion concernirg dividends on full-paid policies, saying
that it did so "not because we wish to suggest disapproval,
but merely because no opinion about these matters is
called for now, as they do not seem to be directly involved." The non-inclusion clause in the Revenue Act of
1913, (c) above, was doubtless framed to define what
amounts involved in dividends should be" non-included,"
or deducted, and thus to prevent any controversy arising
over the questions which had been raised under the Act of
1909.1 The petition for writ of certiorari applied for by
the Government was not denied by this court until
December 15, 1913, (231 U. S. 755), that is, after the
passage of the act.
1

Substantially the same questions were involved, also, in Connecticut General Life Ins. Co. v. Eaton, 218 Fed. Rep. 188, and Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Eaton, 218 Fed. Rep.' 206, in which decisions were not, however, reached until the following year.

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

,Second: It is argued that the nature of life insurance
dividends, is the same, whatever the disposition made of
them; and that Congress could not have intended to re-

lieve the companies from 'taxation to the extent that
dividends are applied in payment of premiums and to tax
them to the extent that dividends are not so applied. If
Congress is to. be assumed to have intended, in obedience
to the demands of consistency, that all dividends declared
under life insurance policies should be treated alike in
connection with income taxation regardless of their disposition, the rule of consistency would require deductions
more far-reaching than those now claimed by the company. Why allow so-balled non-inclusion of amounts
equal to the dividends paid in cash but not applied in
reduction of renewal premium and disallow so-called
non-inclusion of amounts equal to the dividends paid by a
credit representing amounts retained by the company for
accumulation or to be otherwise used for the policyholders' benefit? The fact is, that Congress has acted
with entire consistency in laying down the rule by which
in computing gross earnings certain amounts only are
excluded; but the company has failed to recognize what
the principle is which Congress has consistently applied.
The principle applied is that of basing the taxation on
receipts of net premiums, instead of on gross premiums.
The amount equal to the aggregate of certain dividends is
excluded, although they are dividends, because by reason
of their application the net premium receipts of the tax
are to that extent less. There is a striking difference
between an aggregate of individual premiums, each
reduced by means of dividends, and an aggregate of full
premiums, from which it is sought to deduct amounts paid
out by the company which have no relation whatever to
premiums received within the tax year but which relate
to some other premiums which may have been received
many years earlier. The difference between the two

PENN MUTUAL CO. t. LEDERER.
523.

Opinion of the Court.

cases is such as may well have seemed to Congress sufficient to justify the application of different rules of
taxation.
There is also a further significant difference. All life
insurance has in it the element of protection. That
afforded by fraternal beneficiary societies, as originally devised, had in it only the element of protection. There the
premiums paid by the member were supposed to be sufficient, and only sufficient, to pay the losses which will fall
during the current year; just as premiums in fire, marine, or
casualty insurance are supposed to cover only the losses of
the year or other term for which the insurance is written.
Fraternal life insurance has been exempted from all income
taxation; Congress having differentiated these societies, in
this respect as it had in others, from ordinary life insurance companies. Compare Supreme Council of the
Royal Arcanum v. Behrend, 247 U. S. 394. But in levelpremium life insurance, while the motive for taking it may
be mainly protection, the business is largely that of savings
investment. The premium is in the nature of a savings
deposit. Except where there are stockholders, the savings
bank pays back to the depositor his deposit with the
interest earned less the necessary expense of management.
The insurance company does the same, the difference
being merely that the savings bank undertakes to repay
to each individual depositor the whole of his deposit with
interest; while the life insurance company undertakes to
pay to each member of a class the average amount (regarding the chances of life and death); so that those who do not
reach the average age get more than they have deposited,
that is, paid in premiums (including interest) and those
who exceed the average age less than they deposited
(including interest). The dividend of a life insurance
company may be regarded as paying back part of these
deposits called premiums. The dividend is made possible
because the amounts paid in as premium have earned

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

more than it was assumed they would when the policy contract was made, or because the expense of conducting the
business was less than it was then assumed it would be or because the mortality, that is the deaths in the class to which
the policyholder belongs, proved to be less than had then
been assumed in fixing the premium rate. When for any
.or all of these reasons the net cost of the investment (that
is, the right to receive at death or at the endowment date
the agreed sum) has proved to be less than that for which
provision was made, the difference may be regarded either
as profit on the investment or as a saving in the expense of
the protection. When the dividend is applied in reduction
of the renewal premium, Congress might well regard the
element of protection as predominant and treat the reduction of the premium paid by means of a dividend as merely
a leksening of the expense of protection. But after the
policy is paid up, the element of investment predominates
and Congress might reasonably regard the dividend substan;;ially as profit on the investment.
The dividends, aggregating $686,503, which the Penn
Mutual Company insists should have been "non-included," or more properly deducted, from the gross income, were, in part, dividends on the ordinary limited
payment life policies which had been paid-up. There are
others which arose under policy contracts in which the
investment feature is more striking; for instance, the
Accelerative Endowment Policy or such special form- of
contract as the 25-year "6% Investment Bond" matured
and paid March, 1913, on which the policyholder received
besides dividends, interest and a "share of forfeitures."
In the latter, as in "Deferred Dividend" and other
sen-tontine policies, the dividend represents in part what
clearly could not be regarded as a repayment of excess
premium of the policyholder receiving the dividend. For
the "share of the forfeiture" which he receives is the share
of the redundancy in premium of other policyholders who

PENN MUTUAL CO. v. LEDERER.
523.

Opinion of the Court.

did not persist in premium payments to the end of the
contract period.
Third: The non-inclusion clause here in question, (c)
above, is found in § II G. (b) in juxtaposition to the provisions, concerning mutual fire and mutual marine companies, clauses (a) and (b) above. The fact that in three
separate clauses three different rules are prescribed by
Congress for the treatment of redundant premiums in the
three classes of insurance, would seem to be conclusive evidence that Congress acted with deliberation and intended
to differentiate between them in respect to income taxation. But the company, ignoring the differences in the
provisions concerning fire and marine companies respectively, insists that mutual life insurance rests upon the
same principles as mutual fire and marine and that as the
clauses concerning fire and marine companies provide specifically for non-inclusion in or deduction from gross income of all portions of premiums returned, Congress must
have intended to apply the same rule to all. Neither
premise nor conclusion is sound.
Mutual fire, mutual marine and mutual life insurance
companies are analogous in that each performs the service
called insuring wholly for the benefit of their policyholders
and not like stock insurance companies in part for the
benefit of persons who as stockholders have provided
working capital on which they expect to receive dividends
representing profits from their investment. In other
words, these mutual companies are alike in that they are
cobperative enterprises. But in respect to the service
performed fire and marine companies differ fundamentally,
as above pointed out, from legal reserve life companies.
The thing for which a fire or marine insurance premium is
paid is protection, which ceases at the end of the term. If
after the end of the term a part of the premium is returned
to the policyholder, it is not returned as something purchased with the premium, but as a part of the premium

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

which was not required to pay for the protection; that is,
the expense was less than estimated. On the other hand,
the service performed in level-premium life insurance is
both protection and investment. Premiums paid-not in
the tax year, but perhaps a generation earlier-have
earned so much for the coSperators, that the company is
able to pay to each not only the agreed amount but also
additional sums called dividends; and have earned these
additional sums, in part at least, by transactions not
among the members, but with others; as by lending the
money of the co6perators to third persons who pay a larger
rate of interest than it was assumed would be received on
investments. The fact that the investment resulting in
accumulation or dividend is made by a co6perative as
distinguished from a capitalistic concern does not prevent
the amount thereof being properly deemed a profit on the
investment. Nor does the fact that the profit was earned
by a co6perative concern afford basis for the argument
that Congress did not intend to tax the profit. Congress
exempted certain co6perative enterprises from all income
taxation, among others, mutual savings banks; but, with
the exception of fraternal beneficiary societies, it imposed
in express terms such taxation upon "every insurance
company." 1
The purpose of Congress to differentiate between mutual fire and marine insurance companies on the one hand
and life insurance companies on the other is further manifested by this: The provision concerning return premiums
in computation of the gross income of fire and marine insurance companies is limited in terms to mutual companies,
whereas the non-inclusion clause, (c) above, relating to life
'The alleged unwisdom and injustice of taxing mutual life insurance
companies while mutual savings banks were exempted had been
strongly pressed upon Congress. Briefs and statements filed with
Senate Committee on Finance on H. R. 3321-Sixty-third Congress,
first session, Vol. 3, pp. 1955-2094.

PENN MUTUAL CO. v. LEDERER.
523.

Opinion of the Court.

insurance companies, applies whether the company be a
stock or a mutual one. There is good reason to believe
that the failure to differentiate between stock and mutual
life insurance companies was not inadvertent. For while
there is a radical difference between stock fire and marine
companies and mutual fire and marine companies, both in
respect to the conduct of the business and in the results to
policyholders, the participating policy commonly issued
by the stock life insurance company is, both in rights conferred and in financial results, substantially the same as the
policy issued by a purely mutual life insurance company.
The real difference between the two classes of life companies as now conducted lies in the legal right of electing
directors and officers. In the stock company stockholders
have that right; in the mutual companies, the policyholders who are the members of the corporation.
The Penn Mutual Company, seeking to draw support
for its argument from legislation subsequent to the Revenue Act of 1913, points also to the fact that by the Act
of September 8, 1916, c. 463, 39 Stat. 756, 768, § 12, subsection second, subdivision c, the rule for computing gross
income there provided for mutual fire insurance companies
was made applicable to mutual employers' liability,
mutual workmen's compensation and mutual casualty
insurance companies. It asserts that ,thereby Congress
has manifested a settled policy to treat the taxable income
of mutual concerns as not including premium refunds; and
that if mutual life insurance companies are not permitted
to "exclude" them, these companies will be the only
mutual concerns which are thus discriminated against.
Casualty insurance, in its various forms, like fire and
marine insurance, provides only protection, and the premium is wholly an expense. if such later legislation could
be considered in construing the Act of 1913, the conclusion
to be drawn from it would be clearly the opposite of that
urged. The later act would tend to show that Congress

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

persists in its determination to differentiate between life
and other forms of insurance.
Fourth: It is urged that in order to sustain the interpretation given to the non-inclusion clause by the Circuit
Court of Appeals (which was, in effect, the interpretation
set forth above) it is necessary to interpolate in the clause
the words "within such year," as shown in italics in
brackets, thus:
"And life insurance companies shall not include as income in any year such portion of any actual premium
received from any individual policyholder [within such
year] as shall have been paid back or credited to such
individual policyholder, or treated as an abatement of
premium of such individual policyholder, within such

year."
What has been said above shows that no such interpolation is necessary to sustain the construction given by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. That court did not hold that
the permitted non-inclusion from the year's gross income
is limited to that portion of the premium received within
the year which, by reason of a dividend, is paid back within
the same year. What the court held was that the noninclusion is limited to that portion of the premium which,
although entered on the books as received, was not actually received, within the year, because the full premium
was, by means of the dividend, either reduced, or otherwise wiped out to that extent. Nor does the Government
contend that any portion of a premium, ;not received
within the tax year, shall be included ifi computing the
year's gross income. On the other hand what the company is seeking is not to have "non-included" a part of the
premiums which were actually received within the year, or
which appear, as matter of bookkeeping to have been
received but actually were not. It is seeking to have the
aggregate of premiums actually received within the year
reduced by an amount which the company paid out within

'ENN
523.

MUTUAL CO. v. LEDERER.
Opinion of the Court.

the year; and which it paid out mainly on account of
premiums received long before the tax year. What it
seeks is not a non-inclusion of amounts paid in-but a
deduction of amounts paid out.
If the terms of the non-inclusion clause, (c) above,
standing alone, permitted of a doubt as to its proper construction, the doubt would disappear when it is read in
connection with the deduction clause, (d) above. The
deduction there prescribed is of "the sums other than
dividends paid within the year on policy and annuity
contracts." This is tantamount to a direction that dividends shall not be deducted. It was argued that the
dividends there referred to are "commercial" dividends
like those upon capital stock; and that those here involved
are dividends of a different character. But the dividends
which the deduction clause says, in effect, shall not be
deducted, are the very dividends here in question, that is
dividends "on policy and annuity contracts." None such
may, be deducted by any insurance company except as
expressly provided for in the act, in clauses quoted above,
(a) (b) and (c). That is, clauses (a) (b) and (c) are, in
effect, exceptions to the general exclusion of dividends
from the permissible deductions as prescribed in clause
(d) above.
In support of the company's contention that the interpolation of the words "within the year" is necessary in
order to support the construction given to the act by the
Circuit Court of Appeals we are asked to consider the
legislative history of thq Revenue Act of 1918 (enacted
February 24, 1919, c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057); and specifically
to the fact that in the bill as introduced in, and passed by
the House, the corresponding section (233 (a)) contained
the words "within the taxable year" and that these words
were stricken out by the Conference Committee (Report
No. 1037, 65th Cong., 3d sess.) The legislative history of
an act may, where the meaning of the words used is doubt-

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S,

ful, be resorted to as an aid to construction. Caminettiv.
United States, 242 U. S. 470, 490. But no aid could possibly be derived from the legislative history of another act

passed nearly six years after the one in question.. Further
answer to the argument based on the legislative history of
the later act would, therefore, be inappropriate.

We find no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals.

It is

Affirmed.

ESTATE OF P. D. BECKWITH, INC. v. COMMISSIONER OF PATENTS.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
No. 178. Argued January 23, 1920.-Decided April 19, 1920.
The Trade-Mark Registration Act declares (§ 5) that no mark by
which the goods of the owner may be distinguished from other
goods of the same class shall be refused registration on account of
the nature of such mark, with certain exceptions, and with the proviso that no mark shall be registered which consists merely in words
or devices which are descriptive of the goods with which they-are
used, or of the character or quality of such goods. Held, that a
mark consisting of a fanciful design in combination with certain
words forming part of it was not debarred from registration by reason
of the fact that some of the words-"Moistair Heating System"were desciiptive; that to require the deletion of such descriptive
words because of their descriptive quality as a condition to registration of the mark, was erroneous; and that the act would be fully
complied with if registration were permitted with an appropriate
declaration on the part of the applicant disclaiming any right to the
exclusive use of the descriptive words except in the setting and relation in which they appeared in the drawing, descr .'tionand samples
filed with the application. P. 543.
While there is no specific provision for disclaimers in the statute, the
practice of using them is approved. P. 545.

