OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Syllabus.

252 U. S.

recent origin, related to "gold mines" which had been
worked for many years.
The only real divergence of opinion respecting the section has been as to whether it is available in an adverse
suit, such as these are, or is addressed merely to the land
department. Some of the courts have held it available
only in proceedings in the department, McCowan v.
Maclay, 16 Montana, 234, and others in greater number
have held it available in adverse suits. Upton v. Santa
Rita Mining Co., supra, and cases cited. The latter view
has received the approval of this court. Reavis v. Fianza,
supra; Belk v. Meagher, supra.
We conclude that the defendant was not entitled to any
instruction whereby he could receive the benefit of ยง 2332
in the absence of a discovery, and therefore that the
District Court rightly refused to give the one in question.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the instruction
should have been given, and in this we think it erred.
Judgments of Circuit Court of Appeals reversed.
Judgments of District Court affirmed.

PANAMA RAILROAD COMPANY v. TOPPIN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 147.

Argued January 16, 1920.-Decided March 15, 1920.

By the laws of Panama, a railroad company is liable for personal injuries resulting from the criminal negligence of its servant in running
an engine at a rate prohibited by the Panama Police Code. P. 310.
The rule of respondeat superior applies in Panama, in such cases, and
due care in selecting the servant is not a defense for the railroad
company. P. 311.

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. TOPPIN.
308.

Opinion of the Court.

In Panama, under Civil Code, Art. 2341, as well as in the Canal Zone,
damages for physical pain are allowable in a personal injury case.
P. 313. Panam'aR. R. Co. v. Bosse, 249 U. S. 41.
250 Fed. Rep. 989, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frank Feuille and Mr. Walter F. Van Dame, for
plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. Wm. C. Maclntyre, with whom Mr. W. C. Todd
and Mr. T. C. Hinckley were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE :BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the

court.
Toppin was struck by a locomotive of the Panama
Railroad Company while riding a horse in the City of
Colon. He sued the company for damages in the District
Court of the Canal Zone, alleging negligence, and recovered a verdict. The judgment entered thereon was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit (250 Fed. Rep. 989), and the case is here on writ
of error.
The main contentions of the company are here, as in
Panama R. R. Co. v. Bosse, 249 U. S. 41, that the trial
court erred in holding applicable the rule of respondeat
superior and the rule permitting recovery for physical
pain suffered. The important difference in the two cases
is this: There the accident occurred in the Canal Zone;
here, in the Republic of Panama. The company insists
that the Bosse Case is not controlling, because the questions affecting liability must here be determined by the
law of that Republic,-the place where the accident
occurred. Slater v. Mexican National R. R. Co., 194 U.
S. 120; Cuba R. R. Co. v. Crosby, 222 U. S. 473. The law

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

of Panama is pleaded by both parties and evidence thereon
was introduced by both; but we are not limited to this
evidence, as they agree that we may take judicial notice
of the law of Panama existing February 26, 1904, when
the Canal Treaty was proclaimed, and that, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, the law then prevailing
there will be presumed to have continued in force.
.First: The company contends that the jury should have
been instructed that under the law of Panama the company was not liable if the accident resulted from a criminal
act of its employees, there being evidence that it was due
to running the locomotive at a rate :of speed prohibited
under penalty by the Police Code of Panama. That code,
known as Ordinance No. 87 of the year 1896, provides
(Articles .488, 489):
"When a tramway crosses a town, as well as when it
passes by a gate or viaduct, it shall not travel at a greater
speed than that of a wagon drawn by horses at a moderate trot; in case of an infraction the conductor or the
administrator of the company subsidiarily shall pay a
fine of .10 to 100 pesos, without prejudice to the responsibility, civil or penal, to which he may be subjected by
reason of the damage, fault or tort ... . "
"This article
.
shall be applied to railroads
when they enter cities or towns."
The Panama Law, No. 62, of 1887, had provided in
Article 5:
"Railroad companies are responsible for the wrongs
and injuries which are caused to persons and properties
by reason (if
the service of said railroads and which are
imputable to want of care, neglect, or violation of the
respective police regulations which shall be issued by the
government as soon as the law is promulgated."
And Article 2341 ol the Civil Code provides:
"He who shall have been guilty of an offense or fault,,
which has caused another damage, is obliged to repair it,

PANAMA R. R. CO. v. TOPPIN.
308.

Opinion of the Court.

without prejudice to the principal penalty which the law
imposes for the fault or offense committed."
It would seem clear from a reading of these provisions
that the company would not be relieved from liability in
damages for injuries resulting from the negligence of its
employee, merely because the negligent act was also
punishable as a crime. And the Colombian authorities
to which our attention has been called tend to confirm this
construction.1 There seems to have been a rule of practice under the Colombian Judicial Code (Article 1501 2)
by which, if the civil action and the criminal action arising out of the same acts are not brought at the same time,
the civil action cannot be prosecuted until the conclusion
of the criminal action with the condemnation of the delinquent. But such rule obviously can have no application here; among other reasons because it refers to the
case where the same person is liable both civilly and criminally. Here it is the engineer who is liable criminally
under the Police Code and the company against whom
civil liability is being enforced.
Second: The company contends that by the law of
Panama it cannot be held liable for the injury caused by
the negligence of its engineer if it was careful in selecting
him, because the law of Panama does. not recognize liability without fault. This contention was made and rejected by the Supreme Court of Colombia in a case similar
to the case at bar.3 There suit was brought against the
empresario of a railway to recover for the loss of a house
by fire due to the negligent operation of a locomotive.
Cecilia Jaramillo de Cancino v. Railroad of the North.
Court of Justice of the Republic of Colombia, XIII Judicial
Nos. 652-653. Decided December 16, 1897.
' Ruperto Restrepo v. Sabana Railway Company. Supreme
Justice of the Republic of Colombia, III Judicial Gazette,
pp. 332-334. Decided July 19, 1892.
' Cancino v. Railroad of the North, supra, note 1.

Supreme
Gazette,
Court of
No. 353,

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1919.
Opinion of the Court.

252 U. S.

The court rested the liability upon Article 2347 of the
Civil Code, ' declaring that all doubt as to the existence of
the necessary dependency was removed by Article 5 of
Law 62 of 1887, which "without in any way mentioning
the dependents, employees, or workmen of railway enterprises, makes their empresarios responsible for the damages and injuries which they may cause to persons or to
property by reason of the service of the said roads." The
court continues: "and there is not in the record any, proof
whatever that any care or precaution, either on the part
of the empresario or the engineer, had been taken to prevent the fire, .the proof that the empresario on his part had
exercised much care in the selection of his employees not
being sufficient in the opinion of the court, because the
diligence and care here treated of, is that which ought to
have been exercised in order to prevent an injury that
could have been easily foreseen." 2 This case seems to
overrule in effect the principal authority to which the
plaintiff in error has referred us 3-- in fact, it is not unlikely that such was bhe object of Article 5 of Law 62 of
1887.
'Article 2347. "Every person is responsible not only for his own
actions, for the purpose of making good the damage, but for the act of
those who may be under his care.
"Thus, the father, and failing him the mother, is responsible for the
act of the minor children who live in the same house.
"Thus, the tutor or guardian is responsible for the conduct of the
pupil who lives under his protection and care.
"Thus, the husband is responsible for the conduct of his wife.
"Thus, the directors of colleges and schools respond for the acts of
students.while they are under their care, and artisans and empresarios
for the acts of their apprentices and dependents in like cases.
"But this responsibility will cease if with the exercise of the authority
and care which their respective characters prescribe for and confer on
them they could not prevent the act."
2 See also Panama R. R. Co. v. Bosse, 249 U. S. 41, 49.
* Ramirez v. Panama Railroad Company. Supreme Court of Justice

of Colombia, 1 Gaceta Judicial, No. 22, p. 170 (June 10, 1887).

THE ATLANTEN.
Syllabus.

308.

Third: The contention that the lower courts erred in
allowing recovery for physical pain was made and overruled in PanamaR. R. Co. v. Bosse, supra, p. 47. As the
decision there rested upon Article 2341 of the Civil Code
of Panama it is applicable whether the lex loci or the lex
fori should be held controlling as to such damages. Exception was also taken to the ruling that "if the plaintiff
has developed tuberculosis of the spine as a result of the
injuries received" the tuberculosis may be considered as
an element of damages. The instruction was given with
such explanations as to have been clearly unobjectionable.
Affirmed.

THE ATLANTEN. 1
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 171.

Argued March 10, 1920.-Decided March 22, 1920.

A charter party provided that, should any dispute arise, it should be
settled by referees, to be appointed by the captain and the charterers
respectively, whose decision, or that of an umpire, should be final,
and that any party attempting to revoke such submission to arbitration without permission of court should be liable to pay the estimated freight as liquidated damages. Held, that this could not
be construed to apply where there was not merely a dispute in carrying out the contract but a substantial repudiation of it, by the shipowner's declining to go on with the voyage unless the freight rate
were increased. P. 315.
A clause in a charter party: "Penalty for non-performance of this
agreement to be proved damages, not exceeding estimated amount
of freight," held inapplicable where the shipowner substantially
'The docket title of this case is Rederiaktiebolaget Atlanten v.
Aktieselskabet Korn-Og Foderstof Kompagniet.

