OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Syllabus.

-

244 U. S.

lation of the State we are unable to find the taking of
property without compensation, as is contended by the
plaintiffs in error.
As to the denial of the equal protection of the laws, this
court has frequently held that there is nothing in this
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent the
States from reasonable classification of subjects-for legislative action. This statute applies equally to all owners of
irrigation canals. The fact that it does not embrace canals
constructed for other uses and purposes does not make it
obnoxious to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Nebraska must be
Affirmed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. STONE ET AL.,
PARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE
NAME OF STONE & NOBLE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF CRAWFORD COUNTY,
STATE OF OHIO.

No. 254. Argued May 3, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.
In a limited liability contract governing an interstate shipment of live
stock, it was stipulated, in accordance with provisions duly published
and filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, that the connecting carrier's liability for damage should be conditional upon the
filing with its agent of a written notice of the shipper's claim within
five days from the removal of the stock from the cars. Held, reasonable. and, valid.,
The right of parties to an interstate shipment to limit the carrier's
liability for damage to the goods, in consideration of optional reduced

ERIE R. R. CO. v. STONE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

rates and in accordance with schedules and a form of contract duly
published and filed with the Commission, is well settled.
Such provisions for notice of claim and limited liability bind the parties until changed by the Commission.
Reversed.
THE case

is stated in thq opinion.

Mr. William E. Cushing, with whom Mr. C. E. McBride
and Mr. N. M. Wolfe were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error.
No brief filed for defendants in error..
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Suit was brought in the Common Pleas Court of Crawford County, Ohio, by Stone and Noble, present defendants in error, hereinafter designated as the plaintiffs,
against the Lake Erie & Western Railroad Company and
the present plaintiff in error, the Erie Railroad Company,
to recover damages to certain horses shipped under bills
of lading hereinafter referred to. Plaintiffs recovered a
judgment in the court of original jurisdiction, and the
same was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of Crawford
County, to review which judgment a writ of error brings
the case to this court.
The horses were shipped under a contract designated
"Limited Liability Live Stock Contract," which was
executed in duplicate on the part of the Lake Erie &
Western Railroad Company and the shippers. That contract contained the following stipulation:
"That no claim for damages which may accrue to the
said shipper under this contract shall be allowed or paid
by the said carrier, or sued for in any court by 'the said
shipper, unless a claim tor such loss or damage shall be
made in writing, verified by the affidavit of the said shipper
or his agent, and delivered to the Erie Ry. agent of said

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

carier at his office in East Buffalo, N. Y., within five days
from the time said stock is removed from said car or cars;
and that if any loss or damage occurs upon the line of a
connecting carrier, then such carrier shall not be liable
unless a claim shall be made in like manner, and delivered
in like time, to some proper officer or agent of the carrier
on whose line the loss or injury occurs."
At a trial some four years before the one in which a
verdict and judgment were rendered against the Erie
Railroad Company, a verdict and judgment were rendered in favor of the Lake Erie & Western Railroad Company, and that company is out of the case,
. The suit was tried as to the Erie Railroad Company at
the February Term, 1914, of the Common Pleas Court of
Crawford County, and the court charged the jury, among
other things, that it was conceded that no written claim
was filed within five days after the shipments respectively
arrived at their destinations, and submitted to the jury
the question whether this limitation was reasonable.
The jury gave a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs for a sum
which included the interstate shipments here involved
and an intrastate shipment for which a separate cause of
action was stated in the amended petition. It is this
judgment upon the lump sum which was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals of Crawford County.
For a defense the Erie Railroad Company set up,
among other things, that the horses were shipped under
the terms of the written live-stock contract above referred
to; that this contract contained the requirement of notice
already stated and gave a choice of two published tariff
rates, the lower one based upon the agreed valuation of
not exceeding one hundred dollars, for each horse. The
recovery in the case was for the full value of the horses,
and not for the limited liability valuation. The answer
further set up, that each of the interstate shipments in
question came into the hands of the Erie Railroad Coin-

ERIE R. R. CO. v. STONE.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany for transportation from Ohio to East Buffalo, New
York; that its official tariffs, classifications and rules
applicable to such interstate shipments, and in print and
in force at and during the term of shipments, were duly
filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, pursuant to the acts of Congress. At the trial the Erie Railroad Company put in evidence its tariff rates, showing
the alternative rate based upon the lower valuation, and
the contract containing the stipulation as to notice already
set forth.
The federal question here presented is whether the court
was, right in leaving to the jury the question of the reasonableness of the requirement tliat notice should be given
within five days, and permitting the jury if it found that
this limit was unureasonable to give a verdict in excess of
the limited liability contracted for.
This case requires little discussion, as the principles
governing it have been settled by frequent decisions of
this court. We need not stop to consider whether the
requirement of the live-stock contract that a claim for
damages should be presented within .five days from the
time the stock was removed from the cars was reasonable or not, for this question has been answered in favor
of the reasonableness of such stipulation in the recent
case of Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wall, 241 U. S. 87.
.See also St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v.
Starbird, 243 U. S. 592.
In the case under consideration it appears that the redueed rates under which these horses were shipped and
the limited liability arising from shipping under such reduced rates were fixed by the tariff schedules and the form
of limited liability contract duly published and filed with
the Interstate Commerce Commission, as required by law.
These rates and that contract which contained the notice
requirement thus became binding upon the parties until
changed by order of the Commission. This is too well

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

settled to need discussion. The rules and regulations,
duly published and filed, which in any wise affect the rates
or the value of the service to be rendered are controlling
upon both parties to the shipping contract. (Act of
June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 586, ยง2.) The binding force of
these contracts and regulations has been affirmed in many
cases; among them, Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl,
227 U. S. 639, 652; Boston & Maine Railroad v. Hooker,
233 U. S.97, 112; Louisville & Nashville R.R.Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S.94, 98; Great Northern Ry. Co. v. O'Connor,
232 U. S.508, 515; Pierce Co. v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 236
U. S.278, 285; Southern Railway Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S.
632, 638; Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S.319; Norfolk Southern R. R. Co.
v. Chatman, ante, 276.
It follows that the judgment of the Court of Appeals of
Crawford County must be reversed and the cause remanded to that court for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 267. Argued May 4, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.
The Hours of Service Act of March 4, 1907, 34 Stat. 1415, is remedial,
passed to protect both public and employees from the dangers
arising from overwork in railway employment, and should be construed, in effectuation of this purpose, as requiring the carrier to do
all reasonably within its power to confine the houts of service within
the limits stated.

