OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Appellants.

244 U. S.

HOPKINS ET AL. v. WALKER ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 234. Submitted October 18, 1915.-Decided June 11, 1917.
A case arises under the laws of the United States where an appropriate
statement of the plaintiff's cause of action, unaided by any anticipation or avoidance of defenses, discloses that it really and substantially involves a controversy respecting the validity, construction
or effect of a law of Congress.
A substantial controversy respecting the construction and effect of the
mining laws is presented by a case in which the plaintiff sets up title
under a placer patent, alleging that the locus in quo was not known
to contain lodes when the patent was applied for and was so adjudged
against strangers to the suit who adversed the application, and in
which the defendants, notwithstanding such judgments, claim the
same ground under other lode locations made after the patent and
embracing claims of the width of 600 feet, while plaintiff contends
25 feet would be the maximum if the ground remained subject to
lode location.
In a suit to remove a particular cloud from the plaintiff's title, the
facts showing that title and the existence and invalidity of the instrument or record sought to be eliminated as a cloud are essential
parts of the plaintiff's cause of action and must be alleged in the
bill.
The rule is the same in respect of suits to remove clouds under § 6115
of the Montana Codes of 1907, as distinguished from suits to quiet
title under § 6870.
Recorded certificates of location are the first muniment of the locator's
paper title and, when verified, are, in Montana, made prima facie
evidence of all facts properly recited in them (Codes 1907, §§ 2284,
2285); and so, when apparently valid but actually, under the mining
laws, invalid, they may becloud the title injuriously.
Reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. L. O. Evans, Mr. W. B. Rodgers, Mr. D. Gay Stivers,

HOPKINS v. WALKER.
244 U. S.

487

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. D. M. Kelly, Mr. J. L. Templeman, Mr. John A.
Shelton and Mr. H. C. Hopkins for appellants.
Mr. Thomas J. Walsh for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This is a direct appeal under § 238, Jud. Code, from a
decree dismissing a suit in equity for want of jurisdiction,
the question for decision now being whether the case
presented by the bill is one arising under the laws of the
United States.
With considerable detail the bill alleges that the plaintiffs are the owners of a placer mining claim in Montana
for which a United States patent was issued to their predecessors in interest in 1895; that they and their pred-

ecessors have been the owners and in actual possession for
more than twenty years; that at the time of the application for the patent no mineral-bearing vein or lode was
known to exist within the boundaries of this placer claim;
that prior to its location two lode locations were made
or attempted to be made covering part of it, and While
the application for the patent was pending the lode claimants conformed to the mining laws of the United States
by filing adverse claims in the local land office and bringing suits to establish them in a court of competent jurisdiction; that the placer claimants prevailed in those suits
and certified copies of the judgments were duly filed in
the local land 'office; that further proceedings were then
had in the Land Department resulting in the issue of a
patent to the placer claimants according to those judgments; and that ufhder the mining laws this passed to the
plaintiffs' predecessors a full title to all land and all minerals within the boundaries of the placer claim.
The bill further alleges that notwithstanding the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

absence of any known vein or lode within the boundaries
of the placer claim at the time of the application for the
patent, notwithstanding the judgments in favor of the
placer claimants in the two adverse suits and notwithstanding the issue of the patent, several persons claim to
have made lode locations at different times from 1900 to
1913 upon part of the placer claim-the part covered by
the two earlier lode locations which were unsuccessfully
asserted in the adverse suits-and have caused certificates
of the location of these later lode claims to be recorded in
the office of the clerk of the county wherein the land lies;
that these certificates contain declarations and recitals
tending to support the lode claims to which they referthere are nine-and give the length of each claim as 1500
feet and its width as 600 feet; that these lode claims and
the certificates were made upon the mistaken theory that
under the mining laws the placer patent is wholly invalid
as to the ground covered by the two earlier lode claims,
and, if this be not so, that the ground in controversy was
known at the time of the application for the patent to
contain valuable mineral-bearing veins or lodes and therefore, under the mining laws, was excepted from the patent
and remained subject to location as lode claims; that, even
if there were known mineral-bearing veins or lodes within
the placer claim at the time of the application for the
patent, no subsequent location of any such vein or lode
could be made, under the mining laws, to embrace more
than twenty-five feet of the surface on each side of it;
that the defendants are claiming the ground in controversy
under the later lode claims and the certificates before described; that for the reasons indicated these locations and
certificates are invalid and the certificates, as recorded,
constitute clouds upon the plaintiffs' title and reduce its
market value; and that the determination of the plaintiffs'
rights requires a construction of the mining laws under
which the proceedings resulting in the patent were had

HOPKINS v. WALKER.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and a decision of what, according to those laws, passed by
the patent and what, if anything, was excepted and remained open to location.
There is also an allegation that the suit is one arising
under the laws of the United States and the matter in dispute exceeds, exclusive of interest and costs, the sum or
value of three thousand dollars, but there is no allegation
of diverse citizenship. The prayer is that the cloud caused
by the recording of the certificates of location be removed
and the title of the plaintiffs quieted.
It is conceded that the plaintiffs, being in possession,
have no remedy at law and that their remedy, if any, is
in equity. Our concern is not with this, but with the
question whether the case is one arising under the laws
of the United States. A case does so arise where an appropriate statement of the plaintiff's cause of action, unaided
by any anticipation or avoidance of defenses, discloses that
it really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy respecting the validity, construction or effect of a
law of Congress. Boston &c. Mining Co. v. Montana Ore
Co., 188 U. S. 632; Shulthis v. McDoqgal, 225 U. S.561,
569; Denver v. New York Trust Co., 229 U. S. 123, 133;
Taylor v. Anderson, 234 U. S. 74. Assuming that the
allegations of the bill concerning the nature and validity
of the plaintiffs' title and the existence, invalidity and
recording of the defendants' certificates of location constitute a part of the plaintiffs' cause of action, it is plain
that a controversy respecting the construction and effect
of the mining laws is involved and is sufficiently real and
substantial to bring the case within the jurisdiction of the
District Court. This is practically conceded in the brief
for the defelidants which says: "The controversy arises
by reason of the peculiar provisions of the law [Rev. Stats.,
§ 2333] under which one is permitted to enter upon lands
patented as a placer claim and to locate within such claim
a lode or lodes known to exist at the time of filing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

application for the placer patent." But it is insisted that
the allegations concerning the existence, invalidity and
recording of the defendants' certificates of location form
no part of the plaintiffs' cause of action and so, for present
purposes, must be disregarded. To this we cannot assent.
In both form and substance the bill is one to remove a
particular cloud from the plaintiffs' title, as much so as if
the purpose were to have a tax deed, a lease or a mortgage
adjudged invalid and cancelled. It hardly requires statement that in such cases the facts showing the plaintiff's
title and the existence and invalidity of the instrument
or record sought to. be eliminated as a cloud upon the
title are essential parts of the plaintiff's cause of action.
Full recognition of this is found in the decisions of this
and other courts. Wilson Cypress Co. v. Del Pozo, 236
U. S. 635, 643-644; Lancaster v. Kathleen Oil Co., 241
U. S. 551, 554-555; Walton v. Perkins, 28 Minnesota, 413;
Wals v. Grosvenor, 31 Wisconsin, 681; Teal v. Collins,
9 Oregon, 89; Sheets v. Prosser, 16 N. Dak. 180, 183.
If we turn to the statutes and decisions in Montana
relating to the right to maintain such suits, we find that
the same rule is recognized there. Two statutes may be
noticed. Both were copied from the laws of California and
are found in the Montana Codes of 1907. One, § 6115,
provides for the cancellation of an instrument, apparently
valid but actually invalid, where there is reason to apprehend that, if not cancelled, it may prove injurious to the
plaintiff. The other, § 6870, permits a suit to quiet title
against an adverse claimant in the absence of conditions
which formerly were deemed essential. In California
suits under the former are referred to as suits to remove
clouds from title while those under the latter are called
suits to quiet title. The two sections are there regarded
as different in both substance and purpose-the former
as putting in statutory form and preserving "an old and
well settled rule of equity" and the latter as greatly

HOPKINS v. WALKER.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

liberalizing and enlarging another old rule. Of the former,
it is said that it "is aimed at a particular instrument, or
piece of evidence, which is dangerous to the plaintiff's
rights," and that "there can be no question but that the
facts which show the apparent validity of the instrument
which is said to constitute the cloud, and also the facts
showing its invalidity, ought to be stated.'" Castro v.
Barry, 79 California, 443; Hibernia Society v. Ordway,
38 California, 679. The Supreme Court of Montana
follows the California decisions, quotes approvingly from
them and holds in respect of suits to remove clouds from
title that "the complaint must disclose the factsnecessary
to show that, but for the interposition of the court, the
plaintiff may suffer injury." Hicks v. Rupp, 49 Montana,
40, 44-45; Merk v. Bowery Mining Co., 31 Montana, 298,
309.
Thus whether we apply the general rule or the Montana
rule, it is manifest that the allegations of the. bill which it
is insisted must be disregarded are material parts of the
plaintiffs' cause of action, that is to say, they are important
elements of the asserted right to have the recording of the
certificates cancelled as a cloud upon the title.
Recorded certificates of location constitute the first
muniment of the locator's paper title, Lindley on Mines,
3rd ed., § 379, and when verified, as in the case here, are,
in Montana, made primafacie evidence of all facts properly recited in them. Codes 1907, §§ 2284, 2285. So,
when they are apparently valid, but under the mining
laws are actually invalid, as is asserted here, they may
becloud the title injuriously.
We are accordingly of opinion that the bill states a case
arising under the mining laws of the United States and of
which the District Court is given jurisdiction.
Decree reversed.

