RAILROAD SUPPLY CO. v. ELYRIA IRON CO. .285
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

the principle of Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Adams, 192
U. S. 440, and Boering v. Chesapeake Beach Ry. Co., 193
U. S. 442.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

RAILROAD SUPPLY COMPANY v. ELYRIA IRON
& STEEL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 95. Argued April 17, 18, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
The following patents, viz., No. 538,809, of May 7, 1895, No. 691,332,
of January 14, 1902, and No. 721,644, of February 24, 1903, all
granted to one Wolhaupter for alleged new and useful improvements
in railroad tie plates, are here examined in respect of certain of their
claims in comparison with the prior art, and are held invalid for
want of novelty and invention.
Flanges and teeth projecting from the under surfaces of tie plates, for
the purpose of holding them to the ties, and flanges or shoulders
on the upper surfaces, designed to receive and resist the lateral
thrust of the rails and thus preserve the gauge of the track, having
been described in earlier patents and become well known, invention
in the Wolhaupter plates is left to depend upon the method of combining strength with economy -by providing flanges upon the upper
surfaces for the rails to rest upon; but this feature also, besides
having been in substance anticipated by earlier patents, is held to be
no more than the product of ordinary mechanical skill, 'since resort
to channels, grooves and corrugations was a familiar method of reducing the cost of iron plates by reducing their weight without decreasing their strength.
A patentee is presumed to have had all prior patents before him when
he applied for his patent.
Mere carrying forward of the original thought, a change only in form,
proportions or degree, doing the same thing in the same way, by

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

substantially the same means, with better results, is not such invention as will sustain a patent.
Patents claiming merely improvements in devices already well exploited in the prior art must be limited strictly to the forms described
in the claims.
213 Fed. Rep. 789, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Taylor E. Brown, with whom Mr. Clarence E.
Mehlhope was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Frederick P. Fish and Mr. Frank F. Reed, with
whom Mr. Edward S. Rogers was on the briefs, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE

delivered the opinion of the court.

On March 26, 1909, The Railroad Supply Company,
petitioner, commenced this suit against The Elyria Iron
& Steel Company in the Circuit (now District) Court for
the Northern District of Ohio, claiming infringement of
claim No. 8 of United States Letters Patent No. 538,809,
granted May 7, 1895, of claims Nos. 1, 2 and 3 of Patent
No. 691,332, granted January 14, 1902, and of claims
Nos. 7 and 9 of Patent No. 721,644, granted February 24,
1903. All of these patents, granted to B. Wolhaupter,
were acquired by the petitioner, and each of the three purported to describe a new and useful improvement in railroad tie-plates.
Such proceedings were had in the case that on March 4,
1912, the District Court decided that the petitioner's
patents were not infringed by the device manufactured
and sold by the defendant.
'On appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit, that court on April 7, 1914, affirmed the decree of
the District Court dismissing the bill, and held in its

RAILROAD SUPPLY CO. v. ELYRIA IRON CO. 287
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

opinion that the claims of the patents relied upon were
void for want of patentable novelty. This decree is now
here for review on certiorari.
A railroad tie-plate,' sometimes called a "wear plate," is
a rectangular piece of metal, originally with both surfaces
flat, designed to beplaced upon the tie immediately under
the rail, for the purpose of protecting the tie from the
wear, which in soft wood is very great, incident to the
vibration of the rail caused by passing engines and trains
and for the purpose of holding the rail more firmly in
place than it could otherwise be held by the spikes without the plate, thereby preserving the gauge of the track.
In the early days of railroading when engines and cars
were small and light, when speed was comparatively slow
and when hardwood, which held the spikes firmly in place,
was abundant and cheap, such plates were little used;
but the increase in weight of rails and rolling stock, the
higher speed of trains and the necessary use of the cheaper
soft woods for ties have brought them into extensive use.
The general use of these plates. with heavy rolling stock
and traffic presented the problem of making them as
strong and inexpensive as possible and in a form such that
they would adhere firmly to the ties while doing the least
possible damage to the fibre of the wood.
The statement of this problem shows convincingly that
even at the beginning it offered a very limited field for
invention, if, indeed, it presented any field at all for the
exercise of that inventive genius which it is the policy
of the law to protect and reward with a monopoly for
seventeen years.
The claims of the patents declared on are as follows:
Claim 8 of Patent No. 538,809 reads:
"A railway-tie plate formed on the under side with devices more or less sharpened adapted to penetrate and
engage the tie, and on its upper side with a series of flanges
on which the rail rests, substantially as described."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

It would be difficult to write in more general terms a
description of any plate, whether channeled, corrugated,
grooved or ribbed on both sides.
Claims Nos. 1 and 2 of Patent No. 69i,332, differ so
slightly that No. 1 will suffice:
"A Yailway-tie plate provided on ita upper side with
one or more flanges on which the rail may rest or by which
it is directly sustained and on the under side with one or
more tie-engaging flanges extending parallel with the
upper flanges and directly beneath the latter, substantially as described."
Claims 7 and 9 of Patent No. 721,644 are so similar
that only No. 7 need. be quoted:
"A tie-plate provided in its rail-supporting surface
with transverse grooves or channels, and at one margin
of said supporting surface with a transverse rail-abutting
shoulder."
Wolhaupter the grantee of the three patents was a civil
engineer employed by a railroad company and he testifies
that he first turned his attention to tie-plates for the purpose of improving ,them "in the year 1893 or early in
1894" and the earliest of his three patents in suit is dated
May 7, 1895.
The earliest patent for a "wear " or tie-plate by that
specific name, which is shown by this record, was issued
in 1881 and between that date and the date of the issuing
of the first patent in suit to Wolhaupter in 1895 twentysix patents were issued, and in the seven, years between'
1895 and 1902, when Wolhaupter'.s second patent in suit
was issued, nineteen more patents were issued for various
forms of this simple device.
Thus it is seen that Wolhaupter came late into this
narrow, and even then much exhausted, field of investigation and in his first patent (not here in suit), dated December 11, 1894, he claims invention for placing one, or permissibly two, "elongated divided ridges" on the under

RAILROAD SUPPLY CO. v. ELYRIA IRON CO. 289
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

side of such a plate to engage the tie and on the upper
side a series of ridges parallel with those on the lower side,
but adapted after being rolled to being cut away to form
a seat for the rail. There is no claim as to the relative
positions of the ridges on the two faces of the plate.
In his second'patent (the first in suit), his claim of invention is for "one or more" flanges "more br less sharpened" (not divided now) on the under side of the plate
to engage the tie, and on the upper side a series of flanges
(ridges) on which the rail may rest. The flanges (ridges)
on the upper surface must not be placed vertically above
the flanges or ridges on the lower and there is no provision
for cutting them away for a rail seat as in the first patent.
The dominating thought of this patent is the cutting of
the- plate "on a diagonal line with respect to the rail
flange," but as this form of plate is not claimed by the
patentee in his later patents, and as no merit is claimed
for it in the testimony in the record, it will be neglected.
In his third patent Wolhaupter's inventive genius
placed the flanges on the under side parallel with and
directly beneath those on the upper side of the plate, instead of between them as in the second patent, or regardless of either position as in the first.
In his fourth patent the flaiges on the lower Side are
given a position '.'transverse" to the ridges on the upper
side.
In the first three of petitioner's patents the flanges on
both surfaces of the plate are for .use parallel to the grain
of the tie and transverse to the length of the rail. In the
fourth patent the flanges on the under side are described
in the specifications and drawings as transverse to, but
in claim four as parallel to, the grain of the tie.
The minute and obviously wholly tentative variations,
thus described, in the plates in the Wolhaupter patents,
are fairly illustrative of the slight differences in form given
to this simple device on which this record shows forty-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

five separate patents were granted during the twentytwo years between 1881 and 1903.
This discussion of the record and reference to the respondent's patents brings us to the question, Do the claims
of these patents describe an "invention or discovery"
or "a new and useful . . . manufacture . . . or
improvement thereof," such as our patent laws were designed to protect?
We have seen that long before Wolhaupter's patents
tie-plates were used for the purposes for which his plates
were designed. It was certainly obvious that if wedge
shaped flanges, or ribs or claws, or other downward projections, were placed on the under side of such plates they
would penetrate the ties when weight was put upon them
and thus assist in holding the rail in place.
Very certainly it was also general knowledge before
1895 that if one wished to reduce the weight of a plate
without loss of strength this could be done by using
channel iron, angle iron or corrugated iron, or, which
comes to the same thing, by having the plate made with
flanges or ribs (Servis Railroad Tie Plate Co. v. Hamilton
Steel & Iron Co., 8 Can. Exch. Rep. 381), and the piacing
of flanges on the upper side of such plates to engage the
outer flange of the bottom of the rail, and thus to receive
the lateral thrust caused by the flanges of the wheels
tending to spread the rails, was also obvious and well
known before Wolhaupter's patents.
To the obviousness of the elements necessary to the
solution of this problem must be.added the state of the
art, if such it may be called, when Wolhaupter, late in
1893 or early in 1894, began, as he says, the investigation
of tie-plates and "familiarized himself with the literature
of the subject." He testifies that he had seen the tieplates of Servis (patented 1881, No. 249,407; 1884, No.
294,816) and of Goldie (patented 1887, No. 356,760; 1890,
No. 426,530; 1891, No. 457,584; 1891, No. 457,585, and

RAILROAD SUPPLY CO. v. ELYRIA IRON CO. 291
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1892, No. 485,030) and he is presumed by the law to have
had all prior patents before him when he applied for his
patent. Duer v. Corbin Cabinet Lock Co., 149 U. S. 216,
223; Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Mfg. Co., 177 U. S. 485,
493.
In the plates of Servis, Wolhaupter saw a plate with
"a flange or flanges formed on the lower side" to engage
the tie lengthwise of the grain of the wood and, of course,
transverse to the rail, and in the Goldie patents he saw
in No. 457,584 "a triangular tooth like projection" extending downward from the bottom of the plate and a
raised shoulder on the upper side to receive the lateral
thrust of the edge of the rail flange, and in patent No.
485,030 he saw a plate with two downward projecting
ribs to engage the tie, with a shoulder on the upper side
to receive the thrust of the rail, and with a "transverse
depression" in the upper surface, and bearings or flanges
on each side of this depression to receive and support the
base of the rail.
•We thus have Wolhaupter confessing that before he
applied for a patent he had knowledge of tie-plates with
"ridges," "flanges" and "teeth" projecting downward
from the under side of them to engage the tie, differing
at most only in form, and in this but slightly, from the
similar downward projecting flanges "more or less sharpened" which appear in all three of his patents in suit;
that he had knowledge of plates with a shoulder on the
upper surface to receive the thrust of the side of the bottom of the rail, not differing from the "rail abutting
shoulder" shown in all three of his patents, and that he
also had knowledge of the latest Goldie patented plate,
with the upper surface "channeled" by having a depression extending across the plate under the central portion
of the bottom of the rail and with a bearing on each side
of it to support the rail.
It is thus made very clear that the only appearance

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

even of novelty or of invention in the Wolhaupter plates
is in their having flanges on the upper surface, on which
it is intended the rail shall rest, for downward extending
flanges on the under side and the rail abutting shoulder
on the upper side are found in earlier patents in almost
precisely the form which he gave to them. But such
flanges, on the upper surface of the Wolhaupter plate cannot constitute of themselves patentable invention or
novelty, for it is very clear, as we have already said, that
a resort to channels, grooves and corrugations was a
familiar method of reducing the weight and thereby the
cost of iron plates without decreasing their strength, long
before the Wolhaupter patents, and this form was, therefore, one to which any skilful mechanic would turn to accomplish the purpose that Wolhaupter claimed for it, and
that others did so resort to this form is sufficiently shown
by reference to the Wells patent, No. 203,570 (1878), the
Wilson, patent, No. 522,867 (1894) and the Dunham
patent, No. 469,386 (1892).
With these facts before him the most that can be said
for the patents in stlt is that they gave a somewhat jlifferent form to three features which were perfectly familiar
and were similarly grouped in prior forms of tie-plates but
without giving to any of them any new function and
without accomplishing by them any new result. This
brings the patents within ;the principle so often declared
that "a mere carrying forward of the original thought,
a change only in form, proportions, or degree, doing the
same thing in the same way, by substantially the same
means, with better results, is not .euch an invention as
will sustain a patent." Roberts v. Ryer, 91 U. S. 150;
Belding Mfg. Co. v. Challenge Corn Planter Co., 152 U. S.
100; Market Street Cable Ry. Co. v. Rowley, 155 U. S.

621, 629.
The device involved in these patents is so simple and
familiar in all of its forms that a description of it seems

RAILROAD SUPPLY CO. v. ELYRIA IRON CO. 293
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sufficient to visualize it to the reader, but cuts of it in
various forms may be found in the reported decisions of
this case, Railroad Supply Co. v. Elyria Iron & Steel Co.,
213 Fed. Rep. 789, and in the report of the case, involving
the same claims of the same patents, in the Seventh Circuit, to be found in RailroadSupply Co. v. Hart Steel Co.,193 Fed. Rep. 418 and 222 Fed. Rep. 261.
Clearly persuaded as we are that the slight variations
claimed for the patents in suit from the plates which had
gone before do not constitute patentable invention we
cannot consent to further extend this discussion by a
minute comparison of them with earlier patents appearing
in the record, but we content ourselves with adopting
as comment not to be improved upon in such a case as
we have here the following from a former decision of this
court:
"The design of the patent laws is to reward those who
make some substantial discovery or invention, which adds
to our knowledge and makes a step in advance in the useful arts. Such inventors are worthy of all favor. It was
never the object of those laws to grant a monopoly for
every trifling device, every shadow of a shade of an idea,
which would naturally and spontaneously occur to any
skilled mechanic or operator ih the ordinary progress of
manufactures. Such an indiscriminate creation of exclusive privileges tefids rather to obstruct than to stimulate invention. It creates a class of speculative schemers
who make it their business to watch the advancing wave
of improvement, and gather its foam in the form of patented monopolies, which enable them to lay a heavy tax
upon 'the industry of the country, without contributing
anything to 'the real advancement of the arts. It embarrasses the honest pursuit of business with fears and
apprehensions of concealed liens and unknown liabilities
to lawsuits and vexatious accountings for profits made in
good faith." Atlantic Works v. Brady, 107 U. S. 192, 200.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

We add that each of the patents of the petitioner being
in terms for an "improvement in tie-plates," the state of
the "prior art" as described in this opinion requires that
they be limited strictly to the form described in the claims,
and therefore the patents in suit, even if they had proved
valid, would not have been infringed by the plates manufactured by the defendant.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY did not take any part in the decision
of this case.

HART STEEL COMPANY ET AL. v. RAILROAD
SUPPLY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 67.

Argued April 17, 18, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

A patent owner sued for infringement in two circuits, the defendants
being, in one case, a corporation which manufactured the articles
complained of, and, in the other, a second corporation whose shares
were owned, and whose conduct was controlled, by the first and
which, with its manager (joined with it as co-defendant), was acting
as the selling agent of the first corporation under its authority and
in its interest. The subject-matter and relief prayed were the same
in both suits. Held, that there was such privity between the defendants that a judgment against the plaintiff rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the suit against the manufacturer was res
judicata as to the other suit, then pending before the Circuit Court
* of Appeals for the other circuit.
A decree against the plaintiff in a patent infringement suit was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit while its appeal

