W0ODWORTH v. CHESBROUGH.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

citizenship, stated in the bill to give the federal court
jurisdiction, a condition that is complied with by the declaration in the present case.
Defendant attempts to distinguish the present case
from the cases cited above and, in 77 assignments of error
concentrated into 18 points, urges the contentions we have
noted and contentions based on the rulings of the trial
court in the admission and rejection of evidence and
charges to the jury and the rulings of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and attempts to support them by an elaborate
and minute argument. Indeed, the whole case is-reviewed
and all of the deductions made by the lower tribunals from
the evidence combated and the-contentions reviewed
which were disposed of by the 4ircuit Court of Appeals, in whose decision we concur. To answer in detail
would extend this opinion to repellent length. It is
ehough to say of them that they show no reversible
error.
Judgment affirmed.

WOODWORTH v. CHESBROUGH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 180.

Argued April 19, 20, 1917.:--Decided May 21, 1917.

Finding a verdict and judgment excessive, the Court of Appeals gave
the party who had recovered them his option to submit to a reversal
or obtain an affirmance by remitting part of the judgment. The
party having acted on the latter alternative, Held, that his cross
writ of error complaining of the reduction must be dismissed.
Cro6 writ of error to review 221 Fed. Rep. 912, dismissed.

OCTOBER TERM, 116,-

80

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. B.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward S. Clark, with whom Mr. John C. Weadock
and Mr. H. M. Gillett were on the briefs, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Thomas A. E. Weadock for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.

This is a cross writ of orror taken by Frank T. Woodworth, defendant in error in No. 179, ante, 72, and is
presented on the record in that case.
As stated in the opinion in No.179, the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the judgment obtained by Woodworth
against Chesbrough on the ground that certain amounts
computed in the judgment were not' sustained by the
evidence-and, therefore, remanded the case for a new trial.
Thereupon Woodworth moved to modify the opinion and
judgment in such manner as to permit him to remit such
part of it as the court thought was not supported by the
evidence and that the judgment, as modified, be affumed.
The motion was denied.
A new trial was had, again resulting in a verdict and
judgment for Woodworth. The Court of Appeals again
decided that it was excessive but gave Woodworth permission to file a remission of the excess. This he did.
The remittitur recited that plaintiff remits from the
judgment the sum of $7,708.56, leaving the amount of the
judgment to be $16,005.44. It was stated that it was done
in compliance with the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals "for the sole purpose of obtaining the entry of a
final judgment herein, and of securing the affirmance of
that part of the judgment which is not so remitted, and
is intended to be without prejudice to plaintiff in any cross

WOODWORTH v. CHESBROUGH.
244 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeding hereafter prosecuted by him before the Supreme Court of the United States, which cross proceeding
follows and continues to be in connection with any proceeding prosecuted in that court by defendant for the
purpose of reviewing said judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals."
The Court of Appeals then rendered the following
judgment:
"This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of
the record from the District Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Michigan, Northern Division,
and was argued by counsel.
"The court having filed its opinion, and defendant in
error, Woodworth, having thereupon filed in this court a
certified copy of a remittitur filed by him in the court below whereby it appears that the judgment complained
of herein has been reduced by the sum of seven thousand
seven hundred eight dollars and fifty-six cents ($7,708.56)
so that it now stands in the court below as a judgment
for sixteen thousand five dollars and forty-four cents
($16,005.44) and costs, entered as of November 22, 1913,
and bearing interest from the date at five per cent.
"It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court that
the judgment of the said District Court in this cause, as
so reduced, and as so standing after such reduction, be,
and the same is hereby affirmed; but that plaintiff in error,
Chesbrough, recover the costs of this court.
"The remittitur so filed having contained the clause
stating that it was intended to be without prejudice to
plaintiff below (Woodworth) in the prosecution by him of a
cross writ of error or proceeding in the Supreme Court if
defendant below should proceed in that court to review
this judgment, and this court being unwilling to embarrass
the party, Woodworth, in his attempt to preserve any
right of review to which he may be so contingently. entitled, approval of such remittitur as a sufficient con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916..
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

pliance with the opinion on file, is not withheld because
of the presence therein of such attempted reservation;
but such approval is not to be taken to imply that such
right of review can thereafter exist, or that such attempted
reservation has any effect to make the remittitur other
than absolute and unconditional."
In assertion of the right attempted to be reserved Woodworth prosecutes this writ of error.
A motion is made to dismiss the writ of error, and we
think it should be granted. Woodworth is in the somewhat anomalous position of having secured a judgment
against Chesbrough and yet seeking to retract the condition upon which it was obtained. This he cannot do.
Koenigsberger v. Richmond Silver Mining Co., 158 U. S.
41, 52. He encounters, besides, another obstacle: If the
remittitur be disregarded the judgment entered upon it
must be disregarded and the original judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals restored, which, not being final,
cannot be reviewed.
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 310.

Argued April 13, 16, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

An order of the interstate Commerce Commission assigning a cause for
hearing upon an issue of reparation is not an order in the sense of ยง 1
of the Commerce Court Act, 36 Stat. 539; Judicial Code, ยง 207; and
the District Court has no jurisdiction to enjoin the Commission
from proceeding with such hearing. Procter& Gamble Co.v. United
States, 225 U. S.282.
Reversed.

