FARMERS IRRIG. DIST. v. O'SHEA.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

and was more properly applicable to the defense of contributory negligence, concerning which the court must
be presumed to have given proper instructions to the

jury.
Affirmed.

FARMERS IRRIGATION DISTRICT ET AL. v.
STATE OF NEBRASKA ON THE RELATION OF
O'SHEA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.

No. 215.

Submitted April 25, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

Under ยง 3438 of the Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1913, as construed
by the Supreme Court of the State, the owner of an irrigation canal
may be compelled to bridge it to afford access between the lands of
another which are intersected by it, although the canal was built
across the lands by one who owned them at the time and who sold the
separated parcels by successive conveyances to their present owner,
after the canal had been long in operation and after it had been disposed of to another interest.
In virtue of the right to affix conditions to grants of corporate power,
the State of Nebraska, in granting appellant Irrigation District the
privilege of obtaining lands for canals, etc., by condemnation, was
justified in imposing, by the same law, the duty to build bridges
without further compensation in the circumstances indicated in the
preceding paragraph, and appellant, having accepted the privilege
cum onere, can not complain that its property is taken in violation
of the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment when the
requirement is enforced, even though the right of way for the particular canal in question was acquired without resort to tondemnation.
A state law laying a duty upon all owners of irrigation canals to construct bridges over them for the benefit of abutting lands does not
violate the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
in not embracing canals devoted to other uses.
98 Nebraska, 239, affirmed.
"I

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

TE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. A. Wright for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Thomas M. Morrow and Mr. William Morrow for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Peter O'Shea filed his petition in the District Court of
Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska, alleging, among other
things, that the Farmers Irrigation District is a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of an act
to provide for the organization and government of irrigation districts, and to provide for acquiring the right of way
to build irrigation ditches or canals, and other property,
for the dividing of certain portions of the territory of the
State of Nebraska into irrigation districts, and for the purpose of buying irrigating canals already constructed, or
partially constructed, and paying for the same; that the
Farmers Irrigation District is the owner of an irrigation
canal in Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska, which canal
intersects certain described real estate owned by the
relator; that that portion of this real estate ,lying north'
of the right of way of the canal does not abut upon any
public highway, nor has the relator any private way from
this real estate lying north of the canal to any highway;
that the only convenient way by which the real estate on
the north side of the canal can be used with that on the
south side is to construct a bridge across the canal; that
that portion of the land lying south of the canal abuts. upon
a public highway, but that portion lying north of the right
of way of the canal is completely cut off from any public
highviay, because of the fact that the canal forms an impassable barrier unless a bridge is constructed over the
same; that the portion of said real estate north of said

FARMERS IRRIG. DIST. v. O'SHEA.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

canal is a quarter of a mile from the east side of the same
to a public highway, and is also a distance of a quarter of
a mile from the west side of said real estate to a public
highway, and is also a distance of one-half mile from the
north side of the same to a public highway, without any
private way leading to any highway, and the lands between the east, west and north side of said real estate,
and the public highways, are held in private ownership;
that it is necessary for the free and convenient use of the
lands on both sides of the canal by the owner thereof that
the owner of the canal erect a suitable and convenient
bridge across the canal; that demand has been made upon
the respondents to erect a bridge across the canal at a
point to be indicated by the relator on these premises,
and that respondents have refused to erect such bridge;
that the owner of the premises has no way of ingress and
egress from that portion of the premises lying north of the
right of way of the canal except through. the private
property of others. Wherefore, relator prayed that an
alternative writ of mandamus issue to the respondents,
commanding them forthwith to erect a suitable and convenient wagon bridge over the canal at a point to be
designated by the relator, or to show cause why a peremptory writ of mandamus should not issue.
The alternative writ of mandamus was issued as prayed
for, and the respondents thereupon appeared and answered, alleging that in and prior to the year 1906 the
land on both sides of the canal was owned by the Tri-State
Land Company; that said Tri-State Land Company while
the owner of said land caused an irrigation ditch or canal
to be constructed over and across the same, which irrigation ditch is the same now owned by the Farmers Irrigation District, the Tri-State Land Company originally
being the owner of both the land and the irrigation ditch;
that thereafter the Tri-State Land Company sold and
conveyed the canal together with the right of way to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Farmers Mutual Canal Company, and the latter company thereafter sold and conveyed the canal and the right
of way to the respondent, the Farmers Irrigation District,
which now holds the same; that the Tri-State Land Company treated the parcel of land lying north of the canal
and the parcel lying south of the canal as two separate
tracts and parcels of lands; that the Tri-State Land Company conveyed these tracts at different times and as separate parcels to the relator, Peter O'Shea, and that O'Shea
purchased the lands after. the construction of the irrigation
canal and at different times as two separate and distinct
tracts of land divided from each other by the right of way
and canal of the Farmers Mutual Canal Company; and
that therefore the rights of the relator, O'Shea, are derived from and through the Tri-State Land Company
and that he has no greater or other right in the premises
than the Tri-StateLand Company would have.
The respondents for a further defense alleged that ยง 3438
of the Revised Statutes of the State of Nebraska for the
year 1913, which attempts to confer the right on land
owners under certain circumstances to-compel the owners
of irrigation canals to build bridges thereover is unconstitutional, null and void; that said section deprives the
respondent, Farmers Irrigation District, of its property
without due process of law and deprives it of equal protection of the laws, and is class legislation in that it purports to require the building of certain bridges only by
the owners of irrigation canals and does not apply to
other canals of similar nature carrying water, such 'as
drainage canals and mill races.
The case coming to trial, it was ordered by the court
that a peremptory writ of mandamus be denied and that
the action be dismissed. Appeal was taken to the Supreme
Court of Nebraska, which court reversed the judgment
and granted a peremptory writ of mandamus, 98 Nebraska,
239, and a writ of error brings the case to this court.

FARMERS IRRIG. DIST. v. O'SHEA.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

This action was brought under the terms of ยง 3438, Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1913, which reads:
"Any person, company, corporation, or association
constructing a ditch or canal through the lands of any
person, company, or corporation having no interest in
said ditch or canal shall build such ditch or canal in a
substantial manner so as to prevent damage to such land;
in all cases where necessary for the free and convenient
use of lands on both sides, of the ditch or canal by the
owner or owners of such lands, the owner or those in control of such ditch shall erect substantial and convenient
bridges across such canal or ditch, and they shall erect
and keep in order suitable gates at the point of entrance
and exit of such diteh through any enclosed field."
It appears from a stipulation between the parties to
this case that during the year .1906 the Tri-State Land
Company was the owner of the lands here involved, and
that during that year it constructed this canal- over the
lands; that afterwards, in 1909, the canal and right of way
were conveyed to the Farmers Mutual Canal Company,
which company on the seventeenth day of December, 1912,
conveyed the same to the Farmers Irrigation District;
that on April 25, 1910; the Tri-State Land Company conveyed to O'Shea the parcel of land lying north of the canal,
and on July 14, 1911, the parcel of land lying south of the
canal, and that these are the only conveyances under
which O'Shea claims title; that at the times of these conveyances the canal was fully completed, and had been in
operation a number of years, the canal being built fortysix feet wide on the bottom with a carrying capacity of at
least seven feet in depth, and constructed by excavating
to a depth of about three feet in the ground, and with
banks above the natural surface of the ground to a height
of about eight feet, with a slope of one and one-half to one.
The District Court of Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska,
held that the portion of the land occupied by the right of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

way of the irrigation canal was never owned by Peter
O'Shea, and for that reason denied his right to a writ of
mandamus. The Supreme Court of Nebraska held that
while the canal was built over the land by the then owner
of the land, nevertheless under the statute it was the duty
of the present owner of the canal to build the bridge required by the act.
The Supreme Court of the State construed ยง 3438, Revised Statutes of Nebraska, 1913, as applicable to the
situation here presented, inasmuch as it applies to "all
cases," and held that the fact that the Tri-State Land
Company, when the canal was constructed, owned the
land upon which it was built and on both sides of the
canal did not relieve the Farmers Irrigation District,
successor in title to the Tri-State Land Company in the
ownership of the canal, from the statutory obligation to
build the bridge at the instance of one who subsequently
purchased the adjacent lands. There is much discussion
of the meaning of the statute in the opinion of the court
with which we have nothing to do upon this writ of error.
The construction of the state statute by the highest court
of the State is conclusive in this court.
The questions here to be decided arise under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, it being
contended by the plaintiffs in error that the property of
the Farmers Irrigation District was taken for private use
without compensation, and that the statute as construed
by the state court has the effect to deprive it of the equal
protection of the laws.
The Farmers Irrigation District is incorporated under a
statute (Laws of Nebraska, 1895, pp. 269, 277), which
gives it the right to enter upon any land in the district
and to locate the line for any canals and necessary branches
thereof, and to acquire, either by purchase or condemnation, all lands and waters and other property necessary
for the construction, use, maintenance, repair and im-

FARMERS IRRIG. DIST. v. O'SHEA.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

provement of the canals and works, lands for reservoirs
for the storage of water. It is also given the statutory
authority to acquire by purchase any irrigation ditches,
canals or reservoirs already constructed. The Supreme
Court of Nebraska, construing this statute as imposing
the obligation to build bridges for the benefit of adjacent
land owners, and reading the same in connection with the
authority conferred upon the corporation to exercise the
right of eminent domain, held that the company must take
the burdens of the legislation with its benefits, and that
having by its incorporation accepted the rights conferred
under the statute of its creation it must exercise them
within the limitations and upon the conditions therein
named. In other words, it was held that the State had
said to the corporation of its own creation: "You may
have the right to appropriate property to the public use
which you are authorized to serve, but when the canals
constructed for that purpose divide land so that it is necessary to connect the several portions thereof by bridges,
you shall construct them at your own expense." It is
familiar law that a State may impose conditions, within
constitutional limitations, upon the exercise of corporate
authority conferred by it. The State was not obliged to
confer upon this corporation the sovereign authority to
take property by the right of eminent domain. When
it did so, we do not think it took the property of the corporation without compensation when it also obliged the
latter to comply with the conditions of this grant of power,
one of which was that it should construct bridges under
the circumstances now presented.
Nor do we think it makes any difference that the corporation was not obliged to exercise the power of eminent
domain to obtain this particular right of way. This right
existed, was conferred by the State, and might be used to
construct other portions of the canal for the purposes intended. In this construction and application of the legis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Syllabus.

-

244 U. S.

lation of the State we are unable to find the taking of
property without compensation, as is contended by the
plaintiffs in error.
As to the denial of the equal protection of the laws, this
court has frequently held that there is nothing in this
provision of the Fourteenth Amendment to prevent the
States from reasonable classification of subjects-for legislative action. This statute applies equally to all owners of
irrigation canals. The fact that it does not embrace canals
constructed for other uses and purposes does not make it
obnoxious to the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Nebraska must be
Affirmed.

ERIE RAILROAD COMPANY v. STONE ET AL.,
PARTNERS, DOING BUSINESS UNDER THE
NAME OF STONE & NOBLE.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF CRAWFORD COUNTY,
STATE OF OHIO.

No. 254. Argued May 3, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.
In a limited liability contract governing an interstate shipment of live
stock, it was stipulated, in accordance with provisions duly published
and filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission, that the connecting carrier's liability for damage should be conditional upon the
filing with its agent of a written notice of the shipper's claim within
five days from the removal of the stock from the cars. Held, reasonable. and, valid.,
The right of parties to an interstate shipment to limit the carrier's
liability for damage to the goods, in consideration of optional reduced

