OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

urged" for its decision and counsel for defendants contend
that no other question is open to our review, and cite
Montana Railway Co. v. Warren, 137 U. S. 348, 351.
Plaintiff replies that the principle of that case applies
only to questions of procedure and not to questions of
jurisdiction or the foundation of the right, adducing
Rosen v. United States, 161 U. S. 29; Old Jordan Mining
& Milling Co. v. Soci&t6 Anonyme Des Mines, 164 U. S.
261; Gila Valley, Globe & Northern Ry. Co. v. Hall, 232
U. S. 94. See also Magruder v. Drury, 235 U. S. 106, 113.
The distinction between questions seems to be artificial.
The essential circumstafice would seem to be that a review
is sought of that which was not decided, not submitted
at all or withdrawn from submission and which, if it had
been submitted, might have been decided in favor of the
appealing party.
However, in deference to the earnestness of counsel,
we have considered the questions.
Affirmed.

E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS POWDER COMPANY
ET AL. v. MASLAND ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT'OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 210.

Argued May 4, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

In a suit 'toenjoin defendant from using or disclosing secret processes
of plaintiff's business, defendant, while in effect conceding that he
learned them through his former confidential employment by plaintiff, denied that they were secret and insisted on his right to use them
as processes well known to the trade and to reveal them to expert
witnesses in making his defense. Held, that, during the taking of
proofs, defendant might properly be enjoined from disclosing the

Dlu PONT POWDER CO. v. MASLAND.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

processes to experts or other Witnesses, the restraint not extending
to his own counsel, and that the trial judge in his discretion might
reveal them to such persons, at such times, and under such precautions as he might deem necessary in the progress of the case.
In such a case the right of the defendant to make a full defense is
limited by his duty to abstain from any fraudulent abuse of the
trust which was reposed in him by the plaintiff.
The word "property," as applied to trade-marks and trade secrets,
is an unanalyzed expression of certain secondary consequences of the
primary fact that the law makes some rudimentary requirements

of good faith.
224 Fed. Rep. 689, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edwin J. Prindle, with whom Mr. Warren H.
Small, Mr. John P. Laffey and Mr. Kenneth S. Neal were
on the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. George Wharton Pepper, with whom Mr. John G.
Johnson and Mr. Frank Smith were on the brief, for
respondents.
MR. JUSTCE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill to prevent the'defendant Walter E. Masland from using or disclosing secret processes the knowledge of which was acquired by the defendant while in the
plaintiffs' employ. The defendant admits that he intends
to manufacture artificial leather, to which some of the
plaintiffs' alleged secret processes relate, but denies that
he intends to use any inventions, trade secrets, or secret
processes of the plaintiffs that he may have learned in any
confidential relation, prefacing his denial, however, with
the averment that many of the things claimed by the
plaintiffs are well known to the trade. A preliminary injunction was refused at first. 216 Fed. Rep. 271. But
before the final hearing the defendant proposed to employ

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

one or more experts and to make such disclosures to them
as the preparation of the defence might require. Thereupon the District Court issued a preliminary injunction
against disclosing any of the plaintiffs' alleged processes
to experts or witinesses during the taking of proofs, but
excepting counsel, with leave to move to dissolve the injunction if occasion to consult experts arose. Later a
motion to dissolve was denied and the hearing was continued for a decision by the Appellate Court. 222 Fed.
Rep. 340. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the
decree. 224 Fed. Rep. 689. Before any further order
was entered the writ of certiorari was granted by this
court.
The case has been considered as presenting a conflict
between a right of property and a right to make a full
defence, and it is said that if the disclosure is forbidden
to one who denies that there is a trade secret, the merits
of his defence are adjudged against him before he has a
chance to be heard or to prove his case. We approach
the question somewhat differently. The word property
as applied to trade-marks and trade secrets is an unanalyzed expression of certain secondary consequences of
the primary fact that the law makes some rudimentary
requirements of good faith. Whether the plaintiffs have
any valuable secret or not the defendant knows the facts,
whatever they are, through a special confidence that he
accepted. The property may be denied but the confidence
cannot be. Therefore the starting point for the present
matter is not property or due process of law, but that the
defendant stood in confidential relations with the plaintiffs, or one of them. These have given place to hostility,
and the first thing to be made sure of is that the defendant
shall not fraudulently abuse tne trust reposed in him.
It is the usual incident of confidential relations. If there
is any disadvantage in the fact that he knew the plaintiffs'
secrets he must take the burden with the good.

NEVADA-CALIFORNIA-OREGON RY. v. BURRUS. 103
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

The injunction asked by the plaintiffs forbade only the
disclosure of processes claimed by them, including the
disclosure to experts or witnesses* produced during the
taking of proofs-but excepting the defendant's counsel.
Some broader and ambiguous words that crept into the
decree, seemingly by mistake, may be taken as stricken
out and left on one side. This injunction would not prevent the defendant from directing questions that should
bring out whatever public facts were nearest to the alleged
secrets. Indeed it is hard to see why it does not leave the
plaintiffs' rights somewhat illusory. No very clear ground
as yet has been shown for going further. But the judge
who tries the case will know the secrets, and if in his
opinion and discretion it should be advisable and necessary
to take in others, nothing will prevent his doing so. It
will be understood that if, in the opinion of the trial judge,
it is or should become necessary to reveal the secrets to.
others it will rest in the judge's discretion to determine
whether, to whom, and under what precautions, the revelation should be made.
Decree reversed and case remandedfor further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion.

NEVADA-CALIFORNIA-OREGON

RAILWAY

v.

BURRUS.
ERROR TO THE 'SUPREME COURT O THE STATE OF NEVADA.
No. 237. Submitted April 30, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
In an action against a carrier for breach of a contract to furnish an
interstate train, the defendant objected when the tria! opened that
no rate for such trains had been filed with the Interstate Commerce
Commission and, while the trial was in progress. offered an amend-

