OCTOBER TERM, 1916..
Counsel for Parties.

244 U. S.

ADAMS ET AL. v. TANNER, ATTORNEY GENERAL
OF THE STATE OF WASHINGTON, ET AL.
APPEAt FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.
No. 273. Argued May 7, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.

The business of securing honest work for the unemployed in return for
an agreed consideration is a useful and legitimate business which,
though subject to regulation under the state police power, cannot
be forbidden by an act of a State without violating the guaranty of
liberty secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
A law forbidding employment agents from receiving fees from the
workers for whom they find places in effect destroys their occupation
as agents for workers, and cannot be sustained upon the ground that
the fees may be charged against employers.
Washington Initiative Measure Number 8 (popularly known as "The
Employment Agency Law,") as construed by the Supreme Court of
the State, is contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment.
Decree of the District Court reversed. 1
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Dallas V. Halverstadt, with whom Mr. Samuel H.
Piles, Mr. Edward J. Cannon and Mr. George Ferris were
on the briefs, for appellants.
Mr. L. L. Thompson, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Washington, with whom Mr. W. V. Tanner,
Attorney General of the State of Washington, was on the
brief, for appellees.
'By an order of the District Court, the majority and minority opinions in Wiseman v. Tanner, 221 Fed. Rep. 694, were adopted in this
case.

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

court.

Initiative Measure Number 8-popularly known as
"The Employment Agency Law"-having been submitted to the people of Washington at the general election,
received a majority vote and was thereafter declared a
law, effective December 3, 1914, as provided by the state
constitution. (Laws of Washington, 1915, 1.) It follows:
"Be it enacted by the People of the State of Washington:
"Section 1. The welfare of the State of Washington depends on the welfare of its workers and demands that they
be protected from conditions that result in their being
liable to imposition and extortion.
"The State of Washington therefore exercising herein
its police and sovereign power declares that the system
of collecting fees from the workers for furnishing them
with employment, or with information leading. thereto,
results frequently in their becoming the victims of imposition and extortion and is therefore detrimental to the
welfare of the state.

"Section 2. It shall be unlawful for any employment
agent, his representative, or any other person to demand
or receive either directly or indirectly from any person
seeking employment, or from any person on his or her
behalf, any remuneration or fee whatsoever for furnishing
him or her with employment or with information leading
thereto.
"Section 3. For each and every yiolation of any of the
provisions of this act the penalty shall be a fine of not more
than one hundred dollars and imprisonment for not more
than thirty days."
In Huntworth v. Tanner, 87 Washington, 670, the
Supreme Court held school teachers were not "workers"
within the quoted measure and that it did not apply to
one conducting an agency patronized only by such teachers

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

and their employers. And in State v. Rossman, 93 Washington, 530, the same court declared it did not in fact
prohibit employment agencies since they might charge
fees against persons wishing to hire laborers; that it was
a valid exercise of state power; that a stenographer and
book-keeper is a "worker"; and that one who charged
him a fee for furnishing information leading to employment violated the law.
As members of co-partnerships and under municipal
licenses, during the year 1914 and before, appellants were
carrying on in the City of Spokane well established
agencies for securing employment for patrons who paid
fees therefor. November 25, 1914, in the United States
District Court, they filed their original bill against W. V.
Tanner, Attorney General of the State, and George H.
Crandall, Prosecuting Attorney for Spokane County,
asking that Initiative Measure Number 8 be declared void
because in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment,
Federal Constitution, and that the defendants be perpetually enjoined from undertaking to enforce it. On
the same day they presented a motion for preliminary
injunction supported by affidavits which were subsequently met by countervailing ones. Appellees thereafter entered motions to dismiss the original bill because: (1) "Said bill of complaint does not state facts
sufficient to warrant this court in granting any relief to
the plaintiffs; (2) that plaintiffs have a plain, speedy
and adequate remedy at law; (3) that this court has no
jurisdiction over the persons of these defendants or either
of them, or of the subject-matter of this action." A temporary injunction was denied. The motions to dismiss
were sustained and a final decree to that effect followed.
Considering the doctrine affirmed in Truax v. Raich, 239
U. S. 33, and cases there cited, the record presents no
serious question in respect of jurisdiction.
The bill alleges "that the employment business con-

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sists in securing places for persons desiring to work" and
unless permitted to collect fees from those asking assistance to such end the business conducted by appellants
cannot succeed and must be abandoned. We think this
conclusion is obviously true. As paid agents their duty
is to find places for their principals. To act in behalf of
those seeking workers is another and different service,
although, of course, the same individual may be engaged
in both. Appellants' occupation as agent for workers cannot exist unless the latter pay for what they receive. To
say it is not prohibited because fees may be collected for
something done in behalf of other principals is not good reasoning. The statute is one of prohibition, not regulation.
"You take my house when you do take the prop that doth
sustain my house; you take my life when you do take the
means whereby I live."
We have held employment agencies are subject to
police regulation and control. "The general nature of
the business is such that unless regulated many persons
may be exposed to misfortunes against which the Legislature can properly protect them," Brazee v. Michigan, 241
U. S. 340, 343. But we think it plain that there is nothing
inherently immoral or dangerous to public welfare in acting as paid representative of another to find a position in
which he can earn an honest living. On the contrary,
such service is useful, commendable, and in great demand.
In Spokane v. Macho, 51 Washington, 322, 324, the
Supreme Court of Washington said: "It cannot be denied
that the business of the employment agent is a legitimate
business, as much so as is that of the banker, broker, or
merchant; and under the methods prevailing in the modern
business world it may be said to be a necessary adjunct
in the prosecution of business enterprises." Concerning
the same subject, Ex pare Dickey, 144 California, 234, 236,
the Supreme Court of California said: "The business in
which this defendant is engaged is not only innocent and

594

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

innocuous, but is highly beneficial, as tending the more
quickly to secure labor for the unemployed. There is
nothing in the nature of the -business, therefore, that in
any way threatens or endangers the public health, safety
or morals." And this conclusion is fortified by the action
of many States in establishing free employment agencies
charged with the duty to find occupation for workers.
It is alleged: "That plaintiffs have furnished positions
for approximately ninety thousand persons during the
last year, and have received applications for employment
from at least two hundred thousand laborers, for whom
they have been unable to furnish employment.
That such agencies have been established and conducted
for so long a time that they are now one of the necessary
means whereby persons seeking employment are able to
secure the same." A suggestion in behalf of the State
that while a pursuit of this kind "may be beneficial to
some particular individuals, or in specific cases, economically it is certainly non-useful, if not vicious, because it
compels the needy and unfortunate to pay for that which
they are entitled to without fee or price, that is, the right
to work," while possibly indicative of the purpose held
by those who originated the legislation, in reason, gives
it no support.
Because abuses may, and probably do, grow up in
connection with this business, is adequate reason for
hedging it about by proper regulations. But this is not
enough to justify destruction of one's right to follow a
distinctly useful calling in an upright way. Certainly
there is no profession, possibly no business, which does
not offer peculiar opportunities for reprehensible practices; and as to every one of them, no doubt, some can be
found quite ready earnestly to maintain that its suppression would be in the public interest. Skillfully directed
agitation might also bring about apparent condemnation
of any one of them by the public. Happily for all, the

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

fundamental guaranties of the Constitution cannot be
freely submerged if and whenever some ostensible justification is advanced and the police power invoked.
The general principles by which the validity of the
challenged measure must be determined have been expressed many times in our former opinions. It will
suffice to quote from a few.
In Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, 589, we held
invalid a statute of Louisiana which undertook to prohibit
a citizen from contracting outside the State for insurance
on his property lying therein because it violated the liberty
guaranteed to him by the Fourteenth Amendment. "The
liberty mentioned in that amendment means not only
the right of the citizen to be free from the mere physical
restraint of his person, as by incarceration, but the term
is deemed to embrace the right of the citizen to be free in
the enjoyment of all his faculties; to be free to use them
in all lawful ways; to live and work where he will; to earn
his livelihood by any lawful calling; to pursue any livelihood or avocation, and for that purpose to enter into all
contracts which may be proper, necessary and essential
to his carrying out to a successful conclusion the purposes
above mentioned."
"If, looking at all the circumstances that attend, or
which may ordinarily attend, the pursuit of a particular
calling, the State thinks that certain admitted evils cannot
be successfully reached unless that calling be actually
prohibited, the courts cannot interfere, unless, looking
through mere forms and at the substance of the matter,
they can say that the statute enacted professedly to protect the public morals has no real or substantial relation
to that object, but is a clear, unmistakable infringement
of rights secured by the fundamental law." Booth v.
Illinois, 184 U. S. 425, 429.
"It is also true that the police power of the State is not
unlimited, and is subject to judicial review, and when

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

exerted in an arbitrary or oppressive manner such laws
may be annulled as violative of rights protected by the
Constitution. While the courts can set aside legislative
enactments upon this ground, the principles upon which
such interference is warranted are as well settled as is the
right of judicial interference itself. The legislature being
familiar with local conditions is, primarily, the judge of
the necessity of such enactments. The mere fact that a
court may differ with the legislature in its views of public
policy, or that judges may hold views inconsistent with
the propriety of the legislation in question, affords no
ground for judicial interference, unless the act in question
is unmistakably and palpably in excess of legislative
.
If there existed a condition of affairs
power.
concerning which the legislature of the State, exercising
its conceded right to enact laws for the protection of the
health, safety or welfare of the people, might pass the
law, it must be sustained; if such action was arbitrary
interference with the right to contract or carry on business, and having no just relation to the protection of the
public within the scope of legislative power, the act must
fail." McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539, 547, 548.
"The Fourteenth Amendment protects the citizen in
his right to engage in any lawful business, but it does not
prevent legislation intended to regulate useful occupations
which, because of their nature or location, may prove injurious or offensive to the public. Neither does it prevent a municipality from prohibiting any business which
is inherently vicious and harmful. But, between the useful business which may be regulated and the vicious business which can be prohibited lie many non-useful occupations, which may, or may not be harmful to the public,
according to local conditions, or the manner in which
they are conducted." Murphy v. California, 225 U. S.
623, 628.
We are of opinion that Initiative Measure Number 8 as

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

BRANDEis, J., dissenting.

construed by the Supreme Court of Washington is arbitrary and oppressive, and that it unduly restricts the
liberty of appellants, guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment, to engage in a useful business. It may not
therefore be enforced against them.
The judgment of the court below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissents upon the ground that

under the decisions of this court-some of them so late
as to require no citation or review-the law in question
is a valid exercise of the police power of the State, directed
against a demonstrated evil.
MR.

JUSTICE

BRAwDEIS,

dissenting

To declare the statute of a State, enacted in the exercise
of the police power, invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment, is a matter of such seriousness that I state the
reasons for my dissent from the opinion of the court.
The statute of the State of Washington, commonly
known as the "Abolishing Employment Offices Measure"
was proposed by Initiative Petition No. 8, filed July 3,
1914, and was adopted November 3, 1914, at the general
election; 162,054 votes being cast for the measure and
144,544 against it. In terms the act merely prohibits the
taking of fees from those seeking employment.'
1 "An Act to prohibit the collection of fees for the securing of employment or furnishing information leading thereto and fixing a penalty
for violation thereof.
"Be it enacted by the People of the State of Washington:
"Section 1. The welfare of the State of Washington depends on the
welfare of its workers and demands that they be protected from con-

ditions that result in their being liable to imposition and extortion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

Plaintiffs, who are proprietors of private employment
agencies in the City of Spokane, assert that this statute,
if enforced, would compel them to discontinue business
and would thus, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment, deprive them of their liberty and property without
due process of law. The act leaves the plaintiffs free to
collect fees from employers; and it appears that private
employment offices thus restricted are still carrying on
business.1 But even if it should prove, as plaintiffs allege,
that their business could not live without collecting fees
"The State of Washington therefore exercising herein its police and
sovereign power declares that the system of collecting fees from the
workers for furnishing them. with employment, or with information
leading thereto, results frequently in their becoming the victims of
imposition and extortion and is therefore detrimental to the welfare
6f the state.
'"Section 2. It shall be unlawful for any employment agent, his representative, or any other person to demand or receive, cither directly
or indirectly, from any person seeking employment, or from any person
on his or her behalf, any remunerdtion or fee whatsoever for furnishing
him or her with employment or with information leading thereto.
"Section 3. For,each, and every violation of any of the provisions of
this act the penalty shall be a fine of not more than one hundred dollars
and imprisonment for not more than thirty days."
The Supreme Court of Washington has twice passed upon the scope
of the act; holding in Huntworth v. Tanner, 87 Washington, 670, that it
is not- applicable to teachers and in State v. Rossman, 93 Washington,
530, that it is applicable to stenographers and bookkeepers.
ISee Report of the State of Washington Bureau of Labor (1915-1916),
pp. 120-1.
"The free agencies, we are pleased to be able to say, are growing in
popularity, and while they do not advertise their business with the
same thrift -that the other fellows did, they are coming into general
service. There are three services-of this kind: The private agency that
receives all compensation from employens, either by the month, year,
or per the service rendered; the federal agency, and the municipal
agency; these latter two have offices in the larger places and are doing
good work and the service-is free to both employe and the employer.
In the smaller cities and towns the federal is the prevailing agency and
the postmaster of the place is usually the local representative."

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

from employees, that fact would not necessarily render
the act invalid. Private employment agencies are a business properly subject to police regulation and control.
Brazee v. Michigan, 241 U. S. 340. And this court has
made it clear that a statute enacted to promote health,
safety, morals or the public welfare may be valid, although
it will compel discontinuance of existing businesses in
whole or in part. Statutes prohibiting the manufacture
and sale of liquor present the most familiar example of
such a prohibition. But where, as here, no question of
interstate commerce is involved, this court has sustained
also statutes or municipal ordinances which compelled
discontinuance of such businesses as (a) of manufacturing
and selling oleomargarine, Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127
U. S. 678; (b) of selling cigarettes, Austin v. Tennessee,
179 U. S. 343; (c) of selling futures in grain or other
commodities, Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425; (d) of selling
stocks on margin, Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S. 606; (e) of
keeping billiard halls, Murphy v. California, 225 U. S.
623; (f) of selling trading stamps, Rast v. Van Deman &
Lewis Co., 240 U. S. 342, 368.
These cases show that the scope of the police power is
not limited to regulation as distinguished from prohibition.
They show also that the power of the State exists equally,
whether the end sought to be attained is the promotion
of health, safety or morals or is the prevention of fraud or
the prevention of general demoralization. "If the State
thinks that an admitted evil cannot be prevented except
by prohibiting a calling or transaction not in itself necessarily objectionable, the courts cannot interfere, unless, in looking at the matter, they can see that it 'is a
clear, unmistakable infringement of rights secured by the
fundamental law."' Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S. 606, 609;
Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425, 429. Or as it is so frequently expressed, the action of the legislature is final,
unless the measure adopted appears clearly to be arbitrary

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

or unreasonable or to have no real or substantial relation
to the object sought to be attained. 'Whether a measure
relating to the public welfare is arbitrary or unreasonable,
whether it has no substantial relation to the end proposed

is obviously not to be determined by assumptions or by
a priori reasoning. The judgment should be based upon
a consideration of relevant facts, actual or possibleExfacto jus oritur. That ancient rule must prevail in order
that we may have a system of living law.
It is necessary to enquire therefore: What was the evil
which the people of Washington sought to correct? Why
was the particular remedy embodied in the statute
adopted? And, incidentally, what has been the experience,
if any, of other States or countries in this connection?
But these enquiries are entered upon, not for the purpose
of determining whether the remedy adopted was wise or
even for the purpose of determining what the facts actually were. The decision of such questions lies with
the legislative branch of the government. Powell v.
Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 685. The sole purpose of the
enquiries is to enable this court to decide, whether in view
of the facts, actual or possible, the action of the State of
Washington was so clearly arbitrary or so unreasonable,
that it could not be taken "by a free government without
a violation of fundamental rights." See McCray v. United
States, 195 U. S. 27, 64.
1. The Evils. 1
The evils with which the people of Washington were
confronted arose partly from the abuses incident to the
1 The

evils incident to private employment agencies first arrested

public attention in America about 1890. During the fifteen years
preceding the enactment of the Washington law there were repeated
investigations, official and unofficial, and there was much discussion
and experimentation. See Free Public Employment Offices in the
United States, U. S. Bureau of Labor Bulletin No. 68, p. 1; Statistics
of Unemployment and the Work of Employment Offices, U. S. Bureau

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

BRNDEIS, J.,

dissenting.

system of private employment agencies and partly from
its inadequacy.
(a) The abuses.
These are summarized in a report published by the
United States Bureau of Labor in October, 1912,1 thus:
"Private employment agencies, which charge a fee for
their services, are found in every city of any size in the
United States. The nature of their business is such as to
make possible most iniquitous practices. Their patrons
are frequently men and women with only a dollar or two,
which they are eager to give up for the opportunity of
earning more. They are often of small intelligence and
easily duped. Stories of how these agencies have swindled
and defrauded those who sought employment through
them are heard universally Some of the more common
of the fraudulent 'methods said to be used by these agencies
are the following:
"1. Charging a fee and failing to make any effort to find
work for the applicant.
"2. Sending applicants where no work exists.
"3. Sending applicants to distant points where no
work or where unsatisfactory work exists, but whence the
applicant will not return on account of the expense involved.
"4. Collusion between the agent and employer, whereby
the applicant is given a few days work and then discharged
to make way for new workmen, the agent and employer
dividing the fee.
"5. Charging exorbitant fees, or giving jobs to such
applicants as contribute extra fees, presents, etc.
"6. Inducing workers, particularly girls, who have been
placed, to leave, pay another fee, and get a 'better job.'
of Labor Bulletin No. 109, p. 5; Subject Index of the U. S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics, Bulletin No. 174, pp. 85-87; Munro, Bibliography of
Municipal Government, pp. 379-381.
IUnited States Bureau of Labor Bulletin No. 109, p. 36.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

"Other evils charged against employment agents are
the congregating of persons for gambling or other evil
practices, collusion with keepers of immoral houses, and
the sending of women applicants to houses of prostitution;
sometimes employment offices are maintained in saloons,
with the resulting evils."
In the report to Congress of the United States Commission on Industrial Relations, created by Act of August 23,
1912,'c. 351, 37 Stat. 415, which gave public hearings on
the subject of employment offices, in May, 1914, the
abuses are found to be as follows:
"23. There are many private employment agents who
try to conduct their business honestly, but they are the
exception rather than the rule. The business as a whole
reeks with fraud, extortion, and flagrant abuses of every
kind. The most common evils are as follows:
"Fees are often charged out of all proportion to the
service rendered. We know of cases where $5, $9, $10,
and even $16 apiece has been paid for jobs at common
labor. In one city the fees paid by scrubwomen is at the
rate of $24 a year for their poorly paid work. Then there
is discrimination in the charges made for the same jobs.
Often, too, men are sent a long distance, made to pay
fees and transportation, only to find that no one at that
place ordered men from the employment agent. A most
pernicious practice is the collusion with foremen or .superintendents by which the employment agent 'splits fees'
with them. That is, the foreman agrees to hire men of a
certain employment agent on condition that one-fourth
or one-half of every fee collected from men whom he hires
be given to him. This leads the foreman to discharge men
constantly in order to have more men hired through the
1 Final Report and Testimony submitted to Congress by the Commission on Industrial Relations created by the Act of August 23, 1912,
64th Cong. 1st sess., Doc. 415, vol. I, pp. 109-111. See also vol. II,
pp. 1165-1440.

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

agent and more fees collected. It develops the 'threegang' method so universally complained of by railroad
and construction laborers, namely, one gang working,
another coming to work from the employment agent, and
a third going back to the city.
"Finally, there is the most frequent abuse-misrepresentation of terms and condition of employment. Men
are told that they will get more wages than are actually
paid, or that the work will last longer than it actually
will, or that there is a boarding house when there really
is an insanitary camp, or that the cost of transportation
will be paid, when it is to be deducted from the wages.
They are not told of other deductions that will be made
from wages; they are not informed about strikes that may
be on at the places to which they are sent, nor about other
important facts which they ought to know. These misrepresentations, it must be said, are often as much the
fault of the employer as of the labor agent. Also the employer will place his call for help with several agents, and
each will send enough to fill the whole order, causing many
to find no jobs. Labor agents and laborers alike are guilty
of the misuse of free transportation furnished by employers to prospective help. And it is true also that many
applicants perpetrate frauds on the labor agents themselves, as, for example, causing them to return fees when
positions actually were secured. This is the result of the
general feeling that the whole system of paying fees for
jobs is unjust; and if they must pay in order to get work,
then any attempt to get the fee back is justifiable."
(b) The Inadequacy.
But the evils were not limited to what are commonly
called abuses-like the fraud and extortion described
above. Even the exemplary private offices charging fees
to workers might prove harmful, for the reason thus stated
in the report to Congress of the United States Commission
on Industrial Rela.tions, cited supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

"18. . . . Investigations show, however, that instead of relieving unemployment and reducing irregularity,
these employment agencies actually serve to congest the
labor market and to increase idleness and irregularity of employment. They are interested primarily in the fees they
can earn, and if they can earn more by bringing workers
to an already overcrowded city, they do so. Again, it
is an almost universal custom among private employment
agents to fill vacancies by putting in them people who are
working at other places. In this way new vacancies are
created and more fees can be earned.
"19. They also fail to meet the problem because they
are so numerous and are necessarily competitive. With
few exceptions, there is no co-operation among them.
This difficulty is further emphasized by the necessity of
paying the registration fees required by many agencies;
obviously the laborer can not apply to very many if he
has to pay a dollar at each one.
"20. The fees which private employment offices must
charge are barriers which prevent the proper flow of labor
into the channels where it is needed and are a direct influence in keeping men idle. In the summer, when employment is plentiful, the fees are as low as 25 cents, and
men are even referred to work free of charge. But this
must necessarily be made up in the winter, when work is
scarce. At such times, when men need work most badly,
the private employment offices put up their fees and keep
the unemployed from going to work until they can pay
$2, $3, $5, and even $10 and more for their jobs. This
necessity of paying for the privilege of going to work, and
paying more the more urgently the job is needed, not
only keeps people unnecessarily unemployed, but seems
foreign to the spirit of American freedom and opportunity.
"21. An additional injustice inevitably connected with
labor agencies which charge fees is that they must place

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

BRANDEIS, J.,

dissenting.

the entire cost of the service upon those least able to bear
it. Employment agents say that employers will not pay
the fees; hence they must charge the employees. Among
the wage earners, too, however, those who are least in
need and can wait for work, pay the least for jobs and even
get them free, while those who are most in need make up

for all the rest and pay the highest fees.

The weakest

and poorest classes of wage earners are therefore made to

pay the largest share for a service rendered to employers,
to workers, and to the public as well."
2. The Remedies.
During the fifteen years preceding 1914 there had been
extensive experimentation in the regulation of private
employment agencies. Twenty-four States had attempted
direct regulation under statutes often supplemented by
municipal ordinances. 1 Nineteen States had attempted
indirect regulation through the competition of state
offices, and seven others through competition of municipal
1"It

is not necessary here to enter into the relative merits of governmental regulation and governmental operation. Suffice it to say
that twenty-four States and the District of Columbia have attempted
to regulate private employment agencies and have made a miserable
failure of it. The business lends itself easily to fraud and imposition
and it is far more true of the private agencies than of the public offices
that they have been frauds as well as failures."
Public Employment Offices-W. M. Leiserson, 29 Political Science
Quarterly (March, 1914), p. 36.
"The United States possesses at the present time no adequate system,
either state or national, for the regulation of private employment
agencies, either from the point of view of the content of the laws,
affording regulations of the business and restrictions as to how the
business shall be carried op, or as to proper methods of enforcement."
ILabor Laws and Their Enforcement, edited by Susan M. Kingsbury
(Boston, 1911), p. 366. See Chapter VI of this work for a study of the
regulation of private employment agencies by Mabelle Moses. See also
Chapter 663, Laws of 1913, State of Wisconsin.]

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

offices.I Other experiments in indirect regulation through
competition were made by voluntary organizations, philanthropic, social and industrial.2 The results of those
experiments were unsatisfactory. The abuses continued
in large measure; and the private offices survived to a
great extent the competition of the free agencies, public
and private. There gradually developed a conviction
that the evils of private agencies were inherent and ineradicable, so long as they were permitted to charge fees
to the workers seeking employment. And many believed
that such charges were the root of the evil.
On September 25, 1914, the American Association of
Public Employment Offices adopted at its annual meeting
the following resolutions:
"Resolved, That this association go on record as favoring
the elimination as soon as possible, of all private employment agencies operating for a profit within the United
States, and that it recommends to the consideration of
the United States Commission on Industrial Relations
and Congress and the various State legislatures legislation
having this end in view."
The United States Commission on Industrial Relations
declared in its report to Congress: I
"24. Attempts to remove these abuses by regulation
have been made in 31 States, but with few exceptions they
have proved futile, and at most they have served only
to promote a higher standard of honesty in the business
and have not 'removed the other abuses which are inherent
I Proceedings of the Association of Public Employment Offices
(Sept. 25, 1914), U. S. Dep. of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics
Bulletin No. 192, p. 61.
2 Unemployment and Work of Employment Offices, Bulletin of U. S.
Bureau of Labor No. 109, pp. 5, 37 (Oct., 1912).
3Made in August, 1915, and cited supra, p. 602, note 1. Between
1914 and this date six States had legislated on the subject. ,See Unemployment Survey, 1914-1915. 5 American Labor Legislation Review,
p. 560.

ADAMSv. TANNER.
244 U. S.

BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

in the system. Where the States and cities have spent
much money for inspectors and complaint adjusters there
has been considerable improvement in the methods of
private employment agencies, but most of the officers
in charge of this regulation testify that the abuses are in
'the nature of the business' and never can be entirely
eliminated. They therefore favor the total abolition of
private labor agencies. This is also the common opinion
among working people, and in the several States attempts have already been made to accomplish this by
law."
But the remedies proposed were not limited to the suppression of private offices charging fees to workers, and
the extension of the systems of state and municipal
offices. The conviction became widespread that for the
solution of the larger problem of unemployment the aid'
of the Federal Government and the utilization and develollment of its extensive machinery was indispensable.
During the seven years preceding 1914 a beginning had
been made in this respect. The Immigration Act of
February 20, 1907, c. 1134, 34 Stat. 898, 909, created
within the Bureau of Immigration and Naturalization a
Division of Information, charged with the duty of promoting "a beneficial distribution of aliens." The services
rendered by this division included, among others, some
commonly performed by employment agencies. While
it undertook to place in positions of employment only
aliens, its operations were national in scope. The Act
of March 4, 1913, creating the Department of Labor,
resulted in a transfer of the Bureau of Immigration, including the Division of Information, to that department.
(37 Stat. 736.) By this transfer the scope of the division's
work was enlarged to correspond with the broad powers
of the Labor Department. These were declared by Congress to be: "to foster, promote and develop the welfare of
the wage earners of the United States, to improve their*

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

working conditions, and to advance their opportunities for
profitable employment."
Then its efforts "to distribute" (that is both to supply
and to find places for) labor .were extended to include
citizens as well as aliens; and much was done to develop
the machinery necessary for such distribution. In the
summer of 1914, and in part before the filing in the State
of Washington of the proposal for legislation here in question, action had been taken by the Department of Labor
which attracted public attention. It undertook to supply

harvest hands needed in the Middle West and also to find
work for the factory hands thrown out of employment

by the great fire at Salem, Massachusetts, June 25, 1914.1
The division was strengthened by co-operation with other
departments of the Federal Government (Agriculture,
Interior, Commerce, and the Post Office with- its 60,000

local offices) and with state and municipal employment
offices.. As early as June 13, 1914, the United States Department of Labor had also sought the co-operation in
this work of all the leading newspapers in America in-

cluding those printdd in foreign languages.'
1The fire was so extensive that the Congress appropriated $200,000
for relief of all sufferers. Act of August 1, 1914, e. 223, 38 Stat. 681.
2Annual Report of the Secretary of Labor, 1914, pp. 48-55; Monthly

Review of the U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, July, 1915, p. 8; See
also Annual Report of the Secretary of Labor, 1915, p. 36: "Interdepartmental coaperation.-Through the coSperation of the Post Office
Department it became possible to bring to the aid of this labordistribution service some 60,000 post offices and thereby to create a
network of communication between employers needing help without
knowing where to get it and workers wanting employment without
knowing where to find it. Either employer or workman may obtain
at any post office in the United States a blank application supplied by
this department which, after filling out and signing it, he may deposit
in the mails anywhere free of postage." "Employment bulletins.The bulletins contain a statement of unmatched applications, no matter
what part of the country they may come from: It is not expected, of
course, that applications for work of a minor character will ordinarily

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

3. Conditions in the State of Washington.
The peculiar needs of Washington emphasized the defects of the system of private employment offices.
(a) The evils.
The conditions generally prevailing are described in a
report recently, published by the United States Department of Labor, thus: I
"In no part of the United States perhaps is there so
large a field for employment offices as in the Pacific States.
As has been noted, industrial conditions there favor inconstancy of employment. Much of the business activity
is based upon the casual, short-time job. This in itself
means the frequent shifting of workers from place to place.
And the shifting is the more difficult, as much of the work
offered is in more or less remote districts of the country...

"The necessity laid upon so many workers of constantly
seeking new jobs opens a peculiarly fertile field for
their exploitation by unscrupulous private employment
agencies. There is much testimony to the fact and frequency of such exploitation. The most striking evidence
of this is that in the State of Washington private agencies
made themselves so generally distrusted that in 1915 their
complete abolition was ordered by popular vote.
"Prior to 1914 there was practically no legislation regarding private employment agencies, and there had been
no attempt at State supervision of their conduct. But
be matched by applications for workers of that kind from distant
stations. It is assumed, however, that bulletined applications may
possibly be matched through the codperation of near-by stations within
a reasonable radius. The bulletins are also systematically sent to such
newspapers as have indicated their desire to receive them for possible
publication as news matter of interest to their respective readers."
1Labor Laws and their Administration in the Pacific States. United
States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Bulletin No. 211 (1917),
pp. 17-18.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDmis, J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

distrust of such agencies was constantly increasing and.
culminated in the year mentioned in the passage by popular initiative of an act aiming at the total suppression
of all private employment agencies of the commercial
type."
The reports of the Washington State Bureau of Labor
give this description:
"The investigations of the Bureau show that the worst
labor conditions in the state are to be found on highway
and railroad construction work, and these are largely
because the men are sent long distances by the employment agencies, are housed and fed poorly at the camps,
an& are paid on an average of $1.75 to $2.25 a day, out
of which they are compelled to pay $5.50 to $7.00 per week
for board, generally a hospital fee of some kind, always
a fee to the employment agency and their transportation
to the point where the work is being done. The consequence is that they usually have but little money left
when the work is finished and if, as frequently happens,
they work only a week or two and are then discharged
they are in as bad 'a situation as they were before they
went to work, and sometimes worse, if they do not have
enough money to get back to the place from which they
started." 1
"That the honest toiler was their victim there is no
question: not alone of a stiff fee for the information given
but a systematic method was adopted' in order to keep
the business going. Managers of agencies and managers of
jobs, their superintendents, foremen or sub-foremen, were
in this scheme for fleecing the workingman. Men in large
numbers would be sent to contract jobs and if on the railroads 'free fare' was part of the inducement, or perhaps
the agency would charge a nominal fee if the distance was
great and this, too, would become a perquisite of the
Washington State Bureau of Labor. Report -1913-14, pp. 27-28.

ADAMS v. TANNER.

244 U. S.

BRAiNEIs,

J., dissenting.

bureau to finally go through the clearing house. In many
cases men would be unsatisfactory, at least they would be
told so, discharged in a few days and sent adrift as poor,
may be poorer, than when they came there. New men
would have to be secured, and thus the thing would go on
revolving. So it went until at last it became so obnoxious
that the public indignation was at length aroused, resulting
in the passing of a law doing away with them." I
The abuses and the inadequacy of the then existing
system are also described by state officials in affidavits
included in the record.
(b) The remedies.
Washington had not tried direct regulation of private
employment offices; but that method was being considered
as late as 1912.2 Its people had had, on the other hand,
exceptional opportunities of testing public employment
offices. The municipal employment office established at
Seattle in 1894 under an amendment of the city charter
is among the oldest public offices in the United States.
Takoma established a municipal office in 1904, Spokane
in 1905 aid Everett in 1908.1 The continuance and increase of these municipal offices indicate that their experience in public employment agencies was at least
encouraging. And the low coist of operating them was
extraordinary. In Spokane the fees charged by private
agencies ranged from $1 upward and were usually about
Washington State Bureau of Labor. Report 1915-16, p. 120.
Washington State Bureau of Labor, 1911-1912. Report of Commissioner, p. 16: "It has been demonstrated that state control of employment agencies is the most effective way to properly regulate them.
I would earnestly recommend a state law similar to the one in Illinois
that went into effect July 1, 1911, and has proven to'be the best law
for this purpose in this country."
3 The first free public employment office in the United States was
the municipal agency established in Cleveland in 1890. Then followed
(in 1893) the Los Angeles office. Bulletin of United States Bureau of
Labor No. 68, p. 1 (Jan. 1907).
1

2

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

$2.' In the Seattle free municipal agency the cost of
operation, per position filled, was reduced to a trifle over
4 cents.2 The preliminary steps for establishing "Distribution Stations" under the federal system, including
one at Seattle, had been taken before the passage of the
Washington law.' Later branch offices were established
in thirteen other cities.4
1 Washington State Bureau of Labor Report 1913-14, p. 291.
W. D. Wheaton, Labor Agent.-" The complaint against the private
office is almost universal. Thb experience of this office is that private
agencies charge all that the traffic will bear and that in hard times, when
work is scarce and the worker poverty stricken, the fee is placed so
high as to be almost prohibitive, aLd the agencies take longer chances,
sometimes sending men on only a rumnor, depending on their financial
straits to make it impossible to return.
"The fees charged run from $4.00 for the poorest job of uncertain
duration to as high as 10 per cent. of the first year's salary in educational lines, and 30 per cent. of the first month's salary in office or
mercantile lines. Most of the agencies catering to the better class of
positions charge a registration fee which is worked to the limit-or
rather without limit. Advertisements for attractive positions are placed
with the newspapers and registration is made of all that apply, irrespective of whether the position has been filled or not, and generally at a
fee of $2.00 or more. This registration fee is always followed by a percentage of the earnings when a position is secured, but only a small
proportion of those registering are placed in positions.
"The average charge per position in all agencies will run high, and
yet the applicant c~tnnot having a feeling of security in the position
obtained for the reason that the great majority of private agencies are
primarily interested in the fee and are not as careful in placing applicants as they would be did the possibility 6f another fee not exist."
2 United States Bureau of Labor Bulletin No. 109, p. 136.
"The extremely low cost of each position filled is noteworthy, as is
the large number of positions secured. A total of 37,834 positions were
filled in 1906, and in 1909, 38,846. The cost per position was lowest iu
1906, only 4.03 cents. Oply twice since 1897 has the average cost gone
above 6 cents."
aSee Report of Secretary of Labor, 1914, p. 51.
4Aberdeen, Bellingham, Custer, Everett, Friday Harbor, Lynden,
N6osack, North Yakima, Port Angeles, Port Townsend, Spokane,

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

BRANDEIS,'

J., dissenting.

4. The FundamentalProblem.
The problem which confronted the people of Washington was far more comprehensive and fundamental than
that of protecting workers applying to the private agencies. It was the chronic problem of unemploymentperhaps the gravest and most difficult problem of modern
industry-the problem which, owing to business depression, was the most acute in America during the years 1913
to 1915.' In the State of Washington the suffering from
unemployment was accentuated by the lack of staple in-

dustries operating continuously throughout the year and
by unusual fluctuations in the demand for labor with
consequent reduction of wages and increase of social unrest.. Students of the larger problem of unemployment
appear to agree that establishment of an adequate system of employment offices or labor exchanges 3 is an inTakoma, Walla Walla. Monthly Review of U. S. Labor Statistics,
July, 1915, p. 9. See Report of Secretary of Labor, 1915, p. 36; 1916,
p. 54. Hearings Committee on Labor, on H. R. 5783, to establish a
National Employment Bureau. 64th Cong., 1st sess., February, 1916,
p. 49.
1The Unemployment Crisis of 1914-1915, 5 American Labor Legislation Review, p. 475.
2 Washington State Bureau of Labor Report, 1913-1914, pp. 13,
16-17. Unemployment Survey, 5 American Labor Legislation Review,
482, 483 (1915).
. Recent Advances in the Struggle against Unemployment, by Prof.
Charles R. Henderson, 2 American Labor Legislation Review, 105,
106 (1911)., "The point of starting ameliorative effort is the employment agency or 'labor exchange."'
"When we compare the ordinary employment office with the board
of trade for cotton or grain, or with the bankers' clearing-house, we
begin to realize 'how belated, rudimentary and primitive our present
labor exchange is. Yet the issues at stake are quite as vital in the case
of demand and supply in the labor market as in the stock and grain
exchange."
A Problem of Industry, 4 American Labor Legislation Review, p. 211:
"The labor market is unorganized, resulting in confusion, waste and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDEIS, J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

dispensable first step toward its solution. There is reason
to believe that the people of Washington not only considered the collection by the private employment offices

of fees from employees a social injustice; I but that they
considered the elimination of the practice a necessary
loss to employers and employees. It means suffering to individual
workers and their families, a lowering of the standard of living, impaired vitality and efficiency, and a tendency for the unemployed to
become unemployable, dependent, degraded. In fact, the demoralizing
effect of unemployment upon the individual is matched only by its
wastefulness to society."
The Prevention of Unemployment, 5 American Labor Legislation
Review, p. 176:
"An essential step toward a solution of the pr,blem of unemployment is the organization of the labor market through a connected network of public employment exchanges. This is vitally important as a
matter of business organization and not of philanthropy. It is of as
much importance for the employer to find help rapidly and efficiently
as it is for the worker to find work without delay. The necessity of
organized markets is recognized in every other field of economic activity, but we have thus far taken only timid and halting steps in the
organization of the labor market. The peddling method is still, even
in our 'efficient' industrial system, the prevalent-method of selling
labor. Thus a purely business transaction is carried on in a most
unbusiness-like, not to say medieval manner."
Public Employment Bureaus, Charles B. Barnes, 5 American Labor
Legislation Review, p. 195:
"Unemployment is no longer intermittent in this country; it has
come to be a chronic condition which needs to be dealt with in a regular and systematic manner. The first step in properly dealing with
this situation is the establishing of a series of co6perating public employment bureaus."
The Unemployed in Philadelphia, Department of Public Works
:(1915), p. 113.
What is done for the Unemployed in European Countries, U. S.
Bureau of Labor Bulletin No. 76, pp. 741-934; The British System
of Labor Exchanges, U. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, No. 206.
1Washington State Employment Agency Referendum, by W. M.
Leiserson, 33 Survey, 87 (October 24, 1914) :
* 'Any one who knows the employment agency business
and every

ADAMS v. TANNER.
244 U. S.

BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

preliminary to the establishment of a constructive policy
for dealing with the subject of unemployment.1
It is facts and considerations like these which may have
led the people of Washington to prohibit the collection
by employment agencies of fees from applicants .for work.
And weight should be given to the fact that the statute
has been held constitutional by the Supreme Court of
Washington and by the Federal District Court (three
judges sitting)-courts presumably familiar with the
local conditions and needs.
In so far as protection of the applicant is a specific purone who has tried earnestly to regulate private agencies will testify
to the futility of regulation.
"But the inherent justice of the proposed Washington act can be
shown in a better way. Ask the employment agent to whom he rendered the service and he will answer 'to employer and to employe.'
"'Then why don't you charge the employer?'
"'It is impossible. If we depended upon employers for our fees, we
would have to go out of business. They simply will not pay.'
"Every time this question is put to employment agents the answer is
the same: 'We charge the worker because we can get the fee from him
and we cannot get it from the employer.'
"This is the downright wrong against which Washington initiative
No. 8 is directed."
'General Discussion on Unemployment, 5 American Labor Legislation Review, p. 451; T. S. McMahon, Univ. of Washington.
"The people of the state of Washington are not indifferent to the
problem of unemployment nor do they show any tendency to offer
charitable panaceas as a permanent remedy. They are trying to work
out some constructive policy, and as a preliminary step have made it
illegal for employment offices to charge fees for jobs.
"A bill will be presented to the next legislature for the establishment
of a network of public employment offices all over the state. This will
make possible the complete organization of the labor market, which we
hope is the first step toward the organization of industry itself.
"The aggressive attitude of, the leaders among the workers has impressed upon the mind of the people the fact that the problem will have
to be met in another way than by providing food and clothing for a
period of distress such as we are passing through at the present time.
"I believe that this attitude on the part of the working people, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
BRANDEIS,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

pose of the statute-a precedent was furnished by the
Act of Congress, December 21, 1898, 30 Stat. 755, 763
(considered in Patterson v. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169)
which provides, among other things:
"If any person shall demand or receive, either directly
or indirectly, from any seaman or other person seeking
employment as seaman, or from any person on his behalf,
any remuneration whatever for providing him with employment, he shall for every such offence be liable to a
penalty of not more than one hundred dollars."
In so far as the statute may be regarded as a step in the
effort to overcome industrial maladjustment and unemployment by shifting to the employer the payment of fees,
if any, the action taken may be likened to that embodied
in the Washington Workmen's Compensation Law (sustained in Mountain Timber Co. v. Washington, 243 U. S.
219) whereby the financial burden of industrial accidents
is required to be borne by the employers.
As was said in Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.366, 387:
in view of the fact that from the day Magna
Charta was signed to the present moment, amendments
to the structure of the law have been made with increasing
frequency, it is impossible to suppose that they will not
continue, and the law be forced to adapt itself to new conditions of society, and, particularly to the new relations
between employers and employds as they arise."
In my opinion, the judgment of the District Court
should be affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE

HouwEs and MR.JUSTicE CLAR x concur

in this dissent.
is characteristically western, will do more towards the solution of this
,problem than perhaps we, who discuss it in a theoretical way, can
accomplish. They do have some plan of action, and some definite
program. Either we shall have to work out some program of ultimate
solution of unemployment, or we will have to accept the solution they
are offering us. The one they are offering us is socialism."

