VAN DYKE v. GEARY.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

VAN DYKE ET AL. v. GEARY ET AL., MEMBERS
OF THE CORPORATION COMMISSION OF THE
STATE OF ARIZONA, ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA.
No. 52. Argued March 23, 1917.-Decided May 7, 1917.
In a case governed by Judicial Code, § 266, where the jurisdiction of
the District Court is invoked upon constitutional questions, this
court, upon appeal from an order denying preliminary injunction,
has jurisdiction to review the whole case. Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298.
Extension of the power of the Corporation Commission to the regulation of water systems belonging to individuals, as provided in the
Public Service Corporation Act of Arizona (Rev. Stats., 1913, Title 9,
c. XI), is permitted by the Constitution of Arizona, Art. XV.
In the absence of an authoritative decision of the Supreme Court of the
State to the contrary, a contemporaneous construction of the state
constitution by an act of the legislature which is reasonable in itself
and designed to accomplish the obvious purpose of the constitutional
provision in question should be followed by this court.
Art. IV, pt. 2, § 13, of the Arizona Constitution requiring that acts of
the legislature shall embrace but one subject and matters properly
connected therewith, which subject shall be expressed in the title, is
sufficiently complied with by the Arizona Public Service Corporation Act, supra, although that act applies to individuals as well as
corporations, while its title refers to corporations and makes no
mention of individuals.
One who uses his property in supplying a large community with water
thereby clothes.such property with a public interest and subjects
the business to public regulation.
Where it is conceded that the purpose of a water system is to supply
water to the residents. and inhabitants of a particular townsite,
though not to outsiders or the public generally, the mere fact that the
lots of the townsite were originally purchased from the owner of the
water system with the oral understanding that water could be secured
from that system for use on the lots has no tendency to support the
claim that the system furnishes water only to particular individuals

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

in pursuance of private contracts made with such lot purchasers
and is hence devoted exclusively to private use.
The fact that service is limited to a part of a town does not prevent a
water system from being a public utility.
Water rates fixed by a state commission upon a basis of a net annual
return of 10% of the value of the property employed, allowing an
annual depreciation charge of 3Y2%, Hel4 not confiscatory, the valun
tion oethe,.Oater system and estimate of operating expenses having
been made by the state commission and concurred in by the District
Court after careful inquiry by both, the evidence presented-to this
court being conflicting, and the District Court having appropriately
protected the complaining party by providing that application for
injunction may'be renewed after one year if the rates appear too low.
218 Fed. Rep. 111, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. William C. Prentiss,with whom Mr. . C. Jacobs
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr. Wiley E. Jones,
Attorney General of the State of Arizona, and Mr. R. Win.
Kramer and Mr. Geo. W. Harben, Assistant Attorneys
General of the State of Arizona, were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
In 1909 Ida A. Van Dyke and her husband organized
a corporation under the name of the Miami Townsite
Company to acquire a tract in Gila County, Arizona,
and establish a town thereon. A large part of Miami -s
now located on that land. In order to supply residents
and others thereon with water for domestic, commercial
and fire purposes, the Van Dykes introduced a water
system which developed rapidly. In October, 1913, the
Arizona Corporation Commission, a public service corn-

VAN DYKE v. GEARY.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mission with the usual powers of regulation, instituted

before itself a proceeding to have the rates charged by the
water system declared excessive, and to have reasonable
rates established. The Van Dykes, who were duly served,
filed a 'plea in bar"; alleged that the plant was the individual property of Ida -A. Van Dyke; that the business
was operated by her with her husband as manager, and
not by a corporation; and denied not only the validity
of the order but also the jurisdiction of the commission
over them. The objection to the jurisdiction was overruled; and the commission proceeded to a hearing on the
merits, at which the Van Dykes offered no evidence.
On May 1, 1914, after an elaborate report, an order was
entered greatly reducing the water rates. The Van Dykes
promptly filed a motion for a rehearing, which was denied.
Thereupon they applied to the commission to stay the
operation of the order pending proceedings for review in
the state court. This application also was denied. Then
they filed, in the District Court of the United States for
the District of Arizona, this suit against the members of
the commission, the Attorney General of the State and
the county attorney to enjoin the enforcement of the order
and the prosecution for penalties for failure to observe-the
same; and to have the order itself cancelled.
Both plaintiffs and defendants are citizens and residents of Arizona. Jurisdiction of the federal court was
invoked solely on the ground 'that the order of the commission, if enforced, would deprive plaintiffs of their
property in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment; and
that the penalties prescribed by the Arizona statute for
failure to obey the order are so severe as to prevent resort
to the remedies therein provided for testing in the state
courts the validity of the orders. An interlocutory injunction was applied for; and the case was heard before
three judges under § 266 of the Judicial Code. The jurisdiction of the court was sustained under the rule declared

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 t. S.

in Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 123; but the court refused
relief against the order reducing water rates, saying:
"The evidence submitted by the complainants does not
afford this Court a satisfactory basis on which to adjudicate the question of the value of the property used as a
water plant, and therefore the Court cannot say that the
rates prescribed by the Corporation Commission are confiscatory, and there is no basis on which an order could be
made declaring them illegal. If hereafter it shall appear
that under actual operation of the plant under these rates,
the return allowed by such Corporation Commission
operates as a confiscation of the property of complainant,
Ida, A. Van Dyke, she may, at the expiration of one year,
again present her evidence to the Court and obtain appropriate relief on the facts then presented.
"The Court will retain jurisdiction of the case with permission to complainant, Ida A. Van Dyke, if so advised,
after the expiration of one year, to renew her application
for an injunction against the rates established by the
Corporation Commission as confiscatory. In the meantime the rates established will remain in force."
From an order entered in accordance with this opinion
the Van Dykes appealed; and this court has jurisdiction
to review the whole case. Louisville & Nashville.R. R. Co.
v. Garrett, 231 U. S. 298.
The errors alleged are, in substance, as follows:
First:That the Arizona Constitution and Public Service
Corporation Act were construed and applied to subject
property owned and operated by a natural person to regulation, as a public service corporation.
Second: That a water system established for the purpose
of furnishing water only to purchasers of lots from the
Miami Townsite Company was treated as a public water
system.
Third: That the rates fixed are confiscatory.
These alleged errors will be considered in their order.

VAN DYKE v. GEARY.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1. Whether the Arizona Corporation Commission had
jurisdictionto regulate a water system owned by an individual.
Arizona was admitted as a State February 14, 1912; and
on that date its constitution, which had been adopted
December 9, 1910, took effect. By Article XV it created
(§ 1) a corporation commission with full power to establish reasonable rates in the public services; and declared
(§ 2) that corporations engaged in furnishing water "shall
be deemed public service corporations." The Arizona
Public Service Corporation Act (Ariz. Rev. Stats. 1913,
Tit. 9, c. XI) provides that the term "public service corporation" shall include "water corporation," § 2278 (z);
that "water corporation" shall include "every corporation
or person . . . owning, controlling, operating, or
managing any water system for compensation within this
State," § 2278 (x); that the term "person" includes an
individual, § 2278 (d); and that the term "water system"
shall include all property used in the supply, or distribution of water "for municipal, domestic, or other beneficial
use," § 2278 (w). it is clear that the legislature intended
that the powers of the Corporation Commission should
extend to plants owned and operated by individuals, and
that the language used by it was adequate to express that
intent. But it is insisted that provisions of the Arizona
Constitution forbid the grant of such a power by the legislature; and the question resolves itself into this: Are the
terms " corporation" and" public service corporation" in
Article XV of the constitution, used in the limited sense
of incorporated companies, or do they include all public utilities both incorporated and unincorporated and
whether they be firms or individuals?
Article XV, entitled "The Corporation Commission,"
consists of nineteen sections,1 and confers broad powers of
Included are the following:
"Section 1. A Corporation Commission is hereby created to be corn-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

regulation. The character of the service, that is, whether
it is public or private, and not the character of the ownership, determines ordinarily the scope of the power of
regulation. The need of such regulation and the manner
of exercising it are the same, whether a public utility is
incorporated or not; and the purpose of a public service
commission could easily be frustrated if concerns owned by
individuals were excluded from its operation. The District Court accordingly declined to give a technical meanposed of three persons, who shall be elected at the general election to
be held under the provisions of the enabling Act approved June 20,
1910, and whose term of office shall be co-terminous with that of the
Governor of the State elected at the same time, and who shall maintain
their chief office, and reside, at the State Capital.
"Sec. 2. All-corporations other than municipal engaged in carrying
persons or property for hire; or in furnishing gas, oil, or electricity for
light, fuel, or power; or in furnishing water for irrigation, fire protection,
or other public purposes; or in furnishing, for profit, hot or cold air or
steam for heating or cooling purposes; or in transmitting messages or
furnishing public telegraph or telephone service, and all corporations
other than municipal, operating as common carriers, shall be deemed
public service corporations.
"Sec. 3. The Corporation Commission shall have full power to, and
shall, prescribe just and reasonable classifications, to be used, and just
and reasonable rates and charges to be made and collected, by public
service corporations within the State for service rendered therein, and
make reasonable rules, regulations, and orders, by which such corporations shall be.governed in the transaction of business within the State,
and may prescribe the forms of contracts and the systems of keeping
accounts to be used by such corporations in transacting such -business,
and make and enforce reasonable rules, regulations, and orders for the
convenience, comfort, and safety,, and the preservation of the health,
of the employees and patrons of such corporations; Provided, that incorporated cities and towns may be authorized by law to exercise
supervision over public service corporations doing business therein,
including the regulation of rates and charges to be made and collected
by such corporations: Provided further, That classifications, rates,
charges, rules, regulations, orders, and forms or systems prescribed or
made by said Corporation Commission may from time to time be
amended or repealed by such Commission."

VAN DYKE v. GEARY.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing to the term "publin, service corpofation," arid interpreted it in the broad popular sense as embracing all
public utilities. That construction is in line with numerous decisions holding that statutes imposing certain liabilities on "railroad corporations" embrace all railroads
whether individually or corporately owned.'
It is contended that Article XIV, entitled "Corporations other than Municipal," renders this liberal construction ot Article XV inadmissible. Section 1, of Article XIV
defines "'corporation,' as used in this article . . . to
include all associations and joint stock companies having
any powers or privileges of corporations not possessed by
individuals or co-partnerships"; and § 16 provides that
the records of "all public service corporations" shall at
all times be subject to the inquisitorial powers of the State.
It is argued that the term "public service corporation,"
thus excluding individually-owned utilities, could hardly
have a different meaning in the very next article of the
constitution. But the answer is that Article XIV deals
only'with the organization, incorporation, management
and powers of technical corporations, and the definition
therein of "corporation" is for that reason expressly
limited by the phrase "as used in this Article." This is
significant and is entirely in harmony with the view that
the term as used in some other article having a wholly
different purpose, should bear a different and broader
construction.
Furthermore, the powers of the Arizona Corporation
Commission are not limited to those expressly granted by
the constitution. Section 6 of Article XV authorizes the
legislature to "enlarge the powers and extend the duties
of the Corporation Commission"; and the legislature, by
Union PacificRy. Co. v. De Busk, 12 Colorado, 294, 304; Pittsburgh,
C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Lightheiser, 168 Indiana, 438; Schus v. PowersSimpson Co., 85 Minnesota, 447, 450-451; Lewis v. Northern Pacific Ry,
Co., 36 Montana, 207, 218.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

defining "water corporation" to include "persons" owning a water utility, clearly extends the powers of the
commission to individually-owned concerns. So that even
if the commission was not originally vested by the constitution with power over utilities owned by individuals,
it now has that power directly by legislative enactment.
In other words the constitution prescribed a certain minimum of power with which the commission was intrusted;
it authorized the legislature to enlarge from time to time
the scope of the commission's duties; and the legislature
extended them to water concerns .owned by individuals.
This construction of the Arizona Constitution by the
District Court is in harmony with the- contemporaneous
construction evidenced by the Public Service Corporation Act (supra) enacted at the first session of its legislature. In the absence of an authoritative decision of the
Arizona Supieme Court- to the contrary, this legislative
construction, reasonable in itself and designed to accomplish the obvious, purpose of the constitutional provision,
ought not to be set aside by this court. Louisville & Nashville R..R. Co, v. Garrett, 231 U. S.298, 305.
Appellants contend also that even if the legislature had
power to extend the jurisdiction of the Corporation Commission to water systems owned and operated by individuals, the Public Service Corporation Act was, in this
respect, invalid under Article IV, Part 2, § 13 of the Arizona Constitution, because this purpose was not expressed
in the title of that act.' Constitutional provisions reIThe Arizona Constitution (Art. IV, Part 2, § 13) provides that:
"Every Act shall embrace but one subject and matters properly
connected therewith, which subject shall be expressed in the title; but
if any subject shall be embraced in an Act which shall not be expressed
in the title, such Act shall be void only as to so much thereof as shall
not be epibraced in the title."
The Act is entitled:
"An Act relating to Public Service Corporations, Providing for the

VAN DYKE v. GEARY.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

quiring the subject of legislative acts to be embraced in
the title are not to be given a strained and narrow construction for the purpose of nullifying legislation. The
"subject," as expressed in the title, is the-regulation of
"public service corporations"; and the provision in the
act that "public service corporations" shall include "persons" owning a public utility is a matter obviously connected therewith.
2. Whether the Van Dyke Water System is a private
business.
The Van Dyke system appears to be the only water
supply of the' inhabitants of the original town of Miami
(not including the "additions"). The number of water
takers is not shown. But it appears that the large consumers who used meters numbered, at the time of the
commission's investigation, 675, yielding a revenue of
$11,378.10; and that the number of small takers must have
been much larger, since the revenue derived from the flat
rates was $14,517.35. "Property does become clothed
with a public interest when used in a manner to make it
of public consequence, and affect the community at
large." Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113, 126. The property here in question was devoted by its owners to supplying a large community with a prime necessity of life.
That Mrs. Van Dyke pumps the water on her own land,
stores it in tanks on her own land and thence conducts
it through pipes all upon her own land (the strips reserved
in the streets for conduits being .owned by her), and
delivers it to purchasers at the boundary line between her
and their properties; and that lot purchasers bought with
the understanding that they might purchase water from
Mrs. Van Dyke's water system at rates fixed by her-are
Regulation of the Same, Fixing penalties for the Violation Thereof, and
Repealing Certain Acts; with an Emergency Clause."

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

all facts of no significance; for the character and extent
of the use make it public; and since the service is a public
one the rates ar9 subject to regulation.
Counsel contend that the use is not public, because water
is furnished only to particular individuals in fulfillment
of private contracts made with the purchasers of townsite
lots. But there is nothing in the record to indicate that
such is the fact. Purchasers seem to have bought merely
with the oral understanding that water could be secured
from the Van Dyke system. Affidavits filed by appellants
state expressly that their water system is operated "for
the purpose of supplying the residents and inhabitants
of said Miami Townsite with water, and not for the purpose of supplying persons outside of said townsite, or the
public generally with water." The offer thus is to supply
all the "inhabitants" within the given area; and that of
course includes, sub-vendees, tenants -and others with
whom the Van Dykes had no contract relations. The
fact that the service is limited to a part of the town of
Miami does not prevent the water system from being a
public utility. See Del Mar Water &c. Co. v. Eshleman,
167 California, 666, 681-3.
3. Whether the rates fixed are confiscatory.
The commission decided that the net return to the
owner upon the value of the property employed should
be at the rate of at least ten per cent., after allowing an
annual depreciation charge of three and one-half per cent.
Water rates prescribed on this basis obviously cannot be
held confiscatory unless either the valuation placed upon
the property used was grossly inadequate or the cost of
operation greatly underestimated. These elements are
largely matters of fact and opinion, as to which both the
commission and the District Court, after careful examination, found against the appellants. The case is presented
to us on contradictory affidavits dealing with the items

TOLEDO RAILWAYS &c. CO. v. HILL.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

of value which go to make up the water system. We cannot say "that it was impossible for a fair-minded board
to come to the result which was reached." San Diego Land
& Town Co. v. Jasper, 189 U. S. 439, 442; Knoxville v.
Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 18. And the provision
in the order of the District Court by which it retained
jurisdiction of the case with permission to Mrs. Van Dyke
to renew her application for an injunction after one year,
if the rates fixed appeared to be confiscatory, afforded her
appropriate protection.
The decree of the District Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS dissents.

TOLEDO RAILWAYS & LIGHT COMPANY v. HILL
ET AL., EXECUTORS OF KIRK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 200. Argued April 23, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
An objection to the jurisdiction of the District Court based on the defendant's being a corporation not doing business in the State and
upon want of representative capacity In the person served, is not
waived by answering to the merits after a motion to quash the service
is overruled, where the answer reasserts the jurisdictional point
also, where the defendant participates in the trial only by reiterating
the objection and where the judge presiding treats the ruling on the
motion as conclusive because made by an associate.
Provision made by a corporation for payment of its bonds and coupons
at an office in a particular State and payment of coupons accordingly
does not constitute such a doing of business in that State as renders
the corporation liablp to be sued there. So held where the action was
upon some of the bonds.

