OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

244 U. S.

WASHINGTON RAILWAY & ELECTRIC COMPANY
v. SCALA, ADMINISTRATRIX OF SCALA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 826. Argued May 8, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.

The court has jurisdiction by writ of error to review this judgment of
the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia in a case arising
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act of April 22, 1908, 35
Stat. 65, as amended April 5, 1910, 36 Stat. 291.
Defendant was incorporated as an ordinary railway company (as distinguished from a street railway company), with full powers of
eminent domain, and owned a line of electric railway built largely
on a private right of way from a terminus in the District of Columbia
to a terminus in Maryland, which it operated as a common carrier
of passengers for hire between those termini. Held that it came
within the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
If the declaration alleges that the injuries charged to defendant's
negligence caused plaintiff's intestate to "suffer intense pain," an
amendment at trial adding that deceased endured "conscious pain
and suffering" is but an elaboration of the existing statement, and
is not open to the objection that it introduces a new cause of action
barred by the two year limitation of the Federal Employers' Liability
Act.
Maintaining a trolley pole closer to the track than others on the line,
and so close that a conductor can not safely discharge his duties,
affords ample ground for a finding of negligence by the jury.
45 App. D. C. 484, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. John S. Barbour, for plaintiff in error, in support of
the jurisdiction, contended that the various sections of the
Employers' Liability Act of 1908, with the amendments

of 1910, were meant to constitute a single law operative
throughout the Union, as is apparent upon their perusal.

WASHINGTON RY. & ELEC. CO. v. SCALA.
244 U. S.

631

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Section 2 cannot be considered and administered alone
any more than can. § 1. The other sections which coordinate with both are general in their natute and operation, cannot be construed finally b; one authority for the
District of Columbia and by another for the country at
large, and are not the 'result of. the exercise of the power
of Congress to govern the District but come from its
power over interstate commerce. The construction of the
other sections is involved in this case. Furthermore,
plaintiff's cause of action was based on § 1 as shown by the
allegations of the surviving counts of the declaration and
by the position assumed by her counsel in the court below.
Even if § 2, taken by itself, could be treated-as a local law,
the remaining sections are nevertheless parts of a general
law. American Security & Trust Co. v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S. 491; Washington, Alexandria & Mt. Vernon
Ry. Co. v. Downey, 236 U. S. 190; McGowan v. Parish,
228 U. S. 312.
It must be remembered that, in the Downey Case, while
the liability sustained rested purely upon the plenary local
power of Congress, the act was held applicable to the case
of an employee engaged in interstate commerce because,
as a local statute, it governed in the absence of legislation
of a general character governing the subject.
Appellant as a matter of law was not to be held a common carrier by railroad within the meaning of § 1 of the
Act of 1908. Its charter (29 Stat. 246), which was in
evidence, expressly forbids it from operating steam cars,
locomotives, or passenger or other cars for steam railways. Other evidence also showed that it was chartered
as a street railway company only and did business only
as such. It carried no freight.
The rule of construction is that,, unless from the context a different meaning appears, the term "common
carrier" applies only to carriers of property and not to carriers of persons merely. New York Central & Hudson River

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

244 U. S.

R. R. Co. v. Shirley, 120 N. Y. Supp. 192; Brewer v. Railway Company, 45 Hun, 595; Central Railroad of Georgia v.
Lippman, 110 Georgia, 665; Bouvier; Hutchison on Carriers, § 47; Greenleaf on Evidence, Vol. 2, § 211.
Assuming that a suburban street railway company
operated by electricity and carrying passengers only is a
common carrier, still it is not a "railroad" within the
meaning of the act. McLeod v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 125
Iowa, 270; Fallon v. West End Street Ry. Co., 171 Massachusetts, 249; Lundquist v. Duluth Street Ry. Co., 65
Minnesota, 387; Funk v. St. Paul Street Ry. Co., 61 Minnesota, 435; Sams v. St. Louis & Merrimac R. R. Co., 174
Missouri, 53; Godfrey v. St. Louis Tourist Co., 107 Missouri, 193; Johnson v. Metropolitan Street Ry. Co., 104
Mo. App. 588; Riley v. Galveston City Ry. Co., 13 Tex.
Civ. App. 247; Norfolk Traction Co. v. Ellington, 108"
Virginia, 245. See Omaha & Council Bluffs Street Ry. Co.
v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 230 U. S. 324; Hughes
v. Indiana Traction Co. (Indiana), 105 N. E. Rep. 537.
Omaha & Council Bluffs St. Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, makes plain that the facts that a
street railway does a suburban as well as an urban business, is operated by electricity instead of horse power and
operates in part over a private right of way, do not give
it the character of a "railroad" within these acts. United
States v. Baltimore and Ohio S. W. Ry. Co., 226 U.. S. 14;.
Kansas City &c. Ry. Co. v. McAdow, 240 U. S., 51; Spokane
&c. Ry. Co. v. United States, 241 U. S. 344, and Same v.
Campbell, id. 497, all had to do with roads operating between cities, and carrying both passengers and freight
after the manner of steam railroads, and competing with
them-unlike the road of the plaintiff in error.
At'most the question of the character of appellant was
one for the jury and not for peremptory instruction.
The trial court erred in allowing a new cause of action
to be introduced by amendment after the evidence had

WASHINGTON RY. & ELEC. CO. v. SCALA.
244 U. S.

633

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

all been taken and the witnesses discharged, especially
one which was already barred by the limitation of the
statute under which such cause of action was permitted
to survive. The right of action for the conscious pain and
suffering of the deceased based wholly on the Act of 1908,
as amended in 1910, was not counted on nor damages
claimed under it in the declaration. The distinction between such a cause and the cause relied on prior to the
amendment is clearly shown in Michigan Central R. R.
Co. v. Vreeland, 227 U. S. 59; St. Louis, Iron Mountain &
Southern Ry. Co. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648; Garrett v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 308; Gt. Northern
Ry. Co. v. Capital Trust Co., 242 U. S. 144. Under the
declaration as originally drawn there was but a single
cause of action asserted, namely, the action for pecuniary
loss and damage resulting to the parents by reason of the
untimely death of their son. The pleading could not
justify a recovery under his surviving right of action.
See Hurst v. Detroit City Railway, 84 Michigan, 539. It
is contrary to the settled law to permit a cause of action
which has been barred by limitation, and which is not
even defectively pleaded, to be revived by an amendment
relating back to the beginning of the action. 25 Cyc. 1308,
31 id. 413; Nelson v. First Natl. Bank, 139 Alabama, 578;
Mohr v. Lemle, 69 Alabama, 180; Whalen v. Gordon, 95
Fed. Rep. 305; Schulze v. Fox, 53 Maryland, 37.
Seaboard Air Line Ry. v. Renn, 241 U. S. 290; Illinois
Surety Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214, and Missouri, Kansas
& Texas Ry. Co. v. Wulf, 226 U. S. 570, are to be distinguished as cases in which the amendments merely
extended or amplified statements of causes of action already set up.
The plaintiff in error did not waive its right to plead the
statute of limitations to the amended declaration by its
failure to object to the first amendment. The court below
disposed of this objection in its opinion,. citing Union

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

244 U. S.

Pacific Ry. Co. v. Wyler, 158 U. S. 285, in addition to
which, see Atlantic Coast Line Ry. v. Burnett, 239 U. S.
199, 201, holding that where a statutory right of action of
this kind is given, to be asserted within a stated period,
a plea of the limitation is unnecessary and the bar may be
claimed under the general issue.
Counsel also contended that there was a dearth of evidence of conscious pain and suffering; St. Louis, Iron
Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648; that
the amendment failed to assert a claim for pain and suffering in sufficient form; that allowance of the amendment
took defendant by surprise and that evidence should have
been taken on defendant's plea of the statute of limitations
to the amended declaration. They also made the points
that there was no negligence on the part of the plaintiff;
that, if there was, it was not the proximate cause and decedent assumed the risk; and that the trial judge erred in
the instructions concerning some of these matters.
Mr. Danel W. O'Donoghue, with whom Mr. Arthur A.
Alexander was on the briefs, for the defendant in error,
moved to dismiss the writ of error upon the ground that,
as applied to this case, the Employers' Liability Act of
1908, as amended in 1910, should be regarded as a local
act and not such a general law of the United States as
when construed affords jurisdiction to this court to review
a final judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District
of Columbia, under Jud. Code, § 250, par. 6. American
Security & Tr. Co. v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S. 491.
It was conceded in both courts below that the death of the
employee occurred about a mile out in the country westward from that part of the City of Washington which is
known as Georgetown, but within the limits of the District
of Columbia. Whenever the injury occurs within the
District the case is governed by § 2, of the Act of 1908.
The same reasoning which induced the court in Washing-

WASHINGTON RY. & ELEC. CO. v. SCALA.
244 U. S.

635

Argument for Defendant in Error.

ton, Alexandria & Mt. Vernon Ry. Co. v. Downey, 236
U. S. 190, to hold that the Employers' Liability Act of
1906, as applied to the District, was local, holds good in
respect of the Act of 1908. See El Paso & NortheasternRy.
Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 87. The fact that the general
-provision defining the application of the Act of 1908 is in
one section (§ 1), while that declaring liability in the
District and the Territories is placed in a separate section
(§ 2), makes the intention to regulate locally even clearer
than it was in the Act of 1906, where both aspects were
fused in one section.
The injury having occurred in the District, the fact
that it was also in the course of commerce between the
District and the State of Maryland does not bring the
carrier within § 1, because, as said in the Downey Case,
supra, the test whether the statute is general or local depends on the source of the legislative power exerted, that
is, whether it comes from the purely local power to govern
the District or the power over interstate commerce, and
whether in its general operation it was intended as a local
law. See Gutierrez Case, supra, p. 97.
If this court has jurisdiction by writ of error, the
anomalous situation results that judgments of the Court
of Appeals of the District in these cases may be reviewed
here as of right, while the jurisdiction to review such judgments when rendered by the Circuit Courts of Appeal
is cut off by the Act of September 6;, 1916, 39 Stat. 726.
The correct view is that § 1 of the Act of 1908 applies
to interstate commerce to or from the District only when
the injury occurs outside of the District. This is shown
by the fact that § 2 does not employ the language of § 1,
"in such commerce," but expressly provides that the
carrier shall be liable to any employee "suffering injury . . . in any of said jurisdictions."
When the case is governed by the local statute, namely,
§ 2 of the act, then necessarily §§ 3 to 9 are ancillary to and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

become part of the local statute. In local cases, all sections apply, except § 1; in an interstate case, where the
injury occurs outside of the District, all sections except
§ 2 apply.
If the court should hold that the plaintiff in error is not
a "common carrier by railroad" within the meaning of the
Act of 1908, the case should be disposed of, not by reversal,
but by dismissing the writ of error because the action then
would be governed by the Employers' Liability Act of
1906. See Employers' Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 497, and
El Paso & Northeastern Ry. Co. v. Gutierrez, supra. The
Act of 1908 expressly provides that the Act of 1906 shall
not be thereby repealed, and under Washington, Alexandria & Mt. Vernon Ry. Co. v. Downey, supra, the judgment in a case based on the earlier act would not be reviewable here.
MR. JUSTICE CLARYE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is before us on writ of error to the Court of
Appeals of the District of Columbia, and we shall refer
to the parties as they appeared in the trial court, the defendant in error as plaintiff and the plaintiff in error as
defendant.
On July 8, 1913, the plaintiff's decedent was a conductor
in the employ of the defendant, a common carrier of
passengers by an electric railroad, with termini as hereinafter described, and when standing or moving along the
"running or stepping board" of an open summer car, in
the evening after dark, his body in some manner struck
against one of the poles supporting the overhead wires
and he was so injured that he died within an hour.
The negligence charged in the third and fourth counts
of the declaration on which the case was tried is the placing
of the poles so close to the track that the decedent did
not have a reasonably safe place in which to discharge

WASHINGTON RY. & ELEC. CO. v. SCALA.

244 U.S.

637

Opinion of the' Court.

the duties required of him, and the allegations of these
counts bring the case within the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, approved April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65, as
amended April 5, 1910, 36 Stat. 291.
A motion by the defendant in error to dismiss the writ
of error for want of jurisdiction and a petition filed by the
plaintiff in error for a writ of certiorari, both of which were
postponed to the hearing on the merits, are denied.
Coming to the merits of the case we are confronted with
eighteen claims of error, which, however, resolve themselves into but three of substance sufficient to call for
attention; viz:
(1) That the defendant in error at the time of the accident was not a "common carrier by railroad" within
the meaning of the Federal Employers' Liability Act of
April 22, 1908.
(2) That the trial court erred in permitting the plaintiff to amend her declaration on the trial, after all the
testimony had been introduced, and at a time more than
two years after the accident had occurred, by inserting a
claim for "conscious pain and suffering" of the deceased.
This amendment, it is claimed, in effect allowed a recovery on a second and new cause of action after it was
barred by the two years limitation of the act.
(3) That the court erred in submitting the case to the
jury for the reason that no substantial evidence of negligence was introduced on the trial.
Four acts of Congress, the first providing for the incorporation of the defendant company and the other three
amending the first, were introduced in evidence on the
theory that they were private acts and otherwise would
not be before this court.
With these acts and the evidence and admissions shown
in the record before us, it is clear that the defendant was
incorporated as, and at the time of the accident complained of was, a railway company, not a street railway

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

company; that it had full powers of eminent domain;
that at the time of the accident complained of it owned
and operated a line of electric railway extending from
a terminus within the District of Columbia to a terminus
at Cabin John Creek, in the State of Maryland, a large
part of the line being constructed on a private right of
way, and that it was at that time a common carrier of
passengers for hire between its termini.
It is argued that under the decision in Omaha & Council
Bluffs Street Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
230 U. S. 324, the railway of the defendant was a street
railroad and that therefore the defendant was not a
"common carrier by railroad" within the terms of the
Act of 1908 as amended. That case dealt with a purely
street railway 'in the streets of two cities, and the decision
was that it was not a "railroad" such as was intended
to be placed under the jurisdiction of the Intersfate Commerce Commission by the Interstate Commerce Act of
1887. The case is of negligible value in determining either
the construction of the act we are considering in this case,
or the classification of the defendant, which clearly enough
is a suburban railroad common carrier of passengers
within the scope of the Federal Employers' Liability Act,
as is sufficiently decided by United States v. Baltimore &
Ohio Southwestern Ry. Co., 226 U. S. 14; Kansas City Western Ry. Co. v. McAdow, 240 U. S. 51; Spokane & Inland
Empire R. R. Co. v. United States, 241 U. S. 344, and
Spokane & Inland Empire R. R. Co. v. Campbell, 241
U. S. 497.
This first claim of error of the defendant must be denied.
Seven days before the case came on for trial, the court
granted leave to the plaintiff, no objection being noted,
to amend the fourth count of her declaration by adding the allegation that the injuries received by the deceased caused him to "suffer intense pain." After all
of the evidence had been introduced on the trial, the

WASHINGTON RY. & ELEC. CO. v. SCALA.
244 U. S.

.639

Opinion of the Court.

court, immediately before charging the jury, permitted
the plaintiff to further amend the third and fourth counts
of her declaration by adding to each the allegation that
the negligence of the defendant resulted in "conscious
pain and suffering" to the deceased. To the allowing
of this last amendment the defendant objected, and the
objection being overruled excepted, and it thereupon
answered the declaration as thus amended pleading "not
guilty and the statute of limitations of two years."
The death of plaintiff's decedent occurred on July 8,
1913. This amendment was allowed on October 29, 1915,
and it is urged that the effect of it was to allow the plaintiff to recover upon a claim that the deceased endured
"conscious pain and suffering," which would not have
been allowed without the amendment, and that such claim
was barred by the provision of the Employers' Liability
Act, that no action shall be maintained under it unless
commenced within two years from the time the cause of
action accrued. Before this last amendment the third
and fourth counts of the declaration stated a case of
negligence plainly within the terms of the Employers'
Liability Act and claimed damages for the death of deceased from injuries which the prior amendment alleged
caused him to "suffer intense pain." Under these two
counts as they then stood, testimony was admitted,
without objection, tending to prove that the deceased
suffered pain during the comparatively short interval between the time he was injured and when he lapsed into
the period of unconsciousness which preceded his death.
As we have seen, the fourth count, before the amendment objected to, alleged that the injuries received caused
the deceased to suffer "intense pain" and the added
allegation is that the injuries caused him "conscious pain
and suffering." The difference between the two, if there
is any difference at all, is too elusive for application in
the practical administration of justice, and the claim that

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

this amendment added a new cause of action to the declaration is too fanciful for discussion. At most it was a
slight elaboration of a probably sufficiently claimed
element of damage, and the allowance of the amendment
was well within the authority and the effect of Missouri,
Kansas & Texas Ry. Co. v. Wulf, 226 U. S. 570; Illinois
Surety Co. v. Peeler, 240 U. S. 214, and Seaboard Air Line
Ry. v. Renn, 241 U. S. 290.
A word will suffice for the claim remaining. The
trolley pole against which plaintiff's decedent struck was
shown to be considerably closer to the track than the
other poles on the line and it is sufficient to say that the
trial and appellate courts both found that the maintaining
of such pole so close to the track that a conductor could
not safely discharge the duties required of him, constituted
evidence of negligence sufficient to justify submitting the
case to the jury and with this conclusion we cordially
agree.
The record shows that the case was submitted to the
jury in a comprehensive charge sufficiently favorable to
the defendant and the judgment of the Court of Appeals
of the District of Columbia is
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE

did not take part in the considera-

tion or decision of this case.

