OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

bounds of reasonable regulation to establish through service and a joint rate. Wisconsin, Minnesota & Pacific
R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179 U. S. 287, 296, 301; Michigan
Central R. R. Co. v. Michigan Railroad Commission, 236
U. S. 615, 629.
The decree of the District Court, so far as appealed
from, is
Affirmed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissent
because they are of the opinion that this case as a matter
of authority is controlled by Detroit United Railway v.
Michigan, 242 U. S. 238, and that as a matter of original
consideration the assailed legislation has impaired the
obligation of a contract in violation of the Constitution
of the United States and was repugnant to the Constitution because wanting in due process.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

also dissents.

LANHAM, ADMINISTRATOR OF LANHAM, ET AL.
v. McKEEL.
ERROR TO TIIE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
No. 245. Submitted April 30, 1917.--Decided June 11, 1917.
An order of the Secretary of the Interior, approving an Indian agent's
recommendation that restrictions on alienation be removed from an
k dian's allotment, was made on March 26, "to be effective thirty
days from date." Held that the approval became effective on tne
thirtieth day after its date, i. e., on April 25th, and enabled the
allottee to make a valid conveyance on that day.

47 Oklahoma, 348, affirmed.

LANHAM v. McKEEL.
244 t. S.

Opinion of the Court.

TE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Orion L. Rider, Mr. Geo. E. Rider and Mr. E. S.
Hurt for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. F. McKeel (in propria persona), Mr. C. H. Ennis
and Mr. James E. Webb for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error presents but a single federal question,
and that is within narrow compass. The suit involves the
title to a part of the surplus allotment of Mary Jane
Lanham, who was a Choctaw Indian of, three-fourths
blood. Defendant in error claims title under a deed made
by her on April 25, 1908. It is conceded that because of
legislation by Congress prior to the Act of April 21, 1904,
c. 1402, 33 Stat. 189, 204, the land was inalienable, unless
the restriction upon its alienation had been removed by
an order of the-Secretary of the Interior, made pursuant
to that act. In conformity to its provisions, the United
States Indian Agent, after investigation, made the appropriate finding and recommended the removal of restrictions upon the alienation by Mary Jane Lanham of her
surplus allotment, and this was approved by the Secretary
of the Interior in writing under date of March 26, 1908,
in these terms: "Approved: This approval to be effective
thirty days from date." If either the day of the approval
or the day of the conveyance be included, thirty days had
expired on the day the deed was executed. The Supreme
Court of Oklahoma, following Taylor v. Brown, 147 U. S.
640, and Baker v. Hammett, 23 Oklahoma, 480, held that
the date of approval should be included in computing
the thirty-day period, 'and that therefore the deed was
valid. 47 Oklahoma, 348.
-In our opinion the decision was correct, although we
sustain it upon rrouds differing somewhat from those

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court..

244 U. S.

upon which the cited cases rest. In Taylor v. Brown,
the question arose under the proviso to ยง 15 of an Act of
March 3, 1875, c. 131, 18 Stat. 402, 420, that the title to
lands acquired by certain Indians under that section
should "remain inalienable for a period of five years from
the date of the patent." In Baker v. Hammett, the language in question was that contained in ยง 16 of the Supplemental Creek Agreement (Act of June 30, 1902, c. 1323,
32 Stat. 500, 503), to the effect that lands allotted to
citizens should not be alienated "before the expiration of
five years from the date of the approval of this supplemental agreement." In each case the statute contemplated a vesting of title accompanied with a prohibition
of alienation during a specified period, and it was held
that the initial date should be included it-the computation
because, but for the restriction, the land might have been
alienated on that date. Here the restriction upon alienation arose out -of antecedent legislation, and continued
until the effective approval by the Secretary of the Interior of an appropriate finding by the Indian Agent. The
approval was required to be, and in this case was, in
writing, and we have to do merely with its interpretation.
What, then, is the meaning of "effective thirty days from
date"? Certainly this cannot be construed the same as if
it read: "effective after thirty days from date.'? Plaintiffs in error, in argument, suppose it to have read: "effective one day from date," and ask whether in that event
it would have become effective immediately upon being
signed by the Secretary of the Interior. We answer
"No," but that it would have become effective on the
following day, that is, on the first day after its date. By
like reasoning, the order as written became effective on the
thirtieth day after its date, that is to say, on April 25th,
and enabled the allottee to make a valid conveyance on
that day.
Judgment affirmed.

