DOEPEL v. JONES.
.244 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

DOEPEL ET AL., HEIRS AT LAW OF FEARNOW, v.
JONES ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 571.

Argued May 8, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

A preliminary homestead entry, made in the Territory of Oklahoma
under agreement between the applicant and his mother that he
would make the entry, pay rent for the land while the entry was
being completed and deed the land to her upon the issuance of patent,
is absolutely void under ยง 24 of the act providing a temporary government for that Territory, etc. (Act of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26 Stat.
81), and confers no rights upon the applicant or his heirs.
When such an entry, because of the illegal agreement, has been provisionally cancelled by the Land Department during the entryman's
lifetime, and, after his death, one claiming to be his widow has relinquished her rights therein and made a new entry independently, in
her own right, the original entry can afford no basis for the entryman's heirs to contest the widow's entry before the Department
upon the ground that her marriage was void, if they do not deny the
illegal agreement or seekto have the original entry re-instated on its
merits.
The first entry, being a nullity, could beget no equity entitling the
heirs to affix a trust to the land when patented to the widow.
156 Pac. Rep. 309, affirmed.

IT is sought upon this writ of error to reverse a judgment
which sustained the validity of a patent issued by the
United States to the defendant in error, Luttie B. Jones,

under the homestead laws.

The controversy originated

in a suit brought by the plaintiffs in error charging that
the Land Department had without warrant of law overruled contests which they had filed against the right of the
defendant in error to take the land under the homestead
law and that therefore she held the patent for the same
in trust for their benefit.
The facts stipulated or shown by documentary evidence as to which there is no dispute, are these: Hollen

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

244 U. S.

H. Fearnow being qualified to make a homestead entry,
applied in 1899 to' make such entry in his own name.
Before making the application he had agreed with his
mother, for a promised consideration, that he would
make the entry, comply with the homestead laws and pay
rent for the use of the land in the meanwhile, and that
when the patent was issued it would be for her and not
for his account and he would deed the land to her. About
two years after the entry was made a marriage ceremony
was performed between the applicant and Luttie B.
Fearnow and they lived together as husband and wife
and resided on the land. Some years later after the marriage ceremony .and before final proof or patent, Lena
Barnes instituted in the local land office a contest against
the right of Fearnow to make the homestead entry. This
contest was based upon the fact that the agreement which
we have stated had been made and upon the charge that
under the law of the United States it absolutely disqualified him from making the entry. In December, 1903,
after .a hearing in the local land office the contest was sustained, the application by Fearnow was cancelled and an
entry by Barnes under the homestead law was allowed.
This order was taken for review to the Commissioner of
the General Land Office and in January, 1905, on the
ground of an irregularity or deficiency of notice in the
contest proceeding the order was reversed and the local
land office was directed "to appoint a day for the hearing
of this contest, of which both parties shall have at least
thirty days' notice. Upon the final determination of the
case, should plaintiff be held to have established the truth
of the averments of her affidavit of contest, said H. E.
No. 13690 [the Barnes entry] which is hereby suspended,
will remain intact; otherwise it will be cancelled and said
H. E. 10171 [the Fearnow entry] reinstated."
Ten months after this order the entryman, Fearnow,
died, it not appearing that in the intervening time any

DOEPEL v. JONES.
244 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

further steps were taken concerning the reinstatement of
his homestead entry, and after the elapsing of more than
a year from his death the entry-woman, Barnes, dismissed
her contest and relinquished her homestead entry. On
the same day, November 26, 1906, Luttie B. Fearnow,as
the widow of Fearnow, filed a relinquishment of his homestead entry and on that day also made her own application
to enter in her own individual right the land as a homestead and this application was allowed. The following
month the plaintiffs in error, asserting themselves to be
the heirs of Hollen H. Fearnow, and as such entitled under
the law to the benefits of his homestead entry and to complete the same, contested the application of Luttie B.
Fearnow on the ground that she was not his widow and
not entitled to the land as such because she bore such a
relation of consanguinity to her alleged deceased husband
as to cause the pretended marriage relation between them
to be incestuous under the laws of Oklahoma where the
land was situated as well as under the laws of Kansas
where the marriage between them purported to have been
celebrated. The local land office rejected the contest
following previous decisions of the Land Department
holding that the question of the existence of a marriage
was one for judicial cognizance and until its nullity was
declared or found by a competent court the marriage
was binding on the Land Department. The Commissioner of the General Land Office in reviewing, recited the
previous facts as to the Barnes contest, the action taken
upon it, the cancellation of the Fear.now homestead entry,
the setting aside of the contest proceeding and the order
made in it and affirmed the action on the authorities which
the local land office had relied upon. In reviewing and
sustaining this action on appeal the Secretary. of the Interior decided that the subject matter of the marriage
and its nullity was not primarily cognizable in the Inte-.
rior Department. Independently of this, however, his

OCTOBER TERM, 1016.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

action was placed in addition on distinct and different
grounds, as follows:
"But independent of this contestants have presented
no grounds upon which their contest can be sustained.
They do not allege a priority of right to make entry or
that the entryman has not complied with the law. Their
claim rests upon their relationship to Hollen H. Fearnow
and if they have any right whatever by virtue. of their
heirship to Hollen H. Fearnow it is a right to perfect his
entry, not to make entry in their own right. To avail
themselves of this right it would be necessary to reinstate
that entry and to show that it was improperly cancelled
not by reason of any technical objection in the procedure,
but upon its merits. Furthermore their delay in not
presenting their claim, even if valid, is a sufficient reason
for rejecting their application to contest this entry."
The consequence was to definitely reject the contest and
affirm the right to enter of Luttie B. Jones, she having
in the meantime remarried, and on the making of final
proof and compliance with the legal requirements a patent
for the land to her issued in March, 1909. This suit, as
we have said, was then begun for the purpose previously
stated, the basis of the relief being substantially the claim
which had been pressed in the controversy in the Department.
Mr. Samuel Herrick, with whom Mr. Milton Brown,
Mr. L. A. Maris and Mr. Cody Fowler were on the briefs,
for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. J. F. King, with whom Mr. W. P. Hackney and
Mr. L. D. Moore were on the brief, for defendants in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTCE WHirT, after making the foregoing
statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
It cannot be seriously disputed that if the agreement
was made by Fearnow, the original applicant, that he

DOEPEL v. JONES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

would make the homestead entry not for himself but for
the benefit of another, would during the time that he was
apparently taking the steps to complete the entry pay
rent for the land to such other person and when the patent
was issued deed the land to such person, such agreement
caused that entry to be absolutely void for repugnancy
to ยง 24 of the Act of Congress of May 2, 1890, c. 182, 26
Stat. 81. But as it was expressly stipulated that the facts
as to such agreement were true, it must follow necessarily
that the entryman derived no right from his entry and
transmitted none to his heirs and vested them with no
right after his death to complete that which was not
susceptible of being completed.
Moreover as it is not disputable that the Land Department in its final ruling against the contestants placed its
action upon the prior cancellation of the homestead entry
because of the particular agreement referred to which was
the basis of the Barnes contest, it must necessarily result
that there is an absence of the essential foundation upon
which alone the asserted rights of the plaintiffs in error
could possibly rest. But putting this latter view aside,
we are of opinion that the court below was clearly right
in holding that as the facts were admitted which absolutely
destroyed the effect of the original Fearnow homestead
entry and therefore caused it to be impossible for that
entry to be the generating source of rights in favor of the
plaintiffs in error, no .equitable rights arose in their favor
growing out of the cancellation of that entry and the issue
of the patent to the defendant in error. It seems superfluous to reason to demonstrate that no equitable right
to hold the patentee as a trustee could possibly arise in
favor of the plaintiffs in error since the application to enter
upon which they rely was in legal contemplation nonexistent and hence could afford no basis for equitable
rights of any character.
Affirmed.

