OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

We add that each of the patents of the petitioner being
in terms for an "improvement in tie-plates," the state of
the "prior art" as described in this opinion requires that
they be limited strictly to the form described in the claims,
and therefore the patents in suit, even if they had proved
valid, would not have been infringed by the plates manufactured by the defendant.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is

Afflrmed.
MR. JUSTICE DAY did not take any part in the decision
of this case.

HART STEEL COMPANY ET AL. v. RAILROAD
SUPPLY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 67.

Argued April 17, 18, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

A patent owner sued for infringement in two circuits, the defendants
being, in one case, a corporation which manufactured the articles
complained of, and, in the other, a second corporation whose shares
were owned, and whose conduct was controlled, by the first and
which, with its manager (joined with it as co-defendant), was acting
as the selling agent of the first corporation under its authority and
in its interest. The subject-matter and relief prayed were the same
in both suits. Held, that there was such privity between the defendants that a judgment against the plaintiff rendered by the Circuit Court of Appeals in the suit against the manufacturer was res
judicata as to the other suit, then pending before the Circuit Court
* of Appeals for the other circuit.
A decree against the plaintiff in a patent infringement suit was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit while its appeal

HART STEEL CO. v. RAILROAD SUPPLY CO.
244 U. S.

295

Opinion of the Court.

from a like decree in another suit involving the same controversy
was pending unheard before the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit. Held, that a motion for an affirmance, seasonably
made to the latter court and supported by certified copies of the
record and journal entries in the other case, establishing legal identity of the subject-matter and privity of the parties, was a proper
means of interposing the defense of res judicata, and that the motion
should have been granted.
222 Fed. Rep. 261, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Frederick P. Fish and Mr. Frank F. Reed, with
whom Mr. Edward S. Rogers was on the briefs, for petitioners.
Mr. Taylor .E. Brown, with whom Mr. Clarence E.
Mehlhope was on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit is here on certiorari to review the decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.
On December 9, 1908, the respondent herein, The Railroad Supply Company, as owner of three United States
patents, viz., Nos. 538,809, 091,332 and 721,644, filed a
bill in the District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois against The Hart Steel Company and Guilford S.
Wood, praying that the defendants be restrained from
infringing certain designated claims of its patents, which
are described in their specifications as covering new and
useful improvements in railway tie-plates. This case will
be hereinafter referred to as the First Case.
Three months later, on March 26, 1909, the same plaintiff commenced a second suit against The Elyria Iron &
Steel Company in the District Court for the Northern
District of Ohio, praying for the same relief with respect
to the same claims of the same patents as in the First Case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court .

244 U. S.

The two bills differed only as to the parties defendant.
The Elyria Iron & Steel Company, the defendant in the
Second Case, was a manufacturing corporation and was
the owner of all of the capital stock of The Hart Steel Company, the defendant in the First Case, which was the
selling agent of the Elyria. Company, and Wood was its
manager.
The same defenses being relied upon in the two cases,
the evidence was taken in the first one, and by stipulation
a carbon copy of it was filed in the second, and the same
exhibits were used in the two.
The claimed infringement consisted in the manufacture
of a single order of tie-plates by the Elyria Company and
the sale of them by the Hart Company, with Wood as its
manager, to the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railroad
Company.
Such proceedings were had in the First Case that on
December 18, 1911, the Circuit Court for the Northern
District of Illinois decided that the construction or device
sold by the defendants did not infringe the claims of the
plaintiff's patents relied upon, and dismissed the bill for
-want of equity.
In the Second Case such proceedings were had that on
March 4, 1912, the District Court for the Northern District of Ohio entered precisely the same decree as was
entered in the First Case.
Each case was appealed to the appropriate Circuit Court
of Appeals and on April 7, 1914, that court for the Sixth
Circuit, in a carefully considered opinion, found the claims
of the patents relied upon void for want of novelty and
invention and affirmed the decision of the District Court.
A petition for rehearing was denied on the thirtieth day
of the following June.
On the sixth day of October, 1914, the first day of the
next ensuing term of the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit, the defendants in the first suit, whicl

HART STEEL CO. v. RAILROAD SUPPLY CO.
244 U. S.

297

Opinion of the Court.

was still pending undetermined, filed a motion praying
that court to affirm the decree of the Circuit Court, upon
the ground that all of the issues in the case had been fully
and finally determined and adjudicated by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in the Second Case
between the plaintiff and The Elyria Iron & Steel Company, with which the moving defendants The Hart Steel
Company and Guilford S. Wood were in privity. In
support of this motion a copy of the record and journal
entries in the Second Case was filed which showed that
the two records were "identical."
The record shows that this motion to affirm the decree
of the Circuit Court was argued orally on October 6, 1914,
and was on the same day denied, but no reason appears in
the record for such denial.
Subsequently the case was argued on its merits and on
January 5th, 1915, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit found the plaintiff's patents valid and
infringed and, reversing the decision of the Circuit Court
(then the District Court) remanded the case with an order
for an accounting.
The Hart Steel Company and Wood, as petitioners in
this court, assign as error the overruling by the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit of their motion
to affirm the decision of the Circuit Court in their favor.
It is apparent from the foregoing statement that the
question presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit by the petitioner's motion to affirm was
whether or not the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Sixth Circuit was a final determination of the issues
presented in the case pending and not yet argued in the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit so as to
be res judicata and binding on that court because of the
identity of the subject-matter and the claims and because
of the privity of the parties.
The doctrine of res judicata is fully applicable to cases

OCTOB1ER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

of patent infringement, Robinson on Patents, ยง 983;
Walker on Patents, ยง 468, and while the record does not
show the grounds upon which the motion to affirm was
overruled, it does show that the motion was argued, was
considered by the court and denied. If authority be
needed' to the point that the claim thus made for the
effect of the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit was presented properly and in time it
may be found in Stout v. Lye, 103 U. S. 66; Sheldon v.
Patterson, 55 Illinois, 507; Howard v. Mitchell, 14 Massachusetts, 241.
There can be no doubt from the iecord before us that the
Elyria Company owned all of the capital stock of the Hart
Company, that the latter company was a mere sales agent
of the former, that Wood was the salaried manager of the
latter, that both the Hart Company and Wood were agents
subject to the control of the Elyria Company and that in
selling the tie-plates and as defendants in the litigation
they acted wholly under the authority and in the interest
of their principal. Identity of interest could not be clearer
or closer than it was between the defendants in the two
cases,-they represented precisely the same, single interest, and the Hart Company and Wood as agents of the
Elyria Company were obviously and necessarily privies
to the judgment rendered in its favor in the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Bank of Kentucky v.
Stone, 88 Fed. Rep. 383, affirmed in Kentucky Bank Tax
Cases, 174 U. S. 408; Emery v. Fowler, 39 Maine, 326;
Cdstlev. Noyes, 14 N. Y. 329; Emma Silver Mining Co. v.
Emma Silver Mining Co. of New York, 7 Fed. Rep. 401.
With the identity of the subject-matter and issues of the
two cases admitted, the privity of parties to them clear,
and the question of the ruling effect of the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit presented
in an appropriate manner to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit, a court of co6rdinate jurisdiction,

HART STEEL CO. v. RAILROAD.SUPPLY CO.
244 U. S.

299

Opinion of the Court.

we cannot doubt that the latter court fell into error in not
sustaining the motion of the petitioners to affirm the decision of the Circuit Court. The defendants should not have
been put to. further expense, delay and trouble after the
motion was presented. The question is ruled by Kessler
v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285; -Brillv. Washington Ry. & Elec.
Co., 215 U. S. 527, and Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606.
This doctrine of res judicata is not a mere matter of
practice or procedure inherited from a more technical
time than ours. It is a rule of fundamental and substantial justice, "of public policy and of private peace," which
should be cordially regarded and enforced by the courts
to the end that rights once established by the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be recognized by those who are bound by it in every way, wherever
the judgment is entitled to respect. Kessler v. Eldred,
supra.
The conclusion which we have reached in the Second
Case (Railroad Supply Co. v. Elyria Iron & Steel Co.),
this day decided, ante, 285, with respect to the merits
of the patents involved in this litigation is such that it
leaves our decision in this case uncomplicated by the one
in that. The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Reversed.
MR. JUsTc DAY did not take any part in the decision
of this case.

