LEHIGH VALLEY R. R. CO. v. BARLOW.

183

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

LEHIGH VALLEY RAILROAD COMPANY v.
BARLOW.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 194.

Argued April 20, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

An employee is not engaged in interstate commerce, within the xmeaning
of the Federal Employers' Liability Act, when his work at the time
of injury consists in placing cars owned by the carrier, containing its
supply coal, upon an unloading .trestle within its yards, and when
the interstate movement of the cars carrying the coal occurred as
long as seventeen days previously and the cars, with the coal, in the
meantime, have remained upon sidings and switches in the yards.

Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co. v. Harrington,241 U. S. 177.
214 N. Y. 116, reversed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Peter F. McAllister, with whom Mr. F. 0. McCleary
was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Clayton R. Lusk for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of
the court.
Basing his claim upon the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, defendant in error sought damages for personal injuries. The New York Court of Appeals affirmed a judgment in his favor, 214 N. Y. 116, and the question now
presented is whether there is evidence tending to show
that he was injured while engaging in interstate commerce.
The accident occurred July 27, 1912, when, as member
of a switching crew, he was assisting in placing three cars
containing supply coal for plaintiff in error on an unloading
trestle within its yards at Cortland, New York. These

OCTOBER TERM,. 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

cars belonged to it and with their contents had passed
over its line from Sayre, Pennsylvania. After being received in the Cortland yards-one July 3 and two July 10they remained there upon sidings and switches until removed to the trestle on the twenty-seventh.
We think their interstate movement terminated before
the cars left the sidings, and that while removing them
the switching crew was not employed in interstate commerce. The essential facts in Chicago, Burlington &
Quincy R. R. Co. v. Harrington, 241 U. S. 177, did not
materially differ from those now presented. There we
sustained a recovery by an employee, holding he was not
engaged in interstate commerce; and that decision is in
conflict with the conclusion of the Court of Appeals.
The judgment under review must be reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.

SMITH ET AL. v. THIRD NATIONAL EXCHANGE
BANK OF SANDUSKY, OHIO, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW
MEXICO.
No. 214.

Argued April 24, 25, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

Where lands, allotted as part of a Mexican community grant and for
many years occupied, improved and claimed in good faith under
color of such allotments and mesne conveyances, were excluded from
the grant by a decree of the Court of Private Land Claims determining its boundaries, Held, that a continuance of such occupancy
unfer the same and later mesne conveyances, with knowledge of the
decree, was not a trespass of the character forbidden by the act to
prevent unlawful occupancy of public lands (February 25, 1885, c.

