OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

58

Syllabus.

244 U. S.

on it could only have been raised by demurrer, therefore
under the Conformity Act (ยง914, Rev. Stats.) the motion
to quash the summons could not be entertained and on the
contrary should have been disregarded. We do not stop
to discuss the proposition since it is too clear for discussion
that its want of merit is foreclosed by previous decisions
of this court which have recognized and upheld the practice of challenging the jurisdiction under circumstances
like those here present by way of motion to quash instead
of by demurrer. Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518;
Wabash Western Railway v. Brow, 164 U. S. 271; St. Louis
Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218.
Affirmed

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES HORSE SHOE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.
No. 248.

Argued April 30, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

Concurrent findings of state trial and appellate courts as to the fact.
of negligence will not be overturned by this court in the absence of
clear error. Baltimore & 6hio R. R. Co. v. Whitacre, 242 U. *S. 169.
A carrier's printed form of contract for interstate transportation of
livestock, plainly intending to adjust the rates in each case proportionately to valuations to be made by the shipper which should limit
the carrier's liability, specified minimum or primary valuations for
various kinds of animals with corresponding tariff rates and left
blanks for insertion of the shipper's valuations connected with the
statement that the same were declared by the shipper in order to
avail himself of the alternative rates. In a case where the blanks for
valuations by the shipper were left unfilled at execution but the rate
charged and inserted in the contract was in accordance with the
carrier's tariff as applied to the primary valuations, Held that these

AMER. EXPRESS CO. v. U. 8. HORSE SHOE CO. 59
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

were the valuations adopted by the parties and that the carrier's
liability was limited accordingly.
Failure to post rates which are duly made out and filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission does not affect their validity or the
duty of a shipper to take notice of them.
A clause in a carrier's merchandise rate schedules providing that
rates there must not be applied to livestock shipments, construed
as intended to leave the provisions of the livestock schedule concerning rates and valuations for independent interpretation uninfluenced
by provisions in the merchandise schedules.
The effect of a contract made and signed by a shipper in lawful accord
with established rate sheets may not be avoided by the suggestion
that through neglect or inattention he did not read it.
250 Pa. St. 527, reversed.
THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Ch arles F. Patterson, with whom Mr. Francis R.
Harbison was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. Pitt Gifford for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
The subject-matter of this suit is the liability, if any,
of the plaintiff in error, the Express Company, for the
failure to safely deliver a colt which was entrusted to it
by the agent of the defendant in error at Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, for transportation to Erie, Pennsylvania,
and if there was any liability, the amount thereof. The
controversy is here to review the action of the court below
in affirming a -judgment of the trial court rendered on a
verdict of a jury finding that there was liability and
fixing the amount at $1,916.70. 250 Pa. St. 527. Jurisdiction to review rests upon the interstate commerce
character of the shipment involving various alleged misconstructions of the Act to Regulate Commerce and conse-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

quent deprivation of federal rights asserted to have arisen
from the course of the trial in the court of first instance
as also from the action of the court below in affirming.
These contentions in the courts below concerned both the
existence of liability and, if any, the amount. As the result, however, of the conclusion of both courts as to the
fact of negligence and the absence of any ground for clear
conviction of error on the subject (Great Northern Ry. Co.
v. Knapp, 24Q, U. S. 464, 466; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co.
v. Whitacre, 242 U. S. 169), as well as because of the limitations resulting from the errors assigned and relied upon,
the question of liability may be put out of view, thus reducing the case to a question of the amount, and that
turns on whether there was a limitation of liability and the
right to make it.
The printed form of contract (express receipt) which was
declared on and made a part of the complaint contained a
caption under a title "Notice to Shippers" directing their
attention to the fact that they must value their property
to be shipped and that the charges for transportation and
the sum of recovery in case of loss would be based upon
valuation. The contract itself was entitled "Limited
Liability Live Stock Contract." Its first clause described
the carriage which was to be provided for with appropriate
blanks to enable the insertion of the livestock which it
covered and the rate to be paid for the service with a
proviso that the charge was based upon valuation fixed
by the shipper. The second clause stated a demand by
the shipper for rates to be charged for the carriage and
that he was offered "by said Express Company alternative
rates proportioned to the value of such animals, such value
to be fixed and declared by the shipper, and according
to the following tariff of charges, viz:" This was followed
by clause 3 which oontained enumerations of various
classes of animals fixing a primary valuation for each
class, for instance:,"For . . . horses . . . $100."

AMER. EXPRESS CO. v. U. S. HORSE SHOE CO. 61
244 U.S.
"For

Opinion of the Court.
.

colts

.

.

.

$50."

The fourth and

fifth clauses provided that after ascertaining the rate to
be charged for all classes of animals embraced in clause
3 by applying to those classes the rate provided by the
tariff sheets filed according to law with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, there should be added to such
rate a stated percentage of the amount by which the declared valuation of the shipper exceeded the primary

valuation fixed by the terms of clause 3. The fifth clause
also concluded with the declaration that the shipper, in
order to avail himself of the alternative rates, had declared

a value as follows, and contained blanks for -the insertion
of said valuation.
There was filled in this blank contract, as signed by the
parties and as sued on, in the first clause a statement of
the animals shipped, a mare and colt, and of the rate, $75.
In the third clause. containing the enumeration of classes,
in the class as to horses valued at $100 there was written
"$100" and in the class as to colts valued at $50 there
was written "$50." There was no filling of the blank at
the end of the fifth clause stating the owner's valuation
and that space therefore remained vacant.
There was evidence tending to show that the shipper
was experienced in shipping horses and was informed of
the right to value and that the rate as well as the recovery
would depend upon valuation. Evidence was also admitted over objection of the company tending to show
that the shipper was unaware of the-valuation clauses and
that he signed the contract without reading it. There was
further evidence that on the contrary the shipper was
fully informed by the agent and declared his purpose to
fix the primary valuation and not to exceed it. In addition, evidence was tendered by the defendant which was
rejected and objection reserved, tending to show that in
consequence of the desire of the shipper not to change the
primarv valuation, that is to adopt the same, the figures

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

written into the clauses of ยง 3 of $100 as to the mare and
$50 as to the colt, were written by the agent inadvertently
in the wrong place, intending to write them at the space
left vacant for the shipper's valuation at the end of
clause 5, and that for the same reason the rate charged was
based on the tariff as applied to the primary valuation as
stated in the third'clause of the contract.
Putting out of view the conflicting tendencies of the
proof and looking at the subject-matter from the point of
view of the contract, that it was one intended to limit
liability, or in other words, to fix a rate according to value
at the shipper's election and to regulate recovery in case
of loss correspondingly, would seem too clear for anything
but statement. It is true the intimation is conveyed in
the argument that the alternative rate depended exclusively upon the making of a valuation by the shipper and
that where this was not done, there was no valuation and
no limitation and a consequent limited rate and unlimited
liability. But the suggestion disregards the stating of a
value in the different clauses of ยง 3 which are susceptible
of no other explanation than that they were intended as a
primary value to control as the basis for fixing the rates
and as a rule of limitation if the shipper did not by making
another and increased value become liable for a higher
rate and possess the right to a greater recovery. To adopt
the suggestion would require a disregarding of the plain
terms of the contract and would leave no basis upon which
to explain the rate fixed which clearly rested upon the
tariff as applied to the articles and the statement as to
value fixed in the third clause.
That it was in the power of the carrier under the Act to
Regulate Commerce as amended to limit liability even
in case of negligence by affording the shipper an opportunity to pay a higher rate and secure a higher recovery-than
the one initially fixed by the carrier, is so conclusively
settled as to be beyond controversy. Adams Express

,AMER. EXPRESS CO. v. U. S. HORSE SHOE CO. 63
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Company v. Croninger,226-U. S. 491; KansasCity Southern
Ry. Ca. v. Carl, 227.U. S. 639; Missouri, Kansas-& Texas
Ry. Co. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657; Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Cramer,232 U. S. 490; Grezt Northern
Ry. Co. v. O'Connor, 232 U. S. 508; Boston & kaine R. R.
v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Ry. Co. v. Robinson, 233 U. S. 173; Louisville & Nashville
R. R. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94; Pierce'Company v.
Wells, Fargo & Company, 236 U. S. 278; Cincinnati, New
Orleans & Texas PacificRy. Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S. 319;
New York Central & Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Beaham,
242 U. S. 148.
These rulings are decisive unless it be that for some
,reason they are inapplicable, and we briefly consider
separately the grounds relied upon as demonstrating that
result.
It is said the rate sheets filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission if they sustained the contract were not
posted and therefore the contract must be treated as.
having nothing to rest upon. But the proposition is adversely disposed of by several of the cases above cited.
Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. y. Carl, 227 U. S. 639, 652;
Boston & Maine R. R. v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97, 111; Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rankin,
241 U. S. 319, 327; New York Central & Hudson River
R. R. Co. v. Beaham, 242 U. S. 148, 151.
But -it is urged the contract of limitation was void
because it is shown to have been illegal, that is, repugnant
to the official tariff sheets filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission which, properly authenticated, were
offered in evidence. But, turning to the official tariff
sheets as found in the record, it is apparent that the terms
of the contract are substantially identical with the statement in the tariff sheets as to the rates concerning the
shipment of livestock and indeed, comparing the two, it is
impossible to reach any other conclusion than that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S,

provisions of the contract were copied from the provisions
of the tariff sheets. In substance the argument rests upon
the assumption which we have already disposed of, that
is, that the contract only provided for a limitation in the
event of a declaration of value by the shipper and left no
room for such a limitation where the shipper obtained the
lowest possible rate by making no valuation and accepting the primary limit of value stated in the contract by
the carrier. The-argument as we are now considering it,
however, proceeds not solely upon the text of the contract
and the tariff sheets concerning the carriage of livestock
but additionally upon the effect produced upon such provisions by clauses in the tariff sheets relating to the valuation of merchandise. The argument is this: That as in
the rate schedules dealing with merchandise .valuation
it is expressly provided that the primary limitation of
value fixed shall be the measure of the charge and liability
unless another and higher valuation be declared, such
rule ought not to be deduced from the provisions as to
livestock valuation where that stipulation is not found in
express terms, and hence that in the absence of an express
valuation in a livestock contract by a shipper no primary
limitation on value is possible and thus the rule of -the
lesser the rate the greater the responsibility would necessarily in the case of livestock come to pass. Incongruous
as this result would be, it is said that it should. be applied
since in the rate sheet concerning merchandise it is declared in paragraph d that "These charges must not be
applied to Live Animals, Live Birds or Live Stock (see
paragraph g)," that is, the livestock paragraph. But
to give to the clause the import claimed for it would be
to cause it to accomplish the very result which it was obviously intended to prevent, that is, the control or modifioation of the charges contained in livestock clauses by
the provisions as to merchandise charges. Indeed the
complete answer to the proposition is the one which we

AMER. EXPRESS CO. v. U. S. HORSE SHOE CO. 65
244 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

have previously pointed out in considering the argument
in another form of statement, that to accede to it would
require a plain disregard of the fixing of a primary valuation by the terms of the contract and the sanction of the
right to do so found in the express words of the rate sheets.
Finally it is said that the right to limit ought not to be
recognized in the presence of a controversy and conflicting tendencies of proof as to whether the limitation of
liability was called to the attention of the shipper and, if
one aspect be accepted, of the possibility that the contract
was signed by the shipper in ignorance of the clause. But
here again the contention but overlooks the very foundation upon which the principle settled by the adjudged
cases rests and disregards the express ruling in some of
them that the effect of a contract made and signed by a
shipper which is lawful from th6 point of view of the established rate sheets may not be avoided by the suggestion that by neglect or inattention the contract which was
entered into was never read. Cincinnati,New Orleans &
Texas Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rankin, 241 U. S. 319; New York
Central & Hudson River R. 1?. Co. v. Beaham, 242 U. S.
148, 151.
As from what we have said it follows that the shipper
should not have been permitted, after obtaining the lowest possible'rate based upon a valuation to which his right
of recovery in case of loss was limited, to recover upon the
happening of the loss an amount wholly disproportionate
and inconsistent with the rate paid contrary to the express terms of the contract, it results that the judgment below
must be and it is reversed and the case remanded for
further proceedingg not inconsistent with this opinion.
And it is so ordered.

