AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. CALDWELL.
244 U. S.

617

Syllabus.

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY ET AL. v. STATE
OF SOUTH DAKOTA EX REL. CALDWELL, AS
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF
SOUTH DAKOTA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.
No. 902. Argued April 13, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.

When the Interstate Commerce Commission finds that interstate rates
are unduly discriminatory as compared with competitive intrastate
rates and orders that the discrimination be abated, a further finding
that the interstate rates are not unreasonable implies an authority
to the carrier to maintain them and to raise the competitive intrastate rates to their level.
But findings that such discrimination exists and that the interstate
rates are reasonable do not necessarily imply a finding that the intrastate rates are unreasonable; both may be reasonable and yet produce
discrimination, which is a relative matter.
An order of the Interstate Commerce Commission directing carriers
to desist from discriminating against interstate commerce by charging
lower rates for local competitive intrastate traffic, may properly
leave to the carriers discretion to determine whether the discrimination shall be removed by lowering the interstate rates, or by raising
the intrastate rates, or by doing both.
Where the rates which a carrier seeks to alter, in avoiding the discrimination condemned by the Commission, are intrastate rates which
have been fixed by state authority, the Commission's order will
justify the carrier only in so far as the order makes definite the
territory or places to which it applies.
In cases where the dominant federal authority is exerted to affect intrastate rates, it is desirable that the orders of the Commission should
be so definite as to the rates and territory to be affected as to preclude misapprL-hension.
The territorial scope of the order of the Commission here involved is
ascertained (the order being on its face somewhat indefinite) by
referring from the order to the report accompanying and made part
of it, and thence to the maps of the railroads over which the report
states the appellant express companies operate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

A state law (Laws South Dakota 1911, c. 207, ยง 10, as amended by
Laws, 1913, c. 304) providing that no advance of intrastate rates may
be made except after 30 days' notice filed with a board of railroad
commissioners, and published; can not properly apply to changes in
intrastate rates which a carrier seeks to make in obedience to an order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, to abate discrimination
against interstate traffic.
A suit by a State to enjoin carriers from advancing intrastate rates
without first complying with state regulations will not be treated as
a suit, beyond the jurisdiction of the state court, "to enforce, set
aside, annul, or suspend in whole or in part" an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission (see Commerce Court Act, c. 309,
36 Stat. 539), where the Commission's order covers the proposed
advances in part only, is not mentioned in the bill and is not relied
on iff the answer as justifying them all.
38 S. Dak.

-,

modified and affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. C. 0. Bailey and Mr. Branch P. Kerfoot, with whom
Mr. T. B. Harrison, Mr. J. H. Voorhees and Mr. C. W.
Stockton were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Oliver E. Sweet, with whom Mr. Clarence C. Caldwell,
Attorney General of the State of South Dakota, Mr. P. W.
Dougherty and Mr. Byron S. Payne were on the brief, for
defendants in error.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk and Mr. Charles W. Needham, by
leave of court, filed a brief as amici curie on behalf of the
Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. John Barton Payne, Mr. R. B. Scott and Mr. A. P.
Humburg, by leave of court, fied a brief as amici curio
on behalf of the Illinois Central Railroad Co. et al.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1912 the Interstate Commerce Commission entered
upon a comprehensive investigation of express rates,

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. CALDWELL.
244 U. S.

619

Opinion of the Court.

practices, accounts and revenues. Its report 1 resulted
in the establishment, on February 1, 1914; throughout
the United States, of the so-called uniform zone and block
system of rates in interstate transportation and the prompt
adoption, in forty States, of the same system in intrastate
transportation.2 South Dakota did not adopt the national
system. It adheres to a schedule of maximum express
charges, known as Distance Tariff No. 2, which was
promulgated by its Board of Railroad Commissioners in
1911, and which, on weighted average, is about forty per
cent. lower than the zone and block system. Shippers of
Sioux City, Iowa, complained that the differences between these interstate and intrastate scales of rates resulted in unjust discrimination against them to the
advantage of their South Dakota competitors. Proceedings to secure relief were brought by them before the
Interstate Commerce Commission; and on May 23, 1916,
its report and order were filed. Traffic Bureau of the Sioux
City Commercial Club v. American Express Company, 39
I. C. C. 703.
This order,' couched in general terms, prohibited charg1 In

the Matter of Express Rates, Practices,Accounts and Revenues, 24

I. C. C. 380; 28 I. C. C. 132. The order was modified in some respects
in 1915; 35 I. C. C. 3.
228 Ann. Rep. of Interstate Commerce Com., p. 26.
3 "This case being at issue.upon complaint and answers on file, and
having been duly heard and submitted by the parties, and full investigation of the matters and things involved having been had, and the Commission having, on the date hereof, made and filed a report containing
its findings of fact and conclusions thereon, which said report is hereby
referred to and made a part hereof:
"It is ordered, That the above-named defendants, according as they
participate in the transportation, be, and they are hereby, notified and
required to cease and desist, on or before August 15, 1916, and thereafter to abstain, from publishing, demanding, or collecting higher
rates for the transportation of shipments by express between Sioux
City, Iowa, and points in the state of South Dakota, than are contem.poraneously published, demanded, or collected for transportation

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

ing after August 15, 1916 (later extended to September 15,
1916) "higher rates for the transportation of shipments by
express between Sioux City, Iowa, and points in the State
of South Dakota, than are contemporaneously
demanded .
.
for transportation under substantially similar circumstances and conditions for substantially equal distances befween Sioux Falls, Mitchell,
Aberdeen, Watertown and Yankton, South Dakota, on
the one hand, and said points in the State of South Dakota
on the other, which said relation of rates has been found
by the Commission to be unjustly discriminatory."
The order made "the report c6ntaining its findings of
fact and conclusions thereon" a part thereof; and the
report makes clear that the order applied only to competitive territory, and that this is the southeastern section
of South Dakota. The report also declared "that the
South Dakota rates are too low to be made the measure
of interstate rates between Sioux City and South Dakota
points;" that the existing interstate rates "have not been
shown to be unreasonable"; that no reason has been
presented for modifying them; and that the Commission
is "under no doubt as tp how the unjust discrimination
found to exist should be corrected"; but the report, did not
expressly state that the intrastate rates should be raised,
nor did it enumerate the competitive points in South
Dakota to which the rate adjustment should apply.
In July, 1916, the express companies conferred informally with the Board of Railroad Commissioners about
Introducing in South Dakota complete intrastate tariffs
corresponding with the zone, and block system scale, and
also about introducing special tariffs on that basis covering
under substantially similar circumstances and conditions for substantially equal distances between Sioux Falls, Mitchell, Aberdeen, Watertown, and Yankton, S. Dak., on the one hand, and said points in the
state of South Dakota, on the o ,her, which said relation of rates has
been found by the Commission to be unjustly discriminatory."

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. CALDWELL.
244 U. S.

621

Opinion of the Court.

rates between the cities of Sioux Falls, Mitchell, Aberdeen,
Watertown and Yankton and all other points in the
State. On August 5 the Board issued an order for a general investigation of express rates; and set for hearing on
December 4, 1916, that investigation as well as the applications to put into effect these special or general tariffs.
In an opinion then filed, it said:
"The rates which shall be put into effect to remove the
discrimination found by the Interstate Commerce Commission to exist in favor of jobbers at Aberdeen, Watertown, Sioux Falls, Mitchell and Yankton, and against
Sioux City and its jobbers, have not yet been determined.
As these rates are to apply on, intrastate traffic and between stations and over lines wholly within this State,
this commission [Board] is the proper tribunal to fix these
rates. To permit the putting into effect of two systems
of rates, one from the cities named and another from all
other cities in the State, would create an intolerable
situation."
On August 25, the express companies formally presented
to the Board the special tariffs, to become effective
September 15. And on September 12, the Board formally
refused to allow the same to be filed, and rejected thbem;
among other reasons, because the "schedules have not
been printed and published, and thirty days' notice of the
time when the said proposed classifications, tariffs, tables
and schedules shall go into effect has not been given to the
Board of Railroad Commissioners of the State of South
Dakota, and to the public, as required by the provisions
of Section 10 of Chapter 207 of the Laws of 1911."
On the same day the Attorney General' of South Dakota
and the Board of Railroad Commissioners brought an
original proceeding in the Supreme Court of the State
against the American Express Company and Wells Fargo
& Company to enjoin them from putting into effect the
special tariffs covering all their rates within the State to

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U.S.

and from the five cities named; and a restraining order
was issued. The defendants complied with the restraining
order; but filed an answer in which they set up the order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and alleged that
about August 15 they published certain express rate tables,
but that "all rates for the carriage of express matter intrastate throughout the State of South Dakota were left
the same as provided in the South Dakota Express Distance Tariff No. 2, Exhibit A hereto, excepting the rates
to and from the cities of Sioux Falls, Aberdeen, Watertown, Mitchell and Yankton, and other South Dakota
points; that to the business between said cities
and other South Dakota points there were applied the
rates prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission,
as hereinbefore set forth, for interstate traffic between
points within and points without the State of South
Dakota; that excepting for*the application of the Interstate Commerce Commission rates to traffic to and from
said cities . . . no changes were made in the express
tariffs throughout the State of South Dakota, as the same
had previously existed under the provisions of the South
"
Dakota Distance Tariff No. 2.
There was in the answer no explicit allegation that no
change in rates had been made except as required by the
Commission's order.'
1 The answer also alleged that shippers and organizations representing the merchants of the five South Dakota cities had brought suit
against these and other express companies in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of Iowa to enjoin the enforcement of the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission and the
putting'into effect of the special tariffs above referred to; that on filing
the bill an order of notice issued; that the United States and the Interstate Commerce Commission appeared specially to object to the jurisdiction of the court; and that on August 28, three judges sitting, an
order was entered as follows: "the plaintiffs with leave of court offer
their evidence in support of the application for a temporary writ of
injunction and the court finds that upon the showing made the plain-

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. CALDWELL.
244 U. S.

623

Opinion of the Court.

The plaintiffs demurred to the answer upon the ground
that it did not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense
to the suit. The demurrer was sustained and defendants
having elected to stand on their answer, a perpetual injunction was granted on December 5, which enjoined the
express companies from putting into effect the special
tariffs presented on August 25, "or any of the rates, fares
or charges specified in said tables between the cities- of
Aberdeen, Mitchell, Sioux Falls, Watertown or Yankton
in the State of South Dakota and other stations of said
express companies in said State . . . or
charges greater . . . than the maximum rates
of

.

.

.

Distance Tariff No. 2

.

.

.

unless or

until a schedule of express rates shall have first been submitted to the Board of Railroad Commissioners of the
State of South Dakota and have been regularly approved
and allowed by said board in conformity to the laws of the
State of South Dakota." 1
A petition for writ of error to this court was allowed
December 11, 1916. The record was filed here January 27,
1917, and included in it is the opinion of the Supreme
Court of South Dakota filed in the cause January 20, 1917.
The reasons there given for holding that the order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission is no justification for
disregarding the order of the Board of Railroad Commissioners of South Dakota embody in substance the argument made here on behalf of the State's officials.
tiffs would not be entitled to a temporary writ of injunction and therefore declines to pass on the plea to the jurisdiction.
" See also
Brown Drug Co. v. United States, 235 Fed. Rep. 603.
'On December 5, 1916, the defendants had also applied for dissolution of the restraining order, alleging, among other things, that the
United States had instituted suit against them in the District Court of
the United States for the Southern District of New York to recover
the penalties prescribed by Congress, to wit, $5,000 a day for failure
to comply with the order of the Interstate Commerce Commission;
and that they were liable to further suits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

1. The nature of the Interstate Commerce Commission's
order.
In its specific direction the order merely prohibits
charging higher rates to and from Sioux City than to and
from the five South Dakota cities. It could be complied
with (a) by reducing the interstate rates to the South
Dakota scale or (b) by raising the South Dakota rates
to the interstate scale or (c) by reducing one and raising
the other until equality is reached in an intermediate
scale. The report (which is made a part of the order)
contains, among other things, a finding that the interstate
rate which was prescribed by the Commission was' not
shown to be unreasonable. This finding gives implied
authority to the express companies both to maintain their
interstate rates and to raise, to their level, the intrastate
rates involved. The Shreveport Case (Houston, East &
West Texas Ry. Co. v. United States), 234 U. S.342. For,
if the interstate rates axe maintained, the discrimination can be removed only by raising the intrastate
rates.
But the finding that discrimination exists and that the
interstate rates are reasonable does not necessarily imply
a finding that the intrastate rates are unreasonable.
Both rates may lie within the zone of reasonableness and
yet involve unjust discrimination. Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 145 U. S.263,
277. Proceedings to remove unjust discrimination are
aimed directly only at the relation of rates. If in such a
proceeding an unreasonable rate is uncovered and that
rate made reasonable, it is done as a means to the end
of removing discrimination. The correction is an incident
merely.
2. The power of the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The Supreme Court of South Dakota declares:
"If the purported order of the Commission does, in any
respect, regulate intrastate commerce, it is to that extent

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. CALDWELL.
244 U. S.

625

Opinion of the Court.

void owing to the Commission's want of jurisdiction over
the subject-matter."
That court denies not only the intent of Congress to confer upon the Commission authority to remove an existing
discrimination against interstate commerce by directing
a change of an intrastate rate prescribed by state authority; but denies also the power of Congress under the Constitution to confer such power upon the Commission or to
exercise it directly. The existence of such power and
authority should not have been questioned since the decision of this court in the Shreveport Case.
It is also urged, that even if the Commission had power,
under the circumstances, to order a change of the intrastate rates, the order in question was invalid, because the
Commission instead of specifically directing the change
undertook to give to the carrier a discretion as to how it
should be done and as to the territory to which it should
apply. The order properly left to the carriers discretion
to determine how the discrimination should be removed;
that is, whether by lowering the interstate rates or by
raising the intrastate rates or by doing both. In its general form the order is identical with that under consideration in the Shreveport Case. Where a proceeding to remove
unjust discrimination presents solely the question whether
the carrier has improperly exercised its authority to
initiate rates, the Commission may legally order, in
general terms, the removal of the discrimination shown,
leaving upon the carrier the burden of determining also
the points to and from which rates must be changed, in
order to effect a removal of the discrimination. But where,
as here, there is a conflict between the federal and the
state authorities, the Commission's order cannot serve
as a justification for disregarding a regulation or order
issued under state authority, unless, and except so far
as, it is definite as to the territory or points to which it
applies. For the power of the Commission is -ominant

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

only to the extent that the exercise is found by it to be
necessary to remove the existing discrimination against
interstate traffic. Still, certum est quod certum reddi
potest. Whether the order here involved is definite, presents a question of construction which will be considered
later.
3. The requirements of the state law.
The South Dakota statute (1911, c. 207, ยง 10, as amended
1913, c. 304) provides that no advance in intrastate rates
may be made except after thirty days' notice to the Board
of Railroad Commissioners by filing of schedules, and to
the public by publication and posting in every office of
the carrier in the State. The special tariff here in question,
which was presented to the Board informally at conferences in July, was not formally offered for filing until
August 25. It was, by its terms, to take effect September 15; and notice to the public was not made as provided
in the statute. But these provisions cannot be held to
apply to changes in intrastate rates over which the Board
has no control. The proper conduct of business would
suggest the giving of some notice (as was done by the
express companies in the instant case); but a valid order
of the Commission is, when applicable, a legal justification
for disregarding a conflicting regulation of the state lawbecause the federal authority is dominant.
4. The scope of the order.
If the general words of the order are read alone, they
might perhaps be understood as applying to rates between the five named South Dakota cities and all other
"points" in South Dakota. But the order explicitly
makes the report which is filed therewith a part thereof;
and the order itself also qualifies the general words used,
by the clause: "which said relation of rates has been
found by the Commissioni to be unjustly discriminatory."
The report makes it thus perfectly clear that the order
applies only to the "points" in competitive territory or,

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. CALDWELL.
244 U. S.

627

Opinion of the Court.

as the Supreme Court expresses it, those "commercially
tributary" both to the five cities and to Sioux City. That
territory, as the report also shows, is the southeastern
part of South Dakota; and as to this alone, the discrimination was found to exist. The express companies were not
warranted by anything in the order in extending the
special tariffs of rates, to and from the five cities to include
"'points" in every part of the State. As to all rate advances other than those in the competitive territory,
their action was unauthorized.
It is urged on behalf of the state officials that the order
does not show with the necessary precision to what
"points" it applies; and that if not wholly void for indefiniteness, it at least cannot serve as a justification for
failure to observe the regulations and orders imposed by
authority of the State. In cases of this nature, where
the dominant federal authority is exerted to affect intrastate rates, it is desirable that the orders of the Interstate
Commerce Commission should be so definite as to the
rates and territory to be affected as to preclude misapprehension. If an order is believed to lack definiteness
an application should be made to the Commission for
further specifications. But the order although less explicit
than desirable is, when read in connection with the railroad map, not lacking in the requisite definiteness. As the
order is limited to the relation of rates to and from Sioux
City and to and from the five South Dakota cities "under
substantially similar circumstances and conditions and for
substantially equal distances," and.the report states that
the American Express Company operates "over the lines
of the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company and
the Chicago, St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha Railway
Company," and that the Wells Fargo & Company operates "over the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway Company," it furnishes the necessary data for adjusting the rates in controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

5. The jurisdictionof the state court.
It is urged that the Supreme Court of South Dakota
erroneously assumed jurisdiction, because this proceeding
is an attack upon an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission; that by the Act of Congress (36 Stat. 539,
540, 543) exclusive power "to enjoin, set aside, annul,
or suspend in whole or in part any order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission" was.vested in the Commerce

Court; and that by the Act of October 22, 1913, abolishing
that court (38 Stat. 219), the exclusive power was transferred to the several District Courts. If this were a proceeding professedly "to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend" an order of the Commission "in whole or in part,"
a state court would obviously have no jurisdiction. The
bill does not purport to attack, nor does it even refer to,
any such order. It alleges only that the express companies
propose "increases and advances' in charges for intrastate transportation, by introducing "existing interstate
rates." It is the answer which sets up the order of the
Commission as a justification; and plaintiffs deny that it
is such. Whether or not the state court has jurisdiction
cannot, of course, depend upon the professed purpose of
the proceeding nor upon the mere form of pleading. An
order may be as effectively annulled by misconstruction
as by avowedly setting it aside. But we have no occasion
to determine in the instant case, under what circumstances
and to what extent, the effect of orders of the Commission
may be questioned in state courts. The answer does not
allege that all the intrastate rates to and from the five
cities which have been advanced were advanced in com-

pliance with the order of the Commission. It alleges
merely that the rates applied were those prescribed "for
interstate traffic between points within and points without
the State of South Dakota"; I and it is clear that the
1 The

claim that the express companies attempted to make only those

changes which were required to comply with the order of the Commis-

AMERICAN EXPRESS CO. v. CALDWELL.
244 U. S.

629

Dissent.

special tariffs here in question include advances of rates
between the five cities and many "points" in the State
to which the Commission's order did not apply. It could
not, therefore, afford a justification for putting into effect
those intrastate rates without first making the publication required by the state law and securing the approval
of the State Board. These rates the Supreme Court of
South Dakota had jurisdiction to enjoin, and the decree
must be affirmed to that extent. It is also clear that the
decree of the Supreme Court, in so far as it enjoined the
express companies from advancing any intrastate rate
to and from the five cities until the same shall have been
approved by the South. Dakota Board of Railroad Com-:
missioners, was erroneous. So far as it extends to rates
in the competitive territory as to which discrimination was
found to exist, it must be modified and the injunction
dissolved. With this modification the decree of the state
court is affirmed and the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsisteut with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA dissents.
sion was first explicitly made in the petition for writ of error to this
court. There was, however, in the motion filed December 5, to dissolve
the restraining order, a general allegation that the express companies
"were ordered to put into effect the rates restrained" by the state
court.

