OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

NEW YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. TONSELLITO, AN INFANT,
ETC.
NEW 'YORK CENTRAL & HUDSON RIVER RAILROAD COMPANY v. TONSELLITO.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF THE STATE

OF NEW JERSEY.
Nos. 239, 240.

Submitted April 30, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

In an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act the questions
whether plaintiff was engaged in interstate commerce when injured,
whether the railroad was negligent, whether he assumed the risk, and
vhether he was a mere volunteer, will not evoke discussion by this
court where there was adequate evidence upon them for submission
to the jury, where there was no evident, material error in the charge,
where both state courts below have sustained the judgment, and no
special circumstances are present demanding comment.
The Federal Employers' Liability Act does not allow the father a right
of action for expenses and loss of service resulting from his minor
son's injuries in addition to the son's right of action.
The rights of action provided by the Federal Employers' Liability Act
are exclusive as to the cases which it covers and no other can be
added by the law of a State. New York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield,
ante, 147.
87 N. J. L. 651, affirmed in part and reversed in part.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Albert C. Wall and Mr. John A. Hartpence for
plaintiff in error.

Mr. Alexander.Simpson for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
court.

By stipulation, these causes were tried together before
the same jury and upon the same testimony. Michael

NEW YORK CENT. &c. R. R. CO. v. TONSELLITO. 361
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Tonsellito, an infant seventeen years old, suing by his
father, James Tonsellito, as next friend and relying upon
the Federal Employers' Liability Act, obtained a judgment for personal injuries suffered while employed by
plaintiff in error-Number 239. These injuries, he alleged,
resulted from negligence in constructing and maintaining
its road-bed and in starting a locomotive without giving
him a reasonable opportunity to climb thereon. James
Tonsellito recovered for himself on account of expenses
incurred for medical attention to his son and loss of the
latter's services-Number 240. Both judgments were
affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals. 87 N. J. L.
651.
Reversal is asked in the cause instituted by Michael
Tonsellito because (1) he was not engaged in interstate
commerce when injured; (2) no negligence by the railroad
was shown; (3) he assumed the risk; and (4) he was a
mere volunteer when the accident occurred. We think
there was adequate evidence to justify submission of all
these matters to the jury; and we are unable to say the
charge contains material error. Both state courts have
sustained the judgment; there are no special circumstances
demanding comment; and it seems enough to announce
our conclusion. Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Knapp, 240
U. S. 464, 466; Erie Railroad Co. v. Welsh, 242 U. S. 303.
The Court of Errors and Appeals ruled, and it is now
maintained, that the right of action asserted by the father
existed at common law and was not taken away by the
Federal Employers' Liability Act. But the contrary
view, we think; is clearly settled by our recent opinions in
New York Central R. R. Co. v. Winfield ante, 147, and
Erie Railroad Co. v. Winfield, ante, 170. There we held
the act "is comprehensive and, also; exclusive" in respect
of a railroad's liability for injuries suffered' by its employees while engaging in interstate commerce. "It
establishes a rule or regulation which is intended to op-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Syllabus.

244 U. S.

erate uniformly in all the States, as respects interstate
commerce, and in that field it is both paramount and
exclusive." Congress having declared when, how far,
and to whom carriers shall be liable on account of accidents
in the specified class, such liability can neither be extended
nor abridged by common or statutory laws of the State.
The judgment in Number 239 is
Affirmed.
In Number 240 the judgment below is reversed and the
cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BIRANDEIS concurs in the result announced

in No. 240.

MASON ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA, SECOND DIVISION.
No. 604.

Submitted April 11, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

The Fifth Amendment does not relieve a witness from answering
merely on his own declaration or judgment that an answer might
incriminate him; whether he must answer is determinable by the
trial court in the exercise of its sound discretion; and unless there.is
reasonable ground, as distinct from a remote or speculative possibility, to apprehend that a direct answer may prove dangerous to the
witness, his answer should be compelled.
In the absence of manifest error, the ruling of a trial judge upon a
witness' objection that an answer may incriminate him, will not be
reversed by this court.
Affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

