258

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with our opinion in the former case.
Reversed.
Dissenting: MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE.

SUTTON v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
MIHM v. STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND

APPEALS OF THE

STATE oF NEW JERSEY.
Nos. 189, 190.

Argued April 20, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

A state taw requiring a street car company to carry city detectives free
when in the discharge of duty, Held not an arbitrary or unreasonable
exercise of police power.
A state law requiring a street car company to carry city detectives free
while in the discharge of duty is a valid exercise of a reserved power
to amend the company's charter.
87 N. J. L. 192; id., 332, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Bergen for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. John Bentley for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the

court.
These cases were argued together. In each the New
Jersey statute (P. L. 1912, p. 235,1) requiring street rail1 1. On and after the passage of this act each street railway company or corporation referred to in the act to which this act is a supple-

SUTTON v. NEW JERSEY.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

way companies to grant free transportation to police
officers while engaged in the performance of their public
duties, is assailed as invalid under the Fourteenth Amendment. In each a prosecution for assault and battery was
brought against an inspector employed by the Public
Service Railway Company of Jersey City, for ejecting
a city detective who refused to pay his fare. Both detectives were in plain clothes, but showed their badges and
claimed the right to ride free of charge. Both detectives
were on duty at the time-one was on his way to report
at headquarters; the other to interview the victim of a
robbery. The defence in each case was the unconstitutionality of the statute and that the detective, having
wrongfully refused to pay his fare, was ejected with no
more than necessary force. The police justice, before
whom the prosecutions were instituted, found the defendants guilty and fined them. These judgments were
affirmed in successive appeals to the Supreme Court and
to the Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey. 83
N. J. L. 46. 87 N. J. L. 192. The case comes here on
writ of error.
The Supreme Court of New Jersey said:
"Policemen are frequently required to be on street cars
in the execution of their duties to preserve the peace, to
enforce ordinanices and to prevent or detect crime. It
would be difficult to say that the mere presence of a
police officer might not be of value for securing these
objects . . . at any rate, the legislature might reasonment shall grant free transportation of uniformed public officers while
engaged in the performance of their puhlic duties, or police officers of
whatever grade or rank acting as detectives, county detectives, or
detectives attached to or connected with the office of the prosecutor of
the pleas in any county in this State while engaged in the performance
of their public duties, whose duties require police duty to be performed
without uniform.

OCTOBER TERM,- 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

ably think so, and legalize his presence on the car without
payment of fare."
Freedom to come and go upon the street cars without
the obstacle or discouragement incident to payment of
fares may well have been deemed by the legislature essential to efficient and pervasive performance of the police
duty. Increased protection may thereby enure to both
the company and the general public without imposing
upon the former an appreciable burden. If any evidence
of the reasonableness of the provision were needed, it
could be found in the fact that such officers had been
voluntarily carried free by the company and its predecessors for at least eighteen years prior to July 4, 1910,
when the practice was prohibited by the Public Utilities
Act (P. L. 1910, p. 58). In the following year such free
transportation was expressly permitted (P. L. 1911, p. 29),
and it was made mandatory by the act here in question.
We caainot say that the requirement that city detectives
not in uniform be carried free on street cars when in the
discharge of their duties is an arbitrary or unreasonable
exercise of the police power.
Furthermore the charter of the Railway Company was
subject to alteration in the discretion of the legislature
(Constitution of New Jersey, Art. IV., ยง 7, Par. 11. P. L.
1846, p. 17.) The obligation to carry free city detectives
engaged in the discharge of their duties is a burden far
lighter than others imposed upon street-using corporations
which have been sustained by this court as a valid exercise
of the reserved power.'
The statute is broad in scope, extending also to all
"uniformed public officers"; but the court below expressly
confined its decision to the case presented, sustaining the
1

Stanislaus County v. San Joaquin C. & I. Co., 192 U. S. 201; San

Antonio Traction Co. v. Altgelt, 200 U. S. 304; Fair Haven & Weotville
R.R. Co. v. New Haven, 203 U. S. 379.

UNITED COPPER CO. v. AMAL. COPPER CO.
244 U. S.

261

Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

law "in so far as it applies to police officers"; and our
decision is likewise so limited.
The judgments are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE' MCKENNA and MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

dissent.

UNITED COPPER SECURITIES COMPANY ET AL.
v. AMALGAMATED COPPER COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 208. Argued April 24, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
The established principles limiting the right of a stockholder to sue on
behalf of the corporation when it refuses to do so, restated and held
applicable to an action for damages based on alleged injury to the
corporation through violations of the Sherman Act.
The rule which confines the individual stockholder to the equitable
forum when seeking to enforce a right of the corporation applies
when the cause of action arises under the Sherman Act, as in other
cases. Fleitmann v. Welsbach Co., 240 U. S. 27, distinguished.
Whether or not in an action by stockholders to enforce an alleged right
of their corporation this court has power to substitute as plaintiffs
persons appointed receivers of the corporation while the writ of error
is pending, Held that in the circumstances- stated in the opinion such
a motion was without merit in this case.
223 Fed. Rep. 421, affirmed.

THE case ig stated in the opinion.
Mr. Ferdinand E. M. Bullowa, with whom Mr. Ralph
James M. Bullowa, Mr. Emilie M. Bullowa and Mr. Robert
H. McCarter were on the briefs, for plaintiffs in error.

