OCTOBER TERM, 1916..
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

pliance with the opinion on file, is not withheld because
of the presence therein of such attempted reservation;
but such approval is not to be taken to imply that such
right of review can thereafter exist, or that such attempted
reservation has any effect to make the remittitur other
than absolute and unconditional."
In assertion of the right attempted to be reserved Woodworth prosecutes this writ of error.
A motion is made to dismiss the writ of error, and we
think it should be granted. Woodworth is in the somewhat anomalous position of having secured a judgment
against Chesbrough and yet seeking to retract the condition upon which it was obtained. This he cannot do.
Koenigsberger v. Richmond Silver Mining Co., 158 U. S.
41, 52. He encounters, besides, another obstacle: If the
remittitur be disregarded the judgment entered upon it
must be disregarded and the original judgment of the
Circuit Court of Appeals restored, which, not being final,
cannot be reviewed.
Dismissed.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. ILLINOIS CENTRAL
RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 310.

Argued April 13, 16, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

An order of the interstate Commerce Commission assigning a cause for
hearing upon an issue of reparation is not an order in the sense of § 1
of the Commerce Court Act, 36 Stat. 539; Judicial Code, § 207; and
the District Court has no jurisdiction to enjoin the Commission
from proceeding with such hearing. Procter& Gamble Co.v. United
States, 225 U. S.282.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. CO. 83
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Underwood, with whom
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Joseph W. Folk for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
*Mr. Robert V. Fletcher, with whom Mr. Blewett Lee was
on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appeal from a decree cancelling an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission fixing a hearing of certain
complaints made to it by certain coal companies for damages for alleged failure to furnish cars upon demand, and
enjoining proceedings upon the complaints.
The decree was granted, three judges sitting, upon the
petition of appellee, herein referred to as the railroad
company.
The railroad company is an intrastate and interstate
carrier of freight and passengers and among other commodities transports coal on its line, which, during the
years 1911, 1912 and 1913, was shipped in interstate commerce by producers thereof on through rates established
by the railroad company.
Certain coal companies, shippers over the lines of the
railroad company, filed petitions before the Interstate
Commerce Commission asking that damages be assessed
against the railroad company for an alleged failure to
supply a sufficient number of coal cars for their respective
shipping needs.
The petitions were received by the Commission and

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

were by it treated as substantially presenting but a single
complaint, were so numbered as to indicate the fact,
and were thereafter in all proceedings treated and disposed
of together by one report and order.
The railroad company filed an answer to each complaint
in which it denied the jurisdiction of the Commission to
award damages for failure to furnish coal cars and averred
that in actions of such character exclusive jurisdiction
is in the courts. In due course a hearing was had by the
Commission and the railroad company objected to any
further proceeding before it on the ground of want of
jurisdiction, at least as to so much of the complaints of
the coal companies as dealt only with damages, and moved
that so much of the complaints as-dealt with the demand
for damages be dismissed.
At the argument of the motion counsel for the coal
companies expressly declared that so much of the complaints as charged any undue and unlawful discrimination
by the railroad company in the distribution of its cars was
dismissed and it was stipulated that the complaints
should be considered as so amended as to omit such
charges. Thereafter the matter proceeded upon the sole
issue of damages for alleged failure to furnish cars upon
demand.
On January 30, 1915, four members of the Commission
filed a report holding that the Commission had jurisdiction to consider the complaints and award whatever
damages might be proved. Three members dissented.
The reports are attached to the petition.
A petition for rehearing was made and denied and on
August 18, 1915, the Commission entered its order assigning the cause for further hearing upon the issue of reparation. lhefollowing is the order entered:
"No. 6128-Vulcan Coal and Mining Company vs.
Illinois Central Railroad Company. No. 6128 Sub-No.
1-St. Louis-Coulterville Coal Company vs. Illinois Cen-

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. CO. 85
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tral Railroad Company. No. 6128 Sub-No. 2-Groom
Coal Company vs. Illinois Central Railroad Company.
"The above-entitled cases are assigned for hearing
October 1, 1915, ten o'clock a. m., at Hotel Jefferson, St.
Louis, Mo., before Examiner Wilson.
"By the Commission."
In the appellee's petition in the District Court it alleged
that the hearing would be proceeded with unless restrained, that the railroad company would be compelled
to attend such hearing, would be put to great expense and
that in all probability an order of reparation would be
made; that the railroad company would be forced to
defend at great trouble and expense three separate and several suits at law based on such awards, all of which would
depend upon the same facts and principles of law, thereby
subjecting the railroad company to a multiplicity of suits;
and that if reparation should be awarded it would be
placed at great disadvantage in defending suits based on
the awards, since the Commission's finding of the ultimate
facts is by statute made prima facie correct and no opportunity. is given for a judicial review of the strength
and competency of the evidence upon which such a finding rests.
A subpoena against the United States was prayed and
an order annulling the order of the Commission and,
pending the hearing, restraint of the Commission and its
members from action.
The United States, appearing by its counsel, moved to
dismiss the petition on the grounds that-(1) The action
of the Commission did not constitute an order within the
meaning of'§ 1 of the act entitled "An Act to Create a
Commerce Court" and that the court, therefore, was
without jurisdiction to enjoin or annul or suspend the
same in whole or in part. (2) The petition is an attempt
in advance of any action or order of the Commission to
enjoin it from acting and proceeding on a complaint

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

brought and pending before it. (3) The Act to Regulate
Commerce makes an order for the payment of money
only prima facie evidence, cuts off no other defense, takes
no question from court or jury nor in any wise denies due
process of law; that "such an order is merely a rule of
evidence, and notice of a hearing at which such an order
may be entered is not an order within the meaning of
section 1 of the act entitled 'An act to create a Commerce
Court,' etc., approved June 18, 1910, and the court has
no jurisdiction to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend the
same in whole or in part."
The motion to dismiss was denied and the United States,
without waiving it, moved to dismiss the petition on the
ground that it was without, equity and did not state a
cause of action.
. It was decreed that the Commission had no jurisdiction
to hear and determine the complaints of the coal companies, that its order be cancelled, and it be permanently
enjoined from further proceeding with the hearing of the
complaints.
The Interstate Commerce Commission appeared in the
suit and also moved to dismiss the petition on the grounds
-(1)
That the order of the Commission was merely a
notice of a. hearing and not a reviewable order. (2) That
the principal office of the Commission is in Washington
and suit to enjoin any of its proceedings must be brought
in the District of Columbia, and not in the Eastern District of Illinois. (4) That irreparable injury was not
shown.
After certain admissions and denials of the petition the
Commission asserted its jurisdiction.
In support of the decree the contention of the railroad
company is that the Interstate Commerce Commission
has no jurisdiction to award damages for failure to furnish
cars and that this was the only issue submitted to the
Commission and the only issue decided by it. The Com,

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. CO. 87
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mission having no jurisdiction, the further contention is
that the railroad company can restrain its order because
it will subject the company to the trouble and expense of
the hearing, the probability of an order of reparation
against it, and a multiplicity of suits, ii which suits it will
be confronted by the order of reparation as evidence without opportunity for judicial review of the strength and
competency of the evidence.
The contentions and the recited consequences of the
order of the Commission are met by opposing ones. The
United States asserts that the action of the Commission
fixing a day for the hearing of the complaints of the coal
companies is not an order within the meaning of § 1 of
the Act of June 18, 1910, creating the Commerce Court
(36 Stat. 539), and the subsequent Act of October 22, 1913,
abolishing that court and transferring the jurisdiction
conferred upon it to the several district courts of the
United States. (38 Stat. 208, 219.) It is only by virtue
of those acts, it is said, that the United States can be sued
and it is provided by them that the United States can only
be sued in "cases brought to enjoin, set aside, annul,
or suspend in whole or in part any order of the Interstate
Commerce Commission." The Commission makes the
same contention and some others and both it and the
United States insist that the action of the Commission
was not an order within the meaning of the cited provision.
Procter & Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282, 293,
is adduced as authority for the insistence.
The Procter & Gamble Company was the owner of
500 railroad tank cars used for the transportation of its
products over the lines of certain railroads, and the company filed a complaint before the Interstate Commerce
Commission complaining of demurrage rules of the railroad companies, which had been approved by the Commission, as unjust and oppressive and alleging that to
enforce them would create preferences and discrimina-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

tions forbidden by the Interstate Commerce Act. The
complaint was not sustained and an award of relief was
denied.
Thereupon the Procter & Gamble Company filed a petition in the Commerce Court in which the company repeated its accusations against the demurrage rules and
charged also that the order of the Commission dismissing
its complaint was null and void and beyond the power of
the Commission in that it sustained the validity of the
rules.
The Commerce Court held that it had jurisdiction of the
cause and that, for the purpose of jurisdiction, the refusal
of the Commission to afford the relief prayed for was the
exact equivalent of an order granting affirmative relief,
and, as a corollary of this power, it was further decided
that there was jurisdiction to award pecuniary relief for
demurrage if any was illegally exacted. On the merits the
court decided against the Procter & Gamble Company.
This court reversed the ruling and held that the Commerce Court had no jurisdiction as the order of the Commission neither compelled "the doing or abstaining from
doing of acts embraced by a previous affirmative command of the Commission." The reasoning of the court
explred the whole act and omitted no circumstance which
could bear on its construction and its efficacy for the purpose for which it was enacted. Considering the first and
second subdivisions of § 1, (§207 of the Judicial Code,)
which deals with the jurisdiction of the Commerce Court,
it was said that the first "provides for the enforcement of
orders, that is, the compelling of the doing or abstaining
from doing of acts embraced by a previous affirmative
command of the Commission; " and that the second," dealing with the same subject from a reverse point of view,
provides for the contingency of a complaint made to the
court by one seeking to prevent the enforcement of orders
of the Commission such as are contemplated by the first

UNITED STATES v. ILLINOIS CENT. R. R. CO. 89
244 13. S.

Opinion of the Court.

paragraph. In other words, by the co6peration of the two
paragraphs, authority is given on the one hand, to enforce
compliance with the orders of the Commission if lawful,
and, on the other hand, power is conferred to stay the enforcement of an illegal order." Other provisions of the
act were said to be as convincing.
It will thus be observed, as said by counsel for the Commission, "the power of a court 'to stay the enforcement
of an illegal order' is, in a sense, reciprocal to its power
to enforce compliance with an order of the Commission,
'if lawful.' . . . And just as the district court would
have been powerless, in the instant case, to compel the
appellee to attend the hearing with respect to which the
notice had been given, so also was it without lawful authority to annul that notice or to enjoin the Commission
from proceeding in the premises." And again, as other
counsel say, the alleged order was nothing more than
notice of a hearing which the railroad company might
attend or not, as it saw fit.
The notice, therefore, had no characteristic of an order,
affirmative or negative. It was a mere incident in the
proceeding, the accident of the occasion-in effect, and,
it may be contended, in form, but a continuance of the
hearing. The fact that the continuance was to another
day and place did not change its substance or give it the
character described in Procter & Gamble Co. v. United
States, one which constrained the railroad company to
obedience unless it was annulled or suspended by judicial
decree.
It is not necessary to pass upon the other contentions of
appellants.
Decree reversed and cause remanded with directions to
grant the motions to dismiss the petition.

