OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

versed with a direction to dismiss the information for
want of jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE DAY authorizes me to say that he concurs
in this dissent.

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 361. Argued April 23, 24, .1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.
The testimony of an accomplice who turns State's evidence in a murder
case is not to be discarded because of his base character, or his oscillating retraction and reiteration of the charge, but must be ac-,
corded such weight as is due it when judged by confirming or opposing
circumstances, by his character and the influences which invested
him.
In this case the court, considering evidence on which was based a conviction of murder, concurred in by the court of first instance and the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands, holds that the doubts
aroused by the character and vacillation of the government's chief
witness (who testified that he was hired by the defendant and did
the killing under his direction), are not such as to justify a reversal
in view of the corroborating evidence, including evidence of a motive
on the part of the defendant, and the absence of any doubt that
murder was actually done.
A view of the scene of the murder by the trial judge does not deprive
the accused of his constitutional right, carried to him by the Philippine Code, to "meet the witnesses face to face," where the view
is conducted in the presence and with the consent of his counsel,
and no testimony is taken, and no improper remarks are addressed
to the judge.
The right of the accused to be present during the inspection may be
waived by his counsel; but, even when the right is not waived, his
absence will not warrant a reversal if no prejudice resulted.
30 Phil. Rep. 293, affirmed.

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Timothy T. Ansberry, with whom Mr. Challen B.
Ellis was on the briefs, for plaintiff in error:
The argument of Mr. Ansberry for the defendant was
devoted to the facts and to the proposition that the absence of the accused during the view taken by the judge
of first instance was fatal error. The accused, he said, was
in jail at the time and had not consented. Section 5 of
the Philippine Civil Government Act secures in all criminal prosecutions the right of the accused to be heard by
himself and his counsel. Section 3270 of the Philippine
Laws, Comp. Stats. 1907, declares: "In all criminal
prosecutions the defendant shall be entitled to appear
and defend in person and by counsel at every stage of the
proceeding." It is unnecessary to argue at length the
interpretation of these provisions, or the question of the
rights of an accused in a felony case and the circumstances
under which they may and may not be waived, for these
questions are now settled by the recent decision in Diaz v.
United States, 223 U. S. 442.
There this court laid down the rule of interpretation of
Philippine Laws to be that the prevailing course of decision in the United States should be accepted as determining the nature and measure of the rights provided,
and held that, by the prevailing course of decision in the
United States, an acoused who is on trial charged with a
capital offense is incapable of waiving the right io be
present.
There is only one subject remaining, and that is whether
the rule is different when the proceeding was a view of the
premises, and not the taking of testimony in the court
room, instructions to the jury, etc. There is some authority for the proposition that a view of the premises is not
"a part of the trial" on the ground that it does not involve the obtaining of evidence. Decisions to this effect

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

244 U. S.

are mainly those dealing with the question as to whether
a review on appeal is prevented by lack of a complete
record when it appears that the jury viewed the premises;
and the solution of the difficulty in some of the cases is
that review may be had because a view of the premises is
not a part of the trial. Some authorities have carried
this suggestion into criminal cases where the question
arose as to the necessity for the presence of the accused at
a view of the premises. But without attempting to analyze
these authorities, or the cases the other way, it is sufficient
to say that both sound reason and the weight of authority
support the proposition that a view of the premises in a
criminal case is a part of the trial. 3 Wharton Criminal
Law, 7th ed., § 3160; 22 Encyc. P1. & Pr. 1059; Tully v.
Railroad Co., 134 Massachusetts, 499; Wall v. United
States Mining Co., 232 Fed. Rep. 613; People v. Milner,
122 California, 171; Benton v. State, 30 Arkansas, 328.
The whole theory upon which the accused is given a right
to be present at the trial applies with equal force to his
presence at a view of the premises. The right to be present, "scarcely less important to the accused than the
right of trial itself" (Diaz v. United States, supra), was
clearly not intended to be limited to any particular occasion, or any particular kind of proceeding in the trial,
but extends to "any steps taken" (Hopt v. Utah, 110
U. S. 574) "from the empanelling of the jury to the reception of the verdict," and during this time "nothing
shall be done in the absence ,of the prisoner" (Lewis v.
United States, 146 U. S. 371, 372).
And what is true of a criminal trial before a jury is
equally true of a criminal trial had, as in the Philippines,
before a judge only. Diaz v. United States, supra.
The right of the accused to be present is given him,
undoubtedly, that he may have the opportunity to observe, and be observed, at every step taken so that he
may make the best use of his own knowledge of the facts,

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

and use that knowledge either in his testimony or in his
conferences with counsel. At any moment of the trial
something may arise which needs supplementing by facts
of which the accused knows, or something may appear,
either by observation of the jury or in oral evidence,
which can be easily explained by the knowledge which
the accused has. To say that the accused must be present when testimony, already transcribed, is read, or when
the court instructs the jury, but that he need not be present when the jury is making an examination of objects
and places about which the testimony centers and confirming or testing the testimony by actual view, ignores
the real reason for the right.
But whatever may be the contention as to the proper
function of a view of the premises, there can be no doubt
that in the case at bar there was the "taking of evidence"
at the view of the premises. People v. Hull, 86 Michigan,
446; People v. Green, 53 California, 60; State v. Bertin,
24 La. Ann. 46.
If any doubt could remain as to the right of the accused
to be present at the view, because of any technical definition of the word "trial," it is disposed of by the broad
language of the Philippine Code, which refers specifically
to "every stage of the proceedings." See Hopt v. Utah,
supra.
The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General
Warren for the United States, submitted:
The plaintiff in error bases his right to be personally
present at the view taken by the single judge trying the case
without a jury upon § 5 of the Philippine Organic Act and
§ 3270 of the Philippine Compiled Statutes, which embody
the provisions of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States conferring three distinct and separable rights: (a) The right of confrontation
with the witnesses against him; (b) the right to be heard

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the United States.

244 U. S.

by himself and counsel; (c) the right to be present at
every stage of the trial..
The alleged right of a defendant to be present at a view
cannot be derived from the right of confrontation with
witnesses given by the Sixth Amendment. Such right
applies only to testimonial evidence. Mattox v. United
States, 156 U. S. 237, 242; Dowdell v. United States, 221
U. S. 325, 330; Kirby v. United States, 174 U. S. 47, 54, 55.
See also Mattox v. United States, 146 U. S. 140; Holt v.
United States, 218 U. S. 245, 252, 253; Reynolds v. United
States, 98 U. S. 145.
The plaintiff in error claims that the right to be present
at every stage of the trial is derived from the constitutional
right to have the assistance of counsel for his defense.
The right to have the assistance of counsel originated at
a later period than the right to be present at every stage
of the trial. As to the abuses which led to the adoption of
this clause of the Sixth Amendment, see 2 Story on Constitution, §§ 1793, 1794. And see also 4 Black. Comm.
355; Foster's Crown Cases, 231, 232; 1 Bishop's New Criminal Procedure, §§ 14-22, 120.
The right of a defendant in a criminal case to be present
at all stages of the trial, on the other hand, is a right which
had long been secured to him at common law before the
right to have counsel was granted to him and, therefore,
is clearly not derived from the Sixth Amendment to the
Constitution. Its derivation from the early English
common law is well stated in Ball v. United States, 140
U. S. 118, 131. For further authorities from the common
law, see Statute of 28 Edward III, c. 3, 1354; 4 Black.
Comm. 318; and the following cases: Rex v. Bacon (1664),
1 Keble, 809; 1 Levinz, 146; Rex v. Vipont (1761), 2 Burr,
1163; Rex v. Aiken (1765), 3 Burr, 1785; Rex v. Crowther
(1786), 1 T. R. 125, 127; Rex v. Baker (1745), 2 Strange,
1239; Rex v. Nicolls (1745), 2 Strange, 1227; Rex v. Legingham (1670), 2 Keble, 687; T. Taym. 193; Rex v. Harris

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

and Duke (1689), 1 Ld. Raym. 267, 482; Skinner, 683;
Comberbach, 447; Holt, 399; 1 Salkeld, 400; 12 Mod. 156;
Lofft, 400; Regina v. Templeman (1700), 1 Salk. 56; Rex
v. Hayes (1730), 2 Strange, 843; Rex v. Gibson (1734),
2 Strange, 968; Sessions Cas. 123; 2 Barnardiston, 412;
Cunningham, 29; Commonwealth v. Cody (1896), 165
Massachusetts, 133; Frey v. Calhoun (1895), 107 Michigan, 130.
The right to be present at every stage of the trial must
be derived from the "due process" clause contained in
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. The dicta
in Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S. 442, 452, which assumed that this right is derived from the Sixth Amendment, cannot be supported by authority.
Assuming, therefore, that the right to be present at all
stages of the trial is a necessary part of the "due process"
guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment, two questions arise
in this case: (1) Is a view actually, in law, a "part of the
trial" at which the common law required the defendant
to be present? (2) Was the right to be present at a view
such an "essential" right as public policy forbids to be
waived, under the doctrine of Hopt v. Utah, 110 U. 5&574,
as explained in Lewis v. United States, 146 U. S. 370, 372,
and Trono v. United States, 199 U. S. 521, 533?
The weight of authority and of. reason is to the effect
that a view is not such a "part of the trial" as requires
the defendant's presence. People v. Thorn, 156 N. Y. 286;
Price v. United States, 14 App. D. C. 391, 405; 3 Wigmore
on Evidence, § 1803; Supp., vol. 5, § 1803. See State v.
Ah Lee, 8 Oregon, 214.
Tl~at the right to be present at a view is not such an
"essential" right as public policy forbids to be waived
is to be seen from the fact that,. at the early common law,
it was optional with the defendant whether he would
give his consent to be present at a -view or, not; and' no
view could be taken without the defendant's consent in a

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for the United States.

244 U. S.

criminal case, and such consent could be given by the defendant with or without conditions. It is clear that, at
common law, if he consented to a view in his absence, a
view could be had in his absence. Sir Edward Duncomb's
Case (1635), Croke's Charles, 366; King v. Staughton
(1671), 2 Keble, 665; 1 Sid. 464; 2 Saunders, 160; King v.
Kingsmill (1714), 1 Sess. Cas. 87; Anonymous (1728), 1
Barnardiston, 144; King v. Hatchley Tradgeley (1732),
1 Sess. Cas. 180 (repeated as Anonymous, 2 Barnardiston,
214); King v. Redman (1756), Ld. Kenyon, 384; 5 Bacon's
Abridgment, 375; Thompson's Trials, § 879; Commonwealth v. Chance (i899), 174 Massachusetts, 245; Commonwealth v. Knapp (1830), 26 Massachusetts, 496; Commonwealth v. Webster (1850), 59 Massachusetts, 295.
It would be contrary to public policy to hold that defendant's presence at a view is legally necessary and nonwaivable. In the first place, at no properly regulated inspection can a jury (or as in this case, a single justice) do
more than observe the lay of the land and the disposition
of the objects of interest connected with the crime. No
evidence can be taken and no criticism or opinion offered
by either side. There is, therefore, in spite of remarks
in the cases, no valid reason necessitating the presence
of the defendant. That is obviously the reason why defendants have so often, waived the privilege of attendance.
In the second place, in many parts of the United States,
especially in Alaska and the Philippines, views may be
taken of places hundreds or even thousands of miles away
from the place of trial. In our Southern and Western
States, also, views may be taken in distant places and
sparsely settled regions. Facilities for travel may be
limited; means of conveyance insecure. A requirement
of the presence of the defendant, non-waivable by him,
presents a real danger or added facility for the escape,
or rescue, of the prisoner.
A conclusion, therefore, which would extend to a crim-

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

inal defendant a comparatively valueless privilege at the
expense of the safe and effective execution of justice should
be avoided if possible.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
ccurt.
Valdez was proceeded against by complaint under the
procedure of the Philippine Islands for the crime of murder.
It was circumstantially described as having been committed by Valdez and one Francisco Amante and one
Juan Gatmaitan, the latter having been induced by Valdez
"by reason of a promise of reward" (900 pesos) to shoot
one Eusebio Yuson with a shotgun furnished by Amante,
inflicting nine mortal wounds, instantly killing Yuson.
There was a demurrer filed to the complaint which need
not be noticed. Upon the trial of Valdez and Amante,
after pleas of not guilty, the court in an opinion circumstantially reviewed the evidence and found Amante not
guilty "for insufficiency of evidence." Valdez was found
guilty "beyond reasonable doubt." He was sentenced
to the penalty of death and to indemnification of the
family of the deceased.
At a separate trial Gatmaitan was also found guilty
and sentenced to imprisonment for life.
There was a motion for rehearing which was denied.
Valdez and Gatmaitan took separate appeals to the
Supreme Court of the Islands, but, according to the statement of the court, at the request of counsel, the appeals
were "heard and considered together, in order to give
counsel for the defense an opportunity to develop any
inconsistencies or contradictions which might appear
as a result of a critical analysis and comparison of the
evidence of record in both cases."
The judgment against Valdez was affirmed; that against
Gatmaitan was modified by the substitution of death for

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

life imprisonment. Two of the judges dissented, one
thinking that the "accused," not designating him (presumably Valdez), was entitled "to an acquittal under the
facts presented"; the other being of opinion that the prosecution had "not proved the guilt of the appellants of the
crime of which they were convicted."
The case is here upon a writ of error sued out by Valdez
and the questions presented are, to quote counsel: (1)
Whether the absence of the accused during a part of, the
proceedings in the trial constitutes an error requiring
reversal, and (2) whether there was any evidence adequate
to warrant the conviction.
The second question may be disposed of first. A negative answer is urged upon a consideration of the credibility of the witnesses, the relative probative strength
of their testimonies, their mental and moral defects, the
various statements of Gatmaitan, being a witness for the
prosecution, first testifying to the guilt of Valdez and by
subsequent statement retracting the accusation, and
later retracting- the retraction, and an asserted absence
of motive for the crime.
The elements of these contentions were passed upon by
the lower courts and the guilt of Valdez and Gatmaitan
determined. It ordinarily would be enough to say that
there was justification for the determination; but lest it
may be supposed that the guilt of Valdez depended alone
upon the testimony of Gatmaitan, he having been an
active accomplice in the homicide, some comment becomes necessary and at least a characterization of the
evidence.
Gatmaitan's testimony was, of course, an important
factor, but it had, substantial corroboration. He was
shown, it is true, to be a low type of man. One who becomes for hire as he did the criminal executor of another's
malice is usually such. No other would accept the shameful service. But it is not reserved for this cas6 to make a

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 'T.S.

Opinion of the Court.

novel contribution to the criminal experience of the country or to demonstrate that there are such hirers and hirelings, and when the hireling turns state's evidence, as he
sometimes does, or his weakness, awed by the penalties
of his crime, breaks down and confesses, as it sometimes
does, or he changes or qualifies or retracts, as he sometimes does, as hope or interest or fear sways him, his testimony or confession is not to be summarily discarded but
to be judged of by confirming or opposing circumstances
as well as by his character and the influences that may
invest him. And it was such judgment the two lower
courts exercised; it is such judgment in our turn that we
are required to exercise. This record, indeed, shows that
the character and characteristics of Gatmaitan, his mental
and social inferiority to Valdez, made him facile to Valdez'
solicitation and a purchasable agent for Valdez' purpose.
And Valdez was shown, independently of Gatmaitan's
testimony, to have had a purpose--a fixed enmity to
Yuson, engendered in a controversy over certain water
rights. In gratification of it he carefully planned the
crime, set its time and place, procured its weapon, gave
the weapon 'to Gatmaitan, and hired a scout to observe
the movements of Yuson and report his approach. The
service was exactly performed, and upon his approach
occurred the tragedy.
Yuson was shot in the back and instantly killed as he
was entering his home, and the crowning horror of it was
that it was done in the hearing and almost in the presence
of his wife, even as she was speaking to him and moving
to meet him.
Such is the outline of the crime. And crime it was.
There is no dispute about that or the manner of execution.
Valdez as a witness in his own behalf denied participation
in it or precedent knowledge and attempted to prove an
alibi. His denial Was not believed, his alibi decided not
to have been established. It cannot be held, therefore,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

that his conviction was not sustained by the evidence and
the sentence imposed upon him not justified, even though
its doom be death.
Upon the other question the record shows this: Gatmaitan was a witness for the prosecution. He related that
he was employed by Valdez to kill Yuson for 900 pesos,
given him, Gatmaitan, for that purpose, and that he shot
Yuson as Yuson was approaching his (Yuson's) houseValdez assisting him, Gatmaitan. Indeed, Gatmaitan
testified that Valdez ordered him to shoot but that the
gun would not go off, and Valdez showed him how to
shoot-"and right at that moment the gun went off."
Gatmaitan further testified that he and Valdez located
themselves "in a fence near the staircase" of Yuson's
house, and from that location fired the shot.
There was other testimony, as we have indicated, and
distances of objects from one another were testified to.
At the close of the testimony the prosecuting attorney
asked the court to visit "the place of the occurrence in
order to make there an inspection so that the court may
judge of the distances." One of the counsel for the defense assented, saying, "Yes; we do not object, so that the
court may see." Another counsel for the defense called
for the "motive" of the prosecution in asking "for the
ocular inspection." It was replied that its object was to
enable the court to obtain a correct idea "of all the distances in connection with the assassination of the deceased, as well also of the places where the witnesses for
the prosecution found themselves and where they talked
together." And further, "We want that done in order that
everything may be clear." To which counsel for the
defense replied that he had on occasions been present at
ocular inspections and that testimony was taken which
produced confusion, and, further: "What I wish, with
the consent of the prosecuting attorney, is that an inspection be made there, but that no testimony be taken

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

because it produces great confusion when one tries to
examine witnesses at the place of the occurrence."
The prosecuting attorney, however, thought it advisable
not to dispense with such testimony or take from the
court its discretion, "so that when the court arrives there
it may ask of unknown persons where the deceased fell,
where the wad was found, where Gatmaitan was, and
where Mateo Arcilla was." All of which opposing counsel
thought had been already proved.
The court expressed its willingness to make the inspection, as the result would be evidence for both parties
after the defense had produced its rebuttal testimony,
and upon the defense announcing that it had no rebuttal
testimony, the case was closed.
The court made the inspection; Valdez was not present,
but his counsel were. There is an opposition of affidavits
submitted upon a motion for new trial. Those submitted
by defendant (three of which were in almost exactly the
same words) averred that the persons making them were
present at the inspection by the court and saw the judge
examine the various points at the scene of the crime and
the point where Gatmaitan stood when he fired the murderous shot. That they also saw the widow of the deceased show the manner in which her husband fell-she
illustrating-and that she also told the judge "certain
facts which happened at the time of the murder." That
they also saw Captain Crockett, of the constabulary, point
out to the judge the places in the stairway and in the house
where the shot had penetrated, and saw him walk with
the judge and point out to him certain streets and houses
connected with the case, and also saw the judge and such
officer and the attorneys in the case and other persons
examine other places.
One of the counsel for the defense also filed an affidavit.
It averred that the judge went to the scene of the killing,
accompanied by the attorneys for both sides, but that

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S

neither Valdez nor his attorneys were consulted by the
judge as to whether or not Valdez desired to accompany
the court. That the widow of the deceased "explained
to the judge many occurrences which she claimed had
taken place on the night of the killing, . .' . what she
claimed to have said to the deceased just prior to the killing, and illustrated how and where the deceased had fallen,
and discussed many other matters in connection with
the case, during all of which time she was crying and
wringing her hands in grief." That Captain Crockett
was charged by at least one witness as being an official
"of a body which had forced and intimidated" the witness
to give false testimony against Valdez. That Captain
Crockett pointed out bullet marks to the judge, pointed
out where the shot was fired as indicated by Gatmaitan,
and made other statements to the judge that Gatmaitan
had made to him "as to other circumstances of the case."
That Captain Crockett walked through the streets with
the judge and pointed out to him various objects which
had been referred to during the trial, part of the time being
alone with the judge. That Captain Crockett discussed
distances between objects, giving his opinion of the same,
and particularly the distance from the house of the deceased to the house of Valdez, and told the judge in that
connection that he had measured such distance with a
"'speedometer' on his motorcycle." That during the inspection the affiant made objections as attorney for Valdez
as to the conduct of the widow and Crockett but they were
allowed to continue their conversations with the judge.
These affidavits were distinctly and circumstantially
contradicted by affidavits accompanied by photographs of
the positions of the judge and the persons involved. One
of the affidavits was by Captain Crockett and two of them
were by the attorneys who prosecuted the case, both of
whom were present at the inspection and in such relation
to it as to know what occurred.

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The Supreme Court, in passing upon the motion, said:
.',A careful examination of these affidavits and the counteraffidavits filed by the appellee satisfies us that nothing
more than inspection of the scene of the murder was made
by the trial judge, and that no evidence whatever was
taken 6n that occasion; and we are of opinion that under
all the circumstances there was no violation of the constitutional right of the prisoner to be confronted with the
witnesses. People v. Thorn, 156 N. Y. 286, 42 L. R. A.
368, and the cases cited in the extended note in the annotated report."
Such being the record, we must assume that the judge
in his inspection of the scene of the homicide was not improperly addressed by any one and, in the presence of
counsel, did no more than visualize the testimony of the
witnesses-giving it a certain picturesqueness, it may be,
but not adding to or changing it. It would be going a
great way to say that the requirement of the Philippine
Code, carrying the constitutional guaranty to an accused
to "meet the witnesses face, to face," was violated and
could not be waived. And iwe think practically Valdez'
presence was waived.
But, aside from any question of waiver, it would be
pressing the right of an accused too far and Diaz v. United
States, 223 U. S.442, beyond its principle to so hold. As
well might it be said that an accused is entitled to be with
the judge in his meditations and that he could entertain
no conception nor form any judgment without such personal presence.
The judgment should not be reversed upon a mere
abstraction. It is difficult to divine how the inspection,
even if the affidavits of the defendants should be taken
at their face value, added to or took from the case as
presented.
It follows that the judgment of the Supreme Court must
be and it is
Affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE CLARKE, dissenting.

I greatly regret that I cannot concur in the opinion of
the court in this case and the fact that the decision must
cost two men their lives impels me to state as briefly as I
may my reasons for dissenting from it.
We have before us the record only in the case of Emilio
Valdez.
Valdez is described in the opinion of the trial judge as
"a highly educated man and very prominent both on
account of his social standing and his wealth," and by the
Supreme Court as "a recognized leader of an active political faction and a member of one of the richest, most powerful and influential families in the community."
He was convicted of lying concealed with another and
of shooting, in the early evening, one Eusebio Yuson,
also a man of prominence, as he was mounting an outside
stairway to the second story of his village home. Pursuant to the practice of the Philippine Islands, the case
was tried by a judge without the aid of a jury.
The guilt or innocence of Valdez turns upon the testimony of one Juan Gatmaitan, who was found by the
trial court to be so "densely ignorant a man, of so low an
order of intelligence and so lacking in instruction both
mental and moral" that upon finding him guilty of participating in the murder, the court on this account, reduced his sentence from death to life imprisonment.
The Supreme Court says of him that he "is a convicted
cattle thief"; that "his testimony in his own behalf is
wholly unworthy of credit" and that in his own case he
repudiated all of his testimony in the Valdez case and
testified in a manner "so incoherent, irrational and incredible as to cast doubt on all that he said in his own
behalf."
To this we must add that this witness Gatmaitan first
confessed to having murdered Yuson, without mentioning

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.,
244 U. S.

CLAkn.E, J., dissenting.

Valdez. That afterwards, but two months before the
trial of Valdez, he made affidavit that he and one Mateo
Arcilla went to Valdez' house during the eItrly evening
of the day of the murder, that Valdez there gave them a
shotgun in the village street, and that then the two, without Valdez, went and concealed themselyes on the lot of
Yuson and when he came home "I [Gatmaitan] discharged
both barrels of the shotgun at him at the same time and
then ran to Valdez' house and delivered the shotgun to
N ext he gave testimony, such as we shall see, on the
trial of Valdez and eight days later made oath in prison
that the local constables had tortured him for three weeks,
not allowing him to sleep day or night, and thereby had
forced him to, confess that he and, Valdez had committed
the murder, when the truth was he did not know who
killed Yuson.
Nine days after this, again under oath, he denied all
torture and persecution and says that his testimony on the,
trial of Valdez was true.
And finally the Supreme Court says that on his own
trial he repudiated his testimony in the trial of Valdez,
denied all knowledge of the crime and attempted to establish an alibi for himself.
Such is the witness who tells the following amazing
story on which Valdez is sentenced to death:
I can neither read nor write. I never talked with Valdez
but three times in my life. The first time I was looking
for sugar cane seed and he said to me that "he wished to
win my friendship,"-nothing else and we parted. The
second time we met in Valdez' seed field and he offered
me a business, which, according to his own statement,
was an easy one. I asked him what kind of a business it
was ahd he said to me "that I should kill Eusebio Yuson
and that he would pay me 900 pesos" ($450). I told him
I could not please him because I was very busy with my work

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

and no one could relieve me in said work. And he told
me to say nothing about it to any one and thus we parted.
The third time I met Valdez he came to my hut in my
sugar cane fields about five o'clock of a Sunday evening
(the evening of the murder) and he invited me to return
to town and I rode with him in his calesa (carriage) to his
home. During this drive of about an hour he said nothing
to me. When we arrived at his house he left me in the
street and went into the house. When the bell struck the
time of evening prayer as he did not come down from the
house I thought that he was praying and when he did
come down from the house he said nothing to me but
handed me a shotgun.
"Q. And what did you do when you received the gun?
A. He still invited me to go to Loasan.
Q. What did he do?
A. He followed me.
Q. Where did you go?
A. To the house of Lieutenant Eusebio Yuson."
He says that on the way to Yuson's house he and Valdez
stopped at a store and one Figueroa came and told them
that Yuson was already there and they then approached
Yuson's house and located themselves in the fence near
the staircase (outside the house leading to the second story)
and when Yuson arrived Valdez ordered the witness to
shoot.
"Q. And what did you do?
A. I tried to shoot but the gun would not go off.
Q. And then?
A. He approached me and said 'Son of a Whore, he was
able to go up and you won't shoot' and he showed me
how to shoot and right at that moment the gun went off."
On cross-examination he says he pulled the two triggers
and that the gun would not go off and that then Valdez
showed him how to shoot. "I was holding the shotgun
this way [indicating] and he was showing me how to shoot,

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

C.4xE, J., dissenting.

saying, 'This way,' and without more ado the shot came
out, the shot gun fell and I was frightened and ran away
from the place and I know nothing more." He says he
had never handled fire arms before, and did not know how
to shoot a gun and that he did not tell Valdez that he did
not know how to shoot. The shot thus fired was the one
fatal to Yuson.
I shall not go into the testimony of the corroborating
witnesses for the prosecution, Mateo Arcilla, who is
described by the Supreme Court as "a convicted wife
murderer, sentenced to life imprisonmetit for that crime
since he appeared as a witness at the trial of Valdez,"
and Figueroa who with Gatmaitan and Arcilla the trial
judge says pleaded guilty before a justice of the peace
to murdering Yuson, without implicating Valdez.
The only motive suggested on the part of Valdez for
murdering Yuson is a difference between him or his
mother (it is not clear which) and Yuson about some
boundary and water rights, which had been amicably
settled four years before the murder, and an indefinite
business rivalry, which is only remotely alluded to by the
widow of the deceased.
A careful reading of this entire record convinces me,
and the opinions of the lower courts throughout proceed
hpon the assumption, that the conviction of Valdez could
not be thought of except this story of Gatmaitan which
I have thus detailed from the record is believed to be true.
Under the authority of the decisions of this court in
Wiborg v. United States, 163 U. S. 632, 658; Clyatt v.
United States, 197 U. S.207, and in Diaz v. United States,
223 U. S. 454; I have thus examined this record for the
purpose of determining whether there is any substantial
evidence to be found in it to warrant the conviction of the
defendant, and my conclusion is that there is no such
evidence, because after making full allowance for differences of habit, of life and of character of the persons in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE, J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

volved and of the witnesses, I cannot conceive it possible
that a man such as Valdez is described to be, even if he
desired the death of an enemy or a rival (as to which there
is no evidence) would bribe to shoot him an entire stranger
of the most ignorant type obtainable, who had never used
fire arms; should promise him money to commit the murder; should deliberately hand him, in the early evening,
in a village street, the gun with which to shoot the victim;
and then should go with the murderer to the scene and participate in the assassinationby pulling the trigger which fired
the fatal shot.
Comment wpuld be superfluous. The mere narration of
the story makes it impossible for me to consent to making
it the legal basis for depriving a man of his life, for the
testimony of Gatmaitan is not merely mistaken testimony
due to faulty recollection or statement, but one of his
series of stories is necessarily, consciously and corruptly
false, and therefore the other should not be relied upon,
especially not in a capital case. It is not uncommon for
ignorant and corrupt men to falsely charge others with
doing what they imagine that they themselves, in -their
narrow minds and experience, would have done under the
circumstances of a given case, and the surest check, often
the only check, on such perjury, is to recognize the impossibility that men of larger instruction and resources
and experience could have been guilty of such conduct.
It is, of course, possible that Valdez committed or inspired this crime but it is impossible to believe that he
wQuld have committed it in the crude, certain to be detected, manner described by Gatmaitan.
This conclusion is arrived at putting wholly aside the
defense of the accused, in which he took the witness stand
and, so far as the record shows, sustained himself through
a searching cross-examination, in a categorical denial of
the, to me, utterly incredible, stories of the prosecuting
witnesses.

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

CIARKE,J., dissenting.

But even if the evidence in 'the case were deemed by
me credible I still should conclude that the judgment
should be reversed for the purely legal reason which I
shall now state.
When the state closed its evidence in rebuttal the,
prosecuting attorney requested the court (there was no
jury) to view the scene of the murder. To this counsel
for the accused assented but with the request that "no
testimony be taken because it produced great confusion
when trying to examine witnesses at the place of the
occurrence." To this request the prosecuting attorney
replied: "What Mr. Southworth says would be very
advisable, but I believe it would be very advisable also
not to dispense with the task in which the court may
exercise its discretion, so that when said court arrives
there it may ask of unknown persons where the deceasedfell,
where the wad was found, where Gatmaitanwas, and where
Mateo Arcilla was."
Then this follows:
"The Court: Tlie court has no objection to making
that inspection after the defense has produced its rebuttal evidence, not showing in the record the result of said
inspection.
Mr. Southworth: We have no rebuttal evidence.
The Court: So that we may close the case?
Mr. Chicote: Yes, sir.
The Court: Good, tomorrow you may present your
arguments. The session of the court is closed."
The record further shows that the judge visited the
scene of the murder, that Valdez was confined in prison
several miles away at the time of the visit and that he was
neither required nor invited to be-present at the view.
The visit to the scene by the judge without the presence
of the accused is assigned as one of the reasons why a new
trial should be granted, on the ground that such action
violated § 5 of the Act of Congress of July 1st, 1902,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE, J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

known as the "Philippine Bill," and also Article VI of the
Amendments to the Constitution of the United States,
providing that the accused "shall enjoy the right to be
confronted with the witnesses against him."
What was done by the judge at this view is the subject
of much dispute and conflict of statement made in affidavits on motion for a new trial. A typical statement in
the interest of the accused of what occurred is made by
his attorney, who is described in the record as a reputable
member of the bar, who stated that the widow of the deceased explained to the judge what she claimed had taken
place on the night of the murder, pointing out where the
deceased had fallen, and discussing many other matters
in connection with the case, she weeping and wringing her
hands all of the time that such interview was in progress,
and that one Crockett, a constable, was active in indicating to the court various points and circumstances
connected with the murder, all of this against objections
made by counsel as to the conduct of the widow and
Crockett.
A typical affidavit introduced by the State was by the
private prosecutor Buencamino, who stated that he was
present at the view, that the judge "neither received any
evidence nor admitted any testimony referring to the
case then being prosecuted against Valdez, and according
to my best recollection I did not see the widow crying,
but I saw her at a place distant from the judge. I also
state that Captain Crockett did not give any evidence
before the judge."
An assistant attorney for the Government made affidavit that at no time did he see the widow crying or talking
to the judge, or illustrating how her husband had fallen.
However, a photograph of the scene at the time of the
view indicates that it must have been a very unusual local
event for a large crowd was present, and in this photograph
the widow is shown in a position which must have been

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

very close to the judge and it is very significant that there
is no statement from the judge as to just what he did and
as to what occurred at the view.
It has long been familiar, textbook, law, that a viewing
of the premises where the crime is alleged to have been
committed is part of the trial. Thus, in Wharton's
Criminal Pl. & Pr., 9th ed., § 707, it is said: "The visit [of
the jury] must be made . . . in the presence of the
accused, who is entitled to have all evidence received by
the jury taken in his presence." And in Enc. of Pl. & Pr.,
vol. XXII, p. 1059, it is said:" In criminal cases the accused
is entitled to be present if the jury is sent to view the locus
bf the crime, as a view in the absence of the accused would
violate his constitutional right to appear in person and be
confronted with the witnesses against him."
But the law upon this subject has been recently summed
up by this court (Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S. 442, 454)
in an admirable statement, which in my judgment rules
the case before us, and is as follows:
"We are thus brought to the question whether the
provision in § 5 of the Philippine Civil Government Act,
securing to the accused in all criminal prosecutions 'the
right to be heard by himself and counsel,' makes his
presence indispensable at every stage of the trial, or invests him with a right whiqh he is always free to assert
but which hb also may waive by his voluntary act. Of
course if that provision makes his presence thus indispensable, it is of no moment that the Philippine laws
do not go so far, for they cannot lessen its force or effect.
An identical or similar provision is found in the constitutions of the several States, and its substantial equivalent
is embodied in the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution of
the United States. It is the right which these constitutional provisions secure to persons accused of crime in this
country that was carried to the Philippines by the congressional enactment, and, therefore, according to afamiliar rule,

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
CLARKE,

J., dissenting.

244 U. S.

the prevailing course of decision here may and should be
accepted as determinative of the nature and measure of the
right there. Kepner v. United States, 195 U. S. 100, 124.
" .
In cases of felony our courts, with substantial
accord, have regarded it as extending to every stage of the
trial, inclusive of the empaneling of the jury and the reception of the verdict, and as being scarcely less important to
the accused than the right of trialitself. And with like accord
they have regarded an accused who is in custody and one
who is charged with a capital offense as incapable of waiving
the right; the one, because his presence or absence is not
within his own control, and the other because, in addition
to being usually in custody, he is deemed to suffer the constraint naturally incident to an apprehension of the awful
penalty that would follow conviction. , .
"The reasoning upon which this rule of. decision rests
is clearly indicated in Barton v. State, supra, [67 Georgia,
653] where it is said by the Supreme Court of Georgia:
"'It is the right of the defendant in cases of felony
. to be present at all stages of the trial-especially at the rendition of the verdict, and if he be in such
custody and confinement . . . as not to be present
unless sent for and relieved by the court, the reception of
the verdict during such compulsory absence is so illegal
. The prinas to necessitate the setting it aside. . .
ciple thus ruled is good sense and sound law; because he
cannot exercise the right to be present at the rendition
of the verdict when in jail, unless the officer of the court
brings him into the court by its order."'
It is difficult to imagine a case which would show the
value of this rule more strongly than the case we are considering. If the description of what occurred as given
by counsel for the defendant is even approximately true
it is not improbable that even the most stoical judge
might have been influenced by it, and the presence of the
defendant might very well have had a counterbalancing

VALDEZ v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

CLaRKE, J., dissenting.

influence, and in addition to this he was entitled to the
benefit of any suggestion which he might have been able
to make through his counsel.
It is very clear to my mind that Diaz v. United States,
supra, in principle rules this case and that the viewing of
the scene of the murder by the judge without the presence
of the accused requires that it be reversed and a new trial
granted.
That the conclusion I have reached in this case is not
idiosyncratic or the result of an undue regard for a man's
life when it is adequately proved to have been forfeited
under the law is, I think, sufficiently shown by the fact
that two of the members of the Supreme Court of the
Philippine Islands expressed their estimate of the case
made against Valdez by this record in these terms:
Moreland, J., dissenting: "I dissent. I think that the
least the accused is entitled to under the facts and the
law is a new trial. I believe, however, that he is entitled
to an acquittal upon the facts as presented." And
Grant T. Trent, J.: "I dissent on the ground that
the prosecution has not proved the guilt of the
appellants of the crime of which they were convicted."
For the reasons thus stated, I am of opinion that this
record does not show any credible testimony supporting
the judgment, that upon the authorities cited it rests
upon error of law gravely prejudicial to the accused and
that it therefore should be reversed and a new trial
granted.
I am authorized to say that the CHIEF JUSTICE cOncurs
in this opinion.

