MISSOURI, KANS. & T.EX. RY. CO. v. WARD.
244 U. S.

383

Syllabus.

attention to. Dickerson v. Colgrove, 100 U. S. 578, 580.
There is in fact no inconsistency between the claimants'
earlier acts and their attempt to recover on the bond.
The Surety Company's contention is without merit.

Fourth: The specific objection made to the claim of the
United States Equipment Company, for rental of cars,
track and equipment used at the Naval Training Station

and the expense of loading the plant and freight thereon
to and from the station is also unfounded. The Surety
Company contends that this is not supplying "labor and
materials." The equipment was used in the prosecution

of the work. Material was thus supplied, although,a loan
serving the purpose, no purchase of it was made. The
expense of loading and freight were properly included with
the fixed rental as recoverable under the bond. Title

Guaranty & Trust Co. v. Crane Co., 219 U. S. 24, 34.
Judgment affirmed.
Dissenting: MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER and MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY OF TEXAS ET AL. v. WARD ET AL., AND

HOUSTON & TEXAS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS, THIRD SUPREME
JUDICIAL DISTRICT, OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.
No. 241. Submitted April 30, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.
Under the Carmack Amendment, the bill of lading issued by the initial
carrier governs the entire transportation; the liability of each paiticipating carrier is fixed by its valid, applicable terms; and new con-

OCTOBER .TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

ditions can not be introduced by a connecting carrier through a
second bill of lading.
Without there being anybreak in the transportation or readjustment
of rates, a connecting carrier issued a second bill of lading containing
a stipulation, not in the original bill, by which its liability for daniages was made conditional on service of a written claim within a certain time. Held, that the shipper's acceptance of the new bill was
without effect upon the rights of the parties.
Under the Carmack Amendment, acceptance by the shipper without consideration of a second bill of lading governing a part of the
through transportation and which contains new terms more favorable to the carrier is without effect.
169 S. W. Rep. 1035, affirmed.
THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Alexander Britton, Mr. Joseph M. Bryson, Mr.
Charles C. Huff, Mr. Alexander H. McKnight and Mr.
C. S. Burg for plaintiffs in error.
No appearance for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the

court.
This is an action to recover damages for injuries to
cattle in the course of an interstate shipment. The cattle
were delivered on August 23, 1912, by J. R. Ward to the
Houston and Texas Central Railroad Company at Llano,
Texas, for transportation by it to Elgin, Texas, and over
connecting lines, the Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway
Company of Texas, and the Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Railway Company, to Winona, Oklahoma. The Houston
Company issued a through bill of lading in the form of the
"live stock contract" in common use, and charged a
through rate, which was paid by the shipper as agreed.
The cattle arrived at destination in a crippled and debilitated condition, alleged to have resulted from the

MISSOURI, KANS. & TEX. RY. CO. v. WARD.
244 U. S.

385

Opinion of the Court.

delay, rough handling, and other negligence of the carriers.
Plaintiffs brought this suit for damages in the District
Court for Llano County, joining the three carriers as defendants. The petition contained no reference to the
Carmack Amendment (June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat.
584, 595).1 The Housbon Company answered, setting up a
provision in the bill of lading limiting liability to injuries
occurring on its own line; and alleging that the cattle were
transported to Elgin with ordinary care and there delivered in good condition to the connecting carrier. The
Missouri, Kansas & Texas Railway Company of Texas,
in its answer, denied the allegations of the complaint and,
in addition, alleged that it had accepted the cattle at
Elgin under a second bill of lading or live stock contract,
executed by it and by one E. A. Barrer, as agent of the
shipper; that the plaintiff had failed to comply with a
stipulation therein, requiring, as a condition precedent
to liability, that a written claim for damages be filed
within thirty days after the happening of the injuries
complained of; and that "the §aid shipment constituted
and was an interstate shipment, originating in Llano,
Llano County, Texas, and destined to Wynona, in the
State of Oklahoma, . . . and the said provisions of
said bill of lading were and are, each and all valid and
binding upon [under?] the laws of Congress relating to
interstate commerce in force at the time said bill of lading
was executed and said shipment made."
The record is silent as to the circumstances under which
this second bill of lading was executed; and although it is
alleged to have been issued in consideration of a special
reduced rate theretofore duly filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission, there is nothing to indicate
that it affected the through rate already agreed upon in
' The rights of the parties are not affected by the Act of March 4,
1915, c. 176, 38 Stat. 1196, dispensing with the necessity of notice of
claim in certain cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

the original bill of lading. This -lower rate referred to appears to have been merely the customary special rate
offered in consideration of an agreed maximum valuation
on the cattle per head. The same agreed value was stipulated in the original bill of lading, which expressly
"limits the liability of carriers in consideration of a lower
rate being granted." The Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Railway Company set up the same defense, alleging that
it had accepted the shipment under the second bill of
lading.
A jury trial having been waived, the case was heard by
the court, and judgment rendered in favor of the Houston
Company, but against the other two defendants in
amounts which were found to represent the damage
suffered in the course of the transportation through the
negligence of their respective agents. Upon appeal by
these defendants, the Court of Civil Appeals of the Third
Supreme Judicial District affirmed the judgment, on the
ground that the liability of the connecting carriers must
be governed by the provisions of the bill of lading issued
by the initial carrier (which did not require a written
claim in thirty days) and that the second bill of lading
was void under the Carmack Amendment. 169 S. W.
Rep. 1035. Upon denial of a petition for rehearing the
case was brought here on writ of error.
The purpose of the Carmack Amendment has been
frequently considered by this court.' It was to create in
the initial carrier unity of responsibility for the transportation to destination. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v.
Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186; Northern Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Wall, 241 U. S. 87, 92. And provisions in the bill of
'Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186;
Adams Express Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; Georgia, Florida & Alabama Ry. Co. v.
Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190; St. Louis, iron Mountain & Southern
Ry. Co. v. Starbird, 243 U. S. 592.

MISSOURI, KANS. & TEX. RY. CO. v. WARD.
244 U. S.

387

Opinion of the Court.

lading inconsistent with that liability are void. Norfolk &
Western Ry. Co. v. Dixie Tobacco Co., 228 U. S. 593. While
the receiving carrier is thus responsible for the whole
carriage, each connecting road may still be sued for damages occurring on its line; and the liability of such participating carrier is fixed by the applicable valid terms of
the original bill of lading.1 The bill of lading required to
be issued by the initial carrier upon an interstate shipment
governs the entire transportation. The terms of the
original bill of lading were not altered by the second
issued by the connecting carrier. As appellants were
already bound to transport the cattle at the rate and upon
the terms named in the original bill of lading, the acceptance by the shipper of the second bill was without consideration and was void.
The Railway Companies contend that while the Carmack Amendment makes the receiving carriers pay for all
liability incurred by the connecting lines, the question
of whether there is any such liability or not must be determined by reference to the separate contracts of each participating carrier, and not to the contract of the initial
carrier alone. If, as contended, a shipper must, in order
to recover, first file his "verified claim" with the connecting carrier who caused the injury, as provided in a
separate bill of lading issued by such carrier, the shipper
would still rest under the burden of determining which of
the several successive carriers was at fault. Such a construction of the Carmack Amendment would defeat its
purpose, which was to relieve shippers of the difficult,
and often impossible, task, of determining on which of
the several connecting lines the damage occurred. F6r
the purpose of fixing the liability, the several carriers must
Georgia, Florida & Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish Milling Co., 241 U. S.
190, 194, 196; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639,
648. See also Southern Ry. Co. v. Prescott, 240 U. S. 632; Cleveland,
Cincinnati,Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Dettlebach, 239 U. S. 588.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

be treated, not as independent contracting parties, but
as one system; and the connecting lines become in effect
mere agents, whose duty it is to forward the goods under
the terms of the contract made by their principal, the
initial carrier. Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside
Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 206; Galveston, Harrisburg & San
Antonio Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481, 491.
The Railway Companies also contend that the acceptance of the second bill of lading operated as a waiver of all
rights thereafter accruing' under the first. The record
discloses no evidence of intention to make such a waiver
and there was no consideration for it. Furthermore as
stated in Georgia, Florida & Alabama Ry. Co. v. Blish
Milling Co., 241 U. S. 190, 197, "the parties could not
waive the terms of the contract under which the shipment
was made pursuant to the Federal Act.

.

.

.

A dif-

ferent view would antagonize the plain policy of the Act
and open the door to the very abuses at which the Act was
aimed."
Judgment affirmed.

MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMMISSION ET AL. v.
MOBILE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI.
No. 256.

Submitted May 1, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

While the power of the States over the railways within their borders
is very great and comprehensive, the property of the railways is
nevertheless protected by the fundamental guaranties of the Constitution, is entitled to as full protection as any other private property devoted to a public use, and can not be taken from its owners
without'just compensation or without due process of law.

