I OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

ROWLAND ET AL., RAILROAD COMMISSIONERS
OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS, v. BOYLE, ADMINISTRATOR OF BOYLE, AND THE ST. LOUIS
& S.AN FRANCISCO RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
No. 252. Argued February 24, 25, 1916; restored to docket for reargument June 12, 1916; reargued May 1, 2, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
Giving weight to the opinion of the District Judge who tried the ease,
this court upon reviewing the evidence agrees with his conclusion
that, as applied to the appellee railroad company, the two-cent
passenger rate fixed by the Arliansas legislature, and freight rates
fixed by the Arkansas Railroad Commission, are confiscatory.
An objection to evidence as hearsay is too late if not taken when the
evidence was introduced.
While this cause was pending in the trial court, the appellee railroad
company, for the purpose of allocating its expenses to intrastate and
interstate freight and passenger traffic in Arkansas, caused minute
and specific reports to be made by its employees of all facts that
would throw light upon the problem in accordance with prescribed
formule and introduced the results in evidence, exhibiting the worksheets and other data to the appellant Railroad Commissioners, who
had opportunity to question them and call for further investigation.
Held, that the returns were made by the employees in the course of
their business and that an objection that the evidence was hearsay
could not in justice be entertained. Held, further, that the two
months of investigation afforded a basis for argument as to constant
conditions.
The possible inaccuracy of apportioning general road maintenance
expenses between freight and passenger service by engine-tonmiles-considered and held not to affect the result of this case.
Whether adoption of the low rates fixed by the State would be followed
by increased intrastate traffic and revenue-Held, too remote and
conjectural a matter to disturb the conclusion.
222 Fed. Rep. 539, affirmed.

ROWLAND v. ST. LOUIS & S. F. R. R. CO.
244 U. S.

107

Opinion of the Court.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Joseph M. Hill and Mr. S. P. Freeling for appellants.
Mr. S. T. Bledsoe and Mr. John M. Moore, with whom
Mr. W. F. Evans was on the briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a bill in equity originally brought by Wilbur
Boyle as a stockholder in the Railroad Company, now one
of the appellees, to prevent it from paying, and the Railroad Commission of Arkansas from enforcing, freight
rates established by the latter, and a two-cent passenger
rate fixed by a statute of 1907, on the ground that both
were confiscatory. A temporary injunction was i~sued,
freight rates were adopted higher than those established
by the State Commission and the three-cent passenger
rate previously in force was restored, a bond being given
for keeping accounts and refunding the difference if the
final decision should uphold the action of the State. Later
by agreement the experiment of a two-and-a-half-cent
passenger rate was tried for eighteen months, and the
final hearing of the cause was postponed to await the
decision of Allen v. St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern
Ry. Co., 230 U. S. 553, in which the same rates were before
the court. That decision was rendered on June 16, 1913,
and forthwith after that and the others reported in 230
U. S., there was a conference of railroad managers and
officials, engineers and others competent to aid, for the
purpose of devising formulas for the division of expenses,
etc., between local and interstate business in accord with
the views of this court, as a step toward determining the
constitutionality of this and other rates sought to be imposed by the States. The Railroad Company then made

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

a laborious attempt to apply the formulas thus reached,
and as a result the injunction was made perpetual subject to a change of circumstances, after a careful discussion
by the District Court. 222 Fed. Rep. 539.
The value of the railroad property for the years 19101913 was admitted. The question in dispute is the usual
one of the division of expense and income between state
and interstate business. The decision below explains
in greater detail than it is necessary to repeat the mthod
of investigation adopted by the Railroad. For the months
of November and December, 1913, it caused the most
minute and specific reports to be made of all the facts that,
by the formulas prepared, would throw light upon the
problem to be solved. Such an investigation is too expensive to be kept up for more than a limited time, but evidence was offered to shov that the figures for the two
months reflected the previous years as to the material
proportions, so far as was possible to judge from the returns previously required by the State.
In establishing local rates a State must be assumed to
intend to confine its action within the limits set by the
Constitution and not to seek an unjust advantage from
the difficulties of dividing income and expense to which we
have referred, but in this case the appellants have contented themselves with a purely negative attitude. There
is made even a preliminary objection that the evidence is
hearsay. We have not observed that the objection was
taken when the evidence was introduced and if not it would
be too late. Diaz v. United States, 223 U. S. 442, 450. But
it is enough to say that the Railroad. adopted the only
practicable mode of presenting its results, that it exhibited
its work-sheets and data to the appellants, that the returns were made by the employees in the course of their
business and that if the appellants had desired to question any of the data they could have called for further
verification. It seems to us that technical rules are sat-

ROWLAND v. ST. LOUIS & S. F. R. R. CO.
244 U. S.

109,

Opinion of the Court.

isfied and that justice plainly requires this objection to be
set aside.
We hardly can avoid approaching the discussion of the
merits in the light of a few facts indicating that the probabilities are on the Railroad's side. Weight naturally
attaches to the opinion of the judge who heard the case.
Apart from that, it is not to be forgotten that this same
Commission, with others, recognizing the incongruity
between the local passenger rates and those in force between different States, applied to the Interstate Commerce Commission to have the latter changed; that the
Commission found that the three-cent rate was not shown
to be unreasonable and that it dismissed their petition,
reminding them that the adjustment properly should
come not from the United States but from themselves.
Corporation Commission of Oklahoma v. Atchison, Topeka
& Santa Fe Ry. Co., 31 I. C. C. 532. The average haul
in Arkansas is shorter than the average of the road, the'
density of traffic is less and the maintenance of the road
is more expensive. We are aware that there is some contradiction upon this last point but we have no doubt of
the fact that the cost is greater in Arkansas than the
average cost of the line.
We do not propose to follow the arguments that have
been addressed to us into the elaborate tables of figures.
We are satisfied in the main with the discussion that they
received below and shall refer only to one or two details
that seem to need mention, without discussing the merits
or demerits of the formulas. We are of opinion that the
Railroad has 'shown successfully the state rates to be
confiscatory and that even if some errors are detected
they are not enough to change the result. We agree with
the District Judge that the two months of investigation
afforded a basis for argument as to constant conditions.
We agree that it is proved that the local expenses are
proportionally very much greater than the interstate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

In fixing the exact rates it may be that mistakes were
made. Perhaps the most important doubt is raised by the
fact that the Railroad apportioned the cost of maintaining
tracks and track structures, so far as not definitely as-,
signable, between freight and passenger service on the
basis of engine ton miles (the weight of the engine in
working order multiplied by the distance it moves in the
one service or the other). This criterion, although upheld
by the court below, is not regarded as certainly the best
by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Western Passenger Fares, 37 I. C. C. 1, 13. It gave for the test period
51.19 per cent. to freight and 49.31 to passenger, whereas
the Commission's figures gave a larger percentage to
freight. The result of a difference of eleven per cent.
would be to convert the deficit alleged by the Railroad
and found by the court below in intrastate returns into a
profit of less than 1 per cent. upon the agreed valuation.
But the extent of the error, if any, is doubtful, and neither
that nor any other possible errors would turn the scale.
The Railroad, after getting the actual returns at the
three-cent and two-and-a-half-cent passenger rate and'
the freight rates allowed by the court, deducted the sums
necessary to bring the revenue down to what it would have
been had the state rates been followed. It is objected
that this does not allow for the increase of travel that
would follow the reduction. The Railroad replies and the
court below found that the increase is mainly at the expense of interstate revenue when the combined local rates
are less than the interstate one. Whether this exhausts
the matter or not we are of opinion that upon this record
the supposed increase is too conjectural properly to affect
our conclusion. The direct effect of the reduction is
plain-the remote one is at best a guess.
Light is thrown upon the position of the State by the
decision of the Interstate Commerce Commission in
Memphis v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacifji Ry. Co., 39

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

I. C. C. 256, 265: "The present unduly low rates within
Arkansas are due at least in part to the attempt by the
Railroad Commission of Arkansas to protect Arkansas
shippers and build up Arkansas jobbing centres." In
that case it was intimated that the carriers would be required to remove discriminations resulting from the unduly low rates, as was done in the Shreveport Case. Houston, East & West Texas Ry. Co. v. United States, 234 U. S.
342. Upon the whole matter we are of opinion that the
decree below was right and it is affirmed.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. WILDCAT, A MINOR, ET AL.
ON CERTIFICATE FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 741.

Argued April 11, 12, 13, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

Acting under the enrollment provisions of the Curtis Act of June 28,
1898, and the Creek Agreement of March 1, 1901, the Dawes Commission was a quasi judicial tribunal, and enrollments made by it
and approved by the Secretary of the Interior are presumptively
correct; and, unless impeached by very clear evidence of fraud, mistake or arbitrary action, they are conclusive.
Whether or not a person alleged to be a member of the Creek.Nation
was living on April 1, 1899, is one of the questions going to the right
of such person or his heirs to have his name enrolled under ยง 28 of
Agreement of March 1, 1901, which the Dawes Commission was
competent to decide; it is not a jurisdictional question, and an incorrect determination of it does not necessarily render the enrollment
void. Scott v. McNeal, 154 U. S. 34, distinguished.
In enrolling members of the Creek Tribe in 1901, the Dawes Commission was authorized, to presume that a person enrolled as a member
of the tribe on the tribal rolls of 1895 was living on April 1, 1899, in
the absence of proof of his death before that day or of circumstances
indicating that he had died before the commission acted.

