OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

244 U. S.

LEWIS, EXECUTRIX OF LEWIS, v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT O1 CLAIMS.
No. 197.

Submitted April 23, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917..

The clause in the Sundry Civil Appropriation Act of March 4, 1909,
c. 299, 35 Stat. 945, 987, appropriating money to enable the Secretary of the Interior to complete unfinished work pertaining to surveys in Louisiana and other States "caused by the discontinuance of
the offices of surveyors-general in those States," abolished the office
of surveyor general in Louisiana, repealing by necessary implication
§ 2207 of the Revised Statutes creating that office.
In determining the effect of the later enactment it must be assumed
that Congress was familiar with action whereby the Interior Department had already undertaken to terminate the office, which the act
recognizes as discontinued.
In view of § 1765, Rev. Stats., which fixes the compensation of federal
officers at the salaries established by law with only such additional
compensation as is by law authorized and explicitly appropriated,
the surveyor general of Louisiana was not entitled to the fees for
furnishing copies of plats and transcripts of records which the Act
of March 3, 1831, § 5, c. 116, 4 Stat. 492, required him to collect but
did not undertake to dispose of.
50 Ct. Cis. 226, affirmed.

THIS suit was instituted by James. Lewis, and revived
upon his death by Josephine B. Lewis, as executrix, to
recover the sum of $2,000 salary claimed to be due him
from the United States as surveyor general of Louisiana
for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1909, and ending

June 30, 1910, and to recover the further sum of $2,287.80
claimed to belong to him as perquisites of this office and

paid over his protest into the Treasury of the United States
between May 1, 1907, and June 30, 1909, at the direction
of his superior officer, the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, a total of $4,287.80, for which he prayed judg-

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

ment. The Court of Claims found for the United States
on both-items and dismissed claimant's petition (50 Ct.
Cls. 226), and it is from this judgment that the appeal has
been taken to this court.
From the findings of fact made by the Court of Claims,
the following appears: On or about January 18, 1905,
James Lewis, who had previously held the office, was
reappointed and recommissioned surveyor general of
Louisiana, and under this commission he administered
the duties of the office continuously until July 15, 1909,
on which date he was deprived of the possession and
custody of the records and other property of the office
by John H. Batchelor, a clerk detailed from the General
Land Office of the United States and acting under directions from the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
as will hereafter more fully appear.
On December 7, 1908, Lewis received a letter from the
Commissioner of the General Land Office dated December 5, 1908, in which the Commissioner informed him
that it was proposed to discontinue the office of surveyor
general for the district of Louisiana on June 30, 1909, and
on or about May 13, 1909, he received a letter from the
Commissioner, dated May 11, 1909, reading in part as
follows:
"As the office of the surveyor general of Louisiana will
be permanently closed and discontinued on July 1, 1909,
the records thereof, excepting such as may be required
for use in this office, will be turned over to the State of
Louisiana when proper provision has been made by the
legislature for- their safe-keeping and providing for free
access to them by the authorities of the United States, as
pFovided by §§ 2218, 2220, and 2221, Revised Statutes.
"As no provision has been made by the legislature for
the reception of the records under the conditions above
stated, it will become necessary to appoint a custodian of
them on July 1, at a salary of $1,000 per annum, who will

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

244 U. S.

retain them in. his custody until the required law has been
provided. . .
On or about June 19, 1909, Lewis received from the
Commissioner a letter, as follows:
"As you have been verbally informed that Congress
omittel to include an appropriation for the maintenance
of your office, you are aware that it will be necessary to
discontinue it after June 30 next.
"You are now advised that Mr. John H. Batchelor,
pf this office, has been detailed to visit your office and
supervise the transfer of its records to the State building
at Baton'Rouge, La.; also to select such of the records and
Government property as it is thought best should be
moved to this city for use in this office. You are directed
to furnish him all facilities for carrying out this purpose
and give him such assistance as he may need.
"It is assumed that you have already prepared an inventory of the records and property, which will be verified
by Mr. Batchelor.
"The State authorities having failed to provide by
legislation for the custody and care of the records which
by law are to be turned over to them, it will be necessary,
pending the. enactment of suitable provision for a place
for the records, to give the same in charge of a custodian.
Mr. Arthur Gascon, of your office, has been selected for
this office, and he will receipt to Mr. Batchelor for the
records by schedule.
"Property which is not a part of the records, such as
furniture not belonging to the Treasury Department,
and stationery, including surveying. instruments, drafting
instruments, etc., will be examined by Mr. Batchelor,
and that which is serviceable and can be transported
profitably to this city will be boxed up for transmission.
The remainder will be stored and advertised for sale at
auction, either under Mr. Gascon or other officer, or
turned over to the local land office.

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

"Mr. Gascon will be instructed separately."
Pursuant to the plan outlined in this letter, on June 19,
1909, Batchelor, a clerk detailed from the General Land
Office, acting under instructions from the Commissioner,
dated June 17, 1909, arrived at the surveyor general's
office in New Orleans, La., and assumed supervision of
the closing of that office and the disposition of the records
and other property therein, caused inventories of said
records and other property to be made, and, on July 15,
1909, the same having been completed, took said records
and property out of the possession and custody of Lewis
and gave to him a formal receipt therefor. Thereafter,
on the same day, Batchelor, acting under his instructions,
turned over the records and other property of the office
to Arthur Gascon, formerly chief clerk in the office of the
surveyor general, as custodian thereof, Gascon having
been appointed custodian thereof by the Secretary of the
Interior on June 16, 1909, to take effect July 1, 1909, the
appointment being in the following language:
"Arthur Gascon, of Louisiana, is hereby appointed
custodian of the documents and records pertaining to the
office of the surveyor general of Louisiana upon the discontinuance of that office, at a salary of $1,000 per annum,
to take effect upon July 1, 1909.
"Salary payable from the appropriation for completing
field notes, etc., of surveys in Minnesota, North Dakota,
and Louisiana.
"By transfer from chief clerk, office of surveyor general
of Louisiana."
On January 9, 1915, the President issued the following
order:
"The Secretary of the Interior.
"Sir: The action of the Interior Department in discontinuing the office of the United States surveyor general
for the district of Louisiana from and after June 30, 1909,
as shown by the letters of the Commissioner of the Gen-

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

244 U. S.

eral Land Office to James Lewis, surveyor general of
Louisiana, dated December 5, 1908, and May 11, 1909,
and the appointment by the Secretary of the Interior,
under date of June 16, 1909, of Arthur Gascon as custodian
of the, records of the office of the surveyor general of
Louisiina, to take effect July 1, 1909, copies of which
letters and appointment are hereto attached, is hereby
ratified and confirmed.
"WOODROW WILSON, President."
The records of the surveying district of Louisiana were
not completed on June 30, 1909, or on July 15, 1909, and
the State of Louisiana did not provide by law for the reception and safe-keeping as public records of the field
notes, maps, records, and other papers appertaining to
land titles in said State, which belonged to the office of
United States Surveyor General of Louisiana, and for
the free access to the same of the authorities of the United
States, until June 10, 1910, on which day the Governor
of the State approved an act of the general assembly
known as Act No. 6 of the Session Acts of the General
Assembly of the State of Louisiana for the year 1910, and
passed for that purpose. Acting under authority which
was vested in him for that purpose by this act of the General Assembly, Fred J. Grace, register of the state land
office of Louisiana, *on June 30, 1910, formally receipted
to Gascon, custodian as aforesaid for the records of the
United States Surveyor General's office of Louisiana, for
the plats, field notes, books, papers, etc., constituting
the records of said office, and on that day Gascon, for
and in behalf of the.United States, formally delivered the
said records to-the State of Louisiana in the person of its
duly authorized representative, Fred J. Grace.
For the period beginning July 1, 1909, and ending
June 30, 1910, .both inclusive, Lewis received no salary or
compensation from the United States as surveyor general
of Louisiana.

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

During Lewis' period of service as surveyor general of
Louisiana he furnished copies of plats of surveys and
transcripts from the records of his office to various individuals requiring them, and asked and received therefor
from such individuals fees, as compensation for the service
rendered in furnishing such copies and transcripts, in
amounts equal to or less than those authorized in said
§ 5 of the Act of Congress approved March 3, 1831, 4
Stat. 492, entitled "An act to create the office of surveyor
of the public lands for the state of Louisiana." Some of
such copies and transcripts were certified by him under
the seal of his office, and for such certifications he received
from the individuals requiring the same fees at the rate
of $1 for each certificate and seal. From the time Lewis
assumed the authority, powers and duties of his office
up to and including April 30, 1907, he retained as his
personal property the fees received by him, construing
said § 5 of the Act of March 3, 1831, as conferring upon
him this right, in addition to and separate from his salary
as surveyor general.
From the time the office of surveyor general for Louisiana was established up to the time Lewis last entered
upon its duties, the incumbents of the office rendered
similar services to individuals and received and retained
fees for such services as their personal property, and in this
construction of the Act of March 3, 1831, up to and
including April 30, 1907, the Commissioner of the General Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior acquiesced.
Upon April 15, 1907, the Commissioner of the General
Land Office issued a circular order to Lewis, requiring
him to desist from retaining these fees as his personal
property, and requiring him, when application should be
made by individuals for exemplified copies of plats or
other records in his office, to first furnish the applicant
with a memorandum of the exact cost thereof at the rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Statement of the Case.

244 U. S.

established by law for registers and receivers for like services, and to require said applicant to deposit the amount
indicated in a United States depository to the credit of the
Treasurer of the United States, and directing Lewis, after
that should have been done, to furnish the copies and
transcripts ordered.
Lewis protested against this order in a letter to the
Commissioner dated May 3, 1907, in which he informed
the Commissioner that his office had hitherto based its
charges for copies from its records upon § 5 of the Act of
March 3, 1831; that the rates established by law for registers and receivers for furnishing such copies were not applicable to his office; and that the fees for furnishing such
copies had been construed by the surveyor general of
Louisiana as: perquisites allowed to him, as appeared from
the correspondence of his office with the General Land
Office as far back as 1860. To this letter the Commissioner
replied, on May 9, 1907, that the Act of March 3, 1831, being unrepealed, Lewis should continue to charge the fees
established under the act, to the extent of which direction
the circular order of April 15, 1907, stood modified as far
as Lewis' office was concerned, but that all fees of whatever nature received from parties desiring copies of the
records must be covered into the Treasury, and the practice of receiving them as personal property be discontinued.
Upon receipt of this letter, Lewis addressed a second
letter of protest to the Commissioner. The Commissioner
replied, on May 31, 1907, that his order of April 15, 1907,
was considered to be in the interest of good administration and must be strictly observed.
Under this order of April 15, 1907, there was deposited
in the United States subtreasury at New Orleans, by
individuals in payment for copies furnished by the surveyor general's office from May 1, 1907, to June 30, 1909,
inclusive, the sum of $635.65.
On October 19, 1907, the Commissioner issued to Lewis

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

a further circular order relative to these fees, modifying
the circular order of April 15, 1907, and requiring him
thereafter, when application should be made to him by
individuals for exemplified copies of plats or other records
in his office, to first furnish the applicant with a memorandum of the exact cost thereof, to require the applicant
to pay such cost to him, as surveyor general, and upon
receipt of the amount to prepare the copies desired, and
to deposit the aggregate amount thus received each week
to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States on
account of "Receipts for furnishing copies of records,"
and to forward the duplicate certificates of deposit to the
office of said Commissioner in Washington.
Upon receipt of this circular order, Lewis wrote another
letter of protest to the Commissioner.
Under the circular order of October 19, 1907, Lewis deposited in the United States subtreasury at New Orleans,
to the credit of the Treasurer of the United States, between May 1, 1907, and June 30, 1909, inclusive, the sum
of $1,652.15, received by him as fees from individuals.
The sums deposited by individuals or by Lewis, from
May 1, 1907, to June 30, 1909, inclusive, aggregate the
sum of $2,287.80, no part of which has ever been received
by Lewis from the United States.
Mr. L. Russell Alden and Mr. Edward F. Colladay for
appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE DAY,

after making the foregoing statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
Section 2207 of the Revised Statutes provided for the
appointment of a surveyor general for the surveying dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

trict of Louisiana; § 2208 fixed his salary at the sum of
$2,000 a year; § 2217 fixed the term of office at four years
from the date of the commission unless the incumbent should
resign, die or be removed from office within that period.
The claimant insists that Lewis was entitled to the
salary of the office for the year ending June 10, 1910,
notwithstanding the facts found by the Court of Claims
as to the discontinuance of the office, as it was not until
that date that the State of Louisiana duly provided for
the reception and safe-keeping of the papers and records
of the office, which were delivered by the custodian to the
State on June 30, 1910.
Sections 2218, 2219, 2221 and 2222 of the Revised
Statutes provide as follows:
"2218. The Secretary of the Interior shall take all the
necessary measures for the completion of the surveys in
the several surveying-districts for which surveyors-general
have been, or may be, appointed, at the earliest periods
compatible with the purposes contemplated by law; and
whenever the surveys and records of any such district
are completed, the surveyor-general thereof shall be required to deliver over to the secretary of state of the respective States, including such surveys, or to such other
officer as may be authorized to receive them, all the fieldnotes, maps, records, and other papers appertaining to
land titles within the same; and the office of surveyorgeneral in every such district shall thereafter cease and
be discontinued."
"2219. In all cases where, as provided in the preceding
section, the field-notes, maps, records, and other papers
appertaining to land titles in any State are turned over
to the authorities of. such State, the same authority,
powers, and duties in relation to the survey, resurvey, or
subdivision of the lands therein, and all matters and things
connected therewith, as previously exercised by the surveyor-general, whose district included such State, shall

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be vested in, and devolved upon, the Commissioner of
General Land-Office.":
the"2221.
The field-notes', maps, records, and other papers
mentioned in section twenty-two hundred and nineteen,
shall in no case be turned over to the authorities of any
State, until such State has provided by law for the reception and safe-keeping of the same as public records, and
for the allowance of free access to the same by the authorities of the United States."
"2222. Every surveyor-general, register, and receiver,
except where the President sees cause otherwise to determine, is authorized to continue in the uninterrupted discharge of his regular official duties, after the day of expiration of his commission, and until a new commission is
issued to him for the same office, or until the day when
a successor enters upon the duties of such office; and the
existing official bond of any officer so acting shall be
deemed good and sufficient, and in force, until the date
of the approval of a new bond to be given by him, if
recommissioned, or otherwise, for the additional time he
may so continue officially to act, pursuant to the authority of this section."
It is the contention of the Government that the action
of the Secretary of the Interior with the approval of the

President had the effect to discontinue the office as of
July 1, 1909, and that in fact the office of surveyor general was discontinued after June 30, 1909. In the Sundry
Civil Appropriation Act of March 4, 1909, 35 Stat. 945,
987, it was provided:
"To enable- the Secretary of the Interior to complete
the unfinished drafting and field-note writing pertaining
to surveys in the States of Minnesota, North Dakota,
and Louisiana, caused by the discontinuance of the offices
of surveyors-general in those States, six thousand and five
hundred dollars."
And in the appropriation bill for that year Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

made no provision, such as had been customary in former
yeaxs, for salaries of these officials.
The Court of Claims held that this act was effectual to
abolish the office of surveyor general for Louisiana. We
deem that a correct conclusion. It is true that repeals by
implication are not favored. The repugnancy between
the later act upon the same subject and the former legislation must be such that the first act cannot stand and
be capable of execution consistently with the terms of the
later enactment. As we view it, such conflict does appear
in this instance.
It must be assumed that Congress was familiar with the
action of the executive department undertaking to terminate the office, and when Congress acted upon the
assumption that the office was abolished and provided for
the unfinished work pertaining to the surveys, "caused by
the discontinuance" of the office, such action was tantamount to a direct repeal of the act creating the office
and had the effect to abolish it.
As to the part of Lewis' claim which is for fees, it is
alleged in his petition, and found to be a fact by the Court
of Claims, that during the entire period of his service as
surveyor general he furnished copies of plats of surveys
and transcripts from the records of his office to various
individuals requiring them, receiving therefor compensation as authorized by § 5 of the Act of Congress of March 3,
1831, 4 Stat. 492, which is as follows:
"The surveyor general ....
shall be allowed an
annual salary of two thousand dollars . . . and that
the fees heretofore authorized by law for examining and
recording surveys be, and the same are hereby, abolished; . . . and for every copy of a plat of survey,
there shall be paid twenty-five cents, and for any transcript from the records of said office, there shall be paid
at the rate of twenty-five cents for every hundred words
by the individuals requiring the same."

LEWIS v. UNITED STATES.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It had been the custom of Lewis and his predecessors
in office to retain these fees as their personal property, but
by virtue of an order from the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the amounts realized from these fees
between May 1, 1907, and June 30, 1909, being $2,287.80,
were paid into the Treasury of the United States. It is
appellant's contention that this amount is now due and
owing Lewis' estate, under the terms of § 5 of the Act
of March 3, 1831, above quoted, interpreted in the light
of established custom.
Section 1765 of the Revised Statutes provides:
"No officer in any branch of the public service, or any
other person whose salary, pay, or emoluments are fixed
by law or regulations, shall receive any additional pay,
extra allowance, or compensation, in any form whatever,
for the disbursement of public money, or for any other
service or duty whatever, unless the same is authorized
by law, and the appropriation therefor explicitly states
that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance, or compensation." Claimant contends that this section shows
no intention to interfere with the enjoyment of any
emoluments already fixed by law, as the additional compensation, the receipt of which it prohibits, is compensation additional to "salary, pay, or emoluments .
fixed by law or regulations." To establish that these fees
were emoluments fixed by law, the claimant points to the
Act of April 21, 1806, 2 Stat. 391, by § 9 of which it is
provided: "The surveyor of the public lands, south of
Tennessee, be, and he is hereby directed to appoint a principal deputy for each of the two land districts of the
territory of Orleans . . . And each of the said
principal deputies shall receive an annual compensation
of five hundred dollars, and in addition thereto, the following fees, that is to say: for examining and recording the
surveys executed by any of the deputies, at the rate of
twenty-five cents for every mile of the boundary line of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

such survey; and for a certified copy of any plot of a survey
in the office, twenty-five cents."
This read in connection with the Act of March 3, 1831,
is the foundation of this claim. The Act of 1831 provides
that the surveyor general of the State of Louisiana shall
have the same authority, and perform the same duties,
as are vested in and required of the surveyor of the lands
of the United States, south of the State of Tennessee, or
of the principal deputy surveyors in the said State.
We are of opinion that § 1765 of the Revised Statutes,
above quoted, prevents the allowance of the claim for fees.
This section is general in its application, and fixes the
compensation of officers of the United States at the salary
established by law, unless the additional compensation
is authorized and explicitly :appropriated for. No such
law or appropriation is shown in this case. The Act of
March 3, 1831, made no disposition of the fees. After
May, 1907, the Department required them to be paid into
the Treasury. The Court of Claims correctly ruled that
§ 1765 controlled this part of the claim of appellant.
Judgment affirmed.
JUSTICE McREYNOLDS took no part in the consideration and decision of this case.
MR.

