OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

MINNEAPOLIS & ST. LOUIS RAILROAD COMPANY v. GOTSCHALL, ADMINISTRATRIX OF
GOTSCHALL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 251.

Argued April 9, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

Plaintiff's intestate, a brakeman, was thrown from a train carrying
interstate commerce, and killed, as a result of couplers coming open
while the train was in motion. Held, that, in view of the Safety
Appliance Act, negligence might be inferred from the mere opening
of the couplers.
A father who by the state law is entitled to the earnings of his son during
minority may recover damages for the latter's death upon a cause of
action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
130 Minnesota, 33, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William H. Bremner and Mr. Frederick M. Miner

for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. Lyle Pettijohn, with whom Mr. W. R. Duxbury was
on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.

Basing her cause of action upon the Federal Employers'
Liability Act, the defendant in error as administratrix of
the estate of Merlin E. Gotschall, deceased, sued to recover
from the Railroad Company, plaintiff in error, damages
resulting from his death alleged to have been occasioned
by the negligence of the company while he was in its
employ engaged in interstate commerce. On this writ of

MINN. & ST. LOUIS R. R. CO. v. GOTSCHALL.
244 U. S.

67

Opinion of the Court.

error a reversal is sought of the action of the court below
in affirming a judgment entered by the trial court on the
verdict of a jury in favor of the plaintiff.
The evidence tended to show the following facts:
Gotschall, a minor twenty years old, at the time in question was head brakeman on an extra freight train running
from Albert Lea, Minnesota, to Minneapolis and transporting interstate commerce merchandise. As the train
left Jordan, an intermediate station, Gotschall boarded
a car toward the rear end and was proceeding along the
tops of the cars toward the locomotive when the train
separated because of the opening of a coupler on one of
the cars, resulting in an automatic setting of the emergency brakes and a sudden jerk which threw Gotschall
off the train and under the wheels.
The jury, under an instruction of the court, was permitted to infer negligence on the part of the company
from the fact that the coupler failed to perform its function, there being no other proof of negligence. It is insisted this was error, since as there was no other evidence
of negligence on the part of the company the instruction
of the court was erroneous as from whatever point of
view looked at it was but an application of the principle
designated as res ipsa loquitur, a doctrine the unsoundness
of which, it is said, plainly results from the decisions in
Pattonv. Texas & PacificRy. Co., 179 U. S. 658 and Looney
v. Metropolitan R. R. Co., 200 U. S. 480. We think the
contention is without merit because, conceding in the
fullest measure the correctness of the ruling announced
in the cases relied upon to the effect that negligence may
not be inferred from the mere happening of an accident
except under the most exceptional circumstances, we are
of opinion such principle is here not controlling in view of
the positive duty imposed by the statute upon the railroad
to furnish safe appliances for the coupling of cars. St.
Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210

OCTOBER TERM, ,1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

U. S. 281, 294, 295; Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Ry. Co.
v. United States, 220 V. S. 559, 575; Delk v. St. Louis &
San Francisco R. R. Co., 220 U. S. 580, 586; Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Rigsby, 241 U. S. 33, 43.
Again it is insisted that error was committed in submitting the case to the jury because there was no evidence of
pecuniary loss resulting to Gotschall's father, on whose
behalf the suit was brought. But this disregards the undisputed fact that the deceased was a minor and,as under
the Minnesota law the father was entitled to the earnings
of his soft during minority, the question is one not of right
to recover, but only of the amount of damages which it
was proper to award.

Affirmed.

OHIO RIVER CONTRACT COMPANY v. GORDON,
JUDGE OF THE JEFFERSON CIRCUIT COURT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE

OF KENTUCKY.
No. 594.

Argued April 9, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

The fact that personal injuries sued for occurred while plaintiff was
employed on work which defendant was performing under contract
with the United States does not prevent a state court from entertaining the action.
An Indiana corporation, in constructing a canal for the United States
on a federal reservation in Kentucky, carried the excavated materials
over a railroad it had built for the purpose, to land belonging to
another and dumped them there with such owner's consent. The
dump and, in part, the railroad were within Kentucky and outside
the reservation. Held, that without regard to whether the jurisdiction over the reservation was exclusively federal, the transport and
deposit of the materials beyond its limits was such a doing of business in Kentucky as subjected the corporation to the jurisdiction
of the courts of that State in a transitory action.

