LOUISIANA v. JACK.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA EX REL. THE
STATE OF LOUISIANA v. HON. GEORGE WHITFIELD JACK, JUDGE OF UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT, WESTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 264.

Argued May 3, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

The decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in State v. Tensas
Delta Land Co., 126 Louisiana, 59, that the State had no interest or
authority entitling it to intervene in a suit brought by the Tensas
.Basin Levee Board for the recovery of lands which the Board had
conveyed after receiving title from the State, is conclusive on this
court, in the absence of any later state decision or statute modifying
its effect.
The Act of Louisiana of August 19, 1910, making it the duty of the
Attorney General, upon the request of the Governor, to represent
the State, or any political agency or subdivision thereof, in suits
involving land belonging to the State or any such agency or subdivision, etc., did not operate to divest the Levee Board of its authority over suits to recoverland and confer it, through the Governor,
upon the Attorney General; as concerns the Board, its effect was
merely to authorize the Attorney General, at request of the Governor,
to represent the Board in the litigation.
This construction of the Act of August 19, 1910, agrees with the practical, contemporary construction placed upon it by two Attorneys
General of the State, which the court regards as persuasive authority
as to its true meaning.
Generally speaking, the authority of a court to make new parties to a
suit, especially after decree, rests in its sound discretion, which,
except for abuse, can not be reviewed upon appeal or error, or indirectly, by mandamus.
With exceptions not here applicable, no person may review a judgment
. by appeal or writ of error who is not a party or privy to the record.
Article 571 of the Code of Practice of Louisiana, pr6viding: "The right
of appeal is given not only to those who ar'- parties to a cause in

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

which a judgment has been rendered against them, but also to third
persons not parties to said suit when such third persons allege that
they have been aggrieved by the judgment," can have no application to an equity suit in the federal courts.
217 Fed. Rep. 757, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Harry Gamble, Assistant Attorney General of the
State of Louisiana, with whom Mr. A. V. Coco, Attorney
General of the State of Louisiana, was on the briefs, for
petitioner.
Mr. Henry Bernstein and Mr. Willard F. Keeney for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE CLARKE delivered the opinion of the court.
By act of its General Assembly in 1886 amended in

1888 the State of Louisiana created the Tensas Basin Levee
District for the purpose of providing a system of levees
and other works to aid in protecting the lands within its
boundaries from floods and overflow. The act provided
for the appointment of a Levee Board of Commissioners
to have charge of the affairs of the District and constituted
this Board a corporation, with power to sue and be sued,
and to sell, mortgage, pledge and otherwise dispose of
lands which the State donated and caused to be conveyed
to the Board.
In 1898 the Levee Board sold to the Tensas Delta Land
Company, Limited, a large acreage of the land thus acquired and executed conveyances for it.
Eleven years later, in 1909, suit was brought by the
Attorney General of Louisiana in the name of the State,
claiming that the sale of 1898 was fraudulent and void
and praying that it should be set aside and that the State
should be decreed to be the owner of the property.

LOUISIANA v. JACK.

244 U. S

Opinion of the Court.

Such proceedings were had in the case that the Supreme
Court of Louisiana held (State v. Tensas Delta Land Co.,
126 Louisiana, 59) that the only proper party plaintiff
in such a suit was the Levee Board and that the State being
without authority to maintain it the case must be dismissed.
After the dismissal of the suit of the State the Levee
Board brought suit against the Tensas Basin Land Company, Limited, in a District Court of Louisiana upon the
same cause of action stated in the prior petition which
case was removed to the United States District Court for
the appropriate district. The petition was there given
the form of a bill in equity, and as amended, a demurrer
to it by the defendant was sustained. On appeal this
decision was reversed and the case was remanded for further proceedings, but before the time allowed for answer
had expired the defendant appeared and informed the
District Court that $100,000 had been paid in settlement
of the case agreed upon between the parties and moved
the court to dismiss the suit. This motion was filed on
July 22, 1913, and a rule was forthwith issued to the plaintiff to show cause on the first day of the next term of the
court (October 20th) 'why the motion should not be
granted. The return of service of this rule shows personal
service on the Attorney General as Solicitor for the Levee
Board and acknowledgment of service by the Board itself.
On August 5 the Board, appearing by its President,
answered the rule to show cause, averring that it had
"apprised its attorney of record" (the Attorney General
of the State) "of the said settlement" and, admitting the
allegations of the motion, prayed that the suit be forthwith dismissed at its cost.
The Attorney General for the State, not satisfied with
the settlement, on October 6th filed a motion, which he
signed "R. G. Pleasant, Attorney General, State of Louisiana and Attorney of Record for Complainant." In this

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

quite anomalous paper he averred somewhat rhetorically
that the settlement made by the Levee Board for which
he was attorney, was a "condoning and compromising"
of a fraud to which the court should not assent, that he
was acting in the case under authority of an act of the
General Assembly of the State and by order of the Governor, to whom alone he was responsible, and "that the
complainant could not compromise this suit, nor dismiss
it without the Governor's consent." He prayed that the
motion to dismiss be denied, the agreement of settlement
disregarded, and that the case be set down for early trial.
The motion to dismiss came on for hearing on October
20th but the court deferred consideration of it until the
next day and caused a telegram to be sent to the Attorney
General in order that he might have full opportunity to
be present and be heard, but he did not appear in person
or by representative, and thereupon the court heard the
evidence and "ordered, adjudged and decreed that the
said compromise . . . be and the same is recognized by this court as having the effect of the thing adjudged 'and as settling all the issues involved in this case,"
and dismissed the suit.
It cannot escape notice that there is no allegation contained in any paper filed by the Attorney General that
the Levee Board in compromising the controversy and
suit did not act in perfect good faith, nor is there any
challenge of the character or competency of the members
of the Board.
After this entry of dismissal no further action was taken
by the Attorney General until on the 6th day of the followingApril when he presented to the District Court a "petition of the United States of America on the relation of the
State of Louisiana" praying that the State be permitted
to intervene and appeal from the judgment ratifying the
compromise and dismissing the suit.
The District Court denied this petition for leave to

LOUISIANA v. JACK.

244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

intervene and appeal, and thereupon the Attorney General
filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
a "petition for writs of mandamus and certiorari," in
which he prayed that court to order that the State of
Louisiana be allowed to intervene in the District Court and
to appeal the case and that it order that a transcript of
all records be sent up to it for review.
The Circuit Court of Appeals denied this petition
assigning two reasons for its action, viz:
(1) Because the Supreme Court of Louisiana, on full
consideration, had decided that the State was without
real or beneficial interest in the lands in controversy,
which decision must be controlling in that court; and
(2) Because the State was not a party to the record in
the District Court "and one who is not a party to a record
and judgment is not entitled to an appeal therefrom."
This decision is now here for review on certiorari.
This plain statement of the history of this litigation so
argues against the claims of the petitioner as to make
them in appearance, at least, unsubstantial to the point
of being, frivolous.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana, considering the statutes of its own State, held, in the case in which the State
sought to set aside for fraud the same sale of the same
lands involved in this litigation, 126 Louisiana, 59, that
the "Legislature vested the absolute title to the lands in
controversy in the Board of Commissioners of the Tensas
Levee District, with full power to sell the same on such
terms as the Board might deem proper. The Legislature
also vested in said board full power to sue and be sued, and
to stand in judgment, in all matters relating to their gestion and trust." "Most assuredly," also says the court,
"the Legislature has divested the State absolutely of all
beneficial interest in said lands, and transferred the same
to the said Board of Levee Commissioners," and as it
"has vested the power to sue and be sued in the Board of

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Commissioners of the Tensas Levee District, and has
vested no such co-ordinate power in the Governor and
Attorney General, we are of the opinion that the institution of this suit in the name of the State is unauthorized."
-This decision determining the effect of the state statutes, where no claim of federal right was involved, is
accepted as conclusive by this court and unless it has been
modified by statute (there has been no modifying decision)
the application of the State to intervene and to appeal was
properly denied.
To the seemingly insurmountable barrier to the claims
of the petitioner presented by this Supreme Court decision
we must add that the State was not at any time a party
to this record and that its first application for leave to
intervene and to appeal was long after the term at which
the decree of dismissal was rendered and within a few
days of the expiration of the time within which even "a
real party in interest" would have been allowed an appeal.
With exceptions not even remotely applicable to a
case such as we have here it has long been the law as
settled by this court that "no person can bring a writ of
error [an appeal is not different] to reverse a judgment who
is not a party or privy to the record," Bayard v. Lombard,
9 How. 530, 551, and in Ex parte Tobacco Board of Trade,
222 U. S.578, it was announced, in a per curiam opinion,
as a subject no longer open to discussion, thaf "one who
is not a party to a record and judgment is not entitled to
appeal therefrom," and that a refusal after decree to
permit new parties to a record cannot be reviewed by this
court directly on appeal, or indirectly, by writ of mandamus, under circumstances such as were there and are
here presented.
Two statutes of Louisiana are relied upon by counsel
for petitioner to avoid the obvious and seemingly conclusive result of these decisions by this court and by the
Supreme Court of Louisiana.

LOUISIANA v. JACK.

244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The first of these statutes is Article 571 of the Code of
Practice of Louisiana, which reads: "The right of appeal
is given, not only to those who were parties to the cause
in which a judgment has been rendered against them, but
also to third persons not parties to said suit, when such
third persons allege that they have been aggrieved by the
judgment."
It is urged in argument that in suits in the United States
Courts which originate in Louisiana this statute permits
an appeal by strangers to the record "who may allege
that they have been aggrieved by the judgment," and the
decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana in 126 Louisiana, 59, supra, holding that the State cannot "be
aggrieved" by this judgment because it is without beneficial interest in the lands which are the subject-matter of
this litigation and is without authority to institute a suit
for their recovery, is disposed of by saying that it is the
practice in Louisiana courts to allow appeals by strangers
to the record upon mere allegation of interest, leaving the
validity of such allegation to be examined by the appellate
court.
This claim cannot be seriously entertained in the face
of the long time perfectly settled law that equity suits
in federal courts and the appellate procedure in them are
regulated exclusively by federal statutes and decisions
unaffected by statutes of the States. Textbook citations
will suffice: Federal Equity Practice, Street, §§ 97 and 98;
A Federal Equity Suit, Simkins, Chapter 1.
The other statute relied upon by the petitioner was
enacted by the General Assembly of Louisiana on August 19, 1910, after the decision by the Supreme Court
referred to, and reads:
"Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Louisiana, That it is hereby made the duty of the Attorney
General of the State, upon the request of the Governor to
represent the State or any political agency or subdivision

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

thereof, in any suit in any court involving title to any
land or real property belonging to the State of Louisiana
or any of its political agencies or subdivisions, whether
the title to said land or real property is vested in or appears
in the name of the State or in the name of any of its political agencies or subdivisions."
The claim made by the Attorney General for the State
now is that this act "withdrew the authority theretofore
granted to the Levee Board by section 3 of the Act of 1886
to sue in such cases as this, with all of the rights pertinent
to the right to sue, and delegated it, through the Governor,
to the Attorney General."
This is a large repealing effect by implication to be
asserted for a statute so worded and apparently so simple,
and that such meaning was niot given to it by the presenb
Attorney General's predecessor in office, who was charged
with the execution of the statute at the time this litigation
was commenced and almost immediately after its enactment, is clear from these facts appearing of record:
The suit by the Levee Board as petitioner was commenced after this Act of August 19, 1910, was passed and
yet the petition, signed by the Attorney General as one
of the Solicitors of the Board, alleges that it was commenced by virtue of a resolution adopted by the Board on
the fourteenth day of the preceding July (thus reciting
an authority adopted pursuant to power which it is now
claimed had been withdrawn from the Board). The petition also recites that the Attorney General (predecessor of
the present incumbent) appears in the suit pursuant to the
authority and direction of the Governor "to represent
said Board of Levee Commissioners . . . in the
prosecution of this suit;" that th~e board is a corporation
with power to sue and be sued, to take title to and to sell
lands under the same laws which had been construed by the
Louisiana Supreme Court (126 Louisiana, 59) and it prays
for a decree "recognizing your petitioner [the Levee Board]

LOUISIANA v. JACK.
244 'U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be the owner of all of said lands so fraudulently and illegally conveyed." The Attorney General, with another,
signs the petition as Attorney "of the Board of Levee

Commissioners of the Tensas Basin Levee -District,"
and when the case was removed to the United States
District Court the petition was recast into a bill in equity
in which, after repeating the allegations and prayer of the
original bill, the then Attorney General adds that the
Levee Board has "in compliance with the law as laid
down by the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana
in the opinion and judgment rendered by it as aforesaid"
(126 Louisiana, 59) "brought this suit as it understands
it is its duty to do."
Even in his protest to the District Court against the
settlement, the Attorney General appeared "as Attorney
of recotd for the complainant," the Levee Board, and it
was long after term and not until six months, lacking
sixteen days, after the decree of the District Court approving the settlement had been entered, that he left off
the character of solicitor for the Board and, appearing
for the State, petitioned for leave for it to intervene and
appeal from the decision affirming the settlement approved by his former client. Even in this petition no
claim is made that the Board had been deprived of its
powers by the Act of August 19, 1910, or that it had acted
otherwise than in the utmost good faith in making the
compromise.
The first time that this astonishing assertion of a repeal
by implication by the Act of August 19, 1910, appears in
the record, so far as we can discover, is in the brief filed
by a third Attorney General on April 30, 1917.
This summary of the proceedings in the case out of
which the petition we are considering grew shows that the
predecessor of the present Attorney General, who was in
office when theAct of 1910 was passed, and also the Attorney General who succeeded him, both contended, until

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

nearly six months after the entry of the settlement decree
that the Supreme Court had settled as the law of the case
that the State was without title or beneficial interest
which would enable it to maintain a suit to set aside the
sale alleged to be fraudulent; that the proper plaintiff in
such a case was the Levee Board to which the State had
committed the title, custody and power of disposition of
the lands in controversy and also, apparently, that the
purpose of the Act of August, 1910, was simply to authorize
the Attorney General, on the request of the Governor, to
take charge (in this case with another solicitor) of a suit
to be instituted by the Levee Board, and thereby to place
his professional learning and the weight of his official
character at the service of this plaintiff, an "agency or
subdivision" of the State. Both Attorneys General
assumed that the powers of the State and of the Levee
Board over the subject-matter continued as the Supreme
Court had defined them to be before the Act of August,
1910, was passed and, as we have seen, it was not until
long after the entry of the settlement decree that the contention first appeared that the act took away from the
Levee Board and gave to the State the authority to conduct the required litigation.
This contemporary construction of the act by the two
law officers of the State charged with acting under it is
persuasive authority as to its true meaning, and, upon
full consideration, we think it is the correct interpretation
of it.
To this we add that, except in a class of cases to which
this case does not belong, the authority of a court to make
new parties to a suit, especially after judgment or decree,
rests in its sound discretion, which, except for abuse, cannot be reviewed upon an appeal or writ of error. No claim
is made of abuse of discretion by the District Court and
plainly, if made, it would be groundless, since the judge
refusing to permit the State to intervene had before him at

WALL v. PARROT SILVER & COPPER CO.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

the time of his refusal the decision of its own Supreme
Court that the State was without title, legal or beneficial,
qualifying it to litigate the questions involved.
In the original bill the not uncommon allegation of
fraud is made, which is denied in the answer. It was entirely proper for the parties to such a litigation, in good
faith "balancing the hope of gaining with the danger of
losing" to compromise the case and make an end of the
controversy and, as we have said, it is not claimed anywhere in the record that the members of the Levee Board,
which settled the suit, were not men of character and probity or that they did not act in perfect good faith in concluding the settlement. To these men the state law committed the care of the interests of the inhabitants of the
district and within the bounds of their authority honestly
exercised their action was conclusive upon the State.
It results that the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
must be
Affirmed.

WALL ET AL. v. PARROT SILVER & COPPER COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MONTANA.
No. 271.

Argued May 4, 7, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

The court agrees with the District Court in concluding that appellants'
allegations of fraud were not sustained.
Generally speaking, when fraud is alleged and denied, the party making
the charge will be confined to that issue.
When a constitutional question, asserted as the basis for the jurisdiction of this court on direct appeal from the District Court, is pleaded

