OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabu.

244 U. S.

cumstances under which the hauls from mines at Myrick
were made and those surrounding the longer shipments
for less charges over other portions of the road.
Arguments identical in principle with those now presented to show invalidity of the inhibition under consideration, because of conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment
and interference with interstate commerce, were consfdered and rejected in Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.
v. Kentucky, 183 U. S. 503, approved in Intermountain
Rate Cases, 234 U. S. 476, 489. And we think it must be
accepted as settled that unless some controlling circumstance of a character not here disclosed is established, or a
special protecting contract exists, there is nothing in the
provisions of the Federal Constitution or laws presently
relied on which necessarily restricts the power of a State
by general rule to prohibit railway companies from receiving higher charges for shorter hauls than for longer
ones when both are wholly within its borders. Such a
prohibition is not necessarily an arbitrary, unreasonable
or grossly oppressive measure for preventing discriminations and insuring equal and just treatment to all shippers.
We find no error in the judgment below, and it is
Affirmed.

MISSOURI, PACIFIC

RAILWAY

COMPANY

v.

TABER, GUARDIAN OF SMALL ET AL.
ERROR TO THiE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 760. Submitted April 10, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
The claim that the Federal Employers' Liability Act should have
governed the action will not afford jurisdiction under Judicial Code,
ยง 237, where the action was originally based upon a state statute
and the federal act was not set up or relied upon in the answer or

MISSOURI PACIFIC RY. CO. v. TABER.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise called to the trial court's attention and where the state
supreme court, following the state statutes and established practice,
declined to pass upon the claim because not presented to the trial
court.
Writ of error to review 186 S. W. Rep. 688, dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edward J. White, Mr. Thomas Hackney and Mr.
Martin Lyons for plaintiff in error.
Mr. John T. Wayland, Mr. R. J. Ingraham, Mr. L. E.
Durham and Mr. Hale Houts for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

court.
Charles H. Small was killed at Kansas City while employed by plaintiff in error as a switchman. Relying upon
a state statute, the guardian of his minor children sued
for damages in the Jackson County Circuit Court and
recovered a judgment which the Supreme Court of Missouri affirmed, May 15, 1916. We are asked to reverse
that action because the Federal Employers' Liability Act
was not applied, but rights and liabilities were determined according to state laws.
Unless some right, privilege, or immunity under the
federal act was duly, and especially claimed we have no
jurisdiction. Judicial Code, ยง 237. Speaking for the
court in Erie R. R. Co. v. Purdy, 185 U. S. 148, 154, Mr.
Justice Harlan announced the applicable rule. "Now,
where a party-drawing in question in this court a state
enactment as invalid under the Constitution of the United
States, or asserting that the final judgment of the highest
court of a State denied to him a right or immunity under
the Constitution of the United States-did not raise such
question or especially set up or claim.such right or immu-

OCTO3ER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

nity in the trial court, this court cannot review such final
judgment and hold that the state enactment was unconstitutional or that the right or immunity so claimed had
been denied by the highest court of the State, if that court
did nothing. more than decline to pass upon the Federal
question because not raised in the trial court as required
by the state practice. Spies v. Illinois, 123 U. S. 131, 181;
Miller v. Texas, 153 U. S. 535, 538; Morrison v. Watson,
154 U. S. 111, 115."
The original action was based upon a state statute; the
answer did not set up or rely upon the federal act; the
trial court's attention was not called thereto; and although
urged to hold liability depended upon it, the Supreme
Court declined to pass upon that point because not presented to the trial court. This ruling seems in entire accord with both state statutes and established practice.
Rev. Stats. Mo. 1909, ยง 2081; St. Louis v. Flanagan, 129
Missouri, 178; Freeland v. Williamson, 220 Missouri, 217.
The writ must be dismissed.
Dismissed.

VALLEY STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. WATTAWA.
VALLEY STEAMSHIP COMPANY v. MRAZ.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS, EIGHTH DISTRICT, OF THE
STATE OF OHIO.

Nos. 469, 470. Argued January 10, 11, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.
It being settled that in the absence of congressional legislation the commerce clause does not forbid a State to legislate concerning the relative rights and duties of employers and employees within her borders
although engaged in interstate commerce, a contention to the con-

