OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

the canal reservation was within the exclusive legislative
jurisdiction of Congress, it is clear from the facts we have
stated that the business carried on by the corporation
was not confined fo the land owned by the United States,
since it is admitted that in order to dispose of the material
excavated in the construction of the canal a line of railway
was built' which extended beyond the reservation and
connected with the tracks of the Kentucky and Indiana
Terminal Railway, upon whose property all of the earth
and rocks were dumped. This clearly constituted the
doing of business within the State and subjected the corporation to the jurisdiction of 'the Kentucky courts.
-Assuming also for argument's sake only that the original
summons was void because served on the agent designated
by the company while fe was on the reservation, the subsequent service of. the alias summons on the agent at his
home in Louisville was valid since, -as we have seen, the
company was doing business in the State. And finally,
an action for personal injuries being in its nature transltory and susceptible of being brought in any jurisdiction in
which the defendant may be impleaded, there is no foundation for the contention that the court had no jurisdiction over the subject-matter of the suit.
Affirmed.

CHESBROUGH v. WOODWORTH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No . 179.

Argued April 19, 20, 1917.-Decided May 21, 1917.

An action under Rev. Stats., § 5239, against a director of a national
bank for damages sustained by an individual in consequence of

violations of the National Bank Act, necessarily involves a federal
question.

CHESBROUGH v. WOODWORTH.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The court finds no reversible error in the views of the evidence or legal
conclusions reached by the Circuit Court of Appeals in sustaining a
judgment recovered under Rev. Stats., § 5239.
221 Fed. Rep. 912, affirmed.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

Mr. Thomas A. E. Weadock for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward S. Clark, with whom Mr. John C. Weadock
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Action in ten counts charging plaintiff in error and one
Joseph W. McGraw with violating the National Bank
Act and alleging damages resulting to defendant in error
therefrom.
I In description of the parties we shall designate them
respectively as plaintiff and defendants.
In all the counts defendant Chesbrough and McGraw
are alleged to have been at certain dates directors of the
Old Second National Bank, a national banking corporation organized and doing business under the National
Bank Act of 1864 and the amendments thereto and having
its office in the City of Bay City, Michigan.
: The following violations of the act are charged: (1)
Signing, attesting and permitting and assenting to the
publication of a report of the conditions of the bank required to be made by § 5211 of such act, which report was
false. (2, 3, 4, 5) The Comptroller of the Currency having
made a requisition upon the bank for a report of the resources and liabilities of the bank upon a day specified
as required by the act, the defendants permitted and
assented to a violation of the act by signing, attesting and
permitting and assenting to the publication of a false

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

report of the resources and liabilities of the bank and its
condition at the close of business of such day. (6, 7, 8)
Violation of the act in that defendants and each of them
permitted and assented to the declaration of the semiannual dividend, being payable December 1, 1902, knowing thAt it would necessarily be paid out of the capital
stock of the bank and not out of net profits and knowing
that losses had theretofore been sustained equal to or
exceeding the undivided profits then on hand, and that
the sums so declared as dividends exceeded the profits
then on hand, after deducting therefrom losses and bad
debts. (9) Defendants knowingly violated and permitted
and assented to the violation of the act (§ 5200)'in that
they knowingly participated in, permitted and assented
to the creation of certain liabilities to the bank, and
knowingly permitted and assented to the continuance of
the liabilities and the carrying of the same anmong the
loans and discounts of the bank after defendants and each
of them had knowledge of the nature and character of the
liabilities and that they had been created and were being
carried in violation of the act. The liabilities are set out.
(10) Violations of the act (§§ 5199, 5200, 5204, 5211, 5239),
being portions of a general design and conspiracy on the
part of the defendants to deceive the public, including
plaintiff, for the purpose of giving the stock of the bank
a fictitious market value and enabling each of the defendants and his relatives and friends to dispose of certain
shares of the stock then and there held by them at a price
exceeding the value of the stock.
In each count damage is alleged to have been caused to
plaintiff, he having purchased stock upon the faith of the
action of defendants. The total amount of damage is
alleged to be $35,000.
Plaintiff in error Chesbrough (the case is here on his
writ of error, McGraw not having joined) filed a demurrer
to the declaration, which was overruled. He then filed

CHESBROUGH v. WOODWORTH.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

several pleas, one of which alleged that he was not guilty
of the wrongs and injuries complained of, and gave notice
that under the latter he would "insist [upon] and give in
evidence" certain matters of defense.
The case was tried to a jury. The 3d, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th
and part of the 10th counts were withdrawn from their
consideration. A verdict was returned for plaintiff in the
sum of $22,662.98, upon which judgment was entered. It
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals& 221 Fed. Rep. 912.
This case had once before been to the Circuit Court of
Appeals where its facts were reviewed and we may refer
to the report of the case for them. 195 Fed. Rep. 875.
It there appears that in October, 1902, the bank reported a capital of $200,000, a surplus of $75,000 and
undivided profits of $27,000. Its total loans and discounts
were about $100,000.
On October 3, 1902, the bank held as loans (so considered by the court and the Comptroller of the Currency)
the paper of the Maltby Lumber Company to the amount
of $402,000, which had accumulated under the personal
direction of the then president and practical manager of
the bank. The Comptroller required that the loan be
reduced to the permitted 10%. The Comptroller's letter
was presented to the board. Inquiry during the next few
weeks developed the general character of the Maltby paper
and that most of it was not.drawn against any real debt
and in fact represented no liability, except Mrs. Maltby's.
Its net worth shown by a statement of Maltby, who was
called before the board, was about $188,000, but there were
many suspiciolus circumstances about the inventory, and
it did not appear how much of this primary liability to the
bank was included among the debts. There was subsequently liquidation of the Maltby Company's affairs, and
as it proceeded the bank charged off successive amounts
of the Maltby paper. In this way the total loss charged
off prior to the trial of the cause (first trial) was $223,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

A comparatively small amount remained uncollected
and not charged off. A generally similar situation existed
as to another line of paper, of one Brotherton, upon which
$47,000 had been written off as worthless before April,
1909. The shares of stock were $100 par value, and the
writing off of these two items caused, a loss in book value
of $135 per share.
The defendants had been two of the directors for many
years, during which time reports to the Comptroller were
frequently made and published as required by the statute
and as called for by him, and continuously until 1904 the
entire Maltby line was carried at its face in the "loans
and discounts" and was reported as part of the bank's
assets. Plaintiff, at various dates from March to December, 1903, bought the bank stock at its supposed market
value, averaging about $151 per share, and aggregating
$15,000 par and $23,400 purchase price.
The case went to trial to a jury. Certain counts were
withdrawn, and upon those submitted a verdict was
returned and judgment entered upon it for t1he amounts
plaintiff had paid for his stock, less its then bYok value,
after deducting its pro rata share of the actual loss written
off on account of the Maltby and Brotherton paper, with
interest,-an average total of $167 per share.
The following were the rulings of the court below:
(1) The general demurrer was rightly overruled. The
making and publishing of the reports are not merely for
the information of the Comptroller but are to guide the
public, and he who buys stock in a bank in reliance upon
the reports has a right of action under § 5239, Rev. Stats.,
against any officer or director who, knowing its falsity,
authorizes such report. "The one suffering such damages
is within the statutory description 'any other person.'
The conclusion was deduced from Yates v. Jones National
Bank, 206 U. S. 158, and Yates v. Utica Bank, 206 U. S.
1.81, and other cases in the state and federal courts.

CHESBROUGH v. WOODWORTH.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

(2) The damages in such a case are personal to the
plaintiff. He, sues in his own right, not for the association.
(3) Such action involves no direct showing of negligence;
the sole primary issue .is whether defendants caused or
permitted to be made a statement of the bank's condition
upon which statement plaintiff relied to his injury, and
which statement defendants knew was materially false.
And in the trial of this issue the detailed history of the
entire transaction is admissible as tending to show whether
the loans were in fact bad and whether defendants knew
that fact. This scienter is the material condition and
plaintiff can select one of the directors as sole defendant
or join others with him.
(4) Considering the evidence, the court concluded that
it justified a finding of liability against the defendants,
but not to the extent of the judgment. The court was of
opinion that the basis of loss to the bank, that is, the
amount which should have been charged off, was taken in
the verdict and judgment at the sum of $223,000 and
should not have been greater than $135,000, excluding
entirely, as not sustained by the evidence, the Brotherton
debts. The court, therefore, reversed the judgment and
remanded the case for a new trial.
Plaintiff moved to modify the opinion and judgment
in such manner as to permit him to remit such part of it
as the court thought was not supported by the evidence
and that, as modified, the judgment be affirmed. The
motion was denied.
The second trial resulted again, as we have said, in a
verdict and judgment for plaintiff. In reaching them a
basis beyond $135,000 was taken and the Circuit Court of
Appeals held this was error but gave to plaintiff permission
to file within thirty days from the filing of the opinion in
the trial court a written election-to reduce the judgment
by the sum in which it exceeded the $135,000 basis.
This was done, and judgment entered accordingly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

The case on the facts involves two simple propositions
-the scienter of defendant when he attested the report
to the Comptroller and the circumstances under which
two dividends were declared. Upon these prppositions
twice have juries held against defendant and twice has
the Circuit Court of Appeals held that there was isufficient
evidence to sustain their verdicts, modifying only as to
certain items of damages. In consideration of our reviewing power and without reciting the testimony, it is
enough to say that the findings on these propositions have
substantial evidence to support them.
But it is urged that the plaintiff brought this action
under § 5239, Rev. Stats., in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, in
which all of the parties resided, and that not that court
but the state court had jurisdiction.
The cited section provides for a forfeiture of the franchise
of a national bank if its directors knowingly violate or
knowingly permit the violation of any of the provisions
of the National Bank Act and further provides that in case
of such violation "every director who participated in or
assented to the same shall be held liable in his personal
and individual capacity for all damages which the association, its shareholders, or any other person, shall have
sustained in consequence of such violation."
This section was considered in Yates v. Jones National
Bank, 206 U. S. 158, 179, and it was held that the rule
expressed by it is exclusive and precludes a common-law
liability for fraud and deceit. To the same effect are
Thomas v. Taylor, 224 U. S. 73, and Jones National Bank
v. Yates, 240 U. S. 541. Necessarily a federal question
is involved and there was jurisdiction in the courts below.
§ 5198, Rev. Stats.; § 4 of the Actof August 13, 1888, 25
Stat. 436. Herrmann v. Edwards, 238 U. S. 107, is not
opposed to this view. It was there held only that the
federal cause of action should be, in the absence of diverse

W0ODWORTH v. CHESBROUGH.
244 U. S.

Syllabus.

citizenship, stated in the bill to give the federal court
jurisdiction, a condition that is complied with by the declaration in the present case.
Defendant attempts to distinguish the present case
from the cases cited above and, in 77 assignments of error
concentrated into 18 points, urges the contentions we have
noted and contentions based on the rulings of the trial
court in the admission and rejection of evidence and
charges to the jury and the rulings of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, and attempts to support them by an elaborate
and minute argument. Indeed, the whole case is-reviewed
and all of the deductions made by the lower tribunals from
the evidence combated and the-contentions reviewed
which were disposed of by the 4ircuit Court of Appeals, in whose decision we concur. To answer in detail
would extend this opinion to repellent length. It is
ehough to say of them that they show no reversible
error.
Judgment affirmed.

WOODWORTH v. CHESBROUGH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SIXTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 180.

Argued April 19, 20, 1917.:--Decided May 21, 1917.

Finding a verdict and judgment excessive, the Court of Appeals gave
the party who had recovered them his option to submit to a reversal
or obtain an affirmance by remitting part of the judgment. The
party having acted on the latter alternative, Held, that his cross
writ of error complaining of the reduction must be dismissed.
Cro6 writ of error to review 221 Fed. Rep. 912, dismissed.

