OCTOBER TERM, 1916.

Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

Shreveport & Pacific R. R. Co., 198 U. S. 416, 422. They
cannot claim the benefit of statutes and afterwards successfully assert their invalidity. There is no sanctity in
such a claim of constitutional right as prevents its being
waived as any other claim of right may be.
The decision of the District Court is
Affirmed.

EX PARTE PARK SQUARE AUTOMOBILE STATION, PETITIONER.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 31, Original.

Submitted May 21, 1917.-Rule discharged June 11,
1917.

Mandamus will not lie to control the District Court upon a jurisdictional question when other modes of reviewing its decision (writ of
error or certiorari) are provided by statute.
This rule obtains even though the decision complained of be manifestly
incorrect and though a direct review by mandamus might avert
great inconvenience and expense. Ex parte Harding,219 U. S. 363,
explained and followed.
So held where the object of the application was to require the District
Court for the Northern District of New York to remand a case removed from a court of the State of New Hampshire.
Rule discharged.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Edward C. Stone for petitioner.
Mr. Robert G. Dodge for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Upon the ground that the American Locomotive Company, a corporation created under the laws of New York,

EX PARTE PARK SQ. AUTOMOBILE STATION.
244 U. S.

413

Opinion of the Court.

was carrying on business in the State of New Hampshire
and amenable to the jurisdiction of the courts of that
State, the petitioner, the Park Square Automobile Station,
a Maine corporation, commenced its suit for breach of
contract against the American Locomotive Company in
a New Hampshire state court. In such court after service
upon it the Locomotive Company prayed a removal of the
cause not to the District Court of the United States for
the District of New Hampshire, but to the District Court
of the United States for the Southern District of New
York, and its prayer to this effect was denied by the state
court. Some time thereafter the prayer for removal was
renewed, modified however by asking that the removal
be ordered to the District Court of the United States for
the Northern District of New York on the ground that
the corporation was an inhabitant of that district and had
its principal place of business there. This request being
also denied, the Locomotive Company, executing a bond
for removal, filed the record in the District Court of the
United States for the Northern District of New York.
The Automobile Company thereupon moved to remand,
not on the ground that the case was not a removable one,
but because it was solely entitled to be removed to the
proper district, that is, from the state court in New Hampshire to the United States District Court of that State.
This motion having been overruled (222 Fed. Rep. 979),
the case was brought directly-here upon the theory that
the alleged error resulting from the refusal to remand was
susceptible of being reviewed although no final judgment
had been entered in the cause. At this term the writ of
error taken for the purpose stated was dismissed because
there was no final judgment, 243 U. S. 633, and thereupon on petition to that effect a rule to show cause
why a mandamus should not be granted directing the
District Court to reverse its ruling refusing to remand
the cause was allowed and on a return of the Dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

trict Court to that rule the subject is before us for consideration.
The contention of the petitioner is that manifest error
was committed in taking jurisdiction on a removal of the
cause from the state court of New Hampshire since the
proper court, upon the assumption that the case was removable, was the District Court of the United States for
the District of New Hampshire and that court alone.
At the threshold, however, we are met by the suggestion
that, conceding for the sake of the argument that the
lower court erred in refusing to remand and in taking
jurisdiction, as such error was susceptible of being reviewed by the regular methods provided by the statute,
that is, by certificate and direct review on the question
of jurisdiction alone after final judgment, or by review of
the Circuit Court of Appeals where allowed if the whole
case were taken to that court, or by the exercise by this
court of its power to issue a writ of certiorari in a proper
case, there is hence no power to substitute the writ of
mandamus as a means of reviewing for the express remedial processes created by the statute for such purpose.
It is not disputable that the proposition thus relied
upon is well founded and hence absolutely debars us from
reviewing by mandamus the action of the court below
complained of, whatever may be our conviction as to its
clear error, Ex parte Harding, 219 U. S. 363; Ex parteRoe,
234 U. S. 70, unless it be that by some exception the case
is taken out of the reach of the control of the cases referred
to. It is insisted that this case is such an exceptional
one, first, because of the clearly erroneous construction of
the statute upon which the court below based its assertion
of jurisdiction and the strange result which arose from
that construction, that is, the removal of a case pending
in the state court of New Hampshire to a district court
in the State of New York, and second, because of the grave
wrong which would result from forcing the petitioner to

EX PARTE PARK SQ. AUTOMOBILE STATION.
244 U.S.

415

Opinion of the Court.

try its case in the State of New York at great inconvenience and expense as a preliminary to securing a review of
the question of jurisdiction,-an expense and inconvenience which would be saved if by review now by means of a
writ of mandamus the removal statutes be given their
natural meaning and thus the wrong and confusion arising
from their misconstruction would be avoided. And, in
support of the exceptions thus asserted, reliance is placed
on expressions contained in the opinion in Ex parte Harding, 219 U. S. 363, 373, by which it is contended they are
sustained.
But conceding that the error which the proposition
attributes to the ruling below is manifest, the conclusion
drawn from the opinion in Ex parte Hardingis obviously
a migtaken one. Indisputably in that case the court was
called upon to consider in a two-fold aspect some contrariety of views manifested in decided cases, first, as to
the power to correct an unwarranted exercise of jurisdiction by way of proceedings in mandamus in a case where
no method of review of such question was otherwise provided, and second, the right to resort to mandamus in
disregard of and as a substitute for express and positive
statutory regulations pointing out the method by which
such review could be had. Bearing this in mind, it is
plain that the language relied upon in Ex parte Harding
related to the first class and established the doctrine that
even in*a case where no means of review were provided
by statute, the writ of mandamus could be used only in
exceptional cases calling for an exceptional remedy. But
this did not in the slightest degree qualify or limit the
comprehensive rule which was established as to the second
class to the effect that, where statutory methods of review
of questions of jurisdiction were provided for, they could
not be disregarded, and therefore that there was no power
to override the statutory provisions by resorting to the
writ of mandamus. And the whole subject will be made

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.,
Syllabus.

244 U. S.

very clear by a consideration of the opinion in Ex parte
Roe, 234 U. S. 70, which gave effect to and applied the
rule laid down in Ex parte Harding.
Indeed, when the situation dealt with in Ex parte
Harding is taken into view, it becomes apparent that the
confusion and conflict which had imperceptibly arisen
from obscuring the lines dividing the statutory methods
for review of questions of jurisdiction and the effort to
review them by the writ of mandamus which was corrected
by the decision in that case would be recreated by now
permitting a resort to the writ of mandamus in this case.
And this also makes clear that however grave may be
the inconvenience arising in this particular case from the
construction which the court gave to the statute and upon,
which it based its assertion of jurisdiction, greater inconvenience in many other cases would necessarily come
from now departing from the established rule and reviewing the action of the court by resort to a writ of mandamus
instead of leaving the correction of the error to the orderly
methods of review established by law.
Rule discharged.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BAY CITY v. FELLOWS, ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN, ON THE RELATION OF UNION
TRUST COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MICHIGAN.

No. 764.

Argued March 22, 23, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.

By the principles fully settled in McCulloch v. Maryland and Osborn
v. Bank, and other cases, the implied power of Congress to confer
a particular function upon a national bank is to be tested, not by
the nature of the function viewed by itself, but by its relations to all

