OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Counsel for Parties.

244 U. S.

CUYAHOGA RIVER POWER COMPANY v. NORTHERN REALTY COMPANY ET AL.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS, EIGHTH DISTRICT, OF THE
STATE OF OHIO.
No. 342.

Argued May 8, 9, 1917.-Decided June 4, 1917.

The Supreme Court of Ohio, after refusing to review a judgment of
the Ohio Court of Appeals by certiorari, dismissed a writ of error to
the judgment for want of jurisdiction. Held, that under Jud.
Code, ยง 237, the writ of this court rAn properly to the Court of
Appeals. Stratton v. Stratton, 239 U. S. 55.
In a controversy in the courts of Ohio over the right of one coiporation
to condemn land of another, Held, that the existence of the petitioning corporation, its right to condemn, its inability to agree as to
compensation to be paid for the property, and the necessity for the
appropriation, were matters depending purely on the local law.
It not appearing otherwise whether the judgment of the Ohio Court of
Appeals was based on provisions of local law or upon a question
which was raised under the Federal Constitution, 8emble, that the
action of the Supreme Court of the State in dismissing a writ of
error to the judgment for want of jurisdiction, upon the express
ground that no question under the state or federal constitutions
was involved in the judgment, would warrant this court in concluding
that the judgment had a non-federal basis only.
Where the judgment of a state court may rest upon either a federal or
a non-federal ground, and the basis actually adopted does not appear
by the state court's opinion or otherwise, this court has no jurisdiction to review.
Dismissed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Carroll G. Walter, with whom Mr. William Z.
Davis and Mr. John L. Wells were on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Joseph S. Clark, with whom Mr. John C. Weadock
and Mr. T. H. Yloysett were on the briefs, for defendants in
error.

CUYAHOGA POWER CO. v. NORTH'N REALTY CO. 301
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
The Cuyahoga River Power Company, plaintiff in error,
was chartered under the laws of Ohio to build and maintain a system of dams, canals and locks in the Big Cuyahoga River for the generation of electricity for light, heat
and other purposes. The corporation was granted authority to acquire by condemnation or purchase property
necessary for the conduct of its business. In January,
1911, the Power Company commenced this action against
the Northern Realty Company, one of the defendants in
error, to condemn a large tract of land owned by it adjacent to the river. After the suit was brought this land
was sold by the defendant company and was ultimately
acquired by The Northern Ohio Traction & Light Company, chartered by the State to operate an interurban
electric railway and upon the land thus bought by it after
the commencement of the suit that company for its
charter purposes built and was operating two large power
plants.
Upon its own motion the Traction Company was made
a party to the pending suit for expropriation. In* conformity with the Ohio %tatutesregulating the procedure in
eminent domain, four preliminary questions were required
to be passed upon by the court without a jury, and if decided in favor of the plaintiff, a jury was then required
to determine the question of compensation. The four
preliminary questions were these: (a) The existence of
the petitioning corporation, (b) its right to make the
approjriation, (c) its inability to agree as to the compensation to be paid for the property and (d) the necessity for
the appropriation. The defendants not only relied upon
these four preliminary propositions but also resisted the
taking on the ground that a condemnation of the land
under the petition of the Power Company would be incon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

sistent with and destructive of the public use to which the
land had been applied by the Traction Company. The
court did not come to a jury trial on the question of compensation because, after hearing evidence on the preliminary issues, on motion of the defendants it entered anorder aismissing the petition, no reason for such decision
having been expressed.
The case was taken to the Court of Appeals, it being
assigned as error that the trial court had erred in its rulings
on the four preliminary questions, and it was further
alleged that the refusal of the court to order the condemnation of the land upon the theory that it was not subject
to be condemned because after the suit had been brought
it had been acquired by the Traction Company and by it
dedicated to a public use, constituted an impairment of
the contract rights of the plaintiff and a taking of its
property without due process of law in violation of the
Constitution of the United States. Following a judgment
of affirmance without a written opinion, the Power Company applied to the Supreme Court of the State to direct
the Court of Appeals to certify the record for review, which
was denied, and a writ of error which was prosecuted to
the Court of Appeals from the Supreme Court was dismissed for want of jurisdiction for the stated ground that
the case did not "involve any question arising under the
Constitution of the United States or the State of Ohio."
Because of the asserted denial of the alleged federal rights
referred to the case is here, the writ of error being directed
to the Court of Appeals.
Our jurisdiction to review is challenged by a motion to
dismiss based upon two grounds which we consider
separately.
1. It is contended that as under ยง237 of the Judicial
Code we have jurisdiction to review only final judgments
of the highest court of the State in which a decision could
be had, the writ of error should have been prosecuted to

CUYAHOGA POWER CO. v. NORTH'N REALTY CO. 303
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Court of Ohio. In view, however, of the
denial by that court of the application to direct the Court
of Appeals to certify the record for review, and its order
dismissing the writ of error for want of jurisdiction,the contention is without merit. Stratton v. Stratton,239 U. S. 55;
Valley Steamship Company v. Wattawa, 241 U. S. 642; Second National Bank v. First National Bank, 242 U. S. 600.
2. It is contended that, conceding the existence of
federal questions in the case, nevertheless as there were
independent state grounds broad enough to sustain the
judgment, there is no jurisdiction. We think the contention is sound. Despite some suggestion to the contrary
it is certain that the four preliminary propositions concerned purely local law and, if decided adversely to the
plaintiff, were broad enough to sustain the judgment
irrespective of the merits of the federal question which it
is insisted was involved in the particular defence made by
the Traction Company concerning the public character
of the use to which it had applied the property and the
consequent want of authority to take it for the benefit
of the Power Company, which was submitted to the court
along with the preliminary questions. Leaving aside any
inference sustaining the view that the Supreme Court
treated the preliminary questions as having been adversely decided and the constitutional questions as having
been eliminated when it refused to order up the record
for review, that conclusion is sustained by its express
declaration made in refusing the writ of error that there
was no question under the state or Federal Constitution
involved,-a conclusion which if. it had not been in so
many words declared would, by necessary implication
have resulted from the dismissal of the writ of error for
want of jurisdiction since under the constitution and laws
of Ohio if a question under the Constitution of the United
States or the state constitution had existed, the duty to
take jurisdiction would have been obvious.

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

But assuming that we are not controlled by the statement of the Supreme Court of Ohio on this subject and
must determine it upon our own conception as to what
was done by the court whose judgment is under review,
the result would be the same. We so conclude because
looked at from the point of view of the action of the trial
court and of the Court of Appeals, the case presents the
single question of what principle is to be applied where
from an absence of an opinion expressed by the court
below it is impossible to say whether its judgment was
rested upon state questions adequate to sustain it independent of the federal questions or upon such federal
questions, both being in the case. But the rule which
controls such a situation has long prevailed and was
clearly expressed in Allen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149,
154-155, where a writ of error to the Supreme Court of
Florida was dismissed, as follows: "The Supreme Court
of Florida gave no opinion, and, therefore, we are left
to conjecture as to the grounds on which the pleas were
held to be bad, but if the judgment rested on two grounds,
one involving a Federal question and the other not, or if
it does not appear on which of two grounds the judgment
was based, and the ground independent of a Federal question is sufficient in itself to sustain it, this court will not
take jurisdiction. Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Company, 163 U. S. 63; Klinger v. Missouri, 13 Wall. 257;
Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300." Bachtel v. Wilson, 204
U. S. 36; Adams v. Russell, 229 U. S. 353.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.
MR. JUSTICE DAY

and MR. JUSTICE CLARKE took no

part in the consideration and decision of this case.

