McCOACH v. INSURANCE CO. OF N. AMER.
244 U. S.

585

Opinion of the Court.

McCOACH, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. INSURANCE COMPANY OF NORTH
AMERICA.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 475.

Argued March 14, 1917.-Decided June 11, 1917.

A fire and marine insurance company in Pennsylvania is not required
to maintain a reserve against unpaid losses by the law of that State
(P. L. 1911, p. 607), and, therefore, amounts added by it to such a
reserve may not be deducted in determining the company's taxable
net income under § 38 of the Federal Corporation Excise Tax Act
of August 5, 1909, c. 6, 36 Stat. 11, 112.
224 Fed. Rep. 657, reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Wallace for petitioner.
Mr. B. F. Pepper, with whom Mr. G. W. Pepper and
Mr. Bayard Henry were on the brief, for respondent*
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action brought by respondent, a fire aiad
marine insurance company of the State of Pennsylvania,
to recover a part of the excise taxes exacted of it for the
years 1910 and 1911 under the Act of August 5, 1909,
c. 6, § 38, 36 Stat. 11, 112. As the case comes here, only
two items are in dispute, one for each of the years mentioned, representing the tax upon amounts added in each
of those years to that part of what are called its "reserve
funds" that is held against accrued but unpaid losses.
The act imposed upon every insurance company organ-

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

ized under the laws of the United States or of any State
an annual excise tax with respect to the carrying on or
doing business, equivalent to one per centum upon its
entire net income over and above $5,000, with exceptions
not here pertinent. The second paragraph of § 38 provided: "Such net income shall be ascertained by deducting
from the gross amount of the income of such . . . insurance company . . . (second) all losses actually
sustained within the year and not compensated by insurance or otherwise, including a reasonable allowance for
depreciation of property, if any, and in the case of insurance companies the sums other than dividends, paid
within the year on policy and annuity contracts and the
net addition, if any, required by law to be made within the
year to reserve funds."
The italics indicate the particular words upon which
the controversy turns; the question being whether, within
the meaning of the act of Congress, "reserve funds," with
annual or occasional additions, are "required by law,"
in Pennsylvania, to be maintained by fire and marine
insurance companies, other than the" unearned premium"
or "reinsurance reserve," known to the general law of
insurance.
The District Court rendered a judgment in plaintiff's
favor, excluding however the disputed items (218 Fed.
Rep. 905); on plaintiff's writ of error the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed this judgment, with instructions to
allow the claim in full (224 Fed. Rep. 657); and the case
was*brought here by writ of certiorari.
Plaintiff was chartered by a special act, but is subject
to the state insurance law. Its business is confined to'fire
and marine insurance.
The law of Pennsylvania (Act of June 1, 1911, P. L.
607, 608) creates a State Insurance Commissioner with
supervisory control over the companips,; provides in § 4
that he shall see that all the laws, of the Commonwealth

McCOACH v. INSURANCE CO. OF N. AMER.
244 U. S.

587

Opinion of the Court.

respecting insurance companies are faithfully executed,
authorizing him to make examinations, to have access to
all the books and papers of any company, to examine
witnesses relative to its affairs, transactions, and condition, to publish the result of his examination wheti he
deems it for the interest of the policy-holders to do so,
and to suspend the entire business of any company during
its non-compliance with any provision of law obligatory
upon it, or whenever he shall find that its assets are insufficient to justify its continuance in business; and whenever he finds any company to be insolvent or fraudulently
conducted, or its assets insufficient for the carrying on of
its business, he is to communicate the facts to the Attorney General. By § 15 every insurance company is required to file annual statements with the commissioner,
upon blank forms to be furnished by him such as shall seem
to him best adapted to elicit a true exhibit of their financial
condition. Sections 7, 8, and 9, set forth in the margin,'
1 Section

7. In determining the liabilities upon its contracts of insurance of any insurance company other than life insurance, and the
amount such company should hold as a reserve for reinsurance,he shall,
for casualty insurance companies, charge one-half of the premium on
all annual policies written within one.year, and on policies written for
more than one year he shall charge one-half of the current year's
premiums, plus the whole of the premiums for subsequent years. For
fire insurance companies he shall charge fifty per centum of the premiums written in their policies upon all unexpired risks that have one
year, or less than one year, to run, and a pro rata of all. premiums on
risks having more than one year to run; on perpetual policies he shall
charge the deposit received, less a surrender charge of not exceeding
ten per centum thereof. For marine and inland risks he shall charge
fifty per centum of the premium written in the policy upon yearly
risks, and the full amount of the premium written in the policy upon
all other marine and inland risks not terminated.
Section 8. He shall, in calculating the reserve against unpaid losses
of casualty companies, other than losses under liability policies, set
down by careful estimate in each case the loss likely to be incurred
against every claim presented, or that may be presented in pursuance

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

make specific provisions for ascertaining the reserve for
different classes of companies other than life insurance
companies. Another act of the same date (P. L. 1911,
p. 599) provides for judicial proceedings at the instance
of the insurance commissioner looking to the dissolution
of insolvent and delinquent companies. Its provisions
need not be quoted.
A previous act (April 4, 1873, P. L. 20, 22), required a
specific reinsurance reserve against unexpired risks on
fire, marine, and inland policies. The Act of 1911, just
quoted, requires the maintenance of a substantially similar reserve; and, with respect to casualty companies and
these only, that a reserve be maintained against unpaid
losses, based upon the amount of claims presented. The
reference in § 9 to "reinsurance and loss reserves, as above
defined" is limited by what precedes it; and the section
deals not alone with "reserves," but requires "all other
debts and claims" to be accounted as liabilities.
It appears that under this legislation, and under previous statutes in force since 1873, the insurance commissioner has required plaintiff and similar companies to
return each year, as an item among their liabilities, the
net amount Of unpaid losses and claims, whether actually
adjusted, in process of adjustment, or resisted. And,
although this practice has not been sanctioned by any
decision of te Supreme Court of the State, it is relied
upon as an administrative interpretation of the law.
of notice from the insured of the occurrence of an event that may result in a loss; and the sum of the items so estimated shall be the total
amount of the reserve. . .
Section 9. Having charged as a liability the reinsurance and loss
reserves, as above defined for insurance companies of this Commonwealth other than life, and adding thereto all other debts and claims
against the company, the Commissioner shall, in case he finds the capital of the company impaired twenty per centum, give notice to the
company to make good the capital within sixty days. .

McCOACH v. INSURANCE CO. OF N. AMER.
244 U. S.

589

Dissent.

Conceding full effect to this, it still does not answer the
question whether the amounts required to be held against
unpaid losses, in the case of fire and marine insurance companies, are held as "reserves," within the meaning of the
Pennsylvania law or of the act of Congress, however they
may be designated upon the official forms. As already
appears, the Pennsylvania act specifically requires debts
and claims of all kinds to be included in the statement
of liabilities, and treats them as something distinct from
reserves. The object is to exercise abundant caution to
maintain the companies in a secure financial position.
The act of Congress, on the other hand, deals with
reserves not particularly in their bearing upon the solvency of the company, but as they aid.in determining
what part of the gross income ought to be treated as net
income for purposes of taxation. There is a specific provision for deducting "all losses actually sustained within
the year and not compensated by insurance or otherwise."
And this is a sufficient indication that losses in immediate contemplation, but not as yet actually sustained,
were not intended to be treated as part of the reserve
funds; that term rather having reference to the funds
ordinarily held as against the contingent liability on outstanding policies.
In our opinion the reserve against unpaid losses is not
"required by law," in Pennsylvania, within the meaning
of the act of Congress.
It results that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals should be reversed and that of the District Court
affirmed.
Reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE and

MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

dissent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

took no part in the con-

sideration or decision of this case.

