CHICAGO LIFE INS. CO. v. CHERRY.
244 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

CHICAGO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY ET AL.
v. CHERRY.
ERROR TO THE APPELLATE COURT FOR THE FIRST DISTRICT
OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
No. 171.

Argued.April 18, 1917.-Decided May 7, 1917.

In an action on a sister state judgment a state court may inquire
whether there was personal jurisdiction in the prior proceedings,
notwithstanding the question was raised by the judgment defendant
and affirmatively decided against him after full hearing both in the
trial court which rendered the judgment and in the appellate courts
of the same State to which he took the case for review.
The claim that a money judgment by a state court violates due process for want of jurisdiction over the defendant's person is not sustainable if the jurisdiction was questioned by him by plea in abatement and by proceedings in the state courts of review, and sustained
after fair hearings before the judgment became finally effective.
A judgment rendered in such circumstances, being sued upon in the
courts of another State, was sustained upon the ground that the
matter of personal jurisdiction could not be reopened. Held, that
no violation of due process was involved, since the original judgment
satisfied due process and the reason assigned for upholding it, if
erroneous, amounted only to a mistake concerning the law of the
State in which the judgment was rendered.
A decision of a state court upholding a judgment of another State
raises no question in this court under the Full Faith and Credit
Clause.
What documentary matter should be filed with the declaration in an
action in a state court upon a sister state judgment is P, local question not reviewable by this court.
190 Ill. App. 70, affirmed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. Charles A. Atkinson, with whom Mr. Chilton P.
Wilson and Mr. Charles J. O'Connor were on the briefs,
for plaintiffs in error:

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

244 U. S.

The decisions of the Tennessee courts to the effect that
they had jurisdiction over plaintiffs in error do not preclude the courts of Illinois from examining the record
facts in the Tennessee courts to determine the question
of jurisdiction. D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11 How. 165; Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476; Haddock v. Haddock, 201 U. S.
572; Thompson v: Whitman, 18 Wall. 457; Sheldon v.
Wabash Ry. Co., 105 Fed. Rep. 785; Gilman v. Gilman,
126 Massachusetts, 26; and other cases. A court cannot
acquire jurisdiction by the mere assertion of it. Gould
v. Glass, 19 Barb. 179; Harkness v. Hyde, supra; In re
Eichoff, 101 California, 600; Williamson v. Berry, 8 How.
495; Brown on Jurisdiction, 2d ed., § 26. In raising the
question plaintiffs in error merely filed pleas to the jurisdiction of the person; they entered no general appearance.
In a suit upon a judgment recovered in another State
against a foreign corporation there is no presumption of
jurisdiction arising from the judgment alone. Galpin v.
Page, 18 Wall. 350; Settlemier v. Sullivan, 97 U. S. 444.
The rule of res judicata is inapplicable; it applies only
where the court has jurisdiction of both the person and
the subject-matter.
The Tennessee decisions were based upon the peculiar
statutes of that State (Code of Tennessee, §§ 4543, 4545)
which provide for service of process upon any agent of a
foreign corporation found within the county where the
suit is brought "no matter what character of agent such
person may be," or, if such agent cannot be found, the
one who represented the corporation at the time the
transaction out of which the suit arose took place. It is
submitted that these provisions are unconstitutional in
that they authorize the service of process and a method
of acquiring jurisdiction without an opportunity to the
defendant to be heard, and thus deprive plaintiffs in error
of their property without due process of law. Scott v.
McNeal, 154 U. S. 34; Thompson v. Whitman, supra;

CHICAGO LIFE INS. CO. v. CHERRY.
244 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

St. Clair v. Cox, 106 U. S. 350;' Goldey v. Morning News,
156 U. S. 158.
Where a foreign corporation is not transacting business
in the State where the judgment was rendered, the court
can only acquire jurisdiction by an entry of appearance
or waiver of service. Pennoyer v. Neff, 95 U. S. 714;
Peterson v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., 205
U. S. 364; Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Spratley, 172
U. S. 602; Goldey v. Morning News, 156 U. S. 518; and
other cases.
The Federal Life Insurance Company was not doing
business in Tennessee at the time of service, nor was service had upon its duly authorized agent. The service,
therefore, was ineffectual to confer jurisdiction. Peterson
v. Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., supra; Goldey
v. Morning News, supra. The return of the sheriff stating
that the person served was served as agent of the Chicago
Life Insurance Company, it being agent of the Federal
Life at the time of the delivery of the policy, is ineffective,
as service upon an agent of an agent. Peterson v. Chicago,
Rock Island & Pacific Ry. Co., supra; International T. B.
Co. v. Heart, 136 Fed. Rep. 129; Union Pacific R. R. Co.
v. Miller, 87 Illinois, 45.
Service of process on the Insurance Commissioner as
agent of the Chicago Life Insurance Company was also
invalid. Section III, c. 253, of the Acts of Tennessee,
requires service upon the Insurance Commissioner by the
proper officer of the county in which the commissioner
may have his office. The record fails to show that the
Chicago Life was licensed to do business in Tennessee or
that it was doing business there at the time of service.
The statute does not and the Chicago Life did not authorize the commissioner to accept service for it. Where
a statute provides the manner of service of process that
method must be followed. Settlemier v. Sullivan, supra;
Farmer v. Mutual Life Association, 50 Fed. Rep. 829, 831;

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the.Court.

244 U. S.

Hebal v. Amazon Insurance Co., 33 Michigan, 400; Bennett v. Supreme Tent of K. & M. of W., 82 Pac. Rep. 744;
Eisenhofer v. New Yorker Zeitung Pub. & Prtg. Co., 86
N. Y. Supp. 438. It follows that the process issuing out of
the Circuit Court of Chester County, directed to the
sheriff of Davidson County, and served on the Commissioner in the latter county as agent of the Chicago Life,
did not confer jurisdiction upon the Circuit Court of
Chester County, where the suit was brought.
The case of Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S. 506, does
not apply to the case at bar. In bringing action in the
Supreme Court of Indiana, Mrs. Forsyth submitted herself to the jurisdiction of that court and the question
whether the court had jurisdiction over her was not involved. In the present case the suing out of a writ of
error in the Court of Civil Appeals and petitioning for a
certiorari from the Supreme Court were not the bringing
of an original or a new action in either of those courts.
Nations v. Johnson, 24 How. 195, 204; Pennoyer v. Neff,
95 U. S. 714, 734. If the Circuit Court of Chester County
did not have jurisdiction of plaintiffs in error, neither
that court nor the Court of Civil Appeals had power to
render judgment against them. Goldey v. Morning News,
156 U. S. 518; Harkness v. Hyde, 98 U. S. 476; Walling
v. Beers, 120 Massachusetts, 549; Fisher Sons & Co. v.
Crowley, 57 W. Va. 312.
Mr. Vernon R. Loucks, with whom Mr. Fred H. Atwood
and Mr. Charles 0. Loucks were on the brief, for defendant
inerror.
MR. JUSTICn HoLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit in Illinois upon a judgment recovered in
Tennessee against the insurance companies, plaintiffs in
error. They pleaded and set up at the trial that there
never was a valid service upon them in Tennessee and

CHICAGO LIFE INS. CO. v. CHERRY.
244 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

that the judgment was void. The defendant in error (the
plaintiff) showed in reply, without dispute, that the defence was urged in Tennessee by pleas in abatement, that,
upon demurrer to one plea and upon issue joined on the
other, the decision was for the plaintiff, and that the judgment was affirmed by the higher courts. The plaintiff had
judgment at the trial in Illinois, the judgment was affirmed
by the Appellate Court and a writ of certiorari was denied
by the Supreme Court of that State. The insurance companies say that the present judgment deprives them of
their property without due process of law. Other sections
of the Constitution are referred to in the assignments of
error but they have no bearing upon the case.
The ground upon which the present judgment was sustained by the Appellate Court was that as the issue of
jurisdiction over the parties was raised and adjudicated
after full hearing in the former case it could not be reopened in this suit. The matter was thought to stand
differently from a tacit assumption or mere declaration in
the record that the court had jurisdiction.
A court that renders judgment against a defendant
thereby tacitly asserts, if it does not do so expressly, that
it has jurisdiction over that defendant. But it must be
taken to be established that a court cannot conclude all
persons interested by its mere assertion of its own power,
Thompson v. Whitman, 18 Wall. 457, even where its power
depends upon a fact and it finds the fact. Tilt v. Kelsey,
207 U. S. 43, 51. A divorce might be held void for want
of jurisdiction although the libellee had appeared in the
cause. Andrews v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14, 16, 17, 38.
There is no doubt of the general proposition that in a suit
upon a judgment the jurisdiction of the court rendering
it over the person of the defendant may be inquired into.
NationalExchange Bank v. Wiley, 195 U. S. 257. Haddock
v. Haddock, 201 V. S. 562, 573. But when the power of the
court in all other respects is establi :hed, what acts of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1916.
Opinion of the Court.

244 U. S.

defendant shall be deemed a submission to its power is a
matter upon which States may differ. If a statute should
provide that filing a plea in abatement, or taking the question to a higher court should have that effect, it could not
be said to deny due process of law. The defendant would
be free to rely upon his defence by letting judgment go
by default. York v. Texas, 137 U. S. 15. Western Life
Indemnity Co. v. Rupp, 235 U. S. 261, 272, 273. If without a statute a court should decide as we have supposed
the statute to enact, it would infringe no rights under
the Constitution pf the United States. That a party that
has taken the question of jurisdiction to a higher court
is bound by its decision was held in Forsyth v. Hammond,
166 U. S. 506, 517. It can be no otherwise when a court
so decides as to proceedings in another State. It may be
mistaken upon what to it is matter of fact, the law of the
other State. But a mere mistake of that kind is not a
denial of due process of law. PennsylvaniaFire Insurance
Co. v. Gold Issue Mining & Milling Co., 243 U. S. 93, 96.
Whenever a wrong judgment is entered against a defendant his property is taken when it should not have been,
but whatever the ground may be, if the mistake is not so
gross as to be impossible in a rational administration of
justice, it is no more than the imperfection of man, not
a denial of constitutional rights. The decision of the
Illinois courts, right or wrong, was not such a denial. If
the Tennessee judgment had been declared void in Illinois
this court might have been called upon to decide whether
it had been given due faith and credit. National Exchange
Bank v. Wiley, 195 U. S. 257. But a decision upholding
it upon the ground taken in the present case does not
require us to review the Tennessee decision or to go further than we have gone. An objection that a copy of the
document sued upon should have been filed with the declaration is a matter of state procedure and not open here.
Judgment affirmed.

