DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

415"*

Wylie v. Coxe.

The annuities created to establish an Asylum for the Poor
and a School Farm- and of the validity of which grave
doubts exist- are charges upon the legacy of the cities. If the
directions of the testator cannot be legally complied with, the
charge will be remitted without defeating the legacy. Say. Roman Law, ยง 120, 129.
We shall not express any decided opinion in reference to
either of the annuities, but leave the question of their validity
to be settled by the persons interested, or by the tribunals to
whose jurisdiction they approptiately belong.
We have considered it to be our duty to examine the several
questions which arise upon the record, so that the imp6rtant interests involved in them may be relieved from further embarrassment and controversy. In our opinion, the failure of the devise
to the cities would not have benefited the appellees; for that
the limitation over to the States of Maryland and Louisiana
would have been operative in that event.
We close our opinion with expressing our acknowledgments
for the aid we have received from the able arguments at the
bar, and the profound discussions in the Supreme Court of
Louisiana, with whose judgment we have concurred.
The decree of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana is reversed, and the cause remanded to that court,
with directions to dismiss the bill of the plaintiffs with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record frora the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration wiereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in thig cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs;
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
gaid Circuit Court, with directions to that court to dismiss the
bill of the complainants, with costs in that court.

ANDREW WYLIE, JR., ADMINISTRATOR OF SAMUEL

BALDWIN, Ar-

PELLANT, V. RicHARD S. CoxE.
Where a contract was made with au attorney for the prosecution of a claim against
Mexico for a stipulated proportion of the amount recovered, and services were rne-

416

SUPREM E COURT.
Wylie v. Coxe.

dered, the death of the owner of the claim did not dissolve the contract, but the
compensation remained a lien upon the money when recovered.
A court of equity can exercise jurisdiction over the case if a more adequate remedy
can be thus obtained than in a court of law.
The want of jurisdiction should have been alleged in the court below, either by
plea or answer, if the defendant intended to avail himself of it. It is too late to
urge it in an appellate court, unless it appears on the face of the proceedings.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county
of Washington.
It was a bill filed by Mr. Coxe, under the circumstances stated
in the opinion of the court.
The Circuit Court passed the following decree.
Tn Equity.- This cause having been set down for hearing,
by consent upon the bill, answer, general replication, and the
testimony filed in the case, and having been argued by counsel,
and having been fully and materially considered by the court
it is thereupon, on this twenty-eighth day of April, in the year
Qf our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two, ordered,
adjudged, and decreed, that the averments -.n said bill contained
are fully established and sustained, and that complainant is
justly and truly entitled to the relief which he prays; and inasmuch as it is thus shown and established .tiat said respondent,
as administrator of Samuel Baldwin, did obtain an award as
averred, for the sum of seventy-five thousand dollars, which said
sum it is admitted that he has received f-rom the government
of the. United States, and that he holds the same free and clear
of all debts due by said intestate; and it being fully shown and
established that, by and under the contract made in the lifetime
of said Samuel Baldwin between the said Samuel and said
complainant, said complainant is justly and equitably entitled
to have and receive out of said fund, so' in the hands of said
defendant, as administrator as aforesaid, at the rate of five per
centum on the said sum of seventy-five thousand dollars.
Whereupon, it is now further ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that said defendant,, as administrator as aforesaid, do forthwith
pay over to said complainant the sum of three thousand seven
hundred and fifty dollars.
And whereas it further appears, and it is; admitted, that said
award became and was payable to said defendant, as administrator as aforesaid, on the sixteenth day of May, eighteen hundrkd and fifty-one, it is further ordered, decreed, and adjudged,
that said defendant,, as administrator as aforesaid, do further
pay to said complainant interest on said sum of three thousand
seven hundred and fifty dollars, to be calculated and estimated

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

417

Wylie v.- Coxe.

from said 16th May, 1851, until paid, together with the costs of
this suit.
From this decree, Wylie, the administrator appealed to tliis
court.
Afterwards he filed a petition to the Circuit Court to set
aside the decree for reasons which it is unnecessary to state;
but the cort overruled the motion, from which judgment also
Wylie prayed an appeal to this court. This is mentioned in
order that the case in 14 Howard, 1, may be understood.
The case as it now stood before this court, was argued by M1r.
WTylie, for the appellant, and M!r. Badger, for the appellee.
111r. Wylie made the following points:
First Point.-The death of Samuel Baldwin in December,
1847, put an end to the agency of'both John Baldwin and Richard S. Coxe, as to this claim. Hunt v. Rousmanier, 8 Wheat
174; Campbell v. Kincaid, 3 Monroe, Rep. 566. Newbaker v.
Alricks, 5 Watts, 183.
Second Point.- There is no contract even alleged as between
complainant and respondent, much less a contract fixing the
compensation of the former at five per cent. on the amount recovered. On the contrary, any such contract, agreement, or under.
standing, is positively denied by the answer, nor was there the
slightest proof thereof on the part of the complainant. And yet
the court below decreed the payment of the five per cent. as
though such a contract had been proved.
Third Point.- There was no evidence on the part of complainant to show that he had rendered any valuable service in
the case, which in equity and good faith required compensation;
and if such service had been rendered at the request of the administrator, there being no special contract shown, the decree'of
the court below was erroneous. The quantum meruit should
have been established in another tribunal.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
Tliis is an appeal in chancery, from the Circuit Court for the
District of Columbia.
The complainant, Richard S. Coxe, filed his bill stating that
about the year eighteen hundred and forty-two or three, a certain Samuel Baldwin, a citizen of the United States, residing
in Mexico, had a claim against the Mexican Republic for personal outrages and losses of property through the officers of that
government. Many similar claims were brought to the notice
of the Government of the United States, to enlist its efforts for
an indemnity from the Mexican Republic; that the complain-

418

SUPREME COURT.
Wylie v. Coxe.

ant was employed -by Doctor John Baldwin, the brother of
Samuel, to prosecute his claim, and various documents and
papers connected with the same, were placed in his hands,
showing the origin and merits of the claim; that he brought it
to the notice of the government for several years, urging an indemnity. Much time and labor were expended in this service,
in written communications and otherwise to different Secretaries of State. War against Mexico was declared, which suspended his efforts, until a peace was concluded in 1848, which
provided for the settlement of those claims. An act of Congress was passed, and a board of commissioners authorized to
examine and decide such claims. The board being organized,
the papers in relation to Baldwin's claim were laid before it
That up to April, 1849, no other person acted as agent or attorney for the claim but the complainant. He did every thing that
was done in bringing the case before our governmen t for an in.
demnity*: Samuel Baldwin died, and letteis of administration
by the advice of the complbanant, were granted to Andrew
Wylie, the defendant. The claim was allowed by the commissioners, amounting to the sum of seventy-five thousand dollars,
and the complainant believes that to his raeasu~es and argu-.
ments this allowance may be principally atirbuted.
It was understood that a commission of five per cent. should
be allowed on the sum awarded for the services of the complainant. That the defendant has refused to pay the compensation stated, &c.
The defendant admits that he was called upon by John Baldwin and complainant, and at their instance he took out letters
of administration on the estate of Samuel Baldwin. The complainant was not employed by defendant--but supposing he
had been engaged as counsel by the widow, a memorial was
prepared to be presented to the board, settiag forth the claim,
by the defendant and submitted to the complainant, which he
approved, and it was used before the board. Other documents
being furnished, another memorial was presented by the defendant.
Mr. Goix, the agent of the widow, came on :from Mexico, bringing with him the will of Samuel Baldwin, which bequeathed to
his wife and children his property and appointed her executrix.
Goix, being the agent of the widow, dismissed the complainant
as the attorney in the case, after which he wEas not consulted by
the defendant; and any services rendered by the complainant
subsequently, were voluntary. The defendant, however, admits,
that on one or two occasions, the complainant "happened to be
present with the board 6f commissioners, while the claim was
under consideration, and rendered essential -ervice in removing

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

419

Wylie v. Coxe.

objections which might have proved very injurious, if not fatal
to it, if -they had not been removed."
John Baldwin, a brother of Samuel, being sworn, states, that
he received various documents from his brother in relation to
this, claim, with instructions to take measures for the recovery
of it. He placed the papers in the hands of the complainant,
and agreed with him to prosecute the claim on the same conditions as a claim he had prosecuted for witness. The papers
were translated, and, with a memorial, were filed in the department of State. His brother died, and at the instance of complainant the defendant was appointed administrator, for-whose
services witness agreed to pay five per cent. but witness did not
intend to supersede the complainant, and thinks he is entitled
to his fee.
In answer to an interrogatory, the witness says, the complainant was to receive a contingent fee of five per centurn out of
the fund awarded, whether money or scrip; if nothing was received, he was entitled to nothing for his services.
It is contended by the defendant, that the complainant having been dismissed by the agent of the widow, who was the
dxecutrix of her husband, and not being employed by the defendant, he has no right to the compensation claimed. That
John Baldwin acted as the agent of his brother, in making the
contract with the complainant is proved. The defendant seems
to suppose that, as on the death of Samuel Baldwin, the agency
of his brother ceased, the contract which had been made by
him was no longer in force. The relation of administrator -enabled the defendant, to control the case and dispense with the
further services of the complainant; but he had no power to
annul the contract if made bond fide, by the complainant, and
the business had been faithfully prosecuted by him.
It appears the complainant, on being employed in the case,
had the papers translated and filed, with a memorial, in the Department of State; and that for several years, with much labor,
he did all in his power to procure the action of the federal
government in its behalf. A claim of indemnity from Mexico,
through the remonstrances of our government, was the only step
which, at that time, could be taken. A war intervened, and on
the restoration of peace, provision was made for the examination and decision of such claims, and also for their paymenf.
The complainant gave advice as to the necessary evidence to
be procured in Mlexico, for the establishment of the claim, and
was consulted respecting the memorial to the commissioiers;
and while they had the claim under examination, it is admitted
that the complainant, by his explanations and arguments, removed difficulties and objections which, unexplained, would in

SUPREME COURT.
Wylie v. Coxe.

all probability have prevented the allowance of the claim. We
think the contract is proved, also the services rendered under it,
by the complainant, and that he is entitled to the compensation
claimed.
It is objected that equity can exercise :ao jurisdiction in the
case, as adequate relief may be obtained at law.
There may be a legal remedy, and yet if a more complete
remedy can be had in chancery, it is a sufficient ground for jurisdiction. The 8th section of the act to cu Ty out the Mexican
treaty, authorizes a bill to be filed, where an individual other
than the one to whom the money was awarded claims it, to
contest the right, and to enjoin the payment of the money.
This applies only to cases where different individuals claim the
fund, but the reason of such a proceeding may, to some extent,
apply to other cases. And it applies to the case before us, if
the money still remain in the treasury. Tie bill, however, does
not seem to have been drawn with reference to the act.
The evidence proves that the complainant was to receive a
contingent fee of five per centum, out of the fund awarded,
W#hether money or scrip. This being the contract, it constituted a lien upon the fund, whether it should be money or scrip.
The fund was looked to and not the perso:aal responsibility of
the owner of the claim. A bill filed ufider the act would have
authorized an injunction for the amount claimed, by complainant. Such a procedure would be within the act. But under
the contract the lien on the fund in the hands of the administrator, is a sufficient ground for an equitr jurisdiction. The
payment of the fund to the executrix in Mexico would place it,
probably, beyond the reach of the complainant.
The want of jurisdiction, if relied on by the defendants, should
have been alleged by plea or answer. It is too late to raise
such an objection on the hearing in the appellate court, unless
the want of jurisdiction is apparent on the face of the bill.
We affirm the decree with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby,.affirmed, with costs and interest until paid, at the same
rate pei annum that similar decrees bear in the courts of the
District of Columbia.

