272

SUPREME

COURT.

Corning et al. v. Burden.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York, and wait argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is now here crdered and adjudged
by this court, that the judgment of the maid Circuit Court, in
this cause, be, and the same is hereby, revarsed, with costs, and
that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the
said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venire facias de
1zOvo.

JOHN GARROiV, THOMrAS Y. How, JR., JAMES SEYMOUR, AND
GEORGE MILLER, APPELLANTS, V. Alios DAvIs, GEORGE X.
PICKERING, WILLIAM MCCRILLIS, AND EPHRAIM PAULK.
Black, as agent for the owners, contracted to sell a large quantity of land in aine,
which contract was assigned by the vendee, until it came, through mesne assignments, into the hands of Miller and others.
Payments were made from time to time on account; hut at length, in consequence of
a failure to make the payments stipulated in the coatract, and by virtue of a clause
contained in it, the contract became void.
In this state of things, Miller employed one Paulk to ascertain from Black the lowest
price that he would take for the land, and then to sl to others for the highest
price that he could get.
Paulk sold and assigned the contract to Davis for $1,050.
Upon the theory that Paulk and Davis entered into a f-audulent combination, still,
Miller and others are not entitled to demand that a court of equity should consider
Davis as a trustee of the lands for their use. They had no interest in them, legal
or equitable, nor any thing but a good will, which alone was the subject-matter of
the fraud, if there was any.
But the evidence rows that this good will did not exist; for Black was not willing
to sell to 'Miller and others for a less price than to any other person.
Although Paulk represented himself to be acting for Millr gnd others, when in reality he was representing Davis, yet he did not obtain Lho land at a reduced price
thereby; but, on the contrary, at its fair market value.
The charges of fraud in the bill are denied in the answers, and the evidence is not
sufficient to sustain the allegations.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Un.t'ed
States for the District of Maine, sitting as a court of equity.
The appellants were complainants below, whose bill was. digmissed under the circumstances stated in the opinion of the
court.
The cause was argued by Mr. Seward, for the appellants,
and by .Mr. S epley and M"fr. Rowe, for the appellees.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

278

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

Complainants' Points.
Point L The complainants, assignees of the contracts of
February 17, 1835, for 28,804 acres of pine lands, had an interest in those contracts and lands, which subsisted until they
were surrendered by Davis to Black, in November, 1844; and
this interest was, if not a legal chose in action, at least a chose
in equity of some, and even considerable value. These instruments were executory contracts for the purchase of land, of a
value, variously estimated at different, times, of from $86,000
to $172,000.
Point II. The complainants are proper parties, and are entitled to maintain their suit against the defendants.
Point III. The defendant Paulk, while acting as agent of the
complainants, in procuring possession of the ?ontracts and the
power to assign them, and in conducting the negotiations in
their behalf with ColoRel Black, on the one side, and with the
defendants and others, as purchasers, on the other side, conmiffed the frauds charged in the complainants' bill. The allegations of the bill on this important issue are sustained.
Point IV. The defendants, Davis, Pickering, and MeCrillis,
by means of frauds comnirtted by Paulk with their knowledge,
had, by colluding with him in the perpetration of these frauds
against the complainants, acquired from Colonel Black, at the
cost of the complainants, and under false representations to
him that they were the assignees of the complainants, and that
the complainants were the real beneficiaries, the contracts for
the 28,804 acres of pine land in Maine, which was of very
considerable value.
Point V. The defendants' excuses and attempts to explain
are unavailing.
Point VL The complainants are entitled to a decree, according to the prayer of their bill. The account to be decreed is an
account of future as well as past profits; and the defendants
ought to be decreed to assign the contract of Black to the complainants upon just terms, so as to secure the defendants their
advances, and to the complainants their profits.
Defendants' Points.
1. None of the parties plaintiff had any interest in or under
the Black contract at the time of the alleged fraud.
2. The claim, if any, is stale, and is lost by laches of the
plaintiffs.
They have never refunded to Davis the money he paid; nor
offered to do so.

274

SUPREME COURT.
Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

They never offered to repay the cash payment of $7,500; or
to take up, or to indemnify Davis and PE.ulk against the notes
given for the land; but mwaited till September, 1847, till the
result of the operations on the township showed the speculation
to be a good one; and then they filed their bill claiming the
benefit of it.
No court can allow one party to hold himself prepared to
take advantage of all favorable contingencies, without being
affected by those which are unfavorable. Marshall, C. J., in
Brashier v. Gratz, 6 Wheat. 528; 13 Ves. 238; 4 Dall. 345; 14
Pet. 170; Benedict v. Lynch, 1 Johns. Ch. R. 370.
3. The plaintiffs had not the means nor the intention of purchasing the lands at such a price as they would fetch in the market. They were embarrassed in their finances, disgusted with
speculations in Eastern lands, and "in "gnorance, doubt, and
uncertainty, as to the real value of said lands, and the true quantity of pine timber thereon;" their only intention being to sell
the contracts. Paulk was directed to a ,certain the final and
lowest price that Black would take for the lands of the persons
holding the contracts, for -the purpose of aiding him in the sale
of the contracts, and not for the purpose of enabling his principals to decide whether they would or not become purchasers of
the lands.
Years after, when the price had been quite or nearly repaid,
by the proceeds of the timber, plaintiffs claim to be the equltable owners, without having advanced, or offered to advance, a
single dollar.
That of which the bill charges that the defendants defrauded
the plaintiffs -that is, the difference between the price at which
Black would sell the lands to the plaintiffs, and the price at which
he would sell to others; or, "so much as the said John Black,
by compromise, should agree to take less than the fair value of
the lands "- did not exist.
4. There was no fraud on the part of either of the defendants.
Each denies all combination, fraud, &,-., on his own part;
and knowledge, or belief, of any, on the part of his co-defendants, &c.
As each stands, in relation to this question of fraud, in a position different from the others, it will be necessary to consider
their position separately.
Paulk was the agent of Miller alone of plaintiffs, p. 43; and
of Norton. The case shows no precedent authority, or subsequent ratification, from the others.
By his answer. it appears that the only instructions he had
from Norton were to sell, for $1,000; and if he could not get

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

275

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

that, to take less, and "to close the matter in the shortest possible
time."

That Miller's instructions were, to endeavor to find some one
who would buy the-lands, and give the holders of the bonds
some portion of the lands, or of the profits (if any) of the speculation; and," if he could not make such an arrangement, to
sell the contracts for the most he could get, as the holders had
neither the intention nor the means of buying themselves."
He attempted to make such an arrangement with Pickering,
and failed. Any further attempt would have been useless, as
Black asked him more for the land than it would fetch in the
market.
He then sold.the contracts for the highest sum offered.
Upon these points, the answer is responsive and uncontradicted.
There is no evidence that he could have got any more for
the contracts; there is no evidence that they were worth any
more.

The answer denies that he was bound by his instructions to
ascertain Black's lowest price before selling; and is not contradicted.
He did, however, first ascertain all that was material on this
point, namely, that Black would make no reduction in favor of
his principals; nor sell the lands for less than the full market
value.

The answer denies all improper disclosures to the defendants.
The answer donies that any false statement was made to
Miller or Norton; and sets out the statements which were
made.
There is no evidence which contradicts it, in this respect, in
any material point.
The agreement, that he should continue the negotiation with
Black for Davis's benefit, was not a provision for his own private benefit, but a necessary consequence of the idea of reduction in price, which he held out as inducement to Davis.
The answer denies that he had any interest in the purchase
from Black, and that he received any money, property, or securities from any of the defendants, for any thing done before the
assignment to Davis.
The payment of $1,500 was for honest and proper services
rendered to Davis afterwards.
The answer on this point is responsive, and not contradicted,
-that he acted with fidelity to his principals, to the extent even
of wronging Davis, by suppressing facts which he should have
disclosed to him.

(Then followed an analysis of all the answers.)

276

SUPREME

COURT.

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

M~r. Justice CURFTIS delivered the opirion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States, for the District of Maine, dismissing the complainants' bill. The substance of the bill is, that John Black,
as agent for the trustees under the will oF William Bingham,
on the 17th of February, 1835, contracted, in writing, with
Charles Ramsdale to sell to him a township and adjacent tracts
of land in that State, containing twenty thousand eight hundred
and four acres, for the price of three dollars per acre, payable
one fifth in sixty days, and the residue in four equal annual
payments-the contract of sale expressly providing that, in
case of failure to make either of these payments, the contract
was to be void. That, on the 1st day of April, 1835, Ramsdale
assigned these contracts to Nathaniel Norton and Jairus Keith,
in consideration of their agreement to pay to him the sum of
two dollars for each acre of the said lands; and that, at a still
further advance of one dollar on an acre, the contracts of Black
came to the complainants and one Herman Norton, by assign
ment, in November, 1835.
That Ramsdale made the first, and the complainants some
other payments, amounting in the whole to about forty thou.
sand dollars, but failed to pay the residue. That subsequent
to the year 1840, nothing was done by them concerning the
lands until after July, 1844, when one of the complainants
received from Black a letter stating that, though all their rights
were terminated many years since, he desired to know whether
they wished to do any thing respecting the payments for the
lands. That, thereupon, Miller, one of the complainants, emplbyed Ephraim Paulk, one of the defendants, to negotiate with
Black, and finally instructed him, to ascertain from Black the
lowest price at which he would let the complainants have the
land, and then to sell the complainants' rights and interests
under the contracts for the highest price he could obtain-the
supposition of the complainants being, that Black would sell
the lands to them for much less than he could obtain from
others, by reason of their having already paid a large sum
towards the purchase-money, under the contracts above mentioned. The bill further states, that Paulk sold and assigned
the contracts to Davis for the sum of $1,050; and it charges
that, before doing so, he entered into a fraudulent combination with Davis and the other defendants, to obtain from the
complainants an assignment of these contracts for a trifling
sum, and then to negotiate with Black as if for the complainants, and thus defraud the complainants of what Black should
be willing to discount from the fair value of the lands, on
account of their peculiar equities; that he, in combination

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

277

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

with the other defendants, actually executed this scheme,
and obtained the lands from Black for a much less price
than could have been got from others, by reason of Black's
belief that he was abating the price for the benefit of the complainants. And the bill prays that the defendants may be
treated as trustees of the complainants, in respect to these
lands, and for an account, and- for other relief.
So far as respects the title to these lands, or any claim of the
complainants to have them charged -with a trust in their favor,
we think the complainants, upon the statements in their bill,
and upon the proofs, have made no case. They had no legal
or equitable title under their contracts with Black. Being in
default for more than se-,en years, and about four years having
elapsed since any thing ±ad been done by them under these' expired contracts, they were not in a condition to insist on any
rights or claims to the land; and, as will be presently more
fullr stated, Black did not treat with them or their agent upon
the basis of any legal or equitable right, nor is it alleged that
they had any intention or took any measures to acquire the
lanas. In consequence chiefly of Black's letter, of the 22d of
July, 1844, inquiring what they wished to do about the payments, they conceived that Black might be willing to sell the
lands to them for less than he would sell them to others, and
that, this good vll might be a valuable subject of sale. To dispose of it, they employed the defendant, Paulk. If they have
been defrauded, in its. sale, by the defendants, they are entitled
to relief; but in the lands themselyes they had no interest, and
did not intend by Paulk's agency, to acquire any; and if all
the fraud charged in the bill was perpetrated, it affected not
any tiile of theirs to the land, or any negotiation for its acquisi.
tion, but solely the compensation which they might otherwise
have obtained for Black's good will towards them, as the
holders of the expired contracts. This was the only subject.
matter upon which the alleged fraud could operate.
To this subject-matter our inquiries must be limited. To
entitle themselves to relief, the complainants must proire fraud
and damage; or, to state the principle less abstractly, they must
show that their agent disposed of what he was employed to sell,
for less than its value, and that he did thisfraudulently.
The value of the complainants' interest is alleged by the bill
to have consisted in the intention of Black to sell the lands to
the complainants for less than their fair value; and this intention is alleged to have been actually executed by Black, by a
sale to the defendants at a price far less than he could have
obtained from others, under the belief that this abatement of
price was for the benefit of the complainants. If this were so,
VOL. XV.

24

278

SUPREME COURT.
Garrow et a.

v. Davis et al.

it could not be doubted that the complainants' interest was a
valuable one, and that its value was capale of being precisely
ascertained; for it would then amount to -the sum which Black
thus abated from the market price of the lands.
But the proofs not only fail to show that Black intended to
abate any thing from the price, but they leave no doubt that he
actually sold the lands for their fair market -value, without any
abatement whatever. The complainants have taken his testimony, and he declares, that he did not ccnsider the complainants had any legal or equitable claims originating from the
contracts; that he never intended to make them any allowance
or consideration on the renewal of the bonds or contracts that
when he sold the lands, he did not consider that he had .a de
any deduction on account of any claims of the complainants;
that if any other person had offered him more for the lands than
Paulk did, he should have sold them to such other person; and
if Paulk had not taken the lands at $30,000, he should have
sold at that price to any one who offered it. So far, therefore,
as respects the motives of Black, and his own views of the
nature of the trarisaction, his testimony is in direct conflict with
the allegations in the bill. And so far as it tends to prove that
he did not sell the lands for less than he could have obtained
from others, but demanded and received -:he fair market price
for them, it is corroborated by every witness who has been examined concerning its value. Dwinal and George N. Black,
two of the complainants' witnesses, say $30,000 was a fair
price for the lands; and Addison Dodge, who is proved to be
a person of uncommon experience and judgment concerning the
timber lands of that country, and whose testimony was taken
by the defendants, explored these lands in 1843 for Black, and
reported to him that $30,000 was all theyWere worth; and he
testifies that this was his opinion, formed from a careful examination. Though Black does not so state, there can be no
doubt that he fixed this price in consequence of Dodge's report
to him;, for he employed Dodge to make the examination, and
he expresses, in his deposition, entire confidence in his skill and
integrity. It follows from this, as well as from what Black
directly testifies to, that the price at which the lands were
actually sold, was fixed as the fair market value of the lands,
for which Black, as an agent to sell, was willing to sell them to
any one, though he preferred to sell to the complainants, if no
one should offer more.
It is true Black at first demanded of Paulk $43,206 for these
lands. This was before the sale by Paulk to Davis, of the complainants' interests; and it has- been argued that as the lands
were actually obtained for $30,000, this proves that Davis was

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

279

Garrow et al. v. Davis et al.

benefited by the acquisition of the complainants' interest to the
extent of $13,000. If Davis, when he purchased the complainants' interests had been aware that Black asked $43,000 for the
lands, and had been willing to acquire the complainants' interest
to endeavor thereby to get them for a less sum, this would have
a tendency to prove that he was willing to give somewhere
about $43,000, and that any reduction, below that sum, might
be treated as the value of the complainants' interests. But it
is explicitly denied by the answers of Paulk and Davis, and
there is nothing in the case to control that denial, that Davis
knew when he negotiated with Paulk that Black asked $43,000
for the lands.
We think the fair result of the evidence is that Paulk concealed this fact from Davis, and that Davis believed he could
get the lands for one dollar per acre. So that he actually paid
the fair value and something more than he expected to pay.
Upon these facts we are unable to come to the conclusion
that.when the complainants parted with this expectancy of good
will from Black for $1,050, they received less than they could
have justly obtained; or that when Davis purchased, he got any
appreciable pecuniary advantage from representing the complainants.
Upon this ground, therefore, the case fails.
But inasmuch as there are charges of fraud contained in the
bill we think it proper briefly to examine them.
As respects the two defendants, McCrillis and Pickering, they
were not connected with the purchase from Paulk by Davis.
They came into the purchase subsequently, in the manner stated
in their answers, which it is unnecessary to detail, and there is
no evidence which tends to show that they were guilty of any
fraud.
In reference to Paulk and Davis, there are circumstances
-which, if unexplained, would certainly be fraught with much
suspicion, to say the least.
After the. sale by Paulk to Davis of the complainants' interests, Paulk continued to act in*the negotiation with Black,
and it is admitted that he received $1,500 from Davis. But
the explanation offered is that, from the necessity of the case,
Paulk'must continue to negotiate with Black as if for the complainants; that they understood he was t6 do so; that only in
this way could their expectancy of favor from Black be sold;
and that no contract was made or understanding had with
Davis by Paulk, save what appears on the face of the papers,
that Davis was to pay him for his services subsequent to the
assignment. That when Davis gave his notes to Black, the
latter required a surety, and the parties being at Ellsworth,

280

SUPREME COURT.
Garrow et al. v. Davis et aL

Davis for the first time requested Paulk to sign the notes.
That Paulk at first declined, saying he was insolvent, but at
last consented on being assured that Davis would pay him
what Pickering, a mutual friend, should say was proper, and
Pici- ring afterwards fixed the sum at $1,500 for all his services.
The answers of both Davis and Paulk, deny, with clearness and
precision, every charge of fraud, and especially negative the fact
that this payment of $1,500 had any connection with or influence upon the sale by Paulk to Davis of ihe complainants' interest. Their account of the matter may'be true. There is no
evidence to prove it is not so, and, grave a', the causes of suspicion may be, they are not sufficient to "overcome these precise
and clear statements in the answers.
The letters of Paulk to the complainant Miller and his failure
to give him notice of an inquiry by Black what -was the inost
they coiAd afford to pay, are relied on to show that Paulk kept
IMiller in ignorance of the material facts, and pressed him to a
sale in undue and unnecessary haste and -ith unfair intentions.
In his note of the 24th of October, 1844, Paulk tells Miller,
that "what is done with Col. Black must be done this w ek."
It does not appear affirmatively that Black had said so, and he.
does not remember saying so. But after the lapse of six years
he might have forgotten it, if hl did say so, and he testifies that
he does not recollect the particulars of the different conversalions with Paulk. But however this may be, the negotiations
actually went on until the 16th of November, before a sale was
made by Paulk, and upon learning from Miller that he thought
he could effect something by personally vis.ting Black, he wrote
to Miller informing him he had sold the bonds for $1,050, but
that he had obtained the consent of the purchasers to suspend
the transfer until the 25th of November; that they were not
willing to wait longer, Decause they desired to operate on the
lands the coming -winter, and in order to do so the matter
must be decided on"immediately; and he then strongly urges
Miller to come at once to Bangor, in season to avail himself of
the contract he had made, if he should find that to be most for
his infterest. This letter he sent to him by express to ensure its
reception in season.
This can hardly be reconciled with the charges in the bill, or
the deductions made by the complainants Aom some of the circumstances, that Paulk had unduly hastened the transfer, and
intended to keep Miller in the dark and to sell to Davis for less
than he might have obtained from another..
Upon consideration of the charges of fraud in the bill, and
the answers denying those charges, and the proofs ih the case,
we are of opinion that the complainants have failed to make

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

281

Mlagniac et al. v. Thomson.

out the fraudulent combination between Paulk and Davis which
they have alleged, and that upon this ground also the bill must
be dismissed.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maine, and was argued by counsel. On%
consideration whereof
it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

HOLLINGSWORTH M AGNIAC, DANIEL SMIITH A'AGNrAC, AND WILLIAU JARtDINE, LATE TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF MAGNIAC &
COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN M. THoMsoN.
A plaintiff in a judgment having the defendant in execution under a ia. sa., entered
into an agreement with him that the plaintiff should, without prejudice to his rights
and remedies against the defendant, permit him to be forthwith discharged from
custody under the process, and that the defendant should go to the next session of.
the Circuit Court of the United States and on the law side of that court make up
an issue with the plaintiff, to try the question whether the defendant was possessed
of the means, in or out of a certain marriage settlement, of satisfying the judgment
against him.
The debtor was released; the issue made up; the cause tried in the Circuit Court;
brought to this court, and reported in 7 Peters, 348.
By §uing out the ca. sa., taking the defendant into custody, entering into the arrangement above mentioned, and discharging the defendant from custody, the plaintiff,
in all legal intendment, admitted satisfaetion of his demand, released the defendant
from all liability therefor, and destroyed every effect of his judgment as the foundation of legal right'.
In such a state of things a court of equity will not interfere at the instance of the
plaintiff.
The allegation of fraud in the marriage contract is not sustained by the evidence;
nor was the refusal of the defendant to apply the property which accrued to him
upon the death of his wife, to the discharge of the debt, a violation of the agreement under which he was released.
The averment in the bill that the rights of the plaintiff under the judgment, remained
unimpaired, is incompatible with a right to resort to a court of equity.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, sitting as a court
of equity.
Magniac & Company) being English subjects, had two judg-

ments against Thomson, one in the Circuit Court of the United
States for Pennsylvania, in 1827, and the other in the Circuit
Court for New Jersey, in 1829.
24*

