DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

281

Mlagniac et al. v. Thomson.

out the fraudulent combination between Paulk and Davis which
they have alleged, and that upon this ground also the bill must
be dismissed.
The decree of the Circuit Court is affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Maine, and was argued by counsel. On%
consideration whereof
it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

HOLLINGSWORTH M AGNIAC, DANIEL SMIITH A'AGNrAC, AND WILLIAU JARtDINE, LATE TRADING UNDER THE FIRM OF MAGNIAC &
COMPANY, APPELLANTS, V. JOHN M. THoMsoN.
A plaintiff in a judgment having the defendant in execution under a ia. sa., entered
into an agreement with him that the plaintiff should, without prejudice to his rights
and remedies against the defendant, permit him to be forthwith discharged from
custody under the process, and that the defendant should go to the next session of.
the Circuit Court of the United States and on the law side of that court make up
an issue with the plaintiff, to try the question whether the defendant was possessed
of the means, in or out of a certain marriage settlement, of satisfying the judgment
against him.
The debtor was released; the issue made up; the cause tried in the Circuit Court;
brought to this court, and reported in 7 Peters, 348.
By §uing out the ca. sa., taking the defendant into custody, entering into the arrangement above mentioned, and discharging the defendant from custody, the plaintiff,
in all legal intendment, admitted satisfaetion of his demand, released the defendant
from all liability therefor, and destroyed every effect of his judgment as the foundation of legal right'.
In such a state of things a court of equity will not interfere at the instance of the
plaintiff.
The allegation of fraud in the marriage contract is not sustained by the evidence;
nor was the refusal of the defendant to apply the property which accrued to him
upon the death of his wife, to the discharge of the debt, a violation of the agreement under which he was released.
The averment in the bill that the rights of the plaintiff under the judgment, remained
unimpaired, is incompatible with a right to resort to a court of equity.

THis was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, sitting as a court
of equity.
Magniac & Company) being English subjects, had two judg-

ments against Thomson, one in the Circuit Court of the United
States for Pennsylvania, in 1827, and the other in the Circuit
Court for New Jersey, in 1829.
24*

282

SUPREME COURT.
Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

On the 1st April, 1829, the appellants sued out a writ of capias
ad satisfaciendum on the judgment in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania to April
session, 1829, to which the marshal, on the 8th April, 1830, returned wn est ipventus, and on the same day an alias capiasad
satisfaciendum was sued out to April session, 1830, Number 9,
to which on the 12th April, 1830, the marshal made return of
"C. C. and enlarged by agreement of plaintiff's attorney."
The appellee was discharged out of custcdy by the consent of
the plaintiffs in the judgment, under the following agreement, viz.
.1agniac v. Thomson. Wo. 18, Circuit Court of the United States,
tennsylvania District, October, 1826.
Defendant having been taken by ca. sa. in this suit, at his
instance it is agreed that he be set at liberty on giving security
to abide the event of an issue to be formed for ascertaining, by
judicial decision, whether he has the means, by the property in
his marriage settlement or otherwise, of satisfying the judgment,
which issue is to be formed by plaintiff's affirmance and defendant's denial of such means; both parties hereby consenting to
t-v such issue Qgt the ensuing session of the Circuit Court, of the
United States for this district, on the merits, without regard to
form or to the time when the jury may be summoned; it being
expressly acknowlbdged by defendant thc.t this agreement is
made for his accommodation, without any prejudice whatever
to arise to the plaintiff's rights by the defendant's enlargement
on security as aforesaid or otherwise howsoever.
JON R. TaomsoN.
April 8th, 1830.
I hereby become answerable for the performance of the terms
R. F. STOCKTON.
above stated, which I guarantee.
Witness, J. P. Nofris, Jr.
On the part of the .plaintiffs in this case, I hereby consent to
the defendant's enlargement on the terms stated in his within
proposition and agreement of this date.

9th April, 1830.

C. J. INGERSOLL, Attorney.

In pursuance of this agreement, a new suit was entered by
agreement on the 3d June, 1830, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of :Pennsylvania, in the
third circuit, by these appellants against the appellee, to try the
issue to be formed under the above agreement of the 9th April,
3830.
The case was tried and is reported in Baldwin's Reports, 344.
It resulted in a verdict for the defendant. Being brought to
this court upon a bill of exceptions, the judgment of the Circuit
Court was affirmed, as reported in 7 Peters, 348.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

283

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

The death of ir. Thomson's wife being supposed to place at
his disposal certain property which might be properly applied to
the payment of the judgment, Magniac & Co. applied for a rule
to show cause why a scirefacias should not issue to revive the
judgment. Thomson set up his arrest and discharge under the
ca. sa. as a legal satisfaction of the judgment. Mlagniac & Co.
then withdrew the rule and filed the present bill.
The substance of the bill is very fully stated in the opinion
of the court, and need not be repeated. The bill was demurred
to, and, upon argument, the Circuit Court sustained the demurrer and dismissed the bill.
The complainants appealed to this court.
The cause was argued here by 11r. E. lng ersoll and Mr. C.
Lig ersoll, for the appellants, and by 1r. ohn II. Read and Hr.
Cadwallader,for the appellee.
Only such of the points will be mentioned as are involved in
the opinion of the court.
Appellants' Points.
Constrnction of the Agreement of 8th of April, 1830. If the
meaning of this paper were less than is insisted by the plaintiff,
its last sentence, beginning "it being expressly acknowledged,"
would have been omitted altogether. That sentence is not
merely without purpose or sense, but is directly in the teeth of
the meaning of the parties to the' contract, if not intended to
bind the defendant by a promise to stand by the judgment after
the discharge as much as before. The words "or otherwise
howsoever," which the defendant supposes we rely upon, may
be rejected without injury to the plaintiffs. Such general words,
in the case of extremely formal papers, in which the meaning
of the parties is expressed at great lengh, might perhaps have
little force, but in a brief stipulation, such as this, drawn up in
haste, probably, and in order to an immediate and pressing object, they ought to have their full force and popular construction. They should be interpreted to signify that if by the -words
which precede them the plaintiff's interests under the judgment
are not fully guarded, the defendant shall give them protection
"otherwise howsoever." They amount to a covenant for further assurance.
The agreement, interpreted in any other way, leads to this
absurd conclusion, namely, that the plaintiff perilled his whole
debt without a motive, while the defendant obtained his enlargement from custody, giving no equivalent therefor.
If the plaintiff had refused all arrangement, and simply per-

SUPREME

COURT.

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

mitted the defendant to remain. in custody he would have
fesorted to the insolvent law of Pennsylvaria, or of the United
States. In the former case he must have given fuller security
than he gave under the agreezhent of 8th of April; 1830, and
there would have been a trial of the question whether the defendant was possessed of property, more advantageous to the
plaintiff than the trial in the federal court. In the latter case,
of. an application by the defendant under the United States
insolvent law of 1800, the plaintiff, had he succeeded in breaking the trust, would have got the whole trust property, and,
whether he failed or succeeded, would have had security of the
most binding sort in the custody of the defendant's person.
The plaintiff therefore gined nothing by the agreement, for it
is not pretended, on the other side, that he got any thing by it
if he did not get security of a superior character for his debt,
or a better tral of the question upon which it tuned. He simply, as expressed by the agreement, set the defendant at liberty
at the defendant's instance. He did an act of lindness, upon
the defendant's agreement that it should be without prejudice.
The defendant, on the other hand, acquired, first, his immediate liberty, which he could get only by agreement, and,
second, a trial of the question of property in the federal court;
a better trial for him than one in the Common Pleas, and much
better than under the insolvent law of 1800, because that would
have detained him in custody during the time the cause was
pending, which was about three years.
It is submitted, that to give any other interpretation to the
agreement would be to stultify the plaintiff, who dealt with
the defendant liberally enough, but did not go the length of
giving away his debt.
The question whether, under this agreement, the plaintiff
was entitled to a second ca. sa., is one which is without difficulty, the fact once established that the defendant has evaded
by fraud, or violated the agreement; for Baker v. Ridgway, (2
Bing. 41,) and other cases, are precedents for a second ca. sa.,
when the plaintiff has been fraudulently induced to discharge
from the first.
In Baker v. Ridgway, a commission of bankruptcy having been
stied out against a defendant in custody, under a ca. sa., the
plaintiff, in order to prove his debt, dischqrged defendant from
the execution. The commission having afterwards been superseded, plaintiff took defendant in executioa again. Defendant
moved for his discharge, but the plaintiff alleging that the commission had been fraudulently procured to. induce him to dis.
charge the defendant from the original ca. sa., the court refused
the motion, refetring it to a jury to try the question of fraud)

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

285

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

holding that if there were fraud in defendant's procurement of
discharge from the first ca. sa., the second was well issued.
Best, .f. J., says: "If there has been no fraud in the transaction, I am of opinion the defendant is entitled to his discharge;
if there has been fraud, we are all of opinion he is not so entitled. I have looked through all the cases on execution against
the person, from the earliest period down to the present time,
and I am aware of the great jealousy of the law on the subject
of personal restraint. I am aware that where a party had been
discharged on account of privilege of parliament, it was doubted
whether he could be retaken after that pyivilege expired, and
the interference of the legislature became necessary to sanction
such a proceeding; so, when he died in confinement, it was
doubted whether the creditor, having resorted to the highest
remedy the law afforded, could have any further means for the
recovery of his debt, though the debtor left property behind him:
that doubt was also set at rt by the authority of the legislature. I am therefore clea7, that where a commission of bankrupt is sued out against a party in execution, he not being privy
thereto, if the plaintiff abandons his execution and proceeds
against the effects of, the party, by proving his debt under the
commission, he has taken his chance, and though there should
be no assets forthcoming, the defendant is secure in his discharge. (However, I consider myself no more bound by an
opinion delivered in the present summary mode of treating the
question than I should be by an opinion delivered at nisiprius;)
but if, the debtor, in concert with others, procures a commission
of bankrupt to be sued out against him, or it is procured with
his approbation and consent, in order to entrap the plaintiff to
come in and prove his debt, and is then superseded for some
latent defect unknown to the plaintiff, that does not entitle the
debtor to his discharge ;- and if we were to hold otherwise, we
should violate a principle of law which has never been broken
in upon, namely, that a party shall not be allowed to take advantage of his own wrong. I say this, because in Jacques v.
Withey, though Ashhurst, J., says, II know of only one case
where a debtor in execution, who obtains his liberty, may afterwards be taken again for the same debt, and that is when he
has escaped, and the reason of that is, because he was not
legally out of custody, yet Butler, J., did not assent to the generality of the proposition thuslaid down by Ashhurst,J., andwished
to introduce qualifications. Indeed, even according to the proposition laid down by Ashhurst J., if this discharge has been
obtained by a fraudulent commission, and the plaintiff has afterwards been cheated by a supersedeas out of the benefit sought
by the proof of his debt, the defendant may be taken again,

286

SUPREME COURT.
Alagniac et al. v. Thomson.

because the fraud has avoided the whole transaction, and the
defendant has never been legally out of custody."
That it may be seen that under the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania a second ca. sa. would have issued against the defendant had he been defeated in the Insolvent Court upon the
question of the validity of the marriage settlement, the following extract is given from Ingraham on Insolvency, pp. 28, 29.
"cWhere, from any cause, the petitioner s refused the benefit
of a discharge, he must surrender himself to prison."
"Where a party gives bond and fails to comply with the
condition, either by not attending, in consequence of which his
petition is dismissed, or by not surrendering himself if the
prayer of his petition be not granted, another execution may be
issued against him ; and if he neglect to file his petition within
the time prescribed by law, the creditor is not obliged to wait
for the day of hearing, but may issue another execution the
moment he can legally ascertain the fact. The surety in the
bond would be liable, in such a case, notwithstanding the second execution, which would be no discharge of his responsibility, being for his benefit."
Also, with the same object, is quoted part of the syllabus of
Palethorpe v. Lesher, 2 Rawle, 272:
"Where a defendant in custody gives bond with surety to
take the benefit of the insolvent laws and forfeits his bond, a
second execution may be issued against him."
Section 1 of the United States insolvnt law of the 6th
of January, 1800, (2 Stat. at Large, 4, 5, 6,) shows that the
debtor remains in custody until his right to discharge is finally
decreed; and therefore that, had the defendant applied for the
benefit of this act, he must have lain in prison pending the
question of the validity of the settlement.
Assuming, then, our construction of the agreement to be the
true one, the next question is,
Whether the case is one for relief, On taie part of the plaintiff, the defendant's reasoning is not appreciated, whereby he
denies the plaintiff's right to relief under the head of fraud and
mistake. It is submitted, however, that, whatever may be the
appropriate term for his title to relief, the "principles and cases
found under these two heads of equity are directly applicable
to the facts before the court. And, knowing no other names
under which to classify those facts, the question of relief will
be considered under the two titles of fraud and mistake.
Fraud. If it were a case of mere breach of contract, as alleged by defendant, it would not be cognizable in equity. Nor
would it be cognizable in equity if it were a case of fraudulent
breach of contract, and not more, for even fraud is cognizable

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

at law unless there -be iri the case something to oust the juris-

diction.
If A purchase commodities of B, and do not pay for them,
this is a breach of contract cognizable at law. If A purchase
commodities of B, with the preconceived design not to pay for
them, afterwards carried into effect, this is a fraud as well as a
breach of contract, but does not entitle the party to relief in
equity.
But here is a case where there can be no relief at law, because (we assume for the sake of argument) the courts of law
have declared that a judgment is paid when the defendant is
taken under a ca. sa., and that even the defendant's own agree.
ment to the contrary shall not change the rule. That a de-,
fendant's conduct, in entering into such an agreement and then
violating it, is "scandalous," as the courts have termed it, but
that there is no remedy at law.
The fraud is palpable. The defendant is in custody. He
says to the plaintiff, the rule of law is, that if you discharge me
the judgment is satisfied; but I pledge myself that; as between
you and me, there shall be no such rule, and that if you will let
me go your judgment shall stand exactly as it did before your
ca. sa. was issued. This solemn agreement the defendaiit, having had the benefit of it, utterly violates. He declares the juidgment to be good for nothing, and the agreement good for nothing, and when the plaintiff takes proceedings at law he sets
them at defiance. That is,
having trepanned the plaintiff into
the bargain by means of a promise that he will not exact the
penalty of the position, he turns round and insists upon it.
The plaintiff then 'comes into equity. This case is like that
of a man who, holding a note fize years and eleven months old,
is told by the drawer to wait six weeks longer before he sues,,
and that the note shall be as good at six years old as it was before, and then, being refused payment, and having gone into
court, the defendant pleads the statute of limitation against
him. The case is like that of a plaintiff, in a judgment, who
enters satisfaction in order that the defendant- may be able to
make title to a certain portion of the real estate bound by the
judgment, the defendant having agreed in writing that the
satisfaction should be cancelled, and the lien of the judgment
restored, as to the rest of his real estdte, immediately after his
sale k~as effected, and then is told by the defendant, your judgment is gone, and you will never get another. Like the case
of one who, ha--ing given his receipt irifull, but without value,
to a debtor, in order that he might settle with a third person, is
turned upon by the debtor, and told that his debt is paid, and
here is the receipt for it. Like the case of an obligee who,

SUPREME

COURT.

Alagniac et al. v. Thomson.

having released one of two co-obligors, for the mutual purposes
of obligee and obligors, and, with the agreement that the discharge should be without prejudice as to the remaining obligor,
is informed by him, after the object of the discharge has been
accomplished and the advantages from it attained, that he does
not mean to hold himself liable after the release of his coobligor.
These are cases not distinguishable from that before the
court, and they are obviously for relief in Equity. They are all
cases in which a party has gained a fraudulent advantage of
another, which, not being relievable at law, will be relieved in
equity, unless something can be shown to -:he contrary.
It is pretended by the defendant here, to the contrary, that to
relieve under this agreement of 8th April, 1830, would be to
run counter to that policy which, favoring liberty of the person,
has refused to permit a second ca. sa. for the same debt. To
this the answers are:
1. The whole question of the liberty of the person, so far as
ca. sas affect it, is now at rest, for they have been abolished by
statute, and, thougli not abolished when this agreement was
entered into, they . 3re when the violation of it took place, and
the present question arose.
2. There are two cases to the point, that this rule concerning
the liberty of the person yields before proof of the defendant's
fraud in procuring his discharge. Baker v. Ridgway. 2 Bing.
41; 9 Moore, 114; Holbrook v. Champlin, 1 Hoff. C. R. 148.
3. On principle it would be strange, indeed, if that policy of
law and equity, and of all society which sets its face against
fraud, should give way before the so-called policy here invoked,
which amounts to nothing at all since arrest for debt has been
abolished, and which never did amount to more than a train of
unfortunate decisions, vhich, if they could be recalled, would
never be made again.
It is also pretended by the defendant, that to relieve the plaintiff would be to favor a stale claim.
(The counsel then proceeded to examine this branch of the
subject.)
Points for Appellee.
On the principal question of laN- involved in the case, the
position of the pppellee is that, by his relkase from imprisonment, on the 8th of April, 1830, the execution and judgment
against hini were satisfied, and the original debt wholly extinguished.
This position is the necessary result of the fundamental principles of English law on the subject of executions, their various

DECEM2BER TERM,

1853.

Mbagniac et al. v. Thomson.

sorts and relative effects. The whole doctrine of the common
law, as understood both in England and America, and as applicable to the present case, may be stated thus: The creditor,
by issuing a capias ad satisfaciendum, chooses the body of the
debtor in preference to his lands or goods, as the source of his
satisfaction. By making an arrest, he secures to himself the
satisfaction he has chosen, and is thereby estopped from resorting to any other mode of execution. As long as he holds the
body in custody, he is in the possession and receipt of a continuing satisfaction; and when, with his consent the body is released, he confesses that his satisfaction is complete, and the
debt for which he demanded it thereby extinguished; and if
the release is accompanied by any agreement with the debtor,
or third parties acting for him, such agreement (whatever may
be its terms) is a new and original contract, which can in no
way affect the completeness of the satisfaction previously received.
From a series of decisions upon these points, covering fun.
four centuries, it is belie-.d that only a single case can be cited
in conflict with the rule thus stated. As Blumfield's case, 5
Rep. 87, is much relied upon, it is proper to examine it at some
length. The statement of facts by Lord Coke is simply this:
"Two men were bound jointly and severally in a bond - one
was sued, condemned, and taken in execution, and afterwards
the other was sued, condemned, and taken in execution, and
afterwards the first escaped and thereupon the other brought
audita querela," Judgment was given against the prayer, and
the decision is undoubtedly clear law, and is perfectly in harmony with the principles above laid down. Lord Coke, however, in his annotation, cites the case of Jones and Williams,
(elsewhere unreported,) "where two men were condemned in
debt, and one was taken and died in execution, yet the taking
of the other was lawful." This case may also be very good
law, but makes nothing against the present appellee. Lord
Coke proceeds, "and then" (in Jones v. Williams) " it was
resolved by the whole court, that, if the defendant in debt
dies in execution, the plaintiff may have a new execution by
eleg-it or ft. fa. for divers reasons," which he goes on to enumerate. It is for this passage that the case has been often heretofore and is now cited, the value of the' authority being merely
this: that Lord Coke, in reporting a principal case, which is en-'
tirely with us, refers to an unreported case, which is also with
us, but in which there is a dictumr against us of which he appears to approve. But, whatever may have been its original
authority, this dictum has been repeatedly declared not to be
law. Blumfield's ease was argued in 39 Eliz., and published
.5
VOL. Xv.

SUPREME

COURT.

Mlagniac ei al. v. Thomson.

in 3 James, and must consequently have been well known in 4
James, when the case of Williams v. Cutteris, also cited as Cutter v. Lamb, was decided. Croke Jac. 1313. Yet, in the lastmentioned case, the defendant having died in execution, the
court held, that the plaintiff had no further remedy. In Foster v. Jackson, (Hobart, 52, 57,) where the same point arose,
Hobart, C. J., makes the same decision, and, in the course of an
elaborate opinion, approves the cases of Blumfield, and Jones
v. Williams, but condemns the dictum whic1h accompanies them.
Since then, in Sir Edward Coke's case, and in Cave v. Fleetwood, it was pronounced "not to be law ;" and in Taylor v.
Waters, where a similar point arose, and counsel urged its authority, it was wholly disregarded by the court. Godbolt, 294;
Littleton, 325; 5 Maule & S. 103. From that tine up to the
present, though similar questions have freq:aently z~lcn, it is believed that this citation has never been olfred to th. consideration of an English tribunal.
Having disposed of this dictum, we will proceed tt. examine,
in the first place, those cases in which it has been held, that the
release of a debtor in execution, by the plaintiff's consent, is
a satisfaction of the judgment and execution, and also an extinguishment of the debt.
The counsel then cited and commented upon the following
cases: Cro. Car. 75; Styles, 117, 387; 2 Mod. 136; Barnes's
Notes, 205; 4 Burr. 2482 ; 1 T. R. 557; 1. Bos. & Pul. 242;
6 T. R. 525; 7 Id. 420; 2 East, 9A3; 1 Barn. & Ald. 303; 2
Moore, 235; 6 Man. & Gr. 755; 4 Jur. 600; 11 Id. 800; Law
Com. Rep. 48 ; 15 Law Magazine, 132 - 3.
In all the above cases, the discharge was by the plaintiff's
consent, and it is believed that they establish incontrovertibly
the .position assumed, that every such discharge operates to
satisfy the judgment, the execution, and the original debt. It
remains, in the second place, to examine iato the effect of an
arrest and imprisonment upon a ca. sa. generally; the position
of the defendant being, that such an arrest and imprisonment,
if. regular, constitute a perfect satisfaction, so long as the imprisonment continues, and that the nature of the satisfaction
can only be impaired by an interruption of the imprisonment
through the tortious act of the defendant himself, or the operation of the law ir. invitum, as against the plaintiff.
In Year Book, 33 Hen. VI., it is said by Davers, "Suppose
a man recover against me, and take my bcdy in execution, he
shall have neither eleg'' nor fi. fa., nor any other execution, because this amounts, in. law to satisfaction." Page 48, 1455.
So, in 13 Hen. VIL, it is said by Keble, "If, on a ca. sa., the
sheriff return cepi carpus, the plaintiff shall never have' another

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

291

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

ca. sa., for he learns, from the return of the sheriff, that he was
in execution, and then he had the object of his suit." Page 1.
But perhaps the most carefully considered case on this-whole
subject is that of Foster v. Jackson, where the defendant died
in execution, and the plaintiff brought scire facias against his
executors. After examining Blumfield's case, and reviewing
the whole.subject at length, C. J. Hobart says, "But now singly
out of the very point, I hold that a capias ad satisfaciendum is
against that party as not only an execution, but a full satisfaction by force and act and judgment of law, so as against him
he can have no other, nor against his heirs or executors, for
these make but one person at law." And, in concluding, he
lays down the broad principle on which many of the decisions
already referred to are based, especially those where an agreement to surrender has been held to bevoid, "that the body of a
freeman cannot be made subject to distress or imprisonment by
contract, but only by judgment." Hobart, 52.
The law, as laid down in Foster v. Jackson, governed all
subsequent cases of death in execution, until parliament interfered, and, by the statute of 21 Jac. 1, c. 24, gave the creditor a
further remedy against the estate of the deceased. 1 Strange,
653; 8 T. R. 123; Ambler, 79; 5 laule & S. 73; 13 Ves. 193;
3 Mer. 224, 233-4-5; 20 L. J. Ch. 174; 15 Jur. 49; 13 Beav.
229; 1 Eng. L. & E. R. 146; 8 Dow. & Ry. 42.
The above cases not only sustain the position to which they
are cited, but they also prove that it is not merely a sharp point
of law, adhered to out of respect for ancient authority, but that
it has been treated at all times, both by judges and chancellors,
as a well-founded principle, to which a controlling force should
be given, in every case where it is either directly or collaterally
involved. The original debt has uniformly, and for all purposes
for which it has ever been attempted to be used, whether as a
set-off, the foundation of an assumpsit, or of a claim in bankruptcy, been held to be satisfied, and the judgment to be valueless.
It only remains, in the third place, to examine some particular cases, which are considered by the plaintiffs as exceptions
to the general rule, but which in reality go far to illustrate and
strengthen it.
1. Cases of escape. 'By the oldest authorities an eteape was
considered as effectual a discharge of the debt as a release, and
Blumfield's case-is the first decision to the contrary. Y. B. 33
Hen. VI. p. 47. The opposite doctrine was finally established
in Whiteacres v. Hamkinson, and the reason of it was given
by Ashhurst, J., in Jacques v. Withey: "I know of only one
case where a debtor in execution, who obtains his liberty,

292

SUPREME COURT.
Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

may afterwards be taken again for the same debt, and that is
where he has escaped; and the reason cf that is, because he
was hot legally out of custody." Sup. p. 11, 12. The result
of these cases then is, that where the prisoner has escaped of
his own wrong, although the satisfaction which the plaintiff
was receiving is temporarily interrupted ia fact, yet, in .intendment of law, the defendant is still in custody, and may be
retaken.
2. Cases of rescue, which depend upon t;he same principle as
those of an escape. The defendant was never, in contemplation
of law, out of custody. Jacques v. Withey, vt sup.
3. Arrest of privileged defendants. Th- arrest of a member
of parliament has, from the earliest times, been held irregular;
and it was occasionally doubted whether such an arrest, followed, as it necessarily was, by a discharge, either upon writ of
privilege, or without it, did not operate, like a release by consent,
as a total discharge of the debt. 1 Hatsell, 48; May's Practice.
of Parliament, 107, 113, 114; 2 Man. & Gr. 437,471; 1 Cr.
AL & R. 525; 5 Tyrrwhitt, 147; 10 Ad. & Ellis, 225; t Ad.
& El. N. S. 525; 2 Gale & Day. 473; Goclbolt, 327.
4. Cases of discharge from imprisonment by the lord's act,
&6. The discharge in these cases has alwrays been held to be
the act of the law, and not to imply any consent on the part of
the plaintiff. In compliance, therefore, with the old maxim, the
courts have taken care that this act of law'shall in no way injuriously affect the plaintiff's rights. Thus, in Nadin v. Baffle
et al. 5 East, 147, where two were in prison, and one was
discharged because of the plaintiff' refusal to pay the prison
charges, Lord Ellenborough, on an applicaion to discharge the
other, decided that "the discharge cannot be said to have been
with the plaintiff's assent, because he did not choose to detain
the party in prison at his own expense. Nor can the law, which
,works detriment to no -man, in consequence of having directed
the discharge of one defendant, so far'implicate the plaintiff's
consent against the fact, as to operate a, a discharge of the
other."
The same, as will be seen hereafter, has been the ruling of
the American courts, and for the same reasons here assigned.
5. Cases of debts payable by instalments. Where the judgment is to be satisfied by instalments, arfd execution is to issue
upon non-payment of any of the instalmeats, it is held that a
release from imprisonment upon one instalment with the plaintiff's consent, will not affect the remedy, or bar the execution
upon a second instalment. Davis v. Gompertz, 2 Nev. &
Man. 607. This is expressly upon the g:.ound that the two
executions are not for the same debt. Such was the principle

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

293

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

that governed the case of Atkinson v. Bayntun, which has been
relied upon as an authority against the appellee. 1 Bing. N. C.
444.
6. It may be proper, in this connection, to notice the case of
Baker v. Ridgway, which has also been cited against the appellee. 3 Bing. 41; S. C. 9 Moore, 114.
There, the defendant w-as in custody under a ca. sa.; a commission of bankruptcy was issued against him; the plaintiffs
were compelled, by the statute 49 Geo. III., c. 121, to discharge
him out of custody, before they could be admitted to prove
their debt under the commission; the commission was afterwards superseded on the ground of irregularity; and the
defendant was again arrested. Affidavits were submitted by
the plaintiffs, and relied on by the court, tending to prove that
the irregularity, by which the commission had been avoided,
was the result of fraudulent collusion between the debtor and a
portion of his creditors. This was a motion to discharge the
defendant, and enter satisfaction upon the judgment. The rule
was discharged.
Such being the facts, it does not seem that the case differs
materially from that of an escape. It was, in reality, an escape
effected by an abuse of the forms of law, and the same may be
said'of it, as Ashhurst, J., sad of Jacques v. Withey, "The defendant was never legally out of custody." At any rate, he
was never discharged by the consent of the plaintiff. That
these were the grounds of the court's opinion, may be seen
from many of the remarks reported by Bingham. Thus Best,

C. J.: "1If this discharge has been obtained by a fraudlulent
commission, and the plaintiff has-afterwards been cheated by a
supersedeas out of the benefit sought by the proof of his debt,
the defendant may be taken again, because the fraud has
avoided the whole transaction, and the defendant has never
been legally out of custody."
From all the cases, then, we draw the conclusion that the
English law is, and has been for more than four centuries, that
the writ of ca. sa. is the highest sort of execution known; that
it is capable of affording the plaintiff complete and'absolute
satisfaction; and that its execution will satisfy the judgment
and extinguish the debt, unless this its regular legal effect be
avoided by some after contingency. The only after contingencies, whether existing at common law, or provided for by
statute, which are allowed to havp this effect are, an escape by
the defendant's own wrong, or effected by his actual fraud; a
rescue; an avoidance of the writ for irregularity; an enlargement of the prisoner by act of law; or (since the 21st Jac. 1) his
death in execution. Upon the happening of any of these con25 *

294

SUPREME COURT.
MIagniac et al. v. Thomson.

tingencies, the plaintiff having been deprived, without his own
default, of the complete satisfaction to which his writ entitled
him, the law -will supply him with other means of enforcing it.
If, however, after the execution of the writ, the plaintiff voluntarily consent to the discharge of the defendant from custody,
while by such execution and discharge the judgment is satisfied
and, the debt extinguished at law, so the plaintiff's consent
operates further as a confession of such satisfaction, and if
properly presented to the court, will be entered of record on the
roll. The poli'y of the law, moreover, prohibits the defendant
from entering into any agreement by which the judgment or
debt, upon which he is in custody, shall, for any purpose whatevery be made to survive his release, and prbnounces all such
agreements null and void. Nevertheless, the discharge of the
defendant shall be a good consideration for an originll and
independent contract, which, if afterwards violated, may be enforced by new proceedihgs. This last rule avoids the hardship
to which creditors might otherwise, even against their inclination, be compelled to subject their imprisoned debtors, who are
unable to liquidate. their debt by actual payment, but can give
satisfactory security in consideration of a d:.scharge. Archbold's
New Com. Law Pr. p. 257, Ed. 1853; Sewell on Sheriffs, 198.
We have next to ascertain whether the American courts have
adhered to the doctrines of the common .[aw as expounded in
England.
The precise question as to the effect of the voluntary discharge
of the debtor from custody, has, it is believed, never been decided by this court. But, in two cases, the nature of the writ of
ca. sa. has been incidentally discussed, so far as it bore collate.
rally upon points then before the court. It was only necessary,
therefore, tQ enter into the subject, and to press the conclusions far 'enough to meet the particular question presented.
Thus, in the United States v. Stansbury, 1 Peters, 573, the
question btfore-C. J. Marshall was,_Nvhethcr the rights of a par-.
ticular debtor were to be governed by the common law or by
an act of Congress. Having decided in favor of the latter position, he waives all argument upon the cormon law, and intro.
duces his opinion by stating it in a form that-was unquestioned
on either side. "It is not denied, that at common law, the release of a debtor whose person is in execution, is a release of
the judgment itself. Yet .thebody is not satisfaction in reality,
but is held as the .surest means of coercing satisfaction. The
law will not permit a man to proceed at the same time against
the person and estate of his debtor; and when the creditor has
elected to take the person, it presumes satisfaction, if the person
be voluntarily released. The release of the judgment is therefore

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

295

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

the legal consequence of the voluntary discharge of the person
by the creditor."
So, in the case of Snead v. M'Coull, 12 How. 407, the question was, whether a creditor's lien upon the lands of his debtor
could survive the execution of a ca. sa. upon his person. Judge
Daniel, delivering the opinion of the court, after showing that
no lien on lands carl be of superior binding force to that of an
elegit, the capacity to issue which never survives a fully executed ca. sa., incidentally alludes to the nature of this latter writ,
and the effect of a plaintiff's voluntary releasing a defendant
who is in custody under it. In so doing, he cites at length the
strong language of the Lord Chancellor in Ex parte Knowell,
sup. 23, and refers to the leading cases of Vigers v. Aldrich,
Tanner v. Hague, and Blackburn v. Stupart
But, in the United States v. Watkins, 4 Cranch. C. C. R. 271,
the whole subject was fairly brought before the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Columbia, and C. J.
Cranch, in the course of a most learned opinion, in which almost every English authority is examined, fully sustains all the
positions taken by the appellee as to the English law, recognizes
them as forming part of the law of Maryland, and therefore
binding in the District of Columbia.
Since this decision, the case of Harden v. Campbell, 4 Gill,
29, has been adjudicated in Maryland, and C. J. Martin fully
sustains the conclusions arrived at by C. J. Cranch.
The counsel then commented upon the following American
cases: - 2 Leigh, 361 - 7; 5 Leigh, 186 ; 6 Mass. 58 ; 16 Mass.
63; 3 Cush. 463; 16 Law Reporter, 629; 1 Chipman, 151; 1
R. L Rep. 143; 5 Johns. 364; 1 Cowen, 56; 8 Cowen, 171;
9 Cowen 128; 2 South. 508, 799; 2 Green, 102; 10 Ohio, 362;
6 Blackf. 36; 3 MICord, 165; 4 Dallas, 214; 3 Serg. & R. 463.
In Pennsylvania the statute of 21 James 1, ch. 24, for the relief of creditors against such persons as die in executiofi, was
reported by the Judges to be in force, but not the statute of 1
James 1, ch. 13, relative to privilege of parliament, nor that of
8 & 9 William 3, ch. 27, s. 7, where in case a prisoner escapes,
it is provided he may be retaken on a new capias.
This law was altered by the 31st section of the act of 16th
June, 1836, which enacted that "a judgment shall not be deemed to be satisfied by the arrest or imprisohment of the defendant upon a capias ad satisfaciendum,if such'defendant die in
prison, or escape, or be discharged therefrom by reason of any
privilege, "or at his own request;" but the party entitled to the
benefit of the judgment may have such remedies at law for the
recovery thereof as he would have been entitled to if such capias
ad satisfaciendunt had not been issued: saving nevertheless all

SUPREME

COURT.

Maganac et al. v. Thomson.

rights and interests which may have accrued to any other person
between the execution of such writ and the death or escape of
such party."
This section was taken from the 32d section of the bill reported by the revisers of the civil code on the 4th of January,
1836, but the words in italics, "or at his own request," were
-inserted by the legislature.
The section as reported by the revisers, is stated by them to
be "derived from the statutes 1 Jac. 1, c. 13; 21 Jac. 1, c. 24;
and 8 & 9 William 3, c. 27, sect. 7."
The case of Jackson v. Knight, 4 Wattzs & S. 412, decided in
1842, occurred after the passage of the -act of Assembly, and
was governed by the 31st section of the act of 16th June, 1836.
The agreement to discharge the defendant from imprisonment
was dated 10th October, 1840, and on the argument the counsel
for the plaintiff in error cited the said 31st section.
Ar. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The appellants, by their bill in the Circuit Court, alleged that,
being creditors of the appellee in a very la:ge amount of money
previously lent and advanced to him, they, in the year 1828, instituted their action for its recovery on the law side of the court,
when it was agreed, by writing filed of record, that a judgment
should be entered against the appellee as of the 26th of November, 1827, in favor of the appellants, for the sum of $22,191.71.
That this judgment, with a large accumulation of interest, remained unappealed from and unsatisfied, either in whQle or in
part. That the appellants, after obtaining this judgment, beieking that the appellee was possessed of concealed means of
satisfying it, and especially that when in a state of insolvency,
and with a view of defeating his creditors, b- had settled upon
his -xife a large amount of property, -and,as afterwards appeared,
made transfers of property to her between the date of the judgment and of the execution thereon, they st.ed out upon the said
judgment a writ of capias ad satisfaciendum, returnable to the
April term of the court, 1830, and in virtue of that process
caused to be taken into actual custody the body of the appellee.
That under the exigency of this process and arrest, the appellee
would have been compelled to continue in close confinement,
or could have obtained his release therefrom solely by the laws
of Pennsylvania passed for the relief of insolvent debtors, which
laws would have exacted of the appellee an assignment to his
creditors of all estate, property, or interests whatsoever, held by
himself or by others for him, or unlawfully settled upon his

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

297

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

wife; and would have conferred upon him only an immunity
against further bodily restraint by reason of the non-payment
of such debts as were due and owing from him at the date of
such proceedings in insolvency; but that the appellee, being at
the time of his arrest a citizen of the State of New Jersey, could
not have been admitted to the benefits of the insolvent laws of
Pennsylvania until after remaining three months in actual confinement under the writ of capias ad satisfaciend'm.
That on the 19th of November, 1825, a marriage contract
was executed between the appellee and Annis Stockton, his
intended wife, and Richard Stockton, °the father of said Annis,
by which agreement the said Richard Stockton was invested
with a large amount of real and personal property in trust for
the benefit of the appellee and his intended wife during their
joint lives, and if the said appellee should survive his intended
wife and have issue by her, in trust for his benefit and for the
maintenance and support of his family, and if there should be
no child or children of the said marriage, then after the- death
of the husband or wife, in trust to convey the property to the
survivor in fee-simple.
That the appellee being arrested and in actual custody undex
tile capias ad satisfacifrdur , sued out as aforesaid, it was then
and there agreed in writing between the appellants and the appellee, that the former should, without prejudice to their rights
and remedio against the latter, permit him to be fonthwith
discharged from custody under the said process, and that the
appellee should go to the next session of the Circuit Court of
the United States for the Eastern District of PennSylvania, and
on She law side of that court make up an issue with the appellants, to try the question whether the appellee was possessed of
the means, either in or out of the marriage settlement, of satisfying the judgment against him; the said issue to be tiied
without regard to form, or to the time when the jury for the
trial thereof should be summoned, the appellee also giving security to abide the result of the trial of said issue. That upon the
execution of this agreement, the appellee was released. from
custody, and the marshal for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, to whom the writ of capiasad respondendun was directed,
made a return upon the -rit that he had taken the body of the
appellee into custody, and that he had been discharged by the
consent and'direction of the appellants. That the trial of the
issue, Which was provided for in the said agreement, actually took
place, and resulted in a verdict by which, so far as concerned
the purposes of the said trial, it was found that the appellee
had not the means, either in or out of the said marriage settlement, of satisfying the judgment of the- appellants.

298

SUPREME COURT.
Magniac et al. v. Thom.on.

The bill alleges that by the force and bTect of the agreement
in writing and of the proceedings in pursuance thereof, the appellee obtained no farther or other right or advantage, than a
present discharge from close custody, and the, judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction that he -was then possessed of
no means, whether in or out of the said. marriage settlement,
wherewith to satisfy the judgment of the appellants. It farther
states, that since the judgment upon the issue made up and
tried as aforesaid, the wife of the appellee had died without
issue, and in consequence of that fact, all estate and property
vested in the trustee by the marriage sett:ement, and found by
the issue tried as aforesaid to be then protected thereby from
the creditors of the appellee, had become the absolute property
and estate of the appellee, and had either by the original trustee
in the marriage settlement or by his successor, been conveyed
and delivered over to the appellee as hi, own estate and property, free and clear of any trust whatsoever.
That the trust created by the marriage settlement, and by
which the above property comprised therein was adjudged to be
protected against creditors, having expired by its own limitation,
that property had become liable to the creditors of the appellee,
who was bound to a full account of the value thereof and for
the satisfaction of the rights and demands of the appellants out
of the same. That the appellants had accordirigly applied to
the appellee for payment of their judgment, to be made out of
the property comprised in and protected by the marriage settlement or out of any other resources at his command, but had
been met by a refusal on the part of the appellee, founded not
upon his inability to satisfy the just claim of the appellants for
money actally loaned, but upon an alleged exemption from all
liability resulting from the facts of his having been once arrested
under a capias ad satisfaciendumn, and subsequently released
from custody by consent of the appellants. The bill alleges
this refusal, and the foundation on which it is placed, to be in
direct violation of the written agreement, which explicitly declared that it was made for the accommodation of the appellee,
and without any prejudice whatever to arise to the plaintiffs'
(the appellants') rights, by the defendant's (the appellee's) enlargement. It charges the refusal and objection now interposed
to be fraudulent, and made in bad faith, E.nd as such, though it
might avail at law to embarrass or prevent the enforcement of
the judgment of the appellants, yet that a court of equity should
prohibit a resort thereto on account of its unconscientious and
fraudulent character. The bill concludes with a prayer, that
the appellee may be enjoined from setting up, as a discharge
from the judgment against him, his releak.e from custody under

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

299

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.
the circumstances of the case set'forth; that an account may be
taken of the several subjects of property comprised in the mar.:
riage settlement, and of the rents, profits, interest, and dividends
accruing therefrom, since the death of thewife of the appellee;
that satisfaction out of those subjects, of the judgment and
claim of the appellants may be decreed: the bill seeks also for
general relief.
To this bill the appellee (the defendant in the Circuit Court)
demurred, assigning, for causes of demurrer, that if the taking
into custody of the body of the defendant under the capias ad
satisfacienduntwas a legal discharge of the alleged debt, the
complainants are not relievable in equity from the effect thereof
for or by reason of any act, matter, or thing in the bill alleged;
and if the taking into custody was not such a legal discharge,
then th complainants have full, adequate, and complete remedy
at law; and farther that the taking into custody under the said
writ was and is to be deemed to have been a discharge and extinction of the judgment of the plaintiffs at law, and a discharge
and extinction as well at law as in equity of the debt for which
the same was obtained; and the cause coming on to be heard
upon the demurrer, the court by its decree sustained the demurrer and dismissed the complainants' bill with costs.
The correctness, or incorrectness of the decree thus pronounced, are now the subjects of our consideratiom.
Extensive or varied as may be the range of inquiry presented
by the bill with respect to what is therein averred to appertain
to the merits of this controversy, or to the character of the acts
of the parties thereto, the view and the action of this court.in
relation to that cause must be narrowed necessarily to the questions of law arising upon the demurrer. In approaching these
questions there may be propounded as postulates or legal truisms,
admitting of no dispute, the following propositions:
1. That wher'ever the rights or the situation of parties are
clearly defined and established by law, equity has no power to
change or unsettle those rights or that situation, but in all such
instances the maxim eqzitas sequitur legem. is strictly applicable.
2. That wherever there exists at law a complete and adequate
power, either for the prosecution of a-rigit or the iedressing of a
wrong, courts of equity, with the exception of a few cases of
concurrent authority, have no jurisdiction or power to act.
To the test of these rules the case before us, in common with
every appeal to equity, khould be brought; and if thd effect of
such test should prove to be adverse, that effect should e "sought
in the character of the appeal itself, and not in objections to
maxims which judicial experience and wisdom have long established. Recurring now to the history of this cause, let us in-

300

SUPRE31E COURT.
Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

quire what was the precise situation of the parties, what their
legal rights and responsibilities at the date of the judgment and
arising therefrom, what have been their acts and proceedings
subsequently to that judgment, and the consequences flowing
from their acts to their previous relative position. Upon the
recovery of their judgments the appellants had their election of
any of the modes of final process known Io the courts of law, or
they might in equity have impeached the marriage settlement
for any vice inherent in its consideration, or for an attempt
fraudulently to interpose that settlement between the appellants'
judgment and its legal satisfaction. But in their election of
any of the forms of final process, the appellants must be held to
have known the nature of that process, and the consequences
incident to its choice and consummation. To permit an ignorance of these, or in other words an ignorance of the law, to. be
alleged as the foundation of rights, or in excuse for omissions
of duty, or for the privation of rights in others, would lead to
the most serious mischief, and would disturb the entire fabric
of social order. In choosing the writ of calias ad satisfaciendum,
theref6re, for the enforcement of their ju67gment, the appellants
can derive no benefit from a presumption of ignorance or misapprehension as to the effects of calling into activity this severest and sternest attribute of the law. Such a presumption is
wholly inadmissible. They must be affected with knowledge
of whatever has been settled as to the nature of this writ, and
of whatever regularly follows a resort to its use. They were
bound to know, 1st, that the service of a capias ad satisfaciendum, by taking into custody the body of the debtor, operates a
satisfaction of the debt; and for that reason deprives the creditor -of all recourse to the lands, or chattels, or property of any
description belonging to his debtor. For :a doctrine well settled
and familiar as is that, it may appear superfluous to cite authorities; but we may refer to some of these; commencing with the
early cases of Foster v. Jackson, Hob. 52; 'Williams and Criteris,
Cro,. Jac. 136, and Rolle's Abr. 903; and coming down through the
more modern authorities of Mr. Justice Blackstone's Commentaries, vol. 3, p. 415; 4 Burrow, 2482; 1 T. R. 557; 2 East,
43, and 13 Ves. 193. To these cases might be added many
* decisions in the courts both of England and in the different
States of this country; sad, as conclusive of the same doctrine, in
this court the case of Snead v. I'Coull, 12 Howard, 407. So unbending and stringent was the application of the doctrine maintained by the earlier cases, that prior to the statute of 21st Jac.
1, cap, 24, the death of a debtor whilst charged in execution, an
event which rendered the process absolutely unvailable to the
creditor, deprived the latter nevertheless of a right to a farther

DECEMtBER TERM, 1853.

301

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

execution; the jealouy of the common law denying to him any
power beyond that he had exerted in the privation of the personal liberty of the debtor. The statute of James authorized the
exception of the death of the debtor to this inhibition of the
common law, and to this exception has been added the instances
of escape or rescue, seemingly upon the ground that in these instances the debtor should not be regarded as legally 'out of custody. The taking of the body under a capiasad satisfaciendum
being thus held the complete and highest satisfaction of the
judgment, it would follow ex consequenti, that a discharge of the
debtor by the creditor would imply an acknowledgment of such
satisfaction, or at any rate would take from that judgment the
character of a warrant for resorting to this highest satisfaction in
repeated instances for the same demand. But the authorities
have not stopped short at a mere technical restraint upon the
creditor who may seek to repeat the arrest of the debtor whom
he once had in confinement; they have gone the length of declaring, that if a person taken on a capias ad respondendum was
discharged, the plaintiff had no farther remedy, because he had
determined the choice by this kind of execution, which, affecting
a man's liberty, is esteemed the highest and most rigid in the
law. See the cases from Hobart, Croke Jac. and Rolle's Abr. before cited. Again it has been ruled that if the plaintiff consent to
the defendant being discharged out of execution, though upon
an agreement,, he cannot afterwards retake him although the
security given by the defendant on his discharge should be set
aside. 4 Burr. 2482; 1 T. R. 557; 2 East, 243; and the Lord
Chancellor, in 13 Yes. 193, uses this explicit language, "It is
clear, that by taking the body in execution, the debt is satisfied
to all intents and purposes."
Many American cases may be avouched in support of the
same doctrine. In the case of the United States v. Stansbury,
1 Peters, 573, Chief Justice Marshall says, " It is not denied
that at common law the release of a debtor 'whose person is
in execution,' is a release of the judgment itself. The law will
not permit a man to proceed at the same time against the
person and estate of his debtor; and when the creditor has
elected to take the person, it presumes satisfaction if the person
be voluntarily released. The release of the judgment is, therefore, the legal consequence of the voluntary release of the
persoti by the creditor."
In the case of Wrendrum v. Parker, 2 Leigh, 361, it is said
by Carr, J., that the "levy of a ca. sa. and the release of the
debtor from execution by the plaintiff or his agent, is an extinguishment of the debt, I have considered as well settled as
any point can be by an unbroken series of decisions." And in
VOL. xv.

26

SUPREME

COURT.

Al'agniac et al. v. Thomson.

the case of Noyes v. Cooper, 5 Leigh, 186, Brockenbrough,
J., says, ,"It has been undoubtedly established by a series of
decisions, that where a defendant in execution has been discharged from imprisonment by direction or with the consent of
the plaintiff, no action will ever again lie on the judgment,
nor can any new execution issue on that jrudgment, even though
the defendant was discharged on an express understanding that
he should be liable again to be taken in execution on his failure
to bomply with the terms on which the discharge took place."
Upon a collation of the authorities applicable to the acts and
proceedings of the parties to this controversy at the time, and
subsequently to the judgment in favor of the appellants against
the appellee, we are led to the following conclusions, viz.: that
by suing out a capias ad satisfacienduni upon their judgment,
and by taking into actual custody the lZody of the appellee
under this process, the appellants had obtained that complete
and highest satisfaction of their demand, of which they could
be deprived only by the 'act of God, by operation of law, or by
their own voluntary acknowledgment, or by a release of their
debtor; that by entering into the arrangement stated in the bill,
and by discharging the appellee from custody, the appellants
have, in all legal intendment, admitted satisfaction of their
demand, released the appellee from all 1 ability therefor, and
destroyed every effect of their judgment as the foundation
of legal rights. Such being our conclusions upon this branch
of the case, and the same conclusions being implied in the
application of the appellants for equitable interposition, the
inquiry here presents itself, whether a coxrt of equity can be
called upon to abrogate or impair or in any manner or degree,
to interfere with clear, asoertained, and perfect legal rights ? The
simple statement of such an inquiry suggests this ready and
only correct reply:
Equity may be invoked to aid in the completion of a just
but imperfect legal title, or to prevent the successful assertion
of an unconscientious and incomplete legal advantage; but to
abrogate or to assail a perfect and independent legal right, it
can have no pretension. In all such instanzes, equity must follow, or in other words, be subordinate to the law. With the
view doubtless of giving color to their application, the appellants have intimated (for they can hardly be said to have
charged it positively and directly) that the marriage settlement
of the appellee was made in fraud of his creditors, and they
have directly averred that the refusal of the appellee after the
death of his wife to apply the property comprised in that settlement, in satisfaction of the judgment of the appellants, was at
once fraudulent, and in direct violation of the agreement in

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

303

Magniac et al. v. Thomson.

pursuance of which the appellee was discharged from custody.
With respect to each of these allegations, however, the appellants are entirely deficient in their proofs, and in the latter, the
statement does not accord with the document, that is, the written agreement between the parties on which this averment is
founded. No evidence seems to have been adduced upon the
trial which took place in pursuance of the agreement, to impeach the fairness of the marriage contract; and the absence
of any attempt to establish its unfairness, together -with the
charge of the court to the jury, would seem to exclude the existence, or at that time the belief of the existence, of fraud in the
settlement. The agreement entered into at the time of the appellee's release from custody contains no stipulation that he
would hold himself liable to another execution dependent on
the event that the issue contemplated by that agreement, or that
he would consider the judgment as still in full force against
him. And if there had been a stipulation of the kind, we have
seen that it could not have averted the consequences flowing
from the discharge of the appellee from custody; but the only
conditions for which the appellee covenanted were that he would
make up and try the issue proposed and would abide the resut of
the trial; with both of which conditions the appellee has literally
complied. This charge of fraud then, even if it could in any
aspect of this question have been available, is entirely unsustained.
With regard to the question raised by the demurrer as to the
obligation of the appellants to pursue their remedy at law, under
the allegation in the bill, that such legal remedy had been
reserved to them by the terms of the agreement, there can be no
doubt, upon the supposition that this remedy remained unimpaired, that the appellants could not arbitrarily abandon' it, and
seek the interposition of equity in a matter purely legal. The
averment therefore by the appellants of the continuation of
their judgment, and of their right to enforce it by execution in
all their original force and integrity, is wholly irreconcilable
with any known head or principle of equity jurisdiction, and
their bill is essentially obnoxious to objection on that account.
We are of the opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court,
sustaining the demurrer to the bill of the appellants, (the complainants in the Circuit Court,) is correct, and ought to be, as it
is, hereby affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On

804

SUPREME COURT.
Curran v. State of Arkansas at al.

consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

JAmES N. CURRAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. THE STATE OF ARKANSAS, THE BANK OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS, JOHN A. Ross,
FINANCIAL RECEIVER, AND DAVID
NEY.

WV.

CARROL, BANK ATTOR-

In 1836, the Legislature of Arkansas incorporated a bank with the usual banking powers of discount, deposit, and circulation, the State being the sole stockholder.
The bank.went into operation, and issued bills in the usual form, but in November,
1839, suspended specie payments.
Afterwards, the legislature passed several acts of the following description:
1843, January, continuing the corporate existence of tie bank, and subjecting its
affairs -to the management of a financial receiver and an attorney, who were directed to cancel certain bonds of the State, held by the benk. for modney borrowed by
the State, and reduce the State's capital in. the bank by an equal amount.
1843, February, directing the officers to transfer to the Stare a certain amount of specie,
for the purpose of paving the members of the legislature.
1845, January, requiring the officers to receive the bonds of the State which had been
issued as part of the cap'tal of the bank in payment for debts due to the bank.
1845 January, another ac, taking away certain specie and par funds for the purpose
of paying members of: e legislature, and placing other funds to the credit of the
State, subject to be drawn out by appropriation.
1846, vesting in the State all titles to real estate or other property taken by the bank
in paypent for debts due to -it.
1849, requiring the officers to receive, in payment ofdebts due to the bank, not only
the bonds of the State, which had been issued to constitut tie capital of the bank,
but those also which had been issued to constitute the capital of other banking carporations which were then insolvent.
U n general principles of law a creditbr of an insolvent; corporation can pursue its
assets into the hands of all other persons except toad fide creditors or purchasers,
and-there is nothing in the character of the parties in the present eae or in the laws
transferring the property, to make it an exception to ths general rule. For the Supreme court of Arkansas has decided thqt the State car be sued in this case.
The bills of the bank being payable on demand, there was a contract with the holder
to pay them; and these laws, which withdrew the assets of the bank into a different
channel, impaired the obligation of this contract.
Nor does the repeal or modification of the charter of the bank by the legislature prevent this conclusion from being drawn. But in this czse the charter of ihe bank
has never been repealed..
Besides the contract between the bill-holder and the haul:, there was a contract between the bill-holder and the State, which had placed funds in the bank for the purpose of paving its debts, and which had no right to wihdraw those funds after the
right of a creditor to them had accrued.
The State had no right to pass these laws, under the circurastances, either as a creditor
of the bank or as a trustee taking possession of the real estate for the benefit of all
the creditors.
The several laws examined.
The Supreme Court of the State held these laws to be valid, and consequently the
jurisdiction of this court attaches under the 25th section of the judiciary act.

THIS case was brought up from the Supreme Court of Arkansas, by a writ of error issued under tha 25th section of the
judiciary act

