DECEMBER

TERI,

1853.

31

United States v. Roselius et al.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. CHRISTIAN ROSELIUS,
ABIAL D. CROSSMAN, WILLIAM E. LIVERIDGE, FRANCOIS B.
D'AUTUIN, BENJAMIIN C. HOWARD, JOHN SPEAR SMIT.H, BRANTZ
MAYER, JOHN GIBSON, AND R. R. GURLEY, EXECUTORS OF

JOHN McDONoGH, DECEASED.
Under the laws of 1824 and 1844, relating to the confirmation of land titles, where a
claimant filed his petition, alleging a patent under the French government of
Louisiana, confirmed by Congress, and claiming floats for laud which had been
sold, within his grant, by the United States to other persons, the mere circumstance, that the court had jurisdiction to decree floats in cases of incomplete titles,
did not give it jurisdiction to decree floats in cases of complete titles.
This title having been confirmed by Congressi without any allowance for the sales of
lands included within it, the confirmation must be considered as a compromise
accepted by the other party who thereby relinquished his claim to floats.
If the title be considerecd as a perfect title, this court has already adjldged (9 How.
143) that the District Court had no jurisdiction over such titles.
The claimant in this case prayed that the side lines of his tract might be widened by
diverging instead of parallel lines; but this court, in this same case, formerly
(3 How. 693) recognized the validity of a decree of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, which decided that the lines should be parallel and not divergent. The District Court of the United States ought to have conformed its judgment to this
opinion.
Moreover, the claimant in this case did not state in his petition what lands had been
granted by the United States, nor to whom, nor did he make the grantees parties;
all of which ought to have been done before he could have been entitled to floats.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 111r. Cushing, (Attorney-General,) for the
United States, who made the following points:
I. That the grant under which the claim is made being a
complete and perfect grant, the court below had no jurisdiction.
II. That if the court had jurisdiction the grant is void, having been made by the French authorities subsequent to the
treaty of Fontainbleau of 3d November, 1762, by which France
ceded Louisiana to Spain, and the order of delivery, dated 21st
April, 1764. 1 Clark's Land Laws, Appendix, 976; Montault
v. United States, 12 How. 47; United States v. Pellerin, 13
How. 9.
III. That the Spanish authorities after the cession did not
confirm or recognize the said grant as valid.
The proceedings before Livaudais did not operate as a confirmation. Under the Spanish rule, the authority over the lands
was vested first in the governors of the province. See the
Marquis of Grimaldi's Letter to Unzaga, of 24th August, 1770;
2 White's Recop. 460. The authority was subsequently vested

32

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Roselius ,*t al.

in the intendant. See the royal order of 22d October, 1798;
Ibid. 477-478. The certificates of Trudeau were not sufficient
evidence to show that Governor Miro had confirmed or recognized the grant as valid.
Under the acts of 1824 and 1844, the District Court had no
power to act, except in cases of claims under grants, concessions, warrants, or orders of survey.
V. With respect to the allegation in the petition, that the
grant has been confirmed by an act of Congress of 11th January, 1820. Whether this be so or not cannot arise in this case,
the jurisdiction of the court under the act; of 1824, as revived
by that of 1844, being limited to incomplete claims originating
with the Spanish, French, or British authorities, which might
have been perfected into a complete title under and in conformity to the laws, usages, and customs of the government under
which the same originated, had not the sovereignty of the
country been transferred to the United States. Act of 1824;
4 Stat. at Large, 52; Act of 1844; Ibid. 676.
VI. But as the petition claims opening and diverging side
lines from the front to the rear, and avers that a large portion
of the land had been sold by the United States, and claimed
floats therefo, and the court below has decreed in favor of the
claimant on both points, it may be that the object of the petition was to have these points determined under the grant.
With respect to the first, there is nothing in the grant which
calls for diverging side lines, and when this is the case, the side
lines run parallel to each other. That the side lines in this
grant run parallel was decided in the Supreme Court of Louisiana, in McDonogh v. Millaudon, which will be found reported
in 3 How. 693.
As to the claim for floats, no individuals claiming lands
under title from the United States having been made parties in
the case, no decree for floats could be made. United States v.
Moore, 12 How. 209
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
John McDonogh claimed to be confirmed in a tract of land
ont being 40 arbounded in part by the river Mississippi; th
pens more or less; bounded on the upper side, by a line run.
ning back from said river a distance of seventeen miles, and two
hundred and twenty-seven perches, more or less, until it strikes
the river Amitie, on a course by compass of north 35' west; on
the lower side, by a line running back frm said river Mississippi a distance of eighteen miles and twenty-two perches,
more or less, until it strikes lake Maurepa., on a course by the
c6mpass of north nine degrees fifty minutes) east; and bounded
on the rear lite by the river Amitie and lake Maurepas.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

33

United States v. Rosclius et al.
The petitioner represents that in the year 1739 Duport purchased the land from the Collopissa nation of Indians; and
that said purchase was confirmed in the year 1769 by the French
government by a regular and formal patent: and secondly, that
the claim was duly presented to and approved by the board of
land commissioners of the United States, who confirmed it for
the whole quantity claimed, according to a-plan of survey. And
that said titles were also recognized and confirmed by an act of
Congress of the 11th 'May, 1820. But the petitioner avers, that
a large portion of said tract of land has been sold by the United
States, or confirmed to actual settlers.
The district court found that McDonogh held under Duport
by regular mesne conveyances, and showed a title to the land
by patent, which was granted by the highest authorities in the
province; that it was a complete and full title; and furthermore, "that the land claimed as per plan of survey on file herein
was confirmed by the report of the land commissioners of the
United States on the 20th of November, 1816."
The court below then proceeded to pronounce the grant of
1769 to be valid; and that the survey thereof, filed as an exhibit
in the cause, indicates the metes and bounds, and the laud is ordered to be located according to said survey, and to that extent
the claim is confirmed. And then the decree proceeds to adjudge that for all lands within these bounds which have been
sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States, the petitioner shall be authorized to enter other lands by floating warrants.
Assuming the foregoing facts to be true, the question presented is, whether jurisdiction existed to make the decree ?
The mere fact, standing alone, that the United States had
sold or otherwise disposed of any part of the land here claimed,
and that compensation could be made as provided by the 11th
section of the act of 1824, does not give jurisdiction, as the
power to award floating warrants is an incident to a case where
jurisdiction exists to decree the lands claimed and to order that
a patent therefor shall issue ; and if the power to divest title
out of the United States is wanting, none exists to decree the
floating warrants, because it must be first found and adjudged,
that the petitioner has the better equity to the land of which
the United States have deprived him by their grant to another.
But, there is another consideration why this petitioner could
not claim floating warrants. He sought a confirmation of his
title from the United States, for the obvious reason that his
grant from the French government, made in 1769, was invalid,
as that government had no interest in the country in 1769, it
having been ceded to Spain in 1763. And* if McDonogh was

SUPREME COURT.
United States v.'Roselius ct al.

forced to go behind his French grant, and rely on his Indian
pretension to claim, the probability was that he could establish
nothing to support his assumption of title, and must fail altogether. Under these circumstances, the United States confirmed McDonogh's claim, without allowing him any compensation for such land as had been previously sold or disposed to
others within the boundaries confirmed. He accepted the confirmation on these terms; and as we are substituted by the acts
of 1824 and 1844, for the political power, and required to adjudge these claims, as Congress adjudged them before the act
of 1844 was passed, we are boutid to hold that, when our predecessors decided McDonogh's claim favorably, they awarded
him all that he had a right to demand, and which he sanctioned
by accepting the confirmation on the terms it was offered.
Nothing could be fraught with worse consequences as regards
confirmations by Congress,'or by commissioners acting by its
authority, than to hold, that when a doubtful claim was confirmed on certain terms, and the claimant accepted these terms,
and took the full benefit of the confirmation, that still he could
come into the courts of justice and enforce his entire claim for
the deductions made by Congress, as if no adjustment had been
made. Such cases must stand on the footing of compromise,
and all equities existing when the compromise was made, and
not provided for by it, must be deemed to have been abandoned.
If it were otherwise, then there would be no end of these pretensions to compensation, before Congress and the courts. But
to hold that the confirmation was final, and conclusive of the
whole claim, (as we think it clearly was,) then the country will,
at last, find repose, and the cultivator of the soil will know from
whom to buy, and take title. MeDonogh's claim being compromised, the government had no duty imposed on it to compensate him in case of loss.
Jurisdiction is also wanting on other grounds. If the grant
of the French government to Duport was a complete title, then
no act on the part of the American government was required to
give it additional validity, as the treaty of 1803, by which
Louisiana was acquired, sanctioned perfect titles: nor was jurisdiction vested in the District Courts to adjudge the validity of
perfect titles. This is the settled construction of the act of1824, as was held by this ourt in the case of the United States
v. Reynes, 9 How. 143, 144.
In the next place, McDonogh alleges that his title was confirmed by the United States in 1816, and again in 1820. The
act of 1824 conferred jurisdiction on the District Courts to adjudge and settle the validity of imperfect claims against the
United States as already stated. But where the claim had been

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

35

United States v. Rloselius et al.

granted by an act of Congress, or by officers acting under the
authority of Congress, and a perfect legal title vested in the
grantee, no power was conferred on the courts to deal with such
title, because it needed no aid. And because such an assumption would of necessity claim power in the courts to modify the
grant made by Congress, in every respect, or to set it aside
altogether.
On this assumption, the District Courts might have been
called on to readjudge every claim that Congress had confirmed. The legislature contemplated none of these things, when
passing the acts of 1824 and 1844.
MeDonogh informs us, in his petition, that he did not claim
a decree for any land covered by his grant, but that he sought a
decree for land warrants to be located on 6Thder lands for such
parts as had been sold or disposed of by the United States
vithin the bounds of his claim. And as incident to this claim
for compensation, he prayed that his side lines might be widened,
so that the upper line would run north 350 west; and the lower
line, north 90 50' east. These side lines are about eighteen
miles long, and commence on the Mississippi forty arpens apart,
but by widening the tract claimed, as decreed by the District
Court, is something like fifteen miles wide where the lifies terminate on the river Amitie, and lake Maurepas. The boundaries were thus settled by the court below, according to the
power conferred by the second section of the act of 1824,
sweeping over a large tract of country, and covering many
lands granted to others by the United States.
The petition in this case was filed in June. 1846; at the previous term of the Supreme Court of the United States, the
cause of John McDonogh, against Milaudon, was decided, on
which this court was asked to revise a decision of the Supreme
Court of Louisiana, which settled the boundaries of MeDonogPs -rant; holding that the side lines could not diverge, but
that the land must be of equal width in front and rear, and the
side lines parallel to each other throughout. The question in
the State Court being one of boundary, and not involving any
cons4deration that could give this court cognizance, under the
25th section of the Judiciary Act, the writ of error was dismissed
for want of jurisdiction.
As the decision of the Supreme Court of Louisiana had settled the question of boundary, we think the, Dirtrict Cou.TS
should not have disregarded that decision, and involved the
government in such serious consequences as that of making
compensation for lands not covered by MeDonogh's grant.
If none of these objections existed, however, there is another,
that would preclude the petitioner from having compensation

36

SUPREME COURr.
United States v. Roselins et al.

in land warrants. He does not state what lands the United
States have granted to others, within his claim; nor who the
owners are; neither does he make them parties. These steps
were required by the act of 1824, and not having been taken in
this instance no general decree could be made for floating warrants, as was done by the District Court. We so held in the
case of the United States v. Moore, 12 Howard, 223.
For the reasons stated, it is ordered, that the decree be reversed,
and the petition dismissed without prejudice to McDonogh's
claim.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the District Court of the Uaited States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjadged, and
decreed, by this court, that the decree of the said District Court,
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and that this
cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District
Court, with directions to that court to disiniss 'the petition in
this case, without prejudice to the rights of the petitioner.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. CHRISTIAN
ABIAL D. CROSSMAN, WILLIAMi E. LVERIDGE,

B. D'AUTUIN, BENJAMIN

ROSELIUS,
FRANCOIS

C. HOWARD, JOIIN SPEAR SMITH,

BRANTZ MAYER, JOHN GIBSON, AND R. R. GURLEY, EXECU-

TORS OF JOHN McDoNOGH, DECEASED.
Where a party claimed title to a tract of laid in Louisian Y,under a judicial sale in
1760, and alleged that he and those under whom lie claimed, had ben in peaceable
possession ever since the sale, a case of perfect title is prcsentcd which is not within
the jurisdiction of the District Court, inder the acts of 1824 and 1844.
Upon the sufficiency of the evidence to s kstaia the title, no opinion is expressed.

THIS was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by iTXr. Cushing, (Attorney-General,) for the
United, States.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY. delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal from thea decree of the District Court for

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
United States v. Rotelius et al.

the Eastern District of Louisiana, in a proceeding instituted in
that court by John McDonogh, in his lifetime, to try the validity
of his claim to certain land mentioned in his petition. The
proceeding was under the acts of 1824 and 1844.
The petition was presented on the 15th of June, 1846, and
sets forth that he has a good and valid title to a tract of land in
the parish of Jefferson, near the city of New Orleans, and on
the same side of the river Mississippi, commencing at a distance
of eighty arpens from the river, and running back or in the rear
from thence, with the continuous lines of the front tract of
tienty-one arpens on the riyer, a distance of about forty-nine
and one third arpens in depth, until one of the side lines intersects with the other in a point, including about one hundred
and seventy-seven and one third superficial arpens. That said
tract of land is a portion of a larger tract which was adjudicated and sold on or about the 17th of April, 1760, to De Pontalba, by order of the highest tribunal of the government of
France, in Louisiana, called the Supreme Cbuncil of the province of Louisiana, by Charles Marie Delalande Dapremont
Counsellor and Assessor of the Supreme Council of the Province,
and Attorney-General of the King of France for said Province
of Louisiana; that said sale and adjudication by the order and
authority aforesaid, is fully equivalent to a patent to said land;
the Supreme Council of the Province being at the head of the
land-office, granted the lands and issued-the patents; that after
passing through various mesne conveyances, the petitioner
finally acquired said tract of land; that his title and claim had
been presented and proved before the Board of Land Commissioners, who reported that it ought to be confirmed, but the said
report was never acted on by Congress; and that said tract of
land has always been in the peaceable and undisturbed possession and enjoyment of the petitioner, and those under whom he
derives his title, ever since the date of the original grant thereof.
The petitioner therefore prays confirmation.
These are the facts stated in this petition; and if they are
true, 'he District Court had no jurisdiction of the casei and no
right to pronounce judgment upon the validity of the title. The
acts of 1824 and 1844, authorize a proceeding of this kind in
those cases, only where the title set up is imperfect, but equitable. It has been repeatedly so held by this court, and was so
decided in the case of the United States v. Moore, 12 Howard,
209; and again in the case of the United 'States v. Pillerin and
others, 13 Howard, 9, as well as in other cases to which it is
unnecessary to refer. Indeed the words of the act of 1824,
conferring this special jurisdiction on the District Courts, appear
to be too plain for controversy.
4
VOL. XV.

38

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Ducros et al.

Now 'the title set up by the petitioner is a complete legal
title; and if he can establish the facts stated in his petition his
title is protected by the treaty itself, and does not need the
aid of an act of Congress to perfect or complete it. For
undoubtedly, if the possession of the land has been held
continually by the petitioner and those under whom he claims,
under the judicial sale made by the French authorities in 1760,
the legal presumption would be that a valid and perfect grant
had been made by the proper authority, although no record of
it can now be found.
We of course express no opinion as to the sufficiency of the
evidence to maintain the complete and perfect title claimed in
the petition. That question is -not before us on this appeal;
for as the District Court had no 'authoritr to decide upon it,
the decree must be reversed for want of 'Jurisdiction, and the
petition dismissed. But we shall dismiss it without prejudice
to the legal rights of either party; leaving the petitioner at
liberty to assert his rights in any court having comp tent jurisdiction to decide upon the validity or invalidity of the complete
and perfect title set up in his petition.
Order.
Tints cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court, that the decree of the said District Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby, reversed, for the want of jurisdiction in
that court, and that this cause be, and the same is hereby, remanded to the said District Court, with directions to that court
to dismiss the petition without prejudice to the legal rights of
either party.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. JOSEPH MARCEL

ALPRED DUCROS, AND

Louis

DucRos,

TOUTANT BEAUiREGARD.

A grant of land in Louisiana by the :French authorities in 1764, is void. The province was ceded to Spain in 1762. (See 10th Howdrd, 610.)
In 1793, certain legal proceedings were had before Baron de Carondelet in his judicial
capacity, wherein the property now claimed is described zs part of the estate of the
grantor of the present claimant.

But this did not amount toa confirmation of the

title in his political character; and if it did, the title would be a perfect one. and
beyond the jurisdiction of the District Court, under the bets of 1824 and 1844:

Tns was an appeal from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.

