SU'PREME COURT.
Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

is not one of them. In Hamburg, the day the bill falls due
makes one of the days of grace. Notice must be given to the
drawer or indorser on the day the dishonor takes place, or on
the next day. If notice be given through the post-office, it
must be forwarded by the first mail after the demand of payment. If the note fal'due on Sunday, under the general law,
the demand of payment must be made on Saturday.
The usage is not proved in this case. Four instances, in the
course of two years, are insufficient to establLsh a usage. Such a
rule would, in effect, abolish the commercial law, in regard to
demand and notice on promissory notes and bills of exchange.
There is ground ' doubt whether any deviation fLom the general law has not been productive of inconvenience.
No explanation is given, why the demand of payment on the
note was made at the United States Hotel, in this city. Such
a demand would seem to be insufficient.
We are, therefore, of the opinion, that there was no error in
the instructions of the court to the jury; the ;udgment of the
Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this. court, that the judgment of
the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

WILLIAM LIVINGSTON AND EBENEZER N. C ALEF, APPELLANTS,
V. WILLIAM W. WooDWORTH, ADMINISTRATOR OF WILLIAM

WOODWORTB,

DECEASED,

JAMES

G. WILSON, ARTEmAS L.

BROOKS, AND IGNATIUS TYLER, APPELLEES.
Where the assignors of a pateit-right were joined with thE. assignee for a particular
loeality, in a bill for an injunction to restrain a defendant from the use of the machine patented, and the defendant raised, in this court, and after a inal decree, an
objection arising from a misjoinder of parties, the objection comes too late.

Moreover, in the present case, the parties consented to tae decree under which the
account in controversy was adjusted.
That consent having been given, however, to a decree by which an acconnt should
be taken of gains and profits, according to the prayer of the bill, the defendant was
not precluded from objecting to the account upon the ground that it went beyond

the order.
The report having been recommitted to the master, with instructions to ascertain the
amount of profits which might have been realized with due diligence, and the mas-

DECEMBER TERM 18 8.

547

Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.
ter having framed his report-upon the theory of awarding damages, this report, and
the order of the court confirming it, were both erroneous.
Under the circumstances of this ease, the decree should have been for only the aetual
gains and profits during the time when the machine was in operation, and during
no other period.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Mtassachusetts.
All the facts of the case are stated in the opinion of the
court, to which the reader is referred.

It was argued by 11r. Schey, for the appellants, and by
George. T. Curtis, for the appellees.
141r. 8chley made the following points:
1. The account ought not to have been taken from the date
of the patent. The title of the complainant, Tyler, was not
complete until 1st July, 1848, nor the title of' Brooks until the
10th lay, 1848. At the furthest, the account ought not to have
been taken from I period prior to the latter day.
2. The account ought not to have been continued beyond the
time of the filing of tie bill. There are cases, undoubtedly, in
which the account is continued to the date of the repdrt; but
this is not such a case.
3. It was clearly erroneous to allow interest, from the day of
filing the bill, on the whole amount; as part of the amount accrued after that date.
4. Upon the case, as it stood in court, actual "gains and profits," and nothing more, ought to have been charged against the
defendants. If damages, beyond actual gains and profits, were
asked, the complainants should have sought another forum.
Curtis on Patents, § 348; Hindmarsh on Patents, 361-365;
Crossley v. The Derby Gas Light Company, 3 Mylne & Craig,
428, 433; Bacon v. Spotswood, 1 Beav. 387; Colborn v. Simms,
2 Hare, 560; 2 Eden on Injunctions, 251; Phillips on Patents,
457; Webster on Patents, 119, 168, 238; Lee v. Alston, 1 Ves.
Jr. 82.
5. The allowance of one dollar per thousand was not warranted by the evidence in the cause; even if, in other respects,
the decree was right. The allowance was excessive, upon the
merits, as disclosed in evidence.
The points made by Mr. Curtis, for the appellees, were the
following:
I. The first point that will be submitted, on behalf of the appellees, 'will be, That this being a bill for an injunction and an
account, and a decree having been entered by consent of par-

SUPREME COURT.
Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

ties, (Record, p. 68,) that the complainants, were entitled to the
injunction and account prayed for in the bill, an appeal does
not lie from the final decree, which merely ascertains the items
of the account which the appellants consented should be taken.
That an appeal cannot be taken from a decree entered by
consent, counsel will cite 2 Daniel's Ch. Pr. 1179, 1180; Bradish v. Gee, Arb. 229; Harrison v. Rumsey, 2 Ves. 488; Atkinson v. Marks, 1 Cow. 693; Corning v. Cooper, 7 Paige, 587.
There is a case in Ohio which is otherwise, founded on the
peculiar provisions of the' statute allowing appeals. Brewer v.
The State of Connecticut and others, 9 Ohio R. 189.
But there is nothing in the provisions of the judiciary act of
1789, or in the act of March 3, 1803, § 2, allowing and regulating
appeals in equity, to prevent the applicatio.a by this court of the
rule, that when. a decree has been taken by consent, it cannot
be disturbed by an appeal or a rehearing. The object of the
act of 1803 is stated in the case of the San Pedro, 2 Wheaton,
141, 142. The only question in this case is, whether the consent decree, entered May term, 1849, (p. 18,) does not render
the final decree (p. 51, 52) a decree by consent also. It will
be contended that it does:
1. Because, by the first decree, the appellants consented that
the appellees were entitled to the perpetual injunction, and "the
account prayed for in the bill;" and all that remained to be
done was to ascertain what account was prayed for in fhe bill
2. Because, by the first decree, it was expressly declared, that
the parties consented to have the abcount commence at such a
time as should be found by the master, and be confirmed by the
court -a stipulation as binding on both parties as if they had
made the same point the subject of arbitration.
But if the appeal was rightly taken, comsel for the appellees
will contend,
IL That the second decretal order to the master, by which he
was directed to ascertain "the amount o:! profits which may
have been, or, with due diligence and prudence, might have
been, realized-by the defendants for the work done by them"
with the machine complained of, taken in connection with the
principles laid down by the court in their opinion, (see appendix
to this brief,) stated the true rule for this case.
1. It appears, by an account filed with the master at the first
hearing, that the appellants had been using the, machine complained of from July, 1845, to July, 1848, and had planed therewith 3,962,760 feet of boards during that time.
It also appears that they had received an average of $2 per
thousand feet for this work; and in their answer they state, that
this work was done at an average expeme of $1.50 per thou.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

549

Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

sand feet, leaving 50 cents, only, as the net profit actually realized on a thousand feet. But they do not profess to do this with
entire accuracy, but as an "approximate estimate."
In this state of the facts, the master, assuming that he was
to find only the actual net profits realized, heard evidence on
the part of the complainants which tended to show that a thousand feet of boards could be planed for a less cost; and, also,
evidence on the part of the respondents, tending to show that
it would cost as much as they had stated in their answer; but
he held, that the result of the whole evidence did not authorize
the conclusion that the respondents had not truly stated the
actual cost, and, accordingly, he reported $1.50 as the cost per
thousand, leaving an actual profit of 50 cents only.
As it stood on the master's first report, therefore, there was
evidence tending to show that, in charging $1.50 per thousand
as the cost of planing, the respondents had conducted the business with less skill and prudence than it might have been conducted. The master's conclusion was based wholly on the idea
that the actual net profits furnished the rule, and that the evidence did not control the statement of the answer as to the
amount of such actual profits.
An exception being taken and argued, it appeared to the
court that here was a state of facts which required the application of a different rule, and the cause was recommitted to the
master, by the second decretal order, and the accompanying instructions.
The rule announced was, that the master was to report the
profits which the respondents might have made with due diligence and prudence; and the principle adopted by the court
was, that the respondents were to be charged as involuntary
trustees, accountable, like mortgagees in possession and other
similar trustees, for the profits which might hale been received
with due care and prudence.
To apply this rule rendered it necessary to hear evidence on
both sides, and to take the average given by all the testimony
of what it would cost to plane 1,000 feet. The result of the
whole evidence, given to -the master at both hearings, may be
thus stated.
(The counsel then went into some long calculations respecting the cost of planing.)
2. There is no technical difficulty in a court of equity in
adopting and applying such a rule as that directed by the 2d
decretal order to the master.
Where the court has jurisdiction to give the principal relief
sought, it will make a complete decree, and give compensation
for the past injury. As in bills for specific performance. New-

550

SUPREME

COURT.

Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

ham -. May, 13 Price, 749; Nelson v. Bridges, 2 Beavan, 239;
Phillips v. Thompson, 1 Johns. Ch. R. 150; Parkhurst v. Van
Cortlandt, Ibid. 273; Pratt v. Law & Campbell, 9 Cranch, 456;
Catheart v. Robinson, 5 Peters, 269; 2 Story's Eq. Jurisp. § 796.
So also in injunction bills for waste. Jesus College v. Bloom,
3 Atk. 262; Garth v. Cotton, Ibid. 751; Lee v. Alston, 1 Bro.
Ch. R. 194.
The jurisdiction in equity conferred upon the circuit courts
in pal -nt causes, by statute, contemplates full power to give the
plaintiff as ample redress as he could have at law, except that
the damages cannot be trebled. Patent Act of July 4th, 1836.
§ 17, 14.
3.- There being no technical difficulty in applying a rule that
involves elements of computation, and gives an approximate
compensation to -the party injured, the question is simply one
of principle, viz. What rate of profits shall a party, who has
long infringed a patent, be required to account for in equity ?
The court below did not direct the ma;ter to find damages,
nor did he go into that inquiry. He inquired, as he was directed
to do, whether the profits actually made by the respondents
were as large as they might have been with the exercise of due
care and prudence.
a. Any other rule, in a case of this kind, would put the patentee entirely in the power of the trespasser, and enable the
latter to fix the rate at which he should account for the use of
the machine.
b. The rule applied in this case by the-icourt below was correct in principle. It was to hold the party accountable, as an
involuntary trustee, for what the patentee might have realized
by the same exercise of the right, the evidence showing that he
had made the cost of thb work excessive. 'rhe principle is well
settled, that a court of equity sometimes forces the character of
a trustee upon an intruder, or wrongdoer, cr one who is in possession under color of eight, and whq takes rmnts or profits which
belong to another, or might have taken them.
The particular class of trustees referred to in the opiion of
the court below are mortgagees. The followirig amhorities
show the application of the rule. Anonymous, 1 Vernon, 45;
Chapman v. Tanner, Ib. 267; Coppring v. Cooke, 1b. 270; Jenkins v. Eldredge, 3 Story, 325, 329, 830, 331; Dexter v. Arnold,
2 Sumner, 108, 130.
c. This is a case of first impression. All the authorities and
precedents which declare that the infinger .is to account in
equity for the "profits". made by the unlawful use of the invention, contemplate a case where the actual profits are all that
could have been made, or else that question has not been raised.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

This is a case where the evidence, shows that the respondents
so conducted their business that the actual profits were less than
half what might have been realized by the patentee from the
same business.
IIL The objection that the account ought not to have been
taken from the date of the (reissued) patent, viz., July 8th, 184.5,
but should have commenced Mray 20th, 1848, (the date of Wilson's deed of confirmation to Brooks, one of the complainants,)
is now too late. By consent of parties, the account was to commence at such time as should be found by the master and confirmed by the covrt. (P. 18.) The master found the facts, and
the court directed the account to commence at the date of the
reissued patent. No appeal lies from the decree thus consented to.
Besides, thie bill was brought in the name of the original
owner of the reissued patent, Woodworth's administrator, Wilson, his assignee, and Brooks & Tyler, the sub-assignees; and
by consent, the respondents admitted the right to the injunction
and account prayed for.
IV. If the appeal can open this question, it is submitted that
the decree was right.
The first patent to Woodworth, the inventor, was granted
December 27th, 1828. November 16th, 1842, Voodworth's administrator obtained from the commissioner, under the statute
of 1836, § 18, an extension for seven years from December 27th,
1842. December 7th, 1842, the administrator granted to Brooks
an exclusive territorial right for the residue of the extended
term, viz., to December 27th, 1849.
January 11th, 1844, the administrator conveyed all his interest
to Wilson.
July 8th, 1845, the administrator surrendered the renewed patent granted to him by the commissioner, and obtained a reissue
under the act of 1836, § 13, on account of a defective specification.
July 20th, 1847; Brooks assigned to Tyler one half of his territorial right.
May 20th, 1848, Wilson, by his deed, confirmed Brooks's title,
and Brooks, by his deed dated July 1st, 1848, confirmed his previous grant to Tyler.
The bill was filed July 10th, 1848, in the name of the administrator, Wilson, Brooks, and Tyler, to obtain an account for
tafringements commenced at least at the date of the surrender
and reissue, and steadily continued to the time of filing the bill
The court directed the account to commence with the date of
the reissued patent.
Three positions will be maintained:1st That the complainants, who sought this redress, jointly

SUPREM1E

COURT.

Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

represented the whole legal and equitable ";itle, and were jointly
entitled to the relief from the date of the reissued patent. Even
if it were true that a reissue does not give a legal title to the
assignee whose grant -was taken before the reissue, (-which is
not admitted,) it still leaves his equitable jitle, as against strangers and trespassers, as valid as it was before.
2d. An assignee of the whole existing interest under a patent
has the same legal title in the reissued patent, granted under
the act of 1836, § 13, for adefective specification, which he had
before the reissue, without any confirmatory grant from the patentee. Woodworth v. Stone, 3 Story's R. 749; Woodworth v.
Hall, 1 Woodb. & Minot, 248.
The two cases of Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How. 646; and
Bloom er v. McQuewan, 14 How. 539, deny to previous assignees
a legal title under an extension, and recognize only their right
to continue the use of the specific machines purchased.
They admit, therefore, that the extension is a grant of a new
estate to the patentees. A reissue under the 13th section of
the statute is not a'new grant in any sense, but merely the correction of errors or omissions in the specifications; and the
statute merely restricts the right of recovery to infringements
committed after the correction has been made.
3. If the complainants, Brooks and Tyler, needed any confirmation of their title, they had it before the bill was filed, and it
relates back to the earliest period when the statute will permit
recovery for infringements under a reissued patent.
V. The objection that the account ought not to have been
taken beyond the time of filing the bill, covers the work done in
the course of fifteen days. The bill was filed July 10th, 1848,
and the account covers the work done to July 25th. It appears
that the injunction was served on the last-mentioned day.
(Record, pp. 13,14.) The amount planed'in the month of July,
was 73,821 feet; so that, at the rate of 4,200 feet per day, the
respondents must have worked their mactine more than seve-iteen days in the month of July - that is -to say, they did more
than seven days' work after the bill was filed. (Record, p. 19.)
It does not appear precisely why the master took the account to
the 25th of July, but probably it was because the respondents
rendered it to that time, they not having siopped before. After
the bill was filed they had notice of the complainant's rights,
and on their own admission they were infiingers and bound to
account. To allow the present objection to prevail would be to
say, that in a suit for an injunction and aceount, the right being
admitted, the respondent may go on working after the bill is
filed, and the complainant. must file another bill to recover for
what is done after the first bill is filed, ani before the account

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

553

Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

is taken. There is no technical necessity for this, and it would
be most onerous, as leading to endless litigation.
VI. The objection as to the ifiterest allowed on the items
which accrued after the filing of the bill, assumes that work
was done by the respondents after the bill was filed. By their
own admission they had no right to use the machine. Th
master brought the account down to the time when the respondents rendered it, July 25th; and if a part of the items thus
covered accrued after the respondents were notified, those items
must, in contemplation of law, be treated as if they had already
accrued when the bill was filed, in taking a contimiing account.
lMIr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellees, on the 24th of July, 1848, obtained from the
court above mentioned an injunction to restrain the appellants
from using or vending one or more planing machines substantially the same in construction and mode of operation as the
machine which had been patented to William Woodworth,
deceased.
In their bill they allege the originality of the invention of the
patentee, the extension of the patent after his death for the space
of seven years beyond its original limitition to the appellee,
William WV. Woodworth, as administrator of the inventor, and
the grant by said administrator to the appellee, Brooks, of the
exclusive right to construct and use the invention within certain
specified limits for the entire period of that extension. The bill
further alleges a second extension by act of Congress of the
patent to the said administrator for the term of seven years
from the 27th day of December, 1849; but states that in consequence of doubts entertained as to the correctness of the specification, and of the fact of said letters-patent having been found
to be inoperative, they were duly surrendered, and new letters
patent bearing date on the 8th day of July, 1845, were issued
to the appellee, William W. Woodworth and his assigns, for the
residue of the term of 28 years from 27th of December, 1828;
that subsequently to this last renewal the appellee, William W.
Woodworth, had granted to the appellee, Wilson, and to his assigns, all the right and title acquired by him by the issue of the
last letters-patent with the amended specification. That the
appellee, Brooks, by his deed of the 20th of July, 1847, had
granted and assigned to the appellee, Tyler, one half Brooks's
right in the patent to Woodworth for the term ending on the
twenty-seventh of December, 1849, to be used within the town
of Lowell, and not elsewhere. That the appellee, Wilson, by
deed of the 20th of May, 1848, assigned and confirmed to Brooks
and his assigns, the exclusive right of constructing and using
VOL. XV.

47

SUPREME COURT.
Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

twenty planing machines according to the letters-patent with
the amended specification, and gave authority to Brooks, in
Wilson's name, to execute all such deeds of confirmation to the
assignees of any rights and privileges within the county of Middiesex as he should deem fit, and that in virtue of this power
and authority, he, Brooks, did by his deed of July 1st, 1848,
grant and confirm to the appellee, Tyler, in the name and behalf of the said Wilson, as well as in his own name, all the
rights and privileges described in the deed from Brooks to Tyler
of the 20th of July, 1847. The bill further alleges that the appellants were then using, and for some time had used, within
the city of Lowell, one of the machines substantially the same
in construction and mode of operation as the planing machine
in the said last mentioned letters-patent detcribed, the exclusive
right to make, use and vend which, is by how vested in the appellees. The bill also charges that theretofore two actions at
law had been instituted in that court, the one against a certain
James Gould, and the other against Rodolphus and James,
Edwards and Cyrus Smith, for the violation of the exclusive
privileges granted to the plaintiffs in those-actions under patent
last aforesaid, by using a machine substantially the same with
the said planing machine invented by the said William Woodworth, and that, upon issues made up in bcth these actions, the
jury found that the defendants had infringed the patent, and
subjected them to the payment of damages. It avers the use, as
before stated by the appellants of their machine, to be an infringment of the Woodworth patent, and a violation of ihe exclusive rights and privileges of the appelle2es; and concludes
with a prayer that the appellants may be decreed to account for
and pay over to the appellees all gains and profits which have
accrued from using their said machines since the expiration of
thi said original patent; that they may be r3strained, by inju .tion, from using or vending any one or moxe of said machines;
that the machine or machines, in the possession or under the
control of the appellants, may be destroyed or delivered over to
the appellees, who ask also for general relief.
The appellants, by their answer state, that during a part of
the time which has elapsed between the autumn of 1841 and
April 1st, 1844, they have used in their mfil at Lowell a single
planing machine constructed according to a patent granted to
James H. Hutchinson on the 16th of July, 1939, which machine,
in some of its combinations, substantially xesembles the machine
specified in the patent granted to Woodwrtbh in 184, but is
unlike any machine specified in the patent to Woodworth in
1828. "They aver, also, that the planing business had been carried on as aforesaid, in virtue of the Hutchinson machine,. at

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

.555

Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

Lowell, with the full knowledge of the appellee, Brooks, and
without objection from him until within a short time previously;
and that they had no knowledge or belief of any infringement
by them of the patent to Woodworth, until after the decision
in Gould's case; after which decision, they were informed that
the patent to Woodworth had been surrendered and reissued
with a new specification, the validity of which reissued patent
had not, within their knowledge or belief, been established until
the decision of the suit against the said Edwards and Smith.
The answer denies the originality of Woodworth's claim, by
averring that James, Joseph, Aaron, and Daniel Hill, and Leonard Gilson, in the District of Massachusetts, as early as 1827,
and John Hale of-Bloomfield, in the State of New York, in the
year 1828, rad knowledge of and had made and used planing
machines essentially the same and prior to the pretended invention of William Woodworth, deceased.
At the May term of the court, 1849, this cause coming on
to be heard upon the bill, the answers, replications, and exhibits,
by the consent of the parties it was decreed by the court, that
the appellees (the complainants below) were entitled to the perpetual injunction and to the account prayed for by the bill;
said account to commence at such time as shall be found by
the master, and be cQnfirmed by the court. The decree proceeds that, the master in taking said accoant shall have power
to require the parties to produce before him, on oath, all books
and papers relating thereto, and to hear such oral evidence as
either party may produce, and on the motion of either of the
parties, to examine either of the other parties, upon interrogatories. And all farther directions are reserved until the coming in
of the master's report,
In pursuance of this decretal order, upon the examination of
the parties on oath, and upon evidence produced aliunde, the
master reported that the amount of gains -and profits received
by the defendants below upJn 3,962,700 feet of plank, the num.
ber of feet planed by them, was at the rate of fifty cents per
thousand feet, no exception being taken to the amount of the
work stated to have been done by the said defendants, or to the
gross amount at- which the -ork was charged by them per, thou*and, but exception being taken to the report of the master
upon the ground that the rate of profit charged to me defendants below should have been one dollar instead of fituy .. s
per thousand, the court by a farther decretal order recommitted
the report to the master, with instructions to ascertain the
amount of profits which may have been, or with due diligence
and prudence might have been, realized by the defendants, for
the work done by them or their servants, by the machines de-

556

SUPREME COURT.
Livingston et dI. v. Woodworth et al.

scribed in the complainant's bill, and that the account of profits
should commence from the date of the letters-patent issued with
the amended specifications. In obedience to the decretal order
last mentioned, the master made a second report, by which he
charged the defendants for profits on the work done by their
machine at the rate of one doilar per thousand feet, instead of
fifty cents, as in his former report, from the 8th day of July,
1845, the date of the reissued patent. He says it is true that
the rate of profit adopted by him is conjectural, "but that he
does not think he has infused into the case any element too
unfavorable to the defendants. That by the decision of the
court they were trespassers and wrongdoers, in the legal sense
of the words, and were consequently in a position which might
make them liable to be mulcted in damages greater than the
profits they have actually received; the rule'being not What
benefit they have received, but what injury the plaintiffs have
sustained." To this second report of the master, exceptions
were filed by the appellees, the plaintiffs below, founded iApon
the departure of the master from the safe and just rule of actual profits, as prayed for by the bill, and the adoption of
a rule of proceeding which was vague and conjectural, and
unsustained by the evidence in the cause. At the May term,
1851, the Circuit Court decreed that this report of the master,
except so far as interest is thereby disallcwed, should be confirmed, and that the appellants should, within ten days, pay
to the appellees the sum of- $3,962,96, with interest thereon
from the day of filing the bill, with costs.. It is this decree,
founded upon the antecedent proceedings herein adverted to,
that we are to review; and it may here be remarked, that the
statement of those proceedings has been unavoidably protracted
from the necessity for considering two questions of a preliminary character raised in the argument, and which it is proper to
dispose of before deciding upon, and before reaching the merits
of, this cause. 1st. It has been insisted, on.belialf of the appellants, that the appellee, Tyler, claiming as assignee under
Woodworth, Wilson, and Brooks, and asserting a title complete
in himself, within a certain locality, could not regularlyl unite in
his bill those persons whom he had shownw had no title within
the same locality, and who could not therefore be embraced in
a decree in his favor; a decree which, in its terms and effect,
must exclude every kind of interest in those co-plaintiffs within
the same limits. It is true, as a rule of equity pleading, that
none should be made parties, either as complainants or defendants, who have no interest in the matters in controversy, or
which can be affected by the decree of the court. Vide Story's
B]quity pleading, ch. 4, 231; so too.in § 232 of the same work

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

557

Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

it is said: " In cases where the want of interest applies, it is
equally fatal when applicable to one of several plaintiffs as it is
when applicable to one of several defendants. indeed, the
objection in the former case is fatal to the whole suit, whereas,
in the latter case, it is fatal (if taken in due time) only as
against the defendant improperly joined." irk the same work,
§ 544, it is said that, " In cases of misjoinder of plaintiffs, the
objection ought to be taken by demurrer, for if not so taken, and
the court proceeds to a hearing on the merits, it will be disregarded, at least if it does not materially affect the propriety of
the decree." The language of Lord Langdale, in the case of
Raffity v. King, as reported in the Law Journal, vol. 6, p. 93,
is very clear upon this question, where he says, "As to the objection to John Raffity being made a plaintiff, I am not satisfied
it would, uider any circumstances, be considered of such importance as to deprive the other plaintiffs of the relief they are entitled to. There have been cases, in which the court, with a.
view te special justice, has overcome the difficulty occasioned
by a misjoinder of plaintiffs;" and in the case of Morley v.
Lord Hawke, cited in 2 Younge & Jervis, 520, before Sir William
Grant, the rule is thus stated as to the misjoinder of plaintiffs. "(The defendant objected to any relief being granted in
that state of the record; and, without determining the effect
of the objection if brought forward earlier, I think it is now
too late. If the objection had been stated in the answer, the
plaintiffs might have obtained leave to amend their bill, and
might have made John Raffity a defendant instead of a plain.tiff, for which there is an authority in the case of Ayhvin v.
Bray, (2 Younge & Jerv. 518, note,) and in such a case as this,
where the objection is reserved to the last moment, I think it
ought not to prevail."
In the case before us the objection of misjoinder of the plaintiffs nowhere appears upon the pleading, nor, for aught that is
disclosed, was it insisted upon even at the hearing: it is urged
for the first time after the hearing and after a final decree, and
to allow this objection at so late a stage of the proceedings,
would be a surprise upon the appellees, and might operate the
most serious mischiefs. In this case, and at this time, the allowance of such an objection would be peculiarly improper, for here
the objection cannot be viewed as having been merely waived
by reasonable and ordinary implication, but the defendants have
expressly c,nsented to a decree between the parties as they were
then arrayed upon the record. As to this objection, therefore, we
think it comes too late to be of any avail, and should not affect
the cognizance of the court either as to the parties or the subject-matter of the controversy. 2d. On the part of the appellees
47*

558

SUPREME COURT.
Livingston et af. v. Woodworth et al

(tile complainants in the Circuit Court,) it has been insisted,
that the decretal order, made in this cause by consent, covered
and ratified in advance all the subsequent proceedings on the
part of the court, rendering those proceedings inclusive of the
final decree, a matter of consent, which the appellants could
have no right to retract, and from which, therefore, they could
not legally appeal. In order to try the ac2uracy of this argument and of the conclusions sought to be deduced therefrom,
it is proper to examine the order which is alleged in support of
them. The words of that order are as follow:
" This cause came on, &c.- and by consent of parties it is
declared by the court" - what ? "That thecomplainants are entitled to the perpetual injunction and the account prayed for by
the bill." It seems to us incomprehensible, that by this consent
of the defendant below, he had consented to any thing precise
and unchangeable beyond the perpetual injunction, much more
so that he had thereby bound himself to acquiescence in any
shape or to any extent of demand which might be made against
him under the guise of an account. Indeed the complainants.
below, and the Circuit Court itself, have shown by their own
interpretation of this decretal order, that they did not understand it to mean, as in truth by'no just acceptation it could
mean, any thing fixed, definite and immutable; for the complainants below excepted to the report of the master, and the court
recommitted that report with a view to its alteration. Nor can
we regard the reference to the master as in the nature of an arbitration; for if so deemed, the award of that officer must have
been binding, unless it could be assailed for fraud, misbehavior,
or gross mistake of fact. In truth, the acconat consented to was
the account prayed for by the bill, and in the plain words of the
bill, viz., "that the defendants may be decreed to account for
and pay over all such gains and pr6fits as have accrued to them
from using the said machines since the expiration of said original
letters-patent." This language is particularly clear and significant- such gain and profits, and such only, as have actually
accrued to the defendants; and we are unaAe to perceive how,
by such an assent, the appellants, the defendants below, could
have been concluded against exceptions to any tiing and every
thing which might have been evolved by that report, however
illegal or oppressive.
Considering next the decretal order for the recommitment of
the first report, the second report, made in obedience to that order, and final decree founded upon the second report, we are
constrained to regard them all as alike irreconcilable with the
prayer of the bill, with the just import of the consent decree,
and with those principles, which control the action of courfs of

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

559

Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

equity. In the instructions to the master it will be seen, that he
is ordered "to ascertain and report the amount of profits which
may have been, or with due diligence and prudence might have
been, realized, by the defendants for the woik done by them or
by their servants by means of the machines described in the
complainant's bill, computing the same upon the principles set
forth in the opinion of the court, and that the account of such
profits commence from the date of the letters-patent issued with
the amended specification." The master, in this report made
in pursuance of the instructions just adverted to, admits that the
account is not constructed upon the basis of actual gains and
profits acquired by the defendants by the use of the inhibited
machine, but upon the theory of awarding damages to the complainants for an infringement of their monopoly. He admits,
too, that the rate of profits assumed by him was conjectural and
not governed by the evidence; but he attempts to vindicate the
rule he had acted upon by the declaration, that he was not
aware that he had "infused into the case any element too unfavorable to the defendants. That by the decision of the court
they were trespasers and wrongdoers, in the legal sense of these
words, and consequently in a position to be muleted in damages
greater than the profits they have actually received: the rule
being not what benefit they have received, but what injury the
plaintiffs have sustained." To what rule the master has reference in thus stating the -rounds on which his calculations have
been based, we do not know. We are aware of no rule which
converts a court of equity into an instrument for the punish.
ment of simple wrts; but upon this principle of chastisement
the master admits that he has been led, in contravention of his
original view of the testimony, and upon conjecture as to the
realty of the facts, and not upon facts themselves, to double the
amount which he had stated to be a compensation to the plaintiffs below, and the compensation prayed for by them, and the
Circuit Court has, by its decree, pushed this principle to the extreme by adding to this amotint the penalty of interest thereon
from the time of filing the bill to the date of the final decree.
We think that the second report of the master, and the final
decree of the Circuit Court, are warranted neither by the prayer
of the bill, by the justice of this case, nor by the well-established
rules o)f equity jurisprudence.
. If the appellees, the plaintiffs below, had sustained an injury
to their legal rights, the courts of law were open to them for
redress, and in tnose courts they might, according to a practice,
which however doubtful in point of essential right, is now too
inveterate to be called in question, have claimed not compensation merely, but vengeance, for such injury as they could show
that they had stLstained. But before a tribunal which refuses

560

SUPREME COURT.
Livingston et ar. v. Woodwort;i et al.

to listen even to any, save those whose acts and motives are
perfectly fair and liberal, they cannot be permitted to contravene
the highest and most benignant principle of the being and constitution of that tribunal.
There they will be allowed to claim that which, ex aquo et
bono, is theirs, and nothing beyond this.
In the present case it would be peculiarly harsh and oppressive, were it consistent with equity practic3, to visit upon the
appellants any consequences in the nature of a penalty. It is
clearly shown that the appellants, in workiing their machine,
were proceeding under an authority equal to that (the same indeed) which bestowed on Woodworth and his assignees the
right to their monopoly. The appellants were using a machine
patented by the United States to Hutchinson, and might well
have supposed that the right derived to them from such a
source was regular and legitimate. They were, then, in no correct sense, wanton infringers upon the right,; of Woodworth, or
of those claiming under him. So soon as the originality and
patent was enjoined
ascertained
priority of consented
the Woodworth
of
thelaw,
usethe
fromby
to be perpetually
appellants
their machine, (the Hutchinson machine,) and to account for
and profits they had received from its use. Unwhatever gains
der these circumstances, were the infliction of damages, by way
with the practice of courts of equity,
of penalty, ever consistent
there can be perceived in this case no ground whatever for the
exercise of such a power.
circumstances exhibit, in a clearer lighty
On the c
the propriety of' restricting the account, in accordance with the
prayer of the bill, to the actual gains and profits of the appellants, (the defendants below,) during the ;ime their machine
therefore
We are
period. Court
operation andtheduring
was
is erroneousy
the Circuit
decreenoofother
of thei opinion,
that
and
and should be, asit is hereby, reversed, with costs;
remanded to the Circuit Coi, with instructions
this cause
to proceed thereictin conformity with the principles ruled in this
OpiniOn.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Jiscontrict of Massachusett, and was argued by counsel. On
sideration whereof, it is nov here ordered, adjudged, and defed by this court, that the decree of the sid Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs; and
that this cause be,mand the sameis hereby, remanded to the
said CircuithCourt, for further proceedings to be had therein, in
conformity to the opinion of this court.

