SUPREM1E COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

them; and much less do they establish, as to her, such an aberration or imbecility of mind as would justify a presumption,
and much less a legal conclusion, against the validity of any
and every act she might perform. To such a conclusion only
could the general expressions of opinion and belief of these
witnesses apply, and such a conclusion they come very far short
of establishing.
We are therefore of opinion, that the decree of the Circuit
Court should be affirmed, and the same is hereby affirmed with
costs.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of North Carolina, and was argued by counsel. On
adjudged, and
consideration whereof, it is now, here ordered,
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

HENRY O'REILLY, EUGENE L. WHITMAN, AND W. F. B. HASTINGS, APPELLANTS, V. SAMUEL F. B. MORSE, ALFRED VAIL,

AND FAtNcxs 0. J. SMITH.
Morse was the first and original inventor of the electro-mognetic telegraph, for which
a patent was issued to him in 1840, and reissued in 1348. His invention was prior
to that of Steinhiel of Munich. or Wheatstone or Davy of England.
Their respective dates compared.
But even if one of these European inventors had preceded him for a short time, this
circumstance would not have invalidated his .patent. A previous discovery in a
foreign country does not render a patent void, unless such discovery or some substantial part of it had been before patented or describ.-d in a printed publication.
And these inventions are not shown to have been so.
Besides, there is a substantial and essential difference between M1orse's and theirs;
that of Morse being decidedly superior.
An inventor does not lose his right to a patent because he has made inquiries or
sought information from other persons. If a combination of different elements be
used, the inventors may confer with men as well as consult books to obtain this
various knowledge.
There is nothing in the additional specifications in the reissued patent of 1848, inconsistent with those of the patent of 1840.
The first seven inventions, set forth in the specifications of his claims, are not subject
to exception. Thp eighth is too broad and covers too much ground. It is thi. d I
do not propose to limit myself to the specific machinery or parts of machinery described in the foregoing specification and claims; the essence of my invention being
the use of the motive power of the electric or galvanic current, which I call electromagnetism, however developed, for making or printing rtelligible characters, signs
or letters at any distances, being a new application of tl at power, of which I claim
to be the first inventor or discoverer."
The case of Neilson 'and others v. Harford and others, in ':he English Exchequer Re.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.
ports, examined; and also the American decisions. The acts of Congress do not
justify a claim so extensive.
But although the patent is illegal and void so far as respects the eighth claim, yet the
patentee is within the act of Congress, which gives him a right to disclaim, and thus
save the portion to which he is entitled. No disclaimer having been entered before
the institution of this suit, the patentee is not entitled to costs.
In 1846 Morse obtained a second patent for the local circuits, which was reissued in
1848. It is no objection to this patent that it was embraced in the eighth claim
of the former one, because that eighth claim was void. Nor is it an objection to it,
that it was an improvement upon the former patent, because a patentee has a right
to improve his own invention.
This new patent and its reissue were properly issued. The improvement was new
and not embraced in the former specification.
These two patents of 1848, being good with the exception of the eighth claim, are
substantially infringed upon by O'Reilly's telegraph, which uses the same means
both upon the main line, and upon the local circuits.

(1ir.Justice Curtis)having been of counsel, did not sit in this
cause.
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Kentucky, sitting as a Court of Equity.
It is difficult to make a fair report of this case without writing a book. The arguments of counsel would fill a volume by
themselves.
The history of the case was drawn up ny the learned Judge,
who presides over the District Court of the United States in
Kentucky, and whose decree was under review. Permission
has been given by Judge Monroe that the reporter may use his
statement as preliminary to this report, and he avails himself
with pleasure of this kindness; because, although the narrative
is occasionally interpersed with the opinions which induced the
judge to decree an injunction in favor of Morse yet the histQry
is given with great precision and clearness.
The following statement is extracted from the opinion of
Judge Monroe:
The complainants, in their bill, allege that Samuel F. B.
Morse, one of them, was the true and original inventor of the
Electro-Magnetic Telegraph, worked by the motive power of
electro-magnetism, and of the several improvements thereon, by
which intelligence which is in one place is transmitted to
other distant places, and that by the letters-patent of the United
States, duly issued to him, Samuel F. B. Morse, and by his partial assignments to F. 0. J. Smith and Alfred Vail, the other
complainants, they together are lawfully invested with the exelusive right of constructing and employing such telegraph for
such purpose, throughout the United States, for the terms in
the letters-patent mentioned, and which have not yet expiredand they exhibit the letters-patent.
They show that the practicability and great utility of the in-

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

vention was fully established by the telegraph constructed under
the superintendence of Morse, by means of an appropriation
made by the Congress of the United States for the purpose, and
put in operation between the cities of Washington and Baltimore, in the year 1844.
That afterwards there had been constructed, by the agency
and means of joint-stock companies, promoted by the complainant, and operating under contracts and license of the patentee,
Morse and his assignees, telegraphs along lines, amounting, in
the aggregate, to upwards of four thousand five hundred miles,
whereby telegraphic communication was established between
the principal cites of the United States, frcm New Orleans to
Boston; and that there were now in progress of construction,
numerous additional and other lines, under contracts with them,
for more widely extending the benefits of the invention, and they
believe that if they are protected in the lawful use of their rights,
every section of the United States will, in a short time, have
the benefits of their improvements in telegraphic correspondence.
They represent that, in all the lines of telegraphic communication now in successful operation in the United States in
transmitting intelli fence by means of electro-magnetism, the
improvement of S. F. B. Morse, or the chief and essential principles and parts thereof, are employed.
• They show that they had caused to be established, a line of
telegraphic communication from Louisville, by way of Frankfort
and Lexington, to Maysville, Kentucky, which was in successful operation.
They represent that they had caused to be constructed, lines
of posts and wires from Louisville in the district of Kentucky,
by way of Bardstown, Glasgow, and Scottsville, in Kentucky,
and thence by way of Gallatin to Nashville, in the district of
Tennessee, for the transmission of intelligence, by means of
their improved telegraph; and that they had expended great
sums of money therein; and that this line is in the extension to
New Orleans, State of Louisiana; and is connected by another
line, with Memphis, Tennessee; and that large sums of money
will be expended in this work; and all the lines in a short time
completed, and the assignments.
They represent that their rights have been repeatedly and explicitly acknowledged and admitted in divers ways and by individuals and large bodies of associated ci:izens in various sec.
tions of the United States; that these had treated with them
for the purchase of their rights, or parts thereof, and of licenses
to use their patented improvements; and that they had made
extensive sales, pr licenses, to use them to ccmpanies and indi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

65

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

viduals, upon various lines, and amongst others, to the New
York, Albany, and Buffalo line; the Washington and New York
line; the New York and Boston line; the Washington and
Petersburg line; the line from Petersburg to New Orleans; besides numerous shorter and side lines.
They state that they had been thus in the successful and
uninterrupted exercise of the rights granted to them by the
letters.patent of the United States, and had been in nowise
disturbed therein, until, by the operations of the defendant,
O'Reilly, and the committing of the wrongs presently mentioned,
by him and his co-defendants.
This defendant, O'Reilly, they state, had, as early as 1845,
entered into a contract with the complainants, and another, then
having an interest in the patent, whereby he, O'Reilly, acknowledged their right; and that he had afterwards, in various ways,
and for a long period of time, manifested his acquiescence in,
and admissions of, the rights and privileges of them, the complainants, and even insisted on his right to the use of them
himself, under his contract with them; that he had, under this
contract and his claims under it, in fact, used and employed the
improved telegraph of the complainants, and persisted in such,
his claim, to employ it on all the lines embraced by his contract,
without questioning the validity of their patents. But,
They allege that this defendant, Henry O'Reilly, had, by him.
self, his agents and servants, constructed a line of posts and
suspended metallic wires thereon, from the city of Louisville, in
the District of Kentucky, by way of Bardstown, to Nashville,
in the State of Tennessee, and well knowing all the facts by
the complainants' set forth, he and his co-defendants had worked
and employed upon said line, a telegraph substantially the same
with the Electro-Magnetic Telegraph, invented by the complainant, Morse, and in his patents mentioned, against the will
and without any authority from them, the complainants. They
show that the terms of the contract, under which O'Reilly
claimed their right to the use of the telegraph, on certain other
lines where he employed it, did not extend to any country north
of the Ohio river, and that there was no color for any claim by
the defendants to the use thereof, within the District of Kentucky, or on any part of the lines by them lately constructed.
They represent, especially, that the defendants, in the operationi and working of their line of telegraph, so by them constructed, used and employed instruments, apparatus, and means,
which are, in the material, substantial, and essential parts thereof,
so upon the principle and plan of the said several improvements
patented by the complainant, Morse, or the plan and principle
of some of said improvements, and not other or different. And,
6*

66

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. BIorse et al.

They state, that by such means the defendants, their servants
and agents, had been for the space of more than four months
past, and Were still, transmitting intelligence over said line, for
any person who desired the same; and for such service, had
been, and are yet, receiving compensation from the persons for
whom the same is performed; all which they allege is in violation of the rights granted by the letters-patent, or of some of
the parts thereof.
They further represent, that. the defendant, O'Reilly, was
extending the line from Nashville to New Orleans, and had
extended it to Memphis, and was operating upon the last mentioned line to Memphis, in violation of the rights of them, the
complainants, by the use of their patented improvements, or the
principle and essential parts thereof; and that he had declared
his intention of completing the other line from Louisville to
New Orleans, and of then employing the same instruments as
he was then using on the line from Louisville to Nashville.
They state that they are informed that the defendants some.
times give out in speeches, that the patents of the complainant,
Morse, are void; and at other times, give out and pretend that
the machinery and apparatus which they use for the transmission and the reception of the intelligence upon the said line,
is a distinct and separate invention, which they, the complainants, are informed the defendants call the Columbian Telegraph:
Whereas, the complainants charge that the patents are good
and valid in law, and that the defendant, O'Reilly, by his contract with the patentee, and by his having exercised, and his
persisting in his claim to exercise, under it, the exclusive privileges by the patents granted, is estopped from denying their
validity. And,
That the said pretended new invention is, in its essential
principles, identical with, and upon, the plan of the patented
improvements of Morse, and that the use of the same is a
violation and infringement of the patent issued to the complainant, Morse.
They allege that the defendants had received, and were then
receiving, considerable sums of money for transmitting intelligence on the line from Louisville, within the District of Kentucky, in violation of the rights of the complainants ; and they
complain that the defendants had, by their unlawful operations,
greatly disturbed them in the lawful exercise of their rights, so
granted and held by them, and had caused a great diminution
of the business of them, the complainants, on their line of
telegraph, which they had caused to be constructed, and had
now in operation within the District of Kentucky; and that
the defendants refuse to desist from such violation of the complainants' rights. Wherefore,

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

67

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

The complainants pray that the defendants, by an order, and
the process of the court, may be enjoined from hereafter using
or employing such telegraphs in the violation and infringement
of the rights of them, the complainants, within the District of
Kentucky; that they may be compelled to account for the
money received by them in consideration of their unlawful
operations. and wrongful exercise of the rights, privileges, and
property of the complainants; and that on due proceeding and
final hearing, such order of injunction may be made final and
efectual; and that the complainants may have such other relief
as their case may require. And,
They propound numerous interrogatories, framed on all the
material allegations of the bill, and pray that each defendant
may be compelled to answer, on his oath, such as are for him
designated, and, to this end, and that they may have the relief
which shall be adjudged them, they pray the writ of subpoena.

Answer and Grounds of Defence.
The defendants appeared by their counsel, and admittea ,,.k
they had sufficient notice. O'Reilly read his answer to the
domplainants' bill.
The respondent admits the contract with the complainants,
of 1845, stated in the bill, and seems to admit that he had used,
under it, portions of the "machine or combinations" described
in the patent to Mr. Morse, of 1840; but denies he had used
others under this contract.
He says he was not scientific, and had not seen the patent
until after the complainants had alleged he had forfeited his
contract, and instituted a suit to have it vacated ;and insists
that he is not estopped to deny the validity of the patents.
He sets up no defence under this contract, and disclaiming
any license from the complainants in respect to the line of
telegraph in question, answers, that he believes, on grounds
which he sets forth, that Mr. Morse is not the original and first
inventor of the telegraph described in his patents, and insists
that his patents are, on that ground, and upon their face, and
for other causes he states, null and void.
He admits the construction and operation of the lines of
telegraph in Kentucky, and elsewhere, by himself and others;
but denying that the instruments employed on them are within
the description of the complainants' patents, even on the supposition of their validity, denies the infringement.
But other grounds of defence, not presented by the answer,
were assumed in the argument; and, the matter of the answer
will be more fully stated under the several heads of the whole
defence. The defendants all united in opposition to the motion.

68

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

The parties respectively read, without objection, a great mass
of documentary proof, in support of their positions, and a model
of the telegraph described in the letters-iatent, to Mr. Morse,
and of the telegraph employed, and proposed, to be employed
by the defendants, was exhibited and subjected to the application of the proofs, the explanation of the parties, and the
inspection of the tribunal.
The grounds of defence presented by the answer of O'Reilly,
and assumed on the proofs, will be comprehended under these
heads of primary division;
1. The complainant, Morse, was not th true and original
inventor of this telegraph.
IL The letters-patent to him are null. and void upon their
face, and for other causes dehors.
IIL. The telegraph constructed and employed by them, the
defendants, is substantially and in law, different from the telegraph described in the letters-patent, to Morse, and of which he
can lawfully claim the exclusive employment: And, therefore,
on the supposition of the validity of the patents to any extent,
there has been no infringement.
IV. The case on the pleadings and proofs, is not one, whatever might be considered of it on a final hearing of the bill,
which will justify an order for injunction presently.
These subjects in their order.
Is Mi. Morse the original inventor of this telegraph, and of
the several improvements thereon described in his letters-patent?
It is necessary that we now ascertain and settle, what is the
thing which was invented; and to this end it will be most convenient to begin at its conception, and accompany it in its
progress down to its present state of apparent maturity and
completeness.
Bistory of the Invention.
Its conception is fixed by Mr. Morse himself, in October, 1832,
on board the packet ship "Sully," on her passage from Havre,
France, to New York.
He says that he was by profession, a historical painter, and
had, in 1829, gone to Europe for perfecting himself in that art;
that on his return home, in October, 1832, there were among the
passengers in the ship, the Hon. Williani C. Rives, Minister of
the United States to the Court of France, Dr. C. T. Jackson,
James Fisher, Esq., of Philadelphia, 'William Constable., Esq.,
and other gentlemen of extensive reading and intelligence;
and that soon after the voyage commenced, the then experiments and discoveries in relation to electro-magnetism, and the

DECEMBER TEAtM, 1853.

69

O'Reilly et al. v. Mtorse et ai.

affinity of electricity to magnetism, or their probable identity,
became a subject of conversation.
In the course of this discussion, it occurred to him that, by
means of electricity, signs representing figares, letters, or words,
might be legibly written down at any distance, and that the
same effect might be produced by bringing the current in contact with paper saturated with" some saline solution. These
ideas took full possession of his mind, and during the residue
of the voyage he occupied himself, in a great measure,-in devising means of giving them practical effect.
Before he landed in the United States, he had conceived and
drawn out in his sketch book, the form of an instrument for
an electro-magnetic telegraph, and had arranged and. noted
down a system of signs composed of a combination of dots
and spaces, which were to represent figures, and these were to
indicate words to be found in a telegraphic dictionary, where
each word was to have its number. He had also conceived
and drawn out the mode of applying the electric or galvanic
current, so as to mark signs by its chemical effects.
This i3 the account of the inventor himself; but it- is supported by the testimony of disinterested witnesses.
Mr. Rives, under date of September 27, 1837, addressing
himself to Mir. Morse, says:
"I1 remember perfectly, that you explained to me the idea of
your ingenious instrument, during the voyage which we madi
together in the autumn of 1832. 1 also remember that during
our many conversations on this subject, I suggested several difi
culties to you; and that you obviated them with promptness
and confidence."
Captain Pell, the commander of /the ship, says, on the same
day, addressing himself to Mr. Morse.
" When I exa rained your instrument a few days since, I
recognized in it the same mechanical principles and arrangements which I had heard you explain on board of my vessel in
1832." And,
It appears by the depositions of two brothers of Mr Morse,
that on their meeting him on board the ship, immediately she
had moored at New York, the greeting had hardly passed
between the three brothers, and before they had. reached the
house of one of them, which they immediately proceeded to
from the ship, he announced to them his discovery, and told
them that he had, during his voyage, made an important invention, which had occupied almost all his time on ship-board, one
that would astonish the world, and of the success of which he
was perfectly sanguine; and that he said this invention was a
means of communicating intelligence by electricity, so that a

70

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. M1orse el al.

message could be written down in characters, in a permanent
manner, at any distanue; and he took from his pocket and
showed them, in his sketch-book, a representation of his invention.
And this was the invention in October, 1832.
Mr. Morse further says: " Immediately after his landing in the United States, he communicated his invention to a number of his friends, and employ c4 himself in preparations to prove its practicability and
value, -by actual experiment. To that end, he made a mould,
and cast, at the house of his brother, in New York, before the
commencement of the year 1833, a set of type, representing
dots-and spaces, intended to be used for the purpose of closing
and breaking the circuit in his contemplated experiments."
And this statement is also supported by other testimony.
But he was unable to proceed, for the want of money, to purchase the materials for a galvanic battery and wire, and was
compelled, for subsistence, to return to his pencil; and having
been led, in pursuit of employment, from place to place, from
1832 to the latter part of 1835, he had no opportunity of making
experiments of his invention. But, he a:.lrms, he never lost
faith in its practicability, or abandoned his intention of testing
it as soon as he could command the means,
"In 183.5, he was appointed Professor in the New York city
University, and about the month of November, in that year,
occupied rooms in the University buildinggs. Here he immediately commenced, with very limited means, to experiment
upon his invention.
"His first instrument was made up of an old picture or canvass-frame fastened to a table; the wheel. of an old wooden
clock moved by a weight to carry the paper forward; three
wooden drums, upon one of which the paper was wound and
passed thence over the other two; a wocden pendulum suspended to the top piece of the picture or siretching frame, and
vibrating across the paper as it passed over the centre wooden
drum; a pencil at the lower end of the pendululn in contact
with the paper; an electro-magnet fastened to a shelf across
the picture or stretching frame, opposite to an armature made fast
to the pendulum; a type rule and type for closing and breaking
the circuit, resting on an endless band, composed of carpet binding, which passed over two wooden rollers moved by a wooden
crank, and carried forward by points projecting downwards into
the carpet binding; a lever with a small weight on the upper
side, and a tooth projecting downwards at one end, operated on
by the type and a metallic fork, also projecting downwards, over
two mercury cups; at the other end a galvanic battery of one

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

71

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

cup, and a short circuit of wire embracing the helioes of the
electro-magnet, connected with the positive and negative poles
of the battery, and terminating in the mercury cups.
" When the instrument Was at rest, the circuit was broken at
the mercury cups. As soon as the first type in tle type rule,
(put in motion by turning the wooden crank,) cam _ in contact
with the tooth on the lever; it raised that end of the lever and
'depressed the other, bringing the prongs of the fork down into
the mercury, thus closing the circuit. The current passing
through the helices of the electro-magnet, caused the pendulum
to move and the pencil to make an oblique mark upon the
paper, which, in the mean time, had been put ift motion over
the wooden drum. The tooth in the lever falling into the space
between the two first types, the circuit was broken, when the
pendulum returned to its former position, the pencil making
another mark as it returned across the paper. Thus as the lever
was alternately raised and depressed by the points of the type,
the pencil passed to and fro across the strip of paper, passing
under it, making a mark resembling a succession of V's, the
points only, of W4hich however, were considered as telegraphic
signs. The spaces between the types caused the pen to mark
horizontal lines, long or short, in proportion to their own length.
"With this apparatus, made as it was, and completed before
the first of the year 1836, he Was enabled to mark down, intelligibly, telegraphic signs; and having arrived to that point, he
exhibited it to some of his friends early in that year, and first
of all, to Professor Leonard D. Gayle, who was a colleague
Professor in the University.
".Here was an actual operation of the instrument, and a demonstration of its capacity to accomplish the end of the invention." And,
This statement is fully supported by the affidavit of Dr. Gayle.
He says:
" That in the month of January, in the year one thousand
eight hundred and thirty-six, I was a colleague Professor in the
University of the city of New York, with Professor Samuel F.
B. Morse, who had rooms in the University buildings, on Washington Square, in said city. That during the said month of
January, of the year aforesaid, the said PrQfes~or Morse invited
me. into his private room, in the said University, where I saw
for the first time, certain apparatus, constituting his ElectroMagnetic Telegraph. The invention at that time consisted of
the following pieces of apparatus."
Here the witness gives a full description of the apparatus,
and of its operation, and of the result, and this result was the
making of the permanent and legible record. And.

72

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse el. al.

This was the state of the invention in January, 1836.
Thus far it had not been ascertained what was the limit of
the magnetic power, and therefore it was not known on what
length of wire it would be found of sufficient force to make the
record, and there had been no means devised of extending the
operation, further than the magnetic current of one battery would
be effectual. But this matter had not escaped the attention of
Mr. Morse, and he had been devising means for the supply of
whatever defect might be found in this respect.
He says: "Early in 1836, he procured fcrty feet of wire, and
putting it in circuit, found that his battery of one cup, was not
sufficient to work his instrument. This result suggested to him
the ')robability that the magnetism to be obtained from the
electric current would diminish in proportion as the circuit was
lengthened, so as to be insufficient for any practical purpose at
great distances; and to remove that probable obstacle to his
success, he conceived the idea of combining two or more circuits
together, each with an independent battery, makihg use of the
magnetism of the first to close and break the second; that of
the second to close and break the third, and so on.
"His chief concernm, therefore, in his subsequent experiments,
was to ascertain at what distance from the battery, sufficient
magnetism could be obtained to, vibrate a piece of metal to be
used for that purpose, knowing that if he could obtain the least
motion at the distance of eight or ten miles, the ultimate object
was within his grasp."
A mode -of communicating the impuhe of one circuit to
another analogous to the receiving magnet now in use, was matured early in the spring of 1837, and then exhibited to Professor Gayle, his confidential friend. And,
This statement is also fully confirmed by the statement of
Dr. Gayle. He says:"It was early a question between Professor Morse and myself, where was the limit of the magnetic p,)wqr to move a lever ? I expressed a doubt whether a lever could be moved by
this power at the distance of 20 miles, ,and my settled conviction was, that it could not be done with sufficient fore. to
mark characters on paper at 100 miles distance. To this, Professor Morse was accustomed to reply, "if I can succeed in
working a magpet ten miles, I can go arourd the globe.' The
chief anxiety, at this stage of the invention, was to ascertain the
utmost limits at which he, Morse, could work or move a lever
by magneLic power. He often said to me,-' It matters not how
delicate the movement may be, if I can obtain it at all, it is all
I want.' Professor Morse often referred to the. number of stations which might be required, and which he observed would

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

73

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

add to the complication and expense. The said Morse always
expressed his confidence of success in propagating magnetic
power through any distance of electric conductors which cfrcumstances might render desirable. His plan was thus often
explained to me: 'Suppose,' said Professor MLIorse, 'that in experimenting on twenty miles of wire, we should find that the
power of magnetism is so feeble that it will but move a lever
with certainty a hair's breadth, that would be insufficient, it
may be, to write or to print, yet it would be sufficient to close
and break another, or a second circuit 20 miles further, and this
second circuit could be made in the same manner, to close and
break a third circuit, and so on around the globe.'
" This general statement of the means to be resorted to, now
embraced in what is called the Receiving .liagnet, to render
practical, writing or printing by telegraph, through long distances, was shown to me more in detail, early in the spring of
the year 1837, (one thousand eight hundred and thirty-seven,)
and I am enabled to approximate the date very nearly, ffom an
accident that occurred to me, in falling on the ice formed of
late snow in the spring of that year.
4CThe accident happened on the occasion of removing to
Professor Morse's rooms in the New York University, some
pieces of apparatus to prepare a temporary receiving magnet.
"The apparatus was arranged on a plan substantially as indicated in the drawings on sheet 2, accompanying this affidavit.
1 is a battery at one terminus of a line of conductors representing 20 miles in length, from one pole of which the conductor
proceeds to the helix of an electro-magnet at the other terminus;
(the helix forming part of the conductor) ; from thence it returns
to the battery, and terminating in a mercury cup o, from the
contiguous mercury cup p, a wire proceeds to the other pole of
the battery. When the fork of the lever c, unites the two cups
of mercury, the circuit is complete, and the magnet b, is charged
and attracts the armature of the lever d, which connects the circuit of battery 2 in the same manner, which again operates in
turn lever c, twdnty miles further, and so on.
" This I depose and say, was the plan then and there revealed
and shown to me by the said Professor Morse, and which, so far
part of his Electro-Magas I know, has constituted an essential
the present time."
netic Telegraph from that date till
The diagram referred to by the witness, is attached to the deposition, and exhibits the combination of the circuits of electricity claimed by Mr. Morse, as a part of his invention. Their
construction is fully described, and their operation having been
witnessed by the deponent, is described in his deposition. And,
This was the state of the invention early in the spring of 1837.
VOL. xv.

7

1j

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. 'Morse et al.

It fully appears that the completing of the invention had been
retarded by the want of means by Mr. Morse. But in the spring
of this year he appears to have been excted by the publication
of an account of the invention of a telegraph by two French gentlemen, M. Gonon and Servel, which it was at first apprehended,
from the terms of its announcement, was no other than the
Electro-Magnetic Telegraph; but which afterwards turned out
to be only a form of the common telegraph formerly in use, and
he consented to a notice being taken in one of the newspapers
of New York, of his invention, and renewed and increased his
exertions to perfect and demonstrate its great superiority and
value.
He was assisted by his fellow Professor, Dr. Gayle, in trying
experiments, and in consideration thereof, and of his further assistance in such work, he' presented him an interest in the invention, and by the united work of the two, from April to September, they were enabled to exhibit it in an improved form.
In the latter part of August, Dr. Gayle states the operations
of the instrument were shown to numero us visitors, in the University. And he continues:
"It was on Saturday, the second day of September, 1837,
that Professor Dauberry, of the .English Oxford University, being on a visit to this country, was invited, with a few friends,
to see the operations of the Telegraph in its then rude form, in
the Cabinet of the New York City University, where it then
had been put up, with a circuit of 1,700 feet of copper wire,
stretched back and forth in that long room. I well remember
that Professor Dauberry, Professor Torrey, and Mr. Alfred Vail,
were present among others. This exhibition of the Telegraph,
although of very rude and imperfectly constructed machinery,
demonstrated to all present, the practicability of the invention;
and it resulted in enlisting the means, the skill, and the zeal of
Mr. Alfred Vail, who early the next week called at the rooms
and had a more perfect explanation from Professor Morse, of
the character of the invention."
" The doubt to be dispelled in Mr. Vail's mind, as he
then stated, and has since frequently stated, was, whether the
power by magnetism could be propelled to such a distance as
to be practically effective. This doubt was dissipated in a few
minutes' conversation with Professor Morse; and I have ever
been under the full conviction that it was the means then disclosed by Professor Morse to Mr. Vail, to wit, the plan of
repeating the power of magnetism at any distance required,
which I have stated, that induced Mr. Alfred Vail and his
brother, George. Vail, at once to interest themselves in the invention, and to furnish Professor Morse with the means, mateiiaL and labor for an experiment on a lati;er scale."
And.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly

t

75

aL v. Morse et al.

This was the state of the invention in September, 1837.
Mr. Morse accordingly proceeded to have constructed a new,
larger, and more perfect instrument for exhibition on an application for a patent to Washington.
Caveat.
In the mean time, on the - day of October, 1837, in order to
protect his right to his invention, he filed his caveat in the Patent Office.
It is in these words:
To the C'ommissioner of Patents.
The petition of Samuel F. B. Morse, . . . represents :-That
"

your petitioner has invented a new method of transmitting and
recording intelligence by means of electro-magnetism, which
he denominates The American Electro-Magnetic Telegraph,
and which he verily believes has not been known or used prior
to the invention thereof by your petitioner. Your petitioner
further states, that the machinery for a full, practical display of
his new invention is not yet completed, and he therefore prays
protection of his right till he shall have matured the machinery;
and desires that a caveat for that purpose may be filed in the
confidential archives of the Patent Office, and preserved in
secrecy, according to the terms and conditions expressed in the
act of Congress in that case made and provided; he having
paid twenty dollars into the Treasury, and complied with other
provisions of the said act.
New York, Sept. 28th, 18372
These are the specifications annexed to the caveat:
"The nature of my invention consists in laying an electric or
galvanic circuit or conductors of any length to any distance.

These conductors may be made of any metal, such as copper
or iron wire, or strips of copper or iron, or df cords or twine, or
other substances, gilt, silvered, or covered with any metal leaf,
properly insulated in the ground, or through or beneath the
water, or through the air, and by causing the electric or galvanic
current to pass through the circuit, by means of any generator
of electricity, to make use of the visible signs of the presence
of electricity in any part of the said circuit, to communicate
any intelligence from one place to another.
"To make the said visible signs of electricity available for
the purpose aforesaid, I have invented the following apparatus,
namely:
"First A system of signs, by which numbers, and consequently words and sentences, are signified.

76

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Morso et al.

" Second. A set of type adapted to regulate and communicate the signs, with cases for convenient keeping of the type,
and rules in which to set up the type.
" Third. An apparatus called a Port Rule, for regulating the
movement of the type rules, which rules, by means of the type,
in their turn regulate the times and intervals of the passage of
electricity.
"1Fourth. A register, which records the signs permanently.
"Fifth. A dictionary or vocabulary of words, numbered and
adapted to this system of telegraph.
"Sixth. Modes of laying the conducto:rs, to preserve them
from injury."
Here is a description of each of the articles of the invention,
after which he concludes in these words:
"1What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent, and to protect for one year, is a method of recording permanently electrical signs, which, by means of metallic
wires, or other good conductors of electricity, convey intelligence between two or more places."
The new instrument, which Mr. Morse was enabled to have
constructed by his arrangement with Mr. Vail, was completed
in the latter end of this year, and in the succeeding February,
1838, it was exhibited in the Franklin Institute at Philadelphi%
where it operated with success through a circuit of ten miles of
wire; and a committee of the Institute made a report of its
success.
It was thence removed to the city of Washington, where it
was publicly exhibited in the hall of the House of Representatives, and a committee having been appointed to examine it,
made a favorable report, and recommended an appropriation of
thirty thousand dollars, to have effectually tested the utility of
the invention. And,
This was the state of the invention early in the spring of
1838.
Petitionfor Patent and its Specications,
The caveat was followed, on the 7th of April, 1838, by the
petition of Mr. Morse for the patent. It is to this effect:
"Be if known, that I Samuel F. B. Morse, of the city, county,
and State of New York, have invented a new and useful machine and system of signs for transmitting intelligence between
distant points, by the means of a new application and effect of
electro-magnetism, in producing sounds and signs, or either,
and also for recording permanently, by the sc~me means and application and effect of electro-magnetism, any signs thus pro-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

77

O'Reilly ct al. v. Morse et al.

duced, and representing intelligence, transmitted as before named,
between distant points, and I denominate said invention the
American Electro-Alagnetic Telegraph, of which the following
is a full and exact description, to wit:
"It consists of the following parts: First, Of a circuit of
electric or galvanic conductors from any generator of electricity
or galvanism, and of electro-magnets at any one or more points
in said circuits."
Here he gives the several parts of which his invention consisted, and adds a long description of each of them, and then
sums up what he had affirmed he had himself invented, in these
words:
"What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure bybletters-patent, is as follows:
"1st.The formation and arrangement of the several parts of
mechanism constituting the type rule, the straight port rule, the
circular port rule, the two signal levers, and the register lever,
and alarm ]ever with its hammer, as combining, respectively
with each of said levers, one or more armatures of an electromagnet, and as said parts are severally described in the foregoing specification.
"2ndly. The combination of the mechanism constituting the
recording cylinder, and the accompanying rollers and train
wheels, with -he formation and arrangement of the several
parts of mechanism, the formation and arrangement of which
are claimed as above, and as described in the foregoing specification.
"3dly. The use, system, formation, and arrangement of type
and of signs, for transmitting intelligence between distant points,
by the application of electro-magnetism, and metallic conductors combined with mechanism, described in the foregoing specification.
"4thly. The mode and process of breaking, by mechanism,
currents of electricity or galvanism in any circuit of metallic
conductors, as described in the foregoing specification.
"5thly. The mode and process of propelling and connecting
currents of electricity or galvanism ift and through any desired
number of circuits of metallic conductors, from any known
generator of electricity or galvanism, as described in the foregoing specification.
"6th. The application of electro-magnets by means of one
or more circuits of metallic conductors, from any known generator of electricity or galvanism, to the several levers in the
machinery described in the foregoing specification, for the purpose of imparting motion to said levers and operating said ma70

78

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse ,et al.

chinery, and for transmitting, by signs and sounds, intelligence
between distant points, and simultaneously to different points.
"7thly. The mode and process of recording or marking permanently signs of intelligence transmi;ted between distant
points and simultaneously to different points, by the application
and use of electro-magnetism or galvanism, as described in the
foregoing specification.
A\
"8th. The combination and arrangement of electro-magaets,
in one or more circuits of metallic conductors, with armatures
of magnets, for transmitting intelligence by signs and sounds,
or either, between distant points, and to different points simultaneously.
"9th. The combination and mutual adaptation of the several
parts of the mechanism and system of type and of signs, with
and to the dictionary or vocabulary of words, as described in
the foregoing specification."
It appears that no objection was found to the issuing of the
patent immediately, except that there had not been filed with
the specifications a duplicate set of the.drawings, and that the
commissioner wrote in answer tZ an application for it, to this
effect, on the 1st of May.
in Engaiudd and France.
But-Mr. Morse had conceived a hope, that he might secure a
consideration for the use of his invention -in foreign countries,
as well as in the United States, and on the 15th of May he returied this answer to the commissioner, and departed the naxt
day for Liverpool:
"Niew York City University, M11ay 15, 1838.
U HON. HENRY L. ELLSWbRTH.

"DEAR Sin, - Excuse the delay in answering your letter of
the 1st instant, relative to a duplicate set of drawings for my
letters-patent: May I ask the favor of you to delay issuing the
letters-patent until you hear from me in Europe, as I fear issuing them here will at present interfere with my plans abroad.
"I sail to-morrow in the ship Europe :or Liverpool. Farewell."
In England a patent was refused to the American inventor,
-on the ground that some description of his Invention-the
substance of which will appear hereafter--had been published
in the London Magazine.
But he was otherwise received in France.
In the French Academy of &ience.
He communicated a description of his. invention, and exhi-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

79

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

bited the instrument in operation, before the French Academy
of Sciences, on the 10th of September, 1838. And,
This is the account of the invention published in the "Gomptes
Zendus," the weekly journal of the Academy:
"Applied htPsics.-Electro-Magnetie Telegraph of Mr. Morse,
Professor in the University of New York."
"The instrument has been put in operation under the eyes of
the Academy. The following is a literal translation of a large
portion of the notice delivered by Mr. Morse to the Perpetual
Secretaries :
" Mr. Morse conceives that his instrument is the first practicable application which has been made of electricity to the construction of a telegraph.
" This instrument was invented in October, 1832, whilst the
author was on his way from Europe to America, in the packet
ship Sully. The fact is attested by the captain of the ship and
several of the passengers. Among the number of the latter,
was Mr. Rives, the Mirister of the United States near the
French government.
(Here is given the account of Mr. Rives and Captain Pell,
already set out. After which the account proceeds.)
"The idea of applying galvanism to the construction of
telegraphs, is not new; Dr. Coxe, a distinguished citizen of
Philadelphia, makes mention of it in a note inserted by him in
February, 1816, in the Annals of Dr. Thompson, page 162,
First Series: but he did not give any means of effecting it.
" Since the period to which the invention of Mr. Morse's
telegraph goes back, other arrangements, founded on the same
principles, have been announced, of which the most celebrated
are those of Mr. Steinheil, of Munich, and of Mr. Wheatstone,
of London. They differ very much in mechanism.
"The American Telegraph employs but one circuit,* the following is an abridged description of it:
"At the extremity of the circuit where the news is to be
received, is an apparatus called the Register. It consists of
an electro-magnet, the wire covering of which forms the prolongation of the wire of the circuit.
"The armature of this magnet is attached to the end of a
small lever, which at its opposite extremity holds a pen; under
this pen is a ribband of paper which moves forward as required)
v " Suppose the places to be put in communication with each other occupy the
three angles of a triangle, tie four angles of a quadrilateral, or certain points of a
line inclosing a space, a single wire passing through all those points would be sufllcient, at least according to teory."

SUPREME
O'Reilly et al. v.

COURT.
Mlorse et al.

by means of a certain number of wheels. At the other extremity of the circuit, that is to say, at the station from which the
news is to be sent out, is another apparatus called the Port
Rule; it consists of a battery or generator of galvanism, at the
tv 'o poles of which, the circuit ends; near the battery a portion
of this circuit is broken; the two extremities disjoined, are
plunged into two cups of mercury near each other.
"By the aid of a bent wire attached to the extremity of a
little lever, the two cups may be, at will, placed in connection
with each other, or left separated; thus the circuit is completed
and interrupted at pleasure. The movement of the mechanism
is as follows:
"When the circuit is complete the magnet is charged; it
attracts the armature, the movement of which brings the pen
into contact with the paper. When the circuit is interrupted,
the magnetism of the horseshoe ceases, the armature returns
to its first position and the pen is withdrawn from the paper.
When the circuit is completed and broken rapidly in succession, mere dots are produced upon the moving paper; if, on the
contrary, the circuit remain complete for a certain length of
time, the pen marks a line, the length of which is in proportion
to the time during which the circuit remadns complete. This
paper presents a long interval of blank iU the circuit remain
interrupted during some considerable time. These points, lines,
and blanks, lead to a great variety of combinations. By means
of these elements, Professor MIorse has constructed an alphabet
and the signs of the ciphers. The letters may be written with
great rapidity, by means of certain types which the machine
causes to move with exactness, and which give the proper
movements to the lever bearing the pen. Forty-five of these
characters may be traced in one minute.
" The register is under the control of the person who senas
the news. In fact, from the extremity called the Port Rule, the
mechanism of the register may be set in motion and stopped at
will. The presence of a person to receive the news is, therefore, not necessary, though the sound of a bell which is rung by
the machine, announces that the writing is about to be begun.
" The distance at which the American Telegraph has been
tried, is ten miles English, or four post leagues of France. The
experiments have been witnessed by a committee of the Franklin Institute of Philadelphia, and by a committee appointed by
the Congress of the United States. The reports of these committees, which we have not copied, are extremely favorable.
The committee of Congress recommended the appropriation of
thirty thousand dollars."

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

81

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

Frencli Patent,1838.
A patent was accordingly granted to Mr. Morse by the French
government, but it yielded him no pecuniary profit.
It is dated on the 20th August, 1838, and was delivered to
him on the 30th October afterwards. But,
The law of France required the invention to be put into use
in two years, and on failure, the exclusive privilege of the
patentee was forfeited. Mr. Morse had not the means of complying with the condition, and he returned home in 1838, with
the hope of inspiring in his own countrymen sufficient confidence in his great invention. But the embarrassed condition
of the country caused him to despair of success at that time,
and being compelled to betake himself again to his pencil, he
made no farther movement until the succeeding year.
American Patent, 1840.
On recurring to his former application for his patent, which
had remained on the files of the office, the duplicate set of his
drawings were still wanting; but having supplied this, and
complied with some other directions of the Commissioner, the
patent was issued.
It was sealed, and bears date June 20th, 1840.
The specifications filed in 1838, on the application for the
patent, are annexed to it as part thereof. These specifications,
or so much of them as may be necessary, will be set out hereafter, before or when they become the subject of discussion,
But,
The confidence of the capitalists in an invention so extraordinary, and one-promising such incredible results, could not be
inspired, and the patentee was not able, himself, to construct a
line of telegraphs, and introduce it into actual use, and he
again applied to the Congress of the United States. This
resulted in the appropriation of thirty thousand dollars, accord.
ing to the recommendation of the committee in 1838, for the
purpose of testing the practicability and utility of the system,
under the superintendence of Mr. Morse. And,
This resulted in the construction of the line of telegraph from
Baltimore to Washington, and a complete demonstration of
the practicability and great public utility of his invention.
And,
This was the state of the invention in June, 1844, twelve
years after its conception.
Efforts were then made for the extension and multiplication
of its advantages, but difficulties were encountered in the introduction and establishment of an affair of such novelty, and

82

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

requiring such a large amount of capital, and some time was
necessary to overcome them.
The exertions were, however, continued, and with the success
which the progress in the establishment of the telegraphs stated
in the bill exhibits. And,
In the mean time, as will be presently seen, Mr. Morse continued his exertions to improve and perfect this great invention.
1840 Patent Reissued, 1846.
In January, 1846, the specifications of the invention and
description of the mode of its operation having been supposed
to be in some respects, defective, the patent was surrendered,
and a new patent taken out in its stead.
The specifications annexed to this patent will be adverted to
hereafter. It will be sufficient, for the present, to state that, in
the summing up of what the patentee affirmed he had invented,
there is found one article corresponding to the fifth and some
of the other clauses in the specifications of the patent of 1840.
He says,
"I also claim the combination of two or more circuits of
galvanism or electricity, generated by independent batteries, by
means of electro-magnetism, as above described."
It appears that, originally, the design wa3 that this part of
the invention was to be resorted to only in case the galvanic
current of one battery should be found insufficient on a long
line, to afford the motive power necessary to work the register
and record the intelligence, and it does not appear that it had
been, before this date, ascertained that the one battery and
circuit would not be sufficient for any distance.
Patent of 1846 for ReNv Imnprovement.
But, on the 16th April, 1846, Mr. Morse applied for, and obtained another patent for an improvement on his own original
invention. And,
It appears from his representations, contained in the specifications annexed to this patent, that it had then been ascertained
that the galvanic current generated by one battery, would be
sufficient to continue the electric current on any length of line,
and afford sufficient motive power to open and close the battery; but that it would not be sufficient,. at any considerable
distance, to work the register and make the record, unless this
battery was made of great magnitude; and that by sucb battery
the expense of the operation would be greatly increased.
He had, therefore, contrived what he called a receiver or
receiving magnet, worked by a local battery, or battery situated

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

83

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse ot al.

at the place to which the intelligence is transmitted, by which a
second, but short, local circuit, connected with the main circuit,
was opened and closed, and sufficient force given to the register
to make the record.
The second patent is for this, and for other improvements,
which he sums up in these words:
99What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is the receiving magnet, or a magnet, having a
similar character, that sustains such a relation to the register
magnet, or other magnetic contrivances for registering, and the
length of the current or telegraphic line as will enable me to
accomplish, with the aid of a main galvanic battery, and the
introduction of a local battery, such motion or power for registering as could not be obtained otherwise, without the use of a
much larger galvanic battery.
I"I claim, as my invention, the use of a local battery and
magnet, in combination with a battery and magnet connected
with the main line or lines of conductors for the purpose above
specified.
"I also claim the combination of the apparatus connected
-with the clock-work, for setting off the paper and stopping it
with the pen lever, [M].

"I also claim the combination of the points affixed in the
pen lever, with the grooved roller, [N] for marking on paper as
above described."

But, on the 13th June, 1848, on the supposition there were
some defects in the specifications of each of these two patents
then extant, they were both surrendered and cancelled, and new
patents obtained in the stead of each respectively. -And,
These are the patents upon which the exclusive right to the
employment of the telegraph now before us, is claimed by the
complainant. But,
It is necessary, to a fair and intelligible statement and discus.
sion of the case, that large portions of the schedules be set out
in their own words.
1840 Patent Reissued 1848.
The patent itself, which is a reissue of the patents of 1846,
which was a reissue of the original patent of 20th June, 1840,
will be given at length, because the terms of it will be the subject of discussion hereafter, in connection with the statute. It
is in the following words:

Tim

UNITED STATES OF AmERICA,

To all to whom these letters-patent shall come:
'Whereas, Samuel F. B. Morse, Poughkeepsie, New York,

84

SUPREME CO.URT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse ot al.

has alleged that he has invented a new and useful improvement
in the mode of communicating information by signals, by the
application of electro-magnetism, (for which letters-patent were
granted on the 20th June,- 1840, which lktters-patent were surrendered and rescinded on the 15th day of January, 1846, which
last letters-patent are hereby cancelled on account of a defective
specification,) which he states has not been known or used before his application; has made oath that he is a citizen of the
limited States, that he does verily believe that he is the original
and first inventor or discoverer of the said improvement, and that
the same has not, to the best of his knowledge and belief, been
previously known or used; has paid into the treasury of the
United States the sum of fifteen dollars, and presented a petition to the Commissioner of Patents, signifying a desireof obtaining an exclusive property in the said improvement, aud
praying that a patent may be granted for that purpose.
These are therefore to grant, accordirg to law, to the said
Samuel F. B. Morse, his heirs, administrators, or assigns, for the
term of fourteen years from the twentieth day of June, one
thousand eight hundred and forty, the full and exclusive right
and liberty of making, constructing, using, and vending to others
to be used, the said improvement- a description whereof is
given in the words of the said Samuel F. B. Morse, in the schedule hereunto annexed, and is made part of these presents.
The schedule annexed is in these words:
To all to whom these presents shall come:
Be it known that 1, Samuel F. B. Morse, now of ..........
the State of New York, have invented a new and useful apparatus for, and a system of, transmitting intelligence between
distant points by means of electro-magnetism, which puts in
motion machinery for producing sounds or signs, and recording
said signs upon paper or other suitable material, which invention I denominate the American Electro-Magnetic Telegraph, and
that the following is a full, clear, and exact description of the
principle or character thereof, which distinguishes it from all
other telegraphs previously known; and of the manner of making and constructing said apparatus, and of applying said system, reference being had to the accompanying drawings making part of this specification ........
Here follows a description of the instruments, and of the mode
of their operation. which will be omitted here and adverted to
hereafter.
These particular specifications and descriptions completed,
the patentee sums up what he intends it should be understood

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

85

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

he had and had not invented; and after disclaiming.all pretensions to the invention of what he says was before kitown,
He specifies what he affirms he had himself discovered or invented, and thus designates his improvement or improvements,
a description whereof he had just before given in this his schedule, and which is made part of the patent.
" First. Having thus fully described my invention, I wish it
to be understood that I do not claim the, use of the galvanic
current, or current of electricity, for the purpose of telegraphic
communications, generally; but what I specially claim as my
invention and improvement, is making use of the motive power
of magnetism, when developed by the action of such current or
currents, substantially as set forth in the foregoing description
of the first principal part of my invention, as means of operating
or giving motion to machinery, which may be used to imprint
signals upon paper or other suitable material, 6r to produce
sounds in any desired manner, for the purpose. of telegraphic
communication at any distances.
" The only ways in which the galvanic currents had been
proposed to be used, prior to my invention and improvement,
were by bubbles resulting from decomposition, and the action
or exercise of electrical power upon a magnetized bar or needle;
and the bubbles and deflections of the needles, thus produced,
were the subjects of inspection, and bad no power, or were not
applied to record the communication. I therefore characterize
my invention as the first recording or printing telegraph by
means of electro-magnetism.
" There are various known modes of producing motion by
electro-magnetism, but none of these had been applied prior to
my invention and improvement, to actuate or give motion to
printing or recording machinery, which is the chief point of my
invention and improvement.
"Second. I also claim as my invention and improvement,
the employment of the machinery called the register or recording instrument, composed of the train of clock-wheels, cylinders,
and other apparatus, or their equivalent, for removing the material upon which the characters are to be imprinted, and for
imprinting said characters, substantially as set forth in the foregoing description of the second principal part of my invention.
" Third. I also claim, as my invention and improvement,
the combination of machinery herein described, consisting of the
generation of electricity, the circuit of conductors, the contrivance for closing and breaking the circuit, the electro-magnet,
the pen or contrivance for marking, and the .machifiery for sustaining and moving the paper, altogether constituting one apVO,

xv.

8

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse ot al.

paratus of telegraphic machinery, which I denominate the American Eleofro-Magnetic Telegraph.
I also claim as my invention, the combination
5' Fourth.
of two or more galvanic or electric circuits, with independent
batteries, substantially by the means herein described, for the
purpose of obviating the diminished force of electro-magnetism
in long circuits, and enabling me to command sufficient power
to put in motion registering or recording machinery at any distance.
" Fifth. I claim, as my invention, the system of signs, consisting of dots and spaces, and of dots, spaces, and horizontal
lines,-for numerals, letters, words, or sentences, substantially as
herein set forth arid illustrated, for telegra-ahic purposes.
"Sixth. I also claim as my inention the system of signs,
consisting of dots and spaces, and of dots, spaces, and horizontal lines, substantially as herein 'set forth and illustrated, in combination with machinery for recording them, as signals for
telegraphic purposes.
"Seventh. I also claim as my invention, the types, or their
equivalent, and the type rule and post rule, in combination with
the signal lever or its equivalent, as herein described, for the
purpose of breaking and closing the circuit of galvanic or electric conductors.
"Eighth. I do not propose to limit myself to the specific machinery, or parts of machinery, described in the foregoing specifications and claims; the essence of my invention being the use of
the motive power of the electric or galvamc current, which I call
electro-magnetism, however developed, for making or printing
intelligible characters, letters, or signs, at any distances, being a
new application of that power, of which I claim to be the first
inventor or discverer."
184-6 Patent Reissued 1848.
This patent is the- reissue of the patent of April, 1846, and
is for a new and useful improvement in "electro-magnetic telegraphs." If'grants the exclusive use to the patentee for the term of
fourteen years, from the eleventh day of April, 1846, and refers in
the common form to the schedule annexed for the specifications
of the improvement. This schedule is in these words:
.have
"Be it known that I, Samuel F. B. Morse ......
invented a new and useful improvement in the Electro-Magnetic
Telegraph, and I do hereby declare that the following is a full,
clear, and exact description of the object, construction, and
operation thereof, reference being had to the accompanying
dravings, and making part of the same.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

" Object of the invention.
" The original and final object of all telegraphing, is the communication of intelligence at a distance by signs or signals.
"Various modes of telegraphing, or making signs or signals
at a distance, have for ages been in use. The signs employed
heretofore have had one quality in common. They are evanescent- shown or heard a moment, and leaving no trace of their
having existed. The various modes of these evanescent signs
have been by beacon fires of different characters, by flags, by
balls, by reports of firearms, by bells heard from a distant position, by movables, arms from posts, &c.
"I do not, therefore, claim to be the inventor of telegraphs generally. The electric telegraph is a more recent kind of telegraph,
proposed within the last century, but no practical plan was devised until about sixteen years ago. Its distinguishing feature
is the employment of electricity to effect the same general result of communicating intelligence at a distance by signs or
signals.
"The various modes of accomplishing this end by electricity
have been,
"The employment of common or machine electricity, as early
as 1787, to show an evanescent sign by the divergence of pith
balls.
" The employment of common or machine electricity, in 1794,
to show an evanescent sign by the electric spark.
" The employment of voltaic electricity, in 1809, to show an
evanescent sign by the evolution of gas bubbles, decomposed
from solution in a vessel of transparent glass.
"The employment of voltaic electricity in the production of
temporary magnetism, in 1820, to show an evanescent sign by
deflecting a magnet or compass needle.
"The result contemplated from all these electric telegraphs
was the production of evanescent signs or signals only.
"I do not, therefore, claim to have first applied electricity to
telegraphing for the purpose of showing evanescent signs and
signals.
" The original and final object of my telegraph is to imprint'
characters at any distance as signals for intelligence; its object
is to mark or impress them in a permanent manner.
"To obtain this end, I have applied electricity in two distinct
ways. 1st. I have applied, by a novel process, the motive power
of electro-mnagnetism, or magnetism produced by elctricity, to
operate machinery for printing signals at any distance. 2dly.
I have applied the chemical .efliects of electricity to print signals
at any distance.
"The apparatus or machine with which I mark or imprint

SUPRIEME COURT.

88

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

signs or
. letters-for telegraphic purposes at a distance, I thus decribe "
Here follows a description of the instruments, and of how
they are employed. After which the patentee sums up, and
specifies what he affirms he had invented, and desires to have
secured to him by the grant, in these words:
" First. What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by
letters-patent, is the employment, in a main telegraphic circuit,
of a device or contrivance called the receiving magnet, in combination with a short local independent circuit or circuits, each
*having a register and register magnet, or other magnetic contrivahces, for registering; and sustaining such a relation to the
register magnet, or other magnetic contrivances for registering,
and to the length of circuit of telegraphic line, as will enable me
to obtain, with the aid of a galvanic battery and main circuit,
And the intervention of a local battery and local circuit, such
motion or power for registering as could not be obtained otherwise without the use of a much larger galvanic battery, if at all.
"Second.. I also claim as n~y invention, the combination of
the apparatus called the self-stopping apparatus, connected with
the clock-work by the register, for setting said register in action,
and stopping it with the pen lever F, as herein described.
"Third. I also claim as my invention tfe combination of the
point or points of the pen and pen lever, or its equivalent, with
the grooved roller, or other equivalent device, over which the
paper,. or other material suitable for marking upon, may be,
made to pass for the purpose of receiving the impression of the
characters; by which means I am enabled to mark or print
signs or signals upon paper or other fabric, by indentation, thus
" dispensing with the use of coloring matter for marking, as specified in my letters-patent of January 15th, 1846."
But the Telegraph itself, constructed according to the specifications of the patents, and in actual use, having been exhibited
and given in proof, it is necessary, in order to put on paper the
ease which has been heard, that the instruments themselves be
described.
D.ESCRIPTION OF THE TELEGRAPH.

It consists of,-

1. The main circuit with its battery
-2. The key with the signal lever.
3 The local circuit with its battery.
4. The receiver, or mutator, with it electro-magnet.
5. The register, with its electro-magnet, pen lever, and grooved
roller.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

89

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

It will be observed, that in this description the relay magnet,
as it was called, by which the combination of the circuit was
originally effected, will not be found. It has been substituted
by the subsequently invented receiver or mutator, on the same
principle by which the main circuit is combined with each local
circuit, or circuit in the telegraph office, whereby sufficient motive power is obtained to work the register. And,
That the port rule is also absent. It has been supplied by
the improved register and pen lever, with its pen point and
grooved rollers in connection. And,
It will be observed that the telegraphic dictionary has been
also abandoned; and that the characters indented. by the pen
constitute an alphabet, differing in little else beside the figure
of the letters from the common alphabet; and which is therefore read, not by a peculiar dictionary, but as common manuscript.
Nothing occurred in the case which makes it necessary to describe the self-stopping apparatus.
The main circuit of conductors, in connection with the principle battery, and key with its pen lever, which operates uponit, may be thus described.
It is begun in a plate of copper buried in the ground under
the first telegraph office, and consists of these conductors:
A copper wire, having one end inserted in the copper plate, and
the other in one pole of the galvanic battery, in a room of the
office.

Another copper wire, with one end inserted in the other pole
of the battery, and after passed through the rooms as may be
corivenient, with the other end of it extended up and inserted
in and under one end of a short bar of brass, which is part of
the instrument called the key.
We will here stop the description of the circuit of conductors, and describe this instrument.
yewith its Signal Lever.
This key consists of a cross formed of two fiat bars of brass,
about two or three inches long, screwed down upon the table,
or upon a pedestal fixed upon the table; on each end of the arms
of this cross there rise similar bars, after the manner of the
sights of a surveyor's compass, about a couple of inches high.
These support the fulcrum of th& signal lever. This fulcrum
of the lever is a steel cylinder extended between the two upright bars on the arms of the cross, with its ends terminating in
axles extending through the bars near the upper ends, so that it
may be turned when the lever is worked.
The lever is a bar .of
8Sbrass fixed with its centre upon this ful-

90

SUPREM1B COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

crum. It is horizontal when at rest, and is kept in its position
by a spring fixed under its fulcrum and extended back. A sort
of button of brass is fixed immediately under the front end of
the lever, and in proximity to the foot of the cross; sb that
when the lever is pressed down it is brought into contact with
it and the end of a wire which is extended up through its centre. This button is so contrived that, by a short lever extended
from it, it is turned from or brought into cortact with the cross.
We now return to the circuit of conductors.
It is in and under the head of this cross that the wire from
the battery was inserted; and this bar constitutes the next conductor.
There are now here two conductors - one the conductor
when intelligence is not being transmitted from the office, and
the other when intelligence is being transmitted from the office.
When intelligence is not being transmitted, then, after this bar
of the key, the button having the brass wire through its centre
is.the conductor. But wx.hen the position of the button is so
changed that it is not in contact with this bar, then it is not the
next conductor, and the right and left hand arms of the cross
and the fulcrum are the next conductors, and the signal lever
pressed down and brought into contact with the button, is the
conductor to it and the wire projecting up through it.
When intelligence is to be transmitted Irom the office, the
operator changes the position of the buttcn, brings it out of
contact with the foot of the cross, and the circuit at this point
is broken, and the lever constituted the conductor next the button towards the key. The operator has then command of the
circuit for his operation. By pressing the key down into contact-with the button, the circuit.is closed; and the pressure off,
the circuit is broken. This produces the corresponding action
of the pen lever, which registers the intelligence he sends off.
We now return to the circuit of conductors.
The wire extended from the button is the next conductor. It
is copper, and is extended down under the table, and then up
through it near the pedestal of the receiving magnet, situated
on the table at a convenient distance from tae key, and inserted
in a brass standard near its upper end, which stands on one corner of the pedestal of this receiver, which will be presently described. And,
This standard is the next conductor.
The next is a small brass wire, extending from the foot of
this standard up through the pedestal into proximity to the
horseshoe magnet. This wire, prolonged and covered with
silk. is wound around the shanks of the horseshoe, first around
the one end ans then around the other, and made to constitute

DECEM£BER TERM!, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

the helices of the magnet; after which it is returned down
through the pedestal, and inserted in the foot of another standard on another corner of the pedestal of the magnet. And,
This standard is the next conductor.
The next, is the brass wire with one end inserted into the
standard near its upper end, and the other, after its extension
out of the office, united to the iron wire on the posts.
This iron wire is the next conductor to the next office. On
entering this office, it is united to the end of a copper wire,
which has its other end inserted in and under the head of the
cross of the key in the office. Thence the circuit is continued
through the instruments of this office as in the first office, when
it is again extended out upon the posts to another office; and
thus through any number, and over any distance, to the last
office, of the circuit. It is then, after being passed through the
instruments of this office, as in the other offices, extended down
and fastened in-a plate of copper in the ground.
The earth, it is said, constitutes the conductor from this copper-plate to the other, from which we set out, and thereby the
circuit is completed.
We will now return and describe the receiver, more properly
called the mutator.
Beceivig .Mag'net.
This magnet rests on the pedestal, which has been already
mentioned, eight or ten inches long, and four or five broad, with
the axis of its helices horizontal, and parallel to the sides of its
pedestal, and with what corresponds to the front part of the
horseshoe presented to the left, in proximity to the two standards
we passed on the circuit.
It is kept in its position by a brass tar extended across the
helices, near the heels of the horseshoe, and pressed, and kept
firmly upon them, by a screw extended down from either end,
into the pedestal.
Its heels present themselves to a horizontal armature of a movable upright lever, within their attractive power; andwhich, it will
be presently found, is one of the conductors of the local circuit.
This local circuit can now be described. It begins in a gal.
vanic battery in the office, and consists of these things:
A copper wire, with one end inserted in one pole of the local
battery in a room of the office, and the other end brought up
through the table, and screwed into an upright brass bar or
standard near its upper end, standing on the- back right hand
corner of the pedestal of the receiver.
The next conductor is this standard. And then,
A copper wire extended from its lower eiO under the pedestl,d

92

SUPREMfE COURT.
O'Reilly et al. i7. Morse et al.

and there connected with a steel cylinder; which constitutes
the fulcrum, on which stands the movabla lever already mentioned in describing the main circuit.
This cylinder is horizontal, parallel to the heels of the magnet but below them, is fixed in a channel across the pedestal;
and has its ends in sockets, in which it turns and allows the
lever which stands upon it, to move forward and back. And,
This lever is the next conductor.
It stands perpendicular, and is held in this position by a spiral
spring extended from behind it and holding it back against the
end of a screw, projected in like manner against its back; but
which, when the armature, fixed across it, is- attracted by the
'heels of the naghet, reidily consents to its motion forward, to
meet near its upper end- another conductor, -which will be presently described, and when the attraction is not, as quickly
withdraws it to its former position.
We will now return back to the local battery, and commence
at its other pole.
The first conductor thence, in this direction, is another copper
wire.
This has one end inserted in the battery, and after being
extended around, according to the situation of the room, has its
other end brought up under the table near the electro-magnet
of the register, where it is united to a small wire, which is the
next' conductor.
It is prolonged and wound on the horseshaoe bar, in like manner with the wire on the main circuit, and made to constitute
the helices of this magnet, and then has itf. other end fastened
to a large wire. And,
This wire is the next conductor.
It is extended under the table, and afterwards brought up,
and has its other end screwed into a brass standard, upon the
right-hand front or remaining corner of the pedestal of the
receiver. And this standard is the next conductor.
It is succeeded by a brass wire, extended from its lower end
under the pedestal, and brought up between the helices of the
receiving magnet, to the under side of the horizontal bar, which
we lately left extended across the helices near the heels of the
magnet, and there inserted in this bar.
Immediately over this end of this wire, and fixed upon this
horizontal bar, stands a perpendicular bar, which is the next
conductor. And,
The last conductor, is a brass screw, which passed through
this bar, near its upper end, and extended out horizontally from
it, presents its platina point to the movable lever, which we
lately left in describing the conductors from the other end of the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

93

O'Reilly et al, v. Morse et al.

battery, ready to close the circuit whenever attracted forward by
the heels of the magnet presented to its armature below.
When, by the act of the operator on his signal key, the main
circuit is complete or "closed," as it is called, the horseshoe is
instantly an electro-magnet, and the armature of the lever,
attracted towards, not to, its heels, the lever, is brought into
contact with the platina point of the brass screw, presented to
its front, and the local circuit of conductors is "closed;" and
the horseshoe whereon we just said tile wire of the local circuit
had formed the helices, being converted into an electro-magnet,
for the register, instantly acts upon the pen lever, in the register,
in the mode we will presently describe, and records the intelligence which the operator proposed.
This done, and the main circuit broken, the spiral spring
behind the lever, which had before readily assented to its attrac.
tion forward, as quickly withdraws it to its former position, and
awaits another signal.
Register, Pen Lever, and Grooved Bollers.
The register consists of a horseshoe magnet, the pen lever, a
spiral spring, the grooved rollers, and the clock-work, all fixed in
a proper frame upon a brass pedestal ten or twelve inches long,
and about half that breadth, fixed down upon the table at a
convenient distance from the other instruments.
The magnet is fixed on the right-hand end of the pedestal, the
axis of the helices perpendicular, and the heels upwards, presenting themselves to an armature of the pen lever within their
attraction above.
The pen lever is a brass bar. It rests in a horizontal position,
with one end extended to the right, across the heels of the
magnet, where its armature is fixed across it, and the other
extended to the left towards the rollers.
It has for its fulcrum a steel cylinder, fixed across its centre,
with its ends in sockets in the frame work. It is held to the
position by the spiral spring, extended from the lower end of a
bar fixed in, and extended down from, the centre of the fuldrum,
and thence extended back towards the magnet, and made fast,
which, by its facile extension, instantly assents to the action of
the lever with its pen ; and as quickly withdraws it.
The rollers are fixed each with its axis in the frame work, one
with its axis on a level with the lever, ,the other with its axis
over the line of the periphery next the lever of the lower roller.
The pen, fixed upon this end of its lever, and projected ftorward, presents its point upwards, in proximity to the centre of
this upper roller, in proper direction for action upon the paper
in its transit over it, when cast up by the attraction, down, of
the other end of the magnet.

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

The paper is guided from above this upper roller, and passed
around it, and between the two rollers, and by their revolution
is drawn forward at a rate suited to the action of the pen.
There is around each roller, under the paper and exactly
opposite the pen, a narrow groove of such depth that the pen
point, in making its indentations on the paper, does not extend
to the metal of the roller, whereby its point is preserved, and
the line of characters on the paper is kept from contact with
-either roller, and protected from being dimmed by the compressionof the paper, in its transit between 'them.
The revolution of the rollers is by the clock-work on the left.
The rollers having been put in motion, the electro-magnet
charged, the armature with that end of the lever attracted down,
and the other cast up, the pen with its point indents a character
upon the paper, and the magnet discharged, the spiral spring
has brought down the pen, and holds it in position for a repetition of the act.
But we will return to the signal key, or correspondent,
stationed in the distant office whence the intelligence is to be
transmitted, and follow it in its course and see it recorded.
The operator, having been put in possession of the intelligence, and broken the circuit in the lower conductors of his
key, and thereby made his signal lever a conductor of the- main
circuit, applies his hand upon the signal lever and presses it
down- upon the conductor below, the main circuit is instantly
closed, the horseshoe within the helices of this main circuit is
a magnet, the armature has drawn its movable lever into contact with the platina point, the local circuit is closed, the horseshoe within the helices of this circuit is an electro-magnet, the
armature of the pen lever. is upon its heels, the other end of the
lever has cast up the pen, and indented an intelligible character
upon the paper.
The operator's hand taken off, and the main circuit is broken,
the receiver within it is not a magnet, the movable lever has
been withdrawn, by its spring, from the pla:iha point, the local
circuit is broken, the register magnet is no longer a magnet, and
the pen has been sprung down from the paper, and stands ready
to repeat and add another character of the intelligence,
The operator's hand upon his lever, and another character is
added. And,
These are the characters recorded, and how they are read:
-- is A, - --- is B,---is C, - --is D, -is E, --- F, -- -is
is L, --- is
is K,is ,--G, ----isH, --isI, ---M,--is N,--i D, --- is P,----is Q, --- is R,---is S,isW,-----is X,----is-Y,
is V, --is T, --- is U, ------- is Z, -- - is &, and such is the alphabet.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

4,Then .---is 1,-..
.. is 2,----- is 3,-....is
is 7,----is 8, ---is 9,
is 5,------ is 6, ---is 0; and these are the numerals.
The holding down the lever an instant indented one dot, (-),
the holding-it longer made a dash (-) of a length corresponding to the time. The dots were made at distances corresponding
to the time the hand was held off the lever. And,
This is the Telegraph and its operations before us.
---

(Judge Monroe then proceeded to examine the law and evidence upon all other points in the case, and then passed" the
following decree.)
Decree of the Circuit Court, 12th November, 1849.
It is found and adjudged by the court that the ]etters-patent
of the United States to the complainant, Samuel F. B. Morse,
for his invention of a new and useful improvement in the mode
of communicating information by signals, by the application of
electro-magnetism, originally issued June 20th, 1840, but reissued on the 15th day of January, 1846, and afterwards finally
reissued on the 13th of June, 1848, in their bill exhibited and
read on the hearing of this cause, are valid and effectual acts of
the government; and that the complainants are thereby, and by
the assignments by them in theit bill alleged, vested with the
exclusive rights thereby granted. And
It is found and adjudged by the court, that the defendants
have, in those rights, disturbed the complainants as in their bill.
alleged; that they, the defendants, after the grant thereof to the
patentee, Samuel F. B. Morse, and his assiginments to his cocomplainants, and after the final reissue of the letters-patent
above mentioned, did, within the district of Kentucky and elsewhere, wrongfully construct, and unlawfully employ, a telegraph,
consisting of combined circuits of electricity, worked by the
motive power of electro-magnetism, substantially the same plan
of construction and principle of operation with the telegraiph of
the said Morse in his letters-patent described and specified; and
by which intelligence, which was in one station, was, by.the
defendants, transmitted to" other distant stations, by making
thereat a permanent record thereof in the alphabetical characters
described and specified in the letters-patent to the said Morse,
and did thereby violate and infringe the exclusive rights so
granted by the United States to him, the said Samuel F. B.
Morse, and invested in the complainants as above found; and
it is considered that the injunction heretofor granted herein
was rightfully avarded and enforced.
It appears, however, by the document itself, read by the com.

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Mlorse et al.

plainants among their proof, that the patentee, Samuel F. B.
Morse, had, on the 30th day of October, 18',, prior to the issuing of his original patent, awarded by the United States for his
original invention, obtained of the government of France a patent for the invention of his Electro-Magnetic Telegraph, in
principle and plan of construction the same with that described
in his said letters-patent so afterwards obtained of the United
States. And
It seems to the court that the exclusive right of the complainant, in respect to his original invention, is limited by this foreign patent to the term of fourteen years frcm its date.
It is therefore ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the defendants, their servants, and agents, be, and they are hereby, enjoined
and commanded that they, and each of them, do still desist, and
shall for and during the term of fourteen years from the :30th
day of October, 1839, altogether refrain, from all and every use
of the Electro-Magnetic Telegraph, which the complainants in
their bill charged was, by the defendants, employed in violation
of their rights, which, in its several forms is described in the
proofs of the cause, and denominated by the witness in the depositions, and by defendant, O'Reilly, in his answer, the Columbian Telegraph, in the transmission of intelligence which is
in one place to ano her distant place, by making thereat a permanent record in the alphabetical characters in the patent of
Samuel F. B. Morse for his original invention specified; or by
making thereat, with the action of the instrument which would
make such characters, alphabetical sounds, and out of them
composing such characters or words in the ordinary alphabet;
and from the using of such telegraph, or any part thereof, in any
other mode, in violation -of th e exclusive rights so granted by
the United States and vested in the complainants; and that they
shall, for and during the said term of fourteen years, refrain from
making, constructing, or vending to be used within the district
of Kentucky, any other telegraph consisting cf combined circuits
of electricity, worked, by the motive power of electro-magnetism,
on the plan and principle of the Electro-Magnetic Telegraph of
the complainant, Morse, described and specified in his letterspatent, by which intelligence shall or may be transmitted by
making, in the mode above stated, a record thereof in the said
alphabetical characters of the said Samuel F. B. Morse, or in an
alphabet formed on the same plan and principle, or by making
in such mode sounds, whereof such characters shall or may be
composed, in the violation and infringement of the exclusive
right of the complainants as they are above adjudged.
It is aiso found and adjudged by the court, that the letters.
patent of the United States to Samuel F.B. Morse, for his in-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v.

Mlorse

97

et al.

vention of "a new and useful improvexment in electro-magnetic
telegraph," originally issued on the 11th day of April, 1846, but
afterwards reissued on the 13th of June, 184S, with the amended
specifications of the improvements invented, which is in the bill
of the complainants exhibited, and made part of the record of
this cause, is a valid and effectual act of the government; and
that the complainants are thereby, and by the assignments -in
their bill alleged, vested with the exclusive rights thereby granted. And
It is found and adjudged, that the defendants have disturbed
the complainants in these their exclusive rights. 'It is found
that the defendants, before and after the issuing of the said last
mentioned letters-patent of the 13th June, 1848, in renewal of
the said former patent, did, within the district of Kentucky and
elsewhere, wrongfully cause to be constructed, and did unlawfully use and employ as a part of the Electro-Magnetic Telegraph,
denominated the Columbian Telegraph, an instrument denominated by them the mutator, in plan of construction, principle of
operation, and in the purpose accomplished by it, substantially.
the same with the improvement described and specified in the
said last mentioned letters-patent to the complainant, Morse,
which consists of the contrivance called, in his schedule to his
patent, the receiving magnet, and which is by this denomination
described and specified under the head of the first claim of the
improvements in his schedule. And
That they did, in like manner, cause to be constructed, and
unlawfully employ, as another part of the said Columbia Telegraph, certain other apparatus and instruments and combinations thereof, in plan of construction, principle of operation, and
purpose, substantially the same with the improvements of the
register invented by him, the said Samuel F. B. Morse, and in
the schedule described and specified as the third thing claimed
by him as his invention, consisting of the combination of the
point of the pen and pen lever, with the grooved roller over
which the paper is passed, and receives the indentations of his
alphabetical characters, and whereby is dispensed with the use
of the coloring material, as specified in the patent for the original
invention of the telegraph, first above mentioned, issued and
bearing date January 15th, 1846. And
It is found that the said telegraph, called the Columbia Telegraph, containing and consisting in part of the said two improvements of the said Morse, described and specified in his
said last mentioned letters-patent, was by the defendants employed, before and after the last issue of the said last mentioned
letters-patent, within the district of Kentucky and elsewhere,
in the transmission of intelligence in the mode above mentioned
VOL. ;v.

0

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

in violation and infringement of the exclusive right so granted
by the United States by these last mentioned letters-patent,
and held by the complainants as by thcm alleged and by the
court adjudged.
It is therefore ordered, and adjudged, and decreed, that the
defendants, their servants and agents, be and they are hereby
enjoined and commanded that they and each of them do still
desist, and shall forever, and during the term of fourteen years
from the eleventh day of April, eighteen hundred and forty-six,
altogether refrain from all and every use and employment of the
above-mentioned telegraphic instruments, denominated the mutator, in the combination with the other above-described instruments of such telegraph, or in any other combination on the
same plan and principle, in the transmission of intelligence in
the district of Kentucky. And
That they do still desist, and for and during the said term of
fourteen years, refrain from -all and every such employment in
the transmission of intelligence within the district of Kentucky,
of the above-mentioned improvement of tLe complainant, Morse,
in the register of his telegraph, whereby is accomplished the
making of his alphabetical characters before mentioned, described, and specified by indentation instead of by coloring matter,
in violation of the exclusive rights of complainants, by themi
held under the aforesaid letters-patent as above adjudged. And
That the defendants shall, for and during the said term of
fourteen years from the said eleventh day of April, eighteen
hundred and forty-six, refrain from constructing or vending to
be'employed in such transmission of intelligence, within the
-district of Kentucky, any of the above-mentioned improvements,
either the instrument denominated the mutator, the improved
register of said Morse, or any other of the improvements in the
Electro-Magnetic Telegraph, so described and specified in said
letters-patent as the invention of the said Samuel F. B. Morse,
and whereof the exclusive right is granted him; and that they
shall in no otherwise, for the term aforesaid, violate, or in anywise infringe, the aforesaid rights of the complainants within
said district of Kentucky. -And
It is ordered, that the complainants may have the proper writs
of execution on what is above decreed.
(The decree then went on to provide for damages, which part
is omitted.)
The defendants appealed from this decree.
The cause was argued in this court by Air. Gillet and Xlfr.
Chase for the appellants, and lessrs. Campbell and Hardibq of
Philadelphia, and Mr. Giford of New York for the appellees.

DECEMBER TERN,

1853.

99

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

It is impossible for the reporter to do more than merely state
the positions assumed by the respective counsel.
The counsel for the appellants contended
First. Morse's patent of 1840 is void, because it runs fourteen years from the date of its issue, instead of *thatlength of
time from the date of his French patent.
,Second. -In construing a patent, and deciding what are the
inventions patented thereby, the summing up is conclusive.
Nothing is patented but what'is expressly claimed, in the sumining up, as the invention.
Third. What is described in a patent and not claimed, whether invented by the patentee or not, is dedicated to the public,
and cannot be afterwards claimed as a part of his patent, in a
re-issue or otherwise.
Fo urthI. A patent void in part is void in whole, 'except when
otherwise provided by statute.
Fifth. An invention is not complete, so as to be patentable,
or to bar the obtaining a patent by another inventor, until it is
perfected and adapted to use.
Sixth. Where a patent is for a combination of parts, and not
for the different parts composing the combination, the use of
any of those parts less than the whole is not an infringement.
Seventh. Morse's patents of 1846 and 1848 are void, because
he was not the first inventor of the things patented, or of substantial and material parts thereof.
Eighth Morse's reissued patents, dated June 13, 1848, are
void, because he has not shown that the surrendered patents
were inoperative or invalid for defective specification, or otherwise, so as to confer on the commissioner, jurisdiction to make
such reissues. The surrendered patents being set out, disprove
any such jurisdiction.
A'nth. The patent of 1840, as secondly reissued, is void, because the commissioner had no authority to accept a second
surrender and make a second reissue.
Tenth. Morse's patent of 1840, as secondly reissued, is void,
because it is broader than the invention originally'patented.
Eleventh. Morse's patent of 1846 is void,
1. Because material parts of it had been known and in public use before his application.
The first claim covers the inventions for connecting circuits
used by Davy, Wheatstone, and Henry, in 1837.
2. Because the same was described by Henry in Silliman's
Journal, and in the London Mechanics' Magazine, containing
an account of Davy's invention; and by Vail, in giving Morse's
and others.
3. Because the same invention, or a substantial part thereof,

100

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse ct al.

was patented by Wheatstone, Davy, and Morse himself, prior to
his application for his patent of 1846.
This first claim in the reissue of the patent of 1846, is the same
thing as the fourth claim of the last reissue of the patent of 1846.
The account given by Henry and Moss shows that Henry's,
Wheatstone's, and Davy's, were the same as Morse's first claim
of the reissue of the patent of 1846.
Twelfth. Morse's reissue of 1846 is void, because it is broader
than the original.
1. He claims the employment of a receiving magnet, or its
equivalent, in combination with a short, local, independent circuit, having a register magnet, to obtain power.
There is no such claim in the original. :He there claimed the
invention of the receiving magnet, or registering contrivances,
which sustained certain *relations,as would enable him to obtain
power, &c., without mentioning a short, local, independent circuit. He now claims two short local circuits. The claim is materially enlarged.
2. His third claim is for a combination which includes the
pen lever or "its equivalent," and for any thing over which paper may be passed for the purpose of receiving the impression
of characters, &c., by indentation on paper and other fabrics,
dispensing with coloring matter, &c.
Here is a palpable enlargement of his claim.
3. His historical recital is an unauthorized addition, and not
necessary to perfect his specification.
Thirteenth. The surrender and reissue on account of a defective specification authorikes amendments only, and not changing
the specification into a new one, nor does it authorize new claims,
Fourteenth. In the second reissue of the letters of 1840,
Morse patents a principle or effect, and not; a machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or an improvement upon
either; and it is therefore void.
The counsel for tfie appellees considered the patents separately, viz.
Patent of 1840. Reissued 1848.
Patent of 1846. Reissued 1848.
Patent of 1840. Reissued 1848.
To this patent, and the claim under it, five defences are presented:
It is alleged by the appellants
I. That it is void by reason of an alleged error in date (i. e. not date of French patent.)
IL That the things claimed in the fifth, the sixth. and the
eighth claims are not patentable.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

101

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

III. That Morse was not the inventor of substantial parts of
the improvement as claimed.
IV. That the description in the specification is insufficient.
V. That the appellants do not infringe.
(Each one of these heads was examined separately. The
particular attention bestowed by the court to the following head,
renders the insertion of the view of the counsel proper.)
II. Are the 5th, 6th, and 8th Claims Patentable?
1. Of the 5th and 6th. The fifth, is a claim to the system
of signs, composed of dots, spaces, and horizontal lines, (susceptible of being variously combined, representing numerals, words,
and sentences,) for telegraphic purposes; being an improved instrumentality in the art of telegraphing by electricity or galvanism.
The sixth, is a claim to the art- consisting of the marking the
signs, composed of dots, spaces, and horizontallines, (susceptible
of being variously combined, representing numerals, words, and
sentences,) by closing and breaking a galvanic circuit more or
less rapidly for telegraphing; combined with machinery to record them.
An art is patentable by the act of 1836, and so is an improvement on it. Whittemore v. Cutter, 1 Gall. 478; Phillips on Patents, 102, 110; King v. Wheeler, 2 Barn. & Ald: 349; Crane
v. Price, Webster's P. C. 409; Seh. Bk. v. Kneass, 4 W. C. C.
R. 9 and 12; McClurg v. Kingsland, 1 Howard, 204; Curtis
on Patents, sect. 37; French v. Rogers, Opinion Judges Grier
and Kane; Pdmphlet, Kane, J., Parker v. Hulme, p. 7.
The art is distinct from the means employed in its exercise;
both may be, and under this patent are, patented.
II. Of the eighth claim.
This claim is declaratory, and is to the effect that, having been
the first to conceive and carry into effect a plan for imprinting
telegraphic characters by the power of electro-magnetism, he
negatives the idea that the mere instrumentalities described in
his patent constitute the whole of the invention claimed by
him, or even the most important part thereof, or that e intended
to surrender to the public the conception he had reduced to
practical utility, should anybody else be able to devise other
means for accomplishing the same end, by the use of the same
power, but claims it as his property.
He who discovers a principle and devises one mode by which
ae same can be rendered practically useful, is entitled to a pa,nt which shall protect him to the full extent of his invention
nd against all other devices for using it.

102

SUPREM

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

If Morse, therefore, was the first to discover that the power
of electro-magnetism could be used for the purpose of recording
telegraphic signs, and devised one practical mode for using it,
he may, by a general claim, secure to himself the right of so applying it, as well as the particular devices by which he did so.
London Jour. and Rep. Arts, 1850, p. 130; Jupe v. Pratt,
Webster's P. C. 145, 146; Forsyth's Patent, Webster's P. C.
96, 97; Crane v. Price, Webster's P. C. 409: 410 ; Park v. Little,
3 Wash. C. C. Rep. 197.
See the cases collected in Lund on Patents, Law Lib. Sept.
1851, p. 37, illustrating the proposition that the rights of the
patentee are not restricted to the particular application or emboditnent of his invention, but extend to the exclusion of other
like applications.
Judge Kane's opinion, Blanchard's case; Fr. Inst. Jour. 1847;
and Pamphlet, Parker v. Hulme, Judge Kane's opinion.
Patent of 1846. Reissued .848.
The defences suggested by the appellants to this patent are,
I. That the improvement is not sufficiently described, and
that the improvement is not sufficiently discriminated.
IL That it is for the same invention that was patented to
Morse in the patent of 1840.
III. That it was in use and on sale with patentee's consent,
before his application for a patent.
IV. That Morse was not the inventor.
As to the 4th head, the counsel for the appellees contended
that the following list was shown by the evidence to have been
invented by Morse:
1. He was the first person who employed. an electro-magnet
placed in a long circuit for telegraphic purposes.
2. He was the first person who devised suitable machinery for
recording, and adapted such machinery to an electro-magnet
placed in a long galvanic circuit.
3. He was the-first person who employed an electro-magnet
placed in a long galvanic circuit to open and close another long
galvanic circuit for telegraphic purposes.
4. He was the first person who employed: an electro-magnet
placed in a long galvanic circuit, to open and close a short local
circuit at a distance for telegraphic purposes.
5. He was the first person who placed in the course of a long
galvanic circuit at various distances apart, a series of electromagnets, to open and close, at one and the- rame time, a corresponding series of short recording circuits, by means of which
arrangement an operator at one -station could simultaneously
record at a series of distant telegraphic stations.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

6. He was the first person who adapted to an electro-magnet
placed in a long galvanic circuit, suitable machinery for recording the establishment and duration of a galvanic current through
such a long galvanic current.
7. He was the first person who devised a process or mode of
establishing and continuing at determinate intervals of time a
galvanic current through a circuit of conductors, and of record.
ing the establishment of sucd cuirent in dots and lines.
8. He was the first person who devised a system of signs
formed of the combination of dots and lines, and so applicable
to the above process of recording, as to render it available for
representing at a distance, letters, words, and sentences.
9. He was the first person who employed electro-magnetism,
when developed in the manner and by the means specified, to
produce distinguishable signsifor telegraphing.
10. He was the first person who adapted to an electro-magnet
a lever with an adjustable reacting spring, and adjustable stops
for limiting the play of such armature, and thus formed a receiving electro-magnet, susceptible of nice regulation so as to
operate equally with the varying force of the galvanic currents in
a long or main circuit.
11. He was the first person who combined such an electromagnet in a long circuit with a short recording circuit, to be
opened and closed by such electro-magnet.
12. He was the first person who devised and constructed an
apparatus or machine for telegraphing, consisting of the several
following parts, sustaining to each other the several following relations, and performing the several following functions respectively:
1. Amain circuit

whichcon- a long conductor ex- the func-'totransmitthe galvanic
current through its
tending through
tion of
sists of
several stations,
which is whole length when.
ever it is closed.
aa number of cups arranged along t h e
main conductor,

i

to supply the main conductor with a current
sufficient to work the
electro-magnets in its
course.

each of
a small metalic lever,
which conIsits of
4. Aseriesofroceiv"
an electro-magnet,
ing maguets
with lever, und re-

c

to break and close the
main circuit.

2. A main battery
series

3. Operating keys

acting spring,
5. Adjustingscrews

9

to closethe office circuit
when acurrentpasses

through the main cir' cuit.

movable screws to
regulate force of

to render receiving
magnets sensitive to

reacting spring and

varying force of main

play of lever, -

current.

104

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

6. Office circuits

a circuit of conduc. the 1mnc- o transmit the power
each of
which con- tors limited to each tlion of to mark the paper.
sists of

7. Office battery
series

office,

a certain number of
Grove cups at each
station,

whi,h is

69o enerate and supply
te
oice circuit with
a current of greater
force than the main
circuit current.

8. Marking appara- which con- a fine pointed piece of
sists of
iron, pen lever, and
tus
grooved roller,

to indent dots and lines
upon paper.

9. Registers

a series of clock-work
moved by a weight
regulated by a fly,

to move the paper uniformly under the
point of the pen.

10. Office magnets

eanelectro-magnet,

1. To develop the power
by which the pen
marks in the groove
of a roller.
2. To produce audible
distinguishable sounds.

11. Certain process

in establishing, continuing and interrupting a galvanic
current through the
main circuit at determinate intervals,

to record dots and lines
at one or many distant stations at the
will of a distant
operator.

12. A system of
signs

aots andlinesto represent the letters of
the alphabet and
numerals,

1. When applied to the
record, to render such
record intelligible.
2. When applied to the
sounds of the office
magnet, to render
those sounds intelligible.

13. The art of recording dots and "lnes at a distance for
telegraphing.
(The counsel then examined the question.of infringement of
each patent, separately, and concluded -with the following:)

The Appellants. infrine the Patents of 1840 and 1846, jointly
considerel
It is proper to consider the claims of the patents together,
and in connection with the specifications as well as separately,
in order to secure the real invention to the patentee.
The joint effect of the several claims of the first patent, apart
from the specific things claimed in each, makes it a patent also
for Morse's new art, process, and system of telegraphing, by
recording the variable duration of the galvanic current, in dots
and lines.
The second patent is for an improvemeni; in the means by
which that art was carried into effect.
The two together constitute the art, process, system, and

DECEMBER TERA 1853.

105

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.
means of telegraphing as improved, or, in other words, the
Telegraph.'
This whole system or telegraph so jointly considered, as used
by the appellants, in all its main features, is copied from that
of the appellees. That it is so, will appear from the following
table, showing the several parts of the apparatus used by each,
and their several relations and functions.
The appellants and appellees agree in employing an apparatus for telegraphing, consisting of the following parts, sustaining
to each other the several following relations, and performing
the several following functions, respectivbly :1. A main circuit,

which'con-I a long conductor ex-t he fun. to transmit the galvanic
sistsof I tending through tion of
current through its
several stations,
which is whole length, whenever it is closed.

2. A main battery
series,

a number of cups arranged along the
main conductor,

to supply the main conductor with a current
sufficient to work the
electro-magnets in its
course.

S. Operating keys, each of a small metallic lever,

to break and close the
main circuit.

4. Aseries of receiving magnets,

an electro-magnet,
with lever, and re
acting spring,

to close the office circuit
when a currentpasses
through main circuit.

5. Adjusting screws,

movable screws to
regulate force of reacting spring and
play of lever,

to render receiving
magnet sensitive to
varying force of main
currents.

6. Office circuits,

circuit of conductors
limited to each offich,

to transmit the power
to mark the paper.

7. Office battery
sendes,

a certain number of
Grove cups at each
station,

to generate and supply
the office circuit with
a current of greater
force than 'the main
circuit current.

S. A pen pOint, pen
lever, and grooved

a fine pointed piece
of iron, lever and
grooved roller,

to indent dots and lines
upon paper.

9. legisters,

a series ofclock-work,
moved by a weight
regulated by a fly,

to inove the paper uniformly u n d e r the
point of the pen.

10. Office magnets,

Ian electro-magnet,

lever,

which consists of
it

'C

1. To develop the
power by which the
pen marks in t he
groove of a roller.
. To produce audible
distinguishable sounds.

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.
22. A certain pro which con- in establishing, con- the
cess,

sists

tinuing and interrupting a galvanic
current through
main circuit at de-

func- to record dots and lines

tion of
which is

terminate intervals,

22. A system of
slgns

of dots and lines to
represent the letters
of the alphabet and
numerals.

"

at one or many distant stations, at the
will of a distant
operator.
1. When applied to the
record to render such
record intelligible.
2. When applied to the
sounds of the office
magnet, to render
those sounds intelligible.

Mr. Chief Justice TANEY delivered the opinion of the
court.
In proceeding to pronounce judgment in this case, the court
is sensible, not only of its importance, but of the difficulties
in some of the questions which it presents for decision. The
case was argued at the last term, and con dinued over by the court
for the purpose of giving it a more deliberate examination. And
since the continuance, we have received from the counsel on
both sides printed arguments, in which all of the questions raised
on the trial have been fully and elaborately discussed.
The appellants take three grounds of defence. In the first
place they deny that Professor Morse, was the first and original
inventor of the Electro-Magnetic Telegraphs described in his two
reissued patents of 1848. Secondly, they insist that if he was
the original inventor, the patents under which he claims have
not been issued conformably to the acts of Congress, and do
not confer on him the right to the exclusive use. And thirdly,
if these two propositions are decided against them, they insist
that the Telegraph of O'Reilly is substantially different from that
of Professor Morse, and the use of it, therefore, no infringement
of his rights:
In determining these questions we shall, in the first instance,
confine our attention to the patent which Professor Morse ob.
tained in 1840, and which was reissued in 1848. The main dispute between the parties is upon the validity of this patent;
and the decision upon it will dispose of the chief points in controversy in the other.
In relation to the"first point, (the originality of the invention,)
many witnesses have been examined on :oth sides.
It is obvious that, for some years before Professor Morse made
his invention, scientific men in different parts of Europe were
earnestly engaged in the same pursuit. Electro-magnetism itself was a recent discovery, and opened to them-a new and unexplored field for their labors, and'minds of a high order were
engaged in developing its power and tLe purposes to which it
might be applied.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

Professor Henry, of the Smithsonian Institute, states in his
testimony that, prior to the winter of 1819 -20, an electro-magnetic telegraph -that is to say, a telegraph operating by the
combined influence of electricity and magnetism-was not
possible; that the scientific principles on vhich it is founded
were until then unknown; and that the first fact of electro.
magnetism was discovered by Oersted, of Copenhagen, in that
winter, and was widely published, and the account everywhere
received with interest.
He also gives an account of the various discoveries, subsequently made from time to time, by different persons in different
places, developing its properties and powers, and among them
his own. He commenced his researches in 1828, and pursued
them with ardor and success, from -that time until the telegraph
of Professor Morse was established and in actual operation.
And it is due to him to say that no one has contributed more
to enlarge the knowledge of electro-magnetism, and to lay the
foundations of the great invention of which we are speaking,
than the professor himself.
It is unnecessary, however, to give in detail the discoveries
enumerated by him - either his own or those of others. But
it appears from his testimony that very soon after the discovery
made by Oerstedit was believed by men of science that this
newly-discovered power might be used to communicate intelligence to distant places. And before the year 1823, Ampere of
Paris, one of the most successful cultivators of physical science,
proposed to the French Academy a plan-for that purpose. But
his project vas never reduced to practice. And the discovery
made by Barlow, of the Royal 1\ilitary Academy of WVoolwich.
Egland, in 1825, that the galvanic current greatly diminished
in power as the distance increased, put at rest, for a time, all attempts to construct an electro-magnetic telegraph. Subsequent
discoveries, however, revived the hope; and in the year 1832, when
Professor Morse appears to have devoted himself to the subject,
the conviction was general among men of science everywhere
tiat the object could, and sooner or later would be, accomplished.
The great difficulty in their way was the fact that the galvanic current, however strong in the beginning, became gradually weaker as it advanced on the wire; and was not strong
enough to produce a mechanical effect, after a certain distance
had been traversed. But, encouraged by the discoveries which
were made from time to time, and strong in the belief-that an
electro-magnetic telegraph was practicable, many eminent and
scientific men in Europe, as well as in this country, became
deeply engaged in endeavoring to surmount what appeared to
be the chief obstacle to its success. ,And in this state of

108

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

things it ought not to be a matter of surprise that four different
magnetic telegraphs,-purporting. to have overcome the difficulty,
should be invented and made public so nearly at the same time
that each has claimed a priority; and that a close and careful
scrutiny of the facts in each case is necessary to decide between
them. The invention. were so nearly simultaneous, that neither
inventor can be justl' accused of having derived any aid from
the discoveries of the other.
One of these inventors, Doctor Steinhiel, of Munich, in Germany, communicated his discovery to the Academy of Science
in Paris, on the 19th of July, 1838, and states, in his communication, that it had been in operation more than a year.
Another of the European inventors, Professor Wheatstone,
of London, in the month of April, 1837, explained to Professors
Henry and Bache, who were then in London, his plan of an
electro-magnetic telegraph, and exhibited to them his method
of bringing into action a second galvanic circuit, in order to
provide a remedy for the diminution of force in a long circuit;
but it appears, by the testimony of Professor Gale, that the patent to Wheatstone and Cooke was not sealed until January 21,
1840, and their specification was not filed until the 21st of July
in the same year; and there is no evidence that any description
of it was published before 1839.
The remaining European patent is thc.t of Edward Davy.
His patent, it appears, was sealed on the 4th of July, 1838, but
his specification was not filed until January 4, 1839; and when
these two English -patents are brought into competition with
that of Morse, 1hey must take date from the time of filing their
respective specifications. For it must be borne in mind that,
as the law then stdod in England, the inventor was allowed six
months to file the description of his invention after his patent
was sealed; while, in this country, the filing of the specification
is simultaneous with the application for patents.
The defendants contend that all, or at least some one of these
European telegaphs, were invented and made public before the
discovery claimed by Morse; and that the process and method
by which he conveys intelligence to a distance is substantially
the same, with the exception only of its capacity for impressing upon paper the marks or signs described in the alphabet he
invented. "
WaivinZ, for the present, any remarks upon the identity or
similitude of these inventions, the cour is of opinion that the
first branch of the objection cannot be maintained, and that
Morse was the first and original inventor of the telegraph described in his specification, ana preceded the three European
inventipns relied on by the defendants.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

109

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

The evidence is full and clear that, when he was returning
from a visit to Europe, in 1832, he was deeply engaged upon
this subject during the voyage; and that the process and means
were so far developed and arranged in his own mind, that he
was confident of ultimate success. It is in proof that he pursued these investigations with unremitting ardor and industry,
interrupted occasionally by pecuniary embarrassments; .andwe
think that it is established, by the testimony of Professor Gale
and others that, early in the spring of 1837, Morse had invented
his plan for combining two or more electric or galvanic circuits,
With independent batteries for the purpose of overcoming the
diminished force of electro-magnetism in long circuits, although
it was not disclosed -to, the witness until afterwards; and that
there is reasonable ground for believing that he had so far completed his invention, that the whole process, combination, powers, and machinery, were arranged in his mind, and that the delay in bringing it out arose from his want of means. For it
required the highest order of mechanical skill to execute and
adjust the nice and delicate work necessary to put the' telegraph
into operation, and the slightest error or defect would have been
fatal to its success. He had not the means at that time to procure the services of workmen of that chardcter; and withotit
their aid no model could be prepared which would do justice to
his invention. And it moreover required a large sum of money
to procure proper materials for the work. He, however, filed
his caveat on the 6th of October, 1837, and, on the 7th of April,
1838, applied for his patent, accompanying his application with
a specification of his invention, and describing the process and
means used to produce the effect. It is true that O'Reilly, in
his answer, alleges that the plan by -vhich he now combines
tvo or more galvanic or electric currents, with independent
batteries, was not contained in that specification, but discovered °
and interpolated afterwards,; but there is no evidence whatever to support this charge. And we are satisfied, from the
festimony, that the plan, as it now appears in his specification,
had then been invented, and was actually intended to be described.
With this evidence before us, we think it is evident that the
invention of Morse was prior to that of Steifiheil, Wheatstone,
or Davy. The discovery of Steinheil, taking the time which
be hiniself gave to the French Academy of Science, cannot be
understood as carrying it back beyond the months of May or
June, 1837. And that of Wheatstone, as exhibited to Professors Henry and Bache, goes back only to April in that year.
And there is nothing in the evidence to carry-back the invention
of Davy beyond the .4th of January, 1839, when his specifica10
VOL. XV.

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

tion was filed, except a publication said to have been made in
the London Mechanics' Magazine, January 20, 1838; and the
invention of Morse is justly entitled to take date from early in
the spring of 1837. And in the description of Davy's invention, as given in the publication of January 20, 1S38, there is
nothing specified which Morse could have borrowed; and we
have no evidence to show that his invention ever was or could
be carried into successful operation.
In relation to Wheatstone, there would seem to be some discrepancy in the testimony. According to Professor Gale's testimony, as before mentioned, the specification of Wheatstone
and Cook was not filed until July 21, 1840, and his information is derived from the London Journal of Arts and Sciences.
But it appears, by the testimony of EdwErd F. Barnes, that this
telegraph was in actual operation in 1839. And, in the case of
the Electric Telegraph Company v. Brett & Little, 10 Common
Pleas Reports, by Scott, his specification is said to have been
filed December 12, 1837. But if the last-mentioned date is taken
as the true one, it would not make his inention prior to that of
Morse. And even if it would, yet this case must be decided by
the testimony in at e record, and we can not go out of it, and
take into consideration a fact stated in a book of reports.
Moreover, we have noticed this case merely because it has been
pressed into the argument. The appellants do not mention it
in their answer, nor put their defence orL it. And if the evidence of its priority was conclusive, it would not avail them
in this suit. For they cannot be allowed to surprise the patentee by evidence of a prior invention, of which they gave
him no notice.
But if the priority of Morse's invention was more doubtful,
and it was conceded that in fact some one of the European inventors had preceded him a few months or a few weeks, it would
,not invalidate his patent. The act of Congress provides that,
When the patentee believes himself to be the first inventor, a
previous discovery in a foreign country shall not render his
patent void, unless such discovery, or some substantial part
of it, had been before patented, or described in a printed publication.
No- v, we suppose no one will doubt that Morse believed himself to be the original inventor, when he applied for his patent
in April, 1838. Steinheil's discovery does not appear to have
been ever patented, nor to have been described in any printed publication until July of that year. And neither of the
English inventions are shown by the testimony to have been
patented until after Morse's application for a patent, nor to
have been so described in any previous publication as to em-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

111

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

brace any substantial part of his invention. And if his application for a patent was made under such circumstances, the
patent is good, even if in point of fact he was not the first inventor.
In this view of the subject, it is unnecessary to compare the
telegraph of Morse with these European inventions, to ascertain
whether they are substantially the same or not. If they were
the same in every particular, it would not impair his rights.
But it is impossible to examine them, and look at the process
and the machinery and results of each, so far as the facts are
before us, without perceiving at once the substantial and essential difference between them and the decided superiority of the
one invented by Professor Morse.
Neither can the inquiries he made, or the information or advice he received, from men of science in the course of his researches, impair his right to the character of an inventor. No
invention can possibly be made, consisting of a combination of
different elements of power, without a thorough knowledge of
the properties of each of them, and the mode in which they
operate on each other. And it can make no difference, in this
respect, whether he derives his information from books, or from
conversation with men skilled in the science. If it were otherwise, no patent, in which a combination of diflrent elements
is used, could ever be obtained. For no man ever made such
an invention without having first obtained this information,
unless it was discovered by some fortunate accident. And it is
evident that such an invention as the Electro-Magnetic Teles
graph could never have been brought into action without it.
For a very high degree of scientific knowledge and the nicest
skill in the mechanic arts are combined in it, and were both
necessary to bring it into successful operation. And the fact
that Morse sought and obtained the necessary information aid
counsel from the best sources, and acted upon it, neither impairs his rights as an inventor, nor detracts from his merits.
Regarding Professor Morse as the fist and original inventor
of the Telegraph, we come to the objections which have been
made to the validity of his patent.
We do not think it necessary to dwell upon the objections
taken to the proceedings upon which the first patent was issued,
or to the additional specifications of the reissued patent of
1848. In relation to the first, if there was any alteration at
the suggestion of the commissioner, it appears to have been a
matter of form, rather than of substance; and, as regards the
second, there is nothing in the proof or on the face of the reissued patent to show that the invention therein described is not
the same with the one intended to be secured by the original

SUPREME COUET.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse at al.

patent. It was reissued by the proper lawful authority; and it
was the duty of the commissioner of patents to see that it did
not cover more than the original inventi.on. It must be presumed, therefore, that it does not, until the contrary appears.
Variations from the description given in the former specification do not necessarily imply that it is for a different discovery.
The right to surrender the old patent, and receive another in its
place, was given for the purpose of enabling the patentee to
giVe a more 'perfect description of his invention, when any
mistake or oversight was committed in hi:3 first. It necessarily,
therefore, varies from it. And we see nothing in the reissued
patent that may not, without proof to the contrary, be regarded
as a mpre careful description than the former one, explaining
more fully the nice and delicate manner in which the different
elements of power are arranged and combined together and act
upon one another, in order to produce the effect described in
the specification. Nor is it void because it does not bear the
same date with his French patent. It i.s not necessary to inquire whether the application of Professor Morse to the Patent
Office, in 1838, before he went to France, does or does not exempt his patent from the operation of the act of Congress upon
this subject. For, if it should be decided that it does not exempt it, the only effect of that decision would be to limit themonopoly to fourteen years from the date of the foreign patent.
And, in either case, the patent was in full force at the time the
injunction was granted by the Circuit Court, and when the present appeal stood regularly for hearing in 1;his court.
And this brings us to the exceptions taken to the specification and claims of.the patentee in the reisued patent of 1848.
"re perceive no well-founded objectio.a to the description
which is given of the whole invention and its separate parts, nor
to his right to a patent for the first seven inventions set forth in
the specification of his claims. The difficulty arises on the eighth.
It is in the following words:
"Eighth. I do not propose to limit raygelf to the specific
machinery or parts of machinery described in the foregoing specification and claims; the essence of my invention being the
use of the motive power of the electric or gadvanic current, which
I call electro-magnetism, however developed for marking or
printing intelligible chara.cters, signs, or let;ers, at any distances,
being a new application of that power o:" which I claim to be
the first inventor or discoverer."
It is impossible to misunderstand the extent of this claim.
He claims the exclusive right to every improvement where the
motive power is the electric or galvanic carrent, and the result
is the marking or printing intelligible characters, signs, or letters
'at a.distance.

DECEMBER TERM, 1"853.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

If this claim can be maintained, it matters not by what process or machinery the result is accomplished. For aught that
we now know some future inventor, in the onward march of
science, may discover a mode of writing or printing at a distance
by means of the electric or galvanic current, without using any
part of the process or combination set forth in the plaintiff's specification.. His invention may be less complicated -less liable
to get out of order - less expensive in construction, and in its
operation. But yet if it is covered by this patent the inventor
could ilot use it, nor the public have the benefit of it without
the permission of this patentee.
Nor is this all, while he shuts the door against inventions of
other persons, the patentee would be able to avail himself of
new discoveries in the properties and powers of electro-magnetism which scientific men might bring to light. For he says
he does not confine his claim to the machinery or parts of machinery, which he specifies; but claims for himself a monopoly
in its use, however developed, for the purpose of printing at a
distance. New discoveries in physical science may enable him
to combine it with new agents and new elements, and by that
means attain the object in a manner superior to the present process and altogether different from it. And if he can securethe
exclusive use by his present patent he may vary it with every new
discovery and development of the science, and need place no description of the new manner, process, or machinery, upon the records of the patent office. And when his patent expires, the public
must apply to him to learn what it is.. In fine he claims an exclusive right to use a manner and process which he has not described and indeed had not invented, and therefore could not
describe when he obtained his patent. The court is of opinion
that the claim is too broad, and not warranted by law.
No one, we suppose will maintain that Fulton could have
taken out a patent for his invention of propelling vessels by
steam, describing the process and machinery he used, and claimed under it the exclusive right to use the motive power of
steam, however developed, for the purpose of propelling vessels.
It can hardly be supposed that under such a patent he could
have prevented the use of the improved machinery which science
has since introduced; although the motive power is steam, and
the result is the propulsion of vessels. Neither could the man
who first discovered that steam might, by a proper arrangement
of machinery, be used as a motive power to grind corn or spin
cotton, claim the right to the exclusive use of steam as a motive
power for the purpose of producing such effects.
Again, the use of steam as a motive power in printing-presses
is comparatively a modern discovery. Was the first inventor
10*

SUPRE31E COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Mforse et al.

of a machine or process of this kind entitled to a patent, giving
him the exclusive right to use steam as a motive power, however developed, for the purpose of marking o:c printing intelligible
characters ? Could he have prevented the use of any other
press subsequently invented where steam was used? Yet so
far as patentable rights are concerned both improvements must
stand on the same principles. Both use a known motive power
to print intelligible marks or letters; and it can make no difference in their legal rights under the patent laws, whether the
printing is done near at hand or at a distance. Both depend
for success not merely upon the motive power, but upon the
machinery with which it is combined. And it has never, we believe, been supposed by any one, that the first inventor of a
steam printing-press, was entitled to the exclusive use of steam,
as a motive power, however developed, for marking or printing
intelligible characters.
Indeed, the acts of the patentee himself are inconsistent with
the claim made in his behalf. For in 1846 lie took out a patent
for his new improvement of local circuits, by means of which
intelligence could be printed at intermediate places along the
main line of the telegraph; and he obtained a reissued patent
for this invention in 1848. Yet in this new invention the electric or galvanic current was the motive power, and writing at a
distance the effect. The power was undoubtedly developed, by
new machinery and new combinations. But if his eighth claim
could be sustained, this improvement would be embraced by
his first patent. And if it was so embraced, his patent for the
local circuits would be illegal and void. For he could not take
out a subsequent patent for a portion of his first invention, and
thereby extend his monopoly beyond the pe:riod limited by law.
Many cases have been referred to in the argument, which
have been decided upon this subject, in the English and American courts. -We shall spcak of those only which seem to be
considered as leading ones. And those most relied on, and
pressed upon the court, in behalf of the pa: entee, are the cases
which arose in England upon Neilson's patent for the introduction of heated air between the blowing apparatus and the furnace in the manufacture of iron.
The leading case upon this patent, is that of Neilson and
others v. Harford and others in the English Court of Exchequer.
It was elaborately argued and appears to. :iave been carefully
considered by the court. The case was this :
Neilson, in his specification, described his invention as one for
the improved application of air to produce heat in fires, forges,
and furnaces, where a blo'wing apparatus is required. And it
was to be applied as follows: The blast or current of air pro-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

115

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

duced by the blowing apparatus was to be passed from it into
an air-vessel or receptacle made sufficiently strong to endure the
blast; and through or from that vessel or receptacle by means
of a tube, pipe, or aperture into the fire, the receptacle be kept
artificially heated to a considerable temperature by heat externally applied. He then described in rather general terms the
manner in.which the receptacle might be constructed and heated, and the air conducted through it to the fire: stating that the
form of the receptacle was not material, nor the manner of applying heat to it. In the action above-mentioned for the infringement of this patent, the defendant among other defences insisted -that the machinery for heating the air and throwing it hot
into the furnace was not sufficiently described in the specification, and the patent void on that account - and also, that a
patent for throwing hot air into the furnace, instead of cold, and
thereby increasing the intensity of the heat, was a patent for a
principle, and that a principle was not patentable.
Upon the first of these defences, the jury found that a man of
ordinary skill and knowledge of the subject, looking at the specification alone, could construct such an apparatus as would be
productive of a beneficial result-, sufficient to make it worth while
to adapt it to the machinery in all cases of forges, cupolas, and
furnaces, where the blast is used.
And upon the second ground of defence, Baron Parke, who
delivered the opinion of the court, said:
" It is very difficult to distinguish it from the specification of
a patent for a principle, and this at first created in the minds of
the court much difficulty; but after full consideration we think
tfiat the plaintiff does not merely claim a principle, but a machine, embodying a principle, and a very valuable one. We
think the case must be considered as if the principle being well
known, the plaintiff had first invented a mode of applying it by
a mechanical apparatus to furnaces, and his invention then consists in this: by interposing a receptacle for heated air between
the blowing apparatus and the furnace. In this receptacle he
directs the air to be heated by the application of heat externally
to the receptacle, and thus he accomplishes the object of applying the blast, which was before cold air, in a heated state to the
furnace."
We see nothing in this opinion differing in any degree
from the familiar principles of law applicable to patent cases.
Neilson claimed no particular mode of constructing the receptacle, or of heating it. He pointed out the manner in which
it might be done; but admitted that it might also be done in a
variety of ways; and at a higher or lower temperature; and
that all of them would produce the effect in a greater or less

116

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse el; al.

degree, provided the air was heated by passing through a heated
receptacle. And hence it seems that the court at first doubted,
whether it was a patent for any thing more than the discovery
that hot air would promote the ignition of fuel better than cold.
And if this had been the construction, the court, it appears,
would have held his patent to be void; because the discovery
of a principle in natural philosophy or physical science, is not
patentable.
But after much consideration, it was finally decided that this
principle must be regarded as well known, and *thatthe plaintiff
had invented a mechanical mode of applying it to furnaces;
and that his invention consisted in interposing a heated receptacle, between the blower and the furnace, and by this means
heating the air after it left the blower, and before it was thrown
into the fire. Whoever, therefore, used this method of throwing
hot air into the furnace, used the process he had invented, and
thereby infringed his patent, although the form of the receptacle
or the mechanical arrangements for heating it, might be different
frorm those described by the patentee. Foz whatever form was
adopted for the receptacle, or whatever mechanical arrangements
were made for heating it, the effect would be produced in a
greater or less degree, if the heated receptacle was placed
bet-ween, the blower and the furnace, and the current of air
passed through it.
Undoubtedly, the'principle that hot a:r will promote the
ignition of fuel better than cold, was embodied in this machine.
But the patent was not supported becauss this principle was
embodied in it. He would have been equally entitled to a
patent, if he- had invented an improvement in the mechanical
arrangements of the blowing apparatus, or in the fArnace, while
a cold current of air was still used. But his patent was supported, because he had invented a mechanical apparatus, by
which a current of hot air, instead of cold, could be thrown in.
And this new method was protected by his patent. The interposition of a heated receptacle, in any form, was the novelty he
invented.
We do not perceive how the claim in the case before us, can
derive any countenance from this decision'. If the Court of
Exchequer had said'that Neilson's patent was for the discovery,
that hot air would promote ignition better than cold, and that
he had an exclusive right to use it for that purpose, there might,
perhaps, have been some reason to rely upon it. But the court
emphatically denied his right to such a patent. And his claim,
as the patent was construed and supported by the court, is altogether unlikd that of the patentee before us,
For Neilson discovered, that by interposirg a.heated recepta-

DECEMBER TERM1, 1853.

117

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

cle between the blower and the furnace, and conducting the
current of air through it, the heat in the furnace was increased.
And this effect was always produced, whatever might be the
form of the receptacle, or the mechanical contrivances for heating it, or for passing the current of air through it, and into the
furnace.

But Professor Morse has not discovered, that the electric or
galvanic current will always print at a distance, ro matter what
may be the form of the machinery or mechanical contrivances
through which it passes. You may use electro-magnetism as a
motive pow-r, and yet not produce the described effect, that is,
print at a distance intelligible marks or signs. To produce that
efiect, it must be combined with, and passed through, and
operate upon, certain complicated and delicate machinery, adjusted and arranged upon philosophical principles, and prepared
by the highest mechanical skill. And it is the high praise of
Professor Morse, that he has been able, by a new combination
of known powers, of which electro-magnetishm is one, to discover a method by which intelligible marks or signs may be
printed at a distance. And for the method or process thus
discovered, he is entitled to a patent. But he has not discovered
that the electro-magnetic current, used as motive power, in any
other method, and with any other combination, will do as well.
*We have commented on the case in the Court of Exchequer
more fully, because it has attracted much attention in the courts
of this country, as well as in the English courts, and has been
diflarently understood. And perhaps a mistaken construction
of that decision has led to the broad claim in the patent now
under consideration.
We do not deem it necessary to remark upon the other
decisions, in relation to Nielson's patent, nor upon the other
cases referred to, which stand upon similar principles. The
observations ve have made on the case in the Court of Exchequer, will equally apply to all of them.
We proceed to the American decisions. And the principles
herein stated, were fully recognized by this court in the case of
Leroy et al. v. Tatham and others, decided at the last term, 14
Howard, 156.
It appeared that, in that case, the patentee had discovered that
lead, recently set, would, under heat and pressure in a close
vessel, reunite perfectly, after a separation of its parts, so as to
make wrought, instead of cast pipe. And the court held that
he was not entitled to a patent for this newly-discovered principle or quality in lead; and that such a discovery was not
patentable. But that he was entitled to a patent for the new
process or method in the art of making lead pipe, which this

SUPREME COURoT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

discovery enabled him to invent and employ; and was bound
to describe such process or method, fully, in his specification.
Many cases have also been referred to, which were decided in
the circuit courts. It will be found, we think, upon careful
examination, that all of them, previous to the decision on
Nielson's patent, maintain the principles on which this decision
is made. Since that case was reported, it is *admitted, that
decisions have been made, which would seem to extend patentable rights beyond the limits here marked out. As we have
already said we see nothing in that opinion, which would sane* tion the introduction of any new principle in the law of patents.
But if it were otherwise, it would not justify this court in
departing from what we consider as established principles in
the American courts. And to show what was heretofore the
doctrine upon this subject, we refer to the annexed cases. We
do not stop to comment on them, because such an examination
would extend this opinion beyond all reasonable bounds. Wyeth
v. Stone, 1 Story, R. 270, 285; Blanchard v. Sprague, 3 Sumn.
540. The first mentioned case is directly in point.
Indeed, independently of judicial authodty, we do not think
that the language used in the act of Congress, can justly be
expounded otherwise.
The 5th section of the act of 1836, declares that a .patent
shall convey to the inventor for a term not exceeding fourteen
years, the exclusive right of making, using, and vending to
others to be used, his invention or discovery; referring to the
specification for the particulars thereof.
The 6th section directs who shall be entitled to a patent, and
the terms and conditions on which it may be obtained. It provides that any person shall be entitled to a patent who has discovered or invented a new and useful art, raahine, manufacture,
or composition of matter; or a new and useful improvement on
any previous discovery in either of them. But before he receives
a patent, he shall deriver a written description of his invention
or discovery, "akid of the manner and process of making, constructing, using, and compounding the same," in such exact
terms as to enable any person skilled in the art or science to
which it appertains, or with which it is most nearly connected,
to make, construct, compound, and use the same.
This court has decided, that the specification required by this
law is a part of the patent; and that the patent issues for the
invention described in the specification.
Now whether the Telegraph is regarded as an art or machine,
tne manner and process of making or using it must be set forth
in exact terms. The act of .Congress rakes no difference in
this respect between an art an.d a machine. An improvecent

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

119

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

in the art of making bar iron or spinning cotton must be so described; and so must the art of printing by the motive power
of steam. And in. all of these cases it has always been held,
that the patent embraces nothing more than'the improvement
described and claimed as new, and that any one who afterwards
discovered a method of accomplishing the same object, substantially and essentially differing from the one described, had a
right to use it. Can there be any good reason why the art of
printing at a distance, by means of the motive power of the
electric or galvanic current, should stand on different principles?
Is there any reason why the inventor's patent should cover
broader ground? It would be difficult to discover any thing in
the act of Congress which would justify this distinction. The
specification of this patentee describes his invention or discovery,
and the manner and process of constructing and using it; and
his patent, like inventions in the other arts above mentioned,
covers nothing more.
The provisions of the acts of Congress in relation to patents
may be summed up in a few words.
Whoever discovers that a certain useful result will be produced, in any art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, by the use of certain means, is entitled to a patent for it;
provided he specifies the means he uses in a manner so full and
exact, that any one skilled in the science to which it appertains,
can, by using the means he specifies, without any addition to, or
subtraction from them, produce precisely the result he d6scribes.
And if this cannot be done by the means he describes, the patent is void. And if it can be done, then the patent confers on
him the exclusive right to use the means he specifies to produce
the result or effect he describes, and nothing more. And it makes
no difference, in this respect, whether the effect is produced bychemical agency or combination; or by the application of discoveries or principles in natural philosophy known or unknown
before his invention; or by machinery acting altogether upon
mechanical principles. In either case he must describe the
manner and process as above mentioned, and the end it accomplishes. And any one may lawfully accomplish the same end
without infringing the patent, if he uses means substantially
different from those described.
Indeed, if the eighth claim of the patentee can be maintained,
there was no necessity for any specification, further than to say
that he haold discovered that, by using the motive power of clectro-magnetism, he could print intelligible characters at any distance. We presume it will be admitted on all hands, that no
patent could have issued on such a specification. Yet this
claim can derive no aid from the specification filed. It is out-

120

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

side of it, and the patentee claims beyond it. And if it stands,
it must stand simply on the ground that the broad terms above.
mentioned were a sufficient description, and entitled him to a
patent'in terms equally broad. In our judgment the act of Congress cannot be so construed.
The patent then being illegal and void, so far as respects the
eighth claim, the question arises whether the whole patent is void,
unless this portion of it is disclaimed in a reasonable time, after
the patent issued.
It has been urged, on the part of the complainants, that there
is no necessity for a disclaimer in a case of this kind. That it
is required in those cases only in which the party commits an
error in fact, in claiming something which was known before,
and of which he was not the first discoverer; that in this case
he was the first to discover that the motive power of electromagnetism might be used to write at a diEstance; and that his
error, if any, was a mistake in law, in sup'posing his inv rntion,
as described in his specification, authorized this broad claim of
exclusive privilege; and that the claim therefore may be regarded as a nullity, and allowed to stand in the patent without a
disclaimer, and without affecting the validity of the patent.
This distinction can hardly be maintained. The act of Congress above recited, requires that the invention shall be so described, that a person skilled in the science to which it appertains,
or with which it is most nearly connected, shall be able to construct the improvement from the description given by the inventor.
Now, in this case, there is no description but one, of a process
by which signs or letters may be printed at a 'distance. And
yet hbe claims the exclusive right to any other mode and any
other process, although not described by him, by which the end
can be accomplished, if electro-magnetism is used as the motive
power. That is to say - he claims a patent, for an effect produced by the use of electro-magnetism distnct from the process
or machinery necessary to produce it. The woids of the acts
of Congress above quoted show that no patent can lawfully
issue upon such a claim. For he claims what he has not described in the manner required by law. A-ad a patent for such
a claim is as strongly forbidden by the act of Congress, as if
some other person had invented it before him.
Why, therefore, should he be required .nd permitted to disclaim in the one case and not in the other? The evil is the
same if he claims more than he has invented, although no other
person has invented it before him. le prevents others from attempting to improve upon the mainer and process which he
has a-ecribed in his spe ification-and may deter tho public

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

121

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

from using it, even if discovered. He can lawfully claim only
what he has invented and described, and if he claims more his
patent is void. And the judgment in this case must be against
the patentee, unless he is within the act of Congress which gives
the right to disclaim.
The law which requires and permits him to disclaim, is not
penal but remedial. It is intended for the protection of the patentee as well as the public, and ought not, therefore, to receive
a construction that would restrict its operation within narrower
limits than its words fairly import. It provides "that when any
patentee shall have in. his specification claimed to be the first
and original inventor or discoverer of any material or substantial part of the thing patented, of which he was not the first
and original inventor, and shall have no legal or just claim to
the same," - he must disclaim in order to protect so much of
the claim as is legally patented.
Whether, therefore, the patent is illegal in part because he
claims more than he has sufficiently described, or more than he
invented, he must in either case disclaim, in order to save the
portion to which he is entitled ; and he is allowed to do so when
the error was committed by mistake.
A different construction would be unjust to the public, as well
as to the patentee, and defeat the -manifest object of the law,
and produce the very evil against which it intended to guard.
It appears that no disclaimer has yet been entered at the patent
office. But the delay in entering it is not unreasonable. For
the objectionable claim was sanctioned by the head of the office;
it has been held to be valid by a circuit court, and differences
of opinion in relation to it are found to exist among the justices
of this court. Under such circumstances the patentee had a
right to insist upon it, and not disclaim it until the highest court
to which it could be carried had pronounced its judgment. The
omission to disclaim, therefore, does not render the patent altogether void ; and he is entitled to proceed in this suit, for an
infringement of that part of his invention which is legally
claimed and described. But as no disclaimer was entered in the
patent office before this suit was instituted, he cannot, under the
act of Congress, be allowed costs against the wrongdoer, al.
though the infringement should be proved. And we think it is
proved by the testimony. But as the question of infringement
embraces both of the reissued patents, it is proper, before we
proceed to that part of the case, to notice the objections made
to the second patent for the. local circuits, which was originally
obtained in 1846 and reissued in 1848.
It is certainly no objection to this patent, that the improvement is embraced by the eighth claim in the former one. We
VOL. XV.

11

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

have already said that this claim is void, and that the former
patent covers nothing but the first seven inventions specifically
mentioned.
Nor can its validity be impeached upon the ground that it is
an improvement upon a former invention, for which the patentee
had himself already obtained a patent. It is true that under the
act of 1836, s. 13, it was in the power of Professor Morse, if he
desired it, to annex this improvement to his former specification,
so as to make it from that time a part of the original patent.
But there is nothing in the act that forbids him to take out a
new patent for the imprivement, if he prefers it. Any other
inventor might do so: and there can be no reason in justice or
in policy, for refuing the like privilege to the original inventor.
And when there is no positive law to the contrary, he must
stand on the same footing with any other inventor of an improvement upon. a previous discovery. Nor is he bound in his new
patent to refer specially to his former one. All that the law requires of him is that he shall not claim as new, what is covered
by a former invention, whether made by himself or any other
person.
It is said, however, that this alleged impiovement is not new,
and is embraced in his former specification; and that if some
portion of it is new, it is not so described as to distinguish the
new from the old.
It is difficult, perhaps impossible, to discuss this part of the
case, so as to be understood by any one who has not a model
before him, or perfectly familiar with the machinery and operations of the Telegraph. We shall not, therefore, attempt to describe minutely the machinery or its mode of operation. So
far as this can be done intelligibly, without the aid of a model
to point to, it has been fully and well done in the opinion delivered by the learned judge who decided this case in the Circuit Court. All that we think is useful or necessary to say is,
that, after a careful examination of the patents, we think the
objection on this ground is not tenable. The force of the objection is mainly directed upon the receiving magnet, which it
is said is a part of the machinery of the first patent, and performs the same office. But the receiving magnet ii not of
itself claimed as a new invention. It is claimed as a part of
a new combination or arrangement to produce a new result.
And this combination does produce a new and useful result.
For, by this new combination, and the arrangement and position of the receiving magnet, the local and independent circuit
is opened by the electric or galvanic curren';, as it passes on the
main line, without interrupting it in its course; and the intelligence it conveys is recorded almost at the same moment at the

DECEMBER TERA 1853.

123

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

end of the line of the Telegraph, and at the different local
offices on its way. And it hardly needs a model or a minute
examination of the machinery to be satisfied that a telegraph
which prints the intelligence it conveys at different places, by
means of the current, as it passes along on the main line, rhust
necessarily require a different combination and arrangement of
powers from the one that prints only at the end. The elements
which compose it may all have been used in the former invention ; but it is evident that their arrangement and combination
must be different to produce this new effect. The new patent
for the local circuits was therefore properly granted; and we
perceive no well-founded objection to the specification or claim
contained in the reissued patent of 1848.
The two reissued patents of 1848, being both valid, with the
exception of the eighth claim in the first, the only remaining question is, whether they or either of them have been infringed by
the defendants.
The same difficulty arises in this part of the case which we
have already stated, in speaking of the specification and claims
in the patent for the local circuits. It is difficult to convey a
clear idea of the similitude or differences in the t\vo Telegraphs to any one not familiarly acquainted-with the machinery
of both. The court must content itself, therefore, with general
terms, referring to the patentg themselves for a miore special description of the matters in controversy.
It is a well-settled principle of law,,that the mere change in
the form of the machinery (unless a particular form is specified
as the means by which the effect described is produced) or an
alteration in some of its unessential parts; or in the use of
known equivalent powers, not varying essentially the machine,
or its mode of operation or organization, will not make the new
machine a new invention. It may be an improvement upon
the former; but that will not justify its use without the consent
of the first patentee.
The Columbian (O'Reilly's) Telegraph does not profess to
accomplish a new purpose, or produce a new result. It* object
and effect is to communicate intelligence at a distance, at the
end of the main line, and at the local circuits on its way. And
this is done by means of signs or letters impressed -on paper or
other material. The object and purpose of the Telegraph is the
same with that of Protessor Morse.
Does he use the same means? Substantially, we think he
does, both upon the main line and in the local circuits. He
uses upon the main line the combination of two or more gal.
vanic or electric circuits, with independent batteries for the purpose of obviating the diminished force of the galvanic current,

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse elt al.

and in a manner varying very little in forra from the invention
of Professor Morse. And, indeed, the same may be said of the
entire combination set forth in the patentee's third claim. For
O'Reilly's can hardly be said to differ substantially and essentially from it. He uses the combination which composes the
register with no material change in the arrangement, or in the
elements of which it consists; and with the aid of these means
he conveys ir.telligence by impressing marks 'or signs upon
paper- these marks or signs being capable of being read and
understood by means of an alphabet or signs adapted to the
purpose. And as regards the second patent of Professor Morse
for the local circuits, the mutator of the defendant does not
vary from it in any essential particular. All of the efficient
element- of the combination are retained, or their places supplied by well-known equivalents. Its organization is essentially
the same.
Neither is the substitution of marks and signs, differing from
those invented by Professor Morse, any dE fence to this action.
His patent is not.for the invention of a new alphabet; but for
a c6mbination of powers composed of tangible and intangible
elements, described in his specification, by means of which
marks or signs may be impressed upon paper at a distance,
which can there be read and understood. And if any marks or
signs or letters are impressed in that manner by means of a
process substantially the same with his invention, or with any
particular part of it covered by his patent, and those marks or
signs can be read, and thus communicate' intelligence, it is an
infringement of his patent. The variation in the character of
the marks would not protect it, if the marks could be read and
understood.
We deem it unnecessary to pursue further the comparison
between the machinery of the patents. The invasion of the
plaintiff's rights, already stated, authorized the injunction
granted by the Circuit Court, and so much of its decree must
be affirmed. But, for the reasons hereirbefore assigned, the
complainants are not entitled to costs, and that portion of the
decree must be reversed, and a decree passed by this court,
directing each party to pay his own costs, in this and in the
Circuit Court.
Mr. Justice WAYNE, Mr. Justice NELSON, and Mr. Justice GRIER, dissent from the judgment of the court on the
question of costs.
Mr. Justice GRIER.
I entirely concur with the majority of the court, that the ap-

DECE3MBER TERM, 1853.

125

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

pellee and complainant below, Samuel F. B. Morse, is the true
and first inventor of the Recording Telegraph, and the first who
has successfully applied the agent or element of nature, called
electro-magnetism, to printing and recording intelligible characters at a distance; and that his patent of 1840, finally reissued in 1848, and his patent for his improvements as reissued
in the same year, are good and valid; and that the appellants
have infringed the rights secured to the patentee by both his
patents. But, as I do not concur in the views of the majority
of the court, in regard to two great points of the case, I shall
proceed to express my own.
I. Does the complainant's first patent come within the proviso of the 6th section of the act of 1839? and should the term
of fourteen years granted by it commence from the date of his
patent here, or from the date of his French patent in 1838?
If the complainant's patent is within the provisions of this
section, I cannot see how we can escape-from declaring it void.
The proviso declares that, "in all cases, every such patent (issued under the provisions of that section) shall be limited to
the term of fourteen years from the date or publication of such
foreign letters-patent." It is true it does not say that the patent shall be void if not limited to such term on its face; but
it gives no power to the officer to issue a patent for a greater
term. If the patent does not show the true commencement of
the term granted by it, the patentee has it in his power to deceive the public, by claiming a term of fourteen years, while in
reality it may be not more than one.
But I am of opinion that the patent in question does not
come within this proviso.
The facts of the case, as connected with this point, are these:
On the 6th of October, 1837, Morse filed in the office of the
commissioner of patents, a caveat accompanied by a specification, setting forth his invention, and praying that it may be protected, till he could finish some experiments necessary to perfect its details. On the 9th of April, 1838, he filed a formal application for a patent, accompanied by a specification and drawings.
On the first of May, 1838, the commissioner informs him, that
his application has been granted. Morse answers on the 15th
of May, that he is just about to sail to Europe, and asks the
commissioner to delay the issue of his patent for the present,
fearing its effect upon his plans abroad.
On the 30th of October, 1838, he obtained his useless French
patent. On his return to this country in 1840, he requests his
patent to be perfected and issued. In this application, filed
on the 9th of April, 1838, there was an oversight in filling up
the day and month. This clerical omission was wholly imma11*

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

terial, but ex majori cautela a second affidavit was filed, and the
patent issued on the 20th of June, 1840, for the term of fourteen
years from its date.
The application of 1838 had a set of drawings annexed to
the specification. The second set of drawings, required by the
6th section of the act of 1837, being for the purpose of annexation to the patent, they were entirely unnecessary till the patent
issued, and are not required by law to accompany the application when first made, and the want of them cannot affect the
validity of the application.
In many instances, owing to various causes, the patent is not
issued till many months, and sometimes a year or more after the
application. The commissioner requires time to examine the
specification; he may suggest difficulties an.] amendments; and
disputes often arise, which delay the issuing of the patent. But
the application does not require to be renewed, and is never
considered abandoned in consequence of such delay. It still remains as of the date of its filing for every purpose beneficial to
the applicant. The law does not require that the specification and
its accompaniments should be in the precise form which they
afterwards assume in the patent. It requires only that the application be "in w iting," and that the applicant should "make
oath that he is the original inventor," &c. The other requirements of the act must precede the issuing of the patent, but
make no part of the application, and are not conditions precedent to its validity.
In the present case, we have, therefore, a regular application
in due form, accompanied by a specification and drawings, filed
on the 9th of April, 1838. It has not been withdrawn, discontinued, or abandoned. There is nothing in the act of Congress
which requires that the patent should be issued within any
given time after the application is filed, or which forbids the
postponement of it for a time, at the suggestion either of the
applicant or the officer. Nor is there any thing in the general
policy of the patent laws which forbids it. On the contrary, it
has always been the practice, when a foreign patent is desired,
to delay the issuing of the patent here, after application filed,
for'feiar of injuring such foreign application. It forms no part
of the policy of any of our patent acts to prevent our citizens
from obtaining patents abroad.
By the Patent Act of 1793, the applicant must swear "that
his invention, was not known or used before the application."
The filing of the application was the time fixed for determining
the applicant's right to a patent. If a patent had issued abroad,
or the invention had been in use or described in some public
work, before that time, it was a good defence to it. The time

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

of filing the application was, therefore, made by law the criterion of his right to claim as first inventor. A foreign patent
subsequent to the date of his application, could not be set up as
a defence against the domestic patentee. The American inventor
who had filed his application and specification at home, was
thus enabled to obtain his patent abroad, without endangering
his patent at home. This was a valuable privilege to American
citizens, and one of which he has never been deprived by subsequent legislation. And thus the law stood till the act of 4th
July, 1836.
Before this time the right to obtain a patent was confined to
American citizens, or those who had filed their intentions to become such. The policy of this act was to encourage foreign inventors to introduce their inventions to this country, but in doing so it evinces no intention of limiting our own citizens by
taking away from them rights which they had hitherto enjoyed.
Accordingly it gave an inventor, who had obtained a patent
abroad, and who was generally a foreigner, a right to have one
here, provided he made his application here within six months
after the date of his foreign patent. Neither the letter nor the
spirit of this act interferes with the right of an inventor who
has filed his application here, from obtaining a patent abroad,
or his right to a term of fourteen years, from the date of his
patent.
In 1838, therefore, when complainant filed his application, he
was entitled to such a patent. But in March, 1839, an act was
passed, by the 6th section of which it is alleged the complainant's rights have been affected. That section is as follows:
"That no person shall be debarred from receiving a patent
for any invention, &c., as provided in the act of 4th July, 1836,
to which this is additional, by reason of the same having been
patented in a foreign country, more than six months prior to his
application. Provided, that the same shall not have been introduced into public and common use in the United States prior
to the application for such patent. And provided, also, that -in
all cases, every such patent shall be limited to the term of fourteen years from the date of publication of such foreign letterspatent."
Now the act of 1836, as we have shown, had given a privilege
to foreign patentees to have a patent within six months after
date of such foreign patent. It had not affected, in any manner,
the right previously enjoyed by American citizens to take out a
foreign patent after filing their applications here. This section
gives additional rights to those who had first taken out patents
abroad, and holding out an additional encouragement to foreign
inventors to introduce their inventions here, subject to certain

128

SUPR EME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

conditions contained in the proviso. Nei;her the letter, spirit,
nor policy of this act, have any reference to, or bearing upon,
the case of persons who had just made their applications here.
To construe a proviso, as applicable to a class of cases not
within its enacting clause, would violate all settled rules of
construction. The office of a proviso, is either to except something from the enacting clause, or to exclude some possible
ground of misinterpretation, or to state a condition to which the
privilege granted by the section shall be subjected.
Here the proviso is inserted, to restrain the general words of
the section and impose a condition on tbose who accept the
privileges granted by the section. It enlarged the privileges of
foreign patentees, which had before been confined to six mofiths,
on two conditions. 1st. Provided the invention patented abroad
had not been introduced into public use here; and 2d, on condition that every such patent should be limited in its terms.
The general words, "in all cases," especially when restrained to
every fach patent, cannot extend the conditions of the proviso
beyond such cases as are the subject-matter of legislation in
the section. The policy and spirit of the act are to grant privileges to a certain class of persons which they did not enjoy
before; to encourage the introduction of foieign inventions and
discoveries, and not to deprive our-own citizens of a right heretofore enjoyed, or to affect an entirely different class of cases,
when 'the applications had been filed here before a patent
obtained abroad.
It is supposed, that certain evils might arise by allowing an
applicant for a patent here to delay its issue. till he can obtain
a foreign patent. To which, it is a sufficient answer to say,
that if such evil consequences should be found to exist, it is for
Congress to remedy them by legislation.
It is no part of the duty of this court, by a forced construction of existing statutes, to attempt the remedy of possible
evils by anticipation.
I am, therefore, of opinion that the complainant's patent, as
renewed, contained a valid grant of the full term of fourteen
years from its original date.
II. The other point, in which I cannot concur with the opinion
of the majority, arises in the construction of the eighth claim
of complainant's first patent, as finally anended. The first
claim, as explanatory of all that follow, should be read in
connection with the eighth. They are as follows:
"1st. Having thus fully described my inNention, I wish it to
be understood, that I do not claim the use of the galvanic current or currents of electricity, for the purpose of telegraphic
communications generally; but what I specially claim as my

DECEMXBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v.

Morse et al.

invention and improvement, is making use of the motive power
of magnetism, when developed by the action of such current
or currents substantially as set forth in the foregoing description
of the fist principal part of my invention, as means of operating
or giving motion to machinery which may be used to imprint signals upon paper or other suitable material, or to produce sounds
in aly desired manner for the purpose of telegraphic communication at any distances. The only ways in which the galvanic
current had been proposed to be used prior to my invention and
improvement, were by bubbles resulting from decomposition,
and the action or exercise of electrical power upon a magnetized
bar or needle; and the bubbles and the deflections of the needles
thus produced, were the subjects of inspection, and had no
power or were not applied to record the communication. I
therefore characterize my invention as the first recording or
printing telegraph by means of electro-magnetism.
"There are various known modes of producing motions by
electro-magnetism, but none of these had been applied prior to
my invention and improvement to actuate or give motion to
printing or recording machinery, which is the chief point of my
invention and improvement'
"8th. I do not propose to limit myself to the specific machinery
or parts of machinery described in the foregoing specification
and claims, the essence of my invention being the use of the
motive power of the electric or galvanic current, which I call
electro-magnetism, however developed, for marking or printing
intelligible characters, signs, or letters, at any distances, being a
new application of that power, of which I claim to be the first
inventor or discoverer."
The objection to this claim is, that it .is too broad, because
the inventor does not confine himself to specific machinery or
parts of machinery, as described in his patent, but claims that
the essence of his invention consists in the application of
electro-magnetism as a motive power, however developed, for
printing characters at a distance. This being a new application of that element or power, of which the patentee claims to
be the first inventor or discoverer.
In order to test the value of this objection, as applied to the
present case, and eseape any confusion of ideas too often arising from the use of ill-defitied terms and propositions, let us
examine, 1st. What may be patented; or what forms a proper
subject of protection, under the Constitution and acts of Congress, relative to this subject.
2d. What is the nature of the invention now under consideration? Is it a mere machine, and subject to the rules
which afict a combination of mechanical devices to effect a
particular purpose.

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. BMorse et al.

3d. Is the claim true, in fact ? And if true, how can it be
too broad, in any legal sense of the term, as heretofore used,
either in the acts of Congress, or in judicial decisions ?
4th. Assuming the hypothesis that it is too broad, how should
that affect the judgment for costs in this case?
1st. The Constitution of the United States declares that
" Congress shall have the power to promote the progress of
science and useful arts, by securing for limited times, to authors
and inventors, the exclusive right to their respective writings
and discoveries."
The act of Congress of 1836, confers this exclusive right for
a limited time, on "any person who has discovered or invented
any new and useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition
of matter, or any new and useful improvements on any art,
machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, not known or
used by others, before his or their discovery or invention thereof,
and not, at the time of his application for a patent, in public
use," &c.
A new and useful art or a new and useful improvement on
any known art is as much entitled to the protection of the law
as a machine or manufacture. The English patent acts are
confined to "manufactures" in terms; but the courts have construed them to cover and protect arts as well as machines; yet
without using the term art. Here we are rot required to make
any latitudinous construction of our stat.te for the sake of
equity or policy; and surely we have no right, even if we had
the disposition, to curtail or narrow its liberal policy by astute
or fanciful construction.
It is not easy to give a precise definition of what is meant by
the term "art," as used in the acts of Congress -some, if not
all, the traits which distinguish an art from the other legitimate
subjects of a patent, are stated with clearness and accuracy by
Mr. Curtis, in his Treatise on Patents. "The term art, applies,"
says he, "to all those cases where the app1cation of a principle
is the most important part of the inventiofi, and where the machinery, apparats, or other means, by which the principle is
applied, are incidental only and not of the Essence of his invention. It applies also to all those cases where the result, effect,
or manufactured article is old, but the invention consists in a
new process or method of producing such result, effect, or manufacture." Curt. on Pat. 80.
A machine, though it may be composed of many parts, instruments, or devices combined together, still conveys the idea of
unity. It may be said to be invented, but the term "discovery"
could not well be predicated of it. An art -may employ many
different machines, devices, processes, and manipulations, to

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

131

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

produce some useful result. In a previously known art a man
may discover some new process, or new application of a known
principle, element, or power of nature, to the advancement of
the art, and will be entitled to a patent for the same, as "an improvement in the art," or he may invent a machine to perform
a given function, and then he will be entitled to a patent only
for his machine.
That improvements in the arts, which consist in the new application of some known element, power, or physical law, and
not in any particular machine or combination of machinery,
have been frequently the subject of patents both in England
and in this country, the cases in our books most amply demonstrate. I have not time to examine them at length; but would
refer to James Watt's patent for a method of saving fuel in
steam-engines by condensing the steam in separate vessels, and
applying non-conducting substances to his steam-pipes ; Clegg's
patent for measuring gas in water; Juhr v. Pratt, Webster's Pat.
Cas. 103; and the celebrated case of Neilson's patent for the
application of hot blast, being an important improvement in the
art of smelting iron.
In England, where their statute does not protect an art in direct terms, they have made no clear distinction betweeni an art
or an improvement in an art, and a process, machine, or manufacture. They were hampered and confined by the narrowness
of the phraseology of their patent acts. In this country, the
statute is as broad as language can make it. And yet, if we
look at the titles of patents, as given at the patent office, and
the language of our courts, we might suppose that our statute
was confined entirely to machines. Notwithstanding, in Kneiss
v. The Bank, (4 Washington C. C. Rep. 19,) Mr. Justice Washington supported a patent which consisted in nothing else but
a new application of copperplates to both sides of a bank-bill
as a security against counterfeiting. The new application was
held to be an art, and, therefore, patentable. So the patent in
McClurg v. Kingsland (1 Howard, 204) was in fact for an improvement in the art of casting chilled rollers by conveying the
metal to the mould in a direction approaching to the tangent of
the cylinder; yet the patentee was protected in the principle of
his discovery, (which was but the application of a known law of
nature to a new purpose,) against all forms of machinery embodying the same principle.
The great art of printing, which has changed the face of human society. and civilization, consisted in nothing but a new
application of principles known to the world for thousands of
years. No one could say it consisted in the type or the press,
or in any other machine or device used in performing some par-

132

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

ticular function, more than in the hands which picked the types
or worked the press. Yet if the inventor of printing had, under
this narrow construction of our patent law, claimed his art as
something distinct from his machinery, tie doctrine now advanced, would have declared it unpatentable to its fall extent
as an art, and that the inventor could be protected in nothing but
his first rough types and ill-contrived press.
I do not intend to review the English cases which adopt the
principle for which I now contend, notwithstanding their narrow statute; but would refer to the opinion of my brother
Nelson, in 14 Howard, 177; and will add, that Mr. Justice
McLean, in delivering the opinion of the court in that case,
quotes with approbation the language of Lord Justice Clerke,
in the Neilson case, which is precisely appli sable to the question
before us. He says: "The specification does not claim any
thing as to form, nature, shape, materials, numbers, or mathematical character of the vessel or vessels in which the air is to
be heated, or as to the mode of heating such vessels." Yet this
patent was sustained as for a new application of a known element; or, to use correct language, as an improvement in the art
of smelting iron, without any regard to the machinery or parts
of machinery used in the application. Such I believe to be the
established doctrine of the English courts.
He who first discovers that an element or law of nature can
be made operative for the production of some valuable result,
some new art, or the improvement of some known art; who
has devised the machinery or process to make it operative, and
introduced it in a practical form to the knowledge of mankind,
is a discoverer and inventor of the highest class. The discovery of a new application of a known element or agent may
require more labor, expense, persevering indastry, and ingenuity
than the inventor of any machine. Sometimes, it is true, it
may be the result of a happy thought or conception, without the
labor of an experiment, as in the case of the improvement in the
art of casting chilled rollers, already alluded to. In many cases,
it is the result of numerous experiments; not the consequence of
any reasoning a priori, but wholly empirical; as the discovery
that a certain degree of heat, when applied to the usual processes for curing India rubber, produced a substance with new
and valuable qualities.
The mere discovery of a new element, or law, or principle of
nature, without any valuable application of it to the arts, is not
the subject of a patent. But he who takes this new element
or power, as yet useless, from the laboratory of the philosopher,
and makes it the servant of man; who appl..es it to the perfecting of a new and useful art, or to the improvement of one already

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

known, is the benefactor to whom the patent law tenders its
protection. The devices and machines used in the exercise of it
may or may not be new; yet, by the doctrine against which I
contend, he cannot patent them, because they were known and
used before. Or, if he can, it is only in their new application
and combination in perfecting the new art. In other words, he
may patent the new applicatiorr of the mechanical devices, but
not the new application of the operative element which is the
essential agent in the invention. He may patent his combination of the machinery, but not his art.
When a new and hitherto unknown product or result, beneficial to mankind, is effected by a new application of any element of nature, and by means of machines and devices, whether new or old, it cannot be denied that such invention or
discovery is entitled to the denomination of a "new and useful
art." The statute gives the, inventor of an art a monopoly in
the exercise of it as fully as it does to the inventor of a mere machine. And any person who exercises such ne\v art without the
license of the inventor is an infringer of his patent, and of the
franchise granted to him by the law as a reward for his labor
and ingenuity in perfecting it. A construction of the law which
protects such an inventor, in nothing but the new invented machines or parts of machinery used in the exercise of his art,
and refuses it to the exercise of the art itself, annuls the patent
law. If the law gives a franchise or monopoly to the inventor
of an art as fully as to the inventor of a machine, why shall its
protection not be coextensive with the invention in one case as
well as in the other? To look at an art as nothing but a combination of machinery, and give it protection only as such,
against the use of the same or similar devices or mechanical
equivalents, is to refuse it protection as an art. It ignores the
distinction between an art and a machine; it overlooks the clear
letter and spirit of the statute; and leads to inextricable difficulties. It is viewing a statue or a monument through a microscope.
The reason given for thus confining the franchise of the inventor of an art to his machines and parts of machinery, is, that
it would retard the progress of improvement, if those who can
devise better machines or devices, differing in mechanical principle from those of the first inventor of the art, or, in other
words, who can devise an improvement in it, should not be allowed to pirate it.
To say that a patentee, who claims the art of writing at a
distance by means of electro-magnetism, necessarily claims all
future improvements in the art, is to misconstrue it, or draws a
consequence from it not fairly to be inferred from its language.
An improvement in a known art is as much the subject of a
VOL. XV.

12

SUPREME

COURT.

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

patent as the art itself; so, also, is an improvement on a known
machine. Yet, if the original machine be patented, the patentee
of an improvement will not have a right to use the original. This
doctrine has not been found to retard the progress of invention
in the case of machines; and I can see no reason why a contrary one should be applied to an art.
The claim of the patentee is, that he may be protected in the
exercise of his art as against persons who may improve or
change some of the processes or machines recessary in its exercise. The court, by deciding that this claim is too broad, virtually decides that such an inventor of ar. improvement may
pirate the art he improves, because it is contrary to public
policy to restrain the progress of invention. Or, in other words,
it may be said that it is the policy of the courts to refuse that
protection to an art which it affords to a machine, which it
is the policy of the Constitution and the laws to grant.
2d. Let us now consider what is the nature of the invention
now under consideration.
It is not a composition of matter, or a manufacture, or a machine. It is the application of a known element or power of
nature, to a new and useful purpose by means of various processes, instruments and devices, and if patentable at all, it must
come within the category of "a new and useful art." It is as
much entitled to this denomination as the original art of printing itself. The name given to it in the patent is generally the
act of the c.ommissioner, and in this, as in many other cases, a
wrong one. The true nature of the invention must be sought
in the specification.
The word telegraph is derived from the Greek, and signifies
"to write afar off or at a distance." It has heretofore been applied to various contrivances or devices, to communicate intelligence by means of signals or semaphores, which speak to the eye
for a moment. Butin its primary and literal signification of writing, printing, orrecording at a distanoe, itnever was invented, perfected, or put into practical operation till it was done by Morse.
He preceded Steinheil, Cook, Wheatstone, and Davy in the successful application of this mysterious power or element of electro-magnetism to this purpose; and his invention has entirely
superseded their inefficient contrivances. It is not only "a new
and useful art," if that term means any thing, but a most wonderful and astonishing invention, requiring tenfold more ingenuity and patient experiment to perfect it, than the art of printing with types and press, as originally invented.
3d. Is it not true, as set forth in this eighth claim of the specification, that the patentee was the first inventor or discoverer of
the use or application of electro-magnetism to print and record

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

135

O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

intelligible characters or letters? It is the very ground on which
the court agree in confirming his patent. Now the patent law
requires an inventor, as a condition precedent to obtaining a
patent, to deliver a written description of his invention or discovery, and to particularly specify what he claims to be his own
invention or discovery. If he has truly stated the principle, nature and extent of his art or invention, how can the court say it
is too broad, and impugn the validity of his patent for doing
what the law requires as a condition for obtaining it? And if
it is only in case of a machine that the law requires the inventor to specify what he claims as his own invention and discovery, and to distinguish what is new from what is old, then
this eighth claim is superfluous and cannot affect the validity
of his patent, provided his art is new and useful, and the machines and devices claimed separately, are of his own invention.
If it be in the use of the words "however developed" that the
claim is to be adjudged too broad, then it follows that a person
using any other process for the purpose of de'leloping the agent
or element of electro-magnetism, than the common one now in
use, and described in the patent, may pirate the whole art patented.
But if it be adjudged that the claim is too broad, because the
ihventor claims the application of this element to his new art,
then his patent is to be invalidated for claiming his whole invention, and nothing more. If the result of this application be
a new and useful art, and if the essence of his invention consists
in compelling this hitherto useless element to record letters and
words, at any distance and in many places at the same moment, how can it be said that the claim is for a principle or an
abstraction? What is meant by a claim being to broad? The
patent law and judicial decisions may be searched in vain for
a provision or decision that a patent may be impugned for
claiming no more than the patentee invented or discovered.
It is only when he claims something before known and used,
something as new which is not new, either by mistake or intentionally, that his patent is affected.
The act of Congress requires the applicant for a patent to
swear that "he is the original and first inventor of the art, machine, &c." It requires the commissioner to make an examination of the alleged invention, "and if it shall appear that the
same has not been invented prior to the alleged invention, he
shall grant a patent, &c. But if it shall appear that the applicant is not the original and first inventor or discoverer thereof,
or that any part of that which is claimed as new, had before
been invented," then the applicant to have leave to withdraw
his application.

136

SUPREME COURT.
O'Reilly et al. v. Morse et al.

The 13th section treats of defective specifications and their
remedy where the applicant, through mistake or inadvertency,
had claimed "more than he had a right to claim as new."
The 15th section, in enumerating the defences which a defendaut may be allowed to make to a patent, states that inter alia
he may show, "that the patentee was not the original and first
inventor or discoverer of the thing patented, or of a substantial
and material part thereof claimed as new." And the proviso
to the same section allows the court to refuse costs, "when the
plaintiff shall fail to sustain his action on the ground that, in
his specification or claim, is embraced more than that of which
he was the first inventor."
The 7th section of the act of March 3, 1837, specially defines
the meaning of the phrase "too broad," to be "when the patent
claims more than that of which the patentee was the original
and first inventor." And the 9th section of the same act,
again providing for cases, where by accident or mistake, the
patentee claims more than he is justly entitled to, describes it to
be "where the patentee shall have in his specification claimed
to be the original inventor or discoverer of any material or substantial part, of which he is not the first and original inventor,
and shall have no legal and just right to the same."
Thus we see that it is only where, through inadvertence or
mistake, the patentee has claimed ometh. ng of which he was
"not the first inventor, that the court are directed to refuse costs.
The books of reports may be searched in vain for a case
where a patent has been declared void, for being too broad, in
any other sense.
Assuming it to be true, then, for the purpose of the argument,
that the new application of the power of electro-magnetism to
the art of telegraphing or printing characters at a distance, is
not the subject of a patent, because it is patenting a principle;
yet a$ it is also true, that Morse was the first who made this
application successftilly, as set forthin this eighth claim, I am
unable to comprehend how, in the words of the statute, we can
adjudge "that he has failed to sustain his a.ction, on the ground
that his specification or claim embraces more than that of
which he was the first inventor." It is for this alone that the
statute authorizes us to refuse costs.
4th. Assuming this eighth claim to be tco broad, it may well
be said, that the patentee has not unreasonably delayed a disclaimer, when we consider that it is not till this moment he
had keason to believe it was too broad. But the bill claims,
and it is sustained by proof, that the defendant tas infringed
the complainant7's second patent for his improve ment.
The court sustains the validity of this patent. Why, then,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Smith v. Ely et al.

is the complainant not entitled to his costs? At law, a recovery
on one good count is sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to recover
costs; and I can see no particular equity which the defendants
can claim, who are adjudged to have pirated two inventions at
once.
I am of opinion, therefore, that the decree of the Circuit
Court should be affirmed, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Disfrict of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel. On consideration, whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed, by
this c6urt, that the decree of the said Circuit Court, in this
cause, be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, except so much
thereof as decrees that the complainants shall recover their
costs, in the prosecution of this suit, of and from the defendants, and that that part of the said decree giving costs to the
complainants, be, and the same is hereby, reversed, and annulled.
And it is further ordered, and decreed, by this court, that the
parties, respectively, pay their own costs in this court, and in
the said Circuit Court.

FRANcIs 0. J. SMITH, PLAINTIFF, v. HnmeN B. ELY, HENRV
O'REILLY, ROBERT W. McCoy, THO-.%iAs MOODIE, MICHAEL

B.

BATEHAM, LINCOLN GOODALE, WRAY THoirAs, ALBERT
BUTTLES AND ROBERT NEIL.

B.

The preceding case of O'Reilly and Morse having settled the principles involved in
the controversy between them, this court declines to hear an argument upon tech-

nical points of pleading in a branch of the case cotaing from another State.
The case is remanded to the Circuit Conrt.

T-is cause came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Ohio, upon a certificate of division in
opinion between the judges thereof.
An action was brought by Smith, as the assignee of Morse
and Vail, against Ely, O'Reilly, and others, for an infringement
of Morse's patent rights to the telegraph, which are particularly
set forth in the report of the preceding case.
The first count of the declaration was upon the patent of
1840, surrendered and reissued in 1846.
12*

