10

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Patterson.

Tnn

UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS,

v.

THOuAS

H.

PATTERSON.

A claimant of a share of the grants spoken of in the preceding case, having failed to
produce evidence of the right of his grantor to convey io him, cannot have a decree
in his favor.
A person cannot intervene here who was no party to tho suit in the District Court.
And even if the practice of this court sanctioned such intervention, there is nothing
to show his right to do so in this case.

THis was a branch of the preceding case. The original title
and the lands were the same. Patterson claimed under a deed
executed on the 21st of November, 1836, by the heirs of William
Barr, deceased; but the deed purported to be executed by their
attorney in fact, Robert Thompson.
The cause was argued by the same counsel who argued the
preceding case, with the addition of Mr. Lawrence, who claimed
to intervene on behalf of the heirs of Joseph Piernas.
Mr. Lawrence, in support of this claim, alleged that, -The
petitioners rely upon a conveyance of Jacinto Mora to Barr,
,Davenport, and Murphey, bearing date the 22d day of July,
1805. This is the only title they set up in their petition to the
Ormegas tract.
During the progress of the cause they offered in evidence a
conveyance from Jacinto Mora to Joseph Jiernas, bearing date
the 25th of April, 1796, a paper purporting to be a conveyance
from Piernas to Vitor Portia, dated 30th August, 1804, and a
conveyance from Portia to Davenport, dated in the year 1818.
AU of these instruments of writing are in due form, except the
most important one, viz., that purporting to be from Piernas to
Portia, which was not authenticated by a notary or other officer,
is not taken from any legal depository, nor :recorded in the landoffice, and in which neither the hiandwriting of the witnesses
.nor of Piernas is proved, nor the witneess produced or their
absence accounted for. In short, there is no proof at all of the
genuineness of the paper, but it is left for the court to judge of
the genuineness of the signature of Piernas.
Now, it will be at once perceived that if there were no defect
in the chain of title frbm Piejnas to Davenport, this would have
been the elder and better title to Davenport as to the Ormegas
tract; and yet, though the conveyance to Do.venport of Piernas's
interest was in 1818, and this petition was iled in 1845, it is not
even alluded to in the petition.
It will be seen, from the extract from vol. 3, American State
Papers, (Rec. 46,) that as late as 1815-16, Piernas made claim

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

11

United States v. Patterson.

to this land before the board of commissioners, and no claim
was made by Vitor Portia.
In 1824 -5 the same land was recommended for confirmation,
but was never actually confirmed by Congress. Piernas had in
the mean time died, and his heirs were young children, living in
poverty and obscurity. (See letter of Hayward, Rec. 172; also
Report to Commissioner, Rec. 213.)
The heirs of Piernas deny that he ever signed the paper to
Portia, and aver that it is entirely fictitious.
Full notice of the claim of Piernas was before the court
below, for the petitioners introduced his title themselves. It
was, therefore, fully within the competency of the court below,
if they perceived, from the record, title in Piernas to the Ormegas tract, and had no legal evidence before them of his having
parted with that title, - to have reserved the rights of Piernas's
heirs iu their decree; and it is respectfully submitted, that it is
within the power of this court (should the validity of the grant
be affirmed) to protect those rights, so far as they appear in
the present record.
In the case of Cunningham and Ashley, (14 How. 377,) this
court interposed meso motu, to save the new Madrid title.
Here an older title is introduced. The act of Congress says the
court is to decide on evidence brought in by any person other
than the parties to the suit. If so, it is proper to intervene here.
The deed from Piernas to Portia had never been recorded, and
the court below had no right to receive it.

.1r. Baldwin, in reply to 31r. Lawreiwe, made the following
points:1. That the great lapse of time raised a strong presumption
against this claim.
From 24th day of April, 1818, when, as appears by the
record, Piernas conveyed his interest in that tract to Samuel
Davenport, no claim has ever been set up to this land, either by
Piernas or his heirs, until now, notwithstanding they reside in
New Orleans, where their suit was tried at great length in the
court below.
2. That the claimants under Plernas cannot intervene in this
court, it being a court of appellate jurisdiction.
3. That the deed from Piernas, being an ancient deed under
the laws of Louisiana, proved itself.
4. That it was regularly proved - the testimony of Crusat, as
to the signature of Piernas, having been taken without objection in the court below.
5. Thatthis court will not undertake to settlethq rights of parties in interest, but leave them to litigate their rights in the court

-SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Patterscn.

below, or in the State tribunals; and that whatever judgment the
court might pronounce in this matter, it would not be conclusive
between the parties.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered the opinion of the court.
This appeal was taken from a decree of the District Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The appellee claimed in the District Court a confirmation of
the grants for the La Nana and Los Ormegas tracts of land,
in which, he asserted an interest as an assignee of the heirs
of William Barr, one of the members of the firm of William
Barr & Co., in which they had been vested.
The questions of law and fact, arising in this case, are the
same as those determined in the case of the United States v.
Samuel Davenport's Heirs, in so far as they concern the validity
of the grants.
The evidence of the purchase by the pla:intiff from the heirs
of Barr is not sufficient. No power of attorney appears in the
record to Thompson, who made the conveyance to the plaintiff
in their name. It is therefore proper that the decree that shall
be entered shall be without prejudice to -their right, and this
opinion is filed in order that this judgment of the court may
be understood. The operation of the judgment will be, to perfect~the title for the benefit of the legal representatives of William
Barr.
In this cause, as well as in that of the United States v.
Samuel Davenport's Heirs, a motion was submitted on behalf
of the heirs of Joseph Piernas alleging that a deed from Joseph
Piernas to Victor Portia, dated the 30th Auigust, 1804, being a
link in the title to the Ormegas grant, was not sufficiently
proven, and suggesting that it was not a genuine deed, and praying f'or leave to intervene in this suit to su..tain their rights to
this property.
The court is of opinion that the motion cannot be allowed.
The plaintiff commenced his proceedings to assert his own
claims against the United States. Those proceedings can
neither benefit nor injure the persons interetted in this motion,
for they are not parties to the cause. The period for the assertion of a 6laim under the act of Congress of 17th June, 1844,
has expired. Neither in the District Couri; nor in this court
would it be lawful for persons, who failed to avail themselves
of the benefit of that act during its operation, to intervene for
the purpose of establishing a right under grants like these, after
its expiration, in a suit commenced by other persons.
In looking through the record, we find no fact to authorize the
belief that the heirs of Piernas have any title to the lands em-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

13

United States v. Patterson.

braced in these grants. If, therefore, it was compatible with the
constitution and practice of this Court, for a person to intervene here in a litigation, to which he was no party in the court
of original jurisdiction, we find nothing to authorize it in the
present- instance.
The decree will be entered here to conform to that pronounced in the suit of the United States v. Davenport's Heirs,
with the direction that the confirmation shall be for the use of
the legal representatives of William Barr, deceased.
Order.
This cause came to be heard on the transcript of the record from
the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is the opinion of -this Court that the grants set forth
in the record are valid grants, and so much of the decree of the
District Court as confirms them, should be affirmed for the use
of the legal representatives of William Barr, deceased; but that
such of the lands embraced by the said grants as have been sold
or otherwise disposed of by the United States, are exempt from
the operation of the said grants -and that so much ofthe decree of the said District Court as authorizes the location of so
many acres of the lands embraced in the said grants as have
been sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States on any
other unappropriated lands of the United States within the State
of Louisiana is erroneous, and should be reversed.
Whereupon it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that so much of the decree of the District Court as authorizes
the location of so many acres of the land as have been disposed
of by the United States on any other unappropriated lands of
the United States within the State of Louisiana be, and the
same is hereby reversed and annulled -and that the lands so
sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States be, and the
same are hereby exempted from the operation of the said grants.
And it is now here further ordered, adjudged, and decreed;
that so much of the decree of the said District Court as declares
the said grants to be valid, be, and the same is hereby affirmed
for the use of the legal representatives of William Barr, deceased.
VOL. XV.

