DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

Foley v. Harrison et al.

and if the plaintiff could have shown that the proprietors, under
whom he claimed, were legally entitled to it, the judgment of
the court must have been in his favor.
Nor do we see any thing in the opinion delivered on that occasion, in relation to the rights of fishery, further than they contributed to illustrate the character and objects of the charter to
the Duke of York; and to show that the soil, under public and
navigable waters, was granted to him, not as private property,
to be parcelled out and sold for his own personal emolument;
but as a part of the jur, regalia with which he was clothed,
and as such was surrendered by the proprietors to the English
crown, when they relinquished the powers of government, and
consequently belonged to the State of New Jersey when it became an independent sovereignty.
There being nothing in the title now claimed for the proprietors, to distinguish this case from that of Martin v. Waddell, it
is not necessary to examine the other and further grounds of
defence taken by the defendants.
The judgment of the circuit court must be affirmed with
costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of
New Jersey, and was argued by counsel. On considerationwhereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court, in this cause, be, and the
the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

AnTTHUR. IORGAN FOLEY, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. SA IUEL

T.

HARRISON, DEFENDANT, AND Louis LESASSIER, INTERVENOR.
In 1841, Congress passed an act (5 Stat. at Large, 455) declaring that there shall be
granted to each State, &c., (Louisiana being one,) five hundred thousand acres of
land.
This act did not convey the fee to any lands whatever; but left the land system of
the United States in full operation as to regulation of titles, so as to prevent ccnflicting entrie..

Hence, where a plaintiff claimed under a patent from the State of Louisiana, and
entries only in the United States office; and the defendant claimed under patents
from the United States, the title of the latter is the better in a petitory action.

The defendant has also the superior equity; because his entries were prior in time to
those of the plaintiff, and the decision of a board, consisting of the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Attorney-General, and the Commissioner of the Land Office, to whom
the matter had been referred by an act of Congress, was in favor of the defendant.
VOL. XV.

37

SUPREME COURT.
Foley v. Harrison et sl.

Tuis case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Louisiana, by a writ of error issued under the 25th section of the judiciary act.
It was a petitory action, commenced by Foley in the Fifth
Distriqt Court of New Orleans, claiming lots No. 1 and 2 of
section No. 3, the west half of section No. 10, and the northwest quarter of section No. 15, in township eleven, range thirteen east, containing in all 855 acres and nine hundredths.
By the act of 4th September, 1841, see-ion 8, (5 Statues at
Large, 455,) Congress granted to several of the States, of which
Louisiana was one, five hundred thousand acres of land each,
for purposes of internal improvement; "the selections in all of
said States to be made within their limit, respectively, in such
a manner as the legislatures thereof shall direct; and located,
in parcels conformably to sectional divisions and subdivisions
of not less than three hundred and twenty acres in any one location, on any public land except such as is or may be reserved
from sale by any law of Congress or proclamation of the President of the United States, which said locations may be made at
any time after the lands of the United States, in said States respectively, shall have been surveyed according to existing laws."
In 1844, the Legislature of Louisiana, in pursuance of the
power with which it was invested by the above-cited act of
Congress of directing the manner in which the selections of land
thus granted should be made, passed an act establishing an
office for the sale of the unlocated lands granted to the State,
with a register, and the State treasurer as the receiver thereof.
Session Acts of 1844, p. 61.
By the 7th section of that act, it was made the duty of the
register and treasurer "to issue warrants for the lands donated
by Congress, and not as yet located, provided they shall not be
issued for less than eighty nor more than six hundred and forty
acres, which warrants shall be sold in the same manner as the
lands located, provided they shall not be sold for less than three
dollars per acre; and it shall be the duty of the governor to
issue patents for all the lands that have been sold, and for the
lands located by warrants, when contemplated to be sold by
that act, whenever he shall be satisfied that the same have been
pxoperly located."
Under the provisions of the above-reci:ed act of Congress,
granting the land, and the above provisions of the State legislature, directing the manner in which the selections should be
made, Foley purchased two warrants from the State officers,
and, on the 7th January, 1846, located them in the Land Office
of the United States, at New Orleans, upon the lands now in
controversy.

DECEMBER TERA 1853.

435

Foley v. Harrison et al.

The defendants claimed title under five patents, issued from
the General Land Office on the 1st September, 1847. These
patents purported to be issued under an act of Congress of
August 3, 1846, and were founJed on certain floats, which were
claimed under the second section of the pre~inption act of
1830, (4 Stat. at Large, 421,) which was revived for two years
by the act.of 19th June, 1834, (4 Stat. at Large, 678.)
In order to show more clearly the respective titles of the
plaintiff and defendants, the reporter has arranged them in
chronological order.
Plaintiff's Title.
Act
134, Aments
190

Defendant's Title.
nti
preemption rights- settleincludedwithin the Houmas claimfloats issued-a large part of the claim
having been decided to be public land by
Commissioner Graham, in 1829, upon which
settlements were made. Barrett and Bell
located these floats upon the land now in dispute.
Acts

Commissioner of the General Land Office
directed the Register and Receiver at New
Orleans to withhold from sale all the lands
within the claimed limits of the Houmas
grant.
May 17. Sale by Barrett to Bell.
Congre s pazzed an act (5 Stat. at
1841. Large, 455) declaring that thereshall
&c.,acres
(LouisSept. 4. be granted to each State,
of
iana being one,) 8,000
land.
1844.
March 25.

1845.
Dec.
24.

1846.

The Houmas claim confirmed in its whole
Louisiana passed an act authorizhig the State Register to extent Dy the Secretary of the Treasury.
issue warrants for the above Entries made of locations from floats arising
within it ordered $o be cancelled. Patents
land.
were ordered to be issued for the whole of
the Houmas claim.
May 3. Sale by Widow Bell to Harrison.
The Commissioner of the General Land Office wrote that the
entries left the land
cancelled
public, and it could be entered
br the State. Foley accordingly
n ade his location. Harrison filed
a caveat in the State Land Office.

January 7. Foley made his location at the Register's Office of the
United States, upon the lands now
in controver.v.
March 9. (ommis.sioner wrote to
the Register and Receiver at New
,jrleans, suspending entries, either
by State selection or otherwise.
April 20. Foley took out two patent, from the overnor of Louisiana.

436

SUPREME COURT.
Foley v. Barrison et &I.
August 3. Congress passed an act provid.
lug for the adjustment of all suspended preerption land claims. The Commissioner of
the Land Offce, the Attorney-General, and
Secretary of he Treasury were to decide.

Feb. 5. Foley brought suit against Harrison in the fifth Distriot Court of New
Orleans (State court.)
1847.

June 28. The Secretary of the Trensur-v
decided that be would approve the locations
made under the floating claims held by the
actual settler; and improved by them, in
preference to the State locations, made sub
sequently, and covering these improvements.
July 9. The Commissioner,
August 2. The Acting Secretary of the

Treasury,

August 27. The Attorney-General; all
sanctioned this decision.
Sept 1. Fve patents issued from the
United States to Harrison.

1848.

January 7. Foley located two
warrants upon the property in dispute, and entered them at the Land
Office of the United States at New
Orleans.

The District Court decided that Foley should recover thelot No.
1, of section 3, township eleven, range 13 esst, containing 211Ar
acres, and that the plea of prescription pleaded by defendant be
sustained as to lot No. 2, of section 3, township eleven, range 13
east, and the west half of section 10 of the same township and
range.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana reversed this decree, and
ordered judgment for the defendant for the land in controversy.
Foley sued out a writ of error under the 25th section of the
judiciary act, and brought the case up to this court.
It was argued by Mr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr.Benjamin, for the defendant in error.
Hr. Lawrence. The 1st section of the act of 1830 gave to
any settler on public land, &c;, the right of preemption to the
quarter section settled on. The 2d section provided that where
two or more persons were settled on the same quarter section,
the first two settlers should each take 6ne half of said quhrter
section, if by a north and south or east and west line it could
be so divided as to include the settlement and improvement of
each in a half quarter section; and in such case the said settlers
shall be entitled to a preemption of eighty acres of land else-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Foley v. Harrison et al.

where in the same district. This latter privilege was called a
"floating right," or "float."
Now, without being so hypercritical as to contend that this
section only intended to confer a floating right when the quarter section could be divided in half by a north and south or east
and west line, so as to include in separate parts the improvements of each settler, it is very clearly the intention of Congress
not to confer the right of preeimption to eighty acres "elsewhere,"
unless the parties had under the same act the right of a preemption to the quarter-section settled on. If the latter were not
publi. land, -were reserved land, were not the subject of a preemption right, then no settlement on such land could give a floating privilege elsewhere. And so it has been universally held in
the land department. In fact, the 4th section of the act expressly declares, "nor shall the right of preemption contemplated
by this act extend to any land which is reserved from sale by
act of Congress. or by order of the President, or which may have
been appropriated for any purpose whatever." 19 Louis. Rep.

399; 2 Laws Ins. and Op. 632.

Now it is especially to be observed that the settlement, out
of which these floats are supposed to arise, was within the
claimed limits of the Houmas grant. This is not disputed.
By agreement of parties the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury on the Houmas claim is made evidence in this cause.
I do not intend to trouble the court with any argument as to
the validity or invalidity of the Houmas claim in its whole extent., or in any part of its extent. It has been a matter of controversy in the Treasury Department from the time of the acquisition of Louisiana to this day. All that is necessary to be
known bi this cause is, that its limits were claimed to be from
the Mississippi to the Amite, and so the claim was filed. See
Report of Secretary of Treasury, pp. 96, 97.
The 6th section of the act of 3d March, 1811, which authorizes the sale of the public lands in the territory of Louisiana,
has the following proviso: "That, till after the decision of
Congress thereon, no tract of land shall be offered for-sale the
claim to which has been in due time and according to law
presented to the Register of the Land Office, and filed in his office
for the purpose of being investigated by the commissioners appointed for ascertaining the rights of persons claiming lands in
the territpry of Orleans." 2 Stat. 665.
If, then, this clain *has not been acted on by the decision
of Congress, neither a preemption right to land settled on within

it, nor a floating right to a preemption elsewhere by virtue of
any settlement within it, could be acquired.
Several different views have been taken of the Houmas
37*

438

SUPREME COURT.
Foley v. Harrison et -al.

claim. By some it has been supposed to be a complete grant,
needing no confirmation from this government. By others it
has been supposed to have been confirmed to its full extent by
the decisions of the commissioners under the acts of 2d March,
1805, (2 Statutes, 324,) and 21st April, 1806, (2 Statutes, 391,)
and by the confirmation certificates issued by the commissioners. By others it has been held that the commissioners had no
power under those acts to issue final certif.cates, and could only
submit the claims presented to them for the decision of Congress.
Again, it has been supposed that this claim was confirmed by
the act of 12th and 18th April, 1814, (3 Statutes, 121-139.)
Now, it is immaterial to the particular question involved in
this case, viz. whether the lands within the Houmas claim were
reserved lands, which of these conflicting views i. correct, or
whether any of them are correct. For if Congress, by these acts,
has not made its decision on the Houmas claim, then by the act
of 1811 it is still reserved from sale. If it was a complete grant
from the iississippi to the Amite, it was not within the operation of the pre~imption act of 1830; it was not public land. If,
as Ir. Graham supposed, the validity of the grant was affirmed
by the commissioners under the acts of 180.5 and 1806, but that
the extent of its limits required judicial determination, it was
still claimed before the boards of commissioners, and filed with
the recorder of land titles, as a grant from the M/_ississippi to
the Amit6, and, unless it,
has been acted on by Congress, is
still reserved from sale, under the act of 1811. If the commissioners, under the acts of 180.5 and 1806, had power to decide
this claim finally, then they did decide in ftvor of the claim, and
issued their cerificates of confirmation, and it was no longer
public land. If the effect of the act of 1814 was to confirm the
certificates issued by the commissioners under the acts of 1805
and 1806, as ?. Secretary Bibb decided, (and under his decision patents have been issued for the whole Houmas claim,)
then the act of 1814 was the decision of Congress contemplated
in the act of 1811, and the claim, to its full extent, was private
property, and not public land. And if, as Mr. Attqrney-General
Clifford holds, the act of 1814 was only ir..tended to cover cases
in which certificates of confirmation had b6en properly issued,
under the acts of 1805 and 1806, and these certificates had not
been properly issued, then the Houmas claim is still undecided,
and, of course, the land within it is still reserved.
It is obvious, then, that under any of these conflicting views,
the land within the limits oi the Houmas claim was not subject
to the operation of the preemption laws, and that the settlements thereon conferred no rights either to the lands themselves
or to floats. The entries which were permitted, therefore, were,

DECEMBER TERMI, 1853.

43S

Foley v. Harrison et al.

absolutely void; and so Attorney-General Legare decided.
Brown's lessee v. Clements, 3 Howard, 664- 5; Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 498;, Stoddard v. Chambers, 2 Howard, 318.
The entries, permitted by the location of these floats, -vere
accordingly cancelled in 1844. And it was after this cancellation of those entries that our locations were made by virtue of
the State warrants.
The court below seemed to be of opinion that these entries
were authorized by Commissioner Graham, in a letter to the
surveyor-general, of February 17, 1829. (2 Laws Ins. and Op.
893.
In this letter l\Ir. Graham supposes that the board of commissioners had only decided on the validity of the grant, leaving
the extent to be determined by the courts. And he supposes
that a survey running back I, leagues in depth, would leave
sufficient space for the determination of the courts. But he
does not, by a single word, authorize (if he could) the register
and receiver to permit entries of any kind. The letter was not
addressed to theni. Indeed, the land was not at that date subject to sale, public or private. There was no preemption law
in force at the time. But if there had been, and if it had contained instructions to permit entries beyond the league and a
half, it would have been in direct contravention of the act of
1811. These entries were permitted by the register and receiver,
not only without any instructions from the General Land Office,
but in violation of the act of 1811, and were therefore void.
Now we do not rely upon any particular virtue in the mere
act of cancellation, except so far as it was an official declaration
of the invalidity of the floats. We do not mean to contend that
the General Land Office can take away any real right of a certificate holder, by cancelling the certificate; and yet we do not
doubt that the commissioner may cancel a void certificate of
entry. The cancellation does not make the entry void, but the
nullity of the entry is the reason for the cancellation. The
party is not deprived of any right.by the cancellation, because,
the entry being void, the party had acquired no right, by the

entry.
But whether these entries were cancelled properly or improperly, or if they had not been cancelled at all, it is enough for
gur purpose that they were void. They formed no obstacle to
the sale of the land to any one else, or to a location of the ldnd
by any one else.
This is the uniform and clear doctrine of this court, as well
as of the Supreme Court of Louisiana itself. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498; Ballance v. Forsyth, 13 Howard, 18; Campbell
v. Doe, 13 Howard, 245; 19 Louis. Rep. 334, 510; 3 Rob. 293.

440

SUPREME COURT.
Foley v. Harrison et a].

We have thus far considered the right of the plaintiff in error,
upon his certificates of location alone, and without reference to
the State patents.
According to the cases above cited from the Louisiana Reports,
such certificates were sufficient ground for a petitory action.
The case of Surgett v. Lapice et al. 8 Howard, 48, in this
court, sustains the same ground.
2. Let us now inquire whether those patents, under the act
of C3ngress of 1841, do not pass the fee in the lands selected,
without any further patents from the United States.
* The court below seem to suppose that 'nothing but a patent
can pass the fee from the United States, and they cite cases to
sustain that view. If that court had examined those cases a
little more carefully, it would have been seen that this court expressly mentions legislative grants as cases in which no patent
issues. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498.
The act of 1841 enacts that there shall be granted to each of
the States named 500,000 acres of land; and provides that the
selection should be made in the manner directed by the State
legislatures. It does not itself provide for ;he issuing of patents
by the General Land Office. The Legislature of Louisiana directed the manner in which her selections should be made, and
also that the governor'should issue patenis. As soon, then, as
the locations of the State warrants were made in the United
States Land Office, upon public land which had been surveyed,
and which was not reserved, then by force of the act of Congress of 1841, and the act of the State legislature in pursuance
of it, the fee in those particular lands passed from the United
States.
It has been shown, then, that, at the time when Foley's locations were made on the lands in controversy, they were public
lands, and that the defendant's location of floats thereon was
void, and had been cancelled by the land office, because the
settlements out of which those floats had arisen were within
the Houmas claim.
Let us now see by what authority the patents were subsequently issued to the defendant upon these floats.
They were issued under the supposed aathority of the act of
3d August, 1846, (9 Stat. 51,) upon the mistaken idea that the
State selections required the approval of the Treasury Department before any right could be acquired under them.
It is to be observed that the State selections were not approved by the General Land Office merely because of a contemplated law, (which, as will be seen hereafter, never passed,) to
confirm the entries by floats arising out of the Houmas claim.
No other reason is. assigned for their non-approval. The very

DECEt3MBER TERM, 1853.

441

Foley v. Harrison et al.

letter which submits them for the action of the secretary, states
that the selections were made on land liable to selection, and
that the register and receiver had been so instructed. And the
Secretary of the Treasury, in making his decision, offers no objection to the propriety of the State selecti6ns. He merely
"proposes" to approve the locations by the floats, rather than
the locations by the State warrants, under the idea that the
respective rights of the parties rested in his discretion alone.
Now there is not one word in the act of 1841 requiring the
State selections to be approved by the Treasury Department.
The selections were to be made in the manner to be directed
by the State legislatures. It is true the selections could only
be made of surveyed, unreserved public land, and in certain
parcels. But that is just as true of all the preemption laws.
And yet this court has uniformly held that a pre6mptioner acquires a right by his settlement under the law, although the
land department disapproves of the entry. Lytle v. Arkansas,
9 Howard, 314; Cunningham v. Ashley et al. 14 Howard, 377;
Surgett v. Lapice, 8 Howard, 48.
There are laws which expressly require the approval of the
Secretary of the Treasury, but this is not one of those. The
land department has a very proper regulation of its own, both
in regard to State selections and claims to preemption, under
which its officers examine whether the particular case conforms
to the law under which the claim is made. But it is not understood therp as adding any thing to the right of the claimant by
its approval, or taking away any thing from it by its disapproval.
If the law gives the right, the person has it, whether the office
approves or disapproves.
But if any approval were necessary to confirm the plaintiff's
right, such approval was had, as to two of the tracts in controversy.
3. It is submitted, on the part of the plaintiff in error, that
the act of 3d August, 1846, was not applicable to the case of
the defendants in error. That act applied to "suspended"
entries, -not to void and cancelled entries. The term "suspended
entries" is one well known to the land office, and is always used
to designate entries of land under the authority of law, but
which are not patented, because of some informalities attending
them. They are, consequently, held in suspense in the General
Land Office, until those informalities are cured. But in the
case of void entries they are cancelled, and the receiver is
ordered to refund the money paid on them.
It is true that a law was recommended to Congress confirming entries by floats arising out of the Houmas claim. But
that recommendation was not carried into effect; and the reason

442

SUPREkE COURT.
Foley v. Harrison et al.

why it was not carried into. effect was, that almost every one of
them was found to be fraudulent. But even that law only pro.
posed to confirm entries where no private right had in the mean
time been acquired. And it also was intended to exclude all
cases in which fraud appeared.
I But the law did not pass, And for good.reasons; and the attempt is now made to bring these void, cancelled, and probably
fraudulent, entries within a general law applicable to all the
States, providing merely for the issuing of patents in suspended
cases.
4. But even if the defendant's entries were -within the mean.
ing of the act of 1846, the rights of the plaintiff are expressly
saved.. The proviso to the first section enacts that the adjudications "shall only operate to divest the United States of the
title to the land embraced by such entries, -without prejudice to
the rights of conflicting claimants."
Without this proviso there can be little doubt that any previously-acquired right would be good against the confirmation
authorized by this act. But with the poviso, such is cannot
be overlooked. Mills v. Stoddard, 8 Howa'd, 365; Stoddard ,.
1
13 Howard,1&
Howard,
Ballance , Forh,
Ciambers,
b. As to 2the
plea of 284;
prescription:
Under the
Unitd
andcan
theinter-.
acts
admitng newConstaution
Stafes into of
tiethe
Union,
no States,
State law
fee with the primary disposal of the public lands. Prscription
cannot run until the legal title is out of the United States.
Were it otherwise, effect could be given to State laws which
would invalidate the titles emanating from the United States,
and depriw the federal government virtually of the power of
disposal WDich the Constitation secures. The legal title did
not pass to the plaintiff until the location was made on the
lands in controversy in'1846. "Thib suit was commenced in 1847.
ILfan agreement, found on page.75 of the record, it will be
seen that all questions as to improvements, rents, profits, are
reserved.
It is confidently submitted:
1. That the floats of the defendant wera originally void, because they arose from a settlement on reserved land.
2. That the locationof those void floats Dn the tracts in controversy gave no title whatsoever to those tracts.
3. That those tracts were in 1846 (and were so decided to be
by the land department) public, unreserved, surveyed lands, and
consequently within the operation of the ast of 4th September,
1641.
4. That the locations of the plaintiff were made in the manner directed by the legislature of Louisiana.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Foley v. Harrison et al.

5. That those locations, so made, gave to the plaintiff a valid
right to the tracts located, by force of the act of 1841, without
any approval of the land department.
6. That if such approval had been necessary, it was had in
the letter of the commissioner, on page 14 of the record.
7. That no subsequent law of Congress could defeat such

rigAt.
S. That the act -of!3d August, 1846, expressly reserved such
right, and that for these reasons the plaintiff in error is entitled
to recover.
Mr. Benjamin, for the defendant in error, made the folow,,g
points.
I. The title set up by plaintiff is not, under the evidence adduced, either a legal or equitable title to the land in controversy.
The 8th section of the act of Congress of the 4th September,
1841, (5 Statutes at Large, 455,) granting 500,000 acres of land
to the State of Louisiana, does not set apart any particular land,
and separate it from the public domain. It only authorizes the
State to make locations of land to that extent; and the location,
when made by the State, does not ipso facto separate from the
public domain the land so located. Nothing in the act deprives
the officers who are charged with the duty of executing the land
laws of their control over the locations, in order to see that
they conform to the law; that they are lands which have been
previously surveyed; that they are vacant; that they have not
been reserved, &c., &c. It is only upon the approval of such
locations that the final severance from the public domain of the
lands so located takes effect.
Such is the practice and settled construction of the law in the
General Land Office.
The location by the State, of the land in controversy, was not
approved.
The patents issued by the State of Louisiana can have no
effect upon the title; they only operate as a conveyance of the
right of the State. Now, these patents are dated 20th April,
1846. But on the 9th March, 1846, the commissioner of the
General Land Office had instructed the land officers in New
Orleans not to permit the location of the lands in controversy,
and had reserved action on locations already made, until Congress should determine the course to be pursued.
It also appears, from the testimony of Robert J. Ker, the Regis.
ter of the State Land Office,-that the plaintiff was aware that the
land which he sought to locate under the State warrant., was
claimed by others; that the warrant for the entry of the land in
controversy Was refused to him, and only floating warrants ac-

. 44

SUPREME COURT.
Foley v. Harrison et al.

corded ; and that under these floating warrants he entered the
very lands which the State register had refused to him.
The foregoing recital of facts shows a total absence of any
title whatever. The United States have issued a patent certificate to defendant, and having refused to issue a patent to the
plaintiff, or to approve of his location, the case comes completely
ithin the principles established in Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters,
498; Bragnelle v. Broderick, 13 Peters, 436.
II. The question of title between the ptrtier has already been
settled by the judgment of a special tribunal, authorized by Congress to take cognizance of the contoversy, and to decide it
conclusively between the parties.
By the first section of 'theact of Congress of 3d August, 1846,
(9 Statutes at Large, 51,) the Commissioner of the General Land
Office was " authorized and empowered to determine, upon principles of equity and justice, as recognize:l in courts of equity
-and in abcordance with general equitable rules and regulations,
to be settled by the Secretary of the Treasury, the AttorneyGeneral, and Commissioner, conjointly, cclsistently with such
principles, all cases of suspended entries now existing in said
land office, and to adjudge in what casEs patents shall issue
upon the same." The second section of the laws speaks of "the
power and jurisdiction" given to the commissioner, and of his
"adjudications;" and the fourth section clrects patents to issue
to those persons in whose favor decisions have been rendered.
By reference to the record, page 57, it -will be seen that the
tribunal, thus authorized by Congress, made an adjudication in
favor of the defendant in error, which was approved by the acting Secretary of the Treasury, p. 59, and by the Attorney-General, p. 59, and was in corformity with the rules and regulations established under the act, and the principle previously proposed by the secretary.
The act of Congress grants no appeal from the decision of the
commissioner, and the proposition is too clear for argument that
the power-of Congress to dispose of the pt.blic lands is complete
and unlimited. If,therefore, the case was within the jurisdiction conferred by the act, the question is res judicata.
The act confers the power to decide "all cases of suspended
entries now existing in said land office." Was the case of defendant a suspended entry? A conuclusive answer to this inquiry is found in the letter of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, dated 9th of March, 1846, in w.rhich he expressly
-ays that these entries, as well as the State selections, are "suspended to await the action of Congress."
Bt it'is contended that the original enxies, under which the
patents were issued to.defendants, were utterly void, as being in

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

445

Foley v. Harrison et al.

violation of the proviso of the 6th and 10th sections of the act
of Congress of 3d March, 1811, (2 Stat. at Large, 662.) The
answer to this objection is found in the fact that the confirmation of the Houmas grant by the act of the 12th April, .1814,
(3 Stat. at Large, 121,) satisfied the object of this proviso.
But, independently of this consideration, it is sufficient to say
that the question whether the entries were or were not void, is
one of the very questions which, by the terms of the act of Congress, were submitted to the decision of the special tribunal
created by that act. Its language declares that the commissioner is to decide "all cases of suspended entries," and necessarily confers on hin the power to decide whether the entry was
void or voidable, or valid. This is the precise jurisdiction conferred on him, and the jurisdiction is without appeal. The argument of the plaintiff calls on this court to reverse the decision of
the commissioner who pronounced that the entry was not void,
but was a sufficient basis for a patent, which is equivalent to
calling on the court to exercise an appellate jurisdiction over his'
judgment on the merits of the entry. The commissioner can in
no sense be said to have assumed a jurisdiction over a subject
not confided to him by the act. There is no exception made by
the lawgiver-all suspended entries are to be determined.
The only legitimate subject of inquiry is, whether the defendant's entry was a suspended one; as soon as this is ascertained,
in the affirmative, the jurisdiction attaches, and the allegation
by the plaintiff that the entry was void is simply an assertion
that the commissioner erred in deciding it not to be void.
That the decision of the tribunal, created by the act of Congress to decide on this suspended entry, is conclusive, is established by the jurisprudence of this court. Wilcox v. Jackson,
13 Peters, 498; Elliott et al. v. Peirsol et al. 1 Peters, 328.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of thercoart.
This is a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the State of
Louisiana.
A petitory action by petition was commenced in the fifth District Court of New Orleans, on the 5th of February, 1847, by the
plaintiff .in error, claiming a tract of land of which the defendant had possession. The plaintiff claims under two patents
from the State of Louisiana, issued under the law of that State
of the 25th of March, 1844, and alleges title in the State, under
the act of Congress of 4th September, 1841.
On the day the action was commenced, the defendant filed
his answer claiming the same land under a purchase made by
Robert Bell and Thomas Barrett from the United States, the
16th of May, 1836, and by mesne conveyances transmitted to
VOL. XV.
38

446

SUPREM1E COURT.
Foley v. Harrison et al.

the defendant. He pleads a prescription of a peaceable possession of more than ten years- that large and valuable improvements have been made on the premises, &e.
On the trial in the District Court of New Orleans, the plain.
tiff gave in evidence, patents from the State of Louisiana, for
eight hundred and fifty-five acres and nine hundredths of an acre,
the land in controversy, by virtue of the act of Congress of the
4th of September, 1841. The certificates cf entries of the land
were also in evidence.
The defendant produced in evidence five patents from the
United States, dated 1st of September, 1847, and a sale of the
premises by Thomas Barrett to Robert Bell by authentic act on
17th May, 1836, and a series of mesne conveyances, terminating
in a sale and conveyance by the widow R. Bell, to the defendant, on the 9th of May, 1844.
A jury not being demanded under the Louisiana ]lw, the
court, gave judgment that the plaintiff reco'rer of the defendant
lot No. 1 of section 3, township 11, range 13 east, containing
211 acres. The plea of prescription was sustained as to the
residue of the tract. From this judgment; the defendant appealed to the Supreme Court of the State.
The Supreme Court reversed the judgment of the District
Court, and entered judgment in favor of the defendant for the
land in controversy.
The plaintiff, on the ground that he cla'Lmed title under an
act of Congress, -and relied on the construction of another act,
to nullify the title of defendant, and as the decision of the Supreme Court was against the right asserted by him, procured
the allowance of a writ of error under the 25th section of the
judiciary act.
The 8th section of the act of 4th September, 1841, declares,
"that there shall be granted to each State specified in the first
section of the act, of which Louisiana iti one, five hundred
thousand acresof land for purposes of internal improvement,"
provided such State had not received land for that purpose.
And it is provided that "the selections in all of the said States,
shall be made within their limits respectively, in such manner
as the legislature shall direct; located in parcels conformably to
sectional divisions and subdivisions, of not less than three hunired and twenty acres inany one location, on any public land
except such as is or may be reserved from sale, &c.;" no.locations to be made until the land shall be surveyed by the United
States.
In 1844 the legislature of Louisiana passed an act, establishig an office for the sale of the unlocated lands ganted-to the
State, -with a Register and State Treasurer as receiver.
The 7th section of the act makes it the duty of the register

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

447

Foley v. Harrison et al.

and treasurer, to issue warrants for the lands'donated by Congress and not as yet located, provided they shall'not be issued
for less than eighty nor more than six hundred and forty acres,
which warrants shall be sold in the same manner as the lands
located, provided they shall not be sold for less than three dollars per acre; and it shall be the duty of the governor to issue
patents for all the lands that have been sold, and for the lands
located by warrants, when contemplated to be sold by that act,
whenever he shall be satisfied that the same must have been
properly located."
Under the act of Congress and the State law, the plaintiff
purchased, it is alleged, two warrants from the State officers,
and on the 7th of January, 1848, entered them in the Land Office
of the United States, at New Orleans, upon the lands in controversy. And it is contended, that these locations, independently of the patent issued by the State, being made on public
land not reserved from sale by any law of Congress or proclamation of the President, which had been surveyed, and were
entered in parcels conformably to the act of Congress, gave the
plaintiff a right to the lands in controversy under the act of
1841, unless the defendant had, at that time, an equitable or
legal title to them.
The act of 1841 authorized the State to enter the lands, where
surveys had been executed and the lands were open to entry,
under the acts of Congress. The State of Louisiana acted
within its powers, in issuing warrants, and establishing land.
offices, as a means of disposing of the lands. But it had not,
the power to convey the fee, as it had not been parted with by
the general government. The words of the act of 1841, are
"that there shall be granted to each State," not that there is
hereby granted. The words import, that a grant shall be made
in future. Lessieur et al. v. Price, 12 Peters, 75.
It could not have been the intention of the government, to relinquish the exercise of power over the public lands, that might
be located by the State. The same system was to be observed'
in the entry of lands by the State as by individuals, except the
payment of the money; and this was necessary to give effect to
the act, and to prevent conflicting entries.
The defendant claims under five patents from the "United
States, dated the 1st of September, 1847, which was some
months after this suit was commenced. These patents were"
issued under the act of 3d of August, 1846. That act provides,
"that the Commissioner of the General Land Office be, and he
is hereby authorized and empowered, to determine, upon principles of equity and justice, as recognized in courts of equity, and
in accordance with general equitable rules and regulations, to

448

SUPREME COURT.
Foley v. Harrison et al.

be settled by the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney-General, and Commissioner conjointly, consistently with such principles, all cases of suspended entries, now existing in said land
offices, and to adjudge in what cases patents shall issue upon
the same." This power is limited to two years; and the exercise of it shall only operate to divest the title of the United
States, but shall not prejudice.conflicting claimants.
By the above act the commissioner was required to arrange
his decisions in two classes, and the 4th section requires patents
to be issued in cases in the first class.
On the 9th of July 1847, ,the commissioner reported to the
Secretary of the Treasury "ten entries by preUmption, made at
the Land Office of New Orleans, which were heretofore suspended, at the General Land Office. He says, they have been
adjudicated by me and placed in the first class, under the act
of the 3d August, 1846. It is stated thet the first seven, of the
ten cases reported, are entries by floats, arising from settlements
-within the Houmas claim, and would have been embraced with
similar cases in abstract No. 13; but that the land in whole or
in part, has been selected by the State under the act of 4th of
September, 1841, since the floats were decided to be illegal
under the act of 1834." This report is agreed to by the acting
Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney-General.
As this decision was made by a special tribunal, with full
powers to examine and decide; and, as there is no provision for
an appeal to any other jurisdiction, the decision isfinal within
the law.
Under the preemption act of 1830, rev-.ved and continued
for two years by the act of 1834, preemption rights were granted
to settlers on the public lands, not exceeding to each settler one
hundred and sixty acres. And where two ,settlers are found on.
the same quarter section, each being entitled to a preemption
for one hundred and sixty acres, the quarter which they occupied was divided between them, and each received a certificate
for eighty acres in addition, giving a preemption right elsewhere
on the public lands, which certificates were called floats. A
Thomas
certficates
these Bell,
number
the
located Barthey
of which by
vituepurchased
and bywere
Robert
rett and of
as certificates
doubts exthe Houmas
these
which and
on claim,
were made
settlements
The on
issued
dispute.
were
land in
isted whether the land embraced by this clah would be properly
called public lands, under the pre mption laws, the entries were
suspended. Aid these were the entries included in tie above
report of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and
sanctioned by the Secretary of the Treasury and the AttorneyGeneral.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

449

Foley v. Harrison et al.

The patents issued by the State to the plaintiff were dated
the 20th of April, 1846. And it seems that, on the 9th of the
preceding month, the Commissioner of the General Land Office
wrote to the Register and Recorder of New Orleans: "As Congress has taken the subject of the floating pre~mption entries
arising from preemption settlements within the limits. of the
Houmas private claim into consideration, and is about to confirm them in the hands of bond fide assignees, I deem it proper, in order to prevent future inconvenience, to direct that all
the land embraced by such entries, except as to those where the
purchase-money has been refunded and the claim abandoned,
be hereby considered as excused from disposition in any way,
either by State selection or otherwise. The State selections
already
made will be suspended to await the action of Con))
gress.
"If the contemplated law confirms all eritries in the hands
of bon2 fide assignees, it will, in all probability, defeat all locations made by State selections. In the mean time, it is necessary that all appropriations of the lands covered by such entries be suspended."
It is true that, on the 24th December, 1845, the commissioner
wrote to the same land office "that, after the cancellation of
pregmption claims, if the land is not otherwise interfered with
or reserved, it is considered as public land liable to be located
by the State." And it seems that the tracts for which the plaintiff obtained patents, were designated in the letter of the commissioner as coming within the category.
This decision or opinion of the commissioner did not affect
the rights of the defendant, as appears from subsequent proceedings of the same office. As soon as the defendant was
apprised of the above letter, he filed a caveat in the State Land
Office, and, on the 9th of March, 1846, the commissioner, in his
letter, as above stated, suspended the plaintiff's entries. And,
on the 25th of June, 1847, the Secretary of the Treasury, on a
representation 'made by the Commissioner of the Laud Office,
"approved the locations made under the floating claims, held by
the actual settlers who had improved the land, in preference to
State locations. And this decision was sustained in the proceeding under the act of the d of August, 1846, by the report
of the commissioner, sanctioned by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney-General, as above stated.
The Houmas claim, as filed before the Commissioners on
Land Titles, extended from the Mississippi river to the Amite,
embracing a large extent of country. It was confirmed by the
commissioners, and also by an act of Congress passed in 1814.
This confirmation, however, was construed to be limited, and
380

450

SUPREME COURT.
Foley v. Harrison et al.

not extending to the boundaries claimed. The survey authorized by the Treasury Department extended only one and a half
leagues back from the river; and the register and receiver were
instructed to treat the residue of the claim as public lands.
This induced a great many persons to settle on the claim up
to the year 1836. In that year, by order of the Land Office,
the register and receiver were directed to withhold from sale the
lands within the claim. This suspension was continued, and
the patent certificates which had been issued to purchasers were
declared to have been issued without authority.
Afterwards, in 1844, this claim, to its whole extent, was recognized as valid by the Secretary of the Treasury; in consequence of which, entries made within the grant were cancelled,
and the purchase-money returned. *This action of the Land
Office has been referred to, for the purpose of understanding
the nature of the preEmption rights acquired by settlers upon
the Houmas claim, and the floats which were issued, as above
explained, under the law. These floats were issued under the
authority of the government, and, when presented by bond fide
purchasers, could not be disregarded. This was the origin of
the right set up b'y the defendant. It ha; been sanctioned by
the Land Office, by the Secretary of the Treasury, and the At.
torney-General, under the act of 1846, and a patent has been
granted. Under the claim of the defendant, possession of the
land has been held many years, and the improvements on it
have made it of great value.
The plaintiff's title originated by his obtaining a float, as it
was called, from the State Land Office, at three dollars an acre,
in virtue of which he located the land ii controversy, on 7th
January, 1846, with the Register of the Land Office of the
United States. The plaintiff, through John Laidlaw, made an
application to have the land specified in the float or warrant,
but the Register of the State declined to specify any lands in
the warrant. He refused for some time to issue a patent on the
location, as he had "misgivings" as to whether it would be
right for him to do so; but eventually he issued it on the order
of the governor, to test the validity of the title.
As the patent frcm the State did not convey the legal title
to the plaintiff, he must rely only on his entry, and that, in a
petitory action, cannot stand against the patent of the defendant. But, if the case were before us on the equities of the parties, the result would be the same. The entries of the land
claimed by the defendant were prior in. lime to those of the
plaintiff, and of paramount equity. The entries of both claims
were.suspended by the order of the government, and the decision of the Secretary, and especially the ,ecision of the Coin-

DECEM1BER TERM,

1853.

451

Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

missioner, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the AttorneyGeneral, under the act of 1846, was final, and related back to
the original entries of the land. The circumstances under
which thb plaintiff located his warrants on a very valuable sugar
plantation, of which the defendant had long been in possession,
do not strongly recommend his equity. We affirom the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

ERASTUS

F. WINSLOW, AND JA1ns HORNER,
TiE TROY IRON AND NAIL FACTORY.

CORNING, JoHN

APPELLANTS, V.

Where the re-pondent in a chancery suit in the Circuis Court took two grounds of
defenice, and the judge,' in giving his reasons for a decree dismissing the bill, upon
one ctf the two grounds, expressed his opinion that the respondent had not established
the other ground, he cannot appeal from this as a part of the decree.
The decree as in the respondent's favor, dismissing the bill with costs, and no appeal
lis from an opinion expresed by the judge upon the facts of the case, not affecting
the decree.
Mlorover, the decree complained of has already been argued before this court upon
the appeal of the other party, and both grounds of defence decided to be insufficient, and the decree roversed. There is, therefore, no such decree as that appealed
from.
Besid',, the court below has not acted upon the mandate and entered a final decree;
therefore there iLno final decree to appeal from.

THis was an appeal from the Cheuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York, sitting as a court
of equity.
It was a branch of the case of Troy Iron and Nail Factory v.
Corning et al. reported in 14 How. 193. The decree of the Circuit Court, now appealed from, is given at page 194. The bill
was originally filed by the Troy Iron and Nail Factory against
Corning et al. and the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, but this
court reversed that decree. By reference to page 194, 14 Howard, it will be seen, that the Circuit Court, in its decree, used the
following language, viz. "And it appearing to the said court
that the said Henry Burden was the first and original inventor

