DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

189

Rockhill et al. v. Vanna et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the district of
East Tennessee, and was argued by counsel. -On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the saia Circuit Court in this cause be, and the.
same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

THOMAS C. ROCKHILL, WADE T. SMITH, AND WILLIAM P. RocHILL, PLAINTIFFS, V. ROBERT HANNA, AsA B. STRONG, EDWARD HEIZER, AARON ALDRIDGE, ROBERT B. HANNA, DAVID
SHIELDS, THOMAS JOHNSON, JEREMIAH JOHNSON, AND GEORGE
BRUCE.
Three judgments were entered up against a debtor on the same day.
One of the creditors issued a capias ed satisfaciendum in February, and the other.two
issued writs of ficrifaciasupon the same day, in the ensuing month of March.
'nder the ca. sa. the defendant was taken and imprisoned, until discharged by due
process of law. The plaintiff then obtainedleave to issue afl.fa., which was levied
upon the same land previously levied upon. The marshal sold the property under
Nli the writs.
The executions of the firstfi.fa. creditors are entitled to be first satisfied out of the
proceeds of sale.
Each creditor having elected a different remedy, is entitled to a precedence in thal
which he has elected.
Besides, the ca. sa. creditor, by imprisoning the debtor, postponed his lien, because it
may happen, under certain circumstances, that the judgment is forever extintuished. If these do not happen, his lien is not restored as against creditors who
ave obtained a precedence during such suspension.

THIS case was brought up from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Indiana, upon a certificate of
division in opinion between the judges thereof.
The facts in the case are succinctly stated in the opinion of
the court, and also the questions certified.
It was submitted, on the part of the plaintiffs, by Mr. Thomp.
son, upon a printed brief by Mr. Morrison and Mr. _Thfaybr,
and submitted on the part of the defendants, upon a printed
brief, by Mr. 0. H. Smith.
Mr. Thompson, for plaintiffs.
We shall in the outset assuriae, that the following principles
must be carried into an examination of this case, and that without a recognition of which, the questions submittedcannot be

190

SUPREME COURT.
Rockhill et al. v. Hanna ei; al.

intelligently and correctly determined.

It is, perhaps, super-

fluous to say, that these principles are only a reiteration of the
long-established and uniform decisions of this court, viz.
1st. If the State of Indiana has a statute declaring and defining judgment liens on real estate, this court will give full effect
to such statute.
2d. If the supreme judicial tribunal of the State has given
construction to the statute, this court will f:llow that consfriction.
The transcript shows that in the court below there were
three several judgments rendered on the same day, against the
same defendant, but in favor of different plaintiffs, one of which
was in favor of our clients, Rockhill, Smith & Rockhill; that the
marshal sold real estate of the execution defendant, under executions issued-upon all three judgments, oflhring to each set of
plaintiffs a portion of the avails, according to the amount of
their respective judgments; that Rockhill, Smith & Rockhill,
the plaintiffs, rejected such apportionment, claiming the whole
avails of the sale as their legal right, and that*for refusing to
pay over the whole, the plaintiffs instituted this suit against the
marshal and his sureties on their bond.
We state the casu thus briefly to call the special attention of
the court to the two propositions above stated; and we insist
that the questions submitted naturally and necessarily suggest
the inquiry, as a first principle to be ascertained, has the State
of Indiana a law on the subject of judgment liens?
"Judgments in the Circuit and Supreme Courts of this
State shall have the operation of, and shall be liens upon the
real estate of the person or persons against whom such judgments may be rendered, from the day of the rendition thereof."
Revised Statutes of Indiana, 1838, page 306, ยง 22. The revised
Statutes of 1843, page 454, are to the same effect.
We do not insist that the literal reading of the statute above
cited, determines the questions submitted, in our favor; neither
does it determine any thing against us., As to judgments of
the same date, it is altogether silent. It neither in terms asserts
the principle. for which we contend, that pxiority should be accorded to the most vigilant creditor, nor the principle assumed
and acted upon by the marshal, when he undertook to apportion the avails of the sale among the several creditors. They
both rest upon the same foundation- a construction of the
statute.
We proceed to show that the Supreme Court of Indiana has
given the statut6 a construction that, if followed by this court,
must determine the questions submitted, in favor of the plaintiffs. - The case of AMichaels v. Boyd, and others, Indiana Rep.

100, while it recognizes the doctrine that judgments rendered at

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

191

Rockhill et al. v. Hanna et al.

the same time, have, under the statute, no priority of lien over
each other, it yet decides that the creditor whose execution is
first issued and levied, gains priority, as the most vigilant creditor.
If any thing were required to add weight to the opinion, we
might suggest that it was pronounced by Judge Blackford,
whose reputation as a jurist, we suppose,, is not entirely unknown to this court. It will be.also noticed that the decision is
sustained by the cases of Adrams v. Dyer, 8 Johns. 347;
Waterman v. Haskin, 11 Johns. 228, and 1 Howard's Miss.
Rep. 39.
It was argued below, that the decision of the Supreme Court
of Indiana could not be considered a judicial construction of
the local law of Indiana, on the subject of judgment liens. We
suppose the argument will be pressed in this court. We cannot,
however, believe it will find any favor here. The very second
paragraph in Judge Blackford's opinion, cites the statute, by
book and page, and his whole reasoning is in direct reference to
the statute. The statute is the basis, the substratum of the decision.
We trust we shall not be considered guilty of the slightest
disrespect, or as transgressing any rule of propriety, by alluding
to the circumstance that at one important conjuncture of this
case, his Honor Judge McLean allowed his judgment to be
controlled by the same authorities cited by Judge Blackford in
his opinion, which, by the by, was previous to the decision in
Indiana. Judge McLean then ruled, that by our superior vigi
lance in taking out execution, levying, and selling, we had
gained such a priority as entitled us to the whole of the proceeds of the sale. Afterwards, however, and after the second
sale, (the first having been set aside by the court on the application of the attorneys for the other execution plaintiffs,) the
learned judge, on the authority of. the opinion of Chief Justice
Marshall, in Rankin & Schatzell v. Scott, 12 Wheat. 177, had
his former opinion shaken.
We therefore propose to show that the case in 1P Wheat. is
not applicable to the case before the court.
Firstly. The judgments in that case were of different dates,
and the court below had determined a priority in favor of the
younger judgment, to the exclusion of the older one. The Dis.
trict Court of Missouri had decided that a sale by a sheriff, under a second judgment, but first execution, divested the lien of
a first judgment. The decision was properly reversed; but the
learned and able judge, in his opinion, never once alluded to the
case of judgments of the same date. That was a question not
before the court. The question was one between prior and
subsequent judgment liens.

192

SUPREME COURT.
Rockhill et al. v. Hanna et al.

We are aware that the argument of the judge is said to be
against us, but we cannot perceive it to be so. The opinion
suggests an analogy between a statutory lien and a mortgage
lien, as regards their similar binding effect. This we admit
The lien created by a prior judgment, in reference to a subsequent one, is very similar to that of a prior mortgage, duly recorded, in reference to, a subsequent mortgage; and we feel
that we can admit, without endangering our position, that in
both the case of a judgment and a mortgage, the prior lien is
entitled to prior satisfaction. The opiniorn, however, concedes,
that even a prior lien might be displaced by some act of the
party holding it; though it is said "the single circumstance of
not proceeding on it, till a subsequent lien has been obtained
and carried into execution, has never bden considered such an
act." Our case shows not only delay on tae part of our adversaries, but delay for a consideration.
If, however, more is sought to be made of the analogy of the
learned judge on the subject of the two kinds of lien than we
concede, we shall insist, net only that the case itself is not in
point, but that there is a substantial dissimilarity between
them. It was said, we believe, by Lord Mansfield, that there is
nothing so a A to mislead as a simile; and the remark will
certainly hola true in regard to the parallel supposed to exist
between a judgment lien and a mortgage lien. While a judgment lien is general, a mortgage lien is specific. A judgment
creditor acquires no distinct or independent interest in the
estate of his debtor. A mortgagee has such an interest in the
particular thing mortgaged. He may take possession; he may
eject the mortgagor.
It will be noticed that the opinion under review, like that of
Judge Blackford, assumes to give construction to a local statute, on the subject of judgrfient liens. The opinion commences
by quoting the statute of Missouri, as Ju .ge Blackford's does
that of Indiana. The Missouri statute hal, however, received
no judicial construction. This court had, therefore, full authority to construe it. The Indiaiia statute had received a construction which, right or wrong, this court, according to its
own admission, is bound to follow.
Secondly. We consider that, in perfect consistency with the
most exalted estimate of the ability of the eminent Judge who
delivered the opinion in 12 Wheat., we have the right to suppose that, had the Supreme Court of Missouri given her statute
the construction that the District Court did, he would have felt
constrained to follow it, erroneovs as he deemed it to be. This
supposition we feel authorized to cherish, by the uniform decisions of this court on the subject of the adjudication of the

DECETNBER TERMI,

1853.

193

Rockhill et al. v. Hanna et al.

State courts on their local statutes. The authorities on this
subject are so numerous and so clear, and must be so familiar
to this court, that an array of them might be considered uncalled
for. We hope, however, to be excased for referring to a few of
them.
In the case of Shelby v. Guy, 11 Wheat. 367, the court holds
the following language :-" That the statute law of the States
must furnish the rule of decision to this court, as far as they
comport with the Constitution of the United States, in all cases
arising within the respective States, is a position that no one
doubts. Nor is it questionable, that a fixed and received construction of their respective statute laws in their own courts,
makes, in fact, a part of the statute law of the country, however
we may doubt the propliety of that construction."
"In construing local statutes respecting real property, the
courts are governed by the decisions of the State triBunals."
6 Wheat. 119.
"1Wherethe question upon the construction of the statute of
the State, relative to real property, has been settled by any
Judicial decision in the State where the land lies, the Supreme
Court, upon the uniform principle adopted by it, would recognize that decision as a part of the local law." Gardner v.
Collins et al. 2 Pet. 58.
We only add a few quotations from the case of Green v.
Neal, 6 Pet. 291- a case in which this court, in following
a then recent decision of the State court, overruled its former
construction of a local law, on the sole ground that the State
court had changed its construction.

3Tr. Smith, for defendants.
1. Did the plaintiffs obtain a preference by the issue and levy
of the first execution? Certainly not; that execution was a ca.
sa., and the levy was on the body, not the lands.
2. Did the plaintiffs obtain a preference by the first sale of
the lands, and the order. of the court, to appropriate the proceeds to their execution to its amount? Certainly not; because
the sale and the order were set aside by the court, and stood as
if they had not been made.
3. Did the plaintiffs obtain a preference, by the order of the
court, for the issue of the vend. ex. on which the lands were
sold? Certainly not. As the clerk had full power to issue all
the writs, without any order of court, as is the uniform practice,
and all the writs were issued by the clerk on the same day,
placed in the hands of the marshal at the Same time, and the
property advertised and sold under all the writs by the marshal
at the same time.
VOL. XV.

17

194

SUPREME

COURT.

Rockhill et al. v. Hanna ot al.

4. Did the plaintiffs obtain a preference, by the delay of the
other judgment plaintiffs, to issue their writs of vend. ex. on their
levy? Clearly not. See 4 McLean, 554; Rankins v. Scott. 12
Wheaton, 177.
5.. The original general liens being equal, did the issuing and
service of the ca. sa., and imprisonment of Allen by the plaintiffs,
suspend or displace the lien of their judgment, so as to give the
other judgments a priority of lien on his rc al estate? We contend that they did, and rely upon the following authorities:
Tayloe v. Thompson, 5 Peters, 358; Bigalcw v. Cooper, 1 Cowen, 56; Ranson v. Keys, 9 Cowen, 128; Sunderland v. Loder, 5
Wendell, 58.
6. Did the issue of the writs of fieri facias by the other
plaintiffs on their judgments, and their levy on the lands in
controversy, pending the imprisonment of the defendant in execution on the ca. sa., give to the judgments, executions, and
levy a special lien on the lands levied upon, and a preference
for the whole proceeds, to the amount of their judgments? So
we contend, and rely upon the following authorities to sustain
the position: Adrams v. Dyer, 8 Johns. 347; Waterman v.
Haskins, 11 Johns. 228; Burney v. Boyett, 1 Howard, Miss. R.
39; Michaels v. Boyd and others, Smith's. Indiana R. 100.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on a certificate of division of
opinion between the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Indiana. It is an action on the official
bond of the marshal, and the questions certified arise on the following facts: Rockhill & Co., the plaintiffs in this issue,
and Price & Co., and Siter & Co. had each entered up
judgments on the same day, (19th November, 1838,) against
John Allen.
-On 5th of March, 1839, Price and Siter issued ft. fas which
were levied on. the lands of Allen. On tl e 7th of February,
1839, plaintiffs issued a ca. sa., on which the defendant, Allen,
was arrested and imprisoned till the passage of the act of
General Assembly of Indiana, of 13th of January, 184Z, to
abolish impris6nnient for debt; by virtue whereof he was released, on the ground that this act had been adopted by act
of Congress. The plaintiff afterwards, in March, 1844, on
affidavit and proof of the' defendant's dip--harge by force of
the insolvent law, had leave of the court to issue a ft. fa. which
was levied on the same land previously seized in March, 1839,
on the executions issued on the other judgments; and the
marshal was proceeding to sell, when writs of vend. exp. on
these judgments were-put in his hands. A sale was made,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

195

Rockhill et al. v. Hanna et al.

but afterwards set aside by the court. In May, 1844, writs of
vend. exp. on all three of the judgments were put into the hands
of the marshal- on these, the property of Allen was sold,
the money raised being insufficient to pay all the judgments.
Plaintiff (Rockhill) claimed that the money should be applied
first to the satisfaction of his judgment; Price and Siter claimed that it should be applied to satisfy their judgments first.
Whereupon the court certified a division of opinion on the
following questions:
"1st. Whether or not the plaintiffs in this suit are entitled
to more than their distributive share of the proceeds of the sale.
2d. Whether they are not entitled to the whole proceeds, to
the extent of what is justly due on their judgment,
2d. Or whether the executions first levied are not entitled to
the whole proceeds of the sale.
4th. Or whether there can be any preference recognized by
reason of superior diligence, the judgments being of equal dates,
and not impeached."
In the State of Indiana, judgments are liens upon "the
real estate of the persons against whom such judgments may
be rendered, from the day of the rendition thereof." As the
statute provides for no fractions of a day, it follows that all
judgments entered on the same day have equal rights, and one
cannot claim priority over the other. In England, when several
judgments are entered to the same term, (and by fiction of law,
the term consists of but one day,) the judgment creditor, Who
first extends the land by elegit, is thereby entitled to be first
satisfied out of it. The case would be much stronger, too, in
favor of the first elegit, if one of three judgments had levied a
ft. fa. on the goods and chattels of the defendant, the second
taken his body on a ca. sa., and The third laid his elegit
on his land. For each one, having elected a different remedy,
would be entitled to a precedence in that which he has elected.
This principle of the common law has been adopted by the
courts of New York, as is seen in the cases of Adams v. Dyer,
8 Johns. 350, and Waterman v. Haskins, 11 Johns. 228; and
also by the Supreme Court of Indiana, in Marshal v. Boyd and
others, where it is said, the mere delis .-ry of an execution, as
in case of personal property, will not give a priority, but the
execution firet begun to be executed, shall be entitled to
priority.
The application of these principles to the present case would
give the preference to the judgments of Siter and Price, which
were levied on the land five years before the plaintiff's levy on
the same. An execution levied on land, is begun to be executed, and is an election of the remedy by sale of it; and

196

SUPREME COURT.
Rockhill et al. v., Hanna et al.

the mere delay of the sale, if not fraudulent, injures no one and
cannot postpone the rights of the creditor who has first seized
the land and taken it into the custody of the law for the purpose of obtaining satisfaction of his judgment. If he has
obtained a priority over those whose liens are of equal date, by
levying his execution, he is not bound to commence a new race
of diligence with those whose rights are postponed to his ow%..
There may be a different rule as to a levy on personal property,
where it is suffered to remain in the hands of the debtor. But
liens on real estate are matters of record. and notice to all the
world, and have no other limit to their duration than that assigned by the law.
But we do not think it necessary to rest the decision of this
case, merely on the question of diligence,, or to decide whether
this doctrine has been finally established as the law of Indiana.
The plaintiff's lien does not, by the statement of this case,
stand on an equality as to date with that of the other judgments. By electing to take the body of his debtor in execution
he has postponed his lien, because the arrest operated in law as
an extinguishment of his judgment. It is true, if the debtor
should die in prison, or be discharged by act of the law without
consent of the creditor, he may have an acdon on the judgment,
or leave to have other executions against the property of his
creditor, The legal satisfaction of the judgment, which for the
time destroys its lien and postpones his rights to those whose
liens continue, is not a satisfaction of the debt, but, as between
the parties to the judgment, it operates as a satisfaction thereof.
The arrest waives and extinguishes all other remedies on the
goods or lands of the debtor while the imprisonment continues,
and if the debtor be discharged by the consent of the creditor,
the judgment is forever extinguished; and the plaintiff remitted
to such contracts or securities as he has taken as the price of
the discharge. But if the plaintiff be remitted to other remedies by a discharge of his debtor by act of law, or by an escape,
it will not operate to restore his lien on the debtor's, property,
which he has elected to waive or abandon as against creditors
who have obtained a precedence during such suspension. The
-ase of Snead v. McCoul, 12 How. 407, in this court, fully
establishes this doctrine. It is to be found in the common law
as early as the Year Books, and is admitted to be the law in
alm6stT'every State in the Union. See Year Book, 33 Henry
VI. p. 48 f Foster v. Jackson, Hobart, 5,; Barnaby's case, 1
Strange, 653; Vigers v. Aldrich, 4 Barr. 2483; Jaques v.
Withy, 1 T. R. 557; Taylor v. Waters, 5 Maule and Selwyn,
103; Ex parte Knowell, 13 Vesey, jun. 192, &c., &c., &c. And
in New York, Cooper e. Bigelow, 1 Cow.; Ransom v. Keys, 9

DECEMEBER TERM, 1853.

197

Rockhill et al. v. Hanna et al.

Cow. 128; 5 Wend. 58. In Pennsylvania, Sharp v. Speckenyle,
3 Serg. & R. In Massachusetts, Little v. The Bank, 14 Mass.
Rtep. 443.
The insolvent law of Indiana which discharges the person of
the debtor from imprisonment upon his assigning all his property for the benefit of his creditors, provides that his after
acquired property shall be liable to seizure, and also that liens
previously acquired shall not be affected by such adsignment
and discharge; but it does not affect to change the relative priority of lien creditors, as it existed at the time of the discharge,
or to take away from any lien creditor his prior right of satisfaction, which had been vested in him previous to such discharge.
Neither the letter nor spirit of the act will permit a construction
which by a retrospective operation would divest rights vested
before its passage.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the several questions certified from the court below, should be answered as follows: 1st. That plaintiffs in this suit are not entitled to more than
their distributive share of the proceeds of the sale.
2d. That they, are consequently, not entitled to the whole
proceeds to the extent of what is due on their judgment.
3d. The executions of Siter & Co. and of Price & Co. are
entitled to be first satisfied from the proceeds of the sale.
4th. That the decision of the preceding questions, being a
disposition of the whole case, it is Lmnecessary to give any
answer to the fourth question.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Indiana, and on the points or questions on which the
judges -of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion and
which were certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to
the act of Congress in such case made and provided, and was
argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the -opinion
of this court.
1. That the plaintiffs in this suit are not entitled to more
than their distributive share of the proceeds of the sale.
2. That they are consequently, not entithd to the whole
proceeds to the extent of what is claimed on their judgment.
3. The executions of Siter &, Co. and of Price & Co. are
entitled to be first satisfied from the proceeds of the sale.
4. That the decision of the preceding questions being a
disposition of the whole case, it is unnecessary to give any
answer to the fourth question, which is an abstract proposition
17 *

SUPREME COURT.
Kanouse v. Martin.

not necessary to be decided by this court. Whereupon it is
now hereby ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so
certified to the said Circuit Court.

CORNELIUS KANOUSE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, 12. JOHN

M.

MTARTIN.

Where a citizen of New Jersey was sued in a State court in New York, and filed his
petition to remov6 the case into the Circuit Court of the United States, offering a
ond with surety, the amount claimed in tbe'declaration being one thousand dollars, it became the duty of the State court to accept tile surety, and proceed no
further in the cause.
Consequently, it was erroneous to allow the plaintiff to amend the record and reduce
his claim to four hundred and ninety-nine dollars.
The case having gone on to judgment, and been carried by writ of error to the Superior Court, without the petition for removal into the Circuit Court of the United
States, it was the duty of the Superior Court to go behind the technical record, and
inquire whether or not the judgment of the coiirt below was erroneous.
The defendant was not bound to plead to the jurisdiction o' the bourt below; such a
step would have been inconsistent with his right that all proceedings should cease
when his petition for removal was filed.
The Superior Court being the highest court to which the case could be carried, a writ
of error lies to examine its judgment, under the 25th section of the Judiciary Act,

THis case was brought up from the Superior Court of the
city of New York, by a writ of error issued under the 25th sec.
tion of the Judiciary Act.
A motion was made at the last term of this court, by ALIr.
Martin,to dismiss the case, for want of jurisdiction, which ii
reported in 14 Howard, 23.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by 111r. Garr, for the plaintiff in error, and .IIr.
Martin, for the defendant.
The counsel for the plainitiff in error first filed an elaborate
brief, to which the counsel for the defendant replied. Then
there was filed a reply to defendant's argumnent; and then a
counter statement and points by the counsel for the defendant
in error. From all these, the reporter collec':s the views of the
respective counsel, as far as they concerned the points upon
which the judgment of the court rested.
AThr. Garr, for the plaintiff in error.
The questions arising in thi.s case'are the following:
1st. Whether the Court of Common Pleas had jurisdiction
to proceed further in the cause, and to render a judgment

