DECE3BER TERM,

1853.

143

Broome v. The United States.
JAmES

E. BROOME,

ADMINISTRATOR DE DONIS NON OF ARTP

MACON, DECEASED,
STATES.

PLAINTIFF

IN ERROR,

v.

THE

UNITED

The act of Congress, passed on 2d M7areh, 1799, (1 Stat. at Large, 705,) requires the
bond given by a collector of the customs to be approved by the Comptroller of the
Treasury.
But the date of such approval is not conclusive evidence of the commencement of the
period when the bond began to run. On the contrary, it begins to be effective from
the moment when the collector and his sureties part with it in the course of transmission.
Hence, where the surety upon the bond of a collector in Florida, died upon tne 24th
of July, and the approval of the comptroller was not written upon the bond until
the 31st of July, it was properly left to the jury to ascertain the time when the
collector and his sureties parted vith the bond to be sent to Washington; and they
were instructed that before they could find a verdict for the surety, they must be
satisfied from the evidence that the bond remained in the hands of the collector, or
the sureties, until after the 24th of July.
Collectors are often disbursing officers; and they and their sureties are responsible for
the money which a collector receives from his predecessor in office; and also for
money transmitted to him by another collector, upon his representation and requisition that it was necessary to defray the current expenses of his office, and advanced for that purpose.

THIS case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States f r the Northern District of Florida.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the Court.
It was submitted on a printed brief, by Mr. Chiarilton,for the
plaintiff in error, and argued for the United States by ."l!'. Cushing, (Attorney-General.)
Xr'. CharlIon, fbr the plaintiff in error.
1. The first point we make is, that this bond never had a legal
existence, so far as Macon was concerned. That he died before
it was approved by the Comptroller of the Treasury; and having
died before the time had arrived, when vitality was given to it
by such approval, he was not a party to the contract; and his
administrator is in no manner responsible for any default of
Crane, in the discharge of his duties.
This writing obligatory belongs to that class of sealed instruments which, though not strictly escrows, yet are delivered, subject to a condition prescribed either by the parties, or the law.
By the act of Congress of 2d March, 1799, (1st vol. Little &
Brown's edition, 705,) the bond of a collector of customs must
be approved by the comptroller. If not so approved, it never
becomes an official bond; the day of the date, we all know,
is immaterial; and the manual delivery, even in such a case,
coupled with the condition which the law itself annexes, does
not give legal existence or vitality to the instrument. It is the
approval by the Comptroller of the Treasury which breathes

SUPREME

COUBT.

Broome v. The United States.

into it its legal life. It is that which shows the aggregatio
menliumn; it is that which makes it a contract. Commonwealth
v. Kendry, 2 Barr's Rep. 448. Suppose that the comptroller had
refused to approve this instrument, would it then have had any
elliciency? Would it have held the persons signing as sureties,
liable for any default of Crane? Certainly not; for, as to them,
there had been no contract with the gcvernment; they had
oflired to contract, but the offer had been declined. Does not
this*show, conclusively, that the approval of the comptroller is
the act which, for the first time, gives any life to this paper?
But when that life was given to it, Macon was dead; the offer
he had made to become a surety for Crane, had never been
accepted in his lifetime; his death withdrew the offer, and his
administrator is not bound. Chitty on Contracts, 6th Amer.
Ed. p. 9, and note 2, p. 12, citing Pothiei; that it may be retracted at any time before acceptance, p. 13; and that death
retracts it, p. 14, citing Pothier. See, also, p. 15; Macher v.
Frith, 5 Wendell, 112, 13. If a contract was made at all, it
was with Macon, not with his administrator. But can a dead
man make a contract? The authorities cited, refer, it is true,
to unsealed instruments, but. there is the same principle here.
If the paper was actually ddlivered, it was upon the coddition
that it should be approved by the obligee; that it was a condition that the law attached to it, and there was no aggregalio
mentium until such approval; and, in the mean time, death had
the offer.
retracted
We think,
therefore, that his honor, in the court below, committed error in ruling that the apprc.val of the comptroller was
not the act that gave this instrument its legal vitality.
And we think, that even if we are not correct in that view,
still, that he was in error in refusing the instruction asked for
by the counsel for the defendant below; that it was the duty
of the plaintiff below to prove that the said bond was delivered
before the death of Macon.
I will not stop to argue that if this paper was signed by
Macon in the presence of witnesses, but not actually delivered
by him, that it never bound him. I think we will all agree that
if he signed it in the presence of a thousand witnesses, who
attested it as sealed and delivered, yet, that if he purposely kept
possession of it himself, it did not bind him. It was, therefore,
the duty of the plaintiff below to prove a delivery in the lifetime
of Macon. If the fact existed, he could and ought to lave
proved it, as he held the affirmative of the issue. But he did
not offer even lprimd facie evidence. The possession of it by
the comptroller would be evidence of its delivery; but when?
Would it show a delivery in the lifetime of Macon? Would it

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

145

Broome v. The United States.

not rather show that the comptroller did not receive it until the
31st July, 1837, the day on which he approved it; the presumptions of law being that an officer of the government discharges
his duty with promptitude. 7 Howard, 132.
Though there may be evidence, then, that this instrument
was -ivered to bind Crane and Swain, there is none, not even
pr'imdfaciv, that it was ever delivered to bind Macon. Its date
does not afford that proof, for the date of a deed is not any vital
part of it at all. It is equally good without a date, or with an
impossible date, and this shows that a date is no legal part of
it. If we were to hold otherwise, we would fall into the absurdity of being bound by the assertion of a sealed instrument that
it had been made on the 30th of February. Whilst the law
forbids you to contradict, add to, or vary any part of a sealed
instrument by parol evidence, it allows you and requires you
every day to prove the time of delivery, even though a date be
stated, and even though the date of such delivery should directly
contradict the alleged date of the instrument, thus clearly showing that it does not consider the date inserted as any part of the
instrument.
Th-'o is not a tittle of proof that any officer of the government e'er had the possession of this paper until the 31st July,
and then, for the first time, arises the presumption of its delivery;
there is no proof that any of these parties ever parted with the
possession of this paper before the 31st July, 1837, when it
reached the comptroller, possibly from the hands of an agent
of Macon, whose power to deliver would end with the death of
his principal; and it is worthy of remark that, even according
to the very vague and unsatisfactory testimony offered by the
United States in the 6ourt below, as to the time it would take
to transmit by mail, or messenger, from Tallahassee to Washington, that this paper could have been forwarded after the
death of Macon, and reached Washington by the 31st. The
language of the witness being about eight or ten days for transmission by mail, and by individuals, seven or eight days. A
bond may be delivered by the surety to his principal as an escrow. 4 Cranch, 921
His honor, below, refused -to give the instructions, as asked
for, and ruled that the jury must be satisfied that the bond remained in the hands of Crane or the surety until after the death
of Macon, thus virtually throwing the burden of proof upon us
who held the negative, instead of requiring the plaintiff below
to prove the act in pais, viz. the delivery necessary to give vifality to thenstiument. 4 Wheaton's Rep. 77.
2. But if this bond ever was legally delivered in the lifetime
of Macon, the question remains, did his principal, Crane, ever
VOL. XV.

13

SUPREME COURT.
Broome v. United States.

make such default in the discharge of the duties of his office,
as would bind his sureties?
The condition of the bond is, that Crane "shall continue
truly and faithfully to execute and discharge all the duties of
the said office according to law."
What were the duties of his office acccrding to law? The
statute of Congress of 2d March, 1799, prescribes them. 1st vol.
Little & Brown's edition, p. 642. See, also, 2d act of same date,
708, top part of page.
Is there here any authority on the part of government to
authorize Crane to become their financial Lgent, and to authorize him to collect moneys for the government outside of his
official duties; and if not, could his suret.es be bound by such
acts ?
Where, then, was the authority to authorize him to draw
upon, or receive money from Breedlove, the collector at New
Orleans?
Be that as it may, by what authority or law can the United
States make the sureties responsible for the money collected by
Crane from Willis? Is it part of the official duty of a collector
of customs to collect from his predecessor the amount due by
him to government? If there be such law, let it be shown.
His honor, in the court below, virtually concedes this point, but
then he destroys the effect of such concession, by instructing
the jury that, although the money might have been received
outside of his official duty, yet, as the government adopted the
act and charged the amount to him, it was of course conclusive
upon him, and that his sureties could not, with any propriety,
complain, because it appeared from his accounts that, at the
time Crane received the $1,279.92 from Willis, the United
States were indebted to him (Crane) in a rauch larger amount,
and that for some time thereafter, and after debiting his accounts
with that sum, the balance was still against the United States,
and in favor of Crane, and that the defalcation of Crane, for
which his sureties were sought to be held liable, accrued long
after that period, and that it was therefore immaterial to the
sureties, &c.
We respectfully say that there is a mingling up, in this legal
caldron, of very discordant materials, and tL at the reasoning is
neither logical nor conclusive.
We are not going to deny that ig.
a man, without any authority, collects the money belonging to another, that other
may, if 'he pleases, confirm the act and sue the party who has
assumed to act as his agent, for the amount he has thus collected.
And we do not, therefore, dispute the reasoning of his honor
in the court below, when he held, that after the government

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

147

Broome v. United States.

adopted the act of the collection from Willis, and charged it to
Crane, that it was, of course, conclusive upon Crane. What we
object to is, the application of this principle, and the subsequent
reasoning as to the sureties.
The government may, by an artificial and artistical way,
make out the accounts between these parties, so as to obscure
the true issue, but that cannot preclude us. It may make what
rests it pleases in such accounts for such purposes, and it may,
by inserting in the quarter ending the 30th September, an
amount which their own evidence (that is, if there was any evidence at all of that receipt of money) shows was received on
the 1st October. But the only true way of ascertaining whether the sureties are liable in this case, is to make out a general
account of all sums received by Crane in his official capacity,
and which it was his duty so to receive, and then to credit him
with all payments which he properly made; and if the debits
exceed the credits of such legitimate transactions, to that extent
the sureties are responsible. When the judge below tells us,
then, that although Crane had no right to receive this $1,279.92
from Willis, in his capacity as collector, (in other words, though
it was not an act for which his sureties were responsible,) yet,
that as the government owed him at that time, (a fact which,
by the way, is inconsistent with their proof,) and for some time
after, and as all his defalcations actually occurred afterwards,.
that, therefore, his sureties had no right to complain of this
charge being made in the account, and that it was immaterial
to them whether he had or had not received the sum in his official capacity, is, we repeat, not logical reasoning. If the sureties are charged in the general account with $1,279.92, which
ought not to be charged to them, are they not so much the
losers? Does it not deduct from the credits to which they are
entitled, in the general account, running through all the time
for which they were so responsible, just so much, and produce
a corresponding effect upon the balance at the foot of the
account'! If this sum had not been charged against them, would
there not have been exactly so much more due by the government to Crane as collector, for the payments legitimately made
by him, as collector, and to the benefit of which indebtedness
the sureties would be entitled?
It seems difficult to answer these questions negatively. What
possible difference can it make, then, (even if it be so,) that
Crane, after receiving this money, was still the creditor of the
government? It is to the general result, at the close of his
term of office, that we must look, and that general result, after
deducting this illegal debit, must show, so far as the sureties
are concerned, exactly so much more due by the government to

SUPREME COURT.
Broome v. United State.

Crane, as collector, than now appears. How, then, was it im.
material to the sureties? And besides this error of law, the
judge also erred in withdrawing the questions of fact from the
jury, whether this money had ever been received by Crane, by
virtually telling them that it was an immaterial fact in the case,
and that the surety (the only person sued) was not sought to be
charged by it, thus taking away the fact itself from their scrutiny.
He was asked, by the counsel of defendant below, to charge
that the receipt for $1,279.92, given in the 4th quarter of 1837,
is not a sufficient voucher to support the .item of same amount
in the account of third quarter, 1837 of Willis's transaction.
This the judge refused to charge.
We respectfully insist that the government cfficers had no
right to charge this receipt at all, either in the fourth or third
quarter, against Crane, as collector. It was a fact that did not
officially come within their knowledge; to which knowledge
the law confines them, in making out their transcripts for evidence. Crane had never charged himseh' with it, as collector,
but the government officer undertook to discharge the sureties
of Willis for money for which, as far as we know, they were responsible, and to charge the sureties of- Crane, without their
assent, and this upon no other proof than the exhibition of a
receipt purporting to be Crane's, but not proved to be so. We
think that this does not come within the purview of the statute
of 3d March, 1797, and that the transcript was not a sufficient
voucher to support the item, the original receipt being the best
evidence (if evidence at all) of the fact of payment. United
States v. Buford, 3 Peters, 29; Cox and D:ck v. United States,
6 Peters, 202. Nor is the case in 8 Peters, 375, hostile, for there
Orr was entitled to draw on the treasury for money, and the
officers knew that they had paid it. But in our case Crane had
no right to receive the money at all, nor did he authorize the
charge; and the United States had no right to relieve Willis by
charging to Crane and his sureties. See 3 Peters, 29. Hoyt v.
United States. 10 Howard, 132, 133.

Mr. Cashing, for the United States.
First point omitted.
IL The official bond of the collector and inspector, Crane.
and his sureties, Swain and Macon, bears idate 2d June, 1837.
Indorsed July 4th, 1837, by the District Aitorney of the United
States, that the sureties are good and sufficient.
"July 31st, 1837: approved on the above certificate. George
Wolf, comptroller."
Arthur Macon died 24th July, 1837, after the approval of the

DECE3BER TERM, 1853.

149

Broome v. United States.

sureties by the district attorney, but before the indorsement by
the comptroller.
The administrator of A. Macon contended, that the surety
died before delivery of the bond, and therefore that, as to him,
it was not obligatory. To this end various instructions were
moved by the administrator. The rulings of them by the court
are to be seen, p. 48 of the record.
The several instructions on this subject, moved on behalf of
the administrator, need not be here repeated. The charges of
the court were correct; they left to the jury the question of fact
of delivery, under all the circumstances, without any improper
instruction as to the matters of law.
"A deed may be delivered by the party himself that doth
make it, or by any other by his appointment or authority precedent, or assent or agreement subsequent."
"And so, also, a deed may be delivered to the party himself
to whom it is made, or to any other by sufficient authority from
him; or it may be delivered to any stranger, for and in tfie behalf, and to the use of him to whom it is made without authority." Touchstone, chap. 4, p. 57.
if a man makes an obligation to F, and delivers it to B, if F
gets the obligation he shall have action upon it, for it shall be
intended that B took the deed for F, as his servant." 13 Viner,
Faits, (K) plea 7, page 23.
"If a man delivers a writing as an escrow, to be his deed, on
certain conditions to be performed, and afterwards the obligor
or obligee dies, and afterwards the condition is performed, the
deed is good, for there was traditio inchoate in the life of the
parties; sedpostea donsummata existens, by the performance of
the condition, takes its effect by force of the first delivery, without any new delivery." Perryman's Case, 5 Coke, 84-6. S. P.
Graham v. Graham, 1 Vesey, Jr. 272, 274; Froset v. Walch,
Bridgm. 51 from Year Book 27 Hen. VL 7.
"If I deliver an obligation or other writing to a man as my
deed, to deliver unto him to whom it is made when he shall
come to York, it is my deed presently; and if he deliver it to
him before he comes to York, yet I shall not avoid it; and if I
die before he comes to York, and afterwards he cometh to York,
and he delivereth the deed unto him, it is clearly good, and my
deed, and that it cannot be if it were not my deed before my
death." 13 Viner, Faits, (M) plea 7, p. 24; and cites Perkins,
sect. 143.
"And where the d-eeds have a kind of double delivery, there
they shall take effect from and have relation to the time of the
first delivery or not, ut res valeat; for if relation may hurt, and
for some cause make void the deed, (as in some cases it may,)
13*

150

SUPREME COURT.
Broome v. United States.

there it shall not relate. But if relation may help it, as in case
where, afeme sole delivers escrow, and before the second delivery
she has married, or dieth, in this case, if thEre were not a relation
the deed would be void, and therefore in this case it shall relate."
Touchstone, chap. 4, page 72, Relation; Butler & Baker's case,
3 Coke, 35 b, Resolve 1 and 2; Cook's Adm'r v. Hendricks, 4
B. Monroe, 502-3.
1 A, being indebted to his bankers, executed a deed, purporting
to be a mortgage to them, for securing the debt. After executing
it, he delivered it to his attorney, who retained it in his possession till A's bankruptcy, which occurred about a month afterwards. The attorney then delivered it to the mortgagee. Held,
that this was a gobd delivery by A to the raortgagee. Grugeon
v. Gerrard, 4 Younge & C. 119.
If a dXeed is delivered by the grantor to any person in his lifetime to'be delivered to the grantee after his decease, it was a
good delivery upon the happening of the contingency, and related back so as to divest the title of the grantor, by relation
from the just delivery. Foster v. Mansfeld, 3 Metcalf, 412:
O'Kelly and others v. O'Kelly, 8 Metcalf, 436, 439. See Exton
,2.Scott, 6 Sim. 31.

A delivers a deed, as an escrow, to J S to deliver over on
condition performed, before which A becomes non compos mentis; the condition is then performed, and[ the deed delivered
over; it is good, for it shall be A's deed from the first delivery.
Brook's Reading on St. of Lim. p. 150.
The present is not the case of an escrow; and if it were it
would not avail the obligors in the bond; the relation of which
is clearly stated by Chief Justice Parsons, iathe case of Wheelwright v. Wheelwright, 2 Mass. Rep. 447, and repeated by Mr.
J.Sewvall, in Hatch v. Hatch, 9 Mass. Rep. 307, 309, as follows:
" The delivery is an essential requisite to a deed, and the
effect of it is to be from the time when it iE delivered as a deed.
But it is not essential to the valid deliverf of a deed, that the
grantee be present, and that it be made to or accepted by him
personally at the time. A writing delivered to a stranger, for the
use and the benefit of the grantee, to have effect after a certain
event, or the performance of some condition, may be delivered
either as a deed or as an escrow. The distinction, however,
seems almost entirely nominal, when we consider the rules of
decision, which have been resorted to, for the purpose of effectuating the intentions of the grantor or obligor, in some cases of
necessitv. If delivered as an escrow, and not in name as a
deed, it will, nevertheless, be regarded and construed as a deed
from the first delivery, as soon as the event 'happens, or the condition is performed, upon which the effect had been suspended,

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

151

Broome v. United States.

if this construction should be then necessary in furtherance of
the lawful intentions of the parties. See also 3 Coke on Littleton by Day, 36 a note 223. Perkins, sec. 137, 138, 142. Bushel
v. Passmore, 6 Mod. 217; Maynard v. Maynard, 10 Mass. Rep.
486; Bodwell v. Webster, 13 Pickering, 411, 416 ; 4 Cruise, by
Greenleaf, p. 28, note; Elsey v. Metcalf, 1 Denio, 323; Brown
v. Brown, 1 Woodbury & Minot, 325; Doe dem. Gurnons v.
Knight, 8 Dowl. & R. 348; Doe dem. Lloyd v. Bennett, 8 Car.
& P. 124.
"The delivery of a deed may be inferred from circumstances,"
per Mr.Justice Story, Gardiner v. Collins, 3 Mason, 401.
The possession of the deed by the lessor or plaintiff, who offers
it in proof, is primiffacie evidence of its delivery. Under ordinary circumstances, no other evidence of the delivery of a deed
than the possession of it by the person claiming under it, is required." Games v. Stiles, 14 Peters, 327; S.P. Hare v. Horton,
2 Nev. & M. 428; 5 Barnwell & Ad. 715.
"If the original deed remained in existence, proof of the handwriting, added to its being in possession of the grantee, would,
it is presumed, be prinza facie evidence that it was sealed and
delivered. No reason is perceived why such evidence should
not be as satisfactory in the case of a deed as in the case of a
bond." Lessee of Sicard v. Davis, 6 Peters, 137. In that case
the original deed was lost, but the execution and the delivery
theieof were inferred from circumstances.
"All deeds do take effect from, and therefore have relation to,
the time, not of their date, but of their delivery. And this is
always presumed to be the time of their date, unless the contrary do appear." Touchstone, chap. 4, sect. 8, p. 72.
These principles seem to me to be sufficient to warrant the
rulings and charges by the court, on the subject of the delivery
of the bond.
If a bond, with surety required by law of an officer, be signed
and sealed by the parties who are named as obligors to the United
Stateg, and sent by mail, or bvprivate conveyance, to the proper
department, and be sued upon by the United States, such circumstances must be primcd facie evidence of delivery; which
delivery must be presumed to be the time of the date, until the
contrary be made to appear; otherwise the great affairs of this
government, spreading over such vast territories, requiring bond
and security from officers intrusted with the collections or disbursements of public moneys, conld not be administered safely,
unless all the various officers, who are by law required to give
bond with security, to be filed in the proper department, should
bc required to come with their sureties to the seat of government, and execute and deliver in person, in the proper office,

152

SUPREME COURT.
Broome v. United States.

their respective obligations. Such a rule would be highly inconvenient, excessively dilatory, if not, impracticable. Such a
rule could be endured only, in a village, town, or city, or in a
district of country of small extent.
That A. Mlacon signed the bond is admitted. After he signed
and sealed he did not keep it in his possession; it was not
found after his death among his papers; he delivered it to some
person; the purpose for which he signed and sealed the bond
was, that it should be delivered into the proper department of
the government; it expresses that purpos:, on its face, and to
that intent it expresses to have been "sealed and delivered in
the presence of witnesses, - Robert Lord, George G. Holt,"
who;as witnesses, have signed their names. It came to the
possession of the proper department of the Government of the
United States, and was given in evidence by the department.
From all these circumstances the inference is irresistible that,
after A. Macon signed and sealed the bon:l, and caused it to be
attested by the witnesses, he delivered it i:o some person to be
sent to the proper department of the Government of the United
States, the obligee named in the bond. The jury have found
in favor of the United States, without any improper instruction
from the court, and the verdict is conclusive.
III. The question raised for the defendant in the District
Court, now plaintiff in error, as to the sum of $1,279.92 appearing in the account against AIr. Crane, as collector of the customs for the district of St. Mark's, and inspector of the revenue
for the port of Magnolia, is so properly and clearly treated of by
the judge in his charge to the jury, as not to require of me any
thing in addition to what he has said.
As to the sums of $3,00 and $6,500, it appears in evidence
that they were paid to Crane, upon his representation and requisition, to defray the current expenges of his office; and on
this account-the judge ruled that they we:.re legitimate charges
as against his sureties.
This view is suppoited by the provisions
an .vhich require
the collector to pay the expenses of his office our of its revenue,
or to disburse the money received by him :Irom the government
to supply any deficiencies in such revenue. See Act of 1799,
(1 Stat at Large, 707); Act of 1823, (3 Id.723.)
The government advanced money to Crane, under the statute
cited, to defray the expenses of his office.
The conditions of the collector's bond were to execute and
discharge all the duties of his office faithfully. This condition
was broken if the collector made false statements to the Comptroller of the Treasury of the sums necessary to the current expenses of the district whereof he was collector, and false requi-

DECEMBER TIRM, 1853.

15a

Broome v. United States.

sitions upon the Treasury Department, for moneys to pay those
current expenses, it was a malfeasance in office, a breach of
the condition of the collector's bond, for which the surety was
chargeable.
The collector was, by law, the officer to pay the current expenses of the district whereof he was appointed collector, and
he and his surety were properly chargeable with all moneys put
into the hands of the collector for such purposes.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
Ambrose Crane was appointed collector of customs for St.
Mlark's, in Florida, and signed, with his sureties, Swain and
Mlacon, what was meant by them to be an official bond. The
form of the bond is given in the statute. This conforms to it
in every particular. 1 Stat. at Large, 705. Crane, the collector, became, a defaulter. This suit was brought to recover,
the amount of -the defalcation from the administrator of Mlacon, one of the sureties of Crane. The bond is datedon the
2d June, 1837. Two indorsements are upon it. One of them
was made by the District Attorney of the United States .for
Florida.
Office of the United States Attorney, liddle District of
Vlorida, July 4th, 1837. i hereby certify, that Peter H. Swain
and Arthur Macon, Esqrs., who appear to have executed the
within bond as securities, are generally esteemed to be, and in
my opinion undoubtedly are, good for the amount of this bond.
They r~side in Leon county, and I would take either of them,
without hesitation, as security for a private debt of that amount.
The signatures appear CHARLES
to be genuine.
S. SIBLEY, District Attorney.
The other indorsement is as follows:
Comptroller's Office, July 21, 1837. Approved in the above
certificate.
GEORGE WOLFE, Corimptroller.
lacon died on the 24th July, 9even days before the date of
,the comptroller's approval, and twenty-four days after the date
of the district attorney's indorsement. The evidence in the
case shows that, in the year 1837, the mail time between Tallahassee and Washington was from eight to ten days. The distance might have been travelled by an individual in less time,
but not in less than seven or eight days. This testimony was
introduced by the plaintiff to prove that the bond, if it had not
been delivered before the 24th of July, the day of Mlacon's
death, that it must have been in the course of transmission from
the obligors before that day, as tl'e comptroller's approval is

154

SUPREME COURT.
Broome v. United States.

dated the 31st of the month. The act directing bond to be
taken from collectors, with sureties, to be approved by the Comptroller of the Treasury of the United States, will be found in
1 Stat. at Large, 705. It is, that every collector, naval officer,
and surveyor, employed in the collection of the duties upon imports and tonnage shall, within three months after he enters
upon the duties of his office, give bond, with one or more sureties, to be approved by the Comptroller of the Treasury of the
United States, and payable to the United States, with condition for the true and faithful performance of the duties of his
office, according to law. The condition of the bond is, that
whereas the President of the United States hath, pursuant to
law, appointed the said
to the office of
,in
the State of
. Now, therefore, if the said
has truly and faithfully executed and discharged, and shall continue truly and faithfully to execute and diE charge all the duties
of said office, according to law, then the above obligation is to
be void and of none effect, otherwise it shall abide, and remain
in full force and virtue.
In this state of the case, a recovery upon this bond is resisted
by an objection that it never had a legal existence as to Macon,
the intestate of the appellant, because he died before it was approved by the comptroller. It is not denied- or, if it be, the
evidence makes it altogether probable - themt the bond had been
delivered before Macon died. We cannot admit that the date
of the approval can be taken absolutely as; the time when the
bond was accepted, without any relation to the time when it
was delivered. A bond may not be a complete contract until
it has been accepted by the obligee; but if it be delivered to
him to be accepted if he should choose to do so, that is not a
conditional delivery, which will postpone the obligor's undertaking to the time of its acceptance, but an admission that the
bond is then binding upon him, and will 1e so from that time,
if it shall be accepted. When accepted, it is not only binding
from that time forward, but it becomes so upon both from the time
of the delivery. That is the offer which the obligor makes,
when he hands the bond to the obligee, and in that sense the
obligee received it. Such is just the case before us. The act
requires.the collector to give a bond, "with sureties to be approved by the comptroller ;" it must be done in three months
after he has entered upon the duties of his office; it must be
retrospective to that time, and be for the future also. The
comptroller may accept the sureties or reject them. He ma
call at any future time for other sureties, if circumstances shall
occur, or information shall be received, which make it necessary
that the United States should have a more responsible security.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

155

Broome v. United States.

Or he may call, under the direction of the Secretary of the
Treasury, for a new bond. He may decide upon the sufficiency of the sureties before they have made themselves so,
or after they have signed the collector's bond. The first course
is not the usual practice. The bond is commonly sent to the
collector with such sureties as he can get. The comptroller receives it under the law, to be afterwards approved, upon such
information as he has or may procure, concerning the responsibility of the sureties. The time is not limited for the use of his
discretion for that purpose. He knows, and the collector knows,
that the bond ought to be given in three months after the collector has begun to discharge the duties of his office. It is his
duty to give the bond. It is the comptroller's to see that it is
done. It is not necessary that it should be handed to the
comptroller. It may be handed to an agent appointed by the
comptroller to receive it, or it may be put into the possession of
any person to deliver it, or it may be transmitted by mail. If
done in any one of these ways, it is a delivery from the moment that the collector and his sureties part with it. It is from
that moment in the course of transmission, with the intention
that the law may act upon it through the comptroller's agency,
and his subsequent approval is an acceptance with relation to
the time beginning the transmission. The statute does not require the approval to be in writing. It may be so, and may
be done verbally; or it may not be done in either way. Receiving the bond, and retaining it for a considerable time without
objection, will be sufficient evidence of acceptance to complete
the delivery, especially when the exception is taken by the party
who had done all he could to complete it. Postmaster-General
v. Norvell, 1 Gilpin Rep. 106-121. And we add, that the retention of such a bond by the comptroller without objection,
for a longer time than the statute requires it to be given, would
be presumptive evidence of its approval and acceptance. This
presumption of acceptance has been ruled by this court, in the
case of the United States Bank v. Dandridge and others, 12
Wheat. 64. In that case, an objection was taken in the Circuit
Court to the admissibility of evidence to show a presumptive
acceptance of a cashier's bond, because the charter of the bank
required a bond to be given satisfactory to the directors. The
Circuit Court sustained the objection, and ruled that the approval
must be in writing to bind the cashier's sureties. This court
ruled otherwise. Presumptive evidence, then, being admissible
to prove the acceptance of a bond - such as its being in the
possession of the obligee - having been retained without objection, and the obligor continuing to act under it, without having called for a more formal acceptance, it follows that a written

156

SUPREME COURT.
Broome v. United States.

acceptance, dated after a delivery,. as was dlone in this case, is
not to be taken as the time from which the completeness of the
contract is to be computed; but that such an acceptance has a
relation to the time of delivery, making that time the beginning
of its obligation upon the parties to the bond. We remark,
also, that there is no rule -which can be applied to determine
what constitutes the approval of official bonds. Every case
must depend upon the laws directing such an approval. The purpose for which such a bond is required must be looked to. The
character of the office and its duties must be examined. The
time within which such a bond must be given and approved,
and whether it is to be retrospective or for the future only, must
be considered before it can be determined how and when the
approval must be made. The difference, suggested may be
seen by comparing the terms of the statute of 1825, requiring
bonds to be given by postmasters directly to the PostmasterGeneral, and not to the United States, with the phraseology of
the section of the t -t directing bonds to be taken from the col-

lectors to the United States.
The case of Bruce and others v. The State of Maryland, for
the use of Love, in 11 Gill & Johnson, 382, which was supposed
to have a bearing upon the case, will illustrate fully, the differences of which we have spoken.
The 42d article of the Constitution of Maryland, requires.
bonds from the sheriff of that State, with sureties, before they
can be sworn in to act as such. The act of Maryland, carrying that article into operation, (2d vol. Laws of Maryland,
November, 1794,) fixes the time within which sheriffs shall give
bonds, and the manner of taking them is -prescribed. It must
be done in a county court, or before the Chief Justice, or two
associate Justices, &c., but by whomsoever approved, the act
directs that the official doing so, shall immediately transmit
it to the County Court to be recorded. The case came before
the Court of Appeals, from a county zourt, which had' decided
that the bond of the sheriff operated from its date, that bond
having 'been given without the approval in the manner prescribed. The Court of Appeals overrule& the court below,
saying that the bond had been irregularly taken, and that a
sheriff's bond was only obligatory from the time of its approvl.
Under that statute, the question, when a sheriff's bond becaine
operative, could not properly occur, it having made the delivery
and approval of the bond simultaneous, that there might be
that we
no
whi hThe
declared
with
theheconstitution,
a compliance
act which
until
had given bond.
sheriff
should act
have been considering, does not require the comptroller's approval to be in writig. A collector may be permted to dis-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

157

Broome v. United States.

charge the duties of his office, for three nionths, before he gives
a bond, if the Secretary of the Treasury shall think it safe to
be done. But if otherwise, he may require a bond before the
collector' enters upon the duties of the office. The statute
means that the three months allowed for a bond to be given, is
an indulgence to the collector, and not a rule binding upon the
government, when its proper functionary shall determine that a
bond shall be given earlier. We think, too, that the approval
by the comptroller is directory, and not a condition precedent to
give validity to the bond. The doctrine that deeds and bonds
take effect by relation to the time they are delivered, is well
understood. The cases cited by the Attorney-General, in support of it, are sufficient for the occasion. We need not add
to them. It applies to this case. Macon was bound as the
sxrety of Crane, by the delivery of the bond before his death.
The evidence in support of such a delivery, was fairly put to
the jury.
We have compared the charge of the judge, with the instructions which were asked by the counsel of the defendant, upon
the point we have been considering, and we think that it covers
all of them correctly.
Another objection against a recovery upon this bond remains
to be disposed of.
It is said that Crane, the collector, received money belonging
to the United States, out of the line of his duty, which has
been improperly charged to make up the amount of the defalcation, which his sureties are now called upon to pay.
The duties of collectors have been much multiplied by other
acts, since the act of 1799 was passed. Scarcely an act, and
no general act has been passed since, concerning the collection
of duties upon imports and tonnage, without some addition
having been made to the collector's duties. They are suggested
from experience. The collector, too, has always been a disbursing officer for the payment of the expenses of his office,
and may pay them out of any money in hand, whether received
from duties or from remittances to him for that purpose, where
the expenses are not unofficial, have been sanctioned by law,
and have been incurred by the direction of the Secretary of the
Treasury. For such payments, he may credit himself in his
general account against the sums which may have been received,
for duties. He may retain his own salary, or fees and commissions; pay the salaries of inspectors nd other officers attached
to the office; make disbursements for the revenue boats, lighthouse buoys, &c., and apply money collected for duties, to all
expenses lawfully incurred by himself or by his predecessors.
For such as may have been incurred by his predecessor, he may
14
VOL. XV.

SUPRE]M£E

COURT .

Broome v. United Statea..

receive from him any money in his hands, when he is going out
of office, belonging to the United States, and which have been
retained by him for the payment of such expenses.
When so turned over to a successor, he :receives it officially,
to be applied by him to the purposes for which it had been
retained. Himself and his sureties are as much responsible for
the faithful application of it as they are for his fidelity to his
trust, for duties received by himself, or for other sums which
may have been remitted to him by the orde:r of the government.
It has often been the case, and must be so again, as it now is,
that the convenience of the government and the interest of its
citizens, require collection districts to be established, which do
not, and are not expected at first to pay expanses. Remittances
then must be made for such purposes. They are made to the
collector, because it is under his personal supervision that the
work is done, or the goods are furnished for the government, at
the point of his office where the law requires him to reside.
What'we have said, covers all of the remittances which were
made to Crane, by Breedlove, the collector of Mississippi; and
also the payment of $1,279.92 received by him from Willis, his
predecessor, when he was going out of office, and when Crane
was coming in. It appears, from the accounts, that he received
it as collector. It cannot be denied that there was then a debt
due by the government, on account of the expenses of the
office, to which that sum ought to have been applied. Had it
been so, he would have been credited with the sum in his next
quarterly settlement. And if it was not so applied, it cannot
be said that there was fidelity to his official trust in withholding
it and applying other money of the gover;Iment subsequently
collected or received, to the payment of its antecedent debt. In
this instance, there is less reason for not exempting the securities
of Crane from responsibility for the sum received by the collector from his predecessor, because the evidence in the case
shows it was afterwards sanctioned by the government, and that
it might have been applied by the collector to the liquidation
of an official debt, as far as it would go, due by this government
to himself. What has been said, covers every instruction which
the court below was asked to give upon this point. *We do not
think that the judge erred in his general charge upon them to
the jury, or that in making the charge which he did, that
there is any error of which the defendant can complain.
We affirm 'the judgment below, and direct a mandate to
issue accordingly.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.
I dissent from- the judgment of the court in this case.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

159

Broome v. United States.

The certificate of the Comptroller of the Treasury, of his
approval of a bond which it is made his duty to accept on
behalf of the government, is the best evidence of the time of
its delivery, as a valid and operative obligation. If another
date is ssserted by the government, the burden of sustaining it
by clear proof, devolves upon it.
The instruction to the jury by the District Judge, "that the
time of the approval of the bond, at the Treasury Department,
is not to be taken as the time of delivery," was, in my opinion,
too general, and is erroneous.
The District Judge further instructed the jury, that although
the bond "1may not have come to the hands of the officers of
the government" till after the death of one of the obligors, yet
"if they had parted with it for the purpose of sending it, or
having it sent to Washington city, before that time," that would
charge the legal representative of the person who had died.
The delivery of a bond is only complete when it has been
accepted by the obligee, or a third person, "for, and in his
behalf, and.to his use."
The terms I have quoted from the Touchstone, imply a cession of the title to the paper in the act of delivery.
The third person, who thus represents the obligee, is not
subject to the mandate of the obligor, nor amenable to his
control.
The instructions of the District Judge would be satisfied by
any surrender of- the custody of the paper, if for the purpose of
having it sent to Washington city; whether it be to the agent
or servant of the obligors, who would be subject to their urders,
or by its inclosure in a letter, the delivery of which might be
countermanded; in other words, by acts which did not amount
to a surrender of the property or legal right to control the paper.
This, in my opinion, was erroneous. With respect for the opinion
of this court, I enter, therefore, my dissent to the judgment
which affirms these instructions.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Florida, and -vas argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by
this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court, in this
cause, be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with interest, until
paid, at the same rate, per annum, that similar judgments bear
inthe courts of the State of Florida.

