212

SUPREM1E

COURT.

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

ARTEMAS L.

BROOKS, IGxATIUS TYLER, WILLIAM W. WOOD-

ADMINISTRATOR OF WILLIAM WOODWORTH, DEAND ALSO AS GRANTEE, AND JAMES G. WILSON,
APPELLANTS, V. JOHN FISKE AND NICHZLAS
NORCnoSS,
WORTI,

AS

CEASED,

G.

DOING

BUSINESS

UNDER THE

FIRM OF

FISKE & NORcitOSs.

A machine for planing boards and reducing them to an equal thickness throughout
which was patented" by Noreross, decided not to he an infringement of Woodworth's
planing machine, for which a patent was obtained in 182S, reissued in 1845.
The operation of both machines explained

(Mr. ustice Curtis did not sit in this cause, having been of
counsel for the patentee.)
THIS was an appeal from the Circuit C urt of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts, sitting as a court of
equity.
The appellants were the owners of the Woodworth patent
for a planing machine, the documents respe--ting which are set
forth in exteuso, in the report of the case of Wilson v. Rousseau,
4 Howard, 646. They filed a bill against tiae appellees for an
injunction to restrain them from using a certain planing machine, known as the Norteoss machine, upon the ground that it
was an infringement of their letters-patent. Other matters
were brought into the bill, -. hich it is not material here to state.
In their answer, the appellees say, that they have jointly,
under the firm of Fiske & Norcress, and not otherwise, used
one planing machine and no more, since D.cember 25th, 1849,
at their mill in said Lowell, and nowhere else; but they believe,
and therefore aver, that- said machine is not the same in principle and mode of operation as the said 'Woodworth machine,
but is substantially different therefrom, and contains none of
the combinations claimed in the said Woodworth patent, but is
a new and different invention, secured to said Norcross by letters-patent, duly granted and issued to him by the United States
of America, on the twelfth day of February, in the year one
thousand eight hundred and fifty; to which, or a duly certified
copy thereof, they refer as an exhibit, with this their answer, for
the purpose of showing the substantial difference between said
machines.
The answers then admit the filing of tha bill of complaint
charged in this bill to have been filed against them in 1844,*and
the making of the agreemetit recited ii this bill; but they say
that the machine referred to in that agreement, and which they
were then using, was chstructed according to a patent granted
to one Hutchinson, on the 16th July, 1839, but they admit that

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

213

Brooks et al. r. Fiske Ct al.

it embraced the first combination claimed in the Woodworth
amended patent. The answers further contain the following
averments:
"AAnd these defendants, further answering, say that they
believe, and therefore aver, that the said Woodworth patent is
void in part, for want of novelty in the first claim therein, to
wit, for the employment of rotating planes in combination with
rollers or any analogous device to keep the board in place; the
same thing substantially having been before patented in France,
to wit, in 1817 and 1818, by Sir Louis Victor, Josep' Mari
Roguin, and in 1825 by Sir Leonore Thomas de Mai-eville,
and described in the printed publication commonly called Brevets d'Inventions, vol. 23, pages 207 to 212, plates 27 and 28,
and vol. 41, pages 111 to 116, plate 12; and these defendants
refer also to the Hill machine, mentioned in the said patent of
Norcross, as publicly used by Joseph Hill, of Lynn, prior to the
pretended invention of the said combination by the said William Woodworth, deceased."
"1And these defendants further say, that they believe, and
therefore aver, that the said patent issued to William W.
Woodworth, July 8, 1845, is not for the same invention as the
original patent issued to William Woodworth, December 27,
1828, exclusive of the part disclaimed January 2d, 1843, as
alleged in the plaintiffs' bill."
"And these defendants, further answering, say that they are
informed by numerous and able experts, and they verily believe,
and therefore aver, that the machine used by them and patented
by said Norcross, as aforesaid, is not an infringement of the
said *Woodworth patent, nor of any rights of the plaintiffs
under the 'same; and they pray that'the question of infringement may be tried by a jury under the direction of the court."
To this answer a general replication was filed.
Mluch evidence was taken, and in March, 1852, the cause
tame on to be heard upon the bill annexed, general replication,
and the proofs taken therein, before the Judge of the District
Court, Mr. Justice Curtis having been of counsel in the case.
The court adjudged that the machine made and used by the
defendants, and complained of in the said bill, is not an infringement of the right secured to the complainants under and by
virtue of the letters-patent reissued and grhnted to William W.
WVoodworth, administrator, on the eighth day of July, in the
year one thousand eight hundred and forty-five, referred to in
the aid bill, and under and by virtue of the several inesie conveyances recited in the said bill: and thereupon the court doth
order, adjudge, and decrev, that the complainants' said bill be,
and the same hereby iq, dismissed with costs.

214

SUPREMEE COURT.
Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

The complainants appealed to this cort.
It was argued by Mr. Keller and M1r. G. T. Curtis, for the
appellants, and M1Tr. Witing for the appellees.
The reporter finds himself unable to give an intelligible explanation of the arguments of counselt without introducing
engravings, which would be out of place in a law book. In
fact, models were used in the argument lefore the court. He
is compelled, therefore, to omit all the arguments of counsel.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill before us was filed against Fiske and Norcross by
the -assigneeg of Woodworth's patented machine for planing
boards, and of tonguing and grooving them.
It is alleged that a planing machine, patented to Norcross, and
used by the defendants, was 'subtantially in its combination,
and in the result it produced, the same as that assigned to the
complainants, for a district in which the defendant's machine
was used; that the complainant's patent was the elder, and
that the use of Norcross's machine was an infringement of that
invented by William Woodworth.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill on the hearing; and it
is this decree we are called on to revise. The contest in the
court below, could hardly have been more stringent; and much
consideration was obviously bestowed on the case by the judge
who decided it, as appears from his -opinioa, which is laid before
us 'the accuracy of which cinion and the decree founded
on it, we are oalled on to examine. Before, doing so, it is proper
to state, that th machine used by the defendants, does not
tongue and groove boards, and that this part of Woodworth's
machine is not in controversy.
It is insisted that Woodworth's monopoly extends to his
mode of reducing a plank to an equal thickness, and a principal
question is whether the patentee sets up any such claim. It is
provided, by the 6th ection of the act of 1835, that in case of
any -machine th6 inventor shall fully expla in the principle and
the several modes in which he has contemplated the application
of that principle, or character, by which it maybe distinguished
from other inventions: "And shall particularly specify and point
out the part, improvement, and combination, which he claims
as his own invention or discovery." Aa improvement of a
machine is here claimed as having been invented, and the statute requires that such improvement -hall be particularly specified; it is to be done in vriting, and the applicant is to swear
that he believes he is the first inventor of the improvement.
This is required, so that the public may know what they are

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

215

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

prohibited from doing during the existence of the monopoly,
and what they are to have at the end of the term, as a consideration for the grant.
In the words of Lord Campbell, in Hastings v. Brown, 1 Ellis
& Blackburn, 453, "The patentee ought to state distinctly
what it is for which he claims a patent, and describe the limits
of the monopoly;" or, in the language of this court, in Evans
v. Eaton, 7 Wheat. 434. It is for the purpose of warning an
innocent purchaser, or other person, using the machine, of his
infringement, and at the same time, of taking from the inventor
the means of practising upon the credulity or fears of other
persons, by pretending that his invention was different from its
ostensible objects.
Have these requirements been complied with by Woodworth,
as respects a claim for planing boards to an equal thickness?
He obtained a patent for his machine in -1828, which was sur
rendered by his-executor in 1845, forwant of a proper specification, and a second patent issued, and on this reissued patent
the case rests. For its better understanding, we give extracts
from the claim and specification; they are the same that were
relied on by the Circuit Court, and are as follows: "What is
claimed therein as the invention of William Woodworth, deceased, is the employment of rotary planes, substantially such
as herein described, in combination -ith rollers, or any analogous device to prevent the boards from being drawn up by the
planes, when cutting upwards; or from the reduced or planed
to the unplaned surface as described." And afterwards,
"The effect of the pressure rollers in these operations, being
such as to keep the boards, &c., steady, and prevent the cutters
from drawing the boards towards the centre of the cutter wheel,
whilst it -is moved through by machinery. In the planing
operation the tendency of the plane is, to lift the boards directly
up against the rollers; but in the tonguing and grooving the
tendency is to overcome the friction occasioned by the pressure
of the rollers."
This language, so far from claiming the new truth or the
result now contended for as the invention or discovery, does not
describe or even suggest either of them.
The claim, or summing up, however, is not to be taken alone,
but in connection with the specification and drawings; the
whole instrument is to be construed together. But we are to
ook at the others only for the purpose of enabling us correctly
to interpret the claim.
The specification begins by saying, "the following is a full,
clear, and exact description of the method of planing, tonguing,
and grooving plank or boards, invented by William Woodworth,
deceased.

SUPREME COURT.
Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

Here the invention is denominated a method of planing,
.tonguing, and grooving, but not of reducing to an uniform
thickness.
. The specification, then, after describing the mode of preparing
the board, proceeds nus: "When the plank or boards have
been thus. prepared, (on a separate machine,) they may be placed
on or against a suitable carriage, resting on a frame or platform,
.so as to be acted upon by a rotary cutting or planing and reducing wheel, which wheel may be made to revolve either horizontally, or vertically, as may be preferred. The carriage which
sustains the plank or board to be operated upon, maybe moved
forwards by means, of a rack and pinion, by an endless chain,
or band, by geared friction rollers, or by any of-the devices well
known to machinists for advancing a carriage, or materials to
be acted upon in machines for various purposes. The plank or
board is to be moved on towards the outting edges of the cutters, or knives, on the planing cylinder, so that its knives or
cutters, as they revolve, may meet and cu* the plank or board,
in a direction contrary to that in which it is made to advance.
The edges of the cutters are in this method prevented from
coming first into contact with its surface, and are made to cut
upwards from the reduced part of the plank towards said surface; by which means their edges are protected from injury by
gritty matter, .and the board, or plank, is more evenly and better
planed than when moved in the reversed direction."
There is afterwards a reference to, and explanation of, the
drawings, as follows: "In the accompanying drawings, figure 1,
is a perspective representation of the principal operating parts
of the machine, when arranged and ccmbined for planing,
tonguing, and grooving; and when so arranged as to be capable of planing two planks at the same time, the axis of the
planing wheel being placed vertically."
And again, "the rollers f. f. f. which stand vertically, are to be
made to press against the plank and kep it close to the carriage, and thus prevent the action of the cutters from drawing
the plank up from its bed, in cutting from the planed surface
upwards; .they may be borne against it by- means of weights or
springs, in a manner well known to machinists. In a single
horizontal machine, the h6rizontal friction rollers may be geared,
and the pressure rollers placed above them to feed the board,
with or without the carriage, a bed plate being used directly
under the planing cylinder."
And af$erwards. in de-:cribing the process for tonguing and
grooing. he says: " The edges of the plank, as its planed part
passes-.the planing evlihider, are brought Into comtact with the
above described tonguing and grooving wheels, which are so

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

217

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et aI.

placed upon these shafts, as that the tongue and groove shall
be left at- the proper distance from the face of the plank; the
latter being sustained against the planing cylinder by means of
the carriage, or bed plate, or otherwise, so that it cannot deviate,
but must be reduced to a proper thickness and correctly tongued
and grooved."
" To meet the different thickness of the plank or boards, the
bearings of the shaft of the cylinder must be made movable by
screws, or other means, to adjust it to the work; or the carriage
or bed plate may be made, so as to raise the board or plank up
to the planing cylinder."
The means to produce the result, of reducing the board to an
equal thickness in a horizontal machine, are the pressure rollers
f. f. above the plank; operating in connection -ith two feed
rollers ; and the pressure rollers (says the specification) "may be
held down by springs or weighted levers, which it has not been
necessary to show in this drawing, as such are in common use."
These rollers are not claimed as new, but are here admitted to
be old, and to have been in common use when the patent was
granted; nor is any intimation given in the specification or
claim, that the pressure rollers were intended to be used in any
combination for the purpose of reducing a board to an equal
thickness. In the description of the original machine, patented
in 1828, the pressure rollers are not mentioned at all, but they
are st forth as having belonged to the original machine in the
amended specification of 1846; and which last-described machine, experts declare, materially differs from the original as patented in 1828. But as it is not necessary, in this case, to go into
the. allegation of variance set forth in the answer, we will proceed at once to examine the question of infringement. And to
to do this, we must first inquire what "Woodworth's claim to
novelty of combination and invention is. His rotary cutter
wheel is old, his bed plate is old, and his pressure rollers are old
likewise.
The invention relied on is a new combination in the machine
of three elements, to produce the result of planing a plank
against its motion through the machine; and the claim of monopoly is the employment of rotary planes in combination with the
face of a bench, and pressure rollers, to prevent the board from
being drawn up by the planes when cutting upwards, or from
the reduced or planed to the unplaned surface, as described.
As the board advances on the rotary cutters they will strike
it thirty times in a second, and violently tend to lift it into the
knives; and to keep it down to the bench, a strong pressure is
requixed. And in the next place, the cutters being over the horizontal bed and stationary, at a fixed distance from it, and the
VOL. XV.

19

SUPREME

COURT.

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

board pressed down to it so forcibly as to crush out the winds
in.-arped lumber, the machine will of necessity reduce the
board to an equal thickness throughout.
Norcross's planing machine is an improvement of Hill's, which
was in use when Wbodworth invented his in 1828. Hill used
the rotary cutter, which he placed on the underside of the bench
with a section cut through it; the cuters extending through the
bench to the upperside, so far as to take from the board, passing
over the flat surface above, the depth of wood desired. Feed
rollers were employed to forward the board, and a steel spring
(made of the section of a hand-saw) was used to keep the board
steady. The spring pressed a smooth metal surface on the
board, and operated as -a pressure roller does. But then, this
spring was not used for the purpose that "Woodworth used his
pressure rollers; in this, that the, face of the bench above the
cutters, prevented the board from being drawn into them; the
cutters drew it down to the bench, so that this bench is the analogous device to Woodworth's pressure rollers, and is also in
combination with the rotary cutters; hence these -Wo elements
existed, thus combined, when Woodworth got his patent.
Hill's machine had a bar immediately over the cutters, and
covering the cut through the bench, where -the knives revolved;
between this -bar,and the bench, the feed rollers forced the board,
but as the rest bar was stationary, and the cutter wheel also
stationary, and the cutters extended to a fixed distance above
the upper face of the bench, the consequence was, that the board
came through the machine of an unequal -thickness. To overcome this defect, Norcross made the rest bar, (previously stationary,) the cap of a square frame, on the vertical side pieces of
which he fixed the journals of his cutter wheel, the cutters and
rest bar being stationary relatively to each cther, and always the
same distance apart This frame is supported in a stationary
guide frame fastened to the bench, and so made as to allow a
free vertical movement up and down of the rest-bar, -andcutting
cylinder. As the board passes. over the face of the bench, and
under the rest bar, the whole weight of the sliding frame rests
on the board, and as the cutthrs strike it, at a guaged distance
from the bar, and as they move up and d.own with the bar, it
follows that when the board in its rough state is of an unequal
thickness, and the side presented to the cutters is pressed dowm
to the bench, the thicker parst of the board will force up the
movable frame and draw up the rest-bar and cutters above the
bench, equal to the increased thickness of the board, which will
be dressed to the thickness of the space the cutters and rest are
set apart.. Opposit3 to the outer part of the rest F, that section of the bed over which the planed surface of the board passes.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

219

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et aL

is a bar, horizontal to the rest. The two bars form a throat.
piece which serves to hold the board steady as it passes through
the machine.
In view of this state of facts the rule is, that if a combination
has, as here, three different known parts, and the result is proposed to be accomplished by the union of all the parts, arranged
with reference to each other, the use of two of these parts only,
combined with a third, which is substantially different in the
manner of its arrangement and connection with the others, is
not the same combination, and no infringement.
The combination and arrangement, as appears from the testimony of experts, and by a comparison of the models and drawings presented to us, was the only novelty in the invention of
Woodworth. Bentham, in April, 1793, described a rotary cutter and an adjustable bench, which, when adjusted, became fixed,
so that the board would be of a determinate thickness when
passed betveen them.
The Hill machine cut the plank from its planed to its unplaned surface, and had feed rollers and a spring to keep it down
to the bed; while the bed served to prevent the plank from
being drawn into the cutters.
The Baltimore machine (as the one witness who describes it
deposed) reduced the plank to a uniform thickness by passing
it between a fixed bed and a fixed cutter, and kept it down on
the bed by a pressure roller.
The French machine of Roguin patented, and in use as early
as 18I, had.the rotary cutter and bench; they were stationary
relatively to each other, and must have cut the board of an even
thickness had it been pressed so hard to the bed as to force out
the warps; but this seems not to have been the case. The cut
of the planes was with the advance of the board through the
machine, and from the unplaned to the planed surface; and for
this reason the lift of the cutters was very slight. The plank
was kept steady by -arest bar as in Hill's machine.
This is all we deem necessary to describe, in regard to other
machines, to the end of passing judgment on the question of
infringement. As to the question of originality of the Woodworth machine, compared with the other earlier planing machines produced in evidence, and explained by experts; and
secondly, as to the question, whether the original machine, for
which Woodworth obtained his patent in 1828, had, or had not
pressure rollers in connection with other rollers, and which are
now claimed as the main element of the machine repatented in
1845, we forbear from deciding, as we suppose these questions
would be more appropriately left to a jury on issues, where the
witnesses could be heard in open court. Rt is deemed proper to

220

SUPRE*ME COURT.
Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

remark that the fact of procuring a patent Jor a new and useful
machine in 184I, under the assumption of a reissue, which was
not useful as patented in 1828, for want of feed and pressure
rollers, now used as is alleged in defence, would present a question of fraud, committed on the public by the patentee by giving
his reissued patent of 1845, date, as an original discovery, made
.in 1828, and thereby overreaching similar inventions made between 1828 and 1845.
There is one feature in Norcross's machine, and covered by his
patent, which is not claimed to be an infringement. It is this:
as the board passes under the rest bar F, it is weighted down
on the edge of that section of the bed over which the plank first
passes., The rest bar is slightly concave and bears heavily on
the planed end of the plank; the further side of that section of
the bed over which the board last passes, being somewhat depressed, and made lower by a bevelling then the opposite section. By this means, the board is bent., and struck by the
cutters on a concave surface; the grain of the wood being condensed by the bend in the boards, so as to grasp the knots more
firmly, and prevent them from being thro-n out by the cutter
and also to prevent the fibres from eating into the planed surface. Because of the board being bent, th,3 Norcross machine
cannot be used for tonguing and grooving boards, as the edges
of the board must be straight to perform these operations.
From the distance the pressure rollers, in Woodworth's machine, have to be separated so as to give the cylinder room to
rotate, the .board tends to curve upwards, and is cut on a convex
surface, thus loosening the knots, and causing them to be
thrown out, and causing the surface of the planed board to be
eaten in where the wood is cross-grained or coarse, and also
to be uneven, and full of small ridges.
We must, however, disregard this last improvement in Norcross's machine, and also discard the parts of Woodworth's
machine which tongue and groove, and heat his invention as
a single machine for planing boards on ous side only; and, on
this state of the facts, try the question cf infringement. To
infringe, Norcross- must use all the parts of Woodworth's combination. 1. The use of rollers to keep the board firmly to the
bed, and prevent it from being drawn into the cutters and tom
to pieces, and to press out the warps, is the principal claim to
invention. Norcross uses no such pressure rollers, nor can they
be employed in his machine to such purpose.
But it is insisted that the section of the bed plate in Norcross's
machine, over which the unplaned board passes before it reaches
the cutter, is equivalent to the pressure roller of Woodworth;
and that the throat-piece is equivalent, in its operation, to his

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

221

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

stationary roller. 2. That Norcross uses his rest F, as an equivalent to Woodworth's bed plate; that the front section of the
bed being used for the pressure toler, and acting in combination -with the rest F, representing Woodworth's bed plate, and
the cutter operating alike in both machines, it follows that Norcross, in fact, used Woodworth's combination; but disgi'sed it
by turning Woodworth's machine upside down.
The remarks of Judge Sprague, (who decided this cause in
the Circuit Court,) made in answer to the foregoing argument,
are so distinct, and satisfactory to us, that we deem proper that
they should be adopted in this opinion. They are as follows:
" The plaintiff's witnesses, -when asked in what part of the
defendant's machine they find the plaintiff's pressure roller, are
divided in opinion; some of them say that it is the bed, because
that prevents the board from being drawn into the axis of the
cutter, considering that function as the characteristic of the plaintiff's roller. Others find it in what is called the rest, because that
presses the board down upon the bed. But in the Hill machine,
the roller performed the same office of pressing the board down,
and the bed the same office of preventing it being drawn towards
the axis. If either of these sets of witnesses be correct the Hill
machine contained the plaintiff's pressure roller, and as it had
also a bed piece and rotary cutter, it would follow that it had the
plaintiff's combination. Such a construction, therefore, cannot
be maintained. The truth is, that after the Hill machine, it
was only left to Woodworth to make some new arrangement of
the three elements, 'that is, some new mode of combinatio.
Woodworth's invention may be regarded as an improvement
upon Hill's. If Norcross uses this improvement then he infringes, whatever he may add to it, or with whatever" new invention he connects it. If he does not use this improvement he
does not infringe, although he may by other means work out
the same ultimate result."
"What, then, is the improvement which Woodworth made on
the Hill machine? He took the rotating cylinder, which was
in a fixed position below the bed, and placed it in a fixed position above the bed. This is the only change in the arrangement
of the three elements. But it transferred to the pressure roller
a function which had before been performed by the bed. In
Hill's machine the pressure roller onlykept the board down upon
the bed, the latter keeping it from being drawn into the axis
of the cutter. In Woodworth's, the pressure roller performs
both these offices. The effect of this is to plane the board on
the upper side instead of the lower, and the result of that is, that
the board comes out of an uniform thickness, which was not accomplished by Hill. In his machine, the rotary cylinder being

222

SUPREME COURT.
Brooks et al v. Fiske et al.

placed below the bed, with the knife projecting above it, the
edge of the knife was kept at a fixed distance above the upper
surface of the bed, and cut from the lowei side of the board,
through its whole length and breadth, so much of it as was
equal to that distance. Thus, if the edge of the knife was a
quarter of an inch above the bed, and the board be pressed
closely to it, it would take off a quarter of an inch of the under
side of the board through its whole extent, and if it was of an
unequal thickness before, it would remain of an unequal thickness. By placing the cylinder in a fixed position above, and
keeping a certain distance between the edge of the cutter and
the bed, and all of the board above that distance being taken off
by cutting on the upper side, it necessarily comes out of a uniform thickness."
"Now let us look at the Norcross machine. If it has any part
which is equivalent to the pressure roller, it is the rest. Let us,
then, for the sake of clearness, consider that to be a pressure roller.
What then has been done by Norcross ? He has left the arrangement of the three ehments the same as it was in Hill's.
The rotary cylinder is below the bed; the pressure roller still
keeps the board down upon the bed, and the bed keeps it from
being drawn into the axis of the cutter. :Eis improvement is
this: He has made the cutting cylinder movable, vertically,
which it was not before, and has connected it with his rest, that
is, with" the pressure roller, so that when the latter is forced upwards by the increased thickness of the board, it draws the cutter upwards with it, which thereby is made to cut just as much
more from the under side of the board, as the roller is pressed
up by the increased thickness. By this contrivance, the edge of
the cutter is kept in a fixed relation to the rest, or, in other
words, the pressure roller; the space between them being
always the same, whereas in Hill's, and also in Woodworth's,
the edge- of the knife had a fixed relation to the bed, and not to
the pressure roller. The defendant, therefore, has made a new
and independent invention, andplaintiff."
does not use the arrangement,
or mode of combination of the
For the reasons above stated, we are of opinion that the machine of the respondents did not infringe the patent of the complainants, and therefore order that the decre3 of the circuit court
dismissing the bill, be affirmed.
Mr. Justice McLEAN, M. Justice WAYNE, and Mr. Justice

NELSON, dissented.
Mr. Justice McLEAN.
I dissent from the opinion of the court.
their defence on three grounds:

The defendants rest

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

223

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

1. A want of novelty inWoodworth's invention.
2. That in the new patent of Woodworth, issued on the surrender of the old one, to correct the specifications, a new invention is claimed, not contained in the first patent.
3. That the defendant's machine is substantially different from
the plaintiff's.
The Woodworth patent has been a subject of investigation
frequently before the circuit courts of the United States, and
of this court. And although the originality of the invention
has been, I believe, uniformly sustained, sti, the fact of novelty
depends upon proof, and may be disputed by any one against
whor suit is brought. The patent is princ facie evidence of
right in the patentee. A defence which denies the novelty of
the invention, must be proved.
The original patent of Woodworth is dated the 27th of December, 1828. He describes his invention to be an "improvement in the method of planing, tonguing, grooving, and cutting
into mouldings, of either plank, boards, or any other material, and
for reducing the same to an equal width and thickness, and also
for facing and dressing brick, and cutting mouldings, or facing
metallic, mineral, or other substances. He then describes the machinery by which this result is produced. And he says, in the
conclusion, that he does not claim the invention of circular saws,
or cutter wheels, knowing they have long been in use; but he
claims as his invention, the improvement and application of cutter or planing wheels to planing boards, &c., as above stated, &c.
There is no claim, in his written specifications, for pressurd
rollers on both sides of the cutting cylinder, which confine the
board to its place, and necessarily reduced it to an equal thickness; but in the drawings, these rollers appear at the proper
places, and are so arranged as to reduce the boardto'a uniform.
thickness.
The written specifications, including the drawings, constitute a
part of the patent, and must be construed as the claim of the
plaintiff In Ryan v. Goodwin, 3 Sumner, 514, it is said,'if the
court can perceive, on the whole instrument, the exact nature
and extent of the claim niade by the inventor, it is bound to
adopt that interpretation, and to give it full effect. The same
is held in Wyeth v. -Stone, 1 Story, 270, 286; and'in Ames v.
Howard, 1 Sumner, 482, 485, it is said "the drawings are to be
taken in connection with the words, and if, by a comparison of
the words and the drawings, the one would explain the other
sufficiently to enable a sidiful mechanic to perform the work,
the specification is sufficient." Bloxam v. Elsee, 1 Car. & Payne,
558, is to the same effect,
Formerly, patents were construed strictly as giving mono-

224

SUPREM1E COURT.
flruoks et al. v. Fiske et al.

plies; but of late years, in England, inventions are treated differently, and a liberal view is taken in favor of the right. Blanchard v. Sprague, 3 Sumn. 535, 539. This has been the settled
doctrine in this country, and it is founded upon the highest considerations of policy and justice. The opinion, delivered by my
brother Curtis this morning, as the organ of the court, cites the
authorities.
No patent, it is believed, which has ever been granted inthis
country, has been so much litigated as this one. This affords
no unsatisfactory evidence of its value. Very shortly after Woodworth's machine was put in operation, a system of piracy was
commenced, and, although twenty-five years have elapsed, numerous suits are still pending contesting the right. Mr. Justice
Story was one of the first judges whose duties required him
to scrutinize this pate'nt in all its parts, and he sustained it in
all. This was before the specifications were corrected. And
this court also sustained it, in 7 How. 712, where it says, "the
specifications accompanying the application for a patent are
sufficiently full to enable a mechanic with ordinary skill to build
amachine." And this is what the law requires.
In the correct-d specifications the patentee says: "Having
thus fully descri )ed the parts and combinations of parts, and
operation of the machine for planing, tonguing, and grooving
boards or plank, and shown various modes in which the same
may be constructed and made to operate, without changing the
principle or mode of operation of the machine, what is claimed
therein, as the invention of William Woodwvorth, deceased, is
the employment of rotary planes, substantially as herein described, in combination with rollers or any analogous device, to
prevent the boards from- being drawn up by the planes, when
cutting upwards, or from the planed to tile r.nplaned surface, as
described. And also the combination of the rotating planes with
the cutter wheels, for tonguing and grooving, for the purposes
of planing, tonguing, and grooving boards, &c., at one operation, as described."
"And, finally, the combination of either the tonguing or
grooving cutter wheel, for tonguing and grooving boards, &c.,
with the pressure rollers, as described; the e;ect of the pressure
in these operations being such as to keep the boards, &c.,
steady, and prevent the cutters from drawing the boards towards the centre of the cutter wheels, whilst it is moved through
by machinery," &c.
L. Iloguin, of France, in the years 1817 and 1818, invented
a machine for planing, grooving wood, moulding, &c., it is
alleged, substantially on the same principles as Woodworth's
machine.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

225

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

A considerable number of experts were examined, in the Circuit Court, on both sides, and their opinions, as usual in such
cases, were directly in conflict. Such testimony, being written,
cannot lead the court to a satisfactory result, by weighing the
evidence, as might be done by a jury, where the witnesses are
examined in open court. There seems to be no other mode
of arriving at a correct conclusion, than to read what the experts have said, and make up- an opinion on the specifications
of the patents, and on an examination of the models.
The French machine was improved in 1818. The patentee
says: " The parent idea of the first machine could not vary.
This parent idea consisted in subjecting the wood to the action
of a tool of a particular shape, and to impart to this tool a rotary movement; but the choice remained, either of making the
tool stationary, and causing the wood to advance under it with
a slow and progressive motion -one rotary, the other progressive. The first was adopted in the construction of the machine
described in support of the petition for letters-patent; the
second has been adopted in the construction of the improved
raachine."
After describing the structure of the cylinder, he. says.: "It is
borne by a cast-iron carriage, and to the back part of this carriage is attached an iron axletree, bearing two brass pinions,
which gear into a rack, and tend to regulate the movement of
the carriage. The bench moves itself vertically by means of
screws which support it, and tend to raise it or lower it, according to the thickness of the wood to be worked." "Four small,
graduated plates of metal, placed in the interior angles of the
superstructure, act as a regulator to fix this bench in a perfectly
horizontal position." "Two iron squares abut the bench at
both ends." "Experience," he says, "has taught that the weight
of the bench was not sufficient, singly, to prevent the vibration
imparted to it by the machine when in operation, and there
resulted from this vibration waves on the. surface of the planed
board." This was -obviated by the weight of. the carriage.
"The carriage is of cast iron, and weighs about two hundred
and forty-one pounds. It is necessary that the carriage should
be of sufficient weight, so as not i' be raised by the strain of
the tool."
"The back part of the bench carries a cliw, against which
the wood is rested and stopped like a carpenter's bench. At
the other extremity, the wood is stopped by movable dogs,
which pass under a bar through which passes pressure screws."
And he further says: - We have seen, in the description of the
.first machie., that The mece called guide (because it serves
effectually to guide the wood under the tool for grooving and

SUPREME COURT.
Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

moulding) was fixed on the superstructwe of the bench. In
the new machine, this piece is borne by the carriage."
From this description it appears, that the planing cylinder is
carried by an iron frame, and passes over the surface of the
board, which is fastened on a bed by a claw at one end, and
at the other by movable dogs." This bench, on which the board
is placed, is movable vertically, so as to be adjusted by screws to
the thickness of the wood to be worked.
The wood is fastened on this adjustable bed, and the iron
frame which carries the cutting cylinder is of sufficient weight
to keep the cutters on the board, but this machinery cannot reduce the plank-to the same thickness. 'When the bench rises
or falls, the whole surface of the plank rises and falls, and the
cutting knives cannot so operate by pressure on so long a surface as to reduce the inequalities of the board. But this can
be done by prdssure rollers, as in Woodworth's machine, on
each side of the cutting cylinder - one adjustable, so as to admit the unplaned plank; the other fixed, so as to admit the passage of the.plank, when reduced to the required thickness. The
French machine may present a smooth surfice, but the inequalities of the board will not be removed. They will remain in
the same proportion as before the planing operation.
It is argued, that the piece or bar which, in the first machine,
was fastened to the bench, and which, in th3 improved one, was
annexed to the carriage, operated as a pressure roller. If this
were admitted, it would not remove the difficulty, as one pressure roller or bar could answer no. valuable purpose. There
must be two rollers, one adjustable, as above stated, or two
fixed rollers, or bar and an adjustable bed, to reduce, the plank to
an equal thickness. But if L. Roguin be permitted himself to describe the function of this bar, it is, "to guide the wood under the
tool for grooving, tonguing, and moulding." Shall the language
of the inventor be misapplied, and this bar be appropriated to
a use which it would seem he never thought of, to render invalid
Woodworth's patent?
Several of the witnesses on both sides gave their testimony
from the description of L. Roguin's patent, published in a book
called "Brevets d'Inventions;" but, as that book was not published until after Woodworth's invention, its description is evidence only so far as it agrees with the spec.Lcation attached to
the patent of L. Roguin. And it does appear, from the original
specifications, filed by him, a certified copy of which has been
recently procured by A. Perpigna, that there are some material
variances. We must therefore look to the authentic paper and
drawings, as certified, for evidence in regard to the machine.
The organization of this machine does not seem to be on

DECEM1BER TERM,

1853.

227

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

the same principle as Woodworth's, and the result is different.

The other French machine, alleged to be similar to that of
Woodworth's, is De Manneville's. This machine was patented
in France in 182.5 and described in the printed work called
"Brevets d'Inventions." The patent embraced two machines,
having for- (their) object the grooving, planing, and reducing to
a uniform thickness, wood intended for inlaid work; as well as
all sorts of boards, whatsoever may be their dimensions. The
inventor calls them a groover and planer.
The description of this machine by the inventor is confused,
and scarcely intelligible. One of the defendants' witnesses
describes it as having two planes, one of which is called rough,
the other smooth, both of which are kept down to the face of
the board by a tool-bearer, and are moved backward and forward by a crank motion. The rough plane is movable to and
from the board, by being held to it by a spring; the smooth
plane, or finisher, is immovable, principally, from the board,
except to separate the shavings from it. The position of the
board is edgewise, resting on the horizontal rollers-friction
rollers; and it is carried through by a pair of fluted cylinders or
rollers, vertical, and parallel to each other; which rollers press
upon each side of the board, one of which, the back one, is
made to slide in its boxes, held up by a spring, and thus made
to yield to the inequalities of the thickness of the board. Another pair of rollers, holding the same vertical position, called
discharging cylinders, neither of which is yielding,'nor are they
fluted; and to adjust the different thicknesses, the inventor suggests rollers of different diameters, and on an adjustable bed.
Any one can at once see that this is not an organization of
machinery similar to Woodworth's machine. It is not the same
principle, nor is it in substance like it. This remark is made in
regard to the combination claimed by- Woodworth, and not to
all the elements of which that combination is formed. In the
Manneville machine there is no combination of pressure rollers
with rotary cutters, as in Woodworth's; the cutters have a
reciprocating motion instead of a rotary one. Several of thd
elements in both machines are the same, but they are not so
arranged as to act in the same manner or on the same principle.
Some of the witnesses for the defendants think, that from
the two French patents, the Woodworth machine might be
constructed without invention; but these machines must be
considered singly, and not together. In the defence it is alleged,
in reference to Woodworth's machine, that "the same thing
substantially was patented in France, in 1817 and 1818, by L,

228

SUPREME COURT.
Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

Roguin, and in 1825, by Manneville. The defence, in this
respect, is not sustained, as neither of thEl patents are substantially the same as Woodworth's.
The next point for consideration is, whEther, in the amended
specifications of Woodworth's patent, in 1845, a new invention
was claimed, not embraced in the original patent.
It must be admitted, that the subject;-matter of the new
patent is the same. The patent was surrendered, to correct
defective specifications, which did not result from any fraudulent intent. This right was secured to the patentee by the
thirteenth section of the patent act of 18'36; and, on an application to the commissioner of patents, be, finding there had
been no fraud, a new patent was issued for the same invention, more accurately described, as the law authorized.
In the case of Woodvorth v. Stone 3 Story's Rep. 749, and
Allen v. Blunt, Tb. 742, it was held, that the action of the commissioner, in accepting a surrender of a patent and issuing a
new one, concluded the parties, unless fraud be shown. And
in Stimpson v. West Chester Railroad, 4 Howard, 380, this court
say, "In whatever manner the mistake or inadvertence may
have occurred is immaterial. The action of the government in
renewing the patent, must be considered as closing this point,
and as leaving open for inquiry, before the court and jury, the
question of fraud only."
The corrected specifications of the new patent, on a surrender, would necessarily be different from those that were defective. And it is the duty of the commissioner not to permit a
new invention to be claimed under the pietence of correcting
defective specifications.
Some things are omitted in the new patent which were
claimed in the old one. But the principal objection on this
ground seems to be, that pressure rollers -were claimed in the
new patent, and were not claimed in the old one. This is a
mistake, as has already been shown. These rollers were represented in the drawings, and in that way were more accurately described than they could have been by a written specification. These drawings are a part of the patent. It does
not appear that the corrected specifications embrace a new
invention,'not included in the original patent.
The third and last point is, whether the defendants' machine
is an infringement of the plaintiffs'.
In the opinion of th Circuif Court in this case, it is said,
" The defect in the Hill machine was, that it did not' reduce
the board to a uniform thickness. This desideratum the plaintiff has obtained by an improvement, for which he was entitled
to a patent. The- detendant has accomplished the same pur-

DECEM3BER TERM, 1853.

229

Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

pose without using the improvement of the plaintiff, but merely
by a ~n~w invention of his own, and therefore does not infringe."
From these remarks it would seem, that the Circuit Court
considered Woodworth as entitled to a patent, "for reducing
boards to a uniform- thickness," but that his patent does not
cover it. In this the Circuit Court was mistaken, as I shall
endeavor to show, in fact and in-law.
It is not controverted, that Woodworth's, combination of
machinery does reduce boards to an equal thickness. He did
not and could not claim a patent for reducing a board to a uniform thickless; for an exclusive right could not be given for
such a result. For centuries, boards have been reduced to a
uniform thickness by hand planes, and, perhaps, by other means.
What, under the patent law, could Woodworth claim? He
had a right to claim, as he did claim, a combination of machinery which would produce such a result. Was it necessary, in
the summing up of his claim, which is done to distinguish what
he has invented from parts of his machine *,hich he has not
invented, that he should claim the combination of his machine
for the purpose of reducing boards to a uniform thickness ? This
would have limited his invention to that purpose, when it was
applicable, and was intended to be applied, to that and many
other purposes.
By the sixth section of the patent law of 1836, an inventor is
required to describe his invention in every important particular,
in his application for a patent, so as to enable those skilled in
the art or science to which it appertains, to make, construct,
compound, and.use the same; and if the invention be a machine,
he is required to state "the several modes in which he has contemplated the application of the principle or character by which
it may be distinguished from other inventions; and "shall particularly specify and point out the part, improvement, or combination, which he claims as his own invention and discovery."
He is required to accompany the whole with a drawing, and, if
a machine, a model, &c.
Is it not clear that Woodworth has explained the principle,
and the several modes in which le has contemplated the application of the principle or character of his machine, by which, in
the language of the act, it may be distinguished from other inventions? The plank is planed, tongued, and grooyed, by an
organization of machinery unknown before. This is all, in the
summing up, which the act requires.
It is objected that Woodworth does not include, in his claim,
that of reducing a plank to a uniform thickness. The invention
consists in the means through which this is done. A result, or
VOL. xv.

20

230

SUPREME COURT.
Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

an effect, is not the invention. This appears to have been the
turning point in the opinion of the Circuit Cor.n
But Woodworth has, in the specifications of his machinery
stated that the board is necessarily reduced to a uniform thickness. He says "The edges of the plank, as its planed part
passes the planing cylinder, are brought into contact with the
above-described tonguing and grooving wheels, which are so
laced upon their shafts, as that the tongue and groove -hall be
left at the proper distance from the face of the plank, the latter
being sustained against the planing cylinder by means of the
carriage, or bed plate, or otherwise, so that it cannot deviate,
but must be reduced to a proper thic]me-s, and correctly
tongued and grooved." Here Woodworth describes the combined operation of planing, tonguing, and grooving; and by
which the plank is. reduced to a proper thickness, that is, the
required thickness; and correctly tongued and grooved," &c.
This is the effect of his machine in planing boards clearly,
described.
He says, the board is kept against the planing cutters by
means of the carriage, or bed plate, or otherwise. The pressure rollers are claimed in his specification written, and also in
his drawings, which show how they are to be applied. He -also
says, " Fig. 7 represents the same machine with the axes of the
planing cylinder placed horizontally, and intended to 6 perate
on one plank only at the same time. A A is the frame; B B
the heads of the planing cylinder; C C the knives or cutters
attached to said heads, to meet the different thicknesses of the
plank; the bearings of the shaft of the cylinder may be made
movable by screws or other means, to adjust it to the work, or
the carriage of the I.I plate may be made so as to raise the
plank up to the planing cylinder."
The patent of the defendants was issued February 12th, 1850.
It is alleged to be an improvemert upon ilU's machine. That
machine, from -the description, consisted of a planing cylinder,
a platform bench, -ith an aperture in it, through which the
planing cutters operated, so as to cut away any required thickness from the surface of the plank subjected to its action; the
relation of the cylinder to the bench was permanent; a spring
plate bore upon the plank nearly opposite to the cylinder, and
forced it towards the cylinder and bench; f(eding rollers carried
the plank forward, the same as in Woodworth's machine.
By this operation a stratum of equal thickness was cut from
the plank, leaving a smooth surface, but not removing the inequalities of the board. The combination of machinery was
different in principle from Woodworth's, and, consequently, the
result was different.

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

231

Brooks et al. v. ]Fiske et al.

Noreross says, his invention is an improvement of Hill's
machine, and. "renders it capable of reducing or planing a
board to an equal thickness throughout its length." He says,
"Hill's machine was capable of planing or reducing a board
on one side, or removing from such side a stratum or layer of
wood of an equal thickness," but this did not make the board
of uniform thickness.
The amended machine contains rotatory planes which cut,
from the planed to the unplaned surface of the plank; an
adjustable bar and rest, is at a fixed distance from the cutting
action of the planes; the rotating planes and this rest bar. were
so connected together in a separate frame as to move vertically
-with the frame, and is borne downwards by their weight; two
bars, one before and the other behind the rotating planes, and
on the face of the. plank cut by them, -to cause its opposite
face, in its progress through the machine, of whatever thickness
and however warped, to pass in contact with the rest bar F.
One of the said bars is termed a platform B, and the distance
between this and the rest bar F, is variable arid self-adjusting
to the varying thickness of'the plank before it is planed, and
the other, called a horizontal bar or throat-piece G, placed at
the same distance from the rest bar F, as the line of the cutting
actiofi of the rotating planes, to act on the face of the plank
which has been planed, and ensure the contact of the opposite
and unplaned face with the rest bar F.
Norcross says, what I claim as my invention is, the combination of the rotatory planing cylinder E, and the rest F, with mechanism, by which the two can be freely moved up or down,
simultaneously and independently of the bed, or platform B B,
or any analogous device, substantially in the manner and for
the purpose of reducing a board to an equal thickness throughout its length, all as hereinbefore specified."
"I also claim the above-described 'improvement of making
the underside of the rest concave, in combination with so extending the part B, under the rest F, and applying it to the concave part thereof, as to caue the board, as it passes across the
rest, to be bent, and presented with a concave surface to the
operation of the rotatory cutter planing cylinder, substantially
as specified."
This organization of machinery seems to be the same in principle as that of Woodworth's, and produces the same result. If
the concave surface of the board,,on -which the cutters operate,
be an Improvement, or any other slight change has bcen made,
which may be an improvement on Woodworth's rachine, that
would give the defendants no right to use it without a license.
The difference between-the machines appears to be this. The

232

SUPREME COURT.
Brooks et al. v. Fiske et al.

rotating planes and the plate or bed of Woodworth's are stationary in the main frame, and the roller or analogous device on
that face of the plank to be planed, is movable toward and from
the plate or bed to suit the varying thickness of the plank.
While in the Norcross machine, two bars. are substituted for the
pressure rollers; and instead of mak-ing the one which acts on
the plank before it is planed, movable, to suit the varying thickness of the plank, it is fixed permanently in the main Irameand the rotating planes and the plate or bed, termed by him the
rest bar, F, are connected together in a separate frame, and together move up and down, to adapt themselves to the inequalities in the thickness of the plank.
Norcross has made that part of his machinery movable, which
in the Woodworth machine is fixed; and that which is movable
in the Woodworth machine, he has made permanent. These
changes, and the reversal of Woodworth's mnachine, is the difference in their structure. A cast of the eye on the models, will
satisfy a machinist of the truth of this representation.
Whether the cutting cylinder operates above or below the
bench on which the plank is laid, can be of no importance; nor
is the difference material whether a pressure roller varies to suit
the variable thickness of the plank, or the planing cylinder, connected permanently with the bench, shall be elevated or depressed to accomplish the same object. These devices, though different in form, are the game in principle, and produce the same
effect.
I think there is an infringement, and that the decree of the
Circuit Court should be reversed.
Order
This cause came on to be heard on he transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Mlassachusefts, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed
by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in this
cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

