DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

179

Bevins et al. v. Ramsey et al.

his death, and the right of the United States then extinguished.
The facts were all known at that time, and the executor of
Archer appreciated accurately the legal value of the facts, for
the bill avers and the answer admits that he uniformly repelled
the claim of the United States, and denied its validity. It is
clear, therefore, if Bispham had placed this money to abide the
issue of these obligations, the right to reclaim it arose at the
death of Archer. Calvin v. Buckle, 8 M. & W. 680; Maury
v. Mason, 8 Port. 211.
Our views upon this statute correspond with those expressed
by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. Hamilton v. IHamilton, 18 Penn. State R. 20; Porter v. School Directors, Ibid. 144.
Upon the whole case, we conclude there is no error in the
record, and that the decree should be affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the
record, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration whereof, it is'now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circu't Court,
in this cause, be, and the same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

WILLIAM C. BEVINS AND OLTVER P. EARLE, SURVIVING PARTNERS OF THE FIRM OF BEVINS, EARLE & Co., ASSIGNEES,
&C.) WHO SUE FOR THE USE OF OLIVER P. EARLE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. WILLIAM B. A. RAMSEY, ROBERT CRAIGHEAD, JAMES P. N. CRAIGHEAD, THOMAS W. HUMES, AND
JAMES MCMILLAN, ADMINISTRATOR OF ANDREW MCMILLAN,
DECEASED.

Where a clerk of a court was sued upon his official bond, and the breach alleged was,
that he had surrendered certain goods without taking a bond with good and suffi.

cient securities, and the plea was, that the bond which had been taken was assigned
to the plaintiffs, who had brought suit, and received large sums of money in discharge of the bond, - this plea was sufficient, and a demurrer to it was properly
overruled.

THIs case was brought up, by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of East Tennessee.
Ramsey was clerk of the Chancery Court, held at Knoxville,
Tennessee. Bevins and Earle were citizens, the former of
Arkansas, and the latter of South Carolina.

180

SUPREME

COURT.

Bevins et al. v. Ramsey et al.

The action was one of debt, upon the official bond of Ramsey, and his securities.
The declaration states that Ramsey was appointed clerk and
master of the Chancery Court, in the declaration mentioned;
and, on the 11th April, 1836, delivered to Newton Cannon,
Governor of Tennessee, his bond, with the other defendants, his
sureties, in the penalty of $10,000, conditioned to discharge the
duties of the office of clerk and master, according to law.
That Ramsey failed to discharge the duties of that office:
1. That upon the dissolution of an injunction, awarded on a
bill attaching certain property brought by the plaintiffs against
Chase & Bowen, which property had been put in the hands of
Ramsey, clerk and master, as receiver, he was ordered to surrender the property attached on Chase & Bowen, giving bond
aiud security to abide the decree; that it was the duty of Ramsey, as clerk and master, to take that bond; that he did not take
their bond with sufficient securities, but, dn the contrary, took
the bond of Chase, with Thornburg and others, as sureties, who
were then wholly insufficient for the performance of the judgment and decree; that plaintiffs finally got a decree for $6,303.64,
which is still unpaid.
2. That in the suit of Bevins, Earle, and Brown v. Chase &
Bowen, the property attached in, which had been placed in the
hands of Ramsey, clerk and master of the court, as receiver, he
was ordered to surrender the property attached to Chase &
Bowen, on their giving bond and security to abide by and perform the decree; and under that order it was the duty of Ramsey, as clerk and master, before surrendering the goods, to take
a bond from Chase & Bowen, with sufficient security conditioned
according to the order. But Ramsey did not take such bond
with sufficient security, but wholly neglected and failed so to
do, and gave up the property without so doing. And plaintiffs
afterwards obtained a decree against Chase & Bowen, for
$6,303.64, which is still unpaid by said Chase & Bowen.
3. That in the suit, and under the order above prescribed, it
was the duty of Ramsey, as clerk and master, to take such bond
as the order directed to be taken before surrendering the property; yet Ramsey did not take bond and security from Chase
& Bowen to abide and perform the decree, but surrendered the
property without taking bond and security; and a decree was
afterwards rendered for $6,303.64 in favor of the plaintiffs.
4. That in the suit, and under the order aforesaid, it was the
duty of Ramsey, as clerk and master, to take from Chase &
Bowen, bond and sufficient security to abide and perform the
decree; yet he wholly failed and neglected to take bond and
sufficient security, but surrendered the property held by him as

DECEMfBER

TERM, 1853.

Be'ins et al. v. Ramsey et al.

receiver, without taking bond and security as required by' the
order; and afterwards a decree for $6,303.64 was in that suit
rendered in favor of plaintiffs, which Chase & Bowen have failed
to perform, and which yet remains due.
By reason of the premises, the bond of Ramsey, as clerk and
master, became forfeited, and was assigned by the successor of
the obligee, Governor of Tennessee, by his written assignment,
on a copy of the bond, to plaintiffs, on the 22d July, 1847.
The defendants appeared and pleaded:
1st. That they had performed the condition of the bond.
2d. That it was no part of the right or duty of Ramsey, as
clerk and master, to take the bond of Chase & Bowen with
good and sufficienf security or otherwise, but it was the duty of
the receiver.
On these pleas there is an issue of fact.
3d. That the filing the bill of the plaintiffs against Chase &
Bowen, the attachment awarded, and the appointing the receiver, the order requiring the bond and the final decree, were
null and void for want of jurisdiction in the court of chancery,
the remedy being properly at law.
4th. That after the order on the declaration mentioned, and
before the surrender of the property, Ramsey did take a bond
conditioned as required by the order, which bond was, on application of Bevins, Earle & Co., by the court, ordered to be surrendered, and was accepted; and under it they have recovered
$2,000.
5th. That the defendants do not owe the debt.
7th. That at the date of the bond, the obligors and obligees
were citizens of Tennessee, and the obligors and the obligee
and his successors, have all continued to be citizens of Tennessee.
8th. That at the time of the cause of action the plaintiffs
and defendants were citizens of -Tennessee.
To these pleas the plaintiffs demurred.
To the 6th plea: that before surrendering the property, Ramsey took bond conditioned as required by the order; and in so
doing, and judging of the sufficiency of the sureties, lie acted
bond fide in the exercise of his best judgment.
The plaintiffs replied, that Ramsey did not take bond from
Chase & Bowen with sufficient surety, as was his duty.
To this replication the defendants demurred.
The court overruled the demurrers of the plaintiffs, and sustained the demurrer of the defendants to the replication to the
sixth plea and to the declaration, and gave judgment for the
defendant on the whole record.
VOL. XV.

16

SUPREME

COURT.

Bevins et al. v. Ramsey ei al.

In this state of things, the record was brought up to this
court.
It was argued -by Mr. Davis, for the plaintifTs in error, and
Mr. Lee, for the defendants, with whom was Mr. Oullom.
!Mr. Davis,for the plaintiffs in error, contended that, under
the declaration, they could recover on one of the two following
'propositions:
1. That the goods attached are alleged to be in the hands of
the defendant Ramsey, in his character (of clerk and master,
according to the legal effect of the declaration; and that, therefore it was his duty to take good bond and surety before surrendering the goods. Caruthers and Nicholson, St. Tenn. 224,
162, 155; (Acts 1797, c. 22, ยง 3; 1794, c. 1; 1833, c. 47);
Waters v. Casrroll, 9 Yerger, 102,108,110; McNutt v. Livingston,
7 Smedes & Marsh. 641.
2. That if the legal effect of the declaration be to charge that
the goods were in the hands of Ramsey as receiver, and not as
clerk and master, then that it was his duty, as clerk and master,
to approve the bond on which the goods were ordered to be surrendered by him as receiver; and that, having approved a bad
bond, in his capacity of clerk and master, he is liable in that
character for the consequences of such approval - the loss following from the surrender of the goods by him as receiver, on
the faith of the bond improperly approved by him as clerk and
master.
This may be maintained on the following grounds:
(a.) The declaration distinctly avers that, in point of fact, it
was the duty of Ramsey, as clerk and mnaster, under such an
order as that for the surrender of the goods, on bond to be given,
to take the bond; and this "allegation has been traversed, and an
issue of fact is now pending on it; and under this it %illbe
competent for the plaintiff to show such to have been his duty:
1st, by adducing .the rules of court; or, 2d, showing the practice and course of the court in like cases. United States v.
McDaniel, 7 Pet. 1; United States v. Fillebrown, 7 Id. 28;
Duncan's Heirs v. United States, 7. Id. 435; United States v.
Ar.edondo, 6 Id. 714; Minor v. Mechanics Bank, Alex. 1 Id.
,46; Williams v. United States, 1 How. 290.
(b.) It is cleaxly a part of the duty of, the master to approve
such bonds. The bond is an official on(, to be filed'in court,
not kept by the receiver. The receiver is -Q act'only on such a
bond as the proper officer of the court she ll have approved. It
is the duty of the receiver not -to surrender the property till such
a bond, properly approved, be filed. The order does nQt give

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

Bevins et al. v. Ramsey et al.

the receiver the right, nor throw on them the duty of approving
the bond. He is ordered to surrender the goods when such a
bond is given, but is silent as to the person by whom it is to be
taken and approved. That person is, plainly, from the nature
of his office, the clerk and master. See books above cited, and
1 Smith, Ch.Pr. 9.
If it be supposed that the declaration contemplates only one
of those grounds of liability; then,
3. The question, whether Ramsey be charged in his capacity
of clerk and master, oras receiver, cannot, as is admitted by the
brief of the defendants in error, be now the subject of inquiry
on these demurrers; since "this supposed error in pleading is
brought to an issue of fact, which is still undisposed of."
We are, therefore, entitled to charge Ramsey, on this declaration and at this stage, with the duty of taking or approving the
bond as clerk and master.
4. We submit, that the bond of the clerk and master is assignable, under the Tennessee statutes. Caruthers and Nicholson, 162, 155; Acts 1794, c. 1; and 1797, c. 22, ยง 3.
not a copy of the bond, but
5. That the assignment here
the bond itself; the assignmeu. happening to be indorsed or
written on a copy of the bond.
6. The demurrer to the 3d plea must be sustained. The
plea attempts to inquire collaterally into the regularity of the
proceedings in the injunction suit. It does not raise the question of the jurisdiction of the tribunal; but whether the relief
sought were properlyto be had at law or in equity. To call that
a question of jurisdiction, in order to open the case to collateral
inquiry, is to misuse legal language.
7. The plea of nil debet is clearly had in reply to breaches
assigned on a bond with collateral condition. Sneed v. Wister, 8 Wheat. 690.
10. The fourth plea contains no answer to the declaration in
substance; and what it does contain is badly pleaded.
The gravamen of the action is the neglect to take any bond,
or if any were taken, the taking of insufficient surety.
This plea avers the taking of a bond which it sets forth, and
so far it is good. But it does not aver the sureties to have
been go9d or sufficient; and, therefore, it does not in that meet
the declaration.
That the plaintiffs sued on the bond, does not show it to have
been sufficient, but is, perhaps, the best way of proving its insufficiency. If it were good-for part, and not all of the decree,
the plaintiffs were entitled to have it, and get what they could,
and perhaps bound so to do; but then they were at liberty to
sue the officer, likewise, for his neglect in approving bad sure-

SUPREME COURT.
Bevins et al. v. Ramsey et al.

ties, or surrendering the property without taking good sureties.
It was no. case of election, where the suing o4 the bond concluded the plaintiffs' right to indemnity fox its insufficiency.
11. If the replication to the sixth plea be perhaps not very
formal, it is as good as the plea; and the plea itself is clearly
bad on general demurrer.
The plea avers, 1st, that, taking of bond with sureties, according to the order; and, 2d, that in taking bond, Ramsey acted
band fide, and in the exercise of his best judgment. But,
1st. To meet the declaration, the defendant was obliged to
aver the taking of bond as a performance of one of the duties
provided for in the bond on which the suit was brought; but the
bon& should have been .so stated or pleaded as to enable the
court to judge of its conformity to the order of law. The plea
does not state to whom it was payable, to whom it was delivered, what were its terms; its date, its condition, who were
the sureties, nor who were parties to it.
2d. Nor does the plea aver that the sureties were sufficient at
the date of the bond; nor that they were believed to be sufficient by Ramsey; nor that he made them swear as to their
sufficiency. It merely avers, -that he acted bond fide, and to the
best of his judgment; but does not say what he did, nor on
what he judged, nor that he took any means to inform his judgment. On that plea, the court must take Iis ideas of bona fides
and his judgment as conrlusive. Minor v. Mechanics Bank,
Alexandria, 1 Pet 46, 49, 71, 66; 4 Taunt. R. 34; Wise v.
Wise, 2 Levinz, 152; Steph. P1. 406; 1 Chitty, Pl. 567, 573;
1 B. & P. 638; Co. Lit. 303, b.; Finley v. Bochin, 3 G. & J.
42, 51; Hughes v. Sellers, 5 H. & J. 432; Townsend v. Jemison, 7 How. 706,722; 4 G.& J.395,401; McNutt v. Livingston,
7 Smedes & Marsh. 641; McAlister vi. Scrice, 7 Yerger, 277,
278.
But the replication to the sixth plea may well be considered
as a traverse of- one bf the two matfrial allegations of the plea;
for the plea alleged taking bond, without stating the parties;
and the replication denies the taking bon Lwith the proper parties, as well as the taking of sufficient surety.
The counsel for the defendant in error contended, that there
is no rule of pleading better settled than that a demurrer
reaches the first error -in pleading; -and, if"
it were universal in
its operation, it might be contended for ;ucceisfully, that this
declaration shows on its face that the-defendant Ramsey acted
as receiver in the chancery case set forth in the declaration, and
as such was not liable, in'his official character of clerk, but in
his individual capacity, as-commissioner of the court. See 9

DECEMBER TERM, 1853
Bevins et al. v. Ramsey et al.

Yerger, 102. There are, however, some exceptions to this rule;
and amongst others is embraced the case where a supposed
error in the pleading is brought to an issue of fact, which is still
undetermined; we are therefore. precluded, perhaps, from the
argument of the point just suggested in this stage of the proceedings. There are two objections to the declaration, which
are brought up by the demurrers, either of which are fatal. 1st.
The bond of a chancery court clerk is not made assignable by
the statutes of Tennessee; and, 2dly. If it is, the assignment
must be made of the original bond, and not of a certified copy.
It will be seen, by reference to the act of 1794, (see Nich. &
Car. pages 15,, 147,) that the bonds of the Circuit and County
Court clerks are both made payable to the governor, and assignable incases of default; but the act of 1797, (see Nich. & Car.
162,) which requires a bond from the Chancery Court clerk,
does not make it assignable, and it remains as at common law.
In conflrmation. of this view of the case, the court is referred to
the case in 9 Yerg. p. 102, where the suit was institute&in the
name of the governor. Certainly, ther6 is no statute in Tennessee authorizirlg the assignment of a copy of a bond, as set
forth in this declaration. It is true that profert may, 'by the
statutes, be made of a copy, as the original remains in the office,
but the assignment must be of the original bond.
The fourth plea of the defendants was a good and sufficient
answer to the declaration, for several reasons. The law of
Tennessee does not impose upon clerks and masters in chancery, in express terms, the duty of requiring bonds in cases Qf
the dissolution of injunctions or judging of the sufficiency of
the.sureties thereto; the obligation arises simply from the order
or interlocutory decree delegating him to this power by the
court. It is exactly on a footing with any other requisition
made upon him by the chancellor in any cause, such as selling
property, taking testimony, &c.; he is bound to perform the
'
duty and make report thereof, and if no exceptions are filMe
by
the parties, they are absolutely concluded, unless in cases of
fraud. It would be hard indeed, if- after two years from the execution of an interlocutory decree, a clerk could be rendered liable for its faulty performance, when, perhaps, both the means
of rectifying his error or disproving it would have passed away
forever. The power is delegated by the court to its officer, and
when he performs the duty and makes report of his action, and
it is con rmed, the rights of the parties are fixed, and neither of
them can go behind the decree, unless some fraud should intervene.
If we should be mistaken in this view of the case, certainly
the surrender of the bond to the complainants, after the obten16*

186

SUPREME COURT.
Bovins et al. v. Ramsey eL al.

tion of their decree, their institution of a suit upon it, and obtaining judgment, execution, and part satisfaction of their debt,
do constitute an election of their remedy, e nd a confirmation of
the act of the clerk, which would estop them from suing him for
neglect of duty. This question hs been expressly decided in
New York, (see 1 Comstock, p. 433); and that, too, not in a
case where there was a faulty performanc3 of duty on the part
where he had clearly exceeded his powers, and
of the clerk, b -it
committed an illegal act. It is in consonance, too, with the
general rules adopted by the courts in regard to the responsibility of other public officers. If a sheriff, on the execution of
bailable process, siould take the notes or property of the .defendant in the process; and discharge him out of custody,
although the discharge is illegal, and renders the sheriff liable
for escape) yet, if the plaintiff accept the notes or property, he
is foreclosed from his remedy against the sheriff. See 2 B. &
P. 151; 6 Cow. 465; and 4 Campb. 43. The bond of the
defendants, in the chancery case, was made payable to the complainants, and they, by their acceptance of it, and recovery of
judgment, have converted it into a security of a higher character, and made it their own; thus disabling the defendant Ramsey from pursuing any recourse he might have had on the property originally attached, or the parties to the bond.
It may be urged, in answer to the authorities adduced, that
they were cases of an illegal exercise of authority by public officers, and that these acts must be disavowed intoto by the parties interested, or their acceptance would conclude them; but
in the case now at issue, the act of the clak was prirndfacie
legal, and the only mode of testing the insufficiency of the
bond was by pursuing the obligors to insolvency. It will be
seen, by reference to the cases themselves, that it was admitted
by the counsel, that acts of omission could be cured by affirmance; and the only dispute there was, whether the same rule
should be applied to cases of illegal exercise of powers, and the
admission is true on principle. If the clerk is liable here at all,
it must be on the ground that the bond was defective at the
time of its' reception; the complainants :inthe chancery suit,
then, had the right of exception; if they did not except, and
any Tight of action still remained to them, it must have been
perfected on the obtention of their decree, and that was the
period for their election.
The demurrer to the sixth plea was not sustainable, and properly overruled; the plea was a full answer to the declaration,
and should have been negatived. The clerk of the court, whether. acting ministerially or judicially in the reception of the
bond, was not -an, insurer; he was only bound to act bond fide

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

187

Bevins et al. v. Ramsey et al.

and with reasonable discretion.
Yerg. 276.

See 7 Smedes & A. 641; 7

Mr. Jusuce CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant, William B. A. Ramsey, and his sureties, were
sued on an official bond given by Ramsey as clerk of the Chancery Court held at Knoxville, Tennessee. The condition of the
bond declares that the clerk shall "truly and honestly keep the
records of said court, and discharge the duties of said office, according to law ;" and the declaration alleges that said Ramsey
did not truly and lawfully discharge the duties of his office, in
this, that Bevins, Earle & Co. filed their bill in equity in the
Chancery Court at Knoxville against Chase & Bowen, and
that certain goods of theirs were attached, and put into the hands
of said Ramsey, as receiver; and that by an order of court the
injunction was dissolved, and the receiver, Ramsey, was directed to surrender. the goods to Chase & Bowen, "upon their
entering into bond with security to abide by and perfohn the
judgment aid decree of the court upon final hearing of the cause,
if made against them; and that by virtue of the order it became the duty of Ramsey, as clerk and master of said court,- to
take a bond as above prescribed. Nevertheless, he did not
take from Chase & Bowen their bond, with sufficient sureties
thereto, but, on the contrary, he took certain sureties, (five in
number,) who were wholly insufficient to perform the decree of
the court, and on said insufficient bond and security surrendered
the goods to Chase & Bowen; and that afterwards, on a final
hearing, a decree was rendered against Chase & Bowen in fav-or
of Bevins, Earle & Co., for the sum of $6,303.64, with interest
thereon, which remained unpaid.
The second and third breaches aver that Ramsey surrendered
the goods without taking any bond, "with good and sufficient
sureties," from Chase & Bowen; and,
The fourth breach- avers, that no bond whatever was taken
from Chase & Bowen, on the delivery of the goods to them.
The defendant relied on several pleas in defence, only two of
which, the fourth and sixth, it is deemed necessary to notice.
The fourth plea sets out the order dissolving the injunction, and
the bond taken by Ramsey from Chase & Bowen, and their
five sureties, and avers that, after the final decree was made
against Chase & Bowen, the bond- was, on the application of
Bevins, Earle & Co., by order of the court, surrendered to them
by the clerk and master, and was accepted by them; and under
and by virtue of said bond, Be,%ins, Earle & Co. hawe demanded
and brought suit against and received of the sureties in said
.bond large, sums of money; to wit, two thousand dollars. part
and parcel of the penalty and condition of said bo.nd;

188

SUPREME

COURT.

Bevins et al. v. Ramsey el. al.

which were demanded, and received on, and in discharge of,
said bond.
The siath plea avers that the bond taken by Ramsey, as clerk
and master, was for ten thousand dollars, and was in due form;
and that in judging as to the sufficiency of the sureties, and in
surrendering the property, said Ramsey acted bond fide, and in
the exercise of his best judgment.
To this plea the plaintiffs replied, reaffirming that said Ramsey had not taken bond with good and sufficient security, as
was his duty; and to the replication there was a demurrer.
As the declaration did not charge the Clerk with bad faith,
and the presumption of good faith being primdfacie in his favor,
from the face of thee bond, taken by him, neither the plea or replication could be of any force, because in their legal effect they
are the same as that of the declaration; and so the court below
held, and, going back to the declaration, declared it bad; and
secondly, overruled the demurrer to the defmdant's fourth plea.
The plaintiffs were offered the liberty to amend their declaration
and pleadings, but this they declined doing, and final judgment
was rendered against them. *Whether it was necessary to aver in
the declaration that insufficient security was taken wittingly and
knowingly, and consequently in bad faith, we do not propose to
discuss, as it is a question more appropriately belonging to the
State courts than to this court. But as judgment was given
against the plaintiffs on the fourth plea, and as that judgment is
conclusive, if the plea is good, we will consider that plea. The
demurrer adrhits that Bevins, Earle & Cc. obtained the bond
of Chase & Bowen and their sureties; that they sued the sureties on it, and received of them two thousand dollars, part of
the penalty; and which sum was received in discharge of the
bond; whether the money was obtained by judgment or compromise, does not appear, nor is it material.
Chase & Bowen were principals to Ramsey, if he was in
default for neglect of official duty; and so were the sureties to
the bond responsible to him should he be compelled to pay in
their stead. The clerk was the lqst and most favored surety, and
if forced to pay the debt, he was entitled to all the securities
Bevins, Earle & Co. had, to remunerate h..s loss; and, in such
event, he would have been eiltitled to the bond on Chase &
Bowen, and their sureties. And in the next place, it is manifest, that Ramsey cannot be in a worse situation than if he had
been a party to the bond, in common wifih the other sureties;
and in such case, it must be admitted that he would stand discharged.
We concur with the Circuit Court that -he fourth plea was a
good defence, and order the judgment to be affirmed.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

189

Rockhill et al. v. Vanna et al.

Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the district of
East Tennessee, and was argued by counsel. -On consideration
whereof, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of the saia Circuit Court in this cause be, and the.
same is hereby, affirmed with costs.

THOMAS C. ROCKHILL, WADE T. SMITH, AND WILLIAM P. RocHILL, PLAINTIFFS, V. ROBERT HANNA, AsA B. STRONG, EDWARD HEIZER, AARON ALDRIDGE, ROBERT B. HANNA, DAVID
SHIELDS, THOMAS JOHNSON, JEREMIAH JOHNSON, AND GEORGE
BRUCE.
Three judgments were entered up against a debtor on the same day.
One of the creditors issued a capias ed satisfaciendum in February, and the other.two
issued writs of ficrifaciasupon the same day, in the ensuing month of March.
'nder the ca. sa. the defendant was taken and imprisoned, until discharged by due
process of law. The plaintiff then obtainedleave to issue afl.fa., which was levied
upon the same land previously levied upon. The marshal sold the property under
Nli the writs.
The executions of the firstfi.fa. creditors are entitled to be first satisfied out of the
proceeds of sale.
Each creditor having elected a different remedy, is entitled to a precedence in thal
which he has elected.
Besides, the ca. sa. creditor, by imprisoning the debtor, postponed his lien, because it
may happen, under certain circumstances, that the judgment is forever extintuished. If these do not happen, his lien is not restored as against creditors who
ave obtained a precedence during such suspension.

THIS case was brought up from the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Indiana, upon a certificate of
division in opinion between the judges thereof.
The facts in the case are succinctly stated in the opinion of
the court, and also the questions certified.
It was submitted, on the part of the plaintiffs, by Mr. Thomp.
son, upon a printed brief by Mr. Morrison and Mr. _Thfaybr,
and submitted on the part of the defendants, upon a printed
brief, by Mr. 0. H. Smith.
Mr. Thompson, for plaintiffs.
We shall in the outset assuriae, that the following principles
must be carried into an examination of this case, and that without a recognition of which, the questions submittedcannot be

