330

SUPREME COUR T.
Winans v. Denmead.

Ross WINANs, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,

v. ADAx, E IwVAR,

AN

TALBOT DENMEAD.
A patent was taken out for making the body of &. burden railroad car of sheet iron,
the upper part being cylindrical, and the lower part n the form of a frustum of a
cone, the under edge 'ofwhich has -aflange secure-I upon it. to which flange a
movable bottom Ls ,ached.
The claim was this. "What I claim as my invention and desire to secure by letterspatent, is, making the body of a ear for the transportation of coal, &c., in the form
of a frustum of a cone, substantially as herein described, whereby the force exerted by the weight of the load presses equally in all directions anld does not tend
to change the form thereof, so that every part resists its- equal proportion, and by.
which aLso the lower part is so reduced as to pass doom within the truck frame ald
between the axles, to lower the centre of gravity of the load without dimiaisling
the capacity of the ear as described. I also claim extending the body of the c,.r
below the connecting pieces of the truck frame and the line of draught, by passing
the connecting bars of the truck frame and the drauht bar, through the body of
the car substantially described."
This patent was not for merely char .ng the form of a machine, but by means of
such change to introduce and employ other mechanical principles or natural powers,
or a new mode of operation, and thus attain a new and useful result.
Hence, where, in a suit brought by the patentee against persons who had constructed
octagonal and pyramidal cars, the District Judge ruied that the patent was good
for conical bodies, but not for rectilinear bodies, this raling was erroneous.
The structure, the mode of operation, and the result atttined, were the same in both,
and the specification claimed in the patent covered ti e rectilinear cars. With this
explanation of the patent, it should have been left to the jury to decide the question
of infringement as a question of fact.

THIS case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United S ates for the District of Maryland.
It was an' action brought by Ross Wanans for the infringement of a patent-right. The jury, under the instruction of the
District Judge, the late Judge Glenn, then sitting alone, found
a verdict for the defendants; and the plaintiff brought the case
to this court by a writ of error.
The nature of the, case is set forth in 1.he explanatory statement prefixed to the argument of the counsel for the plaintiff
in error.
It was argued by Mr1t. Latrobe, for the plaintiff in error, and
by Mr.Campbell, for tfe defendant in errcr.
Statement and points of 'plaintiffin error.
On the 26th'June, 1847, Ross Winans, the plaintiff in error,
obtained letters-patent of the United States, for a new and useful improvement in cars for transportation of coal, &c.
The occasion for the invention thus patented, and the prin.
ciple of it, are well set forth in the specification, thus,-..
i"The transportation of coal, and all other heavy articles in
lumps,-has been attended with great injury to the cars, requir-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
Winans v. Denmead.

ing the bodies to be constructed with great strength, to resist
the outward pressure on the sides, as well as the vertical pressure on the bottom, due, not only to the weight of the mass, but
the mobility 6f the lumps amongst each other, tending 'to pack,'
as it is technically termed. Experience has shown, that cars on
the old mode-of construction cannot be made to carry a load
greater than their own weight; but, by my improvement, I am
enabled to make -cars of greater durability than those heretofore
made, which will transport double their weight of coal.
"The principle of my invention, by which I am enabled to
olrtain this important end, consists in making the body, or a
portion thereof, conical, by which the area of the bottom is regtuced, and the load exerts an equal strain on all parts, and which
does nQt tend to change the form, but to exert an equal strain
in the direction of the circle; at the same time this form presents the important advantage, by the reduced size of the lower
part thereof, to extend down within the truck and between .the
axles, thereby lowering the centre of gravity of the load."
The specification then gives a detailed description, of the mode
of constructing the cars in question, and proceeds thus: .
"What I claim as my invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent is, making the body of a car for the transportation
of coal, &c., in the form of a frustum of a cone, substantially as
herein described, whereby the force exerted by the weight of the
load presses equally in all directions, and does not tend to
change the form thereof, so that every part resists its equal proportion, and by which also the lower part is so reduced as to pass
down within the truck frame, and between the axles, to lower
the'centre of gravity of the load, without diminishing the capacity of the car as described."
And the specification concludes with a claim for a portion of
the construction, not important in this connection.
From the testimony it appears that cars, constructed by the
plaintiff, in accordarice with the specification, while they weighed but 5.750 lbs. each, carried 18.550 lbs. of coal - making the
weight of the load, in proportion to the weight of the car, as
3.3 to 1 -that the thickness of the sheet iron used in the construction of the bodies was but 3.32ds of an inch, and that the
dimensions of the band around the top .were I of an inch by 2
inches; and it is further shown, in illustration of the importance
of the invention, that the plaintiff, had constructed a model car,
which, weighing but 2,1 tons, carried, nevertheless, 91 tons of
coal "in perfect safety and satisfactorily from Cumberland to
Baltimore." The proportion of the weight of the car, in this
instance, to the weight of coal carried in it, was as 1 to -I
nearly. It appears further, from the testimony, generally, that

SUP REME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

the cars referred to were used in. the transportation of coal from
the mines near Cumberland to Baltimore.
It then appears that the defendants, "1in view for a call for
cars from the mining roads near Cumberland," in 1849, '60,
required their draftsman, Cochrane, to get up a car that would
suit their purposes; that he went to the Reading rcad, and "finding nothing there, returned to Baltimore, and went to the plaintiff's shops, where he saw a car nearly finished, which he examined and measured." That it first occurred to hin. to make.
a square car, but that, as this would inte:.fere with the wheels.
he made an octagonal one.
Another witness proves, that the iron used in the car, thus
built by the defendants, was of the same thickness as that used
by the plaintiff, to wit, 3.32ds of an inch, while the band
around the top was of the same thickness, -- to wit, Aof an inch,
and 11 inches in width.
It thus appears that a pafent was granted, in 1847, to Ross
Winans for a car for carrying coal, whose merits may be summed up thus; -that it carried more coal in proportion to its own
weight than any car previously in use, and that the load instead
of distorting it, preserved it in shape, acting as a framing.
These eminent advantages, which increased the available
power of the locomotive engine, looking to revenue on coal as a
freight, from 50 to 100 per cent. were to be attributed to the
peculiar shape of the car body, consisting of a frustum of a cone,
which permitted the use of iron, as thin as has been described,
lessening, in proportion, the weight of the car, or the weight,
the transportation of which by the locomot.ve gave no return in
revenue; and it appears that, in view of obtaining the best results from his invention, the plaintiff, in 1849, '50, at the instance of the witness Pratt, perfected a nmodel car for certain
mining roads near Cumberland ; - that this model car was
examined and measured by the defendan;'s draftsman, to aid
him in getting up coal cars for other mining companies in 1849
and 1850; and, subsequently, cars of the same weight of material in the bodies, which differed from the plaintiff's in this
only, that while the latter were cylindrical and conical, the
others were octagonal and pyramidal, - were built by the defendants, to the number of 24.
Believing that the cars thus built by the defendants were
built in palpable violation of his patent, the plaintiff brought the
present suit.
It will be seen, by examining the record, that the main question before the jury was, whether the car., so built by the defendants, were substantially the same in principle and mode
of operation with the car described and claimed by the plain-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

333

Winans v. Denmead.

tiff in his specification, and experts were examined on both sides
on this point.
On the part of the defendants it was contended, that the cars
of the defendants were octagonal in shape, while the plaintiff's
were cylindrical.
On the part of the plaintiff it was insisted, that this was immaterial, provided the octagonal car obtained the same useful
results, through the operation of the same principles in its construction; and it was suggested that, if the original construction
of the body in right lines saved the infringement, an hundredsided polygon would be without the patent; and also that, in
poiat of fact, even the conical car was oftener a polygon than
a true curve, owing to the character of the material from which
it was built; and that if, by accident, it came from the shops a
true theoretical cone, a day or two's use made a polygon of it;
and that the immediate tendency of the load of coal, when put
into an octagon car, was to bulge out its size and convert it into
a conical one. All of which was urged for the purpose of showing that the question was necessarily a question as to whether
a question
the change of form was colorable or substantial
of fact, which it belonged to the jury to determine.
It is not necessary, in this statement, and in view of the
questions arising on this appeal, to go into evidence in regard
to the merely colorable difference of construction in detail. All
the 'witnesses, on both sides, proved that the advantages which
Winans proposed to obtain were substantially obtained in the
defendant's cars - the plaintiff's witnesses swearing to the fact
directly, and the defendant's witnesses admitting it on crossexamination; and the only testimony qioted now is that of the
defendant's own and leading witness.
"That the advantage of a reduced Lottom of the car thus
obtained, whether the car was conical or octagonal; that the
strengthening of the bottom, due to the adoption of the conical
form, was the same when the octagonal form was adopted or
the circular; that the circular form was the best to resist the
pressure, as, for instance, in a steam boiler, and an octagonal
one better than the square form; that the octagonal car was not
better than the conical car; that for practical purposes, one was
as good as the other; that a polygon of many sides would be
equivalent to a circle; that the octagon car, practically, was as
good as the conical one; and that, substantially, witness saw no
difference between the two."
The testimony must indeed be all one way, where the plaintiff is willing to rest his case on the defendant's own showing.
In the view of the plaintiff below, there were two questions;
the first for the courti being the construction of the patent; the

334

SUPREME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

second for the jury, being the substantial, or only colorable
difference between the cars in principle and mode of operation.
The plaintiff prayed the Circuit Cout (his Honor, the late
Judge Glenn, sitting alone) accordingly.
In framing the prayer for the court's construction of the specification, the language of the specification was adopted, in
describing the object of the invention; and the court were
asked to say to the jury "that what they had to look at was
not simply whether, in form and circumstances, 'Which may be
more or less immaterial, that which had been done by the defendant varied from the specification of the plaintiff's patent,
but to see whether, in substance and effect, the defendants,
having the same object in view as that set forth in the plaintiff's specification, had, since the date thereof, constructed cars
which, substantially, on the same principle and on the same
mode of operation, accomplished the same result." And to give
more certainty to the prayer, the plaintiff added the instruction
as prayed for by him, "that to entitle the plaintiff to a verdict, it
was not necessary that the body of the defendants' cars should
be conical, in the exact definition of the term, provided the jury
should believe that the form adopted by the defendants accomplished the same result, substantially, with that in view of the
plaintiff, and upon substantially the same principle and in the
same mode of operation."
The language of the first part of the prayer, here quoted, was
taken verbatim, nearly, from the charge of Sir N. C. Tindal to
the jury in the case of Walton v. Potter and Horsfall, Webster's Pat. Cases, 587.
This was a case where the plaintiff's patent was for the substitution of sheets of India rubber for leather for the insertion
of the teeth, in the manufacture of cards for carding wool; and
the infiingement lay in the use of cloth saturated with a solution of India rubber for the same purpose; and the court, after
determining the construction of the specification, gave substantially the same instruction that the plaintiff prayed for here. It
is in this case that C. J. Tindal says, "That if a man has, by
dint of his own genius and discovery, after a patent has been
obtained, been able to give the public, without reference to the
former one, or borrowing from the former one, a new and superior mode of-arriving at the same end, there can be no objection
to his taking out a patent for that purpose. But he has no
right whatever to take, if I may so say, a leaf out of his neighbor's book, &c."
It would be hard indeed to find a case where the court's decision, applied to the facts in this cause, more completely n egatived the right, set up by the defendants, to build the cars

DECEMfB'ER TERM, 1853.

335

Winans v. Denmead.

which they did build; for here, the taking of the leaf out of the
book is not left to inference, but day and date are given for
the act.
To the same point is the case Huddart v. Grimshaw, also
cited in the court below. Webster's Patent Cases, 95.
Here a patent had been obtained for making rope, a part
of the process being. the passage of the strands, while being
twisted, through a tube; and it appeared that they had formerly
passed through a hole in a plate. If the tube and the plate -were
the same, substantially, the difference being colorable only, then
the patent was void, otherwise it was good; and the question
was left to the jury, who found for the plaintiff.
To the same point is the case of Russell v. Cowley & Dixon,
Webster's Patent Cases, 463.
This was the case of a patent for welding iron tubes, by
drawing them, at a welding heat, through a conical hole. The
infringement was the passing them between rollers; and the
question of colorable or substantial difference, was referred to
the jur.
So in the case of Morgan v. Seaward, Webster's Patent Cases,
170, which -was upon Gallaway's patent for paddle wheels of
steam-vessels, and where the question of infringement having
arisen, the Court, Alderson, B., told the jury "that the question would be, simply, whether the defendant's machine was
only colorably different; that is, whether it differed merely in
the substitution of mechanical equivalents for the contrivances
which were resorted to by the patentee." And after referring to
points of construction, the court continues, "Therefore, the two
machines were alike in principle; one man was the first inventor
of the principle, and the other has adopted it; and though he
may have carried it into effect by substituting one mechanical
equivalent for another, still you (the jury) are to look to the
substance, and not the mere form, and if it is in substance an
infringement, you ought to find so."
So, too, in the case of Crossley v. Beverly, growing out of
Clegg's patent for a.gas meter; and referred to by Alderson, B.,
in the case of Jupe v. Pratt and others, Webster's Patent Cases,
144, as follows : "There never was a more instructive case than
that. I remember very well the argument put by the Lord
Chief Baron, who led on that case, and succeeded. There never
were two things to the eye more different than the plaintiff's invention, and what the defendant had done in contravention of
his patent-right. The plaintiff's invention was different inform;
different in construction; it agreed with it only in one thing,
and that was, by moving in the water. A certain point was made
to open either before or after, so as to shut up another, and the

336

SUPREME

COURT.

Winans v. Denmcad.

gas was made to pass through this opening; passing through it,
it was made to revolve it; the scientific men, all of them, said,
"the moment a practical, scientific man has got that principle
in his head, he can multiply, without end, the forms in which
that principle can be made to operate."
As in the case under discussion; the moment a practical,
scientific man is furnished with the idea of giving to the car a
shape which will, by dispensing with th.- framing ordinarily
used, enable him to make it lighter in proportion to its load,
than it has ever been made before, he can iuultiply without end
the forms in which this principle can be made to operate. He
can make the car a polygon of an hundred sides, of twenty
sides, or of eight sides. He can vary the angle of the cone, or
pyramid, through which the coal is discharged, ad infinitum.
He can make the opening at the bottom larger or smaller to
please his fancy. He can avail himself or not of the advantage
of lowering the car, in position, so as tc lower the centre of
gravity. Still the question must always be, whether, whatever
the shape he adopts, he is not availing himself of the principle
first suggested by the patentee; a question which, in a court
of law, is at all times a question not for the court, but the jury;
after the former -hall have given to the specification that construction which 's to govern the latter in determining whether
the infringement complained of falls, subsiantially, in principle
and mode of operation, within the plaintiff's patent.
The authorities here cited, and which were relied on in the
court below, are held to sustain the prayer of the plaintiff; that,
having pronounced upon the construction of the specification,
thequestion of infringement should be left to the jury.
The court below thought differently, ho-wever, and, rejecting
the, prayers of both plaintiff and defendants, instructed the jury,
11That while the patent is good for what is described therein;
a conical body in whole or in part, supported in any of the
modes indicated for a mode of sustaining a conical body on a
carriage or.truck, and drawing the same, and for those principles which are due alone to conical vehicles and not to rectilinear bodies; and it being admitted that the defendant's car
was entirely rectilinear, that there was no infringement of the
plaintiff's patent." See Record, pages 16, 17.
Upon this instruction nothing was left for the jury but to
render a verdict for the defendant. The court had not only settled the construction, but the infringement also.
The present appeal is from this decision of the late district
judge.
The points of the plaintiff in error are,
1. That the court below erred in the construction which it

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

337

Winans v. Denmead.

gave to the specification, should it be held that this construction
limited the plaintiff to the strictly conical form.
And upon this point the authority relied on is the patent itsdlf.
2. That the court below erred, even supposing that its construction of the specification was correct, in excluding the inquiry whether the cars of the defendants were not substantially
the same in principle and mode of operation with those of the
plaintiff; admitting that these last were rectilinear in their sections and not curvilinear.
And upon this point the authorities relied on, are, Walton v.
Potter, Webster's Patent Cases, 687; Huddart v. Grimshaw,
Id. 95; Jupe v. Pratt, citing Crossley v. Beverly, Id. 144: Morgan v. Seaward, Id. 170; Russel v. Crowley, 1l 463; Phillips
on Patents, 125, 6, 7.
(Infringement.) Curtis on Patents, 263, 265, 264, 5, 268;
Citing, Wyeth v. Stone, 1 Story, 273; Odiorne v. Winkley, 2
Gall. 61; Gray v. James, Peters, C. C. R. 394; Bovili v. Moore,
Dav. Pat. Ca. 361.
3. That the court below erred in taking the question of fact
:for the jury.
Upon which point the authorities already cited are relied on.
Defendant's Points.
The defendant in error submits that the court below was right
in refusing the prayer on the other side and giving the instruction
which it did.
1. As to the rejected prtyer of the plaintiff
This prayer asserted the essence of the invention to consist in
the conical form adopted by the patentee, and rightly so asserted,
but the conclusion thence drawn was a noz sequitur. It was
that any other form was a violation. Had the patent claimed
the application of a principle operating through the form of a
cone, and more or less through other forms, and claimed the
principle or mode of operation through whatever shape permitted
it, there would have been some ground for the deduction. But
the claim is confined to a single form, and only through and by
that form to the principles which it embodies; and if, out of
many forms embodying more or less perfectly the same mode
of operation, the plaintiff in error has made his choice of the best,
he is confined to that choice and the rejection which it involves
of all other forms less felicitous. It may be admitted, without
hesitation, that the substitution of mechanical or chemical equivalents, as they are called, will mt affect the rights of a patenteo,
but the cases in which this principle holds are where the mudvuz
operandiembraces more than a single way to reach the desired
end. Where the invention consists of a principle embodied in
VOL. XV.

29

.838

SUPREM1E COURT.
Winans v. Denmead

a single form, the form is the principle a:ad the principle the
form, and there can be no violation of the -principle without the
use of the form. Davis v. Palmer, 2 Brockenbrough, 309.
2. As to the court's instruction.
The construction of the patent was exchsively for the judge.
He construed it correctly as embracing only a curvilinea form.
It necessarily followed that, as the infringements relied on consisted only in the construction of rectilinear- forms, there was no
evidence to go to the jury of any violation of the patent, and it
was proper in him so to instruct them. Greenleaf v. Birth, 9
Peters, 292.
r. Justice CURTIS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the Distiict of Maryland. The plaintiff in error
brought his action in that court for an infringement of the exclusive right to .make, use, and sell "an improvement in cars for
the transportation of coal," &c., granted to him by letters-patent
bearing date on the 26th day of June, 1847; and, the judgment
of that court being for the defendants, h6 has brought the record
here by this writ of error.
It appears, by the. bill of exceptions, that the letters-patent
declared on were duly issued, and that their validity was not
questioned; but the defendants denied that they had infringed
upon the exclusive right of the plaintiff.
On such a trial, two questions arise. The first is, what is the
thing patented; the second, has that thing been constructed,
used, or sold by the defendants.
-The first is a question of law, to be deleimined. by the court,
construing the lettels-patent, and the desciption of the invention and specification of claim annexed to them. The second
is a question of fact, to be submitted to a juy.
In this case it is alleged the court construed the specification
of claim erroneously, and thereby withdrew from the jury
questions which it was their province to decide. This renders
it necessary to examine the letters-patent, and the schedule
annexed to them, to see whether their construction by the
Circuit Court was correct.
In this, as in most patent cases, founded on alleged improvements in machines, in order to determine what is the thing
patented, it is necessary to inquire.
1. What. is the structure or device, described by the patentee,
as embodying his invention.
2. What mode of operation is introduced and employed by
this structure or device.
3. What result is attained by means of this mode of operation.

DECEM1BER TERM, 1853.

339

Winans v. Denraead.

4. Does the specification of claim cover the described mode
,of operation by which the result is attained.
Without going into unnecessary details, or referring to drawings, it may be stated that the structure, described by this patent,
is the body of a burden railroad car, made of sheet iron, the
upper part being cylindrical, and the lower part in the form of a
frustum of a cone, the under edge of which has a flange secured
upon it, to which flange a movable bottom is attached. This
bottom is made movable, in order to discharge the load through
the aperture left by removing it.
To understand the mode of operation introduced and employed by means of this form of the car body, it is only
n,--cessary to state, what appears on the face of the specification,
and was testified to by experts at the trial as correct, that, by
reason of the circular form of the car body, the pressure of the
load outwarcis was equal in every direction, and thus the load
supported itself in a great degree; that, by making the lower
part conical, this principle of action operated throughout the
car, with the exception of the small space to which the movable
bottom was attached; that, being conical, the lower part of the
car could be carried down below the truck, between the wheels,
thus lowering the centre of gravity of the load; that the pressure outwards upon all'parts of the circle being equal, the tensile
strength of the iron was used to a much greater degree than in
a car of a square form; and, finally, that this form of the lower
part of the car facilitated the complete discharge of the load
through the aperture, when the bottom was removed.
It thu appears that, by means of this change of form, the
patentee has introduced a mode of operation not before employed in burden cars, that is to say, nearly equal pressure in
all directions by the entire load, save that small part which rests
on the movable bottom; the effects of which are, that the load,
in a great degree, supports itself, and the tensile strength of the
iron is used, while at the same time, by reason of the same form,
the centre of gravity of the load is depressed, and its discharge
facilitated.
The practical Yesult attained by this mode of operation is correctly described by the patentee; for the uncontradicted evidence
at the trial showed that he had not exaggerated the practical
advantage of his invention. The specification states:
"The transportation of coal, and all other heavy articles ir
lumps, has been attended with great injury to the cars, requiring
the bodies to be constructed with great strength to resist the
outward pressure on the sides, as well as the vertical pressure
on the bottom, due not only to the weight of the mass, but the
mobility of the lumps among each other tending to 'pack, as

SUPREME COTTRT.
Winans v. Denmead.

it is technically termed. Experience has shown that cars, on
the old mode of construction, cannot be :made to carry a load
greater than its own weight; but, by my improvement, I am
enabled to make cars of greater durability than those heretofore
made, which will transport double their own weight of coal," &c.
Having thus ascertained what is the structure described, the
mode of operation it embodies, and the practical result attained,
the next inquiry is, does the specification of claim cover this
mode of operation, by which this result is affected ?
It was upon this question the case turned at the trial in the
Circuit Court.
The testimony showed that the defendants had made cars
similar to the plaintiff's, except that the form was octagonal
instead of circular. There was evid(ence tending to prove that,
considered in reference to the practical uses of such a car,
the octagonal car was substantially the same as the circular.
Amongst other witnesses upon this point was James Miliholland, who was called by the defendants. He testified.
"That the advantage of a reduced bottom of the car was
obtained, whether the car was conical or octagonal; that the
strengthening of the bottom, due to the adoption of a conical
form, was the same when the octagonal form was adopted, or
the circular. That the circular form was the best to resist the
pressure, as, for instance, in a steam boiler, and an octagonal
one better than the square form; that the octagonal car was not
better than the conical car; that, for practical purposes, one was
as good as the other; that a polygon of many sides would be
equivalent to a circle; that the octagon car, practically, was as
good as the conical ones; and that, substantially, the witness
saw ho difference between the two."
The district judge, who presided at the trial, ruled,
That while the patent is good f6r what [is] described therein,
a conical body, in whole or in part, supported in any of the
modes indicated for a mode of sustaining a conical body on a
carriage or truck, and drawing the same, and to those principles
which were due alone to conical vehicles, and not to rectilinear
bodies, and it being admitted that the defendants' car was entirely rectilinear, that there was no infringement of the plaintiff's
patent.
The substance of this ruling was, that the claim was limited
to the particular geometrical form mentioned in the specification; and as the defendants had not made cars in that particular
form, there could be no iffringement, even if the cars made by
the defendants attained the same result by employing, what
-was in fact, the same mode of operation as that described by
the patentee. We think this ruling was erioneous.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

341

Winans v. Denmead.

Under our law a patent cannot be granted merely for a change
of form. The act of February 21, 1793, § 2, so declared in express terms; and though this declaratory law was not reenacted
in the Patent Act of 1836, it is a principle which necessarily
makes part of every system of law granting patents for new
inventions. Merely to change the form of a machine is the
work of a constructor, not of an inventor; such a change cannot be deemed an invention. Nor does the plaintiff's patent
rest upon such a change. To change the form of an existing
machine, and by means of such change to introduce and employ other mechanical principles or natural powers, or, as it is
termed, a new mode of operation, and thus attain a new and
useful result, is the subject of a patent. Such is the basis on
which the plaintiff's patent rests.
Its substance is a new mode of operation, by means of which
a new result is obtained. It is this new mode of operation
which gives it the character of an invention and entitles the
inventor to a patent; and this new mode of operation is, in
view of the patent law, the thing entitled to protection. The
patentee may; and should, so frame his specification of claim as
to cover this new mode of operation which he has invented;
and the only question in this case is, whether he has done so;
or whether he has restricted his claim to one particular geometrical form.
There being evidence in the case tending to show that other
forms do in fact embody the plaintiff's mode of operation, and,
by means of it, produce the same new and useful result, the
question is, whether the patentee has limited his claim to one
out of the several forms which thus embody'his invention.
Now, while it is undoubtedly true, that the patentee may so
restrict his claim as to cover less than what he invented, or may
limit it to one particular form of machine, excluding all other
forms, though they also embody his invention, yet such an interpretation should not be put upon his claim if it can fairly be
construed otherwise, and thi for two reasons:
1. Because the reasonable presumption is, that, having a just
right to cover and protect his whole invention, he intended to do
so. Haworth v. Hardeastle, Web. P. C. 484.
2. Because specifications are to be construed liberally, in accordance with the design of the Constitution and the patent
laws of the-United States, to promote the progress of the useful arts, and allow inventors to retain to their own use, not any
thing which is matter of common right, but what they themselves have created. Grant v. Raymond, 6-Pet. 218; Ames v.
Howard, 1 Sunnn. 482, 485; Blanchard v. Sprague, 3 Id. 535,
539; Davoll v, Brown, 1 Wood. & Mlinot, 53, 57; Parker v. Ha29

*

342

SUPREME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

worth, 4 McLean's R. 372; Le Roy v. Tatham, 14 How. 181,
and opinion of Parke, Baron, there quoted; Neilson v. Henford
Web. P. C. 341; Russell v. Cowley, Id. 470; Burden v. Winislow, (decided at the present term,) 15 Hcward.
The claim of -the plaintiff is in the following words:
"What I claim as my'invention, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is making the body of a car for the transportation
of coal, &c., in the form of a frustum of a cone, substantially
as herein described, whereby the force exested by the weight of
the load presses equally in all directions, and does not tend to
change the-form thereof, so that every paii; resists its equal proportion, and by which, also, the lower part is so reduced as to
pass down within the truck frame and between the axles, to
ower the centre of gravity of the load without diminishing the
capacity of the car as described.
"I also claim extending the body of the car below the connecting pieces of the truck frame, and the line of draught, by
'passing the connecting bars of the truck f:ame, and the draught
bar, through the body of the -car, substantially as described."
It is generally true. when a patentee describes a machine,
and then claims it at described, that he is understood to intend
to claim, and does by law actually cover, n6t only the precise
forms he has described, but all other forz.s-which embody his
invention; it being a familiar rule that, to copy the principle
or mode of operation described, is an infringement, although
such copy should be, totally unlike the oiginal in form or proportions.
Why should not this rule be applied to this case?
It is not sufficient to distinguish this case to say, that here the
invention consists in a change of form, and the patentee has
claimed one form only.
Patentable improvements in machinery are almost always
made by changing some one or more forms of one or more
parts, and thereby intrqducing some mechanical principle or
mode of action not treviously existing in the machine, .and so
securing a new or improved result. And, .n the numerous cases
in which it has been held, that to copy the patentee's mode of
.peration was an infringement, the infringer had got forms and
proportions not described, and not in terms claimed. If it -were
not so, lio question of infringement could arise. If the machine
c-omplaired of were a copy, in form, of t:he machine described
in-the specification, of course it would be at once seen to be an
infringement. It could be nothing else. -It is only ingenious
diversities of form and proporti6n, presenting the appearance
of something unlike the thing patented, which give rise to questions; and the property of inventors would be valueless, if it

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

343

Winans v. Denmead.

were enough for the defendant to say, your improvement consisted in a change of form; you describe and claim but one
form; I have not taken that, and so have not infringed.
The answer is, my improvement did not consist in a change
of form, but in the new employment of principles or powers,
in a new mode of operation, embodied in a form by means of
which a new or better result is produced; it was this which
constituted my invention; this you have copied, changing only
the form; and that answer is justly applicable to this patent.
Undoubtedly there may be cases in which the letters-patent
do include only the particular form described and claimed.
Davis v. Palmer, 2 Brock. '09, seems to have been one of
thr(ce cases. But they are in entire accordance -with what is
':oove stated.
The reason why such a patent covers only one geometrical
form, is not that the patentee has described and claimed that
form only; it is because that form only is capable of embodying his invention; and, consequently, if the f6rm is not copied,
the invention is not used.
Where form and substance are inseparable, it is enough to
look at the form only. Where they are separable; where the
whole substance of the invention may be copied in a different
form, it is the duty of courts and juries to look through the
form for the substance of the invention -for that which entitled the inventor to his patent, and which the patent was designed to secure; where that is found, there is an infringement;
and it is not a defence, that it is embodied in a form not described, and in terms claimed by the patentee.
Patentees sometimes add to their claims an express declaration, to the effect that the claim extends to the thing patented,
however its form or proportions may be varied. But this is un-'
necessary. The law so interprets the claim without the addition of these words. - The exclusive right to the thing patented
is not secured, if the public are at liberty to make substantial
copies of it, varying its form or proportions. And, therefore,
the patentee, having described his invention, and shown its
principles, and claimed it in that form which most perfectly embodies it, is, in contemplation of law, deemed to claim every
form in which his invention may be copied, unless he manifcsts
an intention to disclaim some of those forms.
Indeed it is difficult to perceive how any other rule could
be applied, practicably, to cases like this. How is a question of
infringement of this patent to be tried? 'It.may safely be assumed, that neither the patentee nor any other constructer has
made, or will make, a car exactly circular. In practice, deviations from a true circle will always occur. How near to a

SUPREME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

circle, then, must a car be, in order to infringe ? N'Iay it be
slightly elliptical, or otherwise depart from a true circle, and, if
so, how far?
In our judgment, the only answer that can be given to these
questions is, that it must be so near to a true circle as substantially to embody the patentee's mode of operation, and thereby
attain the same kind of result as was reached by his invention.
It is not necessary that the defendant's cars should employ the
plaintiff's invention to as good advantage as he employed it, o
that the result should be precisely the same in degree. It must
be the same in kind, and effected by the employment of his
mode of operation in substance. Whether, in point of fact, the
defeffdants cars did copy the plaintiff's iavention, in the sense
above explained, is a question for the jury, and the court b.elow
erred in not leaving that question to them upon the evidence in
the case, which tended to prove the affirmative.
The judgment of the court below must be reversed.
Mr. Chief Justice TANEY, M. Justice CATRON, Mr. Jus-tice DANIEL, and M. Justice CAMPBELL, dissented.
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case.
The plaintiff claims to have designed and constructed a car
for the transportation of coal on railroads which shall carry the
heaviest load, in proportion to its own weight. His design consists in the adoption of the "conical form"
•for the body of the car," "whereby the weight of the load
presses equally in.all directions;" does no-; "tend to change the
form of the car; I"permits it "to extend dcwn within the truck,"
lowering "the centre of gravity of the load," and by its reduced
size at ±he bottom adding to its strength and durability. He
claims as his invention, and it is the -whole of the change which
he has made in the manufacture of cars, "the making of the
body of the car in th&form of the frustum of a cone."
It is agreed that a circle contains a greater a~ea than any
figure of the same perimeter; that the conical form is best suited
to resist~pressure from within; and that the reduced size at the
bottom of the car is favorable to its strength. The introduction
of the cars of the plaintiff, upon the railroad, for the transportation of coal, was attended by a great increase of the loads in
proportion to the weight of the car. The merits of the design
are frankly conceded. Nevertheless, it is notorious, that there
does exist a very great variety of vessels in common domestic
use "of a conical form," or, "of the form of the frustum of a
cone," for.the reception and transportation of articles of prime

DECEMBER TERM, 1.853.

345

Winans v. Denmead.

necessity and constant demand, such as water, coal, food, clothing, &c. It is also true that the properties of the circle, and of'
circular forms alluded to in the patent of the plaintiff, are understood, and appreciated, and have been applied in every department of mechanic art. One cannot doubt that a requisition
from the transportation companies for cars of a diminished
weight, and an increased capacity, upon the machinists and
engineers connected with the business, would have been answered promptly by a suggestion of a change in the form of
the car. The merit of the plaintiff seems to consist in the
perfection of his design, and his clear statement of the scientific pinciple it contains.
There arises in my mind a strong if not insuperable objectipn
to the admission of the claim, in the patent for "the conical
form," 'or the form of the frustum of a cone," as an invention.
Or that any machinist or engineer can appropriate by patent a
forn whose properties are universally understood, and which is
in very common use, in consequence of those properties, for purposes strictly analogous. The authority of adjudged cases seems
to me strongly opposed to the claim. Hotchkiss v. Greenwood,
11 How. 249; Losh v. Hague, Web. Pat. Cas. 207; Winan v.
Prcvidence Railroad Company, 2 Story, 412; 2 Id. 190; 2 Car,
& Kir. 1022; 3 W. H. & Gord. 427.
Conceding, however, that the invention was patentable, and
this seems to have been conceded in the Circuit Court, the inquiry is, what is the extent of the claim? The plaintiff professes
to have made an improvement in the form of a vehicle, vhich has
been a long time in use, and exists in a variety of forms. He
professes to have discovered the precise form most fitted for the
objects in view.. He describes this form, as the matter of his
invention, and the principle he develops applies to no other
form. For this he claims his patent. We are authorized to
conclude, that his precise and definite specification and claim
were designed to ascertain exactly the limits of his invention.
Davis v. Palmer, 2 Brock. 298.
The car of the defendants is of an octagonal form, with an
octagonal pyramidical base. There was no contradiction, in
the evidence given at the trial, in reference to its description,
nor as to the substantial effects of its use and operation. In
the size, thickness of the metal employed in its construction,
weight, and substantial and profitable results, the one car does
not materially vary from the other. The difference consists in
the form, and in that, it is visible and palpable.
The Circuit Court, acting upon these facts, of which there
was no dispute, instructed the jury that an infringement of the
plaintiff's patent had not taken place. I do not'find the ques-

346

SUPREME COURT.
Winans v. Denmead.

Lion before the court a compound question of law and fact.
The facts were all ascertained, and upon no construction of
those facts was the plaintiff, in my opinion, entitled to a judgment.
In theory, the plaintiff's car is superior to all others. His car
displays the qualities which his specification distinguishes. The
equal pressure .of -the load in all directions ; the tendency to
preserve the form, notwithstanding the pressure of the load; the
absence of the cross strain; the lowering of the centre of thrgravity of the load, - are advantages which it possesses in a superior degree to that of the defendants'. Yet the experts say
that there is no appreciable difference in the substantial results
affbrded by the two.
The cause for this must be looked for in a source extrinsic to
the mere form of the vehicles. Nor is it difficult to detect the
cause for this identity in the results in such a source.
The coarse, heavy, cumbrous operations of coal transportati on
do not admit of the manufacture of cars upon nice mathem a.tical formulas, nor can th6 loads be adjusted with much reference to exactness. There is a liability to violent percussion s
and extraordinary strains, which must be provided for by arn
excess in the weight and thickness of the material used. Then,
unless the difference in the weight -of the load is great, there
will be no correspondent difference in th&receipts of the transportation companies.
The patentee, not exaggerating the theorefical superiority of
the form of his car) overlooked those facts which reduced its
practical value to the level of cars of a form widely variant
from his own. The object of this suit is to repair that defect
of observation. It is, that this-court shall extend, by construction, the scope and operation of his patent, to embrace every
form which in practice will yield a result substantially equal or
appr6ximate to his own.
In the instruction asked for by the plaintiff, "form and cirCumstances" are teated as more or less immaterial, but the
verdict is claimed if the defendants have constructed cars
"which, substantially on the same principle and in the same
mode of operation, accomplish the same result."
. The principle stated in the patent applies only to circular
forms.
The modes of operation in coal transportation have experienced no change from the skill of the plaintiff, except by the
change from the rectilineal figare to the circular.
The defendant adheres to the rectilinEal form. The result
accomplished by the .use of the two cars i: the same - a more
economical transportation of coal. This result it is that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

847

Winans v. Denmead.

plaintiff desires to appropriate, but this cannot be permitted.
Curtis on Patents, § 4, 26, 27, 86, 87, 88; 2 Story, 408, 411.
In the case of Aiken v. Bemis, 3 Wood. & A. 349, the lear.ed
judge said, "When a p tentee chooses to cover with his patent
the material of which a part of his machine is composed, he
entirely endangers his right to prosecute when a different and
inferior material is employed, and one which he himself, after
repeated experiment, had rejected."
The plaintiff confines his claim to the use of the conical form,
and excludes from his specification any allusion to any other.
He must have done so advisedly. He might have been unwilling to expose the validity of his patent,'by the assertion of a
right to any other. Can he abandon th&'ground of his patent,
and ask now, for the exclusive use of all cars which, by experiment, shall be found to yield the advantages which he anticipated for conical cars only?
The claim of to-day is, that an octagonal car is an infringement of this patent. %ill this be the limit to that claim ?.Who
can tell the bounds within which the mechanical industry of the
country may freely exert itself? What restraints does this patent impose in this branch of mechanic art?
To escape the incessant and intense competition whidh exists
in every department of industry, it is not strange that persong
should seek the cover of the patent act, for any happy effort of
contrivance or construction; nor that patents should be very
frequently employed to obstruct invention, and to deter from
legitimate operations of skill and ingenuity. This danger was
foreseen, and provided for, in the patent act. The patentee, is
obliged, by law, to describe his invention, in such full, clear, and
exact terms, that from the description, the invention may be
constructed and used. Its principle and modes of operation
must be explained; and the invention shall particularly " specify
and point" out what he claims as his invention. Fulness,
clearness, exactnessi preciseness, and particularity, in the description of the invention, its principle, and of the matter claimed
to be invented, will alone fulfil the demands of Congress or the
wants of the country. Nothing, in the administrtion of this
law, will be more mischievous, more productive of oppressive
and costly litigation, of .exorbitant and unjust pretensions and
vexatious demands, more injurious to labor, than a relaxation
of these wise and salutary requisitions of the act of Congress.
In my judgment, the principles of legal interpretation, as well
language of this statute
as the public interest, require, that
import.
and this
shall have its full significance
In this case the language of the patent is full, clear, and exact. The claim is particular and specific.

348

SUPREME COURT.
Walworth v. Kneeland eD al.

Neither the specification nor the claim, in my opinion, embrace the workmanship of the defendants. I therefore respectfully dissent from the judgment of the court, which implies the
contrary.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
frorni the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Maryland, and was argued. by counsel. On consideration
whereof, it is no-w here ordered and adjudged by this court,
that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be,
and the same is hereby reversed, with costs, and that this cause
be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to award a venirefacias de novo.

CLINTON WALWORTH, PLAINTIFF IN ER.OR, V. JAMES KNEELAND AND HANNAH HIS WIFE, AND FRANCES CORNELIA FosTER AND WILIAm FOSTER, INFANTS, BY THEIR NEXT FRIEND,

JAMES KNEELAND.
Where a case was decided in a State court against a-paity, who was ordered to con.
* vey certain land, and he brought the case up to this court upon the ground that the
contract for the conveyance of the land was contrarr to the laws of the United
Ptates, this is not enough to give jurisdiction to this court under the 25th section
Uf the judiciary act.
The State court decided against him upon the ground that the opposite party was
innocent of all design to contravene the laws of the United States.
But even if, the Stato'court had enforced a contract, which was fraudulent and void,
the losing party has no right which he can enforce in this court, which cannot therefore take jurisdiqtion over the case.
.

THis case'was brought up from the Supreme Court of the
State of Wisconsin, by a writ of error istsued under the 25th
section of the judiciary act.
The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
It -was submitted, on a printed briefby Mr. Smith, on behalf
of' the plaihfiff in error, and argued by M. Baxter, for the defendants in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error made the following
points.

1st. The contract in which this suit originated was made in
violation of the act of Congress, approved March 3d, 1807, en
titled "An act to prevent settlements being made on lands ceded
to the United States, until authorized by law. 2 U. S. Stat. 445.

