358

SUPRE ]E COURT.
Forsyth v. Reynolds et al.

ROBERT FORSYTH, APPELLANT, V. JOHN REYNOLDS, JOSIAH R
MCCLURE, AND JOHN lcDoUGALL.
By two acts, passed in 1820 and 1823, Congress granted a lot in the village of Peoria
in the State of Illinois, to each settler who "had not heretofore received a confirmation of claim or donation of any tract of land or village lot from the United States.
Lands granted to settlers in. Michigan, prior to the surrender of the western posts
by
out Jay's treaty
the Biti.h government, and which grants were made out to ca
in 1794, were not donations so as to exclude a settler ir. Pcori& from the benefit of
the two acts of Congress above mentioned.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court of the Disfrict
of Illinois, sitting as a court of equity.
Tile ca~e -was this.
On the 4th day of June, 1850, John :Reynolds, Josiah I.
McClure, and John JIcDougall, appellee. in the court, filed
their bill in the Circuit Court of the United States, for the district of Illinois, against Robert Forsyth, appellant in this court.
The bill sets forth that the c6mplainants claim title to a tract
of land situated in the village of Peoria, State of Illinois, and
particularly degcribed in said bill, their claim of title commencing with a patept from the United States to one John L. Bogardus, on a preemption established.by hin 'at the land office,
in Quincy, Illinois; said patent bearing date January 5, 1838;
a copy of which, and also of all the intermediate conveyances
from Bogardus to said complainants, are filed with said bill as
eihibits.
The bill also avers that said complainants have been for several years in possession of said land, and made valuable improvements thereon, amounting to over three thousand dollars.
The bill further sets forth that in the year 1848, Robert Forsyth commenced an action of ejectment in tLe said Circuit Court
of the United States against one James Kelsey and Joshua P.
Hotchkiss, then occipants of said premises, for recovery of a
portion of said premises, to which the sa 'Forsyth claimed title
under French claim number seven, in said village of Peori%
which claim covered the larger portion of the premises above
referred to; the said Forsyth claiming by virtue of an act of
Congress, approved May 15th, 1820, entitled "An act for the
relief of the inhabitants of the village of Peoria, in the State of
Illinois," and also by virtue of another act of Congress, approved
March 3,1823, entitled "An act to confirm certain claims to lots
in the village of Peoria, in the State of IlEnois," in pursuance
of which acts a patent issued on the 16th December, 1845, to
the legal representatives of one Thomas Torsyth, and- to their
1ieirs, a copy of which patent is filed as an exhibit with said bill.
The bill further alleges that said Robert Forsyth, derived all

DECEMBER T-ERM, 1853.
Forsyth v. Reynolds et al.

his title to said French claim by inheritance from the said Thomas Forsyth, the said Robert being one of the sons of the said
Thomas, and by purchase from the other heirs of the said
Thomas.
The bill further charges that the act of Congress of March 3,
1823, before referred to, excluded the right or claim of any settler in the village of Peoria, who, had, before the date of the said
act, received a confirmation of claims or a donation of any tract
of land or village lot from the United States, and that the grant
made by said act was only to such settler, provided he had not
received any prior grant, confirmation, or donation.
The bill further chrges that, by a regulation of the General
Land Office, the appellant, Forsyth, in August, 1845, filed an
affidavit with the Receiver of the Land Office, at Edwardsville,
to the effect that Thomas Forsyth had not feceived a prior confirmation or donation, and that said Thomas Forsyth was an
inhabitant or settler on lot seven, within the meaning of the act.
The bill further charges that the claim of thd said Robert Forsyth, made before the Register of the Land Office at Edwardsville, Illinois, on the 7th September, 1820, and the evidence in
support of said claim, show that the same was made by said
Forsyth in his own right, and not as the legal representative
of any other person.
The bill further charges that the said Thomas Forsyth had,
prior to the passage of the .act of the 3d March, 1823, received
from the United States donations and confirmations of two
claims in the Territory of Michigan, under an act of Congress
entitled "An act regulating grants of lands in the Territory of
Michigan," approved March 3, 1807, and that patents for said
claims, were dury issued to the said Thomnas Forsyth, in the
year 1811, certified copies of which patents are filed as exhibits
with said bill.
The bill, after propounding certain interrogatories, concludes
with a prayer for a perpetual injunction against the said Robert
Forsyth, restraining him from prosecuting his said action of
ejectment.
The patent, after the usual grant to Bogardus, concludes with
the following proviso: "subject, however, to the rights of any
and all persons claiming under the act of Congress of 3d March,
1823, entitled "An act to confirm certain claims to lots in the
village of Peoria, in the State of Illinois."
The patent recites Thomas Forsyth as claiming "under John
Baptist Maillet, and in right of his own occupancy and cultivation," and also recites that it appears from the certificate of the
register that "John Baptist Maillet was the inhabitant or settler
within the purview of said act of Congress of 1823," and that it

360

SUPREME COURT.
Forsyth v. Reynolds et al.

has appeared to the satisfaction of the iegister and receiver
that the said inhabitant or settler did not, prior to said act of
1823, receive a confirmation of claims or donation of any tract
of land or village lot from the United States, and that the legal
representatives of said Thomas Forsyth, u:ader" said Maillet, in
virtue of the confirmatory act aforesaid, are entitled to a patent."
On the 31st August, 1850, Forsyth filed his answer, admitting
the possession of the premises by complainants, as stated by
them, and that th6 value of the improvements was three thousand dollars, as stated by complainants, that the action of ejectment was brought, as stated in the bill, and that the complainants claimed-title under the Bogardus patent.
The answer further sets forth that respondent claims title to
the premises, by settlement and occupation, of John Baptist
Maillet, previous to the year 1790, and from that time to 1801,
and a sale of such possession and occupancy to John M. Coursell, and from him to Thomas Forsyth, and Forsyth's'occupancy,
under such purchases, from 1802 to 1812; also, by the act of
Congress, of May 15th, 1820, above referred to; also, by the
report'of Edward Coles, Register of the Land Office at Edwardsville, Illinois, in pursuance of said acts of Congress, said report,
properly authenticated, being filed with the answer; also, by the
act of Congress of March 3, 1823; also, by the survey of the vilage of Peoria, and of said premises, by the surveyor of public
lands in Illinois and Missouri, plats of which are filed with said
answer, marked "B" and " C;" also, by the patent to Thomas
Forsyth, exhibited with said bill, and by devise from said Thomas to Mary, the sister of respondent, and by death of said Mary
without issue, whereupon the premises descended to respondent
and his brother, and, by deed, to respondent from his brother, for
his interest, duly certified copies of the will of Thomas Forsyth,
and of the deed from respondent's brother to him, being filed as
exhibits with the answer, and the heirship of respondent and his
brother fully appearing in the proof.
The answer further states that respondent can produce no
deeds from Maillet to Coursoll, and from Coursoll to Thomas
Forsyth, and that it was the custom among, the French inhabitants, prior to 1812, to transfer the occupancy of real estate by
verbal contract and delivery of possession merely.
The answer further states that' respondent knows nothing of
th6 donations and confirinations mentioiedin said bill as having
been made to said Thomas Forsyni, in j'ihchizan, and never heard
of such except from said bill, or a short time before it was filed.
The answr further sets up that said Bogardus never occupied
said premises in his own right, but as -enant to one Jacques
Mette, and that the said Mette had, on t:c 4th day of March,

DECEMBER

TERM,- 1853.

361

Forsyth v. Reynolds et al.

1847, received a patent from the United Statei. for that portion
of the premises occupied by said Bogardus, and therefore said
Bogardus having never occupied said land in his own right, but
only as tenant to said Mette, the said premption claim of Bogardus, and the patent issued thereon to him, were void, of all
which the answer avers the complainant had notice.
The answer further sets up that even if it should appear in
proof that the Thomas Forsyth, referred to in said. bill, and
respondent's father were the same person, and that said Thomas,
Forsvth did receive the confirmations in Michigan, described in
said bill, nevertheless, said confirmations would not prevent the
said Thomas Forsyth from holding said premises in Peoria, under a proper construction of the act of 3d March, 1823.
Exhibits were filed with the answer and proof taken, showing
the defendant's title under Thomas Forsyth.
On the 7th June, 18-50, the complainants filed an amendment
to their bill, setting forth that the John Baptist Maillet mentioned in the patent to the legal representatives of Thomas Forsyth, died about the year 1801, and that neither the said Maillet
nor his legal representatives, nor any other person, except the
said Thomas Forsyth, ever presented any claim to said lot
seven before the officers of the land office at Edwardsville,
under the provisions of the acts of Congress before referred to.
On the 26th December, 1850, the respondents filed an answer
to the amendment, admitting the death of said Maillet, as
therein stated, but insisting that Thomas Forsyth was the legal
representative of said Maillet, and authorized to claim said premises before the land officers at Edwardsville, under the act of
Congress.
Much proof was taken,, by the complainants in the case, to
show the identity of the Thomas Forsyth who received the con.
firmations in Michigan, with The ThomAs Forsyth to whose
legal representatives the Peoria lot was patented- and who was
the father of Robert Forsyth, the defendant.
The defendants took the depositions of Lisette lette, Antoine
Smith, Joseph Aubuchon, Sarah Bouche, and others, by whom
it was clearly proven that about sixty years ago John Baptist
Maillet occupied the premises at Peoria; that he sold to Coursoll; that Coursoll sold to Thomas Forsyth, who continued to
occupy the lot; that these sales were made in the ordinary mode
of selling real estate among the French at Peoria at that time,
by verbal sale and delivery of possession.
The said Lisette Mette also proved that the said Robert Forsyth, defendant, was the son of said Thomas Forsyth, that she
was present tit his birth, which took place on the lot in contioversy.
VUL

V.

31

SUPREME COURT.
Forsyth v. meynolds et al.

It is also proven that Thomas Forsyth ied in 1833, leaving
three children, to wit: Thomas, Mary, and appellant, and that
Mary died without issue, leaving Thomas and appellant her sole
heirs. There is no controversy on this point.
The case was heard before the district judge, holding the Circuit Court at the December term, 1852, who decreed a perpetual injunction against the defendant Robert Forsyth, enjoining
him from prosecuting said action of ejectment, the decree being
on the ground that the confirmation in Mffichigan to Thomas
Forsyt4 rendered invalid the Peoria pate:at to his legal representatives, under the act of March 3, 1823.
From this decree Forsyth appealed to this cour
The cause was argued by MIr. Wlliams, for the appellant.
Briefs were also. filed upon that side by Ar. Lincoln and Mr.
Gamble. Mr. Chase argued the case for the appellee; and a
brief was also filed by Mr. _Purple.
The following.is the notice of the main point in the case,
taken from one of the briefs on the part of the appellant.
The objection made to the patent to Forsyth's representatives
is, that Forsyth in his life obtained two confirmations for lands
in Michigan Territory.
If the act of 1823 designed to exclude from the grant all
settlers who had previously received confirmations or donations
of lands or lots, in any part of the Territory of the United States,
such design was strangely singular. If it excludes all who had
received confirmations, it excludes them without reference to
the character of the title confirmed or the consideration for the
confirmation. It would place on the same footing, those who,
under -treaties made by the United States with foreign nations,
had obtained confirmations of titles which the United States
were bound to coffirm; ard those who had received from the
United States lots or lands as mere gratuities. It should not
receive a construction that would make it operate-so absurdly,
unless such construction is unavoidable. No similar act, with
such a restriction upon its operation, can be found among the
acts of Congress. It is apparent, from the history of the Michigan titles of Thomas Forsyth, which are employed in this case
to defeat the title to this lot in Peoria, that if they can have the
effect given to them by the Circuit Court, then a confirmation
of a Spanish grant in any part of Louisiana, made by the United
States under the clear obligation of the Louisiana treaty, would
equally defeat a title to a lot in Peoria claimed under the act of
1823.
The titles in the Michigan land. held by Thomas Forsyth,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

383

Forsyth v. Reynolds et Al.

were held under the second section of the act of March 3d, 1807,
(2 United States Stat. 438,) and they were founded upon possession and improvement of the property prior to July 1st, 1776.
The tracts are situated at Gross Point, in the Detroit district.
Now, the part of Michigan Territory, in which this land was
situated, had been occupied by the British authorities up to
June or July, 1796, and the possession and improvement of the
land which were to be the basis of the title under the act of
1807, were under British sanction. How then did such occupancy of property, undoubtedly within the territorial limits of the
United States, become the foundation of a grant by our government? The treaty of 1794, which provided for the evacuation
of all places within our territory occupied by the British troops,
required, in its second section, that traders and settlers should
be protected in the enjoyment of their property-, and should be
free to settle the same or retain it for their own benefit. This
obligation, assumed by the treaty, was recognized and discharged by the act of 1807, as far as that act extended, and the
titles thus acquired were not mere gratuities, but had for their
consideration all stipulations, in the treaty whioh our government regarded as beneficial to itself. In respect to their consideration, these titles stand upon the-same footing as any others
which have been acknowledged and confirmed by our governmelit, under any of the treaties by which we have acquired
territory, and by which we become bound to ackiowledge and
perfect the titles initiated under the former govenrment.
When an individual has acquired a title from our government
under the obligation of a treaty with a foreign nation, and therefore for a consideration which that foreign nation has given, we
would not expect our own government to make the'title, so acquired, a ground for excluding that citizen from any benefit conferred upon a class of citizens in a distant part of the country,
upon altogether different considerations, when he belongs to the
class intended to bebenefited, and has himself given the consideration for the benefit. It would appear to be an Unnatural
supposition that such was ever the design of our government.
Th6 language of the act of 1823, which excludes from the
benefit of the grant those who have obtained previous confirmations or donations, does not require such construction as would
exclude a person claiming property in \Iichigan under the act
of 1807. A title to property in Michigan under that act is not
a donation, for it rests upon the considerations that moved -two
sovereign powers to the conclusion of a treaty. The term "confirmation" is applied in different acts of Congress to tiles of
different origin. In the second section of the act, 3d Mfarch,
1807, in relation to and titles in Louisiana, it is used with

364

SUPREME COURT.
Forsyth v. Reynolds et al.

reference to, titles where there is no other foundation f~r the
claim than possession. 2 United. States Stat. 440. In the first
section of the act 13th June, 1812, (2 United States Stat. 748,) it
is applied in like manner to rights, titles, and claims, resting
only upon possession. There are very many acts in which the
term is used for the purpose of perfecting claims,.when, according to law, the person in possession of the property had no title
to it, or right to the possession, and therefore, in such case, the
confirmation is a mere gratuity.
The counsel for the appellees thus briefly noticed the point in
question.
The claims confirmed to Forsyth, at Gross Point, under the
act of the 3d March, 1807, are of the same class and character
as the one which he now seeks to enforce in Peoria. Settlement and occupation were necessary to establish the validity of
both. No other claim, equitable or legal, is advanced in favor
of either. In the one case, the right depends upon a settlement
prior to the 1st day of"January, 1813 ; in the other, upon a
settlement, and continued occupancy, from before the 1st day
of July, 1796, to the passage of the act of 3d March, 1807. In
neither case, at the time of the passage cf the acts, had the
settlers or occupants any title to the lands, derived from any
source which the Government of the United States were legally
or morally bound to respect. Both were gratuities - mere
boons; not at all allied to those cases where grants, concessions,
or donations have been made by the officers of foreign governments, under the authority of such governments, previous to the
time of the acquisition of the Territory Ln which they were
located by the United States.
It is apparent that the object and design of the reservation in
the act of 1823, was to prevent any one from becoming the recipient of the bounty of the government, in lands or lots, more
than once; and it is not confined in its operation to any special
location, or particular class of cases.
Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill. seeks to set aside a-patent to tae legal representatives of Thomas Forsyth, because he had obtained from the"
United States two other donations of land situate in Michigan,
previous to his donation of the village lot in Peoria; and it is
alleged that for this reason, his donation ccrtfificate and patent
were fraudulent, as against the complainants, and should not be
set up to their prejudice; and so the court below held.
Waiving, for the present, all consideration of the fact that
Forsyth claimed the village lot as assignee of Maillet, who had
not obtained any pre ous "confirmations, or donation;" and

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

365

Forsyth v. Reynolds et al.

secondly, that the patent to Bogardus was made subject to the
rights of all persons claiming lots in Peoria, under the act of
1823;
and and
placing
on the ground that the Circuit
Court did,
then the
how case
does the claim o relief stand ?
It was assumed by the court below, that Forsyth had received
as a donation, the two tracts of land in Michigan, within the
meaning of the act of 1823. That the act contemplated a donation we think is true.
A donation is a gift and gratuity, and not a grant of land
founded on a consideration, as where the government is bound
to make it by treaty stipulation conferring mutual benefits.
Thomas Forsyth and his family were Canadian settlers and
British subjects, residing on our side of the line, established by
the treaty of peace of 1783; they professed allegiance to Great
Britain, as all that population did at the date of Jay's treaty, in
1794, and up to July, 1796.
By the sixth article of the treaty of 1783, it was provided that
no one should suffer by reason that they took part with Great
Britain in the war, "in person or property."
As Great Britain held possession of the country in Michigan,
regardless of the treaty of 1783, a principal object of Jay's treaty
was to obtain actual possession, and to do this it was necessary
to secure the removal of the British troops, and an evacuation
of th&military pusts of that power from our side of the line.
The second article expressly provided for these objects, and
at the same time, and as matter of justice, it was declared, that
all settlers and traders, within the precincts or jurisdiction ofsaid posts shall continue to enjoy, unmolested, alltheir property
of every kind, and shall be protected therein by the American
government; that they may sell their lands and houses, or retain the property thereof at discretion; and that those who continue in the country for one year, after the date of the treaty,
shall be considered as having elected to become citizens of the
United States.
The 9th article is reciprocal and general, and further provides
that British subjects holding lands in the United States shall
continue to hold them, according to the nature and tenure of
their respective estates and titles therein, and that they may
sell or devise the same as if they were natives.
As, from 1783 to 1794, no title could, be made by Great Britain to lands on our side of the line, within the jurisdiction of
the posts, it was for mere settlers, to a great extent, that the 2d
article of the treaty provided: persons residing there usually
having no other evidence of title than possession, improvements,
and actual residence on the land.
To execute in good faith this part of the treaty, Congress pro-.
31*

366

SUPREME COURT.
Forsyth v. Reynolds et al.

vided, by the act of March 3, 1807, (sec. 2,) that to every person
or persons in possession at that date of any tract of land, in his
own right, in Michigan Territory, which tmct of land was settled, occupied, and improved by him or them prior to the 1st
day of July, 1796, or by some other person under whom he or
they hold or claimed the right of occupancy or possession thereof, and which occupancy or possession had been continued to
the time of passing that act, then the said tract or parcel of
laid thus possessed, occupied, and improved, should be granted,
and such occupant should be confirmed-in the title to the same
as an estate of inheritance in fee-simple.
The act of 1807 pointed out the mode by which those seeking
title 'under it should proceed. Forsyth's two claims were
brought strictly within the terms of the act; he got certificates
from the commissioners to that effect and in 1811 obtained his
patents.
The larger tract of 600 acres he claimed by a deed of conveyance from his father, William Forsyth; and the other tract for
336 arpens he held, as one of his father's heirs, by a deed of
partition. Both tracts front on lake St. Clair, arid were within
the jurisdiction of the British posts.
We suppose it is free from controversy, that these two tracts
of land were the pi operty of Thomas Forsyth, in 1807, by virtue
of the treaty of 1794, and just as plainly property as lands held
by a concession in Louisiana, under the Spanish government,
by force of the treaty of 1803.
In neither case could a donation be assumed to have been
made. As Forsyth obtained no donation in Michigan, he was
not within the prohibition prescribed, by the act of 1823, to
settlers in the village of Peoria, and, therefore, the decree below
must be reversed, and the bill dismissed, buit without prejudice
to either party, in prosecutiing and defending the suit at law,
sought to be enjoined by the bill, in regard to matters not hereby decided.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the District of
fllinois, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said Circuit Court, in this cause, be, and the
the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and that this cause be,
and the'same is hereby, remanded to the said Circuit Court,
with directions to dismiss the bill of complaint without prejudice to either party, in prosecating and defending the suit at
law, sought to be enjoined by the bill, in regard to matters not
bireby decided.

