DECEM1BER TERM,

1853.

451

Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

missioner, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the AttorneyGeneral, under the act of 1846, was final, and related back to
the original entries of the land. The circumstances under
which thb plaintiff located his warrants on a very valuable sugar
plantation, of which the defendant had long been in possession,
do not strongly recommend his equity. We affirom the judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana, with costs.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged, by this court, that the judgment of
the said Supreme Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, affirmed, with costs.

ERASTUS

F. WINSLOW, AND JA1ns HORNER,
TiE TROY IRON AND NAIL FACTORY.

CORNING, JoHN

APPELLANTS, V.

Where the re-pondent in a chancery suit in the Circuis Court took two grounds of
defenice, and the judge,' in giving his reasons for a decree dismissing the bill, upon
one ctf the two grounds, expressed his opinion that the respondent had not established
the other ground, he cannot appeal from this as a part of the decree.
The decree as in the respondent's favor, dismissing the bill with costs, and no appeal
lis from an opinion expresed by the judge upon the facts of the case, not affecting
the decree.
Mlorover, the decree complained of has already been argued before this court upon
the appeal of the other party, and both grounds of defence decided to be insufficient, and the decree roversed. There is, therefore, no such decree as that appealed
from.
Besid',, the court below has not acted upon the mandate and entered a final decree;
therefore there iLno final decree to appeal from.

THis was an appeal from the Cheuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York, sitting as a court
of equity.
It was a branch of the case of Troy Iron and Nail Factory v.
Corning et al. reported in 14 How. 193. The decree of the Circuit Court, now appealed from, is given at page 194. The bill
was originally filed by the Troy Iron and Nail Factory against
Corning et al. and the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, but this
court reversed that decree. By reference to page 194, 14 Howard, it will be seen, that the Circuit Court, in its decree, used the
following language, viz. "And it appearing to the said court
that the said Henry Burden was the first and original inventor

452

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

of the improvement on the spike machine in the bill of complaint mentioned, and for which a patent was issued," &c., &c.
Corning et al. being defendants in that suit, and succeeding
in having the bill dismissed, did not appeal from the decree;
but when the appeal was decided against them by this court
as reported in 14 Howard, they entered an appeal from that
part of the decree, which was as follows:
"And that so much or such parts of said decree as declares,
orders, adjudges, and decrees, as follows, to wit: - 'And it appearing to the said court, that the said Hen Burden was the
of the
improvement on the spike mainventor
original
st and
chine
in the
bill of
complaint
mentioned,
ar d for which a patent
date the 2d Sepbearing
Burden,
Henry
the
said
to
was .ssued
la int set forth; and that
m
tember, 184, as in s
said complainants have full and perfect title to the said patefit
for said improvements, by assignment from the said Henry
Burden, as is stated and set forth in the said bill of complaint,'
may be reversed, and that the appellants may be restored to
all things which they have lost by reason thereof.
Tis was the appeal now pending,-which Mr. Stevens moved
to dismiss, filing the following motion:
Supreme Court of the United States. - The Troy Iron 4- Nail
Factory, Appellees, v. Erastus Cornina', 7bhn F. Winslow, and
I
J7ames Horner, Appellants.
IN EQUITY.
State of New York, Northern District, City and County of
Albany, ss.
Samuel Stevens, of Albany, being duly sworn, says that he is
of counsel and solicitor for the Troy Iron & Nail Factory, appellees in this court, and one of the solicitors and counsel in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of
New York -for the complainant.
That upon the hearing-of the said cause inthe Circuit Court
of the United States for the Northern District of New York,
upon pleadings and proofs, a decree therein was pronounced by
the said court, which was duly entered by 1:he clerk of the said
court on the fourth (4th) day of September, 1850, which is in the
words and figures following:
At a special term of the Circuit Court of the United. States
for the Northern District of New York, in equity, held at the
city of Utica in said District on the fourth day of September,
one thousand eight hundred and fifty.
Present, the Honorable Samuel Nelson, Justice.

DECEMBER

TERM, 1853.

453

Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

The Troy ron and Nail Factory, v. Erastus Coring,John. ..
Winslow, and James Homer.
IN EQUITY.

This cause having been heretofore brought to a hearing upon
the pleadings and proofs, and counsel for the respective parties,
having been heard and due deliberation thereupon had, and it
appearing to the said court that the said Henry Burden was the
first and original inventor of the improvement on the spike ma-.
chine in the bill of complaint mentioned, and for which a patent
was issued to the said Henry Burden, bearing date the 2d S.eptember, 1840, as in said bill of complaint set forth, and that the
said complainants have a full and perfect title to the said patents for said improvements by assignment from the said Henry.
Burden, as is stated and set forth in the said bill of complaint.
But it also :further appearing to the court, on the pleadings and
proofs, that the instrument in writing bearing date the 14th October, 1845, stated and set forth 'An the said bill of complaint, and
also in the answer of the said defendants thereto, entered into
upon a settlement and compromise of certain conflicting claims
between the said parties, and among others of mutual conflicting
claims to the improvements in the spike machine, in said bill
mentioned, and when said instrument was executed by the said
Henry Burden of the one part, and the said defendants of the
other, the said Henry Burden at the time being the patentee
and legal owner of the said improvements, and fully authorized
to settle and adjust the said conflicting claims, did, in legal
effect and by just construction, impart and authorize and convey a right to the defendants to use the said improvements in
the manufacture of the hook-headed spike, without limitation as
to the number of machines so by them to be used, or as to the
place or district in which to be used.
Therefore it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said
bill of complaint be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, with
costs to be taxed, and that the defendants have execution therefor.
That on the twenty-second day of October, 1850, the said
complainant appealed from the said decree to this court, which
appeal was duly allowed by Mvfr. Justice Nelson, one of the justices of said court, and that afterwards, to wit, in the December
term of this court, 1852, the said cause upon the said appeal
and upon the record returned to this court by the said clerk of
the said Circuit Court of the United States for said Northern
District, came on to be heard and was argued, whereupon this
court pronounced a decree in the words and figures following.
to wit:

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

United States -of Amdrica, ss.
The President of the United States of America to the Honorable the Judges of the Circuit Court of the Unitea States for
the Northern District of New York;
Greeting: Whereas lately in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York, before you or
some of you, in a cause between .he Troy Iron and Nail Factory, complainants, and Erastus Corning, John F. Vinslow,
and James Homer, defendants, in chancery, the decree of the
said Circuit Court was in the following words, to wit:
Therefore, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the said
bill of complaint be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, with costs
to be taxed, and that the defendants have ex cution therefor, as by
the inspection of the transcript of the record of the said Circuit
Court, which was brought into the Supreme Court of the United
States by virtue of an appeal, agreeably to the act of Congress,
in such case made and provided, fully and at hu ge appear.
And whereas in the present term of Decembei, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two, the said
cause came on to be heard before the said Supreme Court on
the said transcript of the record, and was argued by counsel, on
consideration whereof it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
the cause be, and the same is hereby, reversed, with costs, and
that the said complainants recover against the said defendants,
three hundred and sixty dollars and forty-two cents for their
costs herein expended and have execution -herefor.
And it is further ordered that this cause be and the same is
hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court with instructions to
enjoin the defendants perpetuaIly from using the improved machinery with the bending lever for making hook and brad-headed
spike, patented to Henry Burden, the 2d September, 1840, and
assigned to the complainants, as set forth *n complainants' bill,
and to enter a decree in favor of the complainants for the use
and profits thereof, upon an account to be stated by a master
under the direction of the said Circuit Court, as is prayed for by
the complainants, and for such further proceedings to be had
therein, in conformity to the opinion of this court, as to law and
justice may appertain. January 18.
You therefore are hereby commanded that such execution
andfurther proceedings be had in said cause, in conformity to
the opinion and decree of this court, as according to right and
justice and the laws of the United States ought to be had, the
said appeal notwithstanding.

Witness, the Honorable

ROGER

B.

TANEY,

Chief Justice of

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

455

Corning et a. v. The Troy Iron and Nall Factory.

said Supreme Court, the first Mond. y of December in the year
of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and fifty-two. [L. s.]
And deponent further says that afterwards and on the 28th
day of June, 1853, the said decree of this court was, by the said
Circuit Court for said Northern District of New York, made
the decree of said Circuit Court, which last-mentioned decree
is in the words and flguresfollowiing, to wit:
At a term of the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of New York, held at the court-house in the
village of Canandaigua, on the 28th day of June, 1853.
Present: The Honorable Samuel Nelson, Nathanf K. Hall,
Judges.
The Troy ron and Nail Factors v. ,rastus Coming, lames
Homer, and John H Winslow.
IN EQUITY.
The above named, the Troy Iron and Nail Factory, the complainants in the above entitled suit, having duly appealed to the
Supreme Court of the United States from that part of the decree made in this suit, which dismissed the bill of complaint
herein with cost to be taxed, and the said Supreme Court of
the United States having' duly heard the said appeal at the
December term, 1852, upon the transcript of the iecord, and
having reversed the said decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of New York, with costs,
and having ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said complainants recover against the said defendants three hundred and
sixfy dollars and forty-two cents for their cost in said Supreme
Court and that they have execution therefor: the said Supreme
Court having remanded the said cause to the said Circuit Court
witl; instructions to enjoin the defendants perpetually from using the improved machinery with the bending lever for making
hook or brad-headed spikes, patented to Henry Burden the 2d
September, 1840, and assigned or transferred to the complainants, as set forth in complainants' bill, and to enter a decree in
favor of the complainants for the use and profits thereof, upon
an account to be stated by a master under the direction of the
said Circuit Court, as is prayed for by the said complainants in
their bill of complaint, and for such further proceedings to be
had thereon, in conformity to the opinion and decree of the said
Supreme Court 'as to law and justice may appertain, which
order, decree, and instructions appear to this court by the mandate of the said Supreme Court:
Now, therefore, on filing the said nndate, and in pursuance

456

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron anZ. Nail Factory.

thereof, and after hearing r. Stevens, for thae said complainants,
and Messrs. Seymour and Seward, for the defendants, it is
ordered, adjudged, and decreed, and this court, by virtue of the
power and authority therein vested, and in obedience to the
said mandate i doth order, adjudge, and decree, that the instrument in writing, bearing date the 14th day of October,
1845, stated and set forth in the pleadings in this cause, executed by the said Henry Burden and the said defendants, did
not, in legal effect or otherwise, or by just construction, license,
impart, authorize, or convey a right to the said defendants to
use the said improvements in the manufacture of the hookheaded spikes, by the machinery mentioned in the said bill of
complaint, or any rights secured to the said Henry Burden by
the said letters-patent, and assigned or transferred to the said
complainants, as aforesaid.
And it is further adjudged and decreed, that the said defendants have infringed and violated the said patent, so granted to
the said iHenry Burden, as aforesaid, by making and vending
the said hook-headed spikes by the said rrachinery patented to
the said Burden on 2d September, as aforesaid.
And it is further adjudged and decreed, that the said defend.
ants do account to the said complainants for the damages or
use and profits, in consequence of the said infringements by the
said defendants.
And it is further adjudged and decreed, t:aat an account of the
damages, or use and profits, be taken and stated by Marcus T.
Reynolds, Esq., counsellor at law, as masz:er of this court, pro
hac vice, and that the defendants atend before the said master,
from time to time, under the direction of the said master, and
that the said complainants may. examine the said defendants
under oath as to the several matters pending on the said reference, and that the said defendants produce before the said
master, upon oath, all such deeds, books, papers, and writingi,
as the said master shall direct, in their custody or under their
control, relating to said matters, which shEdl be pending before
said master.
And it is further ordered and decreed, that a perpetual injunction issue out of and under the seal of this court, against the
said defendants, commanding them, their attorneys, agents, and
workmen, to desist and refrain from making, using, or vending
any machine containing the new and useful improvement for
which letters-patent were granted to the said Henry Burden on
the second day of September, 1840, and-from in any manner
infringing or violating
patent.any of the rights or privileges gran.ed or
secured by said
And it is further ordered, that the said complainants recover

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

457

Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

of the said defendants the damages or use and profits -which
shall be reported by the said master, and that upon the confirmation of his report or decree, be entered against the defendants
therefor, and also for the costs of the complainants in this suit
in this court, ana that the said complainants have execution
therefor and for the costs in the said Supreme Court.
And it is further ordered and decreed, that such other proceedings be had herein, in conformity to the opinion of the said
Supreme Court, as to law and justice may appertain, and that
the parties and master may apply, upon due notice, to this
court, upon the foot of this decree, for such other and further
orders, instructions, and directions, as may be necessary.
(A copy.)
A. A. BoyE, Clerk.
And deponent further says, that on the fifth day of October,
1853, the solicitor for the defendants served upon Henry Burden, the president of the said complainants, a petition of appeal
and a citation thereon, in the words and figures following:
To the Supreme Court of the United States of America:.
The petition of Erastus Corning, John F. Winslow, and
James Horner, respectfully represents, that a decree was lately
made in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District of New York, in equity, bearing date the fourth
day of September, 1850, in a certain cause pending in said
court, wherein The Troy Iron and Nail Factory were complain.
ants, and your petitioners were defendants, certain parts of
which decree, as hereinafter specified, are, as your petitioners
are advised, erroneous, and ought to be reversed.
And your petitioners further show, that the matters in dispute in said cause, exclusive of costs, exceed the sum of two
thousand dollars. Whereupon your petitioners pray that the
said decree, together with the pleadings, depositions, and all
other proceedings in said cause, may be sent to the said Supreme Court of the United States and filed therein on the firba.
Monday of December next, and that so much or such parts of
said decree as declares, orders, adjudges, and decrees as follows,
to wit: "And it appearing to the said court that the said Henry
Burden was the first and original inventor of the improvement
on the spike machine in the bill of complaint mentioned, and
for which a patent was issued to the said Henry Burden, bearing date the 2d September, 1840, as in said bill of complaint
set forth, and that the said complainants have a full and perfect
title to the said patent for said ihnprovements, by assignment
from the said Henry Burden, as is stated and set forth in the
VOL. XV.

39

458

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

said bill of complaint, may be reversed, and that the appellants
may be restored to all things which they have lost by reason
thereof.
D&ma.L L. SEYMO,
Solwicitorfor Appellants.
Dated Troy, Sept. 8, 1853.
By the Honorable Samuel Nelson, one of the .Tudes of the Circuit

Court of the United States for the Northern District of New
York.
Whereas, Erastus Coming, John F. Winslow, and James
Homer, lately ffied in the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Northern District of New York, a petition of appeal
directed to the Supreme Court of the United States of America,
stating that a decree was lately made in. the Circuit Court-of
the United States for the Nofthem District of New York in
Equity, bearing date the 4th day of September, 1850, in a certain cause therein pending, wherein 'the Troy Iron and Nail
Factory were complainants, and Erastus Corning, John F.
Winslow, and James Homer, were defendants, certain parts of
which said decree are alleged to be erroneous and ought to be
reversed, and further, stating that the maiters in dispute in said
cause, exclusive of costs, exceeded in value the sum of two tOousand dollars;
And whereas the said Erastus Cornmig, John F. Winslow,
and James Homer, by their said petition prayed that the said
decree, togetber with the pleadings, depositions, and all other proceedings in said cause may be sent to the said Supreme Court
of the United States, and filed therein on the first Monday of
December next, and that the said parts of said decree may be
reversed, and the said appellants restorei to all things which
they have lost by reason thereof;
You are therefore hereby cited to appear before the said Supreme Court of the United States at the City of Washington,
on the first Monday of December next, to do and receive what
may appertain to justice to be done in the premises.
Given under my hand, in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of New York, the 23d day of

September, 1853.

S. NELSON.

And deponent further says, that he has been informed and
believes that the record and proceedings in said appeal have
been duly filed with the clerk of this cort.
SAMUEL. STsvE.Ns.

Sworn before me this 16th day of November, 1853.
LEoNAmD

En',

Master and Examiner in tAe Circuit court of h e
Northern Districtof New York

DFOEMBER TERM, 1853.

459

Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and :Nail Factory.

Supreme Court of the United States.
The Troy Irrn and 1Nail Factoryv. Erastus Corning et al.
IN EQUITY.

SIR,-Be pleased to take notice that upon the pleadings, papers, and proceedings in this cause in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Northern District of New York, and upon
the record, and proceedings returned to this court by the clerk
of said Circuit Court on the appeal by the complainant to this
court, and upon the affidavit hereto annexed, and copy of whch
is herewith served upon you,- this honorable court will be
moved at the next term thereof to be held at the Capitol, at the
City of Washington, District of Columbia, on the first Monday
of December next, at the opening of the court on that day, *or
as soon thereafter as counsel can be heard for a rule or order
dismissing the appeal of the defendants to this court of or such
other and further rule or order as may be agreeable to equity.
Albany, November 9th, 1853.
SAMUEL STEVENS, Solicitor for Complainants.
To D. L. SEYMOUR, Defendants' Attorney.
Upon this motion to dismiss the appeal, the cause was taken
up.
It was argued by .3i. Stevens and M1r. .Tohnson, for the motion,
and .ilr.Seymour and 31r. Seward against it.
111r. Stevens, in support of the motion to dismiss, made the following points:
The only ordering part of the decree-the only judgment
pronounced by the court below-was a decree dismissing the
complainants' bill, with costs; from that decree the complainants duly appealed to this court, which decree was reversed, and
a decree ordered according to the prayer of the bill, which was
duly entered in the Circuit Court, before the defendants made
the present appeal.
Preceding the ordering part of tne decree, certain recitals
were made by the Circuit Court, showing the reasons or
grounds upon which that court pronounced the ordering part
of the decree.
It is from the recitals preceding tne decree in this cause, And
not from the decree, that this appeal has been made.
The complainants, the respondents to this appeal, now move
to quash or dismiss it upoli the following grounds:

460

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

First. This court has appellate jurisdiction only upon appeals
from final judgments or decrees of the Circuit Court. I United
States Statutes at Large, p. 84, ยง 22.
The ordering part of a decree is the only final decree or judgment of the court.
The preliminary recitals preceding the ordering part of the
decree, is no part of the decree or judgment of the court.
Such recitals are simply the reasons or grounds of the decree.
Those reasons or grounds of the decree cannot be appealed
from. A party might as well claim to appeal from the opinion
of the court, as from a synopsis of the opinion which constitutes
the recitals upon which the ordering part of the decree is based.
The only decree in this case was a decree dismissing the
complainants' bill, with costs. Seaton's Forms of Decrees,
pp. 8, 9.
From the whole of that decree the complainant appealed, the
whole of which decree was reversed by this court at its last term,
an4l the Circuit Court was ordered by the mandate of this court
to enter a decree in said cause, according to the prayer of complainant's bill, and such decree was entered. by the said Circuit
Court, at the June term thereof, 1853, in compliance with said
mandate of this court.
The defendants cannot have that decree of this court reviewed
or altered by an attempt to appeal from the reasons upon which
the Circuit Court pronounced its decree.
Second. But if the recitals preceding the ordering part of the
decree of the Circuit Court could be appealad from, the defendants should have brought a cross appeal, which would be heard
by this court with, and at the same time of, the original appeal,
and one decree only would be pronounced by the .appellate
court. 1 Barbour's Ch. Prac. 397; Uguart's Prac. in House of
Lords on Appeals and Writs of Error, pp. 837-40; Palmer's
Prac. in House of Lords on Appeals and Writs of Error, p. 33;
Hawley v. James, 16 Wend. 85-274; Mapes v. Coffin, 5 Paige's
Rep. 296.
A party cannot have a decree of the Circuit Court reviewed
by this court two, three, or more times, by appealing from dif.
ferent parts of the decree at different times. Every ground
which he might have urged on the hearing of the first appeal,
vsifl be deemed to have been made by him, or if not made,
to have been abandoned. The Santa -Maria, 10 Wheat. Rep.
443-4,; Ex parte Sibbald, 12 Peters's Rep. 488.
This attempt at an appeal by the defendants from the reasons
of the decree, is analogous to an application to this court for a
rehearing upon the original appeal, which is never granted after
the cause has been remitted to the Circuit Court. McArthur
v. Browder 4 Wheat. Rep. 488.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

461.

Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

Third. The decree of the Circuit Court entered in this cause
on the 4th September, 1850, was reversed by this court at its
December term, 1852, and the proceedings were remitted to the
Circuit Court, and that court, at its June term, 1853, entered a
new decree, in pursuance of, and in compliance with, the mandate of this court. Therefore, on the 5th of October, 1853, the
date of defendants' present appeal, there was no -such decree of
the Circuit Court as that entered by said court, of the 4th of
September, 1850, from parts of which the defendants claim to
appeal.
Fourth. The only decree existing in the Circuit Court in this
cause, since its June term, 1853, is an interlocutory, and not a
final decree, and cannot be appealed from. Kane v. Whittick,
8 Wend. Rep. 219; 9 Peters's Rep. 1; 15 Id. 287.
Appeals from the Circuit Court to this court can only be from
final decrees or judgments. 1 United States Statutes at Large,
p. 84, ยง 22.
MAr. Seymour and Mir. eward opposed the motion to dismiss
the appeal, upon the following grounds:I The decree of the Circuit Court, made on 4th September,
1850, disposed of the whole cause on the merits, and was, therefore, a final decree, and an appeal may -be taken from it. See
act of Congress, March 3, 1803. By this act, an appeal to the
Supreme Court is given "from all final judgments or decrees
rendered, or to be rendered, in any Circuit Court." See also
act 24th February, 1789; the San Pedro, 2 Wheaton, 132; see
act of 1819, (3 United States Statutes at Large, p. 4 8 1, chap. 19) ;
see Patent act of 1836, ยง 17, (5 United States Statutes at Large,
p. 124); Laws .United States Courts, 117, 118, 119. This last
act enlarges the right of appeal in patent cases. It gives the
court a discretion-to allow the appeal in cases other than those
already provided, for by law. The appeals authorized by this
law are only allowed from a final decree in United States courts.
Patterson v. Gaines and others, 6 Howard, 585.
A decree dismissing a bill is a final decree. 2 Daniel's
Chancery Pleading and Practice, Perkins's ed. pp. 1199, 1200;
McCollum v. Eager, 2 Howard, 64.
The decree, therefore, of the Circuit Court, in this cause, may
be appealed from, under the acts of Congress aforesaid.
II This decree consists of three parts: the introductory part;
the part declaring the rights of the parties, as this does of the
eomplainar Is; and another part ordering or directing a thing or
things to be done. See 2 Daniel's Chancery Pleading and
Tractice, Perlins's ed. pp. 1210 to 1214, as to the forms of decrees. The rules of this court do not allow of recital. See rule

462

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

85; so, too, Stat. 3 and 4 William IV., cited in 2 Daniel's Pr.
1212; Seaton's Decrees, 159. It declares the right of complainants to the patent-right, and the right of the defendants to
use the patented machinery, under the agreement of October
14, 1845.
This decree proceeds and adjudges and determines two important matters of defence which had been distinctly set up in
the pleadings, and upon which much testimony had been given,
to vit:
First. "That the said Henry Burden was the first and original
inventor of the improvement on the spike machine in the bill of
complaint, mentiond, and for which a patent was issued to the
said Henry Burden, bearing date the 2d day of September, 1840,
as is in said bill of complaint set forth."
Second. " That the said complainants have a full and perfect
title to the said patents for said improvements, by assignment
from the said Henry Burden, as is stated and set forth in the
said bill of complaint."
These portions of the decree are final decisions on the merits
of the case, giving to the complainants the full and complete
title to the machinery; a vital point, which, if decided for the
defendants, decides the whole case for them; no matter what
maybe the decision as to the agreement o: October 14, 1845.
An appeal will lie from the decision of the Court, upon either
or both of these contested points. 3 Daniel's Ch. Pr. 1606.
III. Even if the adjudication contained in the decree of the
originality of the invention in question, and of the complainants' title to the patent, need not have seen inserted in the
decree, yet they were inserted by the Circuit Court, upon the
special motion of the com plainants, and against the opposition
of the defendants, who should therefore not be prejudiced by it.
See affidavits read on this motion by the defendants.
IV. The appeal by the complainants brought up only the
questions decided to their prejudice. Buckingham v. McLean,
13 Howard, 150, 151.
The equity practice of the Supreme Court of the United
States is regulated by the laws of the U ted States, the rules
of the court, and in the absence of any provision in them applicable to a given case, by the practice of the English High Court
of Chancery. Rule 90, Supreme Court. The State of Rhode
Island v. The State of Massachusetts, 14 Peters, 210; Bin v.
Heath, 12 Howard, 168; Dorsey v. Packwood, 12 Howard, 126.
By the practice, both of the American and the English Courts
of Chancery, this is a proper case for a cross appeal to be brought
by defendants. 1 Turner and Venable's Chancery Practice,
733, edit. 1835; 2 Smith's Chancery Practice, p. 31, edit. 1837;

DEC,MBER TERM, 1853.

463

Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

3 Daniel's Ch. Practice, 1685, 1688, 1606; Blackburn v. Jepson,
2 Vesey & B. 059; Hawley v. James, 16 Wendell's R. 61, 85;
Mapes v. Coffin, 5 Paige, 296; Clowes v. Dickinson, 8 Cow.
830.
V. The present is the proper time to bring it.
1. The decree of the Circuit Court being final, the laws of
March 3, 1803, and of 1819 and 183B, give an unrestricted and
unqualified right of appeal to either party for five years.
2. Because an appeal now taken from the latter decree would
bring up for review only the proceedings subsequent to the
mandate. The Santa Maria, 10 Wheat. 31; Fx parte Sibbald,
12 Pet. 488.
There is no rule of the Supreme Court adopting the rules of
the House of Lords.
V1 The decision of this court, on the appeal of the complainants, affects only the part of the decree complained of by
them, to wit, the construction of the agieement of October 14,
1845; and, while the declaratory parts of the decree of the
Circuit Court, in favor of the complainants, remain, unreversed,
the right to sustain their bill for a perpetual injunctioni and to
recover damages, followed as a consequence, from the construction given by this court to the agreement of October 14, 1845.
VII. The defendants are entitled to an appeal at some time
within five years from the decision of the Circuit Court against
them, on the validity of the patent in question. Now, if the
complainants' pition is tue, that nothing is appealed from
but the order directing the bill to be dismissed, these defendantf
cannot
neverwas
haveinhad,
opportunity
and a party
to appeal
at
have
not now,that
anddecree
theiranfavor,
all; because
appeal from a decree in his own favor.
It is a mere subtlety to say that because the decree, deciding,
the validity of the patent and the title of the complainants in"
their favor, ordered no relief; but, on the contrary, for a difcrthat, therefore,
ent reason, directed their bill to be dismissed,
the decision of the validity of the patent and the title of the
complainants is mere recital, and not a substantial part of the
decree, and proper subject of an appeal. The test is this : Are
the validity of the patent and the title of the complainants
Circuit Court ?
now open to dispute by teldefent thein
Certainly, they are not. But, according to the complainante ,
those points are not open to appeal; so that a decision on a
vital point against the defendants is not the subject of appeal
at alL
Again. If what the complainants allege is correct, that there
is no decree now remaining in the court below but the decree.
which .is entered on the mandate; and. also, that, on appeal

464

SUPREME

COURT.

Corrning et al. v. The Troy Iron an i Nail Factory.

from that decree so entered on the mandate, the party aggrieved
can review only the proceedings subsequent to that decree, then
it results that th. defendants can have no appeal at all from a
decree in which the material issue upon the invention is found
against them by the court below.
Again. In answer to this, it is said that, on the appeal
brought by the complainants upon the :issue as to a license
found against them, the defendants were at liberty to fall back,
andI contest the issue of the invention found against them; but,
in reply, we say that, by the rules of courts of equity, as well
as by statute, it is optional to the defendants whether they will
so fall back, and contest the issue found against them on the
hearing of the appeal of the complainants,. or whether they will
bring their own distinct appeal.
VIIL The respondents' motion should be denied.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The Troy Iron and Nail Factory filed their bill in the court
below, claiming to be assignees of a patent granted to Henry
Burden, for a "new and useful improvement in the machinery
for manufacturing wrought nails or spikes." The bill charges,
that the appellants, Corning & Company:, have infringed their
patent, and prays for an injunction and an account of -profitb,
&c. The answer of the respondents below took defence on two
grounds - first, that Burden was not the first and original inventor of the machine patented; and, secondly, that the respondents used their machine under a license from the patentee. The
court below sustained the defence on the latter ground, and entered the following decree: "Therefore, it is. ordered, adjudged,
and decreed, that the said bill of complaint is her-by dismissed,
with costs to be taxed, and that the defendant have execution
therefor2'
The ease is now before us on a motion to dismiss the ,appeal
Looking at the case as exhibited to us by the record, it appears
to be an appeal by respondents from a decree dismissing the
complainant's bill with costs. It often happens that a court
may decree in favor of a complainant, bu.t not to the extent
prayed for in his bill, and he may have just; cause of appeal on
that account. But the prayer of the respondent's answer is,
that " he be hence dismissed, with his reasonable costs and
charges, on this behalf most wrongfully sustained." And having such a decree on the present case, he cannot have a more
favorable one.
It is true that the petition for the appeal in this case prays
only, ' that so much of such parts of said decree, as .declares,
orders, adjudges, and decrees as follows, to wit " And it appear-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

465

Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Nail Factory.

ing to the said court that the said Henry Burden was the first
inventor of the improvement, &c., may be reversed, and that the
appellants may be restored to all things which they have lost by
reason thereof."
But the matter complained of forms no part of the decree of
the court below.
It shows only, that the judge, in reciting the inducement or
reasons for entering a decree in favor of the respondents below,
was of opinion that they were entitled to such decree, because
they had succeeded in establishing one only of the two defenses
alleged in their answer. It is the opinion of the court, on a
question of fact involved in the 6ase, but not affecting the decree. If the decree be cortect, the party in whose favor it is
given, has no right to complain; yet his appeal prays that it
",may be reversed, and the appellants restored to all things
which they have lost by reason thereof;" and the record shows
they have lost nothing.
If the decree be reversed, according to the prayer of the appellants, the court must necessarily enter a decree for the complainants below. This would, probably, not meet the views of
the appellants. They have put themselves in the anomalous
position either of asking for the affirmance of the decree from
which they have appealed, or of requesting this court to reverse
a decree in their favor, and send back the record ti the court
below, with directions to enter the very same decree, but to
assign other reasons for it. The cout were not bound to give
any reasons for their decree. The law gives the party aggrieved an appeal from a final decree of an inferior court.
But it does not-give the party -who is not aggrieved an appeal
from a decree in his favor because the judge has given no reasons, or recited insufficient ones for a judgment admitted by
the appellant to be correct.
There is a part of the history of this case which does not
appear on the record; but, being known to the court, and assumed by counsel on both sides to, make part of the case, it
will be necessary to notice the case under that aspect.
The deciee in favor of the appellants, which is now appealed
from, has already been before this court on an appeal by the
complainant below. The parties were then fully heard, the decree of the Circuit Court reversed, and the case remanded for
farther proceedings. It is reported in 14 Howard, 194. It appears,
therefore, that there is no such decree as that which is now
complained of. The decree of the Circuit Court has been entirely annulled, reversed, and set aside by this court. Before
that was done, the appellants. had a full hearing on every point
of defence set up in their answer. The court below had de-

SUPREME COURT.
Corning et al. v. The Troy Iron and Wail Factory.

cided that the defendant had a good defence under his plea of
license, but not under the Flea that Burden was not the first in.
ventor of the patented machine. This court has decided, that
the appellant's defence was insufficient on both pleas. The
language of the court is, (14 How. 208,) "That the defendants
have failed to prove that Burden was not such first inventor;
and, in our opinion, the evidence given by them on that point
rather serves to establish the originality of the invention than
to impair it The appellants stand upon tLe patent, as the first
which was granted for the bending lever; and they may well
do so, until other evidence than that in this :record shall be given
to disprove its originality."
It is plain, therefore, that, under the guise of an appeal from
the decree of the Circuit Court, this is an appeal, in fact, from
the decision of this court. For there is no other decree existing
in the case except the decree of this court. There must be an
end of litigation some time. To allow a second appeal to a
'court of last resoit, on the same questions which were open
to dispute on the first, would lead to endless litigation. It is
said by this court, in Martin v. Hunter, (1 Wheat. 355,) "A
final judgment of the court is conclusive upon the rights which
it decides, and no' statute has provided any process by which
this court can revise its judgment." See, also, Sibbald v.
United. States, 12 Pet. 488. It follows, therefdre, that, when a
complainant has a decree in his favor, but not to the extent
prayed for in his bill, and the respondent appeals; if the complainant desires a more favorable decree, he must enter a cross
appeal, that, when the decree comes before the appellate court,
he may be heard. For, when the decree is either affirmed or
reversed by the appellate court, it becomes the decree of that
court, and cannot be the subject of another appeal. But, in
this case, where the decree of the court below dismissed the
bill, no appeal by the respondent was necessary. He had a
full opportunity to urge every defence set up in his answer.
The printed arguments show that "the defence, for want of ori.
ginality in the patent, was relied upon as a ground for affirming
the decree of the court below, and, as we 13ave already shown,
was distinctly passed upon and overruled by this court.
A second appeal lies only when the couri; below, in carrying
out the mandate of this court, is alleged to have committed an
error. But, on an appeal fiom the mandate, it is well settled,
that nothing is before the court but the proceedings subsequent
,to the mandate. Whatever was formerly before the court, and
was disposed of by its decree, is considered as finally disposed
of. Seb Himely v. Rose, 5 Cranch, 313; Canter v. The Ocean
Insurance Company, 1 Peters, 511; The Santa Maria, 10
Wheat. 431; Rice v. Wheatly, 9 Dana, 272,

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

467

United States v. Dawson et al.

Moreover, as it is admitted that the court below have not yet
acted upon the mandate of this court, and entered a final decree in pursuance thereof, there is no final decree, from which
only an appeal car be taken. See the Palmyra, 10 Wheat.
502; Chace v. Vasquez, 11 Id. 429.
There are, therefore, three conclusive reasons for dismissing
the present appeal:
1. The appellants have already been heard in this court on a
former appeal.
2. There is no such decree as that from which the appeal purports to be taken.
3. There is no final decree in the case, from which an appeal
can be taken.
The appeal is therefore dismissed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northem District of New York, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and
decreed by this court, that this cause be, and the same is hereby, dismissed, with costs.

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS, v. JAm s
JonrN R. BAYLOR.

L. DAwsoN, AND

In June, 1844, Congress passed an act, by virtue of which the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Arkansas, was vested with power to try offences
cermitted within the Indian country.
In July, 1844, it was alleged that a murder was committed in that country.
In Apr l, 1845, an indictment was found by a grand jury, in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Arkansas, against a person charged with committing the murder.
In March, 1851, Congress passed an act erecting nine of the Western counties and
the Indian country into a new judicial district, directing the judge to hold two
terms there, and giving him jurisdiction of all causes, civil or criminal, except appeals and writs of error, which are cognizable before a Circuit Court of the United
States.
The residue of the State remained a judicial district to be styled the Eastern District
of Arkansas.
This act of Congress did not take away the power and jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District tr try the indictment pending.

Tns case came up from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Arkansas, upon a certificate
of division in opinion between the judges thereof.

