DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

539

Adams v. Otterback.

JA.ms AIAMS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,-V. PHILIP OTTERBACK.
Nhere a note was given in the District of Columbia ot the llth of Iarch, payable
sixtv days after date, and notice of its non-paymeni was given to the indorser on
the 15th of Mav, (being Monday,) the notice was not in timeAlthough evidence was given that since 1846, the bank which was the holder of the
note, had changed the prexisting custom, and had held the paper until the fourth
day of grace, giving notice to the indorser on Monday, when the note fell due on
Sunday. This was not sufficient to establish an usage.
An usage, to be binding, must be general, as to place, and not confined to a particular
bank and, in order to be obligatory must have been acquiesced in, and become notorious.

THIs case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden
in and for the county of Washington.
It was an action of assumpsit brought by Adams, the plaintiff in error, upon a promissory note drawn by Haw, Yellott &
Company, in favor of Philip Otterback, the defendant in error,
and discounted by the Bank of Washington. The proceeds of
the discounted note were paid by the bank upon the check of
Otterback. After the note had been protested for non-payment,
and notice of protest had been given to the indorser, it was assigned to Adams, the plaintiff in error.
On the trial of the cause the plaintiff gave in evidence the
note, the handwriting of drawers and indorserbeing admitted,
and proved that the note was discounted on the 11th of larch,
184, the day of its date, and the proceeds paid on defendant's
check; that the note (which was payable at sixty days) was
unpaid at maturity, and was delivered to George Sweeny, a
notary, on Monday, the 15th day of May, 1848, after 3 o'clock,
who on that day demanded payment, which was refused, and
thereupon, on the same day, he delivered a notice for the in.
dorser at his dwelling.
The plaintiff also gave in evidence by. the teller and bookkeeper of the bank, that after the decision of the case of Cookendorfer v. Preston, and about two years prior to the date of the
note in controversy, the bank changed the custom which had
previously prevailed in regard to the demand and protest of
negotiable discounted notes held by the bank, and that in all
cases of discount they had up to that time held the paper until
the fourth day of grace; and by the change, if that fourth day
of grace happened to fall on Sunday, it became the custom of
the bank to retain them till Monday, and on that day deliver
the same to the notary to demand payment and give notice.
And on cross-examination it appeared that only four instances
of practice under this custom were shown.

540

S UPREME COURT.
Adams v. Otterback.

Upon this state of facts the court instructed the jury that if
they should "find the whole evidence aforesaid to be true, yet
the plaintiff has not thereby shown that he has used due diligence in demanding payment, and giving notice of the non-piiyment of said note, and is not entitled to recover in this action.
To this instruction the piaintiff excepted, and the casetwas
now to be argued upon it.
It was argued by 31lr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, and
.Mr. Bradley, for the defen&dit in error.
Mr. Lawrence, for the plaintiff in error, contended that the instruction was erroneous: IJt is difficult to umderstand the ground
upon which the instruction was bottorned; whether, in the
opinion of the court, the plaintiff could not recover admitting the
custom to be proved, because the plaintifs had not conformed
to it; or whether, in the opinion of the court, the custom itself
was not, as a fact, proved by the evidence; or whether, lastly,
it was not legally competent for the bank to change an ancient
custom and introduce a new one. Upon one or other of these
grounds the instruction must have been given, and upon either
of them it was erroneous.
1. That the court may instruct the jury that the plaintiff cannot recover against the indorser of a promissory note if they
believe the evidence, and that evidence proves a particular cus.
tom, and at the same time proves that the plaintiff did not
conform to that custom, we are not called upon to deny,
because such is not the case here. The evidence clearly proves
that the demahd of payment and the notice of protest were in
conformity with the altered usage, if that altered usage is itself
established.
2. If the meaning of the instruction was that the custom
itself, as alleged, was not proved by the evidence in the cause,
then it was erroneous, because it was an invasion of the province of the jury. There was certainly evidence tending to
prove that the old custom had been changed, and the new
custom introduced. Whether that evidence did prove it, was
for the jury to determine. It was not one of those cases in
which a demurrer to evidence would lie, upon the ground that
the quality of the evidence was not such as is required by
law, whatever might be its tendency. For, in all the cases in
this court, it has been held that it was competent to prove
the custom of a bank by parol evidence. Renner v. Bank of
Columbia, 9 Wheat 587, 588; Mills v. Bank of United States)
11 Wheat. 431.
Nor was the instruction proper upon the ground that the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

541

Adams v. Otterback..

number of instances -hich had occurred within the two years
since th. adoption of the new custom were not sufficient in
number to prove a new custom, or to bring it to the knowledge
of the defendant. Because, if it be admitted that a custom may
be changed, there must be a time when the change must commence, and there must be a first and single instance of the new
custom; and in the case of Mills v. Bank of United States, and
Bank of Washington v. Triplett and Neale, 1 Pet. 25, this court
has already decided that it is not necessary that a custom should
have actually been brought to the notice of an indorser. But
on the contrary, it is the duty of the indorser to acquaint himself, by inquiry, with the custom of the bank with which he
deals.
3. It was competent for the bank to change its custom whenever in its discretion the interests of the bank should require it.
There is no inexorable rule of law which binds down such an
institution to one eternal routine of business, notwithstanding
the changing interests of commerce may demand a modificatioq.
On the contrary, this court has held that which the sound principles of commercial business dictate, viz. that a bank may
change its custom, and may prove that change in the same
manner as they may prove the original custom. Cookendorfer
v. Preston, 4 How. 326.
The plaintiff in error would therefore submit, that if it is competent for a bank to change its usages; if there is evidence in
the case tending to prove such change; if thera is evidence
in the case tending to show that the bank had made demand and
given notice in accordance with such altered usage, then the
instruction, that if the jury find the whole evidence of the plaintiff to be true, yet he was not entitled to recover, was erroneous.

14"r. Bradley for defendant in error.
This case turns upon the right of a bank, -withoutnotice, public or otherwise, given to the persons dealing with it iD the way
of discounting negotiable paper, to change the usage and custom
of the bank in respect to the demand of payment of the notes,
and giving notice to the indorsers, so as to bind the indorsers
by such change. In other words, to maintain the plaintiff's
case, it must appear that when a man procures a note to be discounted by a bank, by that act alone, the usage and custom of
that bank are incorporated into the contract of discount, and become a constituent part of that contract between the parties to
that note and the bank. And this is the case, although the parties never before had dealt with that bank; the paper was not
made payable or negotiable at the bank; the usaae and custom
of that bank differed, in that respect, from those of all the other
VOL.' XV.

46

542

SUPREME

COURT.

Adams 'v. Otterback.

banks in the same community; and this particular usage and
custom had been introduced by that bank within a short period,
without notice, public or otherwise, and was unknown to the
parties to the note; and before such change, that bank had conformed to the usage and custom of the other banks in that community; or, in otherrwords still, a party applying to a bank to
discount for him negotiable paper, is bound to inquire, if he does
not know, the special usage of that particular bank in respect
to negotiable paper discounted by it, at the time of such dis.
count, and he is not to rely either on the known and established
usage and custom of all the other banks in the same community,
or upon the particular usage of that partiular bank tip to the
day before such discount, but he must ascertain if any change
has been made in such usage, as he will be bound by it whether
he knows it or not.
It is conceded by the defendant in error.That a custom or usage of a bank, brought home to the knowledge of a person dealing with the bank, in respect to the discount of negotiable paper, enters into the contract, becomes a
constituent part of it, and must have its due weight in the exposition of it. Bank of Columbia v. Magruder, 6 Har. & J. 180.

This knowledge may be proved directly, or may be implied
from the dealings of the parties.
It may be inferred from persons dealing with the bank, which
has a well-established usage. Lincoln & Kennebec Bank v.
YPage, 9 Mass. 155; Same v. Hammatt, Ib. 159; Smith v. Whit-

ing, 12 Mass. 8.
From the parties being accustomed to transact business of
that kind with the bank. Blanchard v. Hilliard, 11 Mass. 88;
Jones v. Pales, 4 Mass. 252; Widgery v. Munroe, 6 Mass. 450;
Bank of Columbia v. Fitzhugh, 1 Har. & G. 239; Hartford Bank
v. Stedman, 3 Conn. 489; City Bank v. Cutter, 3 Pick. 414;
Bank of Columbia v. Magruder, 6 H. & J. 172; Whitwell v.
Johnson, 17 Mass. 452.
From the negotiable paper being made payable or negotiable
at the particular bank. In addition to the cases cited, see also
Yeaton v. The Bank of Alexandria, 5 Cranch, 52; Renner v.
The Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheat. 585; Brent's Executor v.
The Bank of the Metropolis, 1 Pet. 93; Mills V. Bank of United
States, 11 Wheat. 431.
But it is contended by the defendant:
I. In all cases the usage to bind the parties must be a known,
established, and invariable usage. See all the cases cited.
IL It is not strictly a rule of judicial decision, out is compounded of law and fact, and is admissible in evidence tQ show
the contract of the parties, and their assent to such usage. See

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

543

Adams v. Otterback.

11 1\Iass. 88; 4 lass. 252; 6 Mass. 450; 1 Har. & Gill, 239;
3 Conn. 489; and the cases in this court above cited, and those
cited by plaintiff in error.
III. A usage may be changed; Cookendorfer v. Preston, 4
How. 317. But the knowledge of that change must be brought
home to the party to be affected by it. This may be in any of
the modes already mentioned, or in some other mode from which
it may justly be inferred that the party knew or ought to have
known it.
IV. In this case it is admitted that, by the usage of the bank,
existing up to the spring of 1846, the demand and notice set up
in this action would have been insufficient. It is admitted that
no notice, public or otherwise, was given of the alleged change;
it is not shown how the change was made; and there are but
three instances of practice under the alleged change, all of
which were in the spring of 1848.
It is not pretended that defendant ever had any dealings with
the bank prior to this time; the note was not made payable or
negotiable at the bank; and the court is now asked to go, for
the first time, the length of saying that every man to whose credit a note is discounted by a baik, is bound by all the usages
of that bank in regard to demand and notice of that note, although he has never dealt with the bank before, and the note
was not made negotiable or payable there, and there is no fact
or circumstance in the case from which it can legally be inferred
that he knew the said usage.
It will not do to ay he received the avails. If the law binds
him it binds all the intermediate parties between him-and the
maker. Nor does it follow, that because the avails ostensibly
went to his credit, that he derived any benefit froih them. He was
the payee, and last indorser. They must have gone to his credit.
But the money was on the same day paid to bearer on his check:
It may well be inferred that it was paid to the makers; that the
note was made for their benefit, to be discounted wherever they
could get it done, having no reference to this particular bank, or
it would have been made payable and negotiable there. The
check also is for "proceeds of ' this note, discounted this day
for $800, the'usual form in which the proceeds of a discounted
note would pass to the credit of the maker.
Nor will it do to say that it was discounted on his credit.
Ie then stood in the condition of a surety. As surety he is not
t,6 be bound beyond the terms of his contract. His contract was
made with reference to the existing and well-known commercial
usage, and the banking usage of the community in which he
lived. It is a general note, so to speak -not
a ziote payable
or negotiable at anyparticular bank, or having any reference to

544

SUPREME

COURT.

Adams v. Otter-back.

any particular or special usage. His contcact bound him to the
general usage on its face, and as surety he is entitled to all the
benefits of that general usage. It was, tfaat if the maker did
not pay at maturity he would, provided demand was made on
the maker, and notice given to him as indorser, according to the
general usage.
The plaintiff sets up another contract, not apparent on the
face of the paper, nor to be inferred from any dealings, nor exhibited in any knowledge brought home expressly or by any recognized implication, to the defendant.
It is submitted that the Circuit Court was right in giving the
instrulction.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia.
This action was brought on a promissory note dated the 11th
March, 1848; given by George W. Yellett, :enry Haw, and William B.- Scott, in the name of Haw, Yellett & Co., in which
they promised to pay to Philip Otterback, Esquire, or order, sixty
days after date, the sum of eight hundred dollars, for value received; which note, before it became due, was assigned to the
plaintiff.
The general issue was pleaded, and the cause was tred by a
The note was. discounted by the Bank of Washington, the
proceeds of which were drawn by the defendant.
The following facts appear in the bill of exceptions. The
note was unpaid at maturity, and on Monday, the 15th of May,
after three o'clock of that- day, was delivered by the bank to
George Sweeny, the notary employed by said bank to demand
payment thereof, and for protest if not pai.
The notary stated
that he demanded payment at the United States Hotel, and was
answered, "neither of the proprietors are within, and it cannot
be paid." On the same day notice was left at the dwelling of
the indorser.
- The witness further stated, that he had been teller of the
bank since the year 1836, and that after the decision of the
case of Cookendorfer- v. Preston, by the Supreme Court, in
1846, the said bank changed the usage and custom whicli had
theretofore prevailed therein, in regard to -the demand and protest of negotiable paper held and discounted by it; and in all
cases of discount they thereafter held the paper until the fourth
day of grace; -and if the said fourth day fell on Sunday, it was
under the said change the custom of the bank to retain it until
Monday, and on that day to deliver the same to the notary to

DECEMBER

TERM,

1853.

Adams v. Otterback.

demand payment and give notice; and Sylvester B. Bowman,
bookkeeper of the bank, states that since the decision of said
case, the usage had been changed by the bank, as above stated.
No notice of such change had been given, so far as the witness knew; and it was further stated, that four cases had oc
curred in which the notes becoiiiing due on Sunday, the notice
was given on Monday. On the evidence, this court instructed
the jury that the plaintiff had not used due diligence in denanding payment and giving notice of non-payment to the
indorser - to which the'plaintiff excepted.
This court, by several decisions, have sanctioned the usages
of banks in this district, in making demand and giving notice
of non-payment, varying from the law merchant. Renner v.
Bank of Columbia, 9 Wheat. 587-588; Mills v. Bank of the
United States, 11 Wheat. 430; and in some instances where,
in this respect, notes left in a bank for collection, have been
placed on a different footing from notes discounted. Cookendorfer v. Preston, 4 Howard, 324.
But these usages had been of long standing and of general
notoriety. Rights had grown up under them which could not
be disregarded without injurytto commercial transactions. In
the case before us the usage relied on, and under whici notice
to the indorser was given, had been adopted by the bank two
years before the note in question was discounted, but it seems
only four cases 'had- occurred under it. No public notice was
given at the time of its adoption, and no presumption can arise
from the facts stated, that the indorser could have had notice
of the usage.
It is said, if a bank may establish a usage, it may change it;
and that there must be a beginning of acts under it. 'This
may be admitted, but it does not follow that a usage is obligatory fhorn the time of its adoption. To give it the force of law,
it requires an acquiescence and a notoriety, from which an infereice may be drawn that it is known to the public, and especially to those who do business with the bank. It is unnecessary to consider whether a usage adopted might acquire force
from public notices generally circulated. No such notice was
given in this case.
But to constitute a usage, it must apply to a place, rather
than to a particular bank. It must be the rule of all the banks
of the place, or it cannot, consistently, be called a usage. If
every bank could establish, its own usage, the confusion and
uncertainty would greatly exceed any local convenience resulting from the arrangement.
In this country and in England, three days of grace are given
by the general commercial law, and the day the note matures

SU'PREME COURT.
Livingston et al. v. Woodworth et al.

is not one of them. In Hamburg, the day the bill falls due
makes one of the days of grace. Notice must be given to the
drawer or indorser on the day the dishonor takes place, or on
the next day. If notice be given through the post-office, it
must be forwarded by the first mail after the demand of payment. If the note fal'due on Sunday, under the general law,
the demand of payment must be made on Saturday.
The usage is not proved in this case. Four instances, in the
course of two years, are insufficient to establLsh a usage. Such a
rule would, in effect, abolish the commercial law, in regard to
demand and notice on promissory notes and bills of exchange.
There is ground ' doubt whether any deviation fLom the general law has not been productive of inconvenience.
No explanation is given, why the demand of payment on the
note was made at the United States Hotel, in this city. Such
a demand would seem to be insufficient.
We are, therefore, of the opinion, that there was no error in
the instructions of the court to the jury; the ;udgment of the
Circuit Court is therefore affirmed.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, holden in and for the County of Washington, and
was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is now
here ordered and adjudged by this. court, that the judgment of
the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby,
affirmed, with costs.

WILLIAM LIVINGSTON AND EBENEZER N. C ALEF, APPELLANTS,
V. WILLIAM W. WooDWORTH, ADMINISTRATOR OF WILLIAM

WOODWORTB,

DECEASED,

JAMES

G. WILSON, ARTEmAS L.

BROOKS, AND IGNATIUS TYLER, APPELLEES.
Where the assignors of a pateit-right were joined with thE. assignee for a particular
loeality, in a bill for an injunction to restrain a defendant from the use of the machine patented, and the defendant raised, in this court, and after a inal decree, an
objection arising from a misjoinder of parties, the objection comes too late.

Moreover, in the present case, the parties consented to tae decree under which the
account in controversy was adjusted.
That consent having been given, however, to a decree by which an acconnt should
be taken of gains and profits, according to the prayer of the bill, the defendant was
not precluded from objecting to the account upon the ground that it went beyond

the order.
The report having been recommitted to the master, with instructions to ascertain the
amount of profits which might have been realized with due diligence, and the mas-

