THE DECISIONS
or T=

SU]?RE RE COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

DECEMBER TERM,

1853.

THE UNITED STATES, APPELLANTS, V. SAMUEL DAVENPORT'S
HEIRS.

Two grants of land in the country known as the neutrdl territory lying between the
Sabine River and the Arroyo Iondo. confirmed, namely, one for La Nana granted in 1798, and the other for Los Ormegas granted in 1795.
These grants were made by the commandant of the Spanish post of Nadogdoches,
who at that time had power to make inchoate grants.
In both cases the grants had defined metes and bounds, and the grantees were placed
in possession by a public officer, and exercised many acts of ownership.
The evidence of the grants was copies made by the commandant of thepost, and also
copies made by the land-office in Texas. These copies, under the circumstances,
are sufficient.
At the date (f these grants, it was necessary Lo obtain the ratification of the civil and
military Governor before the title became perfected. This not having been done
in the j resent ease, the title was imperfect, although the petition alleges that it-was
perfect, and the District Court had jurisdiction under the Acts of 1824 and 1844.
But the District Court ought not to have decreed that floats should issue where the

United States had sold portions of the land, because these vendees were not made
parties to the proceedings.

TIs was an appeal from the District Court of the .United
States for the iastern District of Louisiana, under the Acts of
1824 and 1844 so often referred to in cases previously reported.
The facts of the case are recited in the opinion of the Court.
It was argued 'v Ir.' Cushing (Attorney-General) on the part
of the United State-, and by M1,'. Baldwin and Mr. Johnson,with
whom was Mr. Coxe, on behalf ,f the appellees.
The points made on the part of the United States were,
I That the court below had no jurisdiction, and that the decrees are therefore nullities.
These grants were complete titles, requiring -nothing more to
be done to perfect them; and the cases are full of proof, offered
VOL. XV.

1

2

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Davenport'la Heirs.

b.y the claimants, to show that the grants were perfect grants.
But the act of 1824 applies only to cases of incomplete titles,
to cases protected by the treaty of 1803, "and which might
haVe been perfected into a complete title, under, and in conformity to, the laws, usages, and customs of the governments
under Which the same originated, had not the sovereignty of
the country been transferred to the United States." 1 Land
Laws, 385. The point, it is conceived, is decided in the case
of the United States v. Reynes, 9 Howard, 144, bottom of
page, and 145.
II. That there is no sufficient evidence of the execution of
the grants by Fernandez and Gaudiana.
III. That, even if their execution is proved, then they are
void; because Fernandez and Gaudiana had no authority to
make such large grants. Laws for the sal.a and distribution of
lands. 2 White's Rec. p. 48 to 55; Royal Ordinance of 13th
October, 1749, Ibid. 67; Royal Ordinance of 1754, Ibid. 62;
O'Reilly's and Gayoso's Regulations, Ibid. 229, 231.
IV. That even if their execution is proved, then the grants
are void, because no lands were severed from the public domain
by surveys, giving a certain location previous to the treaty of
1800 or even 1803, and the descriptions 'n the grants are so
vague, indefinite, and uncertain, that no location of the lands
embraced in them can be given. United States v. Miranida, 16
Peters, 156 to 160; 15 Peters, 184, 215, 275, 319; 10 Peters,
331 ; 3 Howard, 787 ; 5 Howard, 26 ; United States v. Boisdore's
heirs, 11 Howard, 63; Lecompte v. United States, Ibid. 115.
V. That the claimants are, not within the provisions of the
act of 1824, and there are not the proper averments in their
petitions to show that they are entitled to its benefits.
The counsel for the appellees made the following points
1. The territory within which both of these grants were situate was, at their respective dates, within the boundaries of
Texas, (the Arroyo Hondo being the eastern boundary,) and
subject to the dominion and control .of tha commandancy at
Nacogdoches, so far as related to the granting of lands.
2. The civil and military commandants at that post were, ex
officio, lieutenant-governors, and had authority to grant lands
within their province or department.
3. These grants were made by them in manner stated in the
petitions, and were in conformity with thE laws, usages, and
'customs of Spain, which then existed in the province of Texas
and at the post of Nacogdoches.
4. These grants gave to the grantees therein named, and to
their legal representatives, a good title to the premises in them
respectively described.

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

3

United States v. Davenport's Heirs.

5. The plaintiffs, in these suits, have shown themselves, by a
regular deduction of title, the owners of the William Burr and
Samuel Davenport interests'in both tracts; and are, therefore,
entitled to recover.
31r. ohnson, in his argu~nent, said that the United States had
not denied the existence of the original grants. As to the allegation that the lands were not severed from the royal domain,
if the grant was aapable of being located, it need not be actually
severed. Glenn v. United States, 13 Howard, 250. This grant
can be located, A centre being given, a line must b.e tun from
it two leagues to the north and two to the south; then from
each end, two east and two west; then close the survey. The
record shows that the centre tree existed. The other grant can
be surveyed also.
But it has been said that if these titles are good for any thing,
they are complete titles, and therefore not within the jurisdic-.
tion of the court under the acts of 1824 and 1844.
We are aware that in the case of the 'United States v. Reynes,
9 Howard, 127, this court has decided that perfect grants, arising under the treaty of 1803, dY not fall within, and are not embraced by, the provisions of this lawl; and to that' decision we
bow with respectful deference; but we ask the court whether
the two grants under consideration are of that description? We
submit to your honors whether the fact that these grants were
made by the civil or military commandants; -whether from the
fact that they lay within the neutral territory, a territory which,
from its earliest history, was in"
dispute between the commandants at Natchitoches, in Louisiana, and Nacogdoches, in Texas,
and which, by the treaty of 1819, falls within the limits of
Louisana; seeing that the grants originated with the commandant in Texas,-are not considerations which will take these
cases out of the operation of that decision. Notwithstanding the
proof inthese cases to the contrary, we submit, whether, under
the laws of Spain and of the Indies, %tricti
juris, these grants,
to make them perfect and complete, did not require the sanction
of the Home Department and authority. Such was the con.
struction put upon them by Governor Salcedo himself, the go.
vernor of the internal provinces, when " on his way to San Antonio he collected altthe titles he coruld, in order to have them
confirmed." See Colonel Bloodworth's testimony, Y. and M.)
0. R. p. 201; N. R. 187. And did not the *submission of
Davenport & Co. of one of the grants to Governor Salcedo,
show that they deemed the sanction of the acts of the military
commandant, who made the grant, by a higher authority necessary ; and did not the action of that governor show his own

4

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Davenport's Heirg.

acquiescence in these views, and also show that the grant was
farther embarrassed, by the fact that it lay within the neutral
territory? Y. and M., 0. R. p. 140; N. R. 130. This, too, is
in accordance with the testimony of BEnjamin Fields, who
swears that he always supposed such sanction necessary; p. 92
and 93; N. R. 89, 90; and are not these views strengthened
by reference to the note of the commissioners, p. 43, 44, and
51? In which last Uote the commissioners say:"It appears to be a historical fact, that the strip of country
called the neutral territory was early disputed by the ancient governments of Texas and Louisiana, both alternately assuming and
repelling jurisdiction over it; and even after both provinces were
united under the dominion of Spain the dispute did not subside,
but was kept alive and perpetuated by the local commandants,
&c." These commissioners, in their several reports, after classing these in the first class of claims, recommend them for confirmation; a language which would not have been used in
reference to perfect titles, and which, coming from them, is to be.
regarded as the language of the government itself. 9 Pet.R. 468.
These were the grounds on which the District Attorney, in the
court below, insisted that-the grants were inchoate and not perfect and absolute; and we with great confidence submit to the
court, therefore, whether these combined considerations do not
olearly distinguish these cases from that of the United States v.
Reynei, before referred to; and if so, whether they are not embraced by the act under which the suits are brought; and in
view of the whole case in all its aspects, we, with like confidence,
submit whether we are not entitled to recover.
1 Howard, 24; 7 Pet. R. 51; 10 Pet. R. 303; Civil Code,
title Prescription, 3421, 3437, 3438, 3465, and 3466; 2 White's
Recop. 191; Duff Green's American State Papers, vol. 3, p. 72
to 83; lb. vol. 4, p. 34- 36, 60, 61, 75; Executive Document,
33, 2d session, 27th Congress, p. 81. Dce v. Eslava et al. 9
Pet. R. 449; Doe v. The City of M\'obile, Ib.468.
" The authority given to these officers (the register and receiver) was to be exerci-ed only in casds of imperfect grants,
confirmed iy the act of Congress, and not cases of perfect titles;
in these they had no authority to act."
Mr. Justice CAMPBELL delivered fhe opinion of the court.
This cause comes before this court by an. appeal from a decree
of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The appellees filed their petition in that court to establish
their claim to a share in two grants of land, situate on the
western border of Louisiana, in th& country known as the

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.
United States v. Davenport's Heirs.

neutral territory, lying between the Sabine river and the .Arroyo
Hondo.
One of these grants was issued by the commandant of the
Spanish post at Nacogdoches to Edward Murphy, the 1st day
of July, 1798, for a tract of land called La Nana, containing
92,160 acres. The grantee, in the month of November following, conveyed it to the trading firm of William Barr & Co., of
which Murphy and Samuel Davenport, the ancestor of the appellees, were respectively members.
The evidence of the grant consists in copies of the petition of
Edward Murphy to the commandant, dated in February, 1798,
for a donation of the tract La Nana, situate to the east of the
Sabine river, on the road leading from the town of Natchitoches.
The tract asked for forms a square of four leagues upon that
road, the centre of which is the prairie adjoining the bayou La
Nana. The motive of the application was, that the petitioner
might have summer pasturage for his cattle and other animals.
The petition was granted by the commandaht, and the procurator was ordered to-place the grantee in possession. The procurator fulfilled this order the first of August, 1798, by going
upon the land with the grantee and in the presence of witnesses,
"took him by the right hand, walked with him a number of
paces from north to south, and the same from east to west,
and he, letting gohis band, (the grantee,) walked about at pleasure on the said territory of La Nana, pulling up weeds and
made holes in the ground, planted posts, cut down bushes, took
up clods of earth and threw them on the ground, and did many
other things in~token of the possession in which he had been
placed in the name of His Majesty, of said land with the boundaries and extension as prayed for."
The act of possession was returned to the commandant, who
directed "that it should be placed in the protocol of the post to
serve as evidence of the same, and that a certified copy should
be given to the person interested." The conveyance of Murphy
to his firm bears date in the month of November after; was executed 'in the presence of the same commandant, and at that
time the certified -copies offered in evidence, purport tO have
been made.
The other grant'is for a tract of land called Los Ormegas,
containing 207,360 acres. It is founded on ,a petition of Jacinta
Mora to the commandant of the same post, in November, 1795,
who asked for the concession, that he might establish a stock
farm for the raising of mules, hbrses, horned cattle, &c., and to
cultivatethe soil. The tract described in the petition contains
six leagues square on the river Sabine, the centre of the Western
line being opposfte to the Indian crossing place of that river.

6

SUPREME COURT.
United State3 v. Davenport's Heirs.

The player of the petition was allowed the same day, and orders
.givel to the procurator to place the petitioner in possession,
"with all the usual formalities of style, and that he should report his proceedings for the more effectual confirmation of the
property."
This order was executed in December, 1795, with the same
ceremonial that was employed about the order upon the La
Nana grant, and the act recording the transaction was placed
in the protocol of-the post.
The paper in evidence is a certified copy made by the commandant of the post in 1806, shortly befo -e the conveyance of
the grantee to the firm of William Barr & Co., and in the certificate the copy is declared to have been compared and corrected,
and that it is true and genuine.
Besides these papers, the plaintiffs procured certified copies
from the officers of the land-office in Texas, from copies of the
protocol made in 1810, which were submitted by the firm of
Barr & Co. to the governor (Salcedo) of one of the internal
provinces of New Spain, of which this post was at the time a
dependency, apparently for the purpose of o3taining his sanction,
either to the authenticity of the document, or to the grant it
evinced. This copy of the La Nana'paper.&does not correspond
with that of 1793, but that of the Ormegas grant is substantially
the same as that made in 1806.
The plaintifi, farther to support their claim, offered evidence
satisfactorily explaining why these papers came to be deposited
in the archives of Texas and for the fact of their discovery
there.
These claims were presented in 1812, to the commissioners
appointed to ascertain and adjust claims to lands in the Western
District of Louisiana, and have been before the several boards
which have been since constituted to effect the same object.
The genuineness of the signatures which appear on these copies
of the grant; that they have come.from a proper depository;
that the parties whd now hold them hava claimed them since
the date of their titles; that the lands are fitted for the objecte
for which they were sought,-and have been used for that purpose;
that surveys and possession defined their limits, contemporaneously, or nearly so, with the grants, are facts sufficiently established by the evidence submitted to the District Court. Nc
imputation upon the authenticity of the grants occurs in any of
the reports or acts of the government, but in the various reports
of the *Boards of TIquiry they have been -treated as genuine,
resting upon just considerations, and ent.tled to confirmation
from the equity of the government.
The qnestions now arise, have these grants been legally esta-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

7

United States v. Davenport's Heirs.

bUshed? Were they within the competency of the persons
making them? Are they binding upon the faith of the government of the United States? Does it lie within the jurisdiction
of this court to render a decree favorable to the petitioners ?
The copies made by the Spanish commandant from the protocol, and certified by him to be true and genuine, though
dated long after the protocol, would be received in evidence in
the courts of Spain, as possessing equal claims to credit as the
primordial or originals. For the reason, that those like these are
certified by the same officer whose attestation gives authenticity
to the protocol, and who is charged to preserve it. 2 Escriche,
Dic. de leg. 185. And this court for the same reason has uniformly received them, as having the same authority. United
States v. Percheman, 7 Peters, 51; United States v. Delespine,
15 Peters, 319, and cases cited.
In this case the evidence of the loss or destruction of the
protocol is satisfactory, and the copies would be admitted as
secondary evidence upon well settled principleb.
The power of the commandants of posts, in the Spanish
colonies to make inchoate titles to lands within their jurisdictions has been repeatedly acknowledged by this court.
Under the laws and regulations of the Spanish Crown, it is
a question of some doubt, whether grants for the purpose of
grazing cattle, were any thing more than licenses to use the lands,
and whether they were designed to operate upon the dominion.
This question was presented in the case of the United States v.
Huertas, 8 Peters, 475, upon a grant "with the precise condition
to use the lands for the purpose of raising cattle, without having the faculty to alienate the said land by sale, transfer, control
of retrocession, or by any other title in favor of a stranger
without the knowledge of this government," was confirmed by
a decree of this court against that objection upon the part of
the government, 8 Peters, 475- 709. We consider the question
closed by the decision in that case, in- reference to the country
formerly held by Spain, lying to the east of the Sabine.
The land comprehended in these grants at their respective
dates was within the unquestioned dominions of the Crown of
Spain. The evidence clearly established that the commandants
of the posts at Nacogdoches, before and subsequently, were
accustomed to make concessions to lands'in the neutral territory. This was not at all times an unquestioned jurisdiction,
but between the years 1790 and 1800, it seems to have been
generally acquiesced in. Some of the grants made within that
period have been confirmed by the United States. The dispute
of this jurisdiction was a dispute raisgd by other local commandants and had no relation to the controversy which arose

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Davenport's Heirs.

between the United States and Spain, upon the construction
of the treaty of St. Ildefonso and the limits of the cession it
made. Had these grants been executed after the date of that
treaty, they would probably have been controlled by the doctrine
of the case of the United States v. Reyne ., 9 Howard, 127, and
those of a kindred character. Having been executed by officers
of the Crown of Spain, within its 4ominions, and in the exercise
of an apparently legitimate authority, the presumption is in
favor of the rightfulness of the act. No evidence, has been
given on the part of this government to impugn it, and much
evidence has been adduced to uphold and sustain it.
The petition of the appellees describes ihe grants to be complete, wanting nothing to their validity from the authorities of
Spain.
They have adduced evidence to show that such was the
estimation in which they were held by the inhabitants of the
district of Nacogdoches. If the court he.d adopted this conclusion it could have taken no jurisdiction of the case. Its
jurisdiction under the act of 1844 is merely to supply the deficiencies in the titles, which were in their incipient state at the
termination of the Spanish dominion.
The facts pleaded, enable us to determine the case -Without a
reference to these legal conclusions of the parties. In the
United States v. Clarke, 8 Peters, 436, this court reviewed the
ordinances and regulations of the Crown of Spain for the disposition of its uncultivated lands in the Indies, so as to ascertain
in whom, among its officers, the power to grant resided. From
the examination, it was concluded that in 1774, it was confided
to the civil and military Governors, from whom it had been for
some years previbusly withdrawn, and tat it remained with
these officers till a period subsequent to the date of these grants
in the territories bordering upon the- Gulf of Mexico. The
commandants of posts, and other sub-delegates of this officer,
were charged only with a superintendence of the incipient and
mediate states of the title, but the power of completely severing
the subject of the grant from the public domain was uniformly
retained by that central jurisdiction. We are, therefore, of the
opinion, that these concessions must be treated as imperfect, and
dependent upon the sanction of the United States., Upon a
full examination of the evidence, we think they are sustained
upon principles of equity, and that the decree of the District
Court that declares them to be valid, should be affirmed.
That portion of the decree which provides that the petitioners
be entitled to locate so many acres of land as have at any time
been sold, or otherwise disposed of, out of said subdivisions
by the United States, or any other unappropriated land belong-

DECEMBER TERM, 1853.

9

United States v. Davenport's Heirs.

ing to the United States, within the State of Louisiana, falls
within the objections, stated in the case of the United States v.
Moore, 12 Howard, 209, and of United States v. McDonogh, at
this term, and cannot be maintained. To this extent the decree
of the District Court is reversed. The effect of which reversal
and of the decree rendered, is to exempt the lands sold or disposed of by the United States from the operation of the plaintfi claim, and to leave the question of indemnity between the
claimant and the political department of this government.
Order.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, it is the opinion of this court that the grants
set forth in the record are valid grants, and that so much of the
decree of the District Court as confirms them should be affirmed;
but that such of the lands embraced'by the said grants as have
been sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States are
exempt from the operation of the said grants; and that so much
of the decree of the said"District Court as authorizes the location of so many acres of the lands embraced in the said grants
as have been sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States,
on any other unappropriated lands of the United States, within
the State of Louisiana, is erroneous, and should be reversed.
Whereupon, it is now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that so much of the decree of the District Court as authorizes
the location of so many acres of the land as have been disposed
of by the United States on any other unappropriated lands of
the United States, within the State of Louisiana, be, and the
same is hereby reversed and annulled; and "that the lands so
sold or otherwise disposed of by the United States, be, and the
same are hereby exempted from the operation of the said grants.
And it is now here further ordered, adjudged, and decreed,
that so much of the decree of the said-District Court as declares
the said grants to be valid, be, and the same is hereby affirmed.

