432

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Russelg

v.

ship reversed; affirmed as to
cargo, except the Ic zwood,, vhich was con-

Sentence as to the

1816.
Sthe

demned.

Trustees of
Transylvania Univer* if a covcr is attempted for enemny's knowledge of his principal, the
sity.
property, by an intermixture with
21eutral,'it is held to subject the
whole to confiscation. 1 Caines'
Rep. 565. Blagge v. The N. Y.
Ins. Co. And if the general agent
of a neutral cargo covers enemy's
property in the same vessel,
though tithoat the consent or

property of his principal is con-.
defihnable, (notwithstandingit may
be distinguished by the papers,)
and the warranty of neutrality is
not fulfilled: 2 Binney, 308. The
Phcenix Ins. Company. v. Pratt
et al.

(CHANCERY.)

RUSSEL ET. AL V.

The' Trustees of the

TRANSYLVANIA

UNIVERSITY.
A question under a bill in chancery,.to obtain from the defendants
a conveyance of a tract of land, in Kentucky, held by them as the
property of the original grantee, confiscated to the state, and claimd by the plaintiffs under an equity arising from a sale made by the
original grantee of another tract of land, to which it was alleged he
erroneously supposed himsdlf legally entitled under the same warrant and survey. Bill dismissed.

from the circuit court for the district of
Kentucky. This cause was argued at - a former
term, and continued to the present term tor advisement.
APPEAL

OF THE UNITED STATES.
JOHNsoN,

J., delivered the opinion of the court as

follows:

.Russel

The object of this bill is to -obtain a conveyance
from the defendants, of a tract of land in the state
of' Kentucky, granted to one Alexander M'Kee,

through whom both parties claim.

The survey was

made under a warrant from Lord Dunmore, then
governor of Virginia, issued the 2d of April, 1774I.
The comaplainants claim under a chain of title regularly deduced from M'Kee; the defendants, under
an act of the legislature, vesting. M'Kee's lands in
them as confiscated property. But it appears, and
is explicitly acknowledged in the bill, that the conveyance from M'Kee describes, by metes and bounds,
a tract of land wholly different from that which the
trustees hold. This court feels. no difficulty in conceding, that whatever equity the complainants hive
a right to claim against M'Kee, this court is bound
to decree against the trustees; for the act of the
legislature could only have been intended to operate upon the interest of M'Kee, and not to defeat
the rights of those who held, or might claim, the
land to the prejudice of M'Kee himself.
The equity set up by the complainanta depends
upon the following allegations: that the warrant
was placed in the hands of one Douglas, a surveyor.
That under that warrant, together with a number of
others then in his hands, he surveyed what, in that
country, is called a 6lock of iurieys, (by which we
understand a number of connected and dipendent
surveys, each containing the same quantity of land.)
That in.,this 4Jock of surveys were contained botb
VOL. T

1816.

S !

v.

Trustees

of

Transylvania
sity. Univer-

March ?lst.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
Russel

v.
Trustees of

'ransylva-

nia Univer-

sity.

that which was conveyed to the claimants, and that
which the defendants hold, each of 2,000 acres.
The bill then proceeds in the following words:
" That the said M'Kee, who resided at a great dis-

tancc fiom the land in question, was furnished with

a boundary of a 2,000 acre survey, agreeably to
that which is contained in his aforesaid deed as the
boundary of his 2,000 acre survey." " And, afterwards, without his knowledge, the surveyor substituted the 2,000 acres which is described in the survey; for that which was originally intended for him."
But they aver, " that it was the intention of the parties to the said deed, that by it should pass the
2,000 acre survey, by whatever boundary described,
to which the said M'Kee was entitled under the
warrant granted to him as aforesaid." By the land
laws of Virginia, the return of the surveyor into the
office is the only legal identification of the larid on
wv.hich -the right of the individual attaches. So that
the warrant of Lord Dunmore being a general, not a
specific warrant, there can be no doubt that M'Kee
never acquired any right, legal or equitable, in the
land described in his conveyance. It is also admitted that the land, of which the defendants are seised,
was M'Kee's land, and derived to him through a
warrant of Lord Dunmore, and a survey made by
Douglas; so that if the other material allegations of
the bill were supported by evidence, it is possible
t.at thig court might be induced to think the complainants' case a good one.
As to the fa t that the description by which
M'Kee sold to tle complainants was the first com-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

435

municated to him, this court can attach to it no im1816.
portance; for, independently of its being unsupported
by proof, it is not alleged by whom the communicaV.
of
tion was made. Nor, if it had been made by the Trustees
Transylvasurveyor, is it shown to us that it would have bound nia Univerhim in making his return; or, if obligatory upon him,
that it would have affected the rights of a third person claiming under the return actually made into the
office.
As, then, it is admitted that the description in
M'Kee's conveyance designates a tract wholly different from that held by the defendants, the whole
equity of the complainants must depend upon the
alleged intention of the parties, M'Kee and Ross, at
the time when the former conveyed to the latter.
And here we find the case wholly unsupported by
proof. It is only in the conveyance itself, in the answer of the defendants, or the extrinsic evidence in
the cause, that we can look for proof of such intention. A conveyance of all M'Kee's lands, surveyed
under a warrant, specifically described, might have
placed the complainants on a different ground. But
the deed does not specify the date of.the warrant,
the number of acres, nor the person to whom it issued. The words are, (after describing the metes and
bounds,) " surveyed by virtue of a warrant from under the hand and seal of John, Earl of Dunmore, under the king's proclamation of 1763." Now, non
constat, but that the warrant here referred to, may
have pas-,-d through a long course of conveyances
down to M'Kee. Nor does the deed state that the
land was surveyed for M'Kce, and so car may have

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

been perfectly consistent with the survey returned
Sin fa'vour of another person. The deed itself, then,
Russel
V.
furnishcs no evidencce of intention, and the answer
Trustees of does no't admit it.
Trn ylvaBut it is contended that the decr-, taken in connia Uuivcr1816.

sity.

nexion with one of the certified facts, " that but one
of Lord Dunore's warrants ever issued to M'Kee;
that but one survey of 2,000 acres was ever returned in his name under that warrant; and that
this was the only survey of 2.000 acres to be found
in the office, in M'Kee's name, under any warrant,"
shows that he must have intended to convey that surveyed forhim, and no other. But the majority of the
court think otherwise. Had the deed described the
land conveyed, as.a tract of 2,000 acres surveyed for
M'Kee himseif, there might have been some ground
for this argument. But the deed is not so expressed;
and, for aught we know, M'Ke may have been
propfidtor of many grants surveyed under Dunmore's warants, in the name of others, and conveyed to him. Such an intention ought not to be inferred from slight circumstances,.nor precipitately acted
upon. Where A. conveys to B., by metes.and
bounds, the circumstances ought to be very strong
to prove that he meant to convey any other lands
than those specifically described, before this court
would be induced to set aside one deed, and decree
the execution of another. If the vendee may set up
such a 'ground of equity, the vendor may do the
same; and the intrinsic difficulties which such investigations w 'ild present, would make it generally
better to leuve the parties to their remedy at law.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

If a person, supposing himself possessed of a specific
1816.
tract of land. in a' certain neighbourhood, should
rit Russel
contract for the sale of that land to another, it
V.
does by no means follow that he would have sold Trustee of
him any other tract, in the same vicinity, to which, nia University.
without his knowledge, he was then entitled,
much less that he would have'sold it for the same
price. It is a consideration of no little importance in this case that the bill expressly alleges
M'Kee's ignorance of the actual return of the survwyor. Arid on what ground are we to presume
that if he had known it he would have sold -he tract
which it covered at all, or sold it at the price expressed in the deed to Ross ? Its value -might have 1 een
treble that of the other, and there is reason to think
that this court would have been induced, under very
strong circumstances only, to decree .in favoiir of
those complainants against M'Kee himself. The
sale ofC a warrant or of any survey that may be made
under a warrant, would be in the nature of a wager
or speculation, and might be sustained. But where
an individual, supposing his warrant located on black
acre, when it is, in fact, located on white acre, conveys the former by metes and bounds, it must be a
strong case that will sanction a court in setting aside
the conveyance of the one, and decreeing that of the
other. It is in vain to say, in this case, that the defendants are bound to show that M'Kee ever had, in
fact, an interest in any survey of 2,000 acres beside
the one in litigation. The answer puts the complainants on their proof, and it is trom them that the evidence is to proceed upon which our decision is to be

438

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

founded. Besides, how are the defendants to be
conusant of, a fact like this ? Their privity forces
V.
upon them no knowledge but what has relation to
Trustees of
Transyiva- this single tract of land; and even as to that, coming
nia University.
in as they do under an act of confiscation, there can
be no reason for requiring of them evidence to such
a fact. A necessary unavoidable implication or inference firom the evidence adduced by the complainants is the only possible ground upon which such a
necessity could be contended for, and even this, in
our opinion, does not exist.
In this case the court explicitly avows that it has
been not a little disposed to look unfavourable on a
claim of .such great antiquity. Nearly forty years
have elapsed since M'Kee conveyed this land to
Ross. Almost every party and every witness must
now be no more; and to undertake, at this late day,
to inquire into the intentions of. parties in a transaction so very-remote in time, might be attended witlb
difficulties and evils which calinot now be foreseen.
Rtussel

Decree affirmed.

