403

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The

George(PRIZE.)

The George, The Bothnea, and The .Tanstar.
In case:- of joint or collusive capture, the usual simplicity of the prize
proceedings is necessarily departed from; and where, in these cases,
there is the least doubt, other evidence fhnu that arising from the
captured veesel, or invoked from other prize cauges, may be resorted to.

AxrEAL from

the circuit court for the district o

Massachusetts.
These were British vessels captured and brought
in by the private armed vessels the Fly and the
Washington, and libelled as prize of war. In bach
of them the United States, interposed a claim, charging that the capture was collusive, and that the whole
property ought; on that account, to be forfeited to
the United States. In each case the captors applied
for permission tQ make farther proof. In that of tlle
George, it was allowed in the-district court, and partially received; but the application to make sMIl further proof, and to introduce into the record testimony already taken, was rejected in the circuit court,
and was again offered in this court. In. the two last
cases farther proof was refused, both in the district
and circuit courts. In all the cases, the v'hssels and
cargoes were condemned to the Unitcd States, and
from each of these seitences of condemnation the
captors appealed t9 this court.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The first case was argued b.y Dexter and G. Sullivan, for the appellants and captors, and by the attor-

ney-general, for the United States.

The two last by

Winder, and Harper for the appellants and captors,

and by Dexter and Pinkney, for the United States.
Ph. J., delivered the opinion *of the
court as follows:
The first question to be discussed is, the propriety of
allowing farther proof It is certainly a general rule
in prize causes that the decision should be prompt;
and should be made, unless some good reason for
departing from it exist, on the papers and testimony
afforded by- the captured vessel, or which can be invoked from the papers of other vessels in possession
of th,. court. This rule ought to be held sacred in
that whole description of causes to which the rea.ons
on which itis founded are applicable. The usual
controversyin prize causes is between the captors
and captured. If the captured vessel be plainly an
enemy, immediate condemnation is certain and .proper. But the vessel and cargo may be neutral, and
may be captured on suspicion. This is a grievous
vexation to the neutral, which ought not to be increased by proloriging his detention, in the hope that something may be discovered from some other source,
which may justify condemnation. If his papers are
all clear, and if the examinations in preparatorio all
show his neutrality, he is, and ought to be, immediately discharged. In a fair trensaction this will often
be the case. If any thing suspicious appears in the
papers, which involves the neutrality of the claimant
MARSHAiL,

409
1816.
The
George.

410

The
George.

CASES IN TIlE SUPREME COURT

ill doubt, he must blame himself for the circumstance,
Sand cannot complain of the delay which is necessary

for the removal of those doubts.

The whole pro-

ceedings are calculated for the trial of the question of
prize or no prize, and the stariding interrogatories
on which the preparatory _examinations are taken are
framed for the purpose of eliciting the truth on that
question. They are intended for the controversy between the captors and the captured; -intended to
draw forth every thing within the knowledge of the
crew of the prize; but cannot be intended to procure
testimony respecting facts not within their know]edge. When the question of prize or no prize is decided in the affirmative, the strong motives for an imimediate sentence lose somewhat of their force, and
the point to which the testimony in prep.aratoriois
taken, is no longer the question in con'troversy. If
another question arises, for instance, as to the propor4ions in which the-owners and crew of the capturing
vessel are entitled, the testimony which will decide
this question must be searched for, not among the
papers of the prize vessel, or the depositions of her
crew,'but elsewhere, and liberty must, therefore, be
given to adduce this testimony. The case of a joint
capture has been mentioned, and we think, correct-

ly, as an analogous case.

Where several cruisers

.claim a share of the prize, extrinsic testimony is admitted to establish their rights. They are not, and
ought not to be, confined to the testimony which

may be extracted from the crew. And yet the standing interr6gatories are, in some degree, adapted to
this case. Each individual of the crew is always ask-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

od whether, at the time of capture, any other vessel
was in sight. Notwithstanding this, the.claimants
to a joint interest in the prize, are always permitted
to adduce testimony drawn from other sources to/Establish their claim. The case before the court is
one of much greater strength. The captors are
Aharged with direct and positive fraud, which is to
strip them of rights claimed under their commissioNs.
E ven if exculpatory testimony could be expected
from the prize crew, the interrogatories are not calculated to draw it from them. Of course, it wifl
rarely happen that testiinony taken for the sole purpose of deciding the question whether the captured
vessel ought to be condemned or restored, should
furnish sufficient lights for determining whether the
capture has been bona fide or collusive. If"circumstances of doubtful appearance oc."ur, justice requires
that an opportunity to explain those circumstances
should be given; and that fraud should never be fixed
on an individual until be has been allowed to clear
himself from the imputation, if in his power.
Under these impressions, the ease must be a strong
one, indeed; the collusiveness of the capture must
be almost confessed, before the court could think a
refusal to allow other proof than is furnished by the
captured vessel justifiable. In the cases before the
court there are certainly many circumstances of
great suspicion, but none which do" not admit of explanation.
In the case of the George, captured .by the privateer Fly, the circumstances relied on to prove the
collusivenebs of the capture are,

1816.
George

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.

.v

The

George.

1st. The force of the Fly. 2d. The shipping
articles. 3d. The cargo of the George. 4th. The
number of her crew. 5th. The place, and other
circumstances of her capture. 6th. The sending the
mariners on shore, instead of bringing. them into the
United States.

First. The force of the Fly may probably neither
require nor admit of explanation.

Second., The shipping articles unquestionably furnish ground of suspicion. But some light may be
thrown on this p6int by testimony sho.wing whether
it was, or was not, common for small. cruisers in the
bay of Fundy to give wages to -the crew instead of
prize money. It may be of still more importance to
determine whether each of the crew, like Gilley, who
was examined, was to receive-twenty dollars in addition to his wages, for each prize.
Third. Respecting the cargo it is not probable
that farther testimony can be adduced.
Fourth. Respecting the number of mariners on
board the captured vessel the court would require
some further information. On the one part it is asserted .that they are insufficient, and on the other
that they are sufficient for the alleged voyage.
There is no evidence which can incline the court the
one way or the other.
Fifth. On the place and other circumstances of
capture further information may certainly be given.
The George appears to have sailed from-St. Johns,
New Brunswick, for the Havanna, on the 8th, and to.
have been captured in Long-Island harbour, at anchor, on the 13th of January, 1814, The distance

OF THE UNITED STATES.

between these places is said to be five hours' sail,
with a favouraule wind and tide. Where did she
ru t
inger-during this interval ? Was she in Etang harbour during any part of the time? Why did she
leave that harbour? Did she expect a convoy ? Did
a convoy sail about that time ? Was it usual for vessels to wait for a convoy at the island of Grand Menan ? Could a vessel be descried from the sea lying
at anchor in Long Island harbour ? Satisfactory answers to these questions might certainly throw some
'ight on this part of the case, and better enable the
court to form an opinion on it.
Sixth. It may not, perhaps, be easy to account
for not bringing in the crew. Yet it would contribute, in some degree, to the elucidation of the transaction, if the practice in that part of the country
could be laid before the court. It might also be of
some importance to know whether the sum of 100
dollars was usually paid by government for every
merchant seaman brought into the country, whether
he was a British subject or the subject of a neutral
power.
In the cases of the Janstaff and the Bothnea, there
are some points to be explained which are common
to those cases with the George, and some which are
peculiar to themselves.
Of the latter class are the inquiries,
First. Whether it frequently happened that unarmed vessels, without a convoy, sailed from that
port, either fpr Ne*r London, or for any other port
af the United States, o' for a foreign port ?

413
1816.

The

George.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

414
1816.

Second. What is the character, and what the ocof the twQ passengers who were found, one

'cupation,
The
Geog.
on board the Bothnea, and the other on board the

J nstaff? Are they acquainted 'with the coasts in,
or about, Long-Island sound? - Are they capable of
being supercargoes ? How came they at Halifax ?
In both cases it will be desirable to know, whether
any previous acquaintance existed between the ca..tors 'and the owners of thecaptured vesselsi and
whether the captors had had any previous communication with the places from which the captured vessels sailed. In the cases of the Janstaff and Bothnea, all the circumstances attending the capture will
be'important. If, as is not expected, any farther or
better reason can be given for putting the whole
crew on shore, it may throw some light on the cases.
Each case depends, in s'ome' degree, on the points
-whichhave been suggested. They are stated for the
purpose of showing, that points, on which the judg.
ment of the court may, in some degree, depend, are
susceptible of explanation, and, therefore, ought to
bd dxplained so far as it may be in the power of the
parties to explain them. It is not, however, intended to confine them to the particular points which
have been stated. Full liberty is given to both
parties to adduce farther proof oni. every point in
the -crse.

Farther proof ordered..

