OF THE UNITED STATES.
1816.
Thompson
V.

(COMMON LAW.)
THOMPSON v. GRAY.
Where R. G. hgreed with the managers of a lottery to take -2,500
tickets, giving approved security on the delivery of the tickets,
which were specified in a schedule, and deposited in books of 100 tickets each, thirteen of which books were received and paid for by him,
and the remaining twelve were'superscribed by him, with his name,
in his own handwriting, and endorsed by the agent of the managers,
"Purchased and to be .taken by Robert Gray," and on the envelope covering the whole, "Robert Gray, 12 books;" on the sec6nd
day's drawing of the lottery, one of the litst designated' tickets was
drawn a prize of 20;000 dollars, and between the third and foui'th
day's drawing, R. G. tendered sufficient Eecurity, and demandea the
last "1,200 tickets, and th'e managers refu -sed to deliver the prize
ticket ; it was held that the proj erty in the tickets changed when
the selection was made and assented to, and that they remained in
the possession of the vendors merely as collateral security, and that
the vendee was entitled fo recover the amount of the prize.
ERROR to the circut court for the county of Alexandria.
This was an actibn of Trover," instituted by the
'defendant in eror, against Jonah Thompson, agent
for the Maiagers. of the Potomac and. Shenandoah
Navigation Lotteries, to recover a ticket in the 2d
class of said lotteries, against which had b.een drawn
a prize of 20,000 dollars.
On the trial, evidence was offered to prove that
the president and managers of the Potomac company had been created a corpdration, under that corporate name; that they had been authorized by law
to raise the sum of 300,000 dollars by lotteries,

Gray.

76

CASES IN THE SUPREME- COURT

1816.

and had arranged and published a s.heme of a se-,

" " " € cond class.
Thompson

v.

Gray.

That the plaintiff below, and one Joseph Nilligan,
projected another scheme, whichi they sent in to the
president and managers, aqcompanied by a proposition in writing, in the words and figures following:
"If this scheme is adopted, we engage to take
2,500 tickets each, in the 2d class of the P. and S.
Navigation ,Lotteiy : Provided the ten dollar prizes
we now hold, and may hereafter redeive, d6ducting
15 pier cent., shall be.taken in liquidation of our joint
bond; and we engage to place in the hands of' Mr.
Carlton all the. funds we receive for new tickets,,
until it amounts to a sum equal* to that which we now
owe the company, as fast as We receive them; on the
balance we shall'expect the usual credit. - It is understood that the discount of 5 per ceint. is to be
made from the above 5,000 tickets : approved security to be given on the delivery of the tickets.
(Signed)

"JOSFPH MILLIGAN.
"R. GRAY."
-

It was admitted that this scheme was approved of
and adopted by the president and managers, and
their owp scheme was abandoned; that the proposition of the plaintiff and Milligan was accepted by
them, and became a binding contravt between thepar-

ties. Evidence was also oifered to prove, that under
the contract a schedule specifying the numbers of
certain tickets, by books containing one hundred

OF THE UNITED STATES.

each, to the extent of 2,500, selected by the plain1816.
tiX, and to be set apart for his use, had been deliver- *--'
Thompson
ed by him to the forier agent of the lottery; that
V.
two of thi books mentioned in ..e said schedule
Gray.
having been disposed of, or put out of the reach of
the agent, another schedule was handed in by the
plaintiff to the defendant, then, and at present, agent,
in which two other books, containing the same number of.tickets, were substituted in lieu of the two last
mentioned, the schedule, in respect to the others,
being the same as the first. Thatthe plaintiff had,
at different times, received 13 books, of 100 tickets
each,. part of those specified in the schedule, and
that he had paid for the 13 books, partly in certain
promis.sory notes, received and approved of by the
agent, a nd partly in cash, and had aflerwerds paid
108 dollars arid- 80 cents, on account of tickets in the
2d class, over and above the said 13 books. On the
requisition of the plaintiff, the .defendant produced
on the trial a* bundle containing twelve-books of
tickets of one hundred each, (the residue of the niumbers specified in the schedule,) 'and, amongst others,
the ticket in the declaration mentioned. On each o.
which books the name of the plaintiff was superscribed in his own handwriting: and on one of .hemn
(not that containing the ticket in the declaration
claimed) W-as endorsed in the defendant?s handwriting
_" Purchased and to be taken'by Robert Gray."
And on the envelope covering 'the whole twelve
books in one bundle wts superscribed, in the hand
and figures of the defendant' the words an 4 figures
following:
" ROBERT GRAY,

12 Book-.-

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
Thompson

V.
Gray.

Similar proceedings took place as to W. Milligart,
to whom only a part of the tickets selected by him
had been delivered.
That the drawing- of the lottery was commenced
on the 17th day of November, 1812, and that, on the
27th of that month, the second day's drawing, a prize
of 20,000 dollars was drawn against the number in
the declaration mentioned. The plaintiff also offered evidence to prove that on the 4th clay of Decemher, 1812, subsequent to the third and before the
fourth day's drawing, the plaintiff tendered to the defendant a bond for the payment of
dollars,
executed by himself and two sureties, who were
fully sufficient for that sum, and demanded from him
the 12 books of tickets which had been selected -and
set apart for him. To which the defendant replied,
that he was ready to deliver 1,200 of any undrawn
tickets, but would not deliver the high prize. The
drawing of the lottery had been continued only fifteen days.
On which the counsel for the defendant below
moved the court to instruct the jury,
" 1st. That it is not competent for thc jury to find,
fiom the evidence so produced as aforesaid, that the
twelve books of tickets including the said prize ticket, had been, prior to the commencement of the drawing of the said lottery, appropriated by plaintiff and
defendant to the satisfaction of said contract, and
delivered to plaintiff under and in fulfilment of said.
contract, and deposited by the plaintiff with the defendant, as 'collateral security for the payment of
the purchase money until other security should be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

given, ,as was contended and insisted upofi by the
1816.
plaintiff's counsel to the jury,") which instruction the "Tb6mpson
'
court refused to give.
"2d. That the facts so given in evidence by the
plaintiff, as aforesaid, do not import an absolute sale
and de!ivery of the twelve books of tickets, includinc the prize ticket, but a .selection and setting apart

of suchi tickets as were to be delivered to the pkL;n-.
tiff, when.he should comply with his contract in giving the stipulated security." Which instruction the
court gave, but also directed the jury, " that such
selecion and setting apart, as aforesaid, was sufficient
delivery to the plaintiff to vpst the pioperty of the'
said tickets in him upon his giving or tendering approved security, according to the terms of the cohtract, in a reasonable time thereafter; ard that-the
tender of the security, as before stated, was in reasorable, time.
" 3d. That the selection and laying apart of the
twelve books of tickets, as aforesaid, anl the saideadoi'sements upon the said books, and upon the enver
lope of the sanie, did not vest in the plaintiffthe property of said tickets, under the said contract, so as
to entitle plaintiff to prizes drawn against those tick.
ets before any security, was given or offered, and
whilst said tickets remained in the hands of defendant, awaiting the completion of- said contract on
the'part of the plaintiff in respect of the stipulated
security." Which inistruction the court gave, but
also instructed the jury, .1 that upon tendering the
security, as before stated, if the jury should find such
security to be sufficient, such selection and laying

V.

Gray.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

18i6.

apart of the said tickets did, under the said contract.
Sentitle the plaintiff-to all the prizes drwn by such

Thompson

V.

Gray.

tickets in the intermediate time between such selection and the tender of security, as aforesaid ;" to
which refusal and several instructions the defetdant
excepted, and a verdict and. judgment haying been
rendered for the plaintiff below, the defendant in the
circuit cdurt brought the-cause into this court by a
writ of error.

Jones, for the plaintiff in error. 1. The ticket
was at the risk of the vendors, and dirawing the
prize is equivalent to any physical change in'the
thing. It was not left in the hands of the vendors
as collateral securitr, for the pledge of the ticket
would have thrown upon the vendors the whole risk
of the drawing of these tickets, the essence of their
value consisting in the chance. On the contrary, the
thing wa to remain in the vendors' possessionand'as
their property, until a condition of the sale had been
accomplished. 2. There is a repugnancy between
ret -sing the first instruction and granting the second.
The court below admit tbat the right of property
was not complete in Gray, until the security' stipulated ; and that, when given, it would retroactively
vest the property. The title was then clearly incomplete.
Swann, contra. The contract was consummated
an: binding on both parties.* Gray's proposition
a 6 East, Hanson v. avlyer.
Sbadbolt.

I Carnpbell sN. P.

. 427. Paine v.

OP THE UNITED STATES.

Was accepted, some of 'le tickets were actually delivered; there was a payment of what may be considered as earnest. The thing sold was specifically
designated by the vendors.
The vendee had the
tight of property, and the right of possession.
All he wanted was the actual possession. The
thing sold maybe designated in various ways.' Property is transferred by the contract of sale without
'delivery, if the article is specifically designated.

1816.
Thompsoa

v,.

Jones, in reply. There is a distinction between
This case and the-authorities relied upon by the other
side. 'The question is, whdther the contract be executory or executed. It was not executed by specifying the particular ticket; the security to be given
by Gray was a condition which p3reserved the original executory nature of the contract. Delivery,
either actual or symbolical, is essential to a sale;
and neither took place here. The cases cited are
of contracts self-executory, and where the parties
stipulated to waive delivery.
J., delivered the opinion of the
court, and, after stating the facts, proceeded as
follows:
The question on which the correctness of the
otInons gi,,en by the circuit court depenus, is this :
Was the purchase and sale of the twelve books not
delivered, so complete, that the tickets had become
the property, and were at the risk of Robert Gray ?
MARSHALL, Ch.

b 2 Black. doin. 447.-.Salk. 113.
c 1 Campbell's .N. P. R. 513. Phillmore et al. v. Barrv P al.
East, 558. I-linde v Whitehouse et al.
1
VOL. I.

Fe,. 27.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.

"
Thompson

V.

Gray.

In pursuing-tus inquiry it becomes necessary ta
decide, whether the clause respecting security form,
a condition precedent, on which the sale is made to
deliend, or a condition ubsequent, the performance
of which may be suspended until it shall be convenient to-the vendee, or required by the vendor. It is
apparent that a contract for the sale of .5,000 tickets
was one of very considerable interest to the managers of the lottery. This is not only self evident
from the nature of the transaction, but is also proved
by the fact, that they changed the scheme of the lottery for the purpose of securing it.. As the time of
commencing the drawing must necessarily have depended on the sale of the tickets, it is reasonable to
suopose, that, in the calculations made on this subject, they must have considered the books selected
and set apart for Mr. Gray, either as sold or unsold.
The endorsements on the books selected lead strongly to the opinion, that they wverc. considered as sold.
If the proposition which forms tiue basis of the contract be inspected, it will be perceived that th6 contiact was intended to be entire, not divisible. The
scheme of the lottery was changed, not for the purpose of inducing Gray and Milligan to take any number of tickets less than 5,000, but on their engaging
to take 5,000 absolutely; and the clause respe.-tfng
the securit, is annexed to the delivery of the tickets.
The delivery of some of the books was an execution
in part of an entire contract. All the circumstances
show, that the obligation of the contrat was coniplete: but ihe examin-ation .,f
these circnmstances

OF THE UNITED STATES.

is dispensed with by the admission on record, that
it "became a binding contract between the parties."
0

What, then, was this binding contract?
That the scheme proposed by Milligan and Gray
should be adopted. and 'certain facilities of payment
allowed, on their bond to the company for tickets
taken in the first class. That they should, on their
part, take 2,506 tickeits each.i, the second class, and
that approved security should be given on their delivery. Certainly Milligan and Gray were absolutely
bound to take 2,500 tickets each. , A refusal to do
so would have been a breach of contract, for whidh
they would have been responsible in damages. When
the parties proceed one step further; when tbe vendee, in execution of this contract, selects the number
of tickets he has agreed to purchase, and
the veidor assents to that selection; when they are separated fiom the mass of tickets, and those not actually delivered are set apart and marked as the property of the vendee; what, then, is the state of the
contract ? It certainly stands as if the selection had
been previously made and inserted in the. contract
itself. An article purchased in general terms front
many of the same description, it' afterwards selected
and set apart with the assent of the parties as the
thing purchased, is as completely identilied, anti as
completely sold, as if it had been selcctcd previous
to the sale, and specified in the contract. After
this selection, the parties stood in the same relation
to these tickets as it' the 25 books, afterwards
agreed upon, had been named in the contract as
containing the numbers purchased by Gray. Tb'

1816.
Thompson

VT.

Gray,

CASES IN THE SOPREME COURT

84

1816.
Thompson
v.
Gray.

con tract, then, amounts to this: The managers agrec

to sell Gray 2,500 tickets, w] ich are specified, and
he agrees to give approved security for the purchase
.,

I

L

money on the delivery; in the mean time the tickets
remain in possession of the vendors, who proceed
to draw the lottery, without having received or requiited security for the whole number of tickets
sold. The stipulation respecting security could not
in such a case be considered as a condition precedent, on the performance of which the sale depended. Certainly, the managers could have required,
and have insisted on this security; but they might
waive it, without dissolving the contract. They
were, themselves, the judges, whether they would
consider the contract of Robert Gray, with the collateral security furnished by the possession of the
ticketb, as sufficient for their protection; and their
conduct shows that they thought it sufficient.
The rhajority of the court is qk opinion, that the
property in the tickets changed"ihen the selection
was made and assented to; and that they remained
in possession ,f the vendors merely as collateral se-

curity. Had the tickets been all blavks, Gray was
compellable to take them.
Judgment affirmed with costs.'
d When commodities are sold
by the bulk, for a gross price, the
sale is perfect, for it is known
with certainty what is sold; but
if the price is regulated at the
rate of so much for every piece,
pound, or measure. the sale ii not

perfect, except only as to so much
as is actually counted, weighed.
or measured; for, till then, it is
not known with certainty what is
sold. 3 Johns. Cas. 254. Coit v.
Houston.
Domat. 1. 1. tit. 2. s.
4. rt. 7. Code .Napoleon, liv.

