OF THE UNITED STATES.
1816.
f'he Mary
and Susan.

(PRIZE.)

'he.1fary and Susan.--G. & H. VAN

W GENEN,

ClaimantsWhere goods were shipped in the enemy's country, in.-pi'rsuance of
orders from this country received before the declaration of war, but
previous to the execttion of the orders' the shippers became embarrassed, and assigned the goods to certain bankers to secure advances made by them, with"a request to the consignees to remit the
am'?unt to there, (the bankers,) and they also repeated the same request, the invoice being fqr account and risk of the consignees, but
stating the goods to-be thein the property of the bankers, it was held,
that the goods having ben purchased and shipped in pursuance of
orders from the consignees, the property was originally vested in
them, and was notdevested by the in terrhediate,,dssignment, which
was merely intenaed t9 transfer the right'to -the debt due from the
consignees.

from the circult court- for the district 6f
New-York.. The goods in question were part of the
cargo of the ship Mary andSusan a merchant vessel
of the United States, which was captured on the "3
of September, 1812, by the Tickler, a private"ambd
vessel of the United States. Thecargo w~s libelled
as prize of war; this portion claimed by Messrs. G.
& H. Vani Wagenen, and condemned in the district -couit. In the circuit court this sentence was
reversed, and restitution to the claimants was ordere4; from which decree the captors appealed to this
court. The cause having been heard in both the
courts below, on the documentary evidence found on
board, the original order for the goods does rntt appear. That they were sh;pped in conseque re of
APPEAL

Vot. 1.

D

26

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

orders, is, however, suffiCiently proved by the letteri
to the claimants, and the other papei:.
The Mary
and Susan. which accompanied them. These are, 1. An invoice
18163.

Saddressed

headed in the words following:
"Birmingham, 8th July, 181 .
Say 15th .March, 1011.
" Inloice of fourteen casks and four baskets of hartware, bought by Daniel Cross & Co. by order, and for
account and risk, of G. & H. Van Wagenefi, Merchants,
New-York, marked and numbered as per margin, and
forwarded on 4th March, 1811, to care of Martin, Hope,
& Thornley, Liverpool, and by them'afterwards transferred to the care of T. apd W. Earle & Co. of Liverpool ; which goods are now the property of Messrs. Spooner, Attwood & Co.,'Bankers, of Birmingham, to whom

-'on will please to remit the amount of this invoice."

And containing at the foot, after the enumeration of
the articles and their prices in the usual form, the following charges:
c

" AimountofInvoice, £ 1041
Commission 5 per cent.
52

0
1

£ 1093

2

o

651~

S

14

10

6

Z1203

4

6

"Freight to Liverpool,
Etitry and Town Dues,
Cartae, porterage, and
cooperage,
Bill of Lading,
Export Duty 4 per cent.
Broker's Commission forwarding,

-

Commission 5 per cent.
Insurance on the Mary and
Susan. Amount and pre-"
miiam covered by £1300,).
at2 1-2 guineas per cent.
and policy 78 shillings,
J
Coimission for effecting insurance at 1-2 per cent. t

£ 12 18
6
4 15

0
0
0

3

6

11 1-2
0 1-2

40 4 0
4 3 0
62 9 6
3 2 6

38

0

G

6 10

C

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Ain't brought forward,
Canal insurance to Liverpool 1-2 per ct. on £1041
5 4
0 11 1-2
615
6 15
fire,
Insurance against
15 0
Warehouse rent in Liverpool,
1
Twelve months Interest on
5
£1041 0 11 1-2 at5per
cent.

£ 1203

4 6

0

The Mary

0
0
0

and Susan.

79

0

0

£1 282

4

6"

2. A bill of lading in the usual form, stating that
the goods were shipped by Thomas and William
Earle & Co' of Liverpool, to be delivered to the
claimants, or to their assigns, in New-York. "3. The
tw6 following letters;
"Birmingham, 8th July, 1812.

"Messrs. G. & 1-I.

1616.

VAN WAGZN1X.

.s GEaTLEMii,

"In consequence of the ievocation of the British Orders in Council,
on th first day of August next, we have'lost no time in shipping the
go ds sent toLiverpool so long since, agreeable to your kind order.
They are in the Mary and Susan, a most beautiful new vessel, to sail in
all this week; the freights are very high, 70s. for measurement to NewYork, and 80.q. to Philadelphia, and at this moment nothing less will
be taken. lre, therefore, thought you would prefer to have the
goods at this rite, rather than wait fora reduction in the freight, which,
we doubt not, will soon take place. By th letter of our friends,
Messrs. Spooner, Attwood & Co., herewilh, you will perceive the interruption to commerce has been an in.convenience to us as young mcr-.
chants; but the unneighbourlv conduct of the old'hoise will only serve
to prompt us to new exertion' for our friends i.a the States, for whose
interest nothing shall be omitted within our power. lVe shall certainly ser'e ° them as well, if not on -better terms, than heretofire. We
will not be undersold'. In a few days we shall send Kr. Oakley, for
'the use of our friends, a new and complete sei of patterns, whichi we
trust,.will miet with their approbation. Mr. 0. and Messrs. B. W]Rogers & Co. will be able to give you morc particulars respecbog
what has passed on this side. The amount of invoice herewith to your
debt is 820L 2s. Id., which, agreeable to the letter of Messrs. Spooner.
Attwood & Co. you will-please to remit to them vu arr.val of the goods ;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
but hereafter things will move in the usual channel. Waitingyour further favours,
"We remain, Gentlemen, your most obedient servants,
The Mary
and Susan.
"DANIEL CROSS & Co."
1816.

*

"Messrs. G. & L VAN

"Birmingham, 9th July, 1812.
Merchants, New-York

WAGENEN,

" GNTLEMLN,

"In consequence of the late unfortunatestate of affairs between this
country and the United States of America, great inconvenience and
distress have naturally been experienced by the merchants and manufacturers here. Among others, our friends Messrs. Daniel Cross &
Co. have been cbnsiderably embarrassed, and have received great relief and assistance from our. house. We were induced to extend this
assistance, as bankers, from motives of friendship' and regard, and
under the hope that the unnatural state of affairs between the two
countries could not possibly last long; but as it was necessary that our
assistance should be very considerable, we thought it right to obtain
from them an assignment of certain quantities of goods which they had
provided on account of your house, and of sevenal others in the United
States, previous to the 2d of February, 1811. We are thus introduced
to your acquaintance, and we beg leave to send you herewith an invoice of the goods which Messrs. Daniel Cross & Co. had purchased for your account, and which are now forwarded to you, requesting
that you will remit tn amount, 8201. 2s. 2d., to us at your earliest convenience. We cannot conclude this letter without expressing our
satisfaction at the services we have had the opportunity of rendering
to Messrs. Daniel Cross & Co., whom we 'onside& to be persons of the
greatest integrity and knowledge of business, and without earnestly
recomniending them to your future attention. We are convinced
that their late difficulties will not at all affect their future proceedings,
and' that they will henceforth be enabled to carry on their business in
the same regular and punctual way as they have formerly done; and
we cannot but flatter ourselves, that as tlie orders in council are now
revoked, and the British government has become alive tothe true
interest of the British people, the natural relations between the two
-countries will long continue, and that the connexion between Your
respectable house and Messrs. Daniel Cross & Co. will be productive of permanent and mutual advantages. With best wishes for your
prosperity and happiness and that of your country,
"We are, respedfully, Gentlemen, your obedient hunlde servants,
" SPOONER, A'TTWOOD & Co. Bankers, Birmingham,
-Messrs. G. & H. VAN WAGErtu, Merchants, New-York."

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Hofian, for tihe appellants and captors. 1St. Probably a delivery from Cross & Co. to the ship masler would have been, in contemplation of law, a
delivery to the claimants. But Attwood & Co. were
the shippers, between whom and the claimants there
was no privity. There is no proof that Cross & Co.
ever accepted the order or commission sent to them
by 'the claimants. There was a sale and delivery
of the goods from Cross & Co. to Attwood & Co.,
and the or'der was executed by strangers to the
claimants. Could any action have been maintained
by the claimants against Attwood & Co. J None
could have been maintained, even- against Cross &
Co. 'Possibly, if they had agreed to accept the commission, a special action on the case might have
been brought against them as factors. But by the
assignment to the bankers they disabled themselves
from executing the order. The bankers did not
acquire the mere lien; they would not have been
secure without the absolute dominioh of property.
They, were not'obliged to ship, nor the claimants to
receive. Both parties might, or not, according tu
their interest. Suppose the goods had been lost in
their transit, could Attwood & Co. have maintaiied an action for the price against the consignees ? I
anticipate the unanimous answer of the court in the
negative. SuppQse tle goods should be condemned
as prize of war, could the bankers recover against
the claimants ? No! neither in consequence of a
physical nor a legal loss. The case 'of Dunham &
Randolpha is conclusive of the present. Attwood
a Case of the Frances, Feb. Term, 1814, and 1815.

1816.
The Mai7

and Susan.

CASES ,N
1816.

THE SUPREME COURT

& Co. exercised acts of ownership on the goods

after the- transfer to them, and until the lading on
and Susan. board. The claimants could not have received the
h

goods without paying Atwood & Co. They may
have had an interest in paying Cross & Co., their
correspondents, who may have bad their funds in
possession-who may have been their debtors. They
had an -election precisely as the claimants in the
Frances had.
Dexter, for the respondents and claimants. The
possession of the goods was cofitinued in Cross & Co.
by their agents at Liverpool, Earl & Co., who ship.
ped a their, and, consequently, as our agents, bn
board a general ship, to us, for our account and risk.
When the goods were first put in motion, their transit
to New-York began, and they were, in effect, delivered to the consignees at that port. Some act o
the correspondent in Europe may be necessary' tc
show that he elects to consider the goods, after being purchased of the manufacturer, as the 1roperty
of the merchant in America. But such an act existed in this case; and the pr6perty changed when the
goods were .delivered to the common carrier on the
canal from Birmingham to Liverpool, i. e. in 1811.
The carrier was the bailee of the consianees in law,
and the goods were at their risk from that time. It
way be true that the bankers cannot maintain a suit
agaiinst us; but it may be tue that the property,
nevertheless, vests in us. The only doubt whethe"uch a suit could be mwntained, is, that the debt due
to Cross & Co. being a chose in action. could noi be
transferred. Still, the right to it subssts in them,

OF THE UNITED STAT9ES

vho may sue the claimants on account of the advances made by order from them.

It is, therefore,

immaterial which of the two parties in England may
maintain the action. Except for the intervention of
the capture and prize proceedings, the goods are delivered, and the claimants are debtors for the price.
A bill of lading drawn in consequence of an order to
ship goods, transfers the property to the consignee.
-There is no copy of what is termed the assignment;
but it is easy to see that its object was not to defeat
the arrangement, or the subsisting relations of creditor and debtor between Cross & Co. and the claimants; but merely to enable the bankers to receive
their money from the consignees. Either the assignment was a sale, or a mere naked authorityto'receive payment from the claimant.. If a sale, then
was it invalid for want of delivery; if an authority
only, then the right, of property remains where it
was, though it is possible the bankers would have
been entitled, in equity, to receive th6" money. The
expression in the hea'ling of the invoice, "which
goods are now the property of Messrs. Spooner, Attwood & Co," only proves them to be bad lawyers
and bad logicians. Probably they are ignorant of
the distinction between general and special property.
The r s gest,3 do not warrant a pretension of general
property in them, and we deny the conclusion they
have drawn. Nothing passed but a right to receive
the price of the goods. They had not even a lien, or
other legal right, because they -never had the possession; and, in whatever way they might have enforced
their claim, they meant nothing more by it than :

1816.
The MaIry

and Susat.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

confident expectation, founded on mercantile courThe Mary
Mary tesy, that the claimants would pay them. The oriThe
and Susan. ginal arrangement was to subsist, and Cross & Co.
were, in fact, the shippers. Even supposing they
have not fulfilled our order literally and strictly; suppose a right of election in the consignees to receive
or reject the goods; are we not to wait for this election ? Can they lose the property before this election
is made? An irregularity or defect in the execution
of their order may give them a right of action against
their correspondents in a court of municipal law for
damages; but if the, rule of the prize court be, that
the property must be vested in the claimants at the
time of shipment, they are entitled to rest':ution in
the present case.
181.6.

Pinkney, for the appellants and captors, in reply.
The question is, in whom did the property vest at the
time of shipment, or at the time of capture? The
claimants could not make an efficacious election after
capture, because the rights o"the captors interposed
befoire any election could be made. If these rights
had not thus interposed, then the power of election
might be exerted. Therefore, the question stated
is the only controversy in the cause. Take the
transaction by its stages; break it up into its constituent parts: at what epoch-through the instrumentality of what circumstances, did the property pass
to the claimants ? If it did not so pass, it was, on the
ocean, the prope.rty of an enemy, and, therefore, liable
to capture and confiscation. The orders are not here;
but will the documentary evidence, now before the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

court, justify restitution ? 1. Did, then, the first pur-

chase vest the property in the claimants? In the Frances, it was determined, that it had no such effect; and
the doctrine is upheld by all principle and all analogy.
2. The goods were sent to Liverpool, .and they still
remained the property of Cross & Co. The delivery in the vehicle on the canal was inland, and preparatory to the maritime delivery. The agents ofCross
& Co. at the outport were not agents of the claimants, nor liable to them in an action. The claimants
were not bound, nor could -they take possession at
this epoch. Suppose Cross &Co. had become bankrupt, would the goods have vested in them? or would
they have been obliged to ship? 3. Consider the
legal effect and circumstances of the assignment.
Cross & Co. were the complete proprietors of the
goods, and the present claimants could not have
shown themselves in a court ofjustice. The parties
considered the transfer to have changed the property, and they knew better what they had done than
the court can know. It'must, therefore, have been
calculated and adapted to change the property; the
bankers could have had no indemnity otherwise.
They. must have had a discretion to dispose of the
goods; and had they become bankrupts, their, assignees must have had the same discretion. There is
always a locus penitentie in the vendor before delivery; (as to the right of property I mean, not as to
the right of action in the vendee;) the caprice of
the vendor may influence him to change the direction
of the property. Had the right of the claimants
been a vested right, the vendor in England might
VOL. L

E

imle.
The Mary

and Susan.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

34

1816.

have brought an action against them at any stage of
At what epoch could either he or

Th ' Mary

the transaction.

anu sula,

the bankers have brought such an action ? The remaining question is as to the concurrent act of both.
Did those acts veft a right to the price in either? or
was it in the election of the claimants to receive the
commodities ? The intervening assignment to th;
bankers sundered the'merchants iin England from the
claimants; it deprivbd them of their ability to ob.y
the original order; .ll privity of contrabt between
the principal and agent was gone. There was no
obligation on the part of Attwood & Co. to ship ;no
authority; no power; no right! How is it that the
rights of war on the property are to be defeated? By
showing au authority to ship? It exists not. The
question is strictijuri;the claimants are not bound
to acquiesce in the new, state of this transaction;
they have an election to do so or not. Had the
goods arrived without interruption at their port of
destination, the claimants might have accepted them,
and thus adopted the new state of the transaction, and
the new parties to it. But the rights of war inter,
cept transfer. The consignees are not liable for the
retrospective charges at the foot of the invoice, unless the goods had been shipped by the agent, and
received by the principal. The usage of trade is.
that the factor always charges these expenses; were
it otherwise,.it would follow that the property would
?lways be transferred on the first purchase, contrary
to. the express authority of the Frances, with which
the pre~ent case coincides in principle.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
MARSHALL, Ch. J., delivered the opinion of the
isio.
court, and, after reciting the documentary evidence,
The Mary.
proceeded as follows:
and Susan.
Upon these papers it is contended by the captorsi Feb. 13th,
that the goods remained the property of Darfiel Cross
& Co. until the transfer to Spooner, Attwood & Co.,
when they became the property of the assignees;
that this change of property so operates upon the
subsequent shipment as to make it a shipment without order, and to leave it in the election of G..& H.
Van Wagenen, to accept or reject 'the goods; and
that this right of election is terminated by the intervening right of th6 captors.
Oni the part of the claimants it is contended, that
their right commenced with the purchase, which was
made by their order, and for their account and risk,
and was completed When the goods were forwarded
to Liverpool: that if this point be determined against.
them, still the whiole transaction evidenices an intention to assign the claim of Daniel Cross & Co. to
Sp~oner, Attwood & Co., so as to give them a right
to receive the money, but not in. any manner to affect
the interests of G. & H. Van Wagenen.
Whether Messrs. G. & H. Van Wagenen became
the owners of the goods on their being sent from
Birmingham to Liverpool, must depend on the orders under which Daniel Cross & Co. acted. If
their'authority was general- to ship to G. &.H."Van
Wagenen, the goods might, according to the circumstances of the purchase, remain the property of
Daniel Cross & Co. until they were delivered to the
master of the veBsel for the purpose of transport-

56

CAStS IN THE SUPREME COURT

tion. If they were directed to purchase the goods,
and to store them in Liverpool as the goods of G. &
The Mary
aud Susan. H. Van Wagenen, to be afterwards shipped to the
United States, it appears to the court that the property changed on being sent to Liverpool, and immediatelyvested in the American merchants for whom they
were purchased. The testimony respecting the orders is found in the letter from Daniel Cross
& Co. to G. & H. Van Wagenen. The words of
that letter which bear particularly on this point are,
"In consequence of the revocation of the British
Orders in Council, on .the first day of August next,
we have lost no time in shipping the goods sent to
Liverpool so long since, agreeably to your kind order." This language is not equivocal. It imports,
in terms not to,be misunderstood, that the goods were
sent from Birmingham to Liverpool, in, consequence
of the orders of Messrs. G. & H. Van Wagenen.
This letter is addressed. to the house which had giverk
the order, and was written without an existing motive for misrepresenting that order. There is certainly nothing in the circumstances of the transaction
which would render it probable that the order must
be represented in this letter, either carelessly or intentionally, in any manner different from that which was
really given. The situation of this country during,
what has been termed our restrictive system was notoriously such as to render it an object with every
importing merchant to use the utmost despatch ia
bringing in his goods so soon as they should be legally admissible-. Nothing, therefore, can be moze
probable than that orders for making purchases
1846.

.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

which were to be executed at an inland place, by a 1816.
"" Mary
house residing at such place, would be accompanied The
with orde-s directing them to be conveyed to a sea- ana susa.
port, there to be held in perfect readiness for
exportation. In the usual couise of trade, if the
purchasing and shipping merchant be the same,
there Would rarely be any actual change of property between the purchage and the shipment of the
articles, nor could we expect to find any extrinsic evidence of ownership, other than the mere possession;
but in the state of trade which existed at the time of
this transaction, stch change, and the evidence of it,
may be reasonably expected. In the common state
of things, the whole order respecting purchase-and
shipment, where the same agent is employed4 , is executed with expedition, and is, in appearance, one
transaction. In the actual state of thingsi the purchase was to be made immediately, but the-shipment
was to take place at some future indefinite period.
It would depend on an event which might be very,
near or very remote. It became a divided transaction, or, rather, two distinct operations. We look for
Fme intervening evidence of ownership in the person
•br whoin the purchase was made,and are not surprised atfinding it. If,in such a state of things, the goods
were procured under a general order to purchase,
but ndt to ship until some future uncertain event
should occur, and were, in the mean time, to remain
the property, and at the risk of the agent, they would
probably be retained at the lace of purchase under
his immediate control and inspection. Their conveynee to a seaport. there to be stored until their im-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816

portation into the United States should be allowed,
was such a fact as would scarcely have taken place
The Mary
2nd Susan. without special orders, in the course of which an actual investment of the property in the person by
whose order, and for whose use, the goods were purchased and stored at a seaport, is not unreasonably
to be expected. The court considers this letter, then,
as proving incontestibly that the goods were conveyed to Liverpool, and there stored, to be shipped on
the happening of some future event which it was supposed would restore the commercial intercourse betwecn the two countries, in pursuance of specific orders
from the claimants; and is further of opinion, that the
transaction itself furnishes strong intrihsic evidence
that the goods, when stored in Liverpool, were
the goods of the claimants, subject to that control
over them which Daniel Cros & Co. would have
as the purchasers, and intended shippers, who had
advanc.d the money with which they were purchased. IHowever this control and lien might be used
for their own.security, it could not be wantonly used
to-the destruction -of the 'property of G. & H. Van
Wagenen, and any conveyance to a person having
iiotice of their rights ought to operate, and be considered as intended to operate, consistently with them,
so far as the two rights could consist with each
other, The words, then, in the invoice, which represent the goods as the property of Spooner, Attwood
& Co., are introduced ivith no other object than to
secure the payment of the purchase money to them.
The invoice made out by Spooner, Attwood & Co.
themselves, states the merchandise it specifies to have

OF THE UNITED STATES.

39

been purchased by Daniel Cross & Co., by order, and 1816.
-"'
on accouit and risk of Messrs. G. & H. Van •Wage- The
Mary
nen, and to have been forwarded to Liverpool more ana susan.
than*12 month's anterior to the date of the shipment.
Goods thus purchased, and thus conveyed to a seaport, and stored under the orders of the American
merchant, may well be considered ag leaving in the
purchasing agent only -the lien which a factor has
to secure the payment of the money which is due to,
him. If this was the true state of the property at the
tibie of the assignment to Spooner, Attwood & Co.,
they having full noice that the assignment 'c6uld
only bperats as an order for G. Si H. Van Wagenen
to pay the money to them, (Spooner, Attwood &
Co.) and wopld, prob1blj in its form and expres-.
sions, manifest this idea.
•The court is much inclined to the opinion, that these
goods became the property of the claimants on being stored- inLiverpool, if not at an antecedent time.
The question, however, would, undoubtedly, be affected by the order under which Daniel'Cross & Co.
acted; by the deed of assignment to Spooner, Attwood & Co.; and by other papers which are attainable. If, therefore, the case depended entirely upon
this point, farther proof might be required. But, in
the opiniori of the majority of the court, the case
does not depend on this point alone.
If the, goods were shipped in. pursuance of.the
orders given by G. & H. Van Wagenen, the delivery on board the ship was a delivery to them; the property was vested in them by tlhat act, and they had
po electign to accept or reject it.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
The Mary
and Susan.

In pursuing this inquiry, the legal effect of the
transaction must depend, in a considerable degree, on the intent of the parties, and that intent is,
in this case, to be collected chiefly from their letters'
and from the circumstances in which they stood.
G. & H. Van Wagenen were American merchants
des;,ous of receiving the goods they had ordered as
soon a the importation of ihose goods should be allowed. Daniel Cross & Co. were commission merchants of Birmingham, engaged in the American
business. Spooner, Attwood & Co. were bankers,
friendly to Daniel Cross & Co.; were desirous of
promoting their interests, and recommending them to
business, and had advanced them money while embarrassed by the difficulties consequent on the state"
of trade between the United States and Great Britain.
Spooner, Attwood & Co. were desirous, not of purchasing the goods stored at Liverpool by Cross &
Co. for the claimants; not of interrupting the shipment of those goods, or thb connexion between
Daniel Cross & Co. and G. & I. Van Wagenen;
but of permitting the shipment to proceed, and of receiving, themselves, the money to which Cross & Co.
were entitled. Such was the situation, and such the
objects of'all the parties: keeping this situation and
these objects in view, let the testimony be examined.
The letter of Daniel Cross & Co., dated the 8th of
July, 1812, is in the language of men who were
themselves the shippers of the goods. " We have
lost no time," they say, "in shipping t1 goods, sent
to Liverpool so long since, agreeably to your kind

order." They speak of the vessel and of the freight,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

as if the vessel were selected, and the contract
1816.
made, by themselves. " We thought you would T
prefer to have the goods at this rate, rather than and Susan.
wait for a reduction in the freight." They next refer to the letter of their friends, Spooner, Attwood
& Co., to show the inconvenience they had sustained as young merchants, but. without any indication
of an interference of that house in the shipment, and
conclude with saying, "the amount of invoice, herewith, to your debit, is 820L 2s. id., which, agreeably
to the letter of Spooner. Attwo6d & Co., you will
please to remit to them on arrival'of the goods."
This is the letter of an agent who has executed, completely, the order which had been given him; but
who, having been compelled to borrow money, ,had
transferred his pecuniary dlaims to his creditor.
The letter of Spooner, Attwood & Co. will next be
considered. It is dated the. day after that written
by Daniel Cross & Co. After stating their friendship for Daniel Cross & Co., and the aid tfforded
that house they add .4' but as it ivas necessary that
our assistance should be very considerable, we
thought it right to obtain from them an assignment
of certain quantities of goods which they had provided on account of your house, and of several
others in the United States, previous to the 2d of
February, 1811. We are thus introduced to your
acquaintance, and we beg leave to send you herewith an invoice of the goods Daniel Cross & Co. had
.purchased for your account, and which we now forward to you, requesting that you will remit the
amount of 820L 2s. ld. to us at your earliest conVoL. 1.

E

CASES IN THE SUPRIEME COURT

1816.
The

Mary
and Susan.

venience." Nothing is said in this l"tter respecting
the vessel by which the goods, were sent; nothing
indicating the exercise of any judgment by Spooner,
Attwood & Co., respecting the time or manner of
sending them; nor any thing which would lead to
the opinion that they interfered, in any manner
whatever, in the transaction of the business. On
comparing the two letters, the inference is inevitable,
that Daniel Cross & Co. continued to execute the
order of G. & H. Van Wagenen, in like manner as
if their affairs had never been embarrassed. The
contents of the two letters, in cpnformity with the
situation and views of.the parties, prove, that Daniel
Cross & Co. had only transferred to Spooner, Attwood & Co.their right to receive piayment for the
goods, and that the arrangeinents between them
were intended only to secure tlfpt object. The assignment of the goods mentioned in the letter of
Spoon@r, Attwood & Co. does not appear from the
contextand from the nature of the transaction, to
be intended to convey the idea of a sale, but to be
used in rather a different sense, as an assignment of
the adventure, or of the right to the debt due from
G. & H. Van Wagenen. Whatever may have been
the form of this assighment, it is apparent that it could
not have been made, and certainly was not made,
'With the intention of enabling Spooner, Attwood &
Co. to defeat the shipment to G. & H. Van Wagenen, or to control the proceedings of Daniel Cross
& Co., under the order they had received. Why,
then, are the goods, when put on board the Mary
and Susar, in pursuance of the orders of the claim-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ants, to be considered not their property, but as the 1816.
property of-Spooner, Attwood & Co.? It is said The Mary
that they were shipped by Spooner, Attwood &Co., and Susan.
not by Daniel Cross & Co.; that the confidence implied in the order for purchase and shipment was
personal, and could not be transferred or-executed
by another. Allow to this'argument all the weight
which is claimed foi it by the.counsel for the captors; what part of this personal trust was transferred.? What part of the order was executed by aly
otbei than Daniel Cross & Co. ? Tfie goods were
purchased, sent to Liverpool, stored, and, afterwards.
shipped by them. Every-other auxiliary part of the
trarsactioi. was, performca by them. Nothing appers.to baye beerdone in pursuance of orders from
SpQon.er, Attw6d & Co., but every thing in pursuancb of their own jUdgme.nt, actiig under the order
feceived from G. & H. Van Wagenen. On this
.ground the.claimants could raise no 'objections to
the conduct -of Daniel Cross & Co. But it is said,
that Dahiel -Cross & Co. might have had the funds
of G, & H. Van WYagehien in their hands, in -vhich
-.case the claimants would haye .be-n compelled, by
receiving the goods, to pay their amgunt to Spooner,
Attwood & Co.; consequently, ihis. assignment
mfist be considered as creating in Spooner, Afiwood'
& Co. new rights, which released G. & 11: Vati
Wagenen from the obligatioi! to receive tihe earg.
But Daniel Cross & Co. did .not purchase with th.
funds of the claimants. They purchased with their
own futfds. They inficted, therefore, no injury orn
the claimants by transferring their right to the fbo-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ney to Spooner, Attwood & Co. The effect of the
The MIary transaction is precisely the same as if they had
Pnd Stsan. drawn a bill in favour of Spooner, Attwood & Co.
for the amount of the invoice. It is said that the
assignment gave Spooner, Attwood & Co. an election to ship the goods, or to dispose of them otherwise, and that the necessary consequence of this
power of election, is a correspondent right of election in G. & H. Van Wagenen to receive or reject
them. The court does not view the transaction in
this light. The' assignment to Spooner, Attwood
& Co. is underst6od by the court, from the e-idence
furnished by the letters, and the circumstances and
objects of the, parties, to have been subject to the
right of Daniel Cross & Co. to execute, completely,
the order of the claimants. The inteiests of all
parties were best prQmoted by pursuig this course,
and they appear to have pursued it. The court
perceives nothing which can justify the opinion that
Spooner; Attwood & Co. had a right, or would have
been permitted, to intercept the shipment. Certainly it was neither their wish nor their inteiest to interrupt it. It is 'not reasonable, therefore, to suppose, that they would have created any difficulty in
obtaining a right to claim the amount of the invoice
from G. & H. Van Wagenen, by insisting on such an
assignment' as Daniel Cross & Co. would have been
unwilling to make, because it might have proved injurious to them, without benefiting the house they
meant to secure. It has also been argued, that the
orders most probably directed a shipment of the
goods when the non-intercourse should be removed,
1516.

'OF THE UNITED STATES.

and that a shipment before that time was without
16is.
orders, and at thq risk of the shipper. Tile court does The Mary
not think this probable. It is 'well known that. the and Susan.
continuance of the laws of non-intercourse was considered, as depending on the continuance of.the orders
in council. It is, also, perfectly clear, that .the Ametican merchant, who should permit, his goods- to remain in Great Britain until intelligence of the repeal
of the non-intercourse laws could be conveyed from
this. countrT to that, would be anticipated by all
others, and would bring them to a market already
supplied. Nothirig, therefore, would be more reasonpable than to' order them to be shipped on.,the revocation of the orders in council. This idea is suppQrted: by the letter of Paniel dros & Co. T-tat
letier indicates io doubt of the propriety of the
shipment.
Upon a view of the whole case, the majority -of
the couit is of opinion, that this is not a case in
which farther proof ought to be required,. and that
the goods by the Mary and Susan were.shipped in
pursuance of the orders of the claimants, and became their property when delivered, for theii use, to
the master of ,the vessel, if not at an earlier period.
Sentence of the circuit court affirmed with costiz.

