OF THE -UNITED STATES.

279

drawn, as no longer to affect the ships -into America, were prohi1816.
neutral rights of America; and bited.
the' orders in council not b'eing
On the 4th of April, 1812, an Mutual Ass.
rescinfhid,
embargo was laid in the United Society.
On the 2d of.February, 1811, Stat~s, and onthe 18th ofJune l- Watts' Exe.
the importation of British goods, lowing, war was, declared against
cutor.
and the admission of Britith Great.Britaib.

(LOCAL LA.

The MUTUAL

ASSURANtE SOCIETY V. WATTS-

xecutor.
Under the 6th and 8th sections of the act of Assembly of Virginia, of
the 22dof December, 1794, property pledged tf the Mutual Assurance Society, &c., continues liable for agsessments, in account of
tOe losses insured asainst, in the hands of i bonajldepurchaser without notice.
A more change of sovergignty produces no change in.the stat e of rights
existing in the soil; and the cession of the District of. Columia to
the national government did uot affect the lien created.by ihe abovp
act on real property situate in the tdyn of Alexandria, though the,
personal character oi liability bf a member of the sofi ty cduld not
be thereby forced on a purchaser of such property.

AP.PPAL

from the circuit court in the.District of Co-,

ulnbia for Alexandria county. The cause..was ar-.
gued by Swan, for the appellants, and by Taylor
and Lee, for the respondeii 4
3

0{NSOx,

follews:

3., delivered the 4inion of the court, as

March 16th.

280

CASES IN THE St'PREMIE COURT

This is a bill in chancery, filed by the complain;
1816.
a
ants,
to charge certain premises, in the possession of
,Mutual Ass.
the defendant, situate in the town of Alexandria, with
Watts' Exe- the payment of a suni of money, assessed in pursuance of the laws establishing the Mutual Assurance
.,,tor.
society
V.

Society, for quotas becoming due after his testator ac(quired possession. The executor has, in fact, sold
the premises, under a power given him by the testator, but the money remains in his hands; and it is conceded that the sole object now contended for is, to
charge the money arising from the sale of the land
estion with the assessment to which it is conin
tended that the land was liable. The insurance was
made in 1799, and the property sold to the defcndarit's testator in 1807, long after the town of Alexandria ceased to be subject to the laws of Virginia. It
is admitted that the sale was made without notice of
this incumbrance, (if it was .one,) and the quota demanded was assessed on the premises for a loss
which" happened subsequent to the transfer. The
points made-in the case arise out of the.construction
of the 6th and 8th sectious of the act of Virginia, passed the 22d of December, 1794. The 6th section is
in these words: "IIf the funds should not be sufficient,
a repartition among the whole of the persons insured
shall be made" and each shall pay, on 'emand of the
cashier, his, her, ortheir share, according to the sum
insured, and rate of hazard at which the building
stands, agreeably to the rate of premium, for which
purpose it is hereby declared that tm .subscribers,
as soon as they shall insure their property in the
Assurance Society aforesaid, do mutually, fot them-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.,elVes, their heirs, executors, .administrators and as1816.
signs, engage their property insured as security, and Mutual Ass
subject the same to be sold, if necessary, for the paS- society
V.
ment of such quotas." And the 8th section is in Watts' Exe
these words; "To the end that purchasers or mort- cutor.
gagees of any property insured, by virtue of this act,
may not become losers thereby, the subscriber selling, mortgaging, or otherwise transferring such property, shall, at the time, apprise the purchaser or
mortgagee of such assurance; and endorse to him
or them the policy thereof. And in every case of
such change the purchaser or mortgagee shall be
considered as a subscriber in the room of the original, and the property so sold, mortgaged, or othervise transferred, shall still remain liable for the payment of the quotas, in the same manner as if the right
thereof had remained in the original owner."
In the argument two points were made, 1st. That
property pledged to the society remained liable for
the quotas to a purchaser without notice. 2d. That
the purchaser, by the purchase of such property, although without notice, became, by virtue of the 8th
section, a member of the society, and liable, in all
respects, as such.
The second of these questions is now withdrawin
from the consideration of this court by an agreement
entered on record. And it must be admitted, that
whatever may be the strict construction of the 8th
section and its operation in the state of Virginia, so
far as it is intended to force on the purchaser a personal character or liability, it could have no operation
in the town of Alexandria, at the date of this transirnl. T

.2 N

282

CASES IN THP, SUPREM9 COURT

fer. The laws of Virginia had then ceased to be the
""' Ass. laws of' Ale ndria, and it could only be under an
Mutual
Society actually existing lawf operating at the time of the
Watts"Exe- transfer, that the character of membership in the
04r. Virginia company would be forced upon the purchaser. This is not one of those cases in which
tenure attaches to an individual a particular characteristic or obligation; such cases arise exclusively
between the occupant of the soil and the sovereignty
which preside.s immediately over the territory., The
transfer, therefore, of the district of Alexandria to
the national government, put an end to the operation
of the 8th section, so far as it operated by mere force
of law, independent of his own consent, to fasten on
the piurchaser tae.characteristics of a member. But
it is otherwise with regard to the soil. The idea is
now exploded that a mere change of sovereignty
produced any change in the state of rights existing
in the soil. In this respect everything remains in
the actual state, whether the interest was acquired
by law, under a grant, or by individual contract.a
.We consider the question, then, as reduced to this:
Does *property, pledged to the society, continue
liable for assessments in the hands of a bonafidv purchaser without notice, notwithstanding that he does
not become a member by the transfer?
Here we give no opinion on the extent or meaning
of the words "property insured," how far they will
operate to.charge the lands on'which buildings stand.
The question was not made in the argument, and is
1810.

aVide 6 Cranch, 199.

Korn v, The Mutual Assurance.Sciety.

OF THE UNITED 6TAT&S.

20

probably of noconsequence in.this or any other case. 1816.
We only notice it, in order that such a construction %
Mutual Asi,
may not be supposed admitted, as is too often con- Society
V.
cluded, becautsea court passes over a question sub Watt'
silentio.

Whatever be the property thus pledged, it is very
clear that the words of the .6th section are abun4antly sufficient tp create in it a cominon law lien,
not only in the-hands of the original subscriber, but
by ekpress words in those of -his assignee.. .If the
case xested here, there would be io doubt or difficulty; but every law, and every contract, must be const~ue'd With a reference .to the subject of that law qr
contract, and Which it is designed to answer. In this
view we readily concede, that the duration of the
lien could not extend beyond the. duration of the iiability of the subscriber to pay the premium; nor
cotild the liability of the subscriber extend beyond
the liability .of the company to indemnify him. On
the other hand,.it Would seem that as lQng as the
company could exact of the subs'criber the premium,
they ought to 'be held liable to indemnify him, It
will, then, be conceded that the liability of the subscriber, and of the company, are mutual, correlative,
and co-extensive, and it remains to be examined how
this concession affects the case.
It -is
very clear that theie are but three ways by
which a subscriber can cease to be a member:
1st. By the consumption of the buildings insured;
which results from the nature of the contract.
2d. By complying with the stipulations of the 9th
article of the rules and regulations of the society.

cutol

284

CASES IN THE SUPREME C.OURT

3d. By substituting a vendee in his place, in confor.
Mutual Ass..mity with the 8th section of the act of the 22d DeSociety cember, 1794. If, then, a subscriber has not become
1816.

V.

watts' Exe- discharged in one of these three ways, what is tQ
cutor.
prevent the society- from pursuing their summary

remedy against him? They are not bound to search
for his vendee, or to raise the money by a sale of
the property pledged; much less are they bound to
prosecute their remedy against a purchaser whose
name is -unknown to them, or who may be absent
from the state: or from the United States, or insolvent, or protected, at the time, by some legal privi.
lege. Their contract is with the original subseri.
ber; their rules point out the mod1e in which he is
to extricate himself from this liability, and if lie has
not pursued it, what defence is left him against a
suit instituted by the society? The court cannot
imagine one that could avail him. He cannot urge
that lie has parted with the property. The ruler
point out to him the conduct that he is to pursue in
that event. - He may give notice to the vendee of
the insurance, and tender an assignment. If the Yendec refuse to receive it, he is bound to remain but
six weeks longer under the obligation to pay his
quotas and indemnify the vendee, at the end of which
time he will be entitled to a discharge, upon giving
-duc notice, and complying with the other requisitions of the 9th section. Nor can he urge that he
has no longer any interest in the thing insured; this,
if any plea at .11, is none in his lips. It belongs to
the insurer to avail himself of it, if it belongs to any
oiie. But it is 4 plea hot true in fact; for lie conti-

OF

TIE UNITED STATES.

284

,ues to indemnify his vendee against the quotas that
181G.
may be assessed, which, by possibility, may reach to ATutud Ass.
the value of the whole property sold or insured; society
and, if correct in principle or fact, still this plea watts'V. Exe.
could ijot avail him, since it is in consequence of his Citor.
own folly or laches that he continues liable to pay
the premium of insurance for another's property.
-And should it be urged that this would be convertgn an actual insurance into a wager policy, two
answers may be given to it, either of which is sufficient; that there is nothing illegal in a wager policy,
in itself, and if there were, it is no objection in this
case, when it results from the constitution and lairs
of the society.
But it may be contended that the insurer is discharged, and, therefore, the liability for the quotas
ceases.
It is unquestionably true, as a general principle,
that where an insurer runs no risk, equity does not
consider him entitled to a premium; and, although
there exist some reasons in the policy and constitution of this society to apply it, in its fullest extent, to
this case, yet, to give the argument its utmost
weight, we are disposed to concede it. But what
has occurred in this case to discharge the underwriters from their contract? The subscriber was clearly not discharged from his liability to them, and this
single consideration furnishes a strong reason for
holding them still bound under their contract. What
has the 'subscriber done inconsistent with that contract? The only act he can be charged with, is
alienating, without endorsing, the policy. But aliena-

286

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tion alone is perfe'tly consistent with the contract,
f"*-,,,s
lBfutual
Ass. for the policy issues to him and his assigns; and
So far from interposing any obstruction to alienation,
Society
V.
1816.

Watts' Exe-

cutor.

provision is made for that very case, and unlimited

discretion vested in the subscriber to endorse his

policy to whom he p!eases. Nor is alienation, without endorsing the policy, considered in any more offensive light; inasmuch as the 8th section which enforces the assignment, declares expressly, that it is
for the benefit of purchasers and mortgagees, "to the
intent that they may not become losers thereby."
It is not pretended that it is for the society's own security; nor do they ever require notice to be given
them in case of such transfer of the policy. As to
them, thcrefore, it is an innocent dct, and we see
no ground on -which the society can be discharged, either to the vendor or vendee-they certainly
remain liable, and although it may be a question to
which of them equity would d'ecree the money, yet
to one or the other it certainly would be adjudged;
but it is not material to this argument which, as Itis
a question between the vendor and vendee.
If, then, the case presents no legal ground for discharging either insurer or insured from the contract,
and the lien created by the 6th section be c,)mmen.
surate with the liability of the insured, it will follow,
-that the plaintiffs, in this case, ought to have a de.
cree in their favour.
But we will examine, at a closer view, the liability of the property in the hands of the vendee. That
he is not liable to the summary remedy is evident
inom a variety of conpside rations. He must, then, be

OF THE UNITED STATES.

287

isme.
bruuglit into chancery to have his property subjected to the consequences of the lien, whenever a loss Mutual Ass.
bappens and a quota is assessed. In that case, his Society
defence will always be just what it is in this-that Watts'Exehe purchased without notice. But this was never
cuter.
held to be a defence to a bill to foreclose a mortgage,
which is precisely a similar case to this. Nor is it
any better defence to urge that he could derive nQ
benefit under the policy in case of a loss; for this is
precisely the same defence, a little varied, as will
be seen by supposing that the vendee of a mortgagor should plead, to a bill of foreclosure,,that the
money borrowed did not come to his use. But his
case is not as good as that of the vendee of the
mortgagor in the case supposed; for the 8th sectibn
makes provision for his relief. That section says.
" To tihe end that purchasers,-or mortgagees, of any
property insured, may not become losers thereby,"
the vendor shall give them notice, and endorse the
policy over. In what manner shallthe purchasers,
or mortgagees, become losers, unless the lien is to
continue on the property in their hands ? If the
vendor be guilty of the folly of paying the quotas;
and the vendee never receives notice of the lien,
through a demand from the society, there is no damage sustained. If he should be assailed with such
a demand, he has a right to require of the vendee an
assignment of the policy; and as there existed an original duty to make such an assignment, it may well
be held to operate, nuncyro tune, and carry with it
all the benefits of an original assignment.

CASES IN THE SUIPREME COURT

288

Society

But it is contended, that the 8th section explains
limits the 6th section in such a manner as to reA
strict the duration of the lien in the hands of the

Watts' Exe-

vendee to those casds only in which the transfer of

1816.

Sand

Mutual Ass.

cutor.

the policy also takes place.

This consequence cannot be logically maintained.
'
The argument is, that the -words "such change,
mean only a change of the property, attended with
en assignment of the policy, and that if the legislature had supposed that -property sold would, in the
hands of the vendee, remain subject to the lien, they
would not expressly have subjected it in such a case.
But this section will, with philological correctness.
admit of a different construction, and a construction
more cohsistent with legal principles, inasmuch as it
will not admit of an implication inconsistent with thei
preceding setion, and even with other parts of the
same sect;on. Nor, if the construction on which this
argument is founded were unavoidable, would the
conclusion follow which the argument asserts. The
juestion is, what is the meaning of the words " in.
everi change," in the section under consideration?
The solution is only to be found by referring to the
preceding andl only other clause of the same section:
and there we find, that a general provision is inevitably to be made for every possible change of sale or
purchase. The operation of the clause will, then, be
only to confirm and support the general words of
the sixth section, and if it left any d'ubt with regard
to the duration of the lien in the hands of the vendee,
to remove those doubts by express provision. This
,-onstritction is also the most consistent with the re-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

2-89

cital in the first clause of the same section, which, as
1816.
has been before observed, with another vicw, is Mutual" Ass.
founded altogether on the idea that property sold Society
remained pledged to the society in the hands of the watts' Excvendee, whether with or without notice; as, in that cutor.
case alone, could wEndees, or mortgagees, need th
protection held out to them in that clause.
But if a different construction could legally be
given to that section, so as to restrict the words
" every such case," to mean those cases only which
were attended with an assignment of the policy, it
would not follow that the lien ceased its operation
in all others. To apply to this case the maxim,
expressio unims est exclusio altcrius, would be a glaring
sophism. For, the only principle on which such a
conclusion could be founded would be, that the repetition of a legal provision, included, with many
others, in another law, produced a repeal of all others
by necessary implication. Such an implication may
be fesorted to, in order to determine the intention of
the legislature in a case of doubtful import, but cannot operate to destroy the effect of clear and unequivocal expressions. An obvious and unanswerable objection to giving this effect to this clause, is,
that it puts it in the power of the subscriber to exonerate the property from the lien by fhe single act of
sale, not even sustaining it fbr the term of six weeks
after the notice given of his intention to withdraw ;
an effect glaringly inconsistent, no less with the express words than with the general view of the law
on this subject. For there is nothing in the act
which obliges the vcndee to accept an assignumet.
vor, ,
-0

290

2ASES'IN THE SUPREME COURT

A tender to him, therefore, cannot subject him to
t
He does no more than
Ass. any onerous consequences.
AMutual
If,
then, the fien ceases,
Society
what
he
may
lawfully
do.
V.
watt' Exe- unlless he accepts the assignment,, and it is legally at
cutor.
his option to accept or refuse, the subscriber, in
1816.

having the right to sell to whom he pleases, has also
the duration of the lien submitted to his will.
Some difficulty has also existed in the minds of
some of the court on the contingent nature of this
lien, whether the lien was complete to all purposes
at any period before the assbssment of a quota.
But, on this subject, the-majority are of opinion, that,
as to legal incumbrancy, or duration of a lien, it
makes no difference whether its object is to secure
an existing debt, or a contingent indemnity. In the
ease of Black et al, mortgagees of Gardner, v. Kraig
& Mitchell, this court sustained a mortgage, given to
secure an endorser against notes which he might endorse, Where he bad entered into no stipulation to
endorse for the mortgagor. And, in the case of
bonds given for the discharge of duties, offices, or
annuities, it never was maintained as an objection,
that the object of the lien was future, contingent, or
uncertain. In this case the mutual stipulation to indemnify each other against losses operates as a perchase of the lien, and places the parties on strong
equitable grounds as to each other.
Some cases were cited in the argument from the
reports of decisions which have been made in the
courts of Virginia. This court uniformly acts under
the influence of a desire to conform its decisions to
those of the state courts on their local laws; and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

18t.
would not hesitate to pay great respect to those decisions, if they had appeared to reach the question
Mutual Av-:.
S
now under consideration. But they are persuaded Society
that those cases do not come up to the present. In Watt' Exc!
the case of Greenhow et al ,. Barton, (j .Munf.598.,) cutor.
it is truc, that the decision of the district court, which
was finally confirmed, was in favour of the purchaser without notice. But it was solely on the
question, whether he was liable to the summary remedy, or, in other words, liable generally, as a member. And the case of Anne Byrd, reported in the
cases of the general court, was likewise the case of
a motion for a summary judgment. In the latter
case, the .court went much further in charging the
vendee than this court is called upon to proceed in
the present case. But in neither of those cases was
a bill filed to charge the vendee, as in the present;
nor was the question brought up in either detached
from that of his general liability as a member.
The decree below will be reversed, and a decree
ordered to be entered for the complainants.
LIVINGSTON,

J., and

STORY,

J., dissented.
Decree reversed.

