OF THE UNITED STATES.

219
181O.
Morean
V.

(COMMON LAW.)
MOREAN v. THE UNITED STATES INSURANCE COMPANY.

The insurer on memorandum articles, is only liable for a total loss,
which can never happen where the cargo, or a part of it, has been
sent on by the insured, and reaches the original port of its destination.
Where the ship being cast on shore near the port of *destination, the
agent of the insuid employed persons' to unlade as much of the
cargo (of corn) as could ue saved, and .nearly one half was landed,
dried, and sent on to the port of destinatfon, and sold by the consignees at about one quarter the price of sound corn; this was held
not to be a total loss, and the insurer not to be liable.
ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Pennsylvania. This was an action commenced by the
plaintiff in error, upon a policy of insurance dated
the 14th.bf December, 1812, on goods on board the
brig Betsey, at and from Cape Henry to Lisbon, at a
premium of six per cent., on which 5,000 dollars
were underwritten by the defendants, and valued at
that sum, declared to be against all risks, except
British capture, warranted American property. The
jury found 'a verdict for the plaintif, subject to the
opinion of the court upon the following facti agreed
by the parties. The cargo consisted of 4,406.bushels
of indian corn, 100 barrels of navy bread, and 20
barrels of cornmeal. The brig sailed from"Baltimoie
on the lith of November, 1812, and frokn Cape
Henry on the 13th of the same month. She experienced, on the voyage, many and severe gales of

The U. S.
Ins. Co.

CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT

220

wind. On the 18th of December, she passed the
of Lisbon, and came to anchor about four miles
Morear
below Belem Castle. She leaked considerably in
V.
Imn.C.S" consequence of the injury she had sustained from
the severe gales to which she had been exposed.
After passing the rock the wind died away, and the
current being adverse, she came to anchor. The
master and supercargo landed, went through the
eq.tomary forms at Belem +o obtain a permit to pass
the castle, arid then proceeded to Lisbon. The health
boat Visited the brig, and ordered her to get above the
castleas soon as possible. On the 19th, she was again
exposed to a heavy and fatal gale, and drove ashore
near to Belem Castle, the sea breaking over her,
and the c :ew hanging by the rigging to preserve
their lives. ' The supercargo considered both vessel
and cargo as totally lost. By directions of the custom
house, as much of the cargo as could be got out, was
unladen by a'number of French prisoners who were
The cargo was all
employed for that purpose.
wet, and the part of it which was then taken out was
carried to thc fort, where it was spread and dried.
From thence it was carried to Lisbon in lighters, and,
was sold in the corn market by the consignee of the
cargo. The quantity so saved and sold amounted
to about 1,988 bushels, which was sold at 5G cents
a bushel, whereas the price of sound corn was 2
dollars and 25 cents a bushel. 'the supercargo petitioned for liberty to sell the corn at the place where
it was first deposited and dried, 'which could not be
granted, and he was obliged to submit to the custom
of the place, and allow it to be sold at the corn mar1816.

Srock

OF THE UNITED STATES.

221

fcet. The brig was so completelyw recked, that she
1816.
was sold, with her materials, where she lay, m lots..
Morean
Had the supercargo been left to the free-exercise of his TheT.
U. S.
own judgment, be would not have attempted to save
.
any part of the cargo, in consequence of the total

damage, and the gre.at expense of saving it. The
'not proceeds of the cargo were not much more than
the expenses of saving it, includinig those of the supercargo. The port of Lisbon commences above
Belem Ca~tle, and the cnstom of the place' is to dis-charge cargoes, of corn, between that castle and
Cantara, which latter place is from one to two miles
below Lisbon. The vessel never 'arrived ht her

port of discharge. On the 22d of December she
was entered at' the custom house by the Ameritan
vice consul, which he said was necessary; but port
dues do not attach to vessels till they pass the castle.
Still, as part of the cargo was carried ' to Lisbon,
the entry was made by the consul, and the dues
were paid. On the 11 th of March, 1'813,.the pj.a;ntiff, having received notice of the shipwreck, offei'ed
to abandon, which was refused. Upon these facts,
the circuit court gave judgment fdr the 'defehdants,
and the cause was brought by writ of error into this
court.
Pinknfy, for the plaintiff. By the shipwreck, abd
breaking up of the voyage, the plaintiiT was entitled
to abandon; and there is no distinction in law in
this "respect between memorandum aiticles and general articles. The wreck disabled the ship from
transporting the commodity, and the insured was tot

2,22
igie .
Mot-ean
Moreau

fU
Ins. C.

CASES

iN THE SUPREME COURT

obliged to find another vehicle to carry it on. Here
mote than a noiety of the thing insured was annihilated, to say nohing of the deterioration of the
rest. By the contract, -itbecame the duty of the
agent of the insured, to labour about the thing; and,
if the wreck and consequent damage justified the
right of abandonment, what effect can the conduct
of the supercargo haye ? The subsequent transportation can have no effect on the right 6f abandonment: the supercargo was compelled to carry it
on bytlie Portuguese government for the supply of
the capital. 'The law holds, that the insured shall
not abandon in the case of memorandum articles
upon deterioration merely. This is"not a mere technical total. loss ;.it is the same',thihg as if the 'aves
of the sea had washed this portion of the cargo up
to Lisbaon.- The usage of the government, in compellingr a-sale in such cases, must have been equally
known to bo'th parties, and ought to operate equally
on bbth."
ta per, contra. 1. A distinction is here attempted to b6 taken, on account of the nature of the peril
by wIhich the- loss was occasioned. Btt the law prescribes, that the inisured must carry on memorandum
aricles, if possible, in another vehicle. No degree
of injury, short of total destruction, will justify the
insured in abandoning without making an effort to
carry on 'the articles; and their actual arri- al at the
pert of destination, no matter how, prevents aban-,
doniment.a Ouf policies contain no stipulation simia .TIarshall on Insurance, Condy's ed. -23. and the cases there
cited.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

lar to those iri the English, as to "stranding of the
ship," in the case of memorandum articles. Wreck
cannot help the insured, where the consequence is

223
1816.
Mo~rean

v. S.'
Ins. U.
Co.
the destruction of the voyage only, without the ac- The

tual destruction of the thing. The right of abandonment exists, while the peril of total loss exists;
but when the article is saved from that peril, the
right no longer exists.' 2. The right of abandonment was not exercised in due time; not until after
the peril had ceased. Memorandum articles may be
abandoned while they are submerged, or the band
of the enemy is upon them; but here the loss of the
voyage was repaired by other means found to carry
on the goods before the abandonment is made." They
were transported, not by violence, but according.to
the usage of the. country; an4l the .parties must"be
considered in law as having assented to this usage.
Pinkney, in reply. If the insured was not obliged to carry on the commodities, and he would
have had a right to abandon at the time, nothing"
subsequent has de.vested it. The sole object of the
memorandum clause is to exempt the insurer from
liability for deterioration only, and the reason was
the inherent tehdencyof these articles to decay. The
destruction of the vehicle, and the destruction of
the greater part of the things transported, justified
b 1 Caines' R. 211. Magrath & ITHggins v. Church. 3 Caines"
1Z. Neilson et al. v. The Columbian Insurance Co. 9 Johns. R.
Sheiffelin v. The New-York Insurance Co. 2 Camp. XN.P. Cases,
623. Wilson v. The Royal Insurance Co. 7 East, 88. Anderson e)
al..v. The Royal rnsurance Co.
r Ibid.

'CASES IN THE ,SUPREME COURT
1810.
'

Morean

V.

the abandonment.. None of the-cases cited apply
to this case; atid theinsurer knew of the usage as
well, as the insured. If this case be determined not
to be a case justifying abandonnent,, on account of
the saving of so small a part, what case of abandonment of memorandum articles can exist? The
abandniment was in time, because made in good
faith, anid as soon as the insured knew of the peril,
J, dpliveIfed the opinion of the
.court, and, after statin& the facts, proceeded as fol-

March I1th. ' WASrHXGTON,

lows:
All considerations connected with the loss of the
cargo, ini respect to quantity qr value, iay,at once, be

dismissed from the case. As to memorandum articles,
the insurer agrees to pay. for a total loss only, the insured taking upon himself all partial losses without
exception.
If the property arrive 'at the port of'discharge, reduced in quantity or value, to any amount, the loss
cannot be said to be total in reality, and the insured

eannot treat it as a total, arid demand an indemnity for
a partial loss. There is no instance where the insured can demand as for a tot-' loss that he might
not have declined an abandonment,, and demand a

partial loss.

But if the property insured be includ-

ed within the memorandum, he cannot, under any

circumstances, call upon the insurer for a partial
loss, and, consequently, he cannot 'elect *to turn it
into a total loss. These principles are clearly established by the case of Mason v. .kurrayd Neilson
d At. V. P. 1730.

P,r,:. 116.

.M'arkall, Condy's ed. 223.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

v. The Columbian Insurance Company,' Cocking v. 1816.
"'
Frazer, M'Andrews v. Vaughan, Dyson v. Row- Moreau
.
croft, and Magrath and Huggins V.Church. The TheV.
U. .
only question that can possibly arise, in relation to Ins. Co.
memorandum articles, is, whether the joss was total
or not; and this can never happen where the cargo,
or a part of it, has been sent on by the insured, and
reaches the original port of its destination. Being
there specifically, the insurer has complied with his
engagements; every thing like a promise of indemnity against loss or damage to the cargo being excluded fi'om' the policy. If the question turn upon
the totality of the loss; unconnected with the subject.
of loss by deterioration of the cargo in value, or. re'duction iiquantity, there is no diflierence between
.memorandum and other articles.. Ifthe loss be total
in reality, or is such as the insured is permitted to
treat as such, he is entitled to aoandon and recover
as for a total loss in the case of mem6randum articles, but always with this exception, that he is not
permitted to turn a partial, into a total loss. Keep.
ing this distinction in view, the loss of the Voyage
by capture, shipwreck, or otherwise, may be treated
as itotal loss. This is the doctrine in the case of
Pyson v. Rowcroft, in which the right to abandon
was placed, not-upon the ground of deterioration of
the cargp, but upon the justifiable necessity which
resulted from it of throwing the cargo overboard :
e 3 Caines' Rep. 108. f Park, 114. Marshal, 227., Condy's ed.
i 1 Cain as'
h 3 Boe. 4-Pul.474.
g At..X. P. 1793. 1b.

Rp. 196.
1.
VOL.?.

2"26

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

.1816.
Morear

this was, In effect, tthe same thing as if it had, in a

storm, been swept from the deck.

Such, too, was

In Cocking v.
S. the case of Manning.. v. Newnhami
SFrazer no such necessity existed, and the breaking
up of the voyage was attempted to be justified by
the damaged state of the cargo, which, per se, did
not justify the insured in putting an end to the voyage, and thus to turn a partial loss, for which the insurer was not liable, infto a total loss. Magrath and
Huggins v. Church establishes the same doctrine.
Now, what is the present case ? The ship being
thrown on shore, within a mile or two from her port
of destination, the agent of the insured employs persons to unlade as much of the cargo as could be
saved, and nearly one half"was, by his exertions,
landed, dried, pnd sent to the market at Lisbon, and
sold by the consignees at about one quarter the price
of sound corn, leaving a very inconsiderable sum fdr
the -owrier, after paying the expenses. Is not this
preci.ely the case of Neilson v. The Columbian In-

U.
Trh--V.

surance Company, and Anderson v. the same,.' with
this difference only, that in the first case the insured
declined sending on the c6rn, when he might have
done so, and, consequently,, he was not permitted to
turn a partial into a total loss by his own neglect;
and, in the latter case, part of the cargo having
been rescued from the wreck, befQre the offer to
abandon was made, the insured could not claim as
for a total loss, either on account of the injury which

j Park,,

169.

k: 3 Calnes' Rep. 108.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

the corn had sustained, or of his own act in not sending it forward to its port of destination. In the case
now before the, court, the cargo which was saved
was sent forward and sold at the port of its destination.
In addition to the cases above referred to, the cases
of Biays v. the Chesapeake Insurance Conilpany,'
I February Term, 1813." This early as.the-year 1740, and, most
was an insurance on hides, "war- probably,-with the intention of
ranted by the assured free from protecting insurers against losses
average, unless general.". The arising solely from a deterioration
declaration was for a total loss by bf the article by its own perishable
perils of.the seas ; but it appeared quality, or whatever ambigufty
might once have existed, from the
in evidence that 3,288 hides (th
.whole number insured being term average being used in differ.
14,565) were put on board of a eat ser.ses, that is, as signifying a
lighter, to be transportetd from the contribution to a general loss, and
vessel to their place ofdestination ; also a particularor partialinjury
that the lighter, on the passage to falling on the subject insured, it
the shore, was sunk, by which was well *understood at th;. pre.
accident 789 of the hides, of the sent day,. with respect to such
value of 4,000 dollars, were totally articles, that underwriters are
iost, and the residue,to the number free from all partial losses, of every
of 2,491"were fished up and saved kind, which do not arise from a
at the expense of .6,000 dollars, contribution towards a general
which were paid by the. insured. average. Itonly remained, then,
The hides,thus saved, were deliver- to examine, (and so the question
ed to his agent, and sold on his had been properly treated at the
account. The whole sum insured bar) whether the hides which were
on the cargo vas 25,000 dollars. sunk, and not reclaimed, constituIn delivering the opinion of the ted a total or partial lois, within
court,it was remarked by LIv.NG- the meaning of this policy: It.had
sTON, J., that whatever might Leen considered as total by the
have been the motive to the in- counsel for the insured, but the
troduction of-this clause in policies court could not perceive any
-if insurance, whirb wag done as ground for treatin" it in that wav.

1816.
Morean
V.

The U. S.
Ins. Co.

228

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
Alorean

and Marcardier v. the same,.n in this court, arc
strongly applicable to the present, and seem, in a

V.

The U. S.
Ins. Co.

Inasmuch a out of many thousand
hides which were on board, not
quite 800 were lost, making in
point of value somewbh- less than
one sixth part of the sun insured.
If there were no memorandum in
the way, and the plaintiff had gone
on to recover, as in that case he
might have done, it was perceived
at once that he must have bad
judgment only for a partial loss,
which would have been ecvivalent
to the injury actually sUstaincd.
But, without having recourse to
any reasoning on the subject, the
proposition appeared too tell evident not to command universal
assent, that when only a part of a
cargo, consisting all of the same
kind of articles, is lost in any way
whatever, 'and the residue (which
in this case amounted to much the
greatest part) arrives in safety at
its port of destination, the loss
cannot but be partial, and that it
must forever be so as long as a
part continues to be less than the
whole. This, then, being a particular loss only, and not resulting
from a general average, the court
was of opinion that the defendants
were not liable for it.
m February Term, 1814. This
was al action on a policy of insurance for 31,000 dollars, upon
any kin~a of lawful goods on bcard

the brig Betsey, on a voyage from
New-York to Nantz. The cargo
was of the invoice value of 26;889
dollars, of which 7,439 dollars were
in memorandum articles.
The
brig sailed on the voyage, but was
compelled, by stress of weather,
and other accidents, to bear away
for the West Indies, and arrived at
Antigua, where the master applied
to the court of vice-admiralty for a
survey; upon which thu cargo
was landed, and ordered by the
court to be sold for the benefit of
the concerned.' Undcr this sale
the net proceeds of the cargo
amounted to 13,767 dollars, and
of the memorandum articles to
6,863 dollars. The vessel was repaired Within a reasonable time,
and capable of performing the
voyage with the original cargo,
but the master abandoned the
voyage at Antigua. Of the cargo,
99 bags of coffee were spoiled and
thrown overboard, and the residue
grcatly damaged by the perils of
the seas; and the whole cargo, including the memorandum articles,
sustained a damage during the
voyage, exceedinx a moiety of its
original value. Vi ithin a reasonable time after receiving informa.
tion of the loss, the plaintiff abandoued the wiole cargo to the underwriters. The plaintiff contend-

OF THE UNITED STATES.-

great measure, to settlb it. But it is contended, by
the counsel for the plaintiff; that if the loss be such

1816.

PMorean
V.

ed that he was entitled t6 recover
as tr a total loss of the cargo insured, including the memorandum
articles. STORY. J., who delivered
the opinion of the court, stated, that
a technical total loss might arise
from the mere deterioration of the
cargo, by any of the perils insured
against, if the deterioration be
ascertained at an intermediate
port of necessity short of the port
of destination.
In such case,
although the ship be in a capacity
to perform the voyage, yet, if the
voyage be not worth pursuing, or
the thing insured .be so damaged
and spoiled as to be of little or no
value, the insured has a right to
abandon the projected adventure,
and throw upon the underwriter
the unprofitable and disastrohs
subject of insurance.
It bad,
therefore, been held, that if a
cargo be damaged in the course
of the voyage, and it appear that
what has been saved is less in value than the amount of the freight,
it is a clear case of a total loss.
rt did not, however, appear, that
the exact quantum of damage
which shall authb6rize an abandonment as for a total loss, had
ever become the direct subject of
adjudication in the English courts.
The celebrated Le Guidon. c. 7.
art. 1., 'considers that a damage
exceeding the moiety of the value
of the thing insured, is sufficient

U. S.
to authorize an abandonment. This The
Ins. Co.
rule had received some countenance from more recent elementary writers ; and from its
public convenience and certainty, had been adopted as the governing principle in some of the
most respectable commercial
states inthe union, and was now
so generally established as not easily to be shaken. 1 Johns. Ca .
141.
1 Johns. Rep. 335. 406.
.Marshallon Insurance, 562. note
92. Condy's edit.
Park, 194.
6th edit. But this rule b.s been
deemed not to extend to a cargo
consisting wholly of memorandum
articles. The legal effect of the
memorandum is to protect the
underwriters from all partial losses; and, if a loss by deterioration,
exceeding a moiety in value,
'would authorize an abandonment,
the great object of the stipulation
would be completely evaded. It
seems, therefore, to, be the settled
doctrine, that nothing short of a
total extinction, either physical
or in value, of mbmorandum articles, at an intermediate port,
would entitle the insured to turn
the case into a total loss, where
the voyage is capable of being
performed. And, perhaps, even
as to an extinction in value, where
the\ commodity specifically remains, it might yet be deemed
not quite settled, wbther under

230

CASES IN THE SUPREAIE COURT

1816.
Mlorean

J

as that the insured might at one time have treated
it as total, it continues to be so, unless at the time

V.

The 1). S
Ins. Co.

the like circumstances, it would tion ought not to prevail.. The
authorize an abandonment for a underwriter is, in all cases of detotal loss. The case before the terioration, entitled to an exempcourt was of a mixed character. tion from partial losses on the
It embraced afticles of both de- memorandum articles; and, in
scriptions ; some within, and sdme order to effectuate this right, it
vithout, 'he purview of the me- was necessary. where a technical
sjeorandum. If, in such a case, a total loss is sought to be maindeterioration execeding a moiety tained, upon the mere'ground of
in value, be a proper case of deterioration o( th, cargo, at an
tjechnical total loss, it will follow. intermediate port, to a moiety of
thaf' ip many cases, the under- its value, to exclude from that es-*
writei will indirectly be rendered timate all deterior.tibn of the
responsible for partial losses on memorandum articles. Upon this
the 0,emorandum articles.
Sup- principle, in a cargo of a mixed
pose, in such a case, the damage character, no .abandonment for
to the memorandum articles were mere deterioration in value, du40 per cent., and to the other ar- ring the voyage, could be valid,
ticles 10 per cent., in the whole unless the damage on the nonamounting to half the value of memorandum articles exceeded a
the cargo, the underwriter would moiety of the whole cargo, inclube respmisible for a technical total ding. the memorandum articlea
loss, aind thereby made to bear The case was considered, as to the
the whole damage, from which underwriter, the same as thoughthe
the memorandum meant to ex- memorandum articles should eXist
empt him. Indeed, cases might in their original sound state. In
arise in which the damage might this way, full effect was given to
exclusively fall on memorandum the contract of the parties. The
articles; and, if it exceeded the underwriter would never be made
moiety in value of the whole cargo, responsible for partial losses on
might load him with the burthen memorandum artioles, however
of a partial loss, in manifest con- great; and the technical total
travention of the intention of the 1osses for which alone he could be
parties. A construction leading . iable, were such as stood unafrectto such a consequence could not ed by the perishable nature of
be admitted unless it be unavoid- t he commodity which be insures.
.dmittiog, therefore, the rule to
able ; and the court were entire- _2
ly satisfied that such a construe- ba correct, that the party has a

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1816.
when the ofler to abandon is made clear of the
to prosecute Moreau
effects of the peril, and in a condition
the voyage, it is restored to his possession. Now, this The V.
U. S.
is certainly not the condition of property, Which, at the Ins. io.
time of the offcr to abandon, is in the possession of a
recaptor, who has a right to retain it until he is
paid his salvage, But, in the present case, the corn
never was out of te possession of the agents of the
insured, who exercised every act of ownership over
it, subject, nevertheless, to the laws 4nd customs of
the country to which it- was sent, with whiclh the
insurer and insured are supposed to have been acquainted at the -time they entered into this contract,
and to which they impliedly agreed to submit. The
cargo.which was landed, not only continued i the
possession, and under the direction, of the agents of
the insured, but it \vas relieved from the effectsof the
peril, as between the insurer and insured. t.nd it was
not only in a condition to prosecute the voyage, but
it did in reality complete it. Upon the wholb, it is
the opinion of the court that this is not such aloss
as the defendants engaged to indemnily against.
and that judgment should be given in their favour.
Judgment affirmed."
rlght to abandon when the depreciation exceeds a moiety of the
value, the plaintiff had not brought
himself within that rule, as applied
to a cargo of a mixed nature, and
there was, consequently, no total
loss proved by the perils of the
w;xs.

n We are informed by Tar.
c. 52. n. 18. p. 230, and Casarcgis, Disc. 47., that in the practice
of Italy, in order to avoid the dieficulty of settling averages on
perishable articles; the clause cxcluso getto et avaria, as it waTn
railcd wz. intro.ucer.,

232
1816.
%
Moren
V.
The
S.
Ins.U.
Co.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
French law requires goods, which,
by their nature, are subject to
particular detriment or diminution, such as grain, salt, or merchandise subject to leakage, to be

to abandon, such as capture,
stranding, shipwreck, &c. 1 Ene24on, Trafil des Assurances, c.
126. s. 45, 46.
-Pothierd'Assurance, No. 166. Valin sur L'Ordonnance, 1. 3. tit. 6., Des ,Assurances,art. 47. The origin of the
English miembrandtm is referred
by Sergeant Dunning, in the case
of Wilson et al. v. Smith, 3 Burr.
1551, to its "being better calculated to deliver the insurers from
small averages, than adapting the
premiu', to the nature of the commodity, as it might happen to be
more or less liable to perish or
suffer; which method would have
made the policy too complicated,
and which the Dutch bad at first
tried, but afterwards altered."
The English formula is'as follows:
"N. B. Corn, &c., are warranted free from average, &c., unless
general, or the ship be stranded."

specified in the policy, otherwise
the insurer is not liable for the
damages or losses which may
happen to these articles, unless
the insured was ignora.nt of the
nature oi ,he cargo at the time
th6 contract was made.
Ordonnanwe de la Marine, 1. 3. tit.
6. des Adfuraces, art. 31. Code
de Commerce, 1. 2. tit.10. art.
355. In the different ports of
"France, before the revolution, various clauses were inserted in the
policy, excluding responsibility
for losses not exceeding a certain
per centage on such articles. At
Marseilles the insurers exempted
themselves from average losses,
on certain voyages,, by a clause
which was construed to extend The last words, or the ship be
both to 'general and particular siranded,' have been omitted for
average, on vessel or cargo. Un- several years in the forms of polider this clausefranc d'avarie, the cies adopted by the English insuinsurer was held answerable only rance companies, viz. the London
for an entire loss of the subject Royal Assurance, and the Royal
insured. It was, however, deter- Exchange Assurance.
2 Selmined not to extend to any case of wyn's XN. P. 949. They are not
technical total loss, which by the inserted in the policies used in
French liw authorizes the insured the United States.

