CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

The Mary
and Susan.

(PRIZE.)

The Mlary amd Susan.-RIHARDSON, Claimant.
Goods, the property of merchants actually domiciled -in the enemy's
country at the breaking out of a war, are subject to capture and.confiscation as prize.
The fact, that the commander of a private armed vessel was an alien
enemy at the time of the capture made by him, does**not invalidate

such capture.
The President's instructions of the 28th August, 1812, prohibiting the
interruption of vessels coming from Great Britain, in consequence
of the supposed repeal of the British Orders in Council, must have
been actually known to the commanders of vessels of war, at or
before the seizure, in order to invalidate captures made contrary to
the letter and spirit of the instructions.

froni the Circuit Court for the district of
Newv-York. This was a claim by Mr. Richrdson
APPEAL

for a portion of the cargo of the same ship mentioned in the preceding cause, which portion was condemned in the district and circuit courts. The
claimant, a native of Great Britain, and a naturalized

citizen of the United States, was a resident merchant
of Liverpool at -the breaking out of the late war, but
returned to this country in the month of May, 1813,

after- knowledge of the capture, and pending the
proceedings in the district court. The capture was
made on the 3d of September, 1812, within 1.8 miles

of Sandy Hook, in 13 fathomns of water, where vessels are frequently passing and anchoring, and"the
privateer had previously spoken at sea another privateer and a pilot boat schooner from Philadelphia.

-OF THE UNITED STATES.

-47

There was also contradictory testimony as to 1816.
whether the commander of the privateer had know-" The Mary
ledge of the president's additional instructions of the and Susan.
26th of August, 1812, before the capture. which, as
it is noticed in the opinion of the court, it is unnecessary to state. By those instructions the public
and private arined vesdels 6f the United States were
not to interrupt any vessels belonging to dtizens of
the United States, coming from British ports to
the United States; laden with IBritish merchandise, in
consequence of the alleged" repeal of the British
Oders in Council, but were, on the contrary, to give
aid anid assistance to the same, in order that stich vdssels and their cargoes might be dealt with on their.
arivaLas tiight be decided by the competent aatliorities..'
Stockton, for the appellant and claimant,' stated,
that-this was"a case of summum jus, where the propertyof a citizen, shipped without knowledge of the.
war, upon the repeal of the British Orders in Council,
was condemned upon the authority 6f the Venus,4 and
the doctrine of domicil. I'here is here no question
of proprietay interest, or of national character,- independent of ,this particular transaction. But,- unless the court thinks proper to rdview its decisions
upon the effect of comnmerciai domicil, the appellant
.is
confined to three poirits in support of his claim r
1st. That the capture was made after the commander'of the privateer had knowledge of the iii
structions of the 26th of August, .1812.
a February Tern), 1814.

vASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
The
and Susan.

2d. That if he bad not such knowledge, condeni-

nation cannot take place, as -the capture was made
subsequent to the issuing of the instructions.
3d. That the commander of the privateer is, and
was at the time of the capture, an alien enemy, and,
consequently, his commissionis void.
1. This is a question of fact, th be determined by
the weightof testimony. 2. The instructions Were
certainly conniunicated to the commander. before
prize proceedings were- commenced, and it was the
duty of the captors to have relinquished the property, subject to the decision of government, under the
Nofi-Importation Act. Capture does not vest fhe
otierty of the goods in the captors, but merely
authorizes them to carry in for adjudication. The
Prize Act of the 26th of June, 1812, sect. 6., shows
that the property is not vested in them dntil after
condemn'ati6p. All laws take effect from their enactment, as "to rights o_' property; and at comnion
law, statutes take effect, by a fiction, froin the first
day of the session at which they are passed. The
ifndtructions, issued under the 8th section of the
Prize Act, are legislative in their nature, Captors
are the mere delegates and substitutes of the sovereign; their authority is derived from him,.and must
be exercised- in coriformity with the will of the
state.' The power of the Ipesident.to issue these
instructions, hhs already beix;,:recognized by the
court. Th' rights 'of war and leaeq depend upor
the fact of'the existence of d state of war and pea.ce.
4 2 Azun,

parL2. c. 5. art. 3. sect. 4, 5. 7. 10.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

not upon the knowledge of that fact. A prize made
after a declaration of war, without knowledge of its
existence, is good.; and a prize made after the cessation of hostilitieS' a bad, without regard to the circumstance of knowledge7; unless, -indeed, there be
a stipulation in the treaty of peace to prolong hQstilities at sea.- 3. The commission to Johnson, the
commander of the privateer, is null. The President
has been deceived in his grant; for he could never
have intended to commissionate a person to commit
treason against his own country.. The acts of congress, during the late war, put alien enemies under
restraints which are altogether opposed to ihe idea
of the executive being authorized to delegate to
them such a power as letters of marque and reprisal
import.
Hofman, for the respondents and captors.. It is
supposed that the question, as to the aipplication of
the law of domicil to this case, is at rest.
[MARSHALL, Ch. J. The court considers that question completely settled, and not open for argument.]

hoffman. 1. As to the instructions. It is admitted that the former decisions of the court make them
obligatory. The instructions could, in fact, have
been communicated to the. commander of the -privateer previous to the capture; and they are not,.ipso
facto, and per se, revocatory of the right to capture.
c 2 Azumi, part2. c. 4. art 1. sect. 9. 11

VOL. L

1816.
The Mary
and-Susan.

CASES IN THE SOPREME COURT

181c.

The instructions must either have been actually
The .1VaqUcommunicated, or the privateer must have been in
and Susa,. port after they were promulgated, in order to affect
the right to capture. Such is th#- spirit of the former decisions., Cruisers are not to act upon informal
information at sea, as they might be deceived by
their rivals and competitors; in port, knowledge
must be implied, in law, from the certainty, publicity, and notoriety of the fact. The right of property
does vest, by capture, to be subsequently consummated .by condemnation; quoad, the belligerants the
rigblt vests; the property of the enemy is devested
a$ to his rights. The claimant is an enemy, pro hac
vzce. 2. The affidavite to prove the commander of
the privateer an alien enemy, were irregularly taken.
The cause wap open, as it were, to plea and proof;
but the farthel proof was confined to the communication of the instructions ; and the simplicity of the
prize pr6cesdings forbids going out of the, limits prescribed in the order for farther proof.
Pi&ney, on the same side. The court will not
regard the particular hardship of the case, but will
only be anxious to administer the law of nations and
of the land, 4s. they are applicable to the rights of
the parties. L Knowledge of the instructions was
copiupnicated to the captor, before the deductio infirapriwsz'dia; bekore the prize prioceedings were comrnenced- before eQndemnatioa; but after the seizure,
which .vested an inchoate right in the captor. It is
said, the written law prohibited him from making it;
d Whwaton on Captures, 48.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

51

hut that is settled, and the court have said, the i-R
structions we'e not to be.likened to statutes.
"

They

I16.
The 1Mwar

are merely directory from a superior to a person in and Suan.
a subordinate -capacity; and they must be received
by him, or they cannot have the binding force of instructions; they were not law.until communicate4 .
then only they rise into law. It is also'said, that.
the capture was well made, but subsequent knowledge shall overreach and vitiate it. In every case
of capture of goods, in their transit to this country,
after thei repeal of the British orders in council, the
same fact must have been known 'before condemn&
tion. The instructions inhibited the capture and in,
terraption of American vessels coming from Britisli
.ports; but the President could have no authority to

devest rights once vested; and there is nothing iithe
instructions to prohibit bringing in for adjudication
after the capture was made, nor to prohibit prize
proceedings. after bringing in for adjudication. By
the 4th section of the Prize Act, it is provided,
,That all captures and prizes of vessels and proprty, shall be forfeited, and shall accrue to' the owners,
officers, and crews, of the vessels by whom, such
captures and prizes shall be made; and, on due condemnation had, shall be disttn'uted," &e.; by which an
inchoate right vested on the. capture, to he eotisummated by condemnation. The prize, law of Franeec
and Spain vests the property immediately other
tountries require bringing infra prwsidiu.A and' condemnation. Capture gives, everyivhere, a right to
privateers, though it may not give an indefeasible
right tQ ppblic ships, A qualified and provisional

CAES IN THE SUPREME- COURT

prop6rty is vested; and it is held, both in France
and England, that the crown cannot interfere to
The Mary
and Suran. stop prize proceedings where private'parties have
'an interest. Admit that no right of property is acquired, is no right acquired ? Most. certainly an
incipient right is acquired, to be afterwards consummated; and the instructions cannot have the effect,
retroatively, to defeat the right of.the captors to
proceed to adjudication. The case of a treaty of
peace, stated on the other side, illustrates this idea.
Belief is nothing; fact is every thing. The captor
exercises a belligerant right ; the treaty repeals his
commission and abrogates his right. Suppose a
capture made the day before the treaty is signed,
does It .prevent his going on and perfecting his
right? Certainly not; and the same is the' case
with .the instructions: if they do not stand in the
way of the capture, they do not stand in the
Way of condemnation., They. did. not stand in the
way of capture, because they. were unknown; they
do not stand in the way of condemnation, -because
that is a mere consummation of the incipient right
acquired by capture. 2..The court have no riglht
to look beyond the President's commission; the
captor stands. everywhere upon it, especially in the
prize courts of the power by whom it is issued; -and
there isno case where the contrary was ever maintained.
1818.

Dexter, for the appellant and claimant. 1. It is
gaid the claimant must either prove that the privateer- had been in port, or that the instructions were

'OF THE UNITED STATES.

actually communicated- to the commander. If it 1816.
were intended to make. him a wrong doer, strict
The Mavry
proof of knowledge might be essential; without ana Susan.
such proof, he would be excusable from paying costs
and damages; but lie does not thereby acquire any
indefeasible right'to-the thing captured; and restitution must be ordered. The claimant seeks restitution only, and the first 'question is, whether the captor had knowledge of the issuing of the instructions,
no matter how it came to .him. 2. But supposing
that be had not this knowledge -efore the seizure;
it was communicated to the prize master while he
vas,'carrying in the ship for -adjudication., He was
bound'by the instructions, ' not'to interrupt, but, on
the contrary, to give aid and assistanc'e" to !&. ship
he. captured. Do'es the right to proceed contary
to the instructions vest at the time of boarding, or
manning ? It undoubtedly-vested when the ship was
completely- brought infra prosidia. 'But the dcts
done in the intermediate time betw'een that, and the
taking possession, constituted an interruption contrary to the letter and spirit bf the instructions. The
right acquired by the seizure was inchoate, and was
sought"to be consummated after the rule of conduct
prescribed bly the -Pr~sidefit beciamin known to the
captor. The 'rule as to capture vesting the property
is various and fluctuating in different times- and nations. 'The distinction here is, that an inchoato right
may be defeated by a knowledge of the instructions
subsequently communicated: but a consummated
right cannot. The Presidenf has authority, both by
o~ar municipal constitution and public law, to prose-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

cute a war lawfully declared; he may exempt this
or that thing from attack or capture, by land or by
The Mary
and Susan. sea. Suppose an enterprise commenced before knowledge of an order from him.countermanding it, could
the blockade, or siege, or expedition, be continued
after such revocation becaine known ? The captor
has acquired, in the present. case, no private right
which the instructions cannbt defeat. Government
may, by compact with foreign nations, devest incho.te rights; in a treaty of peace, restitution of captures on both sides may be'stipulated.e 3. The order for fartber proof justifies the admission of testimony as to the alien enemy character of the conmander', The president's commission is, doubtless,
conclusive, wherever he acts within the authority
confided to him by the laws; but he cannot Commission an alien enemy, whose sovereig) would have a
right to punish him as'a traitor; and even a naturalized. citizen has no right to crtise aoainst his native country.
1816.

Feb. 1sth.

J'r1soN, .1., delivered the opinion of the court.
It is not necessary to go into a consideration 'of
the national character or future designs of the 8aimant in this case. It has been solemnly settled, aid
must henceforth be considered as the positive law
of this court; that shipments made by merchants,
actually domiciled' in the enemy's country at the
breaking out of a wari, partake of the nature of
e V& Convention of 1800, be- article of which, restitution of
tween the United States and the public ships captured on both sides
French republic; by the 30th was stipulated.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

55

enemy trade, and, As such, are subject to belligerant 1816.
capture. : Whatever doubts ray have once been enThe Mary
tertained on this bench, with regard to the necessity ahM Susan
or propriety of adopting the prihciple into the jurisprudence of.this country, they are now either dissipated or discarded; and the c6aracter, views, and
even the subsequent acts of such a shipper, cannot
vary the coficlusion of law upon his claim.'.
f The effect oI domicil, or corM- the same principle to the law of
mefitial inhabitancy, upon na- insurance, and held a warranty of
ltional haracter was recognised neutrality to be satisfied by tho
by te Contiental Court of Ap- residence of the party as a mer-peals in Prize Caisies duaring the chantjin a neutral country. (Liwar of the reNolution. (2 Dallas, vingston, and .Gilchrist v. The
49- Claim of Mr. Vanteleriger.) Marylaud Insurande Chn,pany.
It *.asdetermin6. by the supreme February Term, 1813.) This. was
court, during the bostilities with an action on a policy of insurance,
France, that a citizen residing in containing a warranty *that the
a foreign neutral country acquired property was neutral. That warthe commercialprivileges attached ranty was determineh to be satisto his dbmicil, ind was, conse- fied by the emigration of the party,.
quently, exempt from the opera- i Spanish subject, to the United
tion of the law of his own coun- .States, and residing thdre befdre
try suspending the intercourse the breaking out of the war in
with the French dominions. (2 1804, between Great Britain and
Cranch, 65.
Murray v. The Spain, the propercy having been
Charming Betsey.) The national captured by a British bruiser, and
legislature have adopted the same condemned in the prize court at
principle in the act of the 3& of Halifax as Spanish -property. A
March, 1800 applying the rule of :majority of the court were of opireciprocity in cases of salvage to nion, that the insured was to be
"the vessels" or goods of persons considered as a merchant of the
permanently, resid6nt within the Uniteil States, whet'her he carried
territory, and under the protection, 6n trade generally, or confined
of any foreign government," &c.; l'imself to a trade from the United
anhd, finally, before the case ol the Stati.s to the Spanish provinces.
See, also, I Johns. Cat.. 363.
Vegus, the supreme court applied

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
The Mary
und Susan.

Stress has been laid, in the argument hefore this
court, on the fact that Charles Johnson, the commander of the Tickler, is an alier, enemy; bfit on
this point we are unanimous that it makes no differArnold v. The United Insurance
Company ; 1 Caines' Rep. 60.
Jenks r. Hallett ; 2 Johns. Gas.
481. Johnston v. Ludlow; 1
Caines' Cas. in Error, 29., 2.
Duguet v.
Johns. Cas. 476.
Rhinelander et a/.* Itis much to
be lamented, that we have not
printgd reports of the decisions in
the British supreme court of prize,
as many interesting points have
been dbcided befoie the Lords of
Appeal, of which we have no other
account than occasional loose references to them. Among these
is the case of Mr. Dntilth, mentioned by Dr. Robinson in the
Indian Chief, 3 Adm. Rep. 21.,
which is nore particularly stated
by Sir John Nicloll, in a manuscript report, in the possession of
the editor, of the bearing of the
case of the Harmony, Bool, before
the Lords, 7th of July, 1803.
" The case of Dutilth, also, illustratds the present. He came over
to Europe, as it is stated, in 1793,
about the end of July, a time
when there was a great deal of
alarth on account of the state of
commerce in Europe. He went
to Holland, then not only in a slate
of amity, but also of alliance with
this country; -he ctntinued there
until 6he French entered. Ddring

the whole time he was there, he
'was without any establishment.
He had no counting house; be
hid no contracts nor dealings with
contractors there. He employed
merchants there -tosell his property, paying them a commission.
Upon th French entering into
Holland he applied for advice, to
know what was left for him to do
under the circumstances, having
remained there on acoount of the
doubtful state of mercantile credit,
which not only affected Dutch
andAmerican, but English houses,
who were all looking after the
state of credit in that country. In
1794, when the French came
there, Mr. Dutilth applied to Mr.
Adarhs', who adVised hiri to stay until he could get a passport. He
continued there until the latter end
of that year, and having wound up
his concerns he came away. .Some
part of his.property was captured
before he 'came there. That part
which was taken before he came
there was restored.to him, (The
Fair American, Adm. 17b6,) but
that part which was. taken while
liewas there was condemned,
and that because he was in Holland at the time of the capture."
(The Hannibal and Pomona,
Lords, 1800.)

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.

ence in the case. Admitting that this circumstanice
should bear at all upon t1 .pdecision of the court, the
.utdiost that could result fi-om it would be the condemnation of his interest to the government as a
droit of admiralty. The owners and rew of the
Tickler are as much parties in this court as the commander, and- his national - character can in nowise
affect their rights. But this court can see no reason
why an alien enemy should not be commissioned as
"commanfderof a privateer. 'There is no positive law
prohibiting it;. and .t has been the.universal practice
of nations to employ foreigners, and even deserters,
to.figh their..battles. Such gin individual knows his
-fate should he fall.into the hands of the enemy; and
the right t'punish in such case is acquiesced in-by
all nations. But, inrestrained -by positive law, we
can see no reason why this governnfetii should be
incapacitated to delegate the'exercise of the rights
of war to any individual who may command its confidence, whatever may be his national character.
The only grounds, then, on 'vhich the right of
restitution can be contended for in this case, arise out
of th'e President's instructions of thl.28th of August,
1812. On these, three points'are made: 1st. That
Johnson .had, in Ihct, or ought from circumstances
to-be.presumed to have had, notice of those instructions.' 2d. If he hadnot at the time of'the capture,
yet, having received them before the arrival of the
prize-in port, he wag bound then to have discharged
ler, 13d. That notice of the instructions was, in fact,
unnecessary, as the.instructions pf the Presideni had,

1816.

VOL.

I

57

The Mary
and Snsa.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Ism6.

as to tie conduct of privateers, all the operation of'
Slaws.

Thp Mary
and Susan.

On the second and third of these point5 there exists
but one opinion in this court. Although some doubt
may be entertained relative to the form or nature of
the notice necessary, yet we all agree that some notice is necessary, and that notice -must precede the
capture. Instruction, ex vi termini, is individual.
Instruction to A., independent of legal privity or identification, is hot instruction to B. Not so i:ith lawr:
their power floats on the atmosphere we breathe.
Necessity, or convention. or power, has given 'them a
legal ubiquity co-extetisive with the legislative power
of the government that enacts them. Notice here
is altogether unnecessary, unless made so by the law
itself. It is the sic volo, sicjubeo, of sovereign power,
of which every individual subject to its jurisdiction is
presumed to have notice, though time and distance
stamp absurdity on the supposition. Unqcestionably,
the same operation might by law have been given
to instructions emanatink from the 'President; but
this has not been done : on the contrary, the clause
itself which vests the power in the executive, holds
out the idea of the necessity of notice. That this
notice must necessarily precede or accompany capture we are induced to infer from this consideration.
By capture the individual acquires an inchoate statutory right, an interest which can only be defeated by
the supreme legislative power of the Union. Condemnation does 'nothing more than ascertain that
each individual case is within the Prize Act, and thus
throws the individual upon his right acquired by

OF THE UNITED STATES.

belligerant capture. Should the Prize Att, in the

1816.

interim, be repealed, or its operation be suspended ""

The Mary

by the provisions of a treaty, there nd longer exists a and Susan.
'law to empower the courts to acjudge the prize to the
individual captor. We can see nothing in the objects
of the law authorizing the Preside6ftto issue his instructions, nor in the instructions themselves,which can
support the idea, that that which was lawfully prize of
war at the time.of.capture should cebse to be so-upon
subsequent notice of the.instructions. Both tleactitself, and the instructions, in their plain and obvious
sense, may well be construed so as to arrest the'arm
of hostility before it has given the blow,. But not
only is th6re nothhig either in' the act or insfructions
tk which an ulterior operation can be given, but the policy .fthe counfry, as well as the fair claims of the
prow.s, perseverance, and expenses..of the indirvidual forbid our giving an effect 'either to the act. or
tthe instructions which will deprive the captor of the
just fruits of, ls 'bravery and.enterprise. The- fact
ot notice, then, alone'remains td be considered: and
this must either be inferredf-om cireimstancez, or
receded upon the evidence of confession. Ori this
point; comPutation of time -becomes material. The.
capture was made, as we collect from.the officers'
and crew, op the 3d of September; but as the-nautipal calculation of thne 'commeuices at noon, this
may mean on the morning of the 4th of September.
The additional instructions, bear date the 28th of
August; and were, probably, forwarded by the mail
of the -29th. It cannot,'fherefore, be supposed that
they were piblished in Philadelphia before the 31st

60

eASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

of August, nor in New-York before the 2d; at any
rate, not before the 1st of September. This certainnh Sudar. ly leaves time enough for the information to have
1816.
'

been communicated from New-York, but renders it
impossible, that it could have been received either
from the Eagle or the pilot boat, as they were both
spoken off Charleston, and the latter was seven days
out; whereas the Tickler left St. Mary's, in Georgia,
on the 24th. Whether such information was not in
fact communiuated off New-York, is a point on which
the evidence 'would leave us little room for a contrariety of opinion, were it not for the loss of the lo?book and journal. For this circumstance, taken in
eoniinctibn with the evidence of confession, some of
the' court are inclined to entertain an unfavourable
id6a of the captor's cause. But the majority are of
opinion, that they cannot attach so much importance
to it. The evidence of Paine, Ferris, and Warren,
all officers of the privateer, and, at the time of testifying, devested of all interest in -the capture, positively negatives the only fact from which notice could be
implied, to wit, the speaking of any vessel beside the
Eagle and the pilot boat, previous to the capture of
the Mary and Susan. Aid this, we think, is supported by probability, when it is considered how very
few vessels at that time could venture to leave our
pbrt.s; that there is no probabity the 'Tickler' could
have ventured to fie off and on the-port of New-York
any length of time; and that, from her ,leaving the
port of St.. Mary's to her arrival at New-York, there
elapsed no more than the ordinary time of perform.
ing that voyage. In addition to which cofisidera-

OF THE UNITED STATES;

tions, we cannot but think, that a copy of the jouiflal
181s.
of this voyage was, as it ought to have been, depoThe Mary
sited in the custom-house; and tiis circumstance, and Susan.
whilst it was calculated to roake the captor less careful in preserving the original,.enabled the claimant
to avail himself of every advantage which- could have
*bben derived from the original. On the evidence of
confession, we are not inclined-to enter into the consideration of the deposition , intended on the one
hand to support, and on the other to impugn, the
credibility of Waldron and darnsey. Nothing ban
be more painful than the necessity of entering upon
such investigations; nothing more unsatisfactory than
to found a leogal decision as to the credibility of a
witness upon oral testimony, unsupported by "the
evidientiarei. Inthis case we are induced to conclude
that these witnesses misunderstood Johnson; that
the knowledge of which the latter spoke, was that
acquired .subsequent fo the capture ; that it could
not have related to any other knowledge we think
incontestible, from the single considaeratior. 'that -the
evidence in the case proves it to have been inconsistent with the fact. It was not possible, under the
circumstancQs of the case, that such knowledge could
have been communicated for want of the means of
communication, and that it was not, is positively.
sworn to by three witnesses whose testimony stands
wholly unimpeached.
-

-

Sentence of the circuit court affirmed with costs.

