OF THE UNITED STATES.

wil, therefore, certify an qpinion to the circuit court

in conformity with that decision.

a Vide, 1 Gallison, 488, for the jurisdiction are cognizable by the
learned and elaborate opinion of circuit court, and in the absence
Mr. 3. STORY, in the circuit court, of positive law, are punishable by
in this case, tending to show that fine and imprisonment.
all offences within the admiralty

t :(

"PRIZE.)

The St. ,Xicholas.-MEYER ET AL. Claimants.
-1 question of proprietary interest.
Where enemy's property is fraudulently blended in the same claim
with neutral property, the latter is liable to sbare the fate of the
former.

APPEAL from the circuitcourt of Georgia. This ves-

sel and the cargo were libelled as prize of war. The
ship was claimed by John

.

Smith, the supercargo,

in behalf of John Meyer, alleged to be a Russian
subject residing at St Petersburg.

The cargo con-

sisted of logwood and cotton, 200 bales of which
were claimed by Smith, in behalf of Platzman &

Gosler, al.o alleged to be Russian merchants of St.
Petersburg. The remainder of the cargo, consisting
of 950,.bales of cotton, and 58 1o1s of logwood were
I ni.T.

Ir

1816.
Thi
.St. Nicbolas

Certificate for the defendant.0

-*C

417

CASES IN THE SUP]EME COURT

418
1816.
'
The

St. Nicholas.

claimed in behalf of John Inerarity, a Scotcliman,
domiciled at Pensacola, and an adopted Spanish

subject.

The vessel was restored in the districl

court, and the cargo condemned, except the logwood.
which was restored. Both parties appealed to the
circuit court, and the cause was then heard and considered; but that court, under the influence of personal considerations, rendered only a-pro forma decree, affirming the sentence of the district court, at
the same time expressing a strong opinion that both
vessel and cargo were liable to condemnation. The
cause had been continued at the last term of this
court for farther proof, but no farther proof was produced at the present term.
The cause was argued by Kcy and Haoer,for the
appellants and claimants, and by Pinkney and
toQ,.for the respondents and captors.
March

21t.

irle-

JoHoNSON, J., delivered th opinion of the court as
follows
This case presents itself in tflis court under a cloud
of circumstances unusuailly threatening. Theire is
scarcely wanting in it one of those characteristics by
which courts df admiralty are led to the detection of
neutral fraud. Whether we consider the persons
who conduct the voyage, the original character of
the vessel, the time and circumstances of the transfer, the trade she has since been engaged in, the
funds with which that trade has been transacted, or
the manner in which it has been conducted, we find
all the hopes and wishcq of the adventure ccntering

OF THE UNITED STATES.

in the hostile country. La French, the master, is a 1816.
native Dane, a naturalized American citizen, a RusThe
sian subject, and, finally, domiciled and his family St.Nicholas.
residing in Great Britain, but (as he declares himself)
having no particular residence. Smitb, the supercargo, is a native Englishman, hsut a naturalized citizen of the United States. He has resided near 30
years in Baltimore, where the war finds him. He
sails for'Lisbori ; from thence to Great Britain; and
is almost immediately, without showing any pretensions to guch redit, employed by. ali opulent house
of trade to take charge of this adventure, with a latitude of discretion which could be the result only of
long acquaintance, or very strong recommendation.
Such men are the proper instruments ofbelligerant
or neutral fraud ; they- are the !avowed panders of
the mercantile. world; their consciences are in the
market. Having-no' national character or feeling,
and but very few qualms of any other kind, their
talents and fidelity to their employers, like those of
the bravo, are sought out by the projectors of iniquitous adventure. And who are Meyer, and Platzman
& Gosler ? They btre introduced in the bills of the
day as very important personages; ,the one was the
owner of the ship, the other of the cargo; but we
find them acting a part .:onspicuous only for its insignificance. They cross the stagef and disappear.
It is a circumstance which scarcely admits of explanation, that Meyer never exercised a single dct of
ownership over this vessel. He r'esides at St. Petersburg, she is lying at Cronstadt. He purchases
her. fur aught. w. know. without haviog ever seen

420

1816.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

her, of a person whom nobody knows, and whom ,thing connects with the vessel; is introduced by a
Te
S't.
Nicholas. Mr. Nicholas, of Virginia, to the master, leaves him
in command, and,.from that time to the present, does
not give him one order, nor writes a single letter to
him. If we could suppose it possible, that there was
no correspondence between them from the 31st of
July, 1812, when the ship was purchased, to the
22d December, when she was chartered to Platzman
& Gosler, at least he would have written at that 'time
and enclosed the master a copy of the charter-party,
and a letter of instructions to regulate his conduct in
the distant and perilous voyage on which. he was
about to enter. But we find La French without one
scrap of instruction from the supposed owner, and,
n all things, yielding implicit obedience to the supposed agent of Platzman & Gosler, whose, interests
!night.
very well have been in many things iticonsistent with .those of the charterer. And what is not
less remarkable, although he acknowledges that he
must have been eighteen months or twb years master
of the. same ship prior to the sale to Meyer, we find
nothing about him or the ve.-. . by which we can
discover who the former owner wa. and when he is
asked who executed the bill Of sale to Meyer. his
reply is, fie does not know , thus leading, fairly, to a
conclusion, that reasons exist now, and existed formerly, for rendering such a cqrrespondence either unnecessary or unsafb to accompany the ship. As to
Platzman & Gosler, the same observation is strikingly
applicable to them. From the moment they launch
their bark upon the ncoan,, she bcomcs, as to them#

OF THE UNITED STATES.

a perfect derelict. Not one -anxious inquiry, not 1816.
one expression of feeling, is communicated by letter
The
to their agent in London. Such, at least, we have a st. Nicholaw.
right to iifer from the non-production of any such
correspondence upon the order for farther proof.
And, upon the supposition of the fairuess of this
transaction, the existence of letters to prove it fair,
was unavoidable; for the letter of the 22d December, expressly calls for correspondence prior to that
date, and having relation to this adventure. Beside
that, as difficulties thickened upon the adventure in
Pensacola, bills'on bills were drawn upon the British house, and letters on letters sent under cover to
them, it would have followed that communications
wOUld be.made to the Russian house, and bills drawn
for reimbursement. But over all this there rests an
ominous silence.
Nor is there any intrinsic skill in the machinery of
this transaction. It can neither claim the praise of
genius in its invention, nor of skilful execution in the
adaptation of its parts. The very invep.ion of it is
laid in a bungling artifice that would not cheat a novice in the arts of commercial evasion. It bears, on
the face of it, the record of its own conviction, and
confesses itself to be, what it was intended to be,
nothing but a neutral cloak. Tile correspondents,
Simpson & Co., to whom the letter of the 22d of
Deceniber is addressed, are rxpressly instructed -to
attach that letter to the invoice and bill of lading, in
order to support the Russian national character.
This, of itself, is conclusive to show that this evidence constituted no part of the mercantile transac-

422

1816.
" The

CASES iN THE SUPREME COURT

tion between the parties.

For, when was it ever

heard of that a letter, which contains in it the whole

St. Nich' -. evidence upon which a correspondent purchases,
advances, and negotiates to a great amount, is thts

to be thrown to the winds, or returneld to the hands
of him who is interested ip suppressing it? And
every step that we advance in the progress of this

transaction, we find new light breaking in upon us to
make manifest its real characteristics. The letter
itself, in which the whole adventure originates, bears,
on the face of it, obvious symptoms of that over,anxiety~which never fails to accompany a conscience ill at
ease; In a letter to a man, to whom such facts must
have.been wholly indifferent, it brings together, into
one view, a number of facts to which the English merchants (at least) know that courts -of admiralty are
in the habit of attaching importance in deciding on
questions of fraud or belligerant rights; as,-for instance,. to show that the ship had been previously
.ngaged in neutral trade, they say," After the discharge of a cargo of Russian 'roduce at this port."
And that it may-appear that this adventure had not
-6cently originated, they say, "-Our friends, Messrs.
A. Glennie, Son & Co., with whom we have some
This
time corresponded, on this s"bject," &c.
letter, which is all-important to the decision of the
cause, calls forth some more remarks.. It contains
a singular i'ongefies of powers, iristructions, and
facts. It is the only evidence we have that the vesse 9 ver was chartered for this voyage. The only
article of instructions to Meyer is tobe fouid here ;
the only evidence-of th right of A. Glennie & Co.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

423

to hct for Platzman & Gosler, is contained in it. 1818.
Nor is there any thing else that would have directThe
ed the house of Simpson & Co. in their transac- st. Nicholas.
tLions, had that house been in existence when the
vessel arrived at Pensacola. It may well be asked,
would A. Glennie & Co. ive been satisfied to part
with so important a voucher for their transactions as
agents in this large adventure, had there been any
thing real in it? Or would so many persons have
been satisfied to stake their fortunes on this itinerant
document, which was to give iis light and pass on,
perhaps never to return again? But if it- did not
bear upon the face of it such palpable marks of its
fictitious character, the conduct of the several. per-.
sons who -affected to be governed by it, would sufficiently show that it was a paper of:no authority.
It is to be remarked that on some points this letter
of the 22d of December, in which alone"Platzman
& Gosler appear in a tangible form, is explicit and
positive. Qn others, it yields unbounded discretion
to A. Glennie & Co. to instruct Simpson & Co., to
whom it is directed, in his conduct in that agency.
With regard to two things, it yields no discretion.
First, as to the article which is to be purchased,..
which is expressly limited to cotton. Secondly, as to
the homeward destination of the ship and cargo,
which is exclusively to Gottenburgh. Yet we. find
that on the 22d of February, and the 3d of March,
1813, A. Glennie & Co. give Smith instructions authorizing a deviation from thQ orders of their principal, not only as to the articles of which the cargo
mnivht consist. hut nP to the voyage from New-Or

424

CASES IN THE SULPREME COURI

1816.

leans, empowering him even to charter the vessel,

The
St. Nicholas.

and limiting- him in the purchase of cotton to the
price of eight, cents, when Platzman & Gosler prescribe no limits, and, in fine, taking the power, both
as to vessel and cargo, out of the hands of Simpson &
Co., to whom the letter of Platzman & Gosler is direcled, and placing the adventure altogether under
the control of Smith, a man whom they appoint,
for aught we know, without any authority from their
principal, and Whose presence was altogether unnecessary, under the supposition that Platzman &
Gosler had really addressed themselves to Simpsori
& Co., to load the vessel on their account. But this
is not all; in e-.ery step of this transaction, the parties betray a consciousness of the necessity of artifice, and in every attempt to resort to it, betray more
of a disposition, than a talent, for fraud. Well aware
that it is necessary to keep up a correspendence
with the supposed neutral, Smith resorts to a methQd in*wtivh he supposes h6 may covertly correspond With the English house, while he keeps up the
appearance of c6rres'ponding with the neutral claimait. We find a moAt minute detail of all his transactions, and the events of the voyage contained in a
series of letters directed to Platzman & Gosler, but
uniformly transmitted open, and under cover to the
persons really to be informed-the hostile house.
This is a shallow artifice. The belligerant must be
fatuous who could be duped by it. And, unfortunately for the claimarts, tl.e letters, on the face of
them, contain evidence to prove for whom they
were really intendvd. Strike out the names of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

425

Platzman & Gosler, and insert that of A. Glennie 1816.
& Co., and they will be found to be written with a
The
view to satisfy several passages in his general letter SA.Nic1holar.
of instructions, of the 2d of February, from A. Glennie & Co.
This affected correspondence with Platzman &
Gosler commences on the 24th of May, 1813, and
in the letter of that date-, and that of the 5th of June
following, there are very striking proofs of the nature
and views of that correspondence. In the letter of
the 25th of December, 1813, which may be called
the magna charta of this adventure, it will be recollected Platzman & Gosler are made to say, that
as they live in so remote a place as St. Petersburg,
Simpson must receive his instructions about-the cargo of cotton altogether from A. Glennie & Co.; and
in the letters of the 2d of February and 5th of
March, above referred to, Smith receives his instructions altogether from A. Glennie & Co., and yet
when he writes to Platzman & Gosler on the 24th
of May, and announces his intended voyage to Liverpool, (in express violation of their orders,) he adds,
"There I shall hope to .receive your instructions
about the disposal of the cargo." This to the London house of A. Glennie & Co. was perfectly intelligible. It will also be recollected, that in the letters
from A. Glennie & Co. of the 2d of February, Smith
is ekpressly instructed to communicate all necessary
information, so as to govern them in making insurance; and yet in thesel etters to Platzman & Gosler he affectedly observes, that he sends them open
to A. Glennie & Co., in order to direct their conduct
VeL. I

It if

CASES IN THL SUPREME'COUIRT

i ir.-

in case Platzman & Gosler should have iustritct&t
Sthem
to make insurance. When to all these consiThe
St.Nicholas derations we add, that this adventure, in fact, originares ina hostile country, and never appears to look
to any other termination, and that the funds on
which it was projected were altogether English, we
are satisfied that the ship, arid the 200 bales of cotton, laden professedly on account of Platzman &
Gosler, are not owned as claimed. With regard to
the ship some additional reasons might be urged;
Iufthe. foregoing, as applying to that whole claim,
we- deem sufficient.
With regard to the claim of Inerarity, the question- there rests between positive swearing, and irreconcilable cirdumstances. And it is a melancholy
truth, that forces itself upon the observation of every
one who is conversant with courts of admiralty, that
positive oaths are too often the most unsatisfactory
evidence that can be resorted to. A species of ca'suo
istry or moral sophistry seems to have acquired too
great an ascendancy over the -,itnesses who sometimes a pear in "those courts.
Vilh regard to the logwood, nothing can be said
against it, except that we find it in bad company.
!Thereis no evidence in"
the case which can induce a

belief that it belonged to any one but InerarRy.
Not so with the cotton; except in his own oath, and
in the invoice, he is no where recognised, among the
acting parties, as owner of this cargo. The evidence
of an invoice on such a subject is literally reduced to
nothing in'the prize courts; and his own affidavit
will be considered in due time. We will inquire into

OF THE UNITED STATES.

427

1s16.
the circumstances which invQlve him in suspicion,
and .see how these circumstances are explained.
The
It is in evidence that on the arrival of Smith at Pen- St. Nihola
sacola, and his ascertaining the impracticability of
loading the ship on account of his owners, at the
limited price, Inerarity himself advised him, as he
says, in his letter of the 24th of May, to go to NewOrleans for the purpose of endeavouring to obtain
freight. From this it is evident that at that time he
had no intention to embark in a shipment of cotton.
The opportunity of securing this vessel at such a time
would otherwise have beeneagerly caught at. On
going to New-Orleans Smith falls in with Milne, who
finally ships the whole of this parcel of cotton through
Inerarity.
The bills of lading and invoice are made out to
Inerarity, but Milne transmits the cotton to him, not
generally, but expressly to be laden on board this
ship. In all this transaction, Milne is the real dux
facti. He procures the cargo, for which Smith pays
him a commission; he transmits the cotton; Inerarity never appears but as the agent. of Milne. And
when Smith speaks o.'f the shipper, which he often
does in his letters to La French, he speaks of him
as Inerarity's friend.
But it is contended that, by this expressioni we are
to understand Inerarity himself; that he was the
neutral Spaniard spoken of as -the shipper in Smith's
letters to Platzmdn & Gosler, and as ho other shipper appears in the case but Inerarity's friend, and
Inerarity himself, they must mean the same person.
This idea is ingeniously taken up from an expression

4"28
Isis

"

The

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

in Smith's answer of the 12th October, to Inerarity's
letter of the 6th, relative to the damage done to the

Nicholas. cotton by water. In which letter Smith says, "As a
Nt.
shipper on board the St. Nicholas, my wish is to give
you every satisfaction," &c. And in several of the
letters to Platzman & Gosler, he speaks of the shipper as a Spaniard and neutral. But as it was evidently a part of the o-iginal arrangement, that this cotton
should be shipped in the name of Inerarity, who was
a neutral Spaniard, the expressions, in both those
letters, are satisfied by this consideration. And it

we then take Milne, as Inerarity styles him, in the

letter of October the 6th, "his fi'iend" at New-Or-'
leans, every thing becomes intelligible. Inerarity is
the neutral Spaniard in whose name the cotton is
shipped, and ./J'Iilze his friend at New-Orleans, wth
whom Smith makes his agreement about taking the
cotton. It is to be remarked, that the letter of Inerarity of. the 6th of October, and Smith's answer,
and the letters of Smith to Platzman & Gosler, were
intended to see the light. The two former as the
inception of, or the ground of defence to, a legal investigation ; the latter, if necessary, to prove a legal
character. It was necessary, therefore, for all the
characters to assume their respective disguises. 'No
one can believe, that when Smith was at New-Or-leans urging the shipment of the cargo, every day
making some new arrangement with the shipper,
and writing to La French, in consequence of those
agreements, to receive certain quantities of cotton
from Inerarity, then at Pensacola, that he could have
confounded Inerarity and -his friend so very often

OF THE UNITED STATES

429

1816.
as he does, at the same moment when he is distinThe
guishing them, not only in words, but in acts. Another circumstance, attaching no small suspicion to St. Nicholh.
this claim, is the connexion which the evidence makes
nut between the shipment by Milne and one Ralston,
who appears on the stage about the time- when the
vessel first sailed. We do not mean here to. attach
any importance to the evidence of Dayton. It was
utterly disregarded ifi the court below, and meets
with the same fate here. We do not consider it at
all necessary to the case. But that Ralston was the
person for whom Smith requests La French to provide as a passenger, and an only passenger, is proved
by the fact of his being the only passenger on board
when the vessel sailed. This person, Smith says,
was to have charge of the invoices; and this person
must be presumed to have been an American, as we
find him at large in the country in a time of war.
Vhther American or Englishman, is immaterial to
the decision of this Coirt. Smith siYears, indeed,
that he had no connexion with the cargo; but Smith.
himself furnishes the evidence in his letter, and testimony to prove the contrary. Upon the whole.
when the above considerations are taken in conjunction with this. that it is hardly possible to assign a,

reason why Inerarity should not have appeared
openly in purchiasing and transmitting this carg6 at
New-Orleans, they cannot but so load his claim with
suspicion, as to make it a case for condemnation.
unless he can furnish some satisfactory explanation
on the subject.

430

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

But what is the explanation? This leads us
to the consideration of the affidavits. And here
The
St. Nicholas. it is, with extreme regret, that we are called upon
to declare, that we can attach no credence to
them. Inerarity has foifeited his claim to the respect of this court by takingan oath to a fat which
might, irndeed, by possibility, have been tre, but
which he could not have known to be true. He has
sworn that this parcel of cotton, so clearly proved to
have .been purchased at- New Orleans, was of Spanish origin. This is a part of the machinery, ah authenticating document, and its foulness communicates a
taint to the residue. But his test affidavit bears, upon
the face of it, another proof that he is an incautious
swearer. For he testifies, with the same confidence
that he does of his own claim, that the two hundred
bales shipped for Platzman & Gosler were their
absolute property. The testimony of some other
witnesses is offered in evidence, all subject to the
same objection that they swear with similar confidence to a fact that they can know nothing of positively. These affidavits, together With several tendz
ing to discredit the testirfiony of Dayton, and one
from Mr. J.enner, of the house of Eason, Jenner &
Co., constitute all the evidence brought in upon the
order for farther proof. The affidavit of Jenner goes
to negative the interest in the house of Eason, Jenner & Co. It also goes to prove that his house believed Inerarity t6 be the sobb.proprietor of this shipment. But what are we to think of the discretion
of this witness also, who undertakes to swear, in terms
the most positive, that A. Gleunie & Co. had no in'te1816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

rest in-this shipment ? The case, indeed, furnishes no 1816.
reason to belie,,Y hey had; but on -what ground .
The
can this witness undertake to deny positively a fact St.Nichoias.
which, with him, could only rest on belief.? In none of
these affidavits is there any thing to negative the probable American interest which the evidence makes
out. And can- there be a pretext flor contending
that Incrarity could resort to no other evidence to
satisfy this court of the fairness of his claim ? Where
is his correspondence with Milne? What was to
have prevented him from showing how he bought
and paid for this cotton? His accounts current with.
his agents or factors might have thrown great light
upon this ransaction. He has had ample time to do
this, and the practice of the court, not less than o~tr
strong conviction that he never can vindicate hir
claim, 'mustnow oblige us to shut the door upon him.
The logwood must share the fate of the cotton,
blended in the same claim. This we consider as
the positive law of the admiralty; and although highly
penal, is not without its beneficial eflects in deterring neutrals from attempting frauds upon belligerant rights."
a Vide, 2 Rob. 1. The Eenroom. Ib. 154. The Calypsb. 3
Rob. 111. The Graaf Bernstorff.
So, also, in the courts ofmunicipal
law it is held that property insured
and-warranted to he neutral, must
not only have every document necessary according to treaties and
the law of nations to prove its
neitrality, but it must not be ac.

companied with any papers that
compromit its neutral character.
It is a maxim that neutral cornmerce is to be conducted with
good faith towards belligerants.
Their rights are to be respected
as well as those of heutral nations.
It is not sufficient that a part only,
but the whole property covered by
the policy
,nua(be neutral. And

432

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Russelg

v.

ship reversed; affirmed as to
cargo, except the Ic zwood,, vhich was con-

Sentence as to the

1816.
Sthe

demned.

Trustees of
Transylvania Univer* if a covcr is attempted for enemny's knowledge of his principal, the
sity.
property, by an intermixture with
21eutral,'it is held to subject the
whole to confiscation. 1 Caines'
Rep. 565. Blagge v. The N. Y.
Ins. Co. And if the general agent
of a neutral cargo covers enemy's
property in the same vessel,
though tithoat the consent or

property of his principal is con-.
defihnable, (notwithstandingit may
be distinguished by the papers,)
and the warranty of neutrality is
not fulfilled: 2 Binney, 308. The
Phcenix Ins. Company. v. Pratt
et al.

(CHANCERY.)

RUSSEL ET. AL V.

The' Trustees of the

TRANSYLVANIA

UNIVERSITY.
A question under a bill in chancery,.to obtain from the defendants
a conveyance of a tract of land, in Kentucky, held by them as the
property of the original grantee, confiscated to the state, and claimd by the plaintiffs under an equity arising from a sale made by the
original grantee of another tract of land, to which it was alleged he
erroneously supposed himsdlf legally entitled under the same warrant and survey. Bill dismissed.

from the circuit court for the district of
Kentucky. This cause was argued at - a former
term, and continued to the present term tor advisement.
APPEAL

