OF THE UNITED STATES.

215

On the whole, the court are unanimously of. opi1816.
nion, that the goods included in this shipment were,
Renner and
during their transit, the property, and at the risk of Bussard
the. shippers, and, therefore, subject to condemna- Mashall.
tion. The claimn of Mr. Lizau r must; therefore, be
rejected.
Sentence affirmed with costs.

(COMMON LAW.)
RENNER & BuSSARD V. MARSHALL.
The commencement or another suit for the same cause of action in
the court of another stafte since the last continuance, cannot be
PIeadedi in abatement of the original suit,.
If matter in abatement is pleaded puis darrein continuance, the judgment, if against the defendant, is peremptory.
'Where the action is brought for a sum certain, or which may be rendered certain by coihputafion, judgment for the damhges may be,
entered by the court without a writ of inquiry.

to the circuit for the district of Columbia
for Washington county. The defendant in error, at
June term, 1813, declared against the plaintiffs in
error in. assumpsit, uljon an inland bill of exchange
drawn by one Rootes on Renner & Bussard, and
accepted by them; to which declaration they pleaded non- ssurnysit, and issue was thereuipon joined, and
the cause was continued to December term, 1813.
At that tqrm the plaintiffs in error appeared and
ERROR

216

CASES IN THE SUJREME COURT

pleaded, " that, after the*last continuance of the plea
1816.
"terNer and aforesaid, to wit, the first Monday of June, in the
Renner and
Bussard year one thousand eight hundred and fourteen, from
Marshall. which day the plea aforesaid was farther 'ontinued
here until this day, to wit, the fourth Monday of December, in the year last aforesaid, and before this
day to wit, on the nineteenth day of October, in the
year 1-ist aforesaid, before the SUF;-.rior court of
chancery of the commonwealth of Virginia, &c., the
plaintiff exhibited his certain bill of complaint against
the defendants, &c.; and also against one Anthony
Buak and one Miles Dowson, complaining and allegingin his said bill, that on the twelfth day of October,
in the year one thousand eight hundred and twelve,
Thomas R. Rootes drew his bill of exchange upon
the defendants, &c. And the said defendants farther
say, that the plea aforesaid, for which the said defendants, by the said plaintiff in the said bill of complaint mentioned, are impleaded in the said superior
court bf chancery as aforesaidc, is for the same identical matter and cause of action, of, andfor which
the said plaintiff hath now impleaded the said defendant§, Renner & Bussard," &c. To which the
plaintiff replied the prior pendency of the suit ir
the circuit court; and the defendants rejoined in
substance the same matters as contained in their
plea, whereupon the plaintiff demurred specially.
Upon which the court rendered judgment, " that
the plea of the said Daniel Renner and Daniel Bussard by them above pleaded, to the writ and declaration of the said Horace Marshall, and the plea of
the said Daniel Renner and Daniel Bussard, by way

"217

OF THE UNITED STAThS.

of rejoinder to the said replication of the said Ho-

1816.

race Marshall, and the maiiters
therein contained, are
•

Renner and

.not sufficient in law to preclude him, the said Horace
Marshall; from maintaining his action aforesaid;
therefore it is considered by the court here, that the
.aforesaid Horace Marshall recover against the said
Daniel Renner and Daniel Bussard,. as w9l1 the sum
of, &c., his damages," &c.
The cause was argued by Jones and Key, for the
plaintiff in error, and by Lee for the defendant in
error.

Bussard
V.
Marshal.

J., delivered the opinion of the court.
Uar(c
The first 'question in this case is, whether the
commencement of another suit for the same cause of
action in the court of anothe'r state, since the last
con tinuance, can be pleaded in abatement of the
original suit. It is very clear that it cannot. A
subsequent suit may be abated by an allegation of
the pendency of a .prior suit; but the converse of
the proposition is, in personal actions, never true..
The decision of the circuit court of the'district of
Columbia overruling the plea was therefore corSTORY,

rect.-.
a The exceiion rd judkcata
applies only to final or definitive
sentences in another state, or in a
foreign court, upon the merits of
*tiecase; and the rule has even
been applied to the pendency of a
cause in an inferior court in the
same state. 9 Johns. Rep. 21.
Bowe v. joy, and the authorities
VoL. 1,

therelcitea. Sed qucere, if it were
alleged that the inferior court
bad jurisdiction? Fitzg. 314.
But whether the suit be pending
in a foreign or a domestic court, a
prior suit canhot be abated by the
allegation of the pendency of a
suit subsequently brought.

2E

218
1816
Rennerand
Bussard

CASES IN THE SUPIEME COURT
tThe

next question is, whether the judgment rendered on the overruling of the plea ought to have
been peremptory, or an award of responcleas ouster.

larrall. This point is cumpletely settled by authority.

If

matter in abatement be pleaded puis darrein continu-

ance, the judgment, if against the defendant, is
peremptory as well on demurrer as on trial.'
The last question is, whether judgment could be
entered up for the plaintiff for the amount of his
damages by the court, without a wAt of inquiry.
This also is completely settled by authority in all
cases whether the action is brought for a sum certain,

or which may be made certain by computation.'
Judgment affirmed with costs.
b See I Chilly on Plead. 636.
c See 2 Willians' Saunders,
107. Holdip y. Otway, note 2.
5 T. 1?. 87. Maunsell v. - Lord
Masareenc, 8 T. R. 326. Butler'
v. Street. 8 T'. R. 395. Nelson
.v. Sheridan. 8 T. R. 410. Byron v. Johnson, Dot
302.

Theluson v. Fletcher. 1 H. B1.
352. Rashleigh v. Salmon. 1 H.
Bl. 529. Andrews v. Blake.
I H. B1. 541.
Long-man v.
Penn. 3 Dall. 355. Brown v.
Van Braam. I Da/li 185. Grabarn v. Bickbam. 4 Dall. 149.
Graham v. Bickham.

