CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

on which the judges of that court were divided ia
and was argued by counsel. On considera'opinion,
Jn
tion whereof this court is of 6pinion that the replicah lao
st
o h l
1hore's exetion of the plaintiff is insufficient to avoid the plea of
eutor.
the defendant. All which is ordered to be certified
to the said circuit court.
1816.

Certificate for the defendant,

(COMMON LAW.)
JO; 3 ET AL. V. SHORE's EXECUTOR ET AL.

Trm UNITED STATES V. JONES ET AL.
A bond was given to T. S., the collector of the district of Petersburg,
under the 2d section of the embargo act of the 22d December, 1807,
and a suit was afterwards brought by him on the same bond in the
district court, and pending the proceedings, to wit, on the 30th of
October, 1811, J. S., the collector, died; and judgment was recovered in favour of the United States on the 30th of November,
1811. On the 26th of the same November, . J. was appointed
collector of the same district, and entered on the duties of his
office on the 14th oiDecember," 1811; until which time T. S., who
was deputy collector nnder J. S. at his decease, continued as such
to discharge the dutiep of the office. The judgment of the district
court was subsequently affirmed by the circuit court. When the
bond was taken A. t. was surveyor of the district, and continued
in that office until his death, which was after the chmmencement
of the suit on the bond and before judgment thereon, and was succeeded by J. H. P. who was appointed on the 30th of March, 1811,
and entered on the duties of his office on the 16th of the same

OF THE UNITED STATES.
month. It was held, that the personal representatives of the de1816.
ceased collector and surveyor, and not their successors in office,
Jonces
were entitled to that portion of the penalty which is, by law, to be
V.
distributed among the revenue officers of the district where it was
Shore's exeincurred. There being no naval officer in the district, the division
cwtor.
was adjudged to be made in equal proportions between the coiledtor and surveyor.

THE material facts of these cases are as follows:

On the 23d of November, 1808, a bond was executed at the custom-house of Petersburg, in Virginia,
to the United States,. by Thomas Pearse; master of
the ship Sally, of Philadelphia, and Robert M'Adam,
Daniel Filton, and George Pegram, jun., in the penal
sum of 46,300 dollars, upon condition that if the

cargo of said vessel, consisting of 830 hogsheads of
tobacco, intended- to be transported in said vesgel.
from the port of Petersburg to the port of Boston,
in Massachusetts, should be relanded in the United
States, the danger of the seas excepted, then the
obligation to be void, otherwise to remain -in full
force. The bond was, in fact, given to John Shore,
the collector of the district of Petersburg, in pursuance of the second section of the embargo act of the
22d December, 1807, cl. 5.

A suit was afterwards

brougoht by the said cbllector on the same bond in
the district court for the di.frict of Virginia, and
pending the proceedings in said court, to wit, on or
about the 30th of October, 1811, John Shore, the
collector, died; and judgment was'finally recovered
on the same bond, in favour of the United States, on
the 30th of November. 1811. On the 26th of the
same November, John Jones was duly appointed and
commissioned by the president as collector of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.

J .'
Jone4

hr exefhore's

cutor,

same district, and he qualified as such, and took upon
himself the discharge of the duties of the office on
the 14th of December, 1811 ; until which time, Thomas Shore, who was deputy collector under. John
Shore at the time of his decease, continued, as such
deputy collector, to discharge the duties of the office.
Mr, Pegram sued out a writ of error from the said
judgment, to the circuit court for the district of Virginia, and Mr. Pegram havifig died pending the proceedings, the suit was revived by his administrator,
and the judgment of the district court was, at Ma)
term, 1814, affirmed by the circuit court. At th
time when the'bond was taken by the collector, Andrew Torborn was the surveyor of said district foi
the port of City Point, and continued in that office
until his death, which happened after the commencement of the suit on said bond, and before the rendition of judgment thereon, and was succeefded in his
office by John H. Peterson, who was app inted and
commissioned on the 3d of March, 1811, and qualified and entered upon the discharge of the duties
of that office on the 16th of the same month. At the
May term of the circuit court, 1814, the whole debt
and costs recovered by the judgment, were paid into
court by the administrator of Mr. Pegram. Cross
petitions were thereupon filed by the district attorney in behalf of the United States, praying the
whofe sum to be paid to h im, or deposited in the
bank of Virginia, to the credit of the treasurer of
the United States, by the present collector and surveyor of the district of Petersburg, and by the representatives of the deceased collector -"nd surveyor.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

465

praying a payment over, and distribution of, the sum
1816.
so recovered, according to the rights respectively
Jones
claimed by them. A bill was also filed on the Shore's
V.exe
chancery side of the circuit court, by the represen- cutor.
tatives of the deceased collector and surveyor,
against the present collector and surveyor, and the
clerk of the court praying a moiety to be paid over
to them, or such other portion as they were entitled
to by law, and also for general relief. Upon the
hearing of the cross petitions, the circuit court overruled the prayer of the motion of the district attorney; the court being of opinion that the United
States were entitled only to a moiety of the.money,
afid that the same ought to be paid to the collector
of-the district, and ordered the clerk of the court,
accoidingly, to pay the same to John Jones, the present collector, after deducting therefrom one half of
one, per centum for his commission. And- ihe court
being divided in opinion, whether the* other moiety
should be paid to the said collector to be distributed
by him according to law, as this court should direct,
or without any direction on the subject, certified the
same question to the supreme court. Upon the heaiing of the suit in chancery on. the bill, answer, and
proof, in which none of the facts were controverted,
a question occurred before the court, whethiei the
representative of the late surveyor, in right of his
intestate, was entitled to receive the moiety of thaf
portion of the penalty which is, by law, to be distributed among the several revenue officers of the district wherein the. penalty was incurred; upon which
Vor. I

I N

466

'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

question the court was divided, and the same ques-

'
Jones

tion was certified to this court.

V.

Shores.ee-

Swann, for Jones et al.

The whole body of em-

bargo laws shows, that the collector is, ex oficio, to
receive penalties and forfeitures; and that he who is
to-receive, is to have his distributive share as his property of right, and to make the division among the
other persons entitled. The term collector means
the officer of the law, invested with legal immortality. Official obligations do not attach to the person
of the individual, but to the office.a The penalty
may be released by the treasury at any time before
the collector receives it.
Wi, for Shore's executor et al. The question is,
.whether, of these two officers, he who supoorts all
the labour and inconvenience shall be entjtled to the
reward. The death of Mr. Shore did not discontinue his office; his deputy exercised the duties, as
by law lie was authorized to do, until the rendition
of the judgment. The reason of the law is its soul;
the intention of the legislature must be regarded.; it
must have been their motive to stimulate the zeal
and exertions of the officers of the customs by an
adequate incentive. Policy rendered it more essential in the embargo laws than in the ovdinary revenue laws, and the reward was, therefore, attached to
the incuribent who detected the offence, and prosecuted. The question is stricaijuris,and must be dea 4 Cranrh. 1-1,

iuehlv e.t Ai. v. '-11e Uu;tcd States.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1816.
termined by the letter of the law. It does not require the collector to live on till the reward is reaped,
Jones
V.
If
but the right descends
7_ to his representatives.
Shore's executar.
there be a private information, the common informer
gets half the moiety of the officers. If there be no
informer, they are entitled upon the ground of like
merit. The title of the informaer vests upon the information, and thecollector takes his place. The
law provides that a person entitled to a share, who
shall desire to become a witness, must release; he
must renounce and lay -down his title in order to
qualify himself as a witness. Where the forfeitures are
recovered in consequence of information by the officers of a revenue cutter, a share is given to them,
but no body pretends that their successors would
take. It is conceded that the title may be defeated
by a remission of the penalty; but that is a condition originally attached byjaw. The collector dies;
but he lives in his deputy, for whose conduct his
estate is responsible.

Pinkne', in reply. The argument drawn from an
equitable construction, according to relative merit,
is unsatisfactory. The law holds out a contingent
prospective reward; if the officer dies, it is gone, and
the policy of the law is sufficiently satisfied. But
the letter of the law is clear and peremptory; the
penalty is giver to the officer where it was incurred,
and not to the seizin-gf officer. At what epoch will
you stop. in fixing th, eha actcr of the person entitled ? At the seizure ? the prosecuti6n ? oi'the rendition of tihe judgment? At neither: for the word

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

" recovered" is the emphatic expression, and it is recoand received. Every other
t
Jones - vered when adjudged
and fictitious. The presi;rhore's exe-e construction
dent's power isof arbitrary
pardoning is a conclusive argument;
if the right vested, it could not be thereby devested.
The provision, as to officers wishing to become witnesses, signifies nothing. They have an interest;
not a vested and absolute'interest, but contingent
upon the recovery, and if they think fit to sacrifice
it, they may be witnesses. The collector did not
live in his deputy; the law merely casts the responsibility upon his estate as to the acts of the deputy.
1816.

STORY, .L, delivered the' opinion of the court, and,
after stating the facts, proceeded as follows:
As the United States have not asserted any claim,
the first question for the decision of the court is.
whether the present collector and'surverdr, the actual in'cunabents in office, or the )representatives of
the late collector and surveyor, in right of their testator arid intestate, are entitled to the moiety of the
money received in satisfaction of the judgment above
spted, and now in the custody of the circuit court.
By the express provisions of law, all penalties and
forfeitures accruing under the embargo acts, with a
few exceptions, not applicable to this case, are to be
distributed and accounted for in the manner prescribed by the collection 'law of the 2d of March,
1799, cl. 122. To this latter act, therefore, the argtliment; of counsel have been chiefly directed; and
.pon the true construction of the 89th section of the
act, the decision of this cause must principally rest

6F THE LUOTED STATES.

460

The 89th section enjoingAhe callector, within whose
1816.
district a seizure shall be made, or forfeiture incurred,
Jones
oe
to cause suits for the same to be commenced without
Shore's exe.
delay, and prosecuted to effect; and authorizes him
cutor.
to receive from.the court, within which a trial is had,
or from the proper officer thereof, the sums so received, after deducting the proper charges, and on
rdceipt thereof requires him to pay and distribute thesame.without delay, according to. law, and to transmit, quarter-yearly to the treasury an acrount of all
the moneys received by him for fines, penalties, and
forfeitures, during such quarter. The 91st section
declares that all fineA, penalties, .and forfeitur-s, recovered by virtue of the act, and n6t otherwise appropriated, shall, after deducting all proper costs
and charges, be disposed as follows, viz., "one
moiety shall be for the use of the United States; and
be paid into the treasury thereof, by the collector
receiving ihe same; the other moiety shall be divided
betweefi, and paid in equal proportions to, the collector and naval officer of the district, and surveyor
of the port, wherein the same shall have been incurred, or to such of th e said officers as there may
be within the same district; and ii districts where
only one of the aforesaid officers shall have been established, the said moiety shall be given fo such officer." Then follow provisions referring to the distribution in cases where the recovery has been had
in pursuance of information given by any informer,
or by any officer of a revenue, cutter.
It is argued on behalf of the present collector and
surveyor, that upon the true construction of these

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816
Jones

or.s

clauses no title to a distributive share of penalties
forfeitures vests until the money has been actu-

Sand

ally received by the collector from the
officer of the
Shor's
exe-court;
and
that
upon
such
receipt
it
vests in the
cutor.

proper officers of the customns who are then in office.
And in support of this argument it is further asserted
that until this epoch the claim is a mere expectancy
and not a right; the interest being in abeyance, uncertain, and contingent. An attempt has been made
to press the language of the act into the service of
this argument. But it certainly will not support it:
th& language of the act, in its most obvious import,
does not seem to have contemplated any charge in
the officers of the customs between the time of the
accruing and the receipt of the penalty or forfeiture.
It seems prihcipally to have been adapted to cases
of the most ordinary occurrence, and it is only by an
equitable construction that it can, in aid of the legisl taie intrntion, be brought to reach the present
case. The act must receive. the same construction
in relation to forfeltures in ren, as ini relation to personal penalties. Both are distributable in the same
manner, and subject to the same rules. The case,
thercfore, wi!l be first considered, in reference to
torfuitures in ren.
Whenever a forfCiture in rem accrues, it is by the
'act made the duty of the col'cor to seize the thing,
-tLo to prosecute a suit therefor, to final judgment.
The *.w contemplates that he may seize, upon probI bM cause of seizure, not simply in cases of persona1 *knowledgc, -but upon the information of others.
i seizes, however, at his peril, and if the act be not
lhc is subject to u pe,'.onai re.,pon.sibili v
justi . ,!c.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ibr all damages. He is placed;therefore, in a situalion in which he is bound to act, and yet is not protected against the legal consequences of his acts. It
is unquestionably with a view to stimulate his vigilance, and reward his exertions, that the law has
given him a share of the forfeitures recovered by his
enterprise and activity. And yet it would follow
upon the argument which has been stated, that the
collector who seizes mighf be liable to all the responsibility of the act, in case of a failure, without
receiving any of the fruits of his toil, if crowned with
success. This certainly :would seem to be against
the policy of the legislature, as well as against the
plainest rules of equity. It is a maxim of natural
justice, qui sentilt commodum sntire debet et oftus; and
the words of a statute ought to be very, clear that
should lead to a different determination. But. the
case is n6t left to the result of general .reasoning
upon the intent and policy of the legislature. It is
not true, that the right of a seizing officer to a distributive share is a mere expectancy. By the common law a party entitled to a share of a thing forfeited, acquires by the seizure an inchoate right,
which is consumniated by.a deccce of condemnati,,
and when so consummated, it relates back to the tm
of the seizure. This principle is fhmiliarly applied
to many cases of forfeitures to the crown; and c(eri
in respect to private persons entitled to forfcitur.
the interest which is acquired by seizuce has beei!
deemed a sufficient title to slstaiu an action of detinue for th-e property. And it isvery clear tI'at th.
,islatur', iteadilv kepi inview ,hi, .'rnei'&c
f the

1816.
Jones

V.

cutor.

472
1816.

k
Jones

h .'exoe
Shore's

CASES -IN THt SUPREME COURT

common law; for the act has expressly provided that
anyoofficer entitled to a part of the forfeiture may be a

witness at the trial; and, insuch a case, he shall lose
his share in the forfeiture. The law, therefore, deems
cutor.
him a party having a real substantial interest in the
cause, and not a mere expectancy-" a fleeting hope
that only keeps its promise to the ear, but breaks it
to the sense." It is true, that the act in making distribution of forfeitures speaks of the parties entitled
to them by the description of their office; but
it cannot, with any colour of reason, be argued
thit this designation of office meant to exclude a
On the contrary, it is most
designaiio personfl.
manifest that the act meant to point out the person
entitled by a description of his ofce.. The question
then recurs, who is the person meant under this description of office? Is it the person who happens to
be in office when the forfeiture is received? Or the
person who was in office when the seizuiee was made.
anid bo thereby acquires an inchoate right, Which
the subsequent judgment ascertained and fixed?
Thlie words may.be literally applied indifferently to
either; but in point of!law, they can be properly applied only to him who has, under the same descrip.
tion of office, already acquired a vested title, inchoate, or cohsummate, in the forfeiture. This construetion is fortified by a recurrence to other provisions in
the-91st section of the act. It is, in the first pilace,
provided that, in all cases of forfeitures, recovered in
pursuance of in'iormation given to such collector,
(pointing to the collector entitled to a distributive
share.) a moiety of the moiety shall be given io the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

V73

informer. The grammaf;cal cor,nex.011 of the word , 1816.
as well as the obvious exposition of the clause, supposes that the collector who receives the informa- !:bor,V.
"sexetion, and commences the suit, is the person eiititied
cutor
to the distributive share of the forfeiture. In the
next place it is provided, that when the forfeitures

are rcvovered, in consequence of any information
given by any officer of the revenue cutter, one moiety thereof shaHl be distributed among the'officers of
such cutter. Can there be a doubt that the persons
who were officers at the time of the information, and
not those who were officers at the time of the receipt
of the forfeitures, are the parties entitled to this
moiety? Yet the same reasoning applies here, with
equal.force, as in the case of the collector. So by
the embargo act of the 9th January, 1809, ch. 72.
s.12., forfeitures recovered, in consequence of any
seizure made by the commander of any public armed
vessel of the United States, are to be distributed according to the rules of the navy prize act of the 22d
April, 1800, ch. 33.; and it is clear,' beyond all
doubt, that the parties so entitled' are the officers
and crew at the time of the seizure. The analogous
rule, in cases of captures, jure beli, is here expressly
alludid to, and adopted.by the legislature, and that
rule stands on the same general foundation with that
of the common law. The right of captors to prizes
is but an inchoate rigi., and, until a conden,:ation,
no absolute title attaches. But when condemnation
has passed upon the property, it relates back to -the
:apture, and although the parties have died in the
yVl. T

474

CASES IN TIE SUPREME COURT

intermediate time, the title vests inpropriovigore ilr
representatives.
Stheir
Jones
Much stress has been laid upon the clauses in the
S~hore's exe.
89th and 91st sections of the collection law of the
cutor.
1816.

2d March,'1799, which authorize the collector to
receive from the proper officer of the court -the moneys recovered in suits for penalties and forfeitures,
and which require him to pay and distribute the
same, according to law, among the officers of the
customs, and other parties entitled thereto. But
these provisions are merely directory to the collector, and do not vest in him any personal right to the
money received, which he did not before possess;
much less -do they authorize the suppositiou that,
until the receipt, no title vested in any person. It
might, with as much force and propriety, be urged,
that, until the same epoch, no right to the other
moiety vested in the United States; for the statute is
equally mandatory and precise in this case as in the
other. It would., however, be quite impossible to
contend, upon any legal principles, that the title ol
the United States was not, to all intents and purposes, consummated by the judgment.
The same reasoning which has been used in respect to forfeitures in rein, applies to persdhal penalties; and it is unnecessary to ri~peat it. The court
are clearly of opinion, that the right of the collector
to forfeitures in rem attaches on seizure, and to personal penalties on suits brought, and in each case it
is ascertained and constimmated by the judgment;
and it is wholly immaterial whether the collector die
before or after the judgment. And they are fhrther

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Qf opinion,

that -the case of the surveyor is not, in

1816.

Jones.
this -respect, distinguishable, ii any manner, from
v; exethat of the collector.
They are, therefore, of opi- Shore's
•
cutor.
nion, that the representatives of the deceased collector and surveyor, and not the present incumbents in
office, are entitled to the distributive shares of the
moiety of the money now in the registry of the circuit court.
The next question is as to the proportions-in
which this moiety is to be divided between the representatives of.the collector and surveyor. Whatever may have been the practice in the district of
Petersburg, the words of the act admit of no reasonable doubt. The moiety is to be divided in equal
proportiogsbetween the collector, naval officer, and
surveyor, or between such of. the said officers as
there may be in the district. There was no naval
officer in the district of Petersburg, and, consequently, the division must be, in equal proportions,
between-the collector and surveyor.
It is the unanimous opinion of this court, that it
be certified to the circuit court, that it is the opinion
of this court,
1st. In the case of the United States against Jo,
seph Jones and others, that the moiety of the money now remaining in the custody of the circuit court,
in the proceedings in the case of the United States,
appellants, against Joseph Jones and others, mcntioned, should be paid to the said Joseph Jones, collector of the district of Petersburg, to be, by him,
divided in equal proportions between Thomas Shore,
as he is executor of the last will and testament of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
Patton's

Lesmce
tt

John Shore, deceased, and Reuben M. Gillian, as he
is administrator of-the goods and eficts of Andrew
Tarbone, deceased.
-2d. !n the case of Thomas Shore and another

against Joseph Jones and others, that the representative of the late survcyor, in right of his intestate,
was entitled to receive one moiety of that portion of
the penalty in the proceedings mentioned, which is
by law to be distrib, ted among the several revenue
officers of 'the district wherein the penalty was
incurred.

(LOCAL LAW.)
PATTON'S

Lessee v.

EASTON.

Under the act of the legislature of Tennessee, passed in 1797, to explain an act of the legislature of North Carolina, of 1715. a possession of seven years is a bar only when held under a grant, or a deed
founded on, a grant.
The act of assembly vesting lands in the trustees of the town of l.shville, is a grant of those lands, and when the defendant shovi d no
title under the trustees, nor under any other grant, his possession
of seven years was held insufficient to protect his title, or bar that
of the plaintiff under a conveyance from the trustees.
ERROR

to the circuit court for the district of West

Tennessee. This was an ejectment for one moiety
of a lot of land lying in Nashville. The cause was
argued at February term, 1815, by Humplhries and

