OF THE UNITED STATES.
1816.
The
Nereid.
(PRIZE.)

The JVereid.-PnITo, Claimant.
Under the Prize Act of June 26th, 1812, and the act of the 2d of
August, 1813, allowing A deduction of thirty-three and one third
per centum on " allgoods captured from the enemy And made good
and lawful prize of war, &c., and brought into the United 8tates,"
are not included goods captured and brought in for adjudication,
sold by.order of court, and ultimately restored to a neutral claimant as hig property; but such goods are chargeable with the same
zdte o"duties as goods imported in foreign bottoms.

Tins cause was originally brought into the circuit
cour, by appe.al from the district coirt for the southern district of New-York, in which the property,
claimed by Mr. Pinto, had been condemned as prize
of war. The djecfee of the .distridt court was affirmed in the circuit court,. September term, 1814;
pro forma, for the purpose of taking the cause..by
qpeal, before the supreme court, for its firial determination; which was accordingly done, and the decree of the circuit court. reversed, February termi
1815, except as to the undivided fourth part which
Mr. Pinto claimed or certain goods;- part bf the
cargo, his claim o whic was reinquished by his
counsel, on the argument of the- cause before the
supreme court. All the.other property claimed by
Mr. Pinto, for -himself and- other , was ordered to
be restored to him.- The cause was then remanded'
to the circuit court, with directions to carry the de-

1-72

CASES IN, THE SUPREME COURT

cree of the supreme court into'effect; and the mani
date f6r that purpose was filed in the circuit court,
"The
Nereid. April term, 1815, and. an order made in pursuance
of the mandate. It was then stated, and made to
appear to the satisfaction of the circuit court, thut,
after the Nereid and her cargo had been libelled by
the captors, as prize of war, in the district court, aid
after the condemnation thereof, except the parts of
the cargo which were claimed by Mr. Pinto, and
during the pendency cf such claim, Peter H.
Schenck, the prize agent of the Governor Tompkins,
entered the whole of the cargo of the Nereid at the
custom house of the city of New-York, and secured
the duties thereon; Mr. Pinto having consented that
the goods.which he claimed should be entered with
the others, and be subject to; the payment of such
duties as they were by law liable to, without prejudice to his rights under his'claim; that the prize
agent did teniter the goods, so condemned, (as also
the said goods of which Mr. Pinto claimed the one
fourth,) as prize goods, and bonded therefor for
prize duties; but was required by the collecto 'of
-the customs, and did enter all the residue of the
goods, claimed by Mr. Pinto, as neutral propeity
subject to the full duties payable on goods regularly.
imported in foreigr bottoms, and bonded for the same
#ccordingly. The goods claimed by Mr. Pinto
were afterwards, and before condemnation, sold by
the marshal of the districts together w;th the goods
condemned, in pursuance of an order of .the district
court, to which Mr. Pinto also consented, subject to
.the same reservation of his rights; and the pfoceqds
i816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the ,sales of the goods claimed by Mr. Pinto, after
deducting the duties, were paid into court; the
amount of the said duties having beei paid by the
marshal to the prize agent, with the consent of Mr
Pinto, for the prize agent's indemnity. The difference between the duties thus secured to be paid
"by the prize agent on the goods finally restored to
Mr. Pinto, according to the decision of the supreme
court, and those which would have been payable on
them, as prize goods, under the act of 'the 2d of
August, 1813, entitled, " An act for reducing the
duties payable on prize goods captured by the private
armed vessels of the United States," amounted to
11.079 dollars and 59 cents. After the mandate
and decree of the supreme court, respecting the iestitution of the goods claimed by Mr. Pinto, ",as
carried into effect by the circuit court, there remained in the district court the sum of 18,771 dollars and
63 cents, being the amount of the net proceeds of
the fourth part of the goods, Mr. Pinto's claim. to
which had been relinquished.
A motion was made in the circuit court on behalf
of Mr. Pinto, that the prize agent should be ordered
to pay to him, out of any of the proceeds of the sales
of the. condemned part of the Nereid and cargo, and
which were in, or might come to, his hands, the said
sum of 11,079 dollars and 59 cents, the difference
between the two rates of duties on the goods finallyrestored to Mr. Pinto, as before mentioned.
It then appeared to this court that three bonds
had been given, by the prize agent, for the duties on
those goods which were thus ordered to be restored

1816.
The
Nereid

174

1816.
The

Nlereid,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

to Mr. Pinto; that the two of those bonds which
first became due had been paid by the prize agent;
b.ut that The last, which became payable on the .9th
of February, 1815, and which was for the sum of
8,782 dollars and 97 cents, the dollector had suffered, as he said, to remain unpiaid until it should be
ascertained whether the property, on which said
duties were thus secured, was condemned to the
captors, or restored to the claimant. That after 'thd
mandate of th supreme. court Was returned to the
circuit court, the rcollector required the prize agent
to pay this bond, and he paid the same 'accordingly
on the 7th of April, 1815.
The court were divided in opinion on the point
respecting the -rates of duties chargeable on the
0oods so restored fo Mr. Pinto; whereupon it was
ordered that the said sum of 11,079 dollars 59 cents
shall remain subject to the opinion of the supreme
court, and that the residue of the 18,771 dollars
65 cents be paid to Mr. Schenck, as the prize agent.
And that thQ point on Which the disagreement of
tle judges of the circuit court took place should be
certified to the supreme court for their final decision
thereon.
-Hoffman, for the appellant and claimant. The
statutes on this subject are, 1st. The Prize Act
,of the 26th of June, 1812, s. 14., which repeals
the Non-Importatign Act, so far as respects goods
"rcaptured from the enemy, and made good and
lawful prize of war ;" and declares tha.t such goods,
"when imported and brought into the United
States, shall pay the same duties as goods imported

176

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1816.
in American v-essels in the ordinary -course of trade,"
&c. 2d. The act 'of the 2d of August, 1813, which' The
provides "that all goods capiuredfromthe enemy, and Nereid.
made good and lawful prize of war, &c., and brought
into the-United States, shall be allowed a deduction
of thirty-three. and one third per centurn." 3d. The
-acts of non-importation, prohibiting the importation

of'British goods.

1. The gdods in question being

of British manufacturej could only to imported under the Prize Act, and the act of the 2d of August,
1813.

They were captured friom the enemy, for

they were on board an enemy's vessel; fhly were
take.n as enemy's' property; they were ctptured anl
6rouo'ht in as good and 'lawfl prize

'f
war.

.T

character of the goods is determined at the time tuey
were brought in it is not to be determined by subseludnt events: duties are payable on goods on their
being first imported or brought- in; and the Prize
Act'puts these goods on thesamiY footing with othei-"
importations, and, of course, makes the duties oh
them payable at' the same time. 3. The wbrds
"gpod and lawful prize of war," -refer to the time
of capture, and not of condemna'tion. By the very
act of capture, the goods became prize; and being'
captured by a lawfully cqmmissioned vessel, -were
good, and lawful prize. The -expression "such
goods,", refers to goods so'captured., They are to,
pay 'when brought in, .and not subsequently, upon.
'condemnation. 4. The condemnation does not make
the goods prize of war; it merely puts an end to the
jus recuperandiof the former owner, and gives a new
title to the .purchaser. - The character of prize is,

176

1816.
The

Nereid.

CASE

IN, THE SUPREM

COUR.

then either confirmed by condemnation, or lost by
restitution. If the property is restored, it is rgleas4
ed from the character it had before borne from the
time'of capture, and ceases to be prize of war, but
being captured and brought in iis such, is to pay the
prize duties.
Pink'ney, for the respondents and captoi's. Thequestion now raised seemedto be settled by, thV decision in the case of the Concord, at the last term.
But, independently of authority, 4he question is manifestly against the claimant. - 1. Th6 goods were
not entered- under the Prize Act, and the act of
the 2d of August, 1813; but as neutral property
imported in a foreign bottom, and .having been sold,are evidently liable to the full duties on such goods,.
unless these acts authorize a diminution, of them.
2. These acts do not authorize such diminutidn; thie
goods were not captured -fromthe enemy, and lave
never been made good and lawful prize. '-They were
taken from Mr. Pinto, who was no enemy, either in
fact or constructively, according- to the judgment
of the court. If any thing, then, has made them lawful prize, how has, it happened that they have been
restored? The claimant's counseli to avoid the appearance of too bold a paradox, mitigates his conclusion on this head in such a way as proves nothing
for the purpose of his argument. He dnds with
saying,Ahat these goods were captured and brought
into the United States as good and lawful prize. He.
can scarcely, however, have intended to stop here,
for if his conclusion goes no farther, it surrenders the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

whole argument, unless it can be shown that to seize
and bring in as prize that Which is not good and
lawful prize, and never can become so, makes good
and lawful prize of the thing so seized and brought
in; or, in other words, that a seizure.and bringing
in, as prizes of neutral property, makes it, ipso jure,
good prize, although the owner is, nevertheless,
entitled to have it again, as not being good prize," and
has, in, fact, got it again accordingly. 3. The character of these goods, with reference to their liability to duty, was not determined at the time they were
brought in. If they had been specifically restored,
and withdrawn from the United States by the
claimant, they would have been liable to no duty.
4. The words "made good and lawful prize,' do not
refer to the capture merely: the act speaks of the
capture first, and then adds, " and made good and
lawful prize"' The capture, too, must be of enemy's
goods, either in fact, or in contemplation of law. To
say, that the goods are, by the act of capture, made
good and lawful prize, because the capture is made
by a lawfully c6mmissioned cruiser, is to drop more
than a' moiety of the definition, of good and lawful
prize, or, rather, to insist on that which is not an essential part of its definition. Prize may be made (as
a droit) by a ton-commissioned captor; but goodand
lawfulprize cannot be made by any captor, unless the
goods be liable to condemnation. It is theformula
of a sentence of condemnation, to'condemn the -thing
taken as " good and lawful prize" to the captors;
-and this not because it was taken by a lawfully
commissioned cruiser, but because, being so taken, it
-

VOL.

1.

-Z

lie

1816.
The

Nereid

178

1818.
The

Nereid.

March oth.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

was under all the circumstances subject to confiscation. 5. Capiure gives possession; but it is the condemnation which ascertains that the things taken are
good prize of war: until condemnation, it cannot be
known whether they are good prize or not. But,
certainly, it is self-evident, that after restitution 'it
must be held, that they were not good prize. The
condemnation does more than destroy the juis repuperandi. It establishes what nothing else can establish, that the goods were lawful prize. Restitution,
on the other hand, establishes, conclusively, that
they never were lawful prize, although they might be
justifiab!y seized, upon probable cause, as snob.
MARSHALL, Ch.J', delivered the opinion of the
court, that the goods were chargeable with the same
rate of duties as goods imported in foreign bottoms,
according to the decision in the case of the Concord.
at the last term;

