CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.

Tue
Rugen.

(PRIZE.)

The Rugen.-BuHa c, Claimant.
A question of jproprietary interest, and of trading witb the enemy.

APPFAL from the circuit Court for the' district of

Georgia. The Schooner Rugen and cargo were
libelled in the district court for that district, as prize
of war, either as belonging to the enemies of the
United States, or as the property of citizens who
had been trading with the enemy. A claim was initerposed by Mr. Buhr'ing, a subject of the king of
Sweden, on the ground that both vessel and cargo
belonged to him, and were, bonafide, neutral property. This claim was rejected by the district court;
which sentence was affirmed by the circuit court,
and thereupon the claimant appealed to this court.
Charlton, for the appellant and claimant, stated,
that the ship was formerly British, had been captured, condemned as prize of war in the district
court, and sold by the marshal to one Bixby, who
sold to Buhring, the present claimant.
. He cited
the case of the Sistersa as to the proprietary interest,
and argued, that the regularity of the papers -is
primz facie evidence of neutrality, and conclusive,
unless rebutted by contradictory proof. The primi5 Rob. 141.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1816.
tive national character of the ship --- changed by
was
legal.'
the
sale
to
a
neutral
condemnation, and
•
The
Testimony was irregularly admitted, which was Ttuegn.
neither taken in preparatorio, nor found on board,
nor invoked from any other captured vessel. 2.
The voyage was strictly within the range of neutral
"rights. If the neutral character of the ship 6ind
cargo was established, the destination was immaterial, whether to an enemy or neutral port. But the
ship was, in fact, destined to a noutral port, and diverted from her course by the enemy's vessel La
Decouverte. False papers may be used, if not to
cover enemy's property, or evade belligerant rights ;C
and this court is not bound to take notice of, or enforce, the revenue laws of other countries. 3. The
property ought to be restored with costs and damages, because the documentary evidence proclaimed
the neutral character of the ship and cargo.

The Attorney General and Pinknyg, for the .respondents and captors, stated, that this was one of
the plainest cases for cond'.hiation fhat ever came
into a court of prize, upon two grounds:
,1st. That jhe real property was not in the claimant, but ina citizen of the United States.
2d. That it was taken trading with the enemy.
1. In the Odin,' where the papers were complete,
and the res gesta similar to the transactions in this
b 1 Rob. 104. The Welvaart.
c 1 Rob. 139. The Vrouw. 3 Rob. 147. The Flora and Comniercium. 4 Rob. 166. The Convenientia. lb. 87. The Caroline.
d 1 Rob. 208.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

64
1816.

case, confiscation was decreed. The conduct and
of the claimant were the same as those of
Krefting, the Dane. According .to the doctrine of
Sir William Scott, exercising ownership by the same
master is conclusive;' but here the former owner
continued to exercise dominign over the thing pretended to be transferred in his own proper person.
The ship also continued in her originally intended employment, which was another badge of fraud! The
cases cited we'e of a transfer by the enemy to afneutral,
and the former master continued: but here the citizen
wishing to trade with the enemy takes a foreign garb
to deceive, not a foreign, but his own government.'
This case is to be arranged under that branch of
public law which depends upon the municipal law of
allegiance; and the presumption is more irresistible
than in the other, where the property is taken and
proceeded against as enemy's property. The vis
major, by which it is alleged the ship was compelled
to enter an enemy's port on the outward voyage, is
not such as would be admitted as an excuse for deviati6n, even in a fiscal :case, or in an action on a

Sresources

The

Rugen.

policy of insurance.

The endorsement of the ship's

papers by the enemy's vessel might have produced
a certain effect; but in'the view of the law of nations,
a parol order could have no effect, tnding to confiscation in a prize court, or even detention for trial.
The falsification and spoliation of papers, in this case,
would alone be sufficient to justify condemnation.
e I Rob. 217. The Odin.
f 6 Rob. 71. The Omnibus. 4 Rob. 26.
g I Rob. 111. 131. The Two Brothers.

The Jenny.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Spol'ation of papers may be explained, by the prepa-

rafory .examinations so as to affect the question'of
costs only; but here; taken in connexion. with the
.Rirpulated papers, the false destination,* and- the
other' circumstances of mwa fides, it it conclusive.
uh of the evidence in the .case, according to the,

striqt regularity of prize practice, is inadmissible; but
the proceedings may be-considered asequivalent .t
an order for farther proof. The case 'of the Sisters
was befor6 the court of admiralty as an Intance
Court:; an equitable title, conflicting with a legal,
and there' being no constat of property, the court'
according to the notions which prevail in Englaid,
could. not interfere. 2. Supposing the property to
be in the claimant, it cannot. be restored; he was -a
resident in the United States,- ana carried on a.trade
with the enemy, contrary to the- obligations of his
temporary allegiance." And supposing the ship to
have been compelled to en ter the enemy's port by
vis major, the purchase of'a ieturni'cargo would im.
port confiscation, being, a 'voluntary act of triading
with the enemy. Costs and damages ought. to be
i A neutral subject domiciled'in cifizens of the belligerant state
the.belligerant state, is cofisider- reident in a neutral country,
ed as a nierchaht of that country, whose trade with the enemy is conso as to render his property taken sidered as lawful; except in c'nin' trade with the enemy liable to traband of war, which is deemed
sapture And confiscation, in the inconsistent with their permanent'
same manner as that of persons allegiance, and, it may be added,
9wing permanent allegiance to is equally prohibited to them in
the state. 6 Rob. 26. Tbe Im- their cbardcter of neutral merdian Chief. 'Tie converse of the chants. Vide 6 Rob. 408. The
rule is 2,Iso apilied to subjects or Neptunus.
VoL. I

1M16.
The
RizgeD.

CASES IN THE SUPREMfE COURT

1816.
The

1Ragen.

awarded to the captors, it being a fraudulent case,
and the property delivered to the appellant upon
bail.
Charleton, for the appellant and claimant, in reply. A national character is impressed by the flag
and pass. If the property is neutral, the master
had a right to clear out.with a false destination, according to the authority of the Neptunus, since it -is
not usual to clear out from one hostile port to another.
The simulated papers were not intended for the purpose, and could not hive the effect, of defrauding
this country of its rights as a power at war.* The
destruction of papers was accidental, and the circumstances of the case are not like those of the Odin.

Peb. 20th.

J., delivered the opinion of the court.
It has been contended, that this vessel and-cargo
were bonafide the property of the appellant, a subject of Sw'eden, who had a right to trade with the
enemy of the United States; and that having done
nothing to forfeit his neutral character, both the sentences below were erronfeous, and ought to be reversed. To entitle himself to such reversal, the
claimant has undertaken to show, and insists that he
has shown, that at the time of, and previous to, the
departure of the Rugen from the United States, she,,
as well 'as the cargo on board, was his property,
and that he was then, and still ib, a subject of the
king of Sweden, with whom the United States were
LIVInGSTON,

at peace.

The court will now proceed to inquire how f4; Mr.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Buhring has succeeded in establishing the facts on
which he relies for a restitution of thig property.' .
pursuing this inquiry, it may become unnecessary to
decide Whether the papers which- were on. board
were sufficient to entitle the Rugen to-the privileges
"ornational character of a Swedish vessel; because,
whatever may be their regularity and effect, yet,'if
the court shall be of opinion that .they were only
colourable, and that an American citizen, and rot the
claimant, was owvner of the vessel and cargo, it will
not be pretended that belligerant rights can be
eluded u this way; or that the subject of a state at
war can, uw'er cover of neutral muniments, however
'regularly proyured, or formal they may be, violate,
with impunity, his duty and allegiance to his own
contry. So far from such iocuments,. when intended only as a cover, affording any protectioo to
the property, they render the party resorting to them.
doubly criminal, by the scene of fraud and 'perjury
which must be waded. through 'in- order to obtain
them; and then, in case of disaster, to ,make a couk't
believe that such papers disclose .nothing but the real
truth of the case. The whole controversy will then
be resolved into the single questiol, whethei, in
point of fact, Mr. Buhring, or Messrs. Samuel and
Charles Howard, who are citizens of the United
States, were owners of. the Rugen and her cargo at
the time of-her sailing from Savannah, and" on her
return to the ,United States. It mtust ever be a painful task to investigate testifnony where a result unfavourable to the claimant can only proceed from a
conviction that the principal agents in the tran:-ac..

1816.
Thne

Rupp.

CASES IN THE SUi'REME COURT

1816.
'

The
Rugen

tion have acted either fraudulently, or contraryto
their known duty as good citizens. Such is the duty

now imposed on the court.
The claimant is said to be a Swede. Itthis 'h
admitted, and it seems not to be denied, we are com-pelled, by the very suspicious circumstances of this
case, to look beyond his national character, and to
inquire very particularly into his situation at the time
he embarked, or became connected with this adventure. " Had he ever been a merchant in his own couhtry, 6r elsewhere? Had he ever resided in any of
our seaports, or carried on business of any kind
there, or in any other place ? Had he, at any time2
means to purchase this vessel and cargo; or was he
sufficiently known to have acquired a credit to thbbt
extent? These questions were all asked by tie
advocate of the captors, to which no satisfactory ans'wer was given on the argument; and it is iii vain
that the proceedings are searched for a solution of
either of them at all favourable to the-present claim.
On the contrary, easily as every difficulty on these
points might have been dispelled, if this were a fair
proceeding, no attempt of: the kind has been mado,
or if it has, it has terminated in establishing that Mr.
Buhring's situation. and circumstances were such as
preclude all reasonable doubt of his being any other
than the ostensible owner of the vessel and cargo.
He was a young man, only twenty-one yars old, residing, as well as his brother William, in South
Carolina, with. Mr. Scarborough, Vice Commercial
Agent of the king of Sweden, for the state of Georgia. From this retirement he is drawn, and, for the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

irst time, intr9duced to the notice of the mercantile
world -b the Messrs. Howards, who appear to- be
merchants of considerable property and credit, residing. at Savannah, in the State of Ueorgia. Between
these gentlemen and Mr. Buhring there could have
been but very little previous acquaintance ; for'the
latter airied at Savannah from Europe only two-or
three -months before w6 find him engaged in tY-con!.
cerns of-the Rugen ; and after remanining not more
than three or four days in that city he went to reside
in the country of South Carolina, whence he did not
return to Savannah until he came back with Mr. C.
H6ward, a very few days before the Rugen sailed.
It is,not, then, harsh'to presume, that the strogest
and only recommendation of Mr. Buhring 'Was his
national character.' The Messrs. Howards appear, at
the time, to have been in search of a Swede, and were
not long in meeting with one whos6 youth and inexperience well fitted him for the purposes for vhich,
there is so much reason to believe, he was wanted.
A *feeble attempt, however, has been 'Made to show
that Mr..Buhring was not without credit as well as
funds. To the former point one witness: has beei
examined, and to establish that he was not entirely
destitute of property, ii has been shown that he attually gave Itwo notes, amounting, together, to abouf
4,.00 dollars, for the Rugen and her cargo,. in tie
month bf May, 1813, payable in four months after

date ; that these notes, as they became die, were
taken up by him with great ppmctuality -at.one of the
banks in Savannah. Wnether these notes were
really made at the time when they bear date, may

1,81ro.
he

Rugen.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

%
The

Rugen.

well be doubted; but it admits of no doubt that they
were discharged with the proper moneys of the
Messrs. Howards, which, had almost the moment
before been drawn, by one of them, out of the bank,
and put into the hands of MT. Buhring for that purpose. With the funds, then, of Mr. Howard, and
not with those of Mr. Buhring, were these notes
taken ip; and a contrivande, which was intended to
make Mr. Buhring appear as a man of property, has
not only altogether failed, lut has addef very considerable weight to the suggestion of the captors,
that he was a young man totally destitute of the
means of purchasing and paying for the property which, it is now alleged, belonged to him.
But we now find Mr. Buhring at Savannah; and.
what is done with him? or what does he do with
himself, on his arrival there? Does he go about to
purchase a vessel ? Does he, when ie is told that
the Rugen belongs to him, take any measures to fit
her ouit? Does he provide a crew ? Does he agree
for their wages? Does he purchase a cargo? Does
he see to its being put on board ? Does he effect insurance ? or is he found doing any one act which might
naturally be expected from an owner? All this trouble had already been most kindly taken off his hands
by his new friend and acquaintance, Mr. Howard.
This gentleman, had already.(if we are to believe
the history of this transaction as it is narrated by the
claimant) provided him with a- vessel and cargo, although it does not appear that he had instructions or
funds of Mr. Buhring for the purpose. It is true.
that with a caution that was very excusable, consider-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

71

ing the circumstancei, of Mr. -Buhring, the bill of 1816.
sale which had been executed by the marshal, with
The
a blank for the name of the vendee, was not put into Rugen.
the possessioh of Mr.: Buhring, but carefully retained
by the Messrs. Howards, they executing to him one
in their own names, although they now say they never
were the owners of the vessel. And even this bill
of sale, it is very probable, remained in the custody
of Mr. Samuel Howard during the whole of the
voyage to Jamaica and back to the United States.
Every thing being now in readiness for their departure from Savannah, Mr. Buhring appears on board,
and is introduced to the mate and crew,'not merely as
owner of vessel and cargo, but as master for the"
voyage. *Whether any surprise were excited on
board by the new character in which the dlalmant
appeared, or whether they expressed any reluctance
at placing themselves uhder his command, awe know
not; nor is it a fact very necessary to ascertain, because they must soon have discovered that Mr.
S'amuel Howard, whose friendship for.Mr. Buhring
seems to have had no limit, and in whose seamanship
they may have had full confidence, intended to go
with the vessel, and relieve Mr. Buhring froni the
troublesome task, if he were equal to it, of navigating the Rugen. For this conduct, on the part of
Mr. Howard, no 'other reasonable motive can be assigned than an interest in the vessel and cargo.
The allegation of his going after certain funds in Carthagena is not at all made out. The Rugen'leaves
Savannah on the 5th or 6th of May, bound, as is alleged, for Carthagena. but arrives at.Kingston, in

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

'2

1818.
"

The

ugen.

the island of Jamaica. The court is not at all satis.
fled with the excuses which have been made for her
going there. It does not appear that a vis najor of
any-kind existed. She was neither forced in by adverse winds, nor was she under any restraint from
capture. When within only fourleagues of the island
she was boarded by aBritish brig of war called La
Decouverte, whose commander ordered her into
Kirigston. He putno prize-master on board; -nr
did he endorse any of her papers; nor did he keep
company with her: and yet we find her doing exactly Vhat she was verbally directed to do. It is
faintly pretended, that if she had attempted, after
that, to go to Carthagena, she could not have escaped
the British cruisers which swarmed about the island.
But what greater danger, if the property were neutral,
would ensue on a capture by any other British vessel
than by her going to a British port as pri* to the
Decouverte, or by her orders? It is believed, then,
that her going to Jamaica was voluntary, and form'ecl
part of the original plan; which opinion deriv'es considerable support.from the fact of insurance having
been made, .not only for Carthagena, but also for a
port in the West Indies; from the nature of th6 outward cargo; from the readiness 'with which they
consented to dispose of it at that place, and procured another for this country promising a much greater
profit than any which at that time could have been
imported from Carthagena. There is yet a still
stronger circumstance to prove that the destination
of the Rugen to Carthagena was fictitious; and that
is, her meeting at Kingston a ship called the Wan.

73

OF THE UNITED STATES.

schop, which had sailed from Savannah but a little
before the Rdtgen. On board of that. vessel we find

1816.
The

Mr. William'Buhring, a brother of the claimant, and
we have es ery reason to, believe that .he belQn'ged,
with her cargo, tothe same concern. The Wanschep.
it is also said, was destined for, Porto Bello, on the
Spanish Main; but by a strange coincidence of events,
- which can scarcely have been the effect of chance
alone, she also ge t'6utof her 6otirse, falls'in with the
*samne British vessef'of War which afterwards bodrd"d the Rucren; receives the like-order to proceed to
*ingston, which she also very, proxaptly, and without any apparent reluclance, 'omplied with. The
business of these two-vessels is managed by the same
houie in Kingston, and tlhe proceeds of both of their
carg'oes are invested in imolasses, rur; &C., which
9oiaposed the return catgo of the Rugen. If- the
propefty claimed were bona fide Swedish it would
,be superfluous' +to inquire whether "the Rtiien's
going to Jamaica were voluntary, or by coercion, a
subject, of Swden ha.ving, for aught that appears,
as good right to trade there bs at Carthage'na. But
if it-b-loriged to the American" gentlemen, who
h've had an agency so conspicuous in th whdle
of this business, (and that it did is our unanimous

Tuten.

opinion,) it will not bepretended that they totild go
to Kingston unless by cbmpulsi6n, or. that thleY had
anyright'during the late war to purchase and bring
a cargo from any british port to this or any 6ther
country.
The court having already -expressed, its 6pinion,
that this vessel and ctrgo did not belong to the
VOL.. rK

74

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

The
Rugen.

claimant, but to citizens of the United States, the
latter having been purchased at Kingston, as is believed, with their funds; it becomes quite unnecessary
to inquire what was the real destination

of the

Rugen on her leaving Kingston; whether she were
bound, in fact, to Amelia Island, or to the United
States; although it might not be very difficult to
come to a satisfactory conclusion that Hardwicke; in
Georgia, was her real port of destination. But this
exanination is unnecessary; for the owners, being
American citizens, are equally guilty of trading. with
the enemy, whether that trade were carried on between a British port and the United States, or between such port and any foreign nation; and in the
present cane, if the court be coriect in the -view
which it has taken of the evidence, the offence of
trading with the enemy was complete the moment
the Rugen sailed from Savannah with an intention
to carry her cargo to Kingston, in Jamaica. Upon
the whole, without taking notice, of many of the,
arguments urged by the 'advocates of the captors in
favour of condemnation, and which are entitled to
great consideration, the court is unanimously of opinion, that the decree of the circuit court, rejecting the
claim of Mr. Buhring, was corr'ect, and must, in alt
things, be affirmed.

Sentence affirmed with costs.

