CASES IN THE SUPREMFe COURT

1816.
Davis

V.

The circuit court appears to have considered the
case as coming. within the proviso of the 2d section.
If in this opinion that court were even to be thought
mistaken, the error does not injure the petitioner, and
is, therefore, no cause foi reversal. The court is
unanimously of opinion, that the judgment ought to
be affirmed.
Judgment affirmed.

(LOCAL LAW.j

.Negro JOHN DAVIS et at. v. WooD.
Evidence by hearsay and general reputation is admissible only a3 to
pedigree, but not'to establish the freedom of the petitioner's ancestor, and thence to deduce his or her own.
Verdicts' are evidence between parties and privies only; and a record
proving the ancestor's freedom to have been established in a suit
against another party by whom the petitioner was sold to the present
defendint, is inadmisgible evidence to prove the petitioner's freedom

THis case was similar to the preceding, in which

the petitioners excepted to the opinion of the court
below: 1st. That they had offered to prove, by competent witnesses, that they -(the witfiesses) bad
heard old persons, now dead, declare, that a certain Mary Davis, now dead, was a white woman,
born ,in England, and such was the general report in
the neighbourhood where she lived; and also offered the same kind of testimony to prove that Susan

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Davis, mother of the petitioners, was lineally descended, in the female line, from the said Mary; and it was
admitted, that said Susan was, at the time of petitioningfree, and acting, in all respects, as a free woman;
which evidence, .by hearsay and general reputation,
the court refused to admit, except so far as it was ap
plicable to the fact of the petitioners' pedigree. 2d.
That ihey having proved, that the petitioners are
the children of Susan Davis, and that she is the same
persor named in a certain record in a cause wherein
Susan, Davis, and her daughter Ary, were petitioners
agaihst Caleb Swan, and recovered their freedom,

the plaintiffs offered to read said record in evidence
.o the jury, as prima fade testimony that they are
descendants in the female line from a free wowan,
who was born free, and are of free condition, connected with the fact that the defendant in this cause
sold said. Susan to SWan, the defendant in, said re6
cord, which the court refused to suffer the petitioners
to read to the jury as evidence in this cause.
Lee, for the plantifs indrror, and petitioners, referred to the opinion of the court (DUVAL, J., dissenting) inthe case of .Jbima Queen and child v. Hepburn,
February Term 1813, as to the admissibility. of hearsay evidence in a similar case, remarking that unless
the court was disposed to review its decision, it must
be takerf for law, and he could not deny its authority,
The petilioners in that case were de
scended from a yellow woman, a native of South
[DUVAL, J.

isia.
Davis

V.
Wool

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1815.
Davis
Y.

wood

America. In this case they are descended from a
woman.]

Swhite

Lee cited the opinion of the Virginia court of appeals, in the case of Pegram v. Isabela as to the admissibility of the record, in which a record was admitted,
Key, contra, contended, that both grounds were
irrevocably closed against the other*party. The
first certainly; and the second equally so; as the
cvi :ence could not be admissible as prima fjaie testimony merely, but if admitted must be conclusive.
The decisions in the state courts of Virginia are againsf
the evidence of the parent's or other ancestor;s freedom being ccnclusive in favour of a child; The case
of Pegram v. Isabel is no authority here, for it was
formerly considered and repudiated by this court in
the decision alluded to.
Lee and Law replied, and cited 2 Washington's
Rep.64., and Swinet's Law of Evidence, 13.

Mlarch 12th.

MARSHALL, Ch. J., delivered the opinion of the
court, and stated, that, as to the first exception, the
court had revised its opinion in the case of .Jkirna.
Queen and child v. Hepburn, and confirmed it. As to
the second exception, the record was not between
the same parties. The rule is, that vrdicts areevideuce between parties and privies. The court does
tt 2 1 ren. Z- J.tuf. Rep. 192.

OF THP UNITED STATES.

not feel inclined to enlarge the exceptions to this
general rule, and, therefore, the judgment of the
court below is affirmed.

(INSTANCE COURT.)

The Sanzel.-Pmrtd and BEACH, Claimants.
4Frosecutions under the-Non-Importation Laws are causes of admirtlty
and maritime jurisdiction, and the proceeding may be by libel'in the
admiralty.
Technical nicety is-not rejuirqd iia such proceedings; itis sufficient if
the offence be describeil in the words of the law, and so set forth
that, if the allegation be true, the case must be within the statute.
That the deponent is a seaman on board a gun-boat in a certain -iarhour, and Ziable to be ordered to some otherp lace, and.not to be able
to attend the court at the time of its sitting,is not a sufficient reason
for taking his dep6sition de bene esse, under the judiciary act of i789.
'Where the evidence is so contradictdry and ambiguous as to render a
decision difficult, th.e c&urt will. order further proQf- in a revenue or
instance cause.

from the Circuit Court for the Rhode
Island district. The brig Samuel sailed from St.
Bbartholomews, an islnud belonging 'to.his majesty
the king, of Sweden, in the month of November,
181X, with.a cargo consisting of rum, molasses; and
some other artides, and arriyed in Newport, Rhode
Island, on the 8th of the following December, where
the vessel and cargo were seized and libelled in the
'district court as being forfeited to the Unitad States,
under the act of congress prohibitng the imortaAPPEAL.

VW,.T.

B

1io.
Th9 Smuek

