440

CASES IN THE SU.PREME COURT

1816.
" The

the direction of the judges of that court, transnit,
by some safe conveyance, to this court) the original

Hiram.

papers following, to wit, the Swedish registers of
the Elsineur, of the Allemon, and the Stackelburg;
the burgher's brief to Peter Hofstrom and to Runnels, and the bill of sale to Blagge. The climant
is also required to state the persons to whom the
vessel and cargo were consigned at Bath, in the
voyages to that place, together with a detailed account of those voyages.

(PRIZE.)

The Hiram.,-COrNTHWAT

ET AL.

Claimants.

An agreement in a court of common law, chancery, or prize, made
under a clear mistake, will be set aside.
Navigating under a license from the enemy is cause of confin.ertion,
and is, closely connected in principle with the offence of trading
with the enemy; in both cases, the knowledge of th. agent will
affect the principal, although he may, in reality, be ignorant of the
fact.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of
Massachusetts. This was a vessel laden with flour,
and bound from Baltimore, to Lisbon, captured, and
finally corldemned by this court at- February term,
1814, for sailing under a license from the enemy.
The present case was that of the claimants ef a
greater part of the cargo. The ship was owned,

OF THE UNITED STATES..

1816.
and the license procured, by. Samuel G. Griffith, a
citizen of the United States. Separate bills of lading ' The
were at first signed by the master, one for each ship- Hiram.
per, and separate letters of instruction were given to
Patterson Hartshorne, the supercargo. But, in the
expectation, as was alleged, that in case of detention
the delay and expense would be less considerable if
the cargo appeared to be the property of one individnal, than if there should be several small claims,
one general bill of lading was signed to the owner
of the ship, and one general letcr of instruction was
given in his name to the supercargo, so as to make
the whole cargo appear to be owned by Mr. Griffith, the owner of the ship, and of a small part of the
cargo. At the May term, 1814, of the circuit court,
the property of the claimants was-condemned 'by
that court upon the ground that their covnsel had,
at the preceding term, entered into an agreement

with the captors that the decision of the supreme
court, as to Griffith's'claim, should conclude the rest.
Of this agreement the circuit judge had made a memorandurn in his minute book, but it was not entered
on the records of the court until the May term, at
which condemnation was pronounced, when it was
admitted by the claimants' counsel to havc 6een
made, and was recorded. From this last sentence
of condemnation, an appeal was taken to this court.
Pinkne1 , for the appellants and claimants. 1. The
claimants of the cargo cannot be concluded by the
verbal agreement in the court below, so as to exclude them from farther proof. The agreement was,
Vol, .

3K

442

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

that the decision of this court, as to the ship, should
bind the fate of the cargo, and was entered into upon
The
1irm. a mistaken supposition that the 'question was the
oame in both cases. The court of chancery will
grant a rehearing though the parties have entered
into an order by consent to abide the decree, and
not to appeal.a If a court of equity will do it, why
will not a court of prize, which is still more liberal in
its practice, do the -same thing? 2. Although farther
proof was ordered by the court below, it did not
apply to the claiinants' dase as distinguishable from
that of the ship owner, and they may, and ought to,
be let in to farther proof again.b 3. The principle
on which a court of prize proceeds in confiscating
the property of a citizen for the offnce of sailing
with a license from the enemy, has its root in the
municipal code. It is but enforcing the rule of municipal law, as to allegiance, in a court of the law of
nations. Therefore, the party cannot be liable to a
penalty civiliter unless- he would have been liable
criminaliter: the presumption of law is, indeed,
against the party, but it is a presumption which will
bend to fact -'and there must be un actual participation, by knowing the fact, or a virtual participation
in neglecting to make the proper inquiries. If the
fact of trading with the enemy be a misdemeanor,
the scienter must be laid in the indictment; and it
Taust be a misdemeanor, or a court of prize cannot
1816.

-

V
274. Vide 2 Ve .
a 3 Pe ere W19 M. Buck v. Turcott. 1 Ven.
458.

! Bob. 3M.The Harmony. 6 R,

132. The Franumu.

OF THE UNITED STAT1ES.

443

furnish it. Resistance to the right of search by a
neutral, ignorant of the existence of war, does not

1816.

import confiscation., Why? Because there was no
intention to commit an offence. Ignorance of one

Hiram.

part owner of a ship, where the owners are not ge"neral partners, will exempt his share from the penalty of confiscation for carrying contraband.d Spoliation of papers, by the master, does not preclude the
owners from farther proof, though it does preclude
him.' The owner of the cargo. is .not held responsible for the master's breach of blockade, unless the
blockade was known to exist before the voyage corn
menced/ There must be the intention as well as the
act of trading with the enemy to constitute guilt. The
confinentiamdelicti is here wanting; the ship owner was
not the agent of the claimants for this purpose; and supposing the supercargo to have been.their agent, where
will be found the application of the maxim respondeat
superior?In the prize court, when actingin the sphere
of its proper jurisdiction of cases arising under the
jus.gentium: but this is the case of the property of
a citizen taken in violation of his local allegiance.
The tourt must, therefore,.adopt the maxim of domestic jurisprudence, that guilt is never to be presumed,,-but always to be proved.
Dexter, for the respondents and captors, in. reply.
The agreement in the court below, that the case. f
c 5 Ro. 33. The St. Juan Baptista.
4 1 Rob. 330. The Jonge Tobias.
e 2 Rob. 108.
f 5 Rob. 262. The Adonis. lb. 267. The Shepherde.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
The

Hirmin.

the present claimants should abide that of thte ship
owner in this court was acknowledged by both parand
ties, and recorded nune pro tunc. It is impossible,
under the circumstances of this case, that it should
be a fact that the owners of the cargo did not know
the existence of the license; and, therefore, it is impossible for them to prove their ignorance of it. The
claimants are affected with knowledge, by the knowledge of their agents-tbe ship owner and the supercargo; but it is superfluous to discuss the question of
law, the facts are 'so clear.
MARSHALL, Ch. J., delivered the opinion of the
court.
l¥ixen the claimants, in this case, applied to the
circuit court to be .let in to farther proof, for the purpose of showing their ignorance of the fact that the
Hiramsailed under the protection of a British license,
the judge of that court considered the agreement oi
the parties that these causes should depend on the
fate of Griffith's claim, under which agreement the
sentence, that would otherwise have been pronounced
against them, was suspended until the decision of
the supreme court on that claim should be made, a,
having the same validity as if that agreement had
been entered, at the time, on the records of the court.
In that opinion, there having been no doubt respecting the fact, this court concurs. But this court is
also of opinion that if the agreement was made under a clear mistake, the claimants ought to be relieved from it, where it could be done without injury to
the opposite party. If a judgment be confessed

OF THE UNITED STATES.

under a clear mistake, a court of law will set that
judgment aside, if application be made, and the mistake shown while the judgment is in its power. An
agreement, made a rule of court, to confess a judgment cannot be stronger than a confession itself; and,
of course, a party will not be compelled to execute
such an agreement, but will be allowed to show
cause against the rule in a case where it was plainly
entered into under a mistake. If the judgment be
no longer in the power of a court of law, relief may
be obtained in chancery. Still more certainly will
an agreement, entered into in a suit originally depending in a court of chancery, be relaxed, or set
aside, if it be proved to the court to have been
entered into under a mistake. The case cited froni
Peere Williams is directly in point.
These principles are of universal justice, and of
universal obligation. They cannot apply with less
force to causes depending in prize courts than to
causes depending in other courts. The propriety,
then, of rejecting further proof in- this case, andof
condemning the property claimed by the appellants,
will ,end on the -clearness with which they show
the mistake under which the agreement was made,
and on their 'ability to support their case if that
agreement be set aside. If a real and substantial
difference exists between the case of the present
claimants, and that formerly decided by this court,
there will not be much difficulty in yielding to the
suggestion, supported, as it is, by the proof now offered, that this agreement was made without knowledge of that difference, and, consequently, by mis-

4i5
1816.
The

xiram.

446
1816.
The
Hiram.

CASES IN THE S.PREME COURT

take. But the question then occurs, whether restitution ought to be decreed to them, if the obligation of the agreement be removed.
The claimants allege that, in point of fact, they
did not know that the Hiram sailed under a British
license, and the proof they offer goes far in supporting this allegation. It is admitted that ignorance of this fact will save from the forfeiture incurred by it, unless the claimants have such constructive notice as will preclude them from showing the
want of actual notice. It has been argued that the
transaction rendered Griffith the agent of the other
shippers, so as to infect their claims with his knowledge; that by consenting that their property should
be shipped in his name, it becomes liable to all the
risks to which it would have been exposed had it
been actually his. It has been also argued that
the supercargo is clearly the agent of the shippers,
and that his knowledge of the license being on board
is, constructively, their knowledge. The counsel for
the claimants endeavours to rescue his clients from
the effect of this constructive notice, by contending
that the principle of respondeat superior can never apply to a case of a criminal nature; that a license
works a forfeiture, because it is a breach of allegiance-an offence which cannot be imputed to a
person having no knowledge of the criminal act
which constitutes the breach of allegiance: and that
this principle has, in prize courts, been applied to
-cases punishable under the law of nations; not to
offences against the government of the captor and
captured.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

The court considers the sailing, under an enem-'s
license, as closely connected, in principle, with the
offence of trading with the enemy; in which case it
is believed to be incontrovertible, that the knowledge of the agent would affect the principal, although he might, in reality, be ignorant of the facts
Upon this ground, the sentence of the circuit court is
affirmed with costs.
Sentence affirmed.
g Thus, where a shipment was
made to the enemy, by the partners of a house of trade, resident
in a neutral country, without the
knowledge or consent of a copartner resident in the belligerant
state, his share was held liable to
confiscation. 6 Rob. 129. The
Franklin. And it appears, from

that case, that even an inactive,
or sleeping, partner, (as it is
termed,) has been held, by the
Lords of Appeal, incapable of receiving restitution in a transaction in which he could not lawfully be enxgaged, as a sole tader. 1b. 131-

~:e
(LOCAL LAW.)
AsiMIDON V. SIITH ET Al
Under the laws of Rhode-Island, a discharge, according to the actfor
the relief of poor prisonersfor debt, although obtained by fraud and
perjury, is a lawful discharge, anl not an escape; -and, upon such a
discharge, no action can be maintained upon a bond for the liberty
of the prison yafd.

THis was an action of debt brought by the plaintiff against the defendant, in the circuit court of

1816.
Ammidon
V.

Smith;

