OF THE UNITED STATES.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J.

The -case of the sheriff's

91

i816.

bond is very different. The commission of sheriff,
-,,,
Corporation
.in
Virginia, is annual; of course, his sureties are of New-Orbound for one year only. It is true, the directors of leans
V..
this company are elected annually; but the company Winter.
has not said that the agent shall be for one year
only: his appointment is during pleasure. The
sureties do not become sureties in consequence of
their confdence in the directors, but of .their confidence in'the agent whose sureties they are. 'The
court isunanimously of the opinion that the judginent of the circuit court ought to be affirmed.
Judgment af.rmed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.)

Tii

CORPORATION OF NEw-ORLEANS V.
TER ET AL.

A citizen of a lerriiory.cannotsue a citizen of a state, in the courts of
the United States, nor can those courts take. jurisdiction by other
parties being joined, who are capable of suing. All the parties on
each side must be subject to the jurisdiction, or the suit will be dismissed.
ERROR

from the district court for the district of

Louisiana. The defendants in error commenced
their suit in'the said court, to recover the possession
and property of certain lands in the city of New-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Orleans ; claiming title as the heirs or Elisha Win.1816.
tgrant from the Span"Crro
,C'orporation ter, deceased, under an alleged
of N w-or- ish brovernlnent,I
in 1791 ; which lands, it was stated,
leans
were afterwards reclaimed by the Baron de Caronv.
delet, governor of the province of Louisiana, for the
use of fortifications. One of the parties, petitioners
in the court below, was described in the record as a
citizen of the state of Kentucky; and the other, as
a citizen of the .Mississippi territory. The petitioners-recovered a judgment in the court below, from
which a writ of error was brought.

JVinder, for the plaintiffs in error.

The court below had no jurisdiction of the cause. The case of
Hepburn & Dandas v. Ellzey,a determined that a citizen of the di 3trict of Columbia could not -sqe a cilizen of the state of. Virginia, in the courts of the
United States. The subsequent case of Strawbridge
etal. v. Curtis et al.' shows that all the parties on the
one side, and all the parties on the other, must be
authorized to sue and be sued in those courts, or
a defect of jurisdiction. The right of acthere i.s
tion was joint, bfit they might have severed it, vyhich
they. did

-not,

and they are incompeten.t to join in

point of jurisdiction.
.Key, contra. A citizen of the Mississippi territory has a right t6 sue in the courts of,the United
States.

This point was left open in the decision of

a 2 Cranch, 445.

S2S Cranca, t6M2

OF THE UNITED STATES.'
1816.
the case of Sere v. Pitot.c There is a manifest disbetween
the
right
of
a
cititinction, in this respect,
Corporation
zen of the district of Columbia, and of the Missis- of TNOW-Orlens
sippi territory. The jurisdiction of the district court
of Louisiana, is the same with that of Kentucky. Winter
The several territories are " members of the American confederacy." The constitution puts the citizens of the district of Columbia on the same footing
with inhabitants of lands ceded for 'the use of dockyards, &c.; they arc not "members of the American
confederacy." The district has'no legislative, executive, nor judicative authority, power, or privileges.
The territories have them all. They are in a sort
of minority and pupilage; have the present right
of sending delegates to Congress, and of bein'g hereafter adipitted to all.the immunities of states, in the
peculiar sense of the constitution. In this case, each
partytakes an undivided interest, and has a right to
a separate action, whether the inheritance be of
moveable or of real property.

this'
Haiper,in reply. There is no distinction, it"
particular, between the district of Columbia and the
territories. Congress might give to the district a
delegate, with the. same privileges as. the delegates
from the territories. The United States are the
.common sovereign of all thege communities; and
may grant or refuse this, or any other privilege, at
their pleasure. The action is broiight jointly, not
each Waming his -severalpart; and the court cannot
c 6 Cran.h, 36G.

94

i81g.

CASES IN THE

disconnect the parties.

SUPREME COUR'I

The petitioners complain

~ under the eivil law, by the rules of which it ip not
Corporation"
of Net,-Or- competent for them to seVer.
Iea.s

Winter.

Spahish law, which
prevailed in Louisiana before its acquisitiof by this
country, is a modification of the Roffian. 'By the

civil law, iriheritances of real as well as personal
property, are joint. What is-the mode of proceeding ? Tl~ough ambiguous and 'iixed, it is chiefly the
civit law process, like our chancery proceedings.
All parties must, therefore, regularly h .e been be-,
fore the court.
Feb . 23th.

J., delivered the c6inion of the
court, and, after stating the facts, proceeded as
follows:
The proceedings of the cobrt, therefor6, isfarrested in limine, by a question tespecting its jurisdiction.
In the case. of Hepburri & Dundas v. Elizey, this
court detprmied, on mature consideration, that a
citizen of the district of Columbia could not maintain a siit in the circuit court of the United States.
That 'pinion is still retained.
It has been attempted to distiriguish, a Territory
from the- district of Columbia; but the court is of'
opinion, that this distinction cannot be maintained.
They may differ in mriany respectA" but neither of
them is a state, in -the sense in which that term is
used in the constitution. Every reason assigned for
the opinion of the court, that a citizen of Columbia
was not capable of suing in the courts of the United
States, under 'he Judiciary Act, is equally applicable
to a citizen of a territpry. Gabriel Winter, then,
MARSHALL, 'Ch.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

being a citizen of the Mississippi Territory, was in1816.
capable of mainldining a suit alone in the circuif•Corporation
Orcourt of Louisiana. Is his case menided by being of New
leans.
.
in
suing
of
capable
are
who
others
with
associated
that court? In the case of Strawbridge et al. v. Winter.
Curtis et al., it was •decided, that where a'joint in"terest is prosecuted, the jurisdiction cannot b6 sustained, unless each individual be entitled to 6laim
that jurisdiction.
In this case it has been doubted,
whether the parties might elect to sue jointly or s6verally. Uowe.ver this may be, having elected to
sue jointly, the coirt is incapable of distinguishing
their case, so far as respects jurisdiction, from one
in which they were compelled to unite. The circuit
court of Louisiana, therefore, had no jurisdictiorn of
the cause, and their judgment must, on that account,
be reversed, and the petition dismissed.

Judgment reversed.

