-)F THE UNITED STATES
1816.
The
Elsincur.
'PRIZE.)

Thie Ehineur.-JoNE:, Claimant.
Where an inspection and comparison of original documents is material to the decision of a prize cause, this court will order the original
papers to be sent up from the court below.
APPEAL

from the circuit court for the district of

Georgia.
In this case, which" was principally a' question of
fact, Pinkney and Charleton, for the claimant, stated,
that the condemnation in the court below was partly
grounded on a comparison of certain documents in
this case, with a paper invoked from the Stackelburg.,
another prize cause brought from the same court ;
that comparison of hands can never be evidence in a
court that has not the two writings before it; and
that the original papers might be brought up from
the court below, in tite same manner as the record
ip removed upon a writ of error in England.
The ft'l Hing order was riade by the court:

In this case it is ordered, that the clainiant make
farther proof respecting the letter dated at St. iBarts,
September Is', 1813, and signed Jasper D. Blagge,
which is now ofiered to the court; that he show
where ie received ii, and whiy it has been so long
suppressed. It is i'rther ordered, that the clerk of
1h' circuit court for the distrrct of Gorgia, do, under

Mari.h 21.t

440

CASES IN THE SU.PREME COURT

1816.
" The

the direction of the judges of that court, transnit,
by some safe conveyance, to this court) the original

Hiram.

papers following, to wit, the Swedish registers of
the Elsineur, of the Allemon, and the Stackelburg;
the burgher's brief to Peter Hofstrom and to Runnels, and the bill of sale to Blagge. The climant
is also required to state the persons to whom the
vessel and cargo were consigned at Bath, in the
voyages to that place, together with a detailed account of those voyages.

(PRIZE.)

The Hiram.,-COrNTHWAT

ET AL.

Claimants.

An agreement in a court of common law, chancery, or prize, made
under a clear mistake, will be set aside.
Navigating under a license from the enemy is cause of confin.ertion,
and is, closely connected in principle with the offence of trading
with the enemy; in both cases, the knowledge of th. agent will
affect the principal, although he may, in reality, be ignorant of the
fact.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district of
Massachusetts. This was a vessel laden with flour,
and bound from Baltimore, to Lisbon, captured, and
finally corldemned by this court at- February term,
1814, for sailing under a license from the enemy.
The present case was that of the claimants ef a
greater part of the cargo. The ship was owned,

