OF THE UNITED STATE.
1816.
IHepbtr

W

(CHANCERY.)
l-EPBURN-& DUNDAS' HEIRS AND EXECUTORS

Dunlop .&

v. -DUN-

jLoP & COMPA.
DUNLo

-& ComI'A-Y

ip. HBPB~uRN & DUNDAS' HEIRS

AND EXECUTORS.
A court of dquifty ill decree a specific performance.of a contract for
the sale of land, if the vendor is able to make a good title at.ani
time before the decree is pronounced; but the dismission of 4 bill
to enforce a specific performagce in such a case, is'a bar to a new
bill for the same object.
The iability of the vendor to' make a good title at the -time the
decree is pronounced, though it forms a sufficient ground for refusi
a specific performance, will not authorize a court of equity to rescind the a#eement ii a case where the parties have an adequate
remedy at law for its breach.
The alienage of the vendee is an insufficient ground to entitle the
vendor to a decree for rescinding a contract for the sale of lands,
though it may afford a reason. for refusing a specific performance ps
against the vendee.
But if the parties have not an adequate remedy at law, the vendor
may be considered as a trustee for whoeier may become purchasers
under a sale by order of the court for the bdnefit of the vendee. •
:Wheie the vendor is indebted to the vendee, and the sale is made in
order to pay the debt, the vendoi must pay interest from the time
the debt is liquidated until he makes a good title, and the vendee
is accountable for the rents and profits from the time the, title ig
perfected'until the contract is specifically performed.

THESE causes were appeals from the chancery sid.

of the circuit court of the 4istrict of Columbia for
the county of Alexandria. The facts are stated in.
the opiniori of the court, and the controversy isthe

180

CASES IN

'H

SUPREME COURT

same as in the suits between the same parties reported
in 1 Cranch, 321., and 5 Cranch 262.
Hitpbu rn &
DuIo a
The causes were argued by Taylor and Swann#.
1816.

Dunlop &
Co.

for'Hepburn & Dundas, and by Jones and Lee, for
Dunlop & Company.

March 9th.

J., delivered the opinion of the court.
These causes come before the court upon appeals
from the circuit court of the district of Coh'mbia,
for the county, of Alexandria. The material facts
upon which the questions now to be decided arise,
are as follows:
Hepburn & Dundas being indebted to Jolhm Dunlop Si Co., of Great Britain, on account of certain
mercantile dealings which had taken place between
those parties, the precise amount whereof was. disputed, an agreement in writing was entered into on
the 27th of September, 1799, between the said
Hepbury' & Duftdas, and Colin Auld, the attorney
in fact of John Dunlop & Co.; whereby it was stipulated that the parties mutually agreed to submit
all matters in dispute, respecting the demand of
Dunlop & Co., to certain -arbitrators named in the
agreement, whose award should be made on or before the 1st day of January following. That Auld,
as the agent of Dunlop & Co., would, on the next
WASHINGTON,

day, to wit, the 2d day of January, 1800, accept,
from Hepburn & Dundas, the sum which should be
awarded fo Dunlop & Co., in bills of exchange, or in
Virginia currency, at the par of exchafnge; and uponl
such payment being made in either way, that Aud
wodild give to Hepburn & Dundas a full receipt and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

discharge of all the claims and demands of Dunlop I816.
& Co. against them.; that, in case Hepburn & Dun- HepburnA
das should not, on the said 2d day of January,.pay 'undas
the amount of the said award, either in bills of ex- Dunlop &

change or money, they should, oin that day,,.-assign to
Auld, as attorney of Dunlop, & Co., in the fullest
inanner, a contract entered into in the.year 1796, by
Hepburn & Dndas, with a certain William Giahanm,
for the sale of 6,000 acres of land lying on the river
Ohio, for the recovery of ivhich, on account of the
non-paym.nt of the purchase money by Graham,
Hepburn &Dundas had brought an ejectment, which
was then depeiding; that this assignment should be
accompanied by a-power of attorney irrevocable, to
enable the said Auld to pursue all legal means to
rebover the possession of the land, or to enforce the
payment of 18,000 dollars, the amount of the purchase money, whichever of these measures Auld
might prefer. Hepburn & Dundas farther stipulated not- to interfere with the measures which Auld
might choose to pursue for the recovery of the land
or the purchase money, and, farther, that whenever
any.suit brought, or to be brought, for the .land,
should be judicially deftermined, or otherwise settldd,
by an amicable compromise, Hepburn & Dundas
would convey the same to the person who, by such
determination or compromise, should be acknowledged to be entitl ed to it in the manner expressed
in the contract with Graham. -It was also stipulated,
that if the purchase money for the said land, with
interest thereon to the 2d of January, 1800, should
be insufficient to discharge the sum which might be

C;

1.82
1816.
Hshould,
Hepburn &
Dundas
Dunlop &
Co.

CASES IN THE SUPREAE COURT

awarded to Dunlop & Co., Hepburn & Dundas
on that day, pay to Aul'd as much money as
should make up the deficiency; and if, on the other
band, the said purchase money and interest should
fall short of the sum awarded, that Auld would, on
the same day, pay to Hepburn & Dundas the excess
over and above the sum awarded. Lastly, it was
stipulafed, that if Auld should recover the land, and
be enabled to sell the same for more than was allowed to Hepburn & Dundas, by the said 'agreement,
together with the costs and expenses attending the
recovery, Auld should pay to Hepburn &. Dundas
the expenses incurred in prosecuting the suit commenced by them for the recovery of this land. In
pursuance of these articles, an award was made by
the day mentioned in the submission, which award
stated, that the sum of 4,379L. 9s. 0'd, sterling,
including interest, would be due to Dunlop & Co.
This sum
on the 1st day of January, 1800.
fell short of the purchase money and interest, due
by Grahiam to the same period, the sum of 494l. 6s.
8d., Virginia currency. Hepburn & Dundas having
prepared a deed of assignment of Graham's contract,
and a power of lattorney, as stipul.ated in the abovementioned agreement, offered to deliver the same tq
Auld on the 2d of January, 1800, which he refused
to accept, because the deed recited, as a part ot the
consideration, that a release 'had 'been executed by
Auld, of all thie claims and demands whatsoever of
Dunlop & Co. against Hepburn & Duridas, and because, as is asserted by Auld, Hepburn & Dundas
required Auld to execute such a release prior to the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.delivery of th e deed of assignment. The suit of

1816.

against Graham, for the reco- Hepburn&
Hepburn & Dundas
•
very of the 6,000 acres of land, 'was prosecuted Dundas,
V.
against his heirs; and in May, 1801, by a compro- Dunlop &
aise between Hepburn & Dundas,' and the .defend- .
ants in the ejectment; judgmeni was.rendered in favour of Hepburn & Dundas.
Without noticing, particularly, the conduct ofth'ose
parties subsequent to the transactions of the 2d of
January, 1800, as well as on that day, it miay be sufficient to say, that if. the tender made by Hepburn &
Dundas was, upon the condition asserted by Auld, to
have been annexed, to it, and if in consequence
thereof, any -legal advantage accrued to him, itwas
waived by. his subsequent conduct, As 'laie as
Pebruary, 1807, Auld made a tender of the difference between, the sum awarded to Dunlop & Co.'and the purchase money and interest due upon Grahani's contract, -and demanded a deed; but this dewand was made in a manner, and under circumstances, which this court, upon a former occasion,
deemed unreasonable.
Things remained in this situation, until some time.
about April, 1801, when Hepburh & Dundas instituted a suit at law against Add, f6r the difference.
between the sum awarded to Dunlop & Co. and the
amount of the purchase money and interest .due by
Graham's contract, on thb 2d of Jan~ary, 1800.
About the same time a suit at law'was commenced
by Auld, against Hepburn & Dundas, upon the
agreement of the 27th, of September,. 1799, to reIn he first case,
cover the whole -un award..

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.

this court, upon a writ of error, decided upon the

(which were so drawn as to present the
point,) that Hepburn and Dundas had no right
to demand of Auld a release of all clai ms and
demands against Dunlop & Co., to be executed as a
precedent act to the assignment of Graham's contract, and the delivery of the power of attorney;
and, on that ground, judgment was rendered against
Hepburn & Dundas.o
In the other case, the pleadings presented the
question, whether the recital of such a release in the
dedd of assignment offered to be delivered by Hepburn & Dundas, invalidated the tender? Upon a writ
of error, it was decided, by this court, that.the recital of the release could not impair the rights of Dunlop & Co., under the agreeqrent of September, 1799,
and that it formed no objection to the assignment;
consequently, that the tender and refusal amounted
to a performance, ihlike manner as if Auld had accepted the 'assignment; but trat Hepburn & Dundas would still be obliged to execute a proper deed
of assignment, and a conveyance of the land, whenever they shotild be required to do so. Judgment
was, accordingly, rendered in this suit against Auld.'
Hepburn & Dundas having been thus. defe.ated in
their attempt at law, to enforce a performance of the
agreement, filed a bill in equity, praying for a specific performance. The answer of Auld contained,
amongst other objections to a specific performance,
an allegation that the title of Hepburn & Dundas

Spleadings,
IiDburda&s

D1
Co.

a I Cranch. ,321.

h. 5 Crtnch!, 262:

OF THE UNITED STATES.

185

1816.
to the land was defective. Hepbfirn & Dundas then
set T6rth their title in a supplemental bill. - Th§ suit ,,.'-,
Hepburn &
came 6n to be heard; upon an appeal to this 6ourt, at Dundas
the sam6 time that Audd's sdit at law against Hep- 1)unp ,
co.
'burn;& Dundas, above' mentioned, .wEs decided.

This court determined, 1st. That 'since Auld had,
by his "conduct -subsequent to the 2d of- January,
1800, waived all objections to the tender of the assignment of Graham's contract on that day, and did
not refuse to receive a conveyance which was offered
to be made by H~pburn & Dundas, in, June, 1801,
,on account of any defect in the title, but for other
reasons which-would equally have dporated with him
had there been no such defect, Hepburn -& Dunaa*s. wbuld till be entitled to a. specific psrfprmance
if tley cduld theh make a good title. 2dly. That the .
title appeared by the bills to be defective as. to 20.
acres, being Thomas West's part of Mrs. Bronaugh's
1,000 acrds, and also his part of Fran'cina Turner',
interest in the same tract, and aso. on account of
the failure'-to record Thomas West's deedto Hepburn & Dundas for 1,000 acres. For these defects
in the title; the bill was dismissed.c.
Presuming that this' decree, which seemed to close
for -ever the doors of a.co'urt of equjity. ggainst Hepburn & Dundas, opened them to Dunlop & Co. to get
rid ot the contract altogether, Auld filed the bill
which, is now under'consideration, stating, amonggt
o.ther things, the :previous and present inability of
Hepburn & Dundas, to make a good title to this
c 5 Cranch, 262.

VOL. .-

2A

186

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

land; and praying that the agreement may be set
aside, and the debt awarded to Dunlop & -Co., with
the interest thereon, to be decreed; or, that, if the
V.
3Dunldp & court should consider Dunlop & Co. under 'anobliCo. gation to accept of the land; that only the reasonable
value of the land at the time when Hepburn & Dundas's title to it was perjected, should be allowed.
The bill, also, contains the general prayer for such
relief as is consistent with equity.
Hepburn & Dundas seem to have given a very different constructiofi to the above decree, and supposing that if, within a raasonable time after it was pronounced, they could remove the objections to their
title which were pointed out in the decree, they might
still call for a specific performance, they soon obtained a conveyance from the heirs of Thomag West,
of all th,;ir' right, title, and interest in and to this land,
and on "the 27th of March, 1809, less than a month
after the decree of dismission by this court, they
offered to con-vey to Auld a good and sufficient title.
This offer being refused, Hepburn & Dundas'filed a
bill against Colin Auld, as attorney of Dunlop & Co.,
setting forth their ability and readiness to convey
an unexceptionable title to this land, and praying that
Auld, or Dunlop & Co., might be compelled to accept
of a conveyance, and to pay the difference between
the agreed value of the land and the sum awarded.
These suits came on to be heaid at the same time.
In the suit brought by Dunlop & Co., against Hepburn & Dndas, it was decreed by the court below
that Hepburn and the heirs of Dundas should pay
t(, Dunlop & Co., or their agent, the sum of 33,060
dollarb 37 cents, being the amount of the sum award1816.

H
Hepburn
Dundas

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ed, with-interest thereon, at five per cent., from the
1st January, 1800, till the time of rendering the de•
•cree; but that the .sum of 21,112 dollars, part thereof, might be discharged by a conveyance, withiri a
certain time, of the above land to Auld in trust for
Dunlop & Co. From this decree an appeal was
prayed by both parties.
In the other suit, brought by Hepburn & Dundas
against Auld' a decree was made, that upon the
complainant's paying to Auld, as attorney of Dunlop
&-Co., the sum of 11,966 dollars 37 cents, and conveying-to the said Auld, in trust for Dunlop & Co.,
on or before a certain day, the above-mentioned land,
the said Auld, as attorney of -said Dunlop & Co.,
should execute and deliver to Hepburn & Dundas
duch. a receipt and discharge of all- the claims and
demands of Dunlbp & Co. against them as the court
might approve. From this decree both sides agaipappealed.
Against so much of these decrees as compel Auld
to accept of a conveyance in trust for Dunlop &Co.q
in part discharge of the debt decreed to be'paid by
Hepburn & Dunda's to Dunlop & Co., the following
-objection -haiVe -been made, and are now to be considered.
1st., That Hepburn & Dundas were guilty of a
fraudulent misrepresentation of the value of this
land; and, also, of a wilfihl concealment of the defects
in the title, whereby Auld was induced to enter into
the agreement of September, 1799.
2d. A want of authority in Colin Auld to enter into
an agreement for taking a conveyance of land in
discharge of the debt due tb Dunlop & Co.

1816.
Hepburn,&

Dunaas
Dunlop &

Co

188

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

3d. The refusal of Hepburn & Dundas to assigg
Grahams
contract, on the 2d of January, 1800, ex]Iepbtun &
Thundas
cept upon a conditron which, they had no right to
V.
Dunlop & exact, and their interference in the suit with GraCo.
ham's heirs, and the compromise maie with them,
whereby (it is contended) they disabled, themselves
from executing the agreement of September, 1799.
4th. That the title to the land is yet defective.
5th. That the former decree, dismissing Hepburn
& Dundas's bill for a specific performance, is a perpetual bar to the relief sought by their present bill.
6th. That Dunlop & Co. being aliens, and incapable of holding lands Jn Virginia, a court of equity
will not compel them to execute their agreement,
even if Hepburn & Dundas had been always in a
condition to perform it on their part.
1. The first objection appears to be unsupported,
by the evidence. In respect to the value of the land,
the representations made of it in the letters of lepburn & Dundas to Dunlop & Co., and to Colin Auld,
affirm no fact which is proved io be untrue. Those
letters contain expressions of the opinion of Hepburn & Dundas, that the land was an ample security
for the debt due to Dunlop & Co.; and it must be admitted, that in their letter to Colin Auld of tl~e 6th
of September, 1799, they seem to have indulged
themselves in very extravagant notions of its value.
lBut it is to be remarked that the grounds of this
calculation are fairly stated in the letter, and an opportunity is afforded to Auld to inquire into them
and to judge for himself: besides which, it should
be recullkcted that Auld having agreed, in his letter
1816.

'lu

OF THE UNITED STATES.

uf the 4th of: September, two days before the date
1816.
of this letter, to stibmit to the award of arbitrators,- Hepburn.&
and to receive an assignment of Graham's contract Dundas
at. the stipulated sum to be paid by Graham,'Hep- D.lop &
Co.
burn & Dundas could have had no motive, at that
time, to make. an untrue representation of the value
*of the land. At no antecedent period does it appear
that they had made an uncandid statement, upon
this subject, to Dunlop & Co., or to Auld. Their
opinion of the real value of the property might be
incorrect; but a mistaken opinion of.the value of
the property, if honestly enteitained, and stated as
opinion merely, unaccompanied by an assertion, or
statement, untrue in fact, can never be considered as
a fraudulent misrepresentation. That Hel'burrt.&
Dundas intended no deception, is. evident from the
folloving considerations: *1. That the offer made by
them, to Colin Auld, of this land, was that of a se-.
curity only, for the debt due to Dunlop & Cb., which
was-declined by Auld, upon the groun'd, that if payment of the debt to Dunlop & Co. wds to'be -postponed until the suit with Graham should be conA
cluded, Dunlop & Co. ought to be entitled to all the
benefit of the contract with Graham, and for this
reason, a proposition was made by hiim to accept an
assignment of that contract, and to pay the difference
between the purchase money and interest thereon,
and the sum which might be awarded,. in case the
latter should fall short of the former. 2. That
Hepburn & Duhdas had, in the year 1796, sold this
land to Graham for the sum at which Auld agreed
iotake it, and.as evidence of their opinion, that the

190

CASES N THE SUPREME COURT

Hepbu~rn &
Dundas

land had., since that sale, risen in value, they. had jhstituted a suit at law against Graham in order to
avoid the sale, and to recover back, the land. It aily

-Dunlop &

farther answer to this-objection be necessary, it may

1816.
'

Co.

be sufficient to add, that the fraud now charged
against Hepburn & Dundas was not thought of, and
certainly not imputed to them, when the former suit
of Hepburn & Dundas, for a specific, performance,
was depending.
As to the'alleged concealment by Hepburn &
Dundas of defects in their title, there is every reason to believe that they were unknown to them until
some time in the year 1805, when they endeavoured
to remove them, and supposed they had done so.
The only objection suggested by the special verdict in
the ejectment, was the want, of a partition deed between, the original grantees of this land, which objection-othis court has declared to be. insufficient to
bar Hepburn & Dundas from asking for a specific
performance of the agreement.
2. The next objection to the decree below is, that
Auld had no authority, in virtue of the power of attorney from Dunlop & Co., to enter into an agreement to receive land in discharge of the debt due by
Hepburn & Dundas.
This, like the former, is a new objection, not
thought of, or argued, as a reason against a specific
performance in the former suit. It is unnecessary
to' examine, with critical nicety, the import of the
expressions. used in the power of attorney to Auld.
He was empowered to sue for, and to compound and
agree, for, all debts due to Dut4lop &.Co., and, .in.
-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

general, to do all other lawful acts- needful for those
purposes, as fully as Dunlop & Co. could do. Under

1816.
Hepburn&

this authority, he entered inio the agreement with Dundas
V.
Hepburn & Dundas, which, there is no reason to Dunlop &
doubt, he communicated in due time to his constiCo.
tuents, and it is perfectly fair to consider their acquiescence in that agteement as amounting to a ratification of it. It would. be -most inequitable to

permit Dunlop & Co., at the distance of many years
after this agreement was made, to .controvert the
authority of their agent, and to say they are not
bound to perform. it, although it must be admitted

that, during all that time, it was" in their power to
enforce it against Hepburn & Dundas, had it been
their wish or interest to do so.
3. The third objection to the decrees below, is the
refusal of Hepburn &Dundas to assign Graham's contract on the 2d January, 1800,except upon a condition
which he had no right to exact, and their interference
in the -suit with Graham's heirs, and the compromise
made with them. In ahswer to the differeift parts of
this objection, it might be sufficient to remark, that
they were urged by Colin Auld in his answe to Hepburn & Dundas's former bill; that they were considered by thi court, and decided to be insufficient to
deprive Hepburi & Dundas of the relief prayed
for. However true the allegation may be, that Hepburn & Dundas refused, to assign Graham's contract,
and to deliver the power of attorney to Auld on the
2d of January, 1800, unless Auld would'first execute a release of allclaims and demands of Dunlop
& Co. against Hepblrn & Dundas, yet the subse-

192

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

quent conduct of Auld amounted to a waiver of all
- .objections on that account: his, and his counsel's,
Hepburn &
Dundas
letters to Edward Graham, ihwhich he was assertV. ed to be the assignee of the contract with Graham
Dunlop &
CO.
his instructiofis to Cook to attend to the ejeetment,
and to get it brought to a speedy decision; his engaging counsel in that suit; and, -in
short, his whole
conduct throughout the year 1800, all tend to prove,
that the transaction of the 2d of January, 1800,'had
not, in any manner, impaired the rights of the parties under the agreement now alleged to have been
violated by Hepburn & Dundas.
As to the compromise said to have been made by
H11pburn & Dundas with the claimants under Graham, their conduct, upon that occasion, appears to
have been unexceptionable. That a judgnient against
those claimants, at an early day, was anxiously ddsired by -Auld, and the assistance of Hepburn &
Dundas, to effect that object, was expected and reqtired by him, is apparent, from the above letters
from him to Edward Graham, and from many other
factsproved in the former suit. The endeavours of.
Auld to hasten the decision of the ejecttnent, and to
obtain a judgment for the land, seem to have been
unremitting, until some time in December, 1800,
when he declined interfering any farther in the business ; but, neither then, nor at any subseqient period, did -he express to Hepburn & Dundas a disin-'
clination to obtain a judgment, nor did he forbid them
from proceeding to effect it. It is objected, under
this head, that Hepburn & Dundas, contrary to an
express stipulation in the agreement with Auld, re1816.

• -

OF THE UNITED STATES.

leased to the defendants in the ejectment the right
which, as trustee for Auld, they had to demand
mesne profits during the time that Hibpbtwn & Dundas had been out of possession of the land; and,
f&rther, that they consented to permit Those defendants to retain possession of the premises for a year
after the judgment was rendered. Neither of these
"allegations are supported by the evidence in the
cause. The agreement made by Hepburn & Dundas with the heirs of Graham, in relation to the
costs of the uit and the mesne profits, disavows, in
the most explicit terms, all power iri them, and all
intention to release either of those claims, but stipulates to indemnify those defendants against these
claims, in case they should be made and enforced'by
Auld, who is declared to be alOne entitled, to make
them. This contract of indemnity, therefore, did
not amount to a release, nor did it impair the rights of
Dunlop & Co. under their agreement with Hepburn
& Dundas. As to the remainder of this objection,
it is founded altogether upon the deposition of Mr.
Sh.effey, the counsel for Gralham's heirs, which, as it
is explained by the same witness in'a suibsequent deposition, proves no more, than that such a propositi6n had been made by Edward Graham to Mr. Hepburn. That it was not accepted by him, is manifest
by the judgment itself, which is unconditional, as
well as by an agreement made between Hepburn &
Dundas and Edward Graham, the-day after thejudgment was entered.
4. The next objection is, that the title of Hep-.
VOL. .B

isic.
Hepburn &
Dunoas
Dunlop &

Co.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

116. "burn & Dundas to this land, or to some part thereo!.

still defective.
In the opinion given by this court, at February
& terin, 1809, in the suit brought by Hepburn & Dun-

Hepburn
Dounds &
Duflop

Co.

Sis

das, for a specific performance, the title was declared
to be unexceptionable except, 1st. As to 208 acres,
being the part of Sarah Bronaugh's 1,0P0 acres, to
which Thomas West was entitled as one of the heirs
of Mrs. Bronaugh, and of Francfna Turner, and,
2dly. As to 1,000 acres, the original share of Thomas West, which had been conveyed by hfim" to
Hepburn & Dundas by a deed which had not
These defects have since been
been recorded.
cured by a conveyance to Hepburn & Dundas by
the heirs of Thomas West, bearing date the 20th
of March, 1809, of all their title to the aforesaid parcels of land.
It is, nevertheless, contended, that this conveyance
is insufficient to pass a clear and undisputed title.;
inasmuch as the land may be bound by the claims
of creditors, or of purchasers subsequent to the deed.
from Thomas West to Hepburn & Dundas. The
answer given at the bar to these suggestiobs is en-,
tirely satisfactory to the court. If the land be exposed to the claims of subsequent purchasers or
mortgagees under West, to be effectual against
Hepburn & Dundas, the deeds must have been recorded within eight months after the death of West.
at the latest period, either in the. general court, or
in the district.or county court where the land lies.
Had any such. deeds been so recorded, it was in the
power of Auld to have proved the fact by the re-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

195

-cords of some one of those courts, and the want of 18W.
such proof destroys all presumption that apy such Hepbtlrn&
conveyances .were. nade.
Dudnas
V_&"
be
must
too
they
West,
against
As to'judgments
• .
• Dulop
of record; and, after a -lapse-of 10 years sinie.'hi's
o.
death, the cQurt cannot presume the existejice .of
such judgments. As to specialties in whicli--'he
heir, of West are bound, if there be such, which is
not proved, they cannot -affect this land in the hands
of a bonafde puichaser under those heirs.
5. The- next objection made to the decrees below, is, that the dismission of the -former bill of Hepburn & Dundas, for. a specific -performance, is a bar
to their present bill for the same object.. This objection is well founded. If a bill, by .the vendor of
land, seeking a specific performance of the contract,
be dismissed on account of a defect in the title, .he
doors of a court of equity are, and ought to be, for
ever closed against him, notwithstanding he should,
afterwards, have it in his power. fo make a good
title; unless, perhaps, in a case where an original
bill, in the nature of a bill of review, might be entertained. But the present bill is not founded upon
new matter, discovered since the *hearing of the
former cause, and which it -was not in the power of
Hepburn & Dundas to produce at that time. It is

not pretended that he was ignorant who were the
henis of Thomas West, or that he could not as wellhave procured-a deed from them before, asafter the
former decree. His ignorance was not of a matter of
fact, but of law. He erroneously supposed that his
title wais good, and on adcount of the defe.cts existipg

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
"
Hep;iurn &
Dundas
V.
Dupiop &
Co.

in it, at the time of the decree, his bill was dismissed.
The rule of the court of equity to decree a specific
performance, if the vepdor is able to make a good
title before the decree is pronounced, is an indulgence which lie is not en.titled to by the terms of his
contract. A majority of this court approves of the
rule as a general une, but is not disposed to extend
it as such. If, in a case peculiarly circumstanced, an
extension of the time for completing the title would
be proposed, and should be intended to be granted,
the court would either continue the cause, in order
to give the vendor time to perfect his title, or would
dismiss the bill withQut prejudice.
The questions, then, which remain to be decided,
are, 1st. Whether Dunlop & Co. are entitled to the
relief for which they specifically prayed ? and if not,
then, 2dly. Are they entitled to any other, and what
relief, under the general prayer in their -bill?
1st. ,Therelief specifically prayed for consists of
two parts, 1st. That the agreement of Septeniber,
1799, may be rescinded, and the sum awarded, with
interest, decreed to be paid. If this should be denied, and Dtnlop & Co.. be compelled to receive, a
conveyance of the land, then, 2dly. That the reasonable value only of the land at the time when the title
was p-rfected should be allowed.
As to the 1st. Most of the objections which have
been u'rged against the decree of the court below,
for a specific perfbrmance, were relied upon by the
counsel for Dunlop & Co., as sufficient to set aside
the contract. These have already been considered,
and the result has been shown -to be, that, if the bill

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of Hepburn & Dundas, for a specific performance,
1816.
were unaffected by the dismission of their former Hepburn
&
bill, none of these objections would be sufficient to Dundas
preclude them from the relief sought by their pre- Dunlop ,
Co.
sent bill. 'If so, they are insufficient to enable Dunlop & Co. to obtain a decree to rescind the contract.
There are many cases in which a court of equity,
although it would not decree a specific perfrrmance,
will yei refuse to order a contract to be cancelled.
The inability of the vendor to make a good title at.
the time the decree is- to be pronounced, furnishes a
very good reason for excluding him from relief in a
court of equity; and yet it does not follow that the
court will, for this reason merely, set aside the .contract. Generally speaking, a court of law is competent to afford an adequate remedy to either party,
for a breach of the contract by the other, from whatever cause it may have proceeded; and whenever
this is the case, a resort to a court of equity is im'proper.
But if the contract ought not, in conscience, to
bind one of the parties, as if he had acted under a
mist.ke, or was imposed 1ipon by the other party,
or the like,, a court of equity will interpose and afford a relief, which a court of common law cannot,
by. setting.aside the contract; and having thus obtained jurisdiction of the principal question, that
court will proceed to make such other decree a4 the
justice and equity of the case may require. Whether
inability in the vendor to make a title, is, of itself,
unattended by some peculiar circumstances of hard:'
ship, sufficient to justify the court in..setting aside

198

CASES IN THE SUPREMEt COURT

the contract, need not now be decided.

1816.
"

Hepburn &:

Dundas
V.
l&
Co.

This is cer-

tainly not a case where the exercise of this branch

of equity jurisdiction can be fairly 'demanded' by
Dunlop & Co. Within a month after the recovery
of the judgment 'against the heirs of Graham, Hep-

burn &Dundas tendered to Colin Auld a conveyance
of the land, which was refused, not on account of
any defect in the title, but for reasons 'which would
equally have operated with, him had there been' noc
such defect." Immediately after the defects in the
title were pointed out by this court, they were remo.ed, and the conveyance of an unexceptionable
title was tendered and refused. Had Hepburn &
Dundas been in a condition to make such -a title a
month sooner, this court, instead of dismissing their
bill, would have decreed a specific performance.
Under such circumstances it would be inequitable to
set aside the contract. The alienage of the com-.
plainarts is urged as an additional reason for setting
aside this conti'act. Although the incapacity of the
purchaser to hold land might afford a reason fr dernying a specific performance upon the prayer of
Hepburn & Dundas, (a point, however, not intended
to be decided,) it is certainly insufficient to entitle
the vendor, under the circumstances of this -case, to
a decree to rescind the contract. But the court
.does not -mean to intimate an opinion that the terms
of this contract did expose this land to the danger
which is apprehended.
It appears by the. contract, and the 'previous correspondence between these parties, that they contemplated a sale of- this land, in- the event of the con-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tract with Graham being rescinded, and that the
proceeds thereof should, be paid over to Auld, in
discharge of so much of the debt due by Hepburn
& Dundas to Dunlop-& Co., as the purchase money
due by Graham, yith interest thereon to.the 1st bf
January, 1800, .ivould amount t6; and this whether
the land should sell for more or less than that sum.
In this view of the case, the land was considered as
a security for a stipulated sum, and Hepburn & Dundas were constituted trustees for whoever might becom the purchasers of it. A conveyance to Aiuld
or to Dunlop & Co. does not *appear to have been
contemplated. But if, in point of law, it should be
truethat Auld,, by Pegledting. to proceed. agpinst
Graham's representatives for the recbvery 'of the
land, in the name of Hepburn & Dundas, separated
the interests of his constituents, this.cansurelyaffor1
n6 souna reason for setting aside the contract.

It is

sufficient if Hepburn. & Dundas are able and ready
to make a conveyance when they shall be required
'to do so.

2d. The other specific relief prayed for, is, tha.t
Hepburn & Dundas m'ay be credited on accountof
the land. for no more than its real value iin March,
1809, when a conyeyance was tendered and refused.
A decree of this sort would be an anomaly in the
jurisprudence of a court of equity.' It would be an
affectation of decreeing a-specific performance contrary to the terms of the contract upon which' the
decree is to ophrate. It would be, in fact, to make
a cohtract for the parties alto,ether different from
what they had made for themselves, and het to de-

1816.
Hepburn &
Dundas
Dunlop &

Co.

.200

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

cree an execution of it. There is no precedent, and
r
p o
certainln
iy no princip*e of equity to sanction such, a
Hepburn &
decree. Either the contract of the parties must be
Dundas
V.
Dunlop & executed according to the terms of it, or it cannot
Co.
be executed at all.
1816.

The only remaining question, then, is, whether.
under the general prafyer, the court can grant any,
and what relief?
There can be no question but that it is competent
to Dunlop & Co., to ask for a specific performance
of the agreement, so far as it can now be performed,
,altiough the court cannot, listen to a similar prayer
from Hepburn & Dundas. But this is not the relief
specifically stated in this bill; and it is supposed to
be unreasonable to compel a specific peribrmance
under the general prayer for relief, in opposition to
the specific prayer that the contract may be set aside.
To this objection,- it may well be answered, that
if it be improper' to rescind, or to modii4, the contract, nothing remains to be done, under the gefieral
prayer, but to dismiss the bill, or to decree an execution of the contract. But. as the former cannot
be presumed to be the object of the general prayer,
it would seem to follow -that an execution of the
contract was intended to be asked for,. in case the
specific relief should be denied.
For these reasons the court will decree a specific
performance, so far as it is practicable, and considering Hepburn & Dundas as trustees for the perbon
or persons to whom this land may be iold. t.he conveyance will be decreed to be made to such persons

OF THE UNITED STATES.

as may become the purchasers of the land under- the
decree of this court.
The residue of the decree below, whih allows to
the complainants, Dunlop & Co., interest upon the
sum awarded from the 1st of January,'1 800, to the
time of the decree, is objected to by Hepburn &
Dundas, upon the ground that the purchaser of land,
to whom neither a conveyance has been made, or
possession delivered, is to be considered in equity as
the owner, and, of course, entitled to the rents and
profits; and that the right of the vendor to the purchase money draws after it a correspondent right to
demand interest upon the same until it is paid. This,
it must be acknowledged, is the general principle
which prevails in the courts of equity.
But it would seem to be inequitable to apply it
to a case like the present. Here the purchase
money was in the hands of the vendor at the time
the contract was made. It consisted of a debt due
by the Vendor to the purchaser, which the former
bound himself, by. his agreement, to discharge by
bills of exchange or cash, or by an assignment of a
contract for land, bnd a conveyance of a good title
to it, and with money to make up any deficiency
which might arise Tby the agreed price of the land
falling short of the debt. Neither bills nor cash
were paid, nor was the contract assigned, or a con.
veyance made, for it turned out ihat the vendor
could not make a good title to the whole of the land
until March, 1809. They have always retained possessibn, and the land :is, in reality, unproductive of
profits in any measure. eq ual to the. interest on the
VOL.. .2

C

201
1816.
H-epburn

Dundas
V.
Dunlop &

Co.

202

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

debt. This debt unquestionably bore interest from
moment it was ascertained and agreed. to b'e
Dundas
paid; and not having been paid, nor a tender of a
V.
Dunrop & good title to the land made, until March, 1809, it
0. -would be highly unjust to stop interest on the debt,
!lntil that period.
The written arguments of the counsel, whch have
been sent-to the court, present two questions in re,
lation to interest, which remain to be noticed. It is
contended, "by the counsel for Dunlop & Co., that
interest ought to"be calculated upon the sum composed of principal ann interest, stated, by the arbiirators, t6 be due on the 1st of Jauuary, I800, at tht
rate of 6 per cent. per annum, from that day. On
the other side it is insisted that no more thAn 5 per
cent. per annum should be allowed, and this not oq
the sur found by the arbitrators to bd due, but
upon the principal sum only.
9The court is of opipion, that, although the award
.does iot direct the. sum which is found to be due.
by Hepbuin & Dundas to be paid to Dunlop & -Co.,
yet it ascertains the sum which was due on the
1st of January, 1800, and the agreement upon
whidh the submission was mgade bound Hepburn &
Dundas to pay that Sum when it should be so ascertained.
Tl two, mnstrumefts, taken together,
awfount to a contract .oWpay a specific sum, and are,
c9early \Within the wo;.as, as well as the fair interpretation of the law of Virginia, passed in the year
1796, which fifed the rate of interest at.6 per cent.
per annum.. This principle b-cing settled, it follows
that the inter6st must be calculated upon the sum
1s1.

'"
'"the
Hlepburn &

OF THE fINITED) STATES.

203

asdertained by the award to. be due on the istof 1816.
January, 1810.- To separate the principal from the
Hepburn
.interest, even if the award furnished materials for Dundas
V.
such an operation, would be, in effect, to set'aside Dunlop
C. &
the award, and to vary te agreement with which it
is,intimately connected.
It is therefore the opinion of the court, that Hepburn & Dundas ought to pay interest upon the sum
awarded by the arbitrators, after the rate of 6 per
cent. per annum, from the 1st of January, 1800, to
the 27th of March, 1809, when they we-re Able. to
make, and did in fact tender, a good and sufficient
conveyance to the agent of Dunlop & Co. From
the 27.th of March, 1809, interest ought to stop; but
Hepburn & Dunda ought to account with Dunlop
& Co., for the -rents and profits of the 6,000 acres of
land from that period to the time of tendering this
decree,'.
dIn the.progress of society the
defects of the common law to
answer the.exigeicies of a civilized and commercial age became
mandifest. It was particularly in
not furnishing an adequate remedy for the -breach of contracts;
where the spirit of the agreement
vequired a specific performance,
that these defects were disclosed.
For, except in real actions and
ejectment, where the prceedings
are in rem, and the actions of detinue and replevin, where the
thing sued for is specifically recovered a court of common law
uniformly gives a compensatibn
in money fir civil injuries, whether

arising ex contractu or ex defictu.
This remedy is frequently insufi-

cient to repair the- injury sus.
tained by the parties, and to place

them in the sapne situation they
were in before the breach of the

contract. Hence the origin of thAt
jurisdiction, which, although it was
long contested*by the courts of
common law, has at lingth. been
firnmly established, and matureq
into a regular system. This system is, hoivever, remarkably subject to -6e exercise of discretior
accordingto the peculiar circumstances of each particular case.

But few inflexible rules can therefore be laid down concerning iti

.

204

CASES IN THE SYJPREM CORT

1816.
Hepburn &
Dundas
V.

Dunl p &
Ce.

J

DECREE.--These causes came on to be heard this
8th day of February, 1816, on the transcript of the,
Among those admitting of the
fewest exceptions are the following :-st.
This equitable jurisdiction extends to all cases where
either the res in dispute, or thq
party, is within the jurisdiction of
the court; for it proceeds- in
personam as well as in rem, and
wherever the laht or other thing
in controversy is not within its
reach, it will compel the specific
performance of an agreement by
means of its appropriate process
acting on the parties. I Ves. 447.
454.-:2d. A specific performance
will not- be decreed of an agaeeMent whercopon" damages could
not be recoveredat law. But if
an action at law cannot be maintained on account of a mere formal
defect of the instrument, the
Pgreement 1will be enforced in
equity. I Fee. 256. 1 P. Will.243.
And thtere are also several other
cases of exceptions to this general
rule, where, although the agreement was void at law, a specific
performance has been decreed,
there being a clear ground for the
interference of equity, according
to the general' rules of the court.
2 Eq. Cas. Abr. 32. pl. 43. 2 Fern,
480. 2 P. Will. 243: 2 Fern.24.3 P. Will. 187.-2d. A specific
performance will not be decreed
where .the parties have. an adequate remedy at law. 8 Ve. jan.
163. Z Scoales , Leroy, 553.

And the couirt will exercise its
discretion, and leave the contract
at law, rather than compel a purchaser to take a doubtful title. I
Ves.jun. 565. 2 P. Will. 19R. 2
Ve8. 679. 1 Bro. C. C. 74. 4
JBro. C. C. 80. 4 Ver. jun. 97.
5 Ves. jun." 186.--4th. If the
vendor can make a good title at
the time the conveyance is to be
made under t6e decree of the
court, a specific perforniance will
be decreed. 0 P. Will. 630. 1
Atk. 12 "10 Ves. jun. 315. S
Cranch, 262. 8 Vet. jun. 655. 7
'es. jun. 202.-5th. In the construction of a contract, it is considered as executed from the time
of its being entered into, unless
some other time be stipulated for
its execution. And so powerful
is this rule, that by an equitable
fiction, it is held td alter the very
nature of things, to mifake land
money, and, on the contrary, to
make money land. Upon this
principle, land which is sold is cola-,
sidered in equity as the property of
the yendee from the making of,
the cohtract, and descendible and
devisable as such. 2 Fern. 536.
1 P..Will. 872. 3 P. Will 215. 7
Ves. jun. 29.-Oth. In decreeing
-the specific performance of an
agreement, time may be dispensed
with ifitbe not of the essence of the
contract. 1 Atk. 12. 2P. Will. 630.
SCranch,262. 7-es.jun.273. K,

OF THE UNITED STATES..

265

records, and 'were argued by counsel, whereupon,
1816.
it is decreed and ordered, tha the decree of theHepburn &
circuit court of the district of Columbia for the coun- Dunaas
V.
ty of Alexandria, in'the suit of William Hepburn and Dunlop
&
CO.
the heirs and executors of John Dundas against
Colin Add, agent and attorney in fact for John
Dunlop & Co., be reversed and annulled, .and this
court, proceeding to give such -decree as the said
circuit court ought to have given, it is further
ordered and decreed that the said bill be dismissed.
And it is firtiher decreed and ordered, that the.
decree in the suit of John Dunlop & Co.
against William Hepburn and the heirs and executors of John Dundas be reyersed, each party paying his own costs in this court. And this court, proceeding to give such decree in the said suit as the
said circuit court ought to have given, it is decreed
and ordered that the defendants, William Hepburn
and the executors and executrix of John Dundas, do,
on or before the first day of April next, pay to the
complainants, John Dunlop & Co. or to their
agent or attorney, duly authorized to receive the
Ves. jun. 326. 4 Bro. C. C. 329. 1

cifically enrorced. And the morali-

Ves. 450. But where there has

ty of a court of equity, if the ex-

I een gross laches on the part of

pression may be ullowed, id even
the plaintifr, a bill.for specific per- more strict than that of a court of

formance will be dismissed. 5 Ves.
jun. 145.736. 81.8. 4 Ves. jun. 667.
686. 1 Bro. P. C. 27. 2 Eq. Cat

law in .this particular, for suppressio veri, as well as s-ggestiofals
is a ground for refusing to carry

.Abr. 686. pl. 5.-7th. r raud will

an agreement into effect.

3 .All.

vitiate a contract in equity as well 383. 2 .iUk. 271. 1 .Bro. C. C.
as at law, and consequently a frai-

440.

dulent agreement will not be spe- .192;

Imbl. 49'. 10 Ves. jun,

206
1816.
Hepbr

CASES IN THE SUPREM)E COURT

same, the sum of nine thousand .one hundred and

forty three dollars and seventy two cents, being the

difference between the sum of nineteen thousand fou'
Duwop & hundred and sixty-four dollars and twenty-four cents,
C-o.
the value in current money at the par of exchange
Dunaas

of the sterling debt stated in Athe award of William
Hartshorne, William Herbert, and William Hodgson,
to be. due by Hepburn & Dundas to 'John Dunlop,
with interest thereon after the rate of 6 per centunt
per annum from the first day of January, 1800, to the
27th of March, 1809, and twenty-one thousand one
hundred and 'twelve dollarsi the sum due upon
William Graham's contract on the 'first day of January, in; the year 1800.
It is farther decreed and ordered, that the 6,006
acres of land in the pro'ceedIngs mentioned, be sold
at public auction to the highest bidder, at such times,
in such proportions, and upon such terms as John
Dunlop & Co., or their agent or attorney in fact, may
direct, and that the proceeds of such sales, be paid
over to the said John Dunlop & Co., or their agent
or attorney as aforesaid; and upon such sale or sales
being made, it is decreed ahd ordered, that the said
William Hepburn, or his legal representatives, and
the legal representatives of John Dundas, deceased,
dol by good and sufficient- deed, or deeds, in law, to
be prepared at the expense of John Dunlop & Co.,
convey the aforesaid land to the purchaser or purchasers thereof, in fee simple, with a general warranty, and free from all incumbrances. And it is
farther ordered and decreed, that the sales of the
aforesaid land be made under tlhc superint'endance

OF THE UNITED STATFM.

207

1816.
of Colin Auld, the attorney in fact -f John Dunlop
& Co., or of such other person or persons as the" Hepburn,&
said circuit court may appoint, in case the said Colin Dudas

Auld should decline to serve, or the said circuit court Dunlop &
Co.
should see good cause to make such other appointment.
And it is farther ordered and decreed, that the
defendants,.William Hepburn and the executors and
executrix of John Dundas, deceased, do make up,
state, and settle, before a commissioner, or commissioners, to be appointed by the said circuit court, an
account of the rents and profits of the said 6,000
acres. of land since the 27th day of March, 1809,
and that they pay over the same to the complainants, John Dunlop & Co., or to their l.wful agent or
attorney.
And this cause is remanded to the said circuit
court for such proceedings to be had therein, for
carrying into execution the decree of this court in
the premises.e
Mr. J. LrVY730STON and Ajr. J. STORY, did nct sit in this causS.

