OF THE UNITED STATES.

preceding; and in the Mary Ford, decided at the
same term with that of the Grand Sachem. The
subject has frequently, since that term, been submitted to the consideration of this court, and the
decision has uniformly been, that it is a question exclusively proper for the courts of the capturino"
power.
Sentence affirmed.

(INSTANCE COJRT.)

Th Edwad.-ScOTT, Clamant.
In revenue, or'instance causes, the circuit court may,. upon appeal,
allow the introduction of a new allegation into the information, by
way of amendment.
Under the 3d section of the act of congress, of the 28th of June, 1809,
every vessel bound to a foreign permi~ted port, was obliged to give
a bond, with condition not to proceed to any port.wjth which commercial intercourse was not permitled, nor to trade with such
port.
Where the evidence is sufficient to show a breach of the law, but the
information is not sufficiently certain to authorize a decree, the
supreme court will remand the cause to the circuit court, with directions to all6w the information to be amended.

from the circuit court for the district of
Massachusetts. The offence charged in the infor•mation filed in this case, in t!le district court of Massachusetts, is, that the ship Edward, on the 12th dayof February 1810, departed from the port of Sa.
APPEAL

2961

1816.
The
eward.

269

CASES IN THE SU.PREME -COURT

1816.

vainab with a cargo, bound to a foreignport with
which commercial intercourse was not permnitted,
Fdward. without a clearance, and without giving a bond in
conformity with the provisions of the act of congress
of the 28th of June, 1809. A claim was-interposed
.by,
George Scott, of Savannah, in which he alleged,
that the ship did not depart from Savannah, bound
to a foreign port, in manfer and form as stated in
the information. The district court condemned the
ship; from which senteice an appeal was taken to
the circuit court, where the district attorney was
pemitted by the court to amend the information, by
filing a new allegation, that Liverpool, in Gi'eat Britain, was the foreign port to which the ship was
bound when she departed from Savannah, and that
she did so depart without having a clearance, agreeably to lMw. The circuit court affirmed the sentence, and the cause was brought before this court
upon an appeal.
ftarper, f&r the appellants and claimant. 1. The
object of the 3d section. of the act of the 2d of June,
1809, was to prevent the going to proiitedports..
When this supposed offence -was committed, there
were. no prohibited ports, and the legislature could
never mean. to attacl) the penalty to ports permitted
temporarily. If Liyerpool was not, at the time, a
prohibited port, and there were no other prohibited
.ports, the vessel was not obliged to give bond.. Before the voyage was undertaken, it h.d become impossible to commit the offence with which the vessel
is charged, 2. The information charges the vessol

OF THE UNITED STATES.'

2 3
46!

with going to,a forbidden port'-without-a clearance.
But.-Liverpool was not a forbidden port, and, therefore, the information cannot stand. 3. The allegation"was, that the ve9sel proceeded from Savannah;
but the proof was, that the voyage' was undertaken
from Charleston. The prosecltor could not lawfully prove a proceeding fiom any other port than
that aUege'd in the information.
-The fttorney-General and Law, for the resppndents argued, 1- That the laws, inder which the
supposed offence was cofamitted,, were' ih fdrce at
the time. [But as the argument is fully st'ated in the
opiiiioni of the.judges, it is-omitted hire.]. 2.mon law strictness is not. required in these lpr6?eed-#
ings, and it is ufireasonableto insist on the particular
foreign port being named. The p'osecutor had a
right to-prove a voyage from Charleston. It-has been
decided in this court, that it is sufficient if the offence
be laid in the words of 't.act. Even the rules of
the common law applicable to indictments do Aot require time .and place t6 be proved as- stated; arld
the only case where a variance is-falal is. Wheie it
affects the jurisdiction of the-court,- ag *heri' criminal pr6ceedings are required to be local.6- Ii no ease,
.in civil proceedings, doesthe common law cbnsidar
the verueuas matter" f substance, except where bbtli
the pr6ceedings, aie .in rem, and: th" effect of the
judgmient.could n6f be 6btained -it the'offence'were-.
laid in a wrong place. Th6 ciicuit court had a
a 2-Hawk. c. 25. a
C!wp. 128.

.5

c 23. 6, 88.-91. 2 AVTiA's
-

.79. 191'80.

1816.
The-

Edward.

264

CASES IN THE SU.VREME COURT

right to amend the proceedings, but the practice of

1816.
The-

~ this court is to remand the cause to the circuit court

Edward.
"qarch 15th.

with directions to amend.
J., delivered the opinion of the
court, and, after stating the facts, proceeded as follows :
Three questions have been made and discussed by
the counsel,. 1st. Whether the circuit court could,
upon the appeal, allow the introduction of a new
allegation into the information by way of amendmet? 2d. Whether the omission to give the bond
required by the 3d section of the act of thq 28th of
June, 1809, subjected the vessel to forfeiture ? and
if it did, then, 3d. Whether the information, vliich
alleges the voyage to Liverpool to have commenced
at Savannah, is supported by the evidence in the
cause, and whether the sentence below ought not to
be reversed for this reason, although the court should
be satisfied that the ship departed from Charleston
for Liverpool withont giving the bond required ?
Upon the first question it is contended, for the
claimant, that the circuit court has only appellate
jurisdiction in cases of this nature, and that to allow
the introduction of a new allegation, would be, in
fact, to originate the cause in the circuit court. This
question appears to be fully decided by the cases of
the Caroline and Emily, determined in this court.
These were informations in rem, under the slave trade
act, and the opinion of this court was',.that the evidence was sufficient to show a breach of the law;but that the iutaormations were not sufficiently cerWASHINGTON,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

ain ta. authorize a decree.

265

The sentence of the
1816.
circuktcourtnwas, therefore, reversed, and the cause
The
.remanded to that court, with directions to allow the Edward.
informations to be amended. But even if an amendment would be improper if it stated a different case
from that which was presented to the district court,
the objection would not apply to this case, in which
the offence, though more definitely laid in the second
allegation than it was in the first, is yet substantially
the same. In both of them the charge is, departing
from Savannah to a foreign interdicted port without
givingbond, and the amendment, in substance, merely
states the particular foreign port to which the vessel
-was destined. The next question is, whether the omission to give
the bond required by. the third section of the act of
the 28th of June, 1809, subjected the vessel to forfeiture? It is contended, by the claimant's counsel,
that after the end of dhe session of congress in which
this law passed, there were no foreign ports either
permitted or interdictedby law, inasmuch as the embargo laws which prohibited exportations from the
United States to foreign countries, would then stand
repealed, by force of the 19th sectior) of the act of
the 1st of March, 1809, to interdict the commercial
intercourse with Great Britain and France, and the
2d section .of the above act of the 28th of June.
That all the ports of the world being thus permitted
to the commerce of the United States, no subject
would remain on which the 3d section would operate; and, consequently, there could be no necessity
for giving a bond not to go to an interdicted port.
VOL. T.

2L '

266

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

An attentive co i'deration, however, of the two
above mentiod, wil show that the argument
•acts
The
Edward. is not well foundef. The 3d section ot the act of
the 28th of June, 1809, declares, that during the
continuance of that act, no vessel, not .within the exceptions therein stated, shall be permitted to depart
for a foreign port with which commercial intercourse
has not been, or may not be, permitted by virtue of
this act, or the act of the 1st of March, 1809. And
if bound to a foreign -port with which commercial
intercourse hasbeen, or may be, permitted, still she
shall not be allowed to depart without bond being
given, with condition not to proceed to any port with
which commercial intercourse is not thus permitted,
nor bo directly oi indirectly engaged, during the
voyage, in any trade with such port. This law"was'
in full force" at 4he time the offence charged in this
information is-alleged to have been committed.
"If,
then, there was any country with which commercial intercourse was interdicted, and would continue to be so after the end of the session, during
which this law was passed, it seems to be admitted
in the argument, that a vessel destined to a foreign
permitted port w6uld be liable to- forfeiture, unless
the above bond had been given. To ascertain whether there was any such country, it will be necessary
'to inquire what is the true meaning of the term com.mercdal interoourseP No higher or more satisCctory
authorily upon this subject need be resorted to :than
the legislhture itself, by which this act was passed.
The act of the 1st of March, 1809, which is entitled, "An act to interdict the commercial intercourse
1816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

.267

between the United States and Great Britain," &c.,
1816.
contains nineteen sections. The first ten (exclusive " The'
of the first, which denies to the vessels of those coun- .Fward.
tries the privilege of entering the poits and harbours
of the Uhited States) forbid, the. importation into
the United States of the products and manufactures
of Great Britain and France, oi of any other part of
the world, if brought from the ports of either of
those coUntries. The 12th section -repeals, ,after
the 15th of March, 1809, all the embargo laws, except as they relate to Great Britain and France;
and the 19th section repeats them, after the end of
the succeeding session of congress, as to all the
world. The 13,h, 14th, 15th, 16th, and 1.8th sections are intended to provide securities for enforcing
the inon-importation system established by this law;
and the 17th section repeals the former-non-importation law of April, 1806.
Hence, it appears, that the commercial intercourse
which this law was intended to 'interdict, consisted
of importations from Great Britain and France, and
of the products and manufactures of those countries,
and of exportatiqnp to them. In the 1Ith section it
is called the trade of the United States, suspended by
that act and the embargo laws, whicl trade the
president is 'authorized to renew, by his proclamation, upon a certain contingency, and in pursuance of
this power, he. did, accordingly, renew it with Great
Britain in April, 1809.
Thus stood the commercial intercourse of the
United States with foieign nations, a! the commencement of the extraordinary session of congress, whicl

68

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

commenced in May, 1809; permitted by the above
law, both as to exportations and importations with
Th~e
Edwara. all the world, except Great Britain and France, and
their dependendies; and, as to them, interdicted in
both respects as to France, and permitted with
Great Britain, by virtue of the president's proclimation. But, as the law of the ] st of March would
expire, by its own limitation, after the end of the
May session, whereby, not only exportations, but
the importations forbidden by that act, in relation to
France, would become lawful; the 1st section of
the act, of the 28th of June, 1809, revives the whole
non-importation system, except so far as it had been
permitted to Great Britian by the proclamation ;' and
the 2d section declares, in effect, that the embargo
laws, which were repealed by. the 12th and 19th
sections of the act of the. 1st of March, shall be and
remain repealed, notwithstanding the expiration of
that law by' its own limitation.
From this view of the subject, it appears, that the
non-importation system of the 1st of March was to
continue in force until the end df the session of congress, which would succeed that of May, 1809, except as to Great Britain.; and that, after the end of
that ession, the embargo laws would cease to operate against any nation.
If, then, importation be a branch of commercial
intercourse, in the avowed meaning of congress,
and if, on the 28th of June, and from thence until
the end of the next session of congress, it was to
continue in force, as to France, (unless the president
should declare, by proclamation, the revocation of
1810.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

her offensive edicts,) but were inoperative as to
Great Britain, it follows, inevitably, that, in February or March, 1810, when the offence is charged to
have been committed by this vessel, there were foreign ports permitted, and others interdicted, to the
commerce of the United States; and, consequently,
that the destination of this vessel being to Liverpool,
a bond ought to have been given, such as the 3d
section of the act of the 28th of June required, not
to go to an interdicted port.
This construction of the law has frequently been
given to it by this court: but the serious opposition
made to it, by the counsel for the claimant, ivill account for the deliberate examination of the question
which is contained in this opinion.
As to the last question, a majority of the court
being of opinion, upon a view of the whole evidence,
that the voyage to Liverpool had its inception at
Savannah, the objection as to the form of the information, in this respect, has nothing to stand upon.
Were the evidence, oh this point, m6re doubtful than
it is, the court would remand the cause, with directions to the circuit court to allow an amendment, by
inserting Charleston instead of Savannah, from which
the claimant could derive no benefit, since it is not
denied that the ship departed from Charlestondirectly for Liverpool, without giving bond.
J. This ship was proceeded against
under the 3d section of the act of the 28th of June,
1809, for sailing from the United States to a foreign
port with which commercial intercourse had not
LIVINGSTON,

269
1816.
The
Edward.

W0

1816.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

been, nor was then, permitted, by virtue of that act,
or of the act to interdict commercial intercourse beThe
Edward. tween the United States and Great Britain and
France, without a clearancei and without a bond
having been given, in confority to the provisions of
the said act, not to proceed to any port with which
commercial intercourse was not then, by law, p~rmitted, nor be directly or indirectly engaged, during the
voyage, in any trade or traflick ,with such place;The only'question, on this part of the case, is,
whether, at the time of the departure of the Edward
from Savannah, which was in February, 1810, there
existed any law subjecting her to forfeiture if the
owrier omitted giving the bond prescribed by. the 3d
section of the act above mentioned.
By the claimant, it is coittended, that after the end
of the session of congress, in which this act passed,
which occurred on the 28th of June, 1809, there
ceased to exist in the United States any distinction
between prohibited and permitted ports within the
meaning of the restrictive system; that the embargo
laws, which alone i'estricted exportations to foreign
countries, had, at that time, become repealed by the
operation of the'last section of the act of the 1st of
March, 1809, as well as by that of the 2d section of
the act of the 28th of June of the same year; that
by this repeal tle whole world, as far as could depend on our own laws, was open to the vessels of the
United States, and, consequently, that it could not
be illegal to neglect giving a -bond not to go to an
interdictedporif at the time of sailing, there was

OF THE UNITED STATES.

271

no port in the world to which that interdiction could 1816.
apply.
The
In examining this question, my attention will be Edwa'rd.
confined to a consideration of the two acts which
have just been mentioned; because, if the interdiction which is supposed to have existed when the
Edward left Savannah, is not to be found in either
of these laws, no other has been referred to as creating it. Let us, then, see what has been done, and
if there be no ambiguity in the provisions of these
two acts on the subject before us, it will be safer, in a
case so highly penal, to adhere to'the letter of them.
than to incur the danger of falling into error by indulging in a mode of interpretation which was adopted at the bar, and which was too-conjectural to be
in any degree satisfactory.
By the 12th section of the act of the 1st of
March, 1800, the embargo law was repealed as to
all nations, except Great Britain and France, and
their dependencies. This repeal, necessarily and
immediately, created a distinction between ports
with which commercial intercourse was permitted,
and those to which it was interdicted; and we accordingly find congress, in the very next section of
this act, providing .fot this new state of -things, by
requiring bonds'to be given when vessels were going
to ports which had now become -permitted ports,
not to proceed fo any port or place in 'Great Britain
or France, &c.' No such regulation had been prescribed in consequence merely of the non-importation law, and for the plainest reason; for, while
they prohibited an introduction into the United

272

States, from any part of the world, of the produce
tnd manufactures of France and England, our yesThe
EUrard. sels were allowed to go to those countries, and thus
continute a commercial intercourse with either or
both of them, limited, it is true, as to the articles
which might be brought from thence, but uncontrolled as to the commodities which might be carried
thither, or as to the port to which they might go.
This partial trade between the two countries, whether originating in the acts of th(, one government
or the other, may frequently take place; but cannot,
when it does, with any propriety, be termed an interdiction or suspension of commercial intercourse,
which, ex vi tcwrmin" rrM-rns an entire cessation, for
the time being, of alli trade whatever. It was under
the crtargo laws alone that intercourse was interdicted between this country and Great Britain and
France, as it was also with the rest of the world.;
which interdiction, as it arose out of those laws, so
it is expressly continued, as it regards those two
kingdong, ky excepting them out of the operation
of the 12th section of the act of the 1st of March,
1809, which repealed the embargo laws as to all
other parts, of the world. It would seem, then, that
after this, no other inquiry would remain than to ascertain whether the commercial intercourse thus interdicted by the act laying an embargo, and continued, or rather not repealed, as it respected.Great
Britain and France, by the 12th section just mentibned, was still in force at the time this offence is alleged to have been committed. Without leaving
the act how under consideration, we find that it was
181S.

,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES.

27'3

1816.
to continue in force only until the end of the next
session of congress, and that the act itself, which
The
lays the embargo, was to expire at the same time. Ed-ard.
This event took place on the 28th of June, 1809.
Now, unless some law were passed before that time
to continue the embargo longer, or, after that period,
to revive it,-how can it be said that, after that day,
a distinction could still continue between prohibited
and permitted ports? This brings us to see whether
any thing was done by congress at the extraordinary session which commenced in May, 1809. By an
act which they passed on tho0 28th of Juile of that
year, they continued in force until the 6nd of the
next session, which happene~d on the 1st of May.
1810, the 3d, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 1 th,
17th, and 18th sections of the act of March, 1809,
and they declare, that all the acts repealed by the
said act, shall remain repealed, notwithstanding ai y
part of that act might expire by its ow+n limitation.
Now, if we return to the sections which are revived,
we find them containing nothing more than an interdiction of the harbours and waters of the United
States to vessels sailing under the flag of Great Britain or Frances or owned by- subjects of either, accompanied with a prohlibitibn to import from any
foreign 1,ori whatever, into the United States, any
goods; &c., being of the growth, produce, or manufacture of those countries, or their dependencies. In

not one of them is found a prohibition to our citizens
against trading with either of those countries. Their
revival, then, does not operate so as to create a single intevdicted port in the whole commercial world.
Vl.. I,

2M

174
181I.

T
The

Edward.

CASES IN THE SUPREME .COURT

interdiction, as has already been said, was a
creature of, and owed its existence solely and exclusively to, the embargo laws. If it be said that such
prohibition necessarily flowed from the revival of
these sections, notwithstanding their entire silence
on the subject, then would our vessels have been under a disability of going to any part of the world,
because they were no more at liberty to bring Brit.ish and French goods from other coun'tries
than from
Great Britain and Fiance; and yet the 12th section
of this act, by only taking the embargo out of their
way, permitted them to go to any port of the world
except to Great Britain and France. But, in availing themselves of this' permission, they were still
under a restraint not to bring to this country any
British or French goods. The 11th.section of the
act of. March, 1809, which i§ continued by that of
June of the same year, authorizes the president, in
certain'cases, to issue his proclamation: 'after which,
the trade of the United States, swpended by'that act,
and by the embargo law, may be renewed with
Great Britain or with France, as the case may .be.
In this section we are resented with a distinction.
taken by the legislature themselves, and which, indeed, pervades the whole system between the sus'
pension of trade created by that act, and by thq
.embargo laws. The two systems were entirely ditA
ferent, and enforced by different and distinct penalties. 1Vy the one, our vessels were at liberty to go
where they pleased; by the other, they were prevented from going to any foreign port whatever.
The revival, then, of these sections, did not preclude
Such

OF iHE UNITED STATES.

216

our vessels from going to any part of the world, but
1816.
only forbid their bringing to this country the articles
The
Edwar.
the
12th
If
whose importation Was prohibited.
section had also been revived, then no vessel of the
United States could have gonb to Great Britain or
France, and the distinction of permitted and forbidden ports would have continued until the Ist of
May, 1810. But as-the whole embargo system ekpired in June, 1809, not only by the 19th section of
the act of March, 1809, but also by the express provision of the act of June of the same year, the conclusion is inevitable, that when the Edward, sailed
there, was no law in .force by which any distinction
of prohibited and permitted ports existed; and that,
therefore, the not giving the bond in question was no
violation of law.
No notice .has been taken of eithe, 6f the proclamations of the president, because, if the view here
presented be correct, neither of them has any bearing 9p the .question. .Admitting the validity, of both
of them, the latter would not make the ports of Eng. land prohibited ports, if the laws which creted
the distinction, bad done it away by opening to the
citizens, of the United States the ports of every nation on the- globe. The president's power could
qnly exist while such a state of things c.ontinued as'
suggested the necessity of, and w6uld render, an
interfeirence on' his'- part proper and useful, and no
longer.
b
It may be,.and has been, said that the opinion
here expressed is-at variance with the public opinion on this subject, as well as with the understand-

276

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

ing of the collectors and some other officers of goThe
vernment; and that even this court has, at its preEdward. sept term, condemned property for the same offence
with which the Edward is charged. The answer to
all this is, that the condemnation alluded to passed
sub silentio, without bringing the point distinctly to
our view, and is, therefore, no precedent; and that, as
to public opinion, .or that of the officers of government, however respectable they may be, it can furnish no good grouds for enforcing so heavy a penalty, unless, on investigation, it shall appear to haie
been correctly formed. It was also urged that congress must have supposed the law to be as it. is now
contended for by the attorney-general, or they would
not have passed the 3d section-of the act of the 48th
June, 1809, when there was -no state of things to
which its provisions could apply. To this the answer which was given at the bar is satisfactory. At
the time' of.the bringing in of that bill, the embargo
laws were still in force, and would continue so until
the end of that session. Now, as it could not then
be, foreseen that the bill would not become a law
until the last day of the- session, a prohibition n6t
to go to prohibited ports was necessary, but became nugatcry by the law not passing until the time
prescribed for the extinction of the whole system
Upon the whole, it appears to me clear, that
there was no law in force wheq the Edward left Saavannah interdicting her from going to any foreign
port whatever, or requiring from her owners any
bond not to.go to such port; and, under this perua.
1816.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

277

sion, I have thought it a duty to express my dissent
has been just rendered.
from the judgment which
~The

1816.

But were the case doubtful, I should still arrive at
the. same cornclusion, rather than execute a law so
excessively penal, about whose existence -and meaning such various opinions have been 'etertained.
To satisfy ourselves that great difficulties must
exist, in relation to this law, we have "only to look
at the progress of the 'case now -before us. The
offence with which the Edward is charged in'the
information, is going, without giving bondf to a prohibited foreign port. The condemnation in the circuit court, however, proceeded ofi the ground of all
the ports o'f Great Britain (to one of which it.was
alleged she 'vas going) being pernitted ports. In
the 'very able argument which w'as made here in
support of the prosecution, it was attempted to be
shown that Liverpool'was not e permitted, but an
interdicted,port. This state of uncertainty, which,
it would seem, could hardly exist if the legislature
had expressed themselves with that precision and
perspicuity which are always expected in criminal
cases, would, with me, independent of my own convictions that there was no s'uch prohibiting law,
have been a sufficient reason for restoring this property to the claimants.

Edward.

Sentence of the circuit court affirmed.
c In order to enable the reader
the better to understand this case,
the'following account of the dates
and substamcc of the British or-

ders in council, the French decrees, and the consequent acts of
the United States' go-ernment.
has been subjoined.

278

CASES IN! THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
e

On the 16th of May, 1806, the
British gove rnment issued an order

The
dward.

in council, declaring the coast included between the Elbe and
Brest in state of blockade.
On the 21st of November, 1806,
the French emperor issued his
Berlin decree, declaring* Great
Britain and her'depdndencies in a
state of blockade.
On.the 7th of January, 1807 the
-British governmhent issued an " order in counbil, probibiting neutal
ships from. carrying os trade from
one enemy's Port to' another, including Fraince and her allies.
.
'On the llthqf Novenber, 1807,
4be British orders in council were
issued,-which declared thecontinental ports froxv which -British
zbips-were exciuddd in-a state of
Miockade, (except in case of ships
cleaied out from .Great Britain
whose cargoes had .paid a transit
duty, and rdndered liable to*conderntiation jll neutral ships, ivith,
thir car oes,. trading to or from
the prti of Frauce, or her allie ,
nd their dependencies, or harbg
en board certificates of origin.
. On tle 7th ofDeceenber, 18p7, the
)'rench emperor issued his Milan.
decee, declaring that any neutral
ships which should have tduched.
at a British port, or paid a transit
dutyto the British govepment, or
submitted to be serched by Brifish ctuizers, should be- liable to
condemnation.
On te 22d of December, 1807,
the Angrican embargotok place.

On the 1st of Marih, 1809, the
embargo was removed, and a
non-intercourse substituted with
"both France aid'England.
On the 19th of April, 1809, a negotiation was,concluded by Mr.
Erskine, in consbquence Qf which
the trade with pr'eat, Britain was
renewed on the 10th of June.
'.On the 26th of April, 1809, a British order in council was.issued,
mbdifying the forme blockade,
whici was henceforth t6 be confinqd to ports under thegovernmenbts of- Holland (as far north as
the river tumsl and France, together with the colonies of both,
and all ports of Ity ,included between Orbitello and Pesaro.
On the 10th of August, 1809,'the
non-intercotorse with Great Britain a.gaia. tqok :p]ace, in co'nse:quence of Mr. Erskine's arrangemert not being'ratified"
On the 1st of May,-1810, the
trade W
*ith'bbth Grqat Britain and
France was bpened, under a law
of copgres, that whenever either
power hld r scind'its orders or
decrees, the president should issue a proclamation to that effect;
andii case the other party should
not, within thred months, equally
withdraw its ordo's or decrees,
that the non-importationact should
go into effect with respect to that
power.
On the 2d of November, 1810,
th president isued his proclamation, declaring the Berlin and
Milan decrees to be so far with-

OF THE -UNITED STATES.

279

drawn, as no longer to affect the ships -into America, were prohi1816.
neutral rights of America; and bited.
the' orders in council not b'eing
On the 4th of April, 1812, an Mutual Ass.
rescinfhid,
embargo was laid in the United Society.
On the 2d of.February, 1811, Stat~s, and onthe 18th ofJune l- Watts' Exe.
the importation of British goods, lowing, war was, declared against
cutor.
and the admission of Britith Great.Britaib.

(LOCAL LA.

The MUTUAL

ASSURANtE SOCIETY V. WATTS-

xecutor.
Under the 6th and 8th sections of the act of Assembly of Virginia, of
the 22dof December, 1794, property pledged tf the Mutual Assurance Society, &c., continues liable for agsessments, in account of
tOe losses insured asainst, in the hands of i bonajldepurchaser without notice.
A more change of sovergignty produces no change in.the stat e of rights
existing in the soil; and the cession of the District of. Columia to
the national government did uot affect the lien created.by ihe abovp
act on real property situate in the tdyn of Alexandria, though the,
personal character oi liability bf a member of the sofi ty cduld not
be thereby forced on a purchaser of such property.

AP.PPAL

from the circuit court in the.District of Co-,

ulnbia for Alexandria county. The cause..was ar-.
gued by Swan, for the appellants, and by Taylor
and Lee, for the respondeii 4
3

0{NSOx,

follews:

3., delivered the 4inion of the court, as

March 16th.

