OF THE UNITED. STATES.

dome to his knowledge. The consular certificate is 1816.
a part of the ship's papers, and, as such, is necessa- Preston
rily a part of the documentary evidence•"in.""Browder.
the cause.
V.
The recital of the procuration is said not to be admissible at common law;, but, this court-is now sitting as a court of prize.
The cause was this day ordered to farther proof,
on the part of thecaptors and claimants.
Farther proof ordered.

(LOCAL" LAW.)

PRESTON v. BROWDER.
The Act of Assembly of North Carolina, of November, 1777, establishing offices for receiving entries of claims for lands in the several
counties of the state, did not authorize'entries for lands within the
Indian boundary, as defined by the treaty of the Long Island of Holston, of the 20th of July, 1777. The Act of April, 1778,is a legislative declaration explaining and amending the former Act, and no,
title is acquired by an entry contrary to these laws.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of East
Tennessee. This was an action of ejectment commenced by the plaintiff in error in that court. On
the trial 6f" the cause. the plaintiff produced and
read in evidence an entr, made on the 25th of Feb-

March 2d,

CASES IN THF SUPREME COURT
sta6.
Pgeston

v.

ruary, 1778, in the name of Eph~aim' Dunlap, fop
acres. of land in the point between Tennessee

S400

and Hqlston rivers. .Also, a grant to said Dunlap,
issued in virtue of, and founded upon, said. entry,
under the great seal of the state of North Carolina,
.dated the 29th of July, 1793; which granf*oas
.duly
registered. The plaintiff also produced, and read
in evidence, a deed. of conveyance, with the certifi-.
cates of probate and registr~tion endorsed, from
Dunlap,. the grantee, to John Rhea. Also, a deed
-f conyeyapnce from said Rhea to the lessor of the
plaintiff. It. vas. also proved that the land lies within the boundaries of what was the state of North
Carolina at the time of making said entry, and within-the 'cotinty of. Washington ;- likewise, Within the
territory ceded by the state of North Carolina, to the
United States, in 1789; and within the now county of!
Blount, in the district of East Tennessee.; that it lies
on the south side of Holston river, and between
Big Pigeoni and Tennes.ee river, and west of a line
described in the 5th section of the act of. the general
4ssembly of North Carolina, pass6 in April, 1778,
.chap. 3. Also, within the tract of country secure to,
the Indians in 1791, by, the treaty of Holston, and
that the Indlan title thereft was relinquished in
179Q- by the treaty of Tellico.
The 'defendant
produced and gave in evidence, a, g ant from the
state uf- Tennesspe to himself, made out and authen.
ticated in the. manner prescribed by the laws of.Tenpessee, and dated the 18th of May, f810, .which
covers and includes the whole of the' land. in -his popsession, and for which this -suit wv¢as bkought. The

OF THE VUNITED STATES.

plaintiff, by his counsel, moved the court to charge 1816.
Pnd instruct the jury, "that an entry was actually Preston
made with the entry. taker of Washington county,
V.
Browder.
eviwas
entry
the
that
lay;
land
which'the
within
dence that the consideration money was paid as required by law; that paying the consideration mo-,
ney,.Rnd making the entry, -created a contract between the state of North Carolina and the said Dunlap, which vested a-right in him to the land in
dispute, and that it as not in the power of the
legislature, at -a subseqtient period, to destroy
the right thus7 vested; or rescind said contract,
,without the consent of the said Dunlap. That ha,
ing the same land afterwards surveyed and giapted,
in the manner prescribed by the laws of Norlh.Carolia, vested in'the said Dunlap and his heirs a com.
plete title botl at -law. and in equity; and,, that
the conveyance from' Piunlap -to" Rhea, and- from
Rhea to the lessor of the plaintiff, vested a complete
legal title in him, and, therefire, he was entitled to a
verdict." Which, cliarge and .instruction the coIitt
refused to giveto the jury; but, on the contrary,
".chbrged and instructed them, " that the said entry
and grant were both null and void, and vested no title
whatever in-the said Dunlap, becauae, at the tide .of
making said entry, and obtaining said "gant ,the
land inchiqed thereir lay in a part. of the:. ountry
where 'the laws of North'Carolina had.not authorized their -fficers to permit lands to be entered, or
to issue grants therefor; and although the entry .and
&.rantmight have been made in the form required

118

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

1816.

by law, yet no interest whatever passed from the
state of North Carolina to Dunlap thereby,. and,
Preston
V.
therefore, they ought to find a verdict for the deBrowder. fendant."
A verdict was rendered accordingly, and
a judgment pronounced thereon. To which charge
and instruction the plaintiff's counsel excepted, and
the cause was brought into' this court by writ of
error.
Key, for the plaintiff in error. ' The-question in
this cause turns upon the validity of ayi act of assembly of North Carolina, of April; 1778, repealing.
a former act of November, 1777, c. 1. s. 3., under
which the plaintiff's entry was authorized. . It is an
ex post facto law, which the state is incompetent to
pass; its own courts have decided, that a law, depriving a university of its lands, was unconsiitutional
and void.4 This court has determined that a lbw in
the nature of a convention or contract cannot be so
repealed as to devest rights of property previoslj
acquired under it." As to the Indian title, the usufruct only, of this waste land, was reserved to them;
and the legislature might grant lands subject to.the
extinguishment of their title to the domain of property. This was a mere temporary arrangement, and
the title of the natives was extinguished by the treaty of Tellico. There was, therefore, nothing to prevent an entry of lands anywhere within the territorial limits of North Carolina.
a Heywood. Trustees of the University v. Foy.
b 6 Granch, 87.

Fletcher V. Peck.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Pickens and Jones, contra. 1. The c orrect mode
of ascertaining the nature and effeet of the contract
(as it has been called) between the state and the
plaintiff, is by a reference to the plain interpretation

of the act of 1777, connected with the local history
of that period, and the circumstance.s of the entry.
The law provides, that entries may be made in the
several counties of the state of all lands thereinj not
previously granted, and which shall havo accrued to
the state by treaty or conquest; host manifestly implying the necessity of a previous extinguishmenfof
the Indian title. By the treaty of the Long Island
of Holston, of the 20th of July, 1777, art. 5th, a
boundary between.the Indians and the whites is. defined; and, by art. 6th, the Indians are guaianfied
against all intirusipn. The whole system of local
laws establishes a police over the territory in question, with the expre ss view of preven'ting the natives
frombeing disturbed in the enjoyment of their rights.
In 1778, finding that individuals, in the situation of
the plaintiff, either wilfully or through mistake, had'
made entries within the Indian reservation, the legislature passed an act recognising the limiis fixed
by the treaty of the year preceding, prohibiting future entries, and avoiding .those already made within
those limits. 2. But supposing the entry to have
been valid as a claimor right of pre-emption, against
other citizens, it was hot'lawfully consummated by a
subsequent survey and patent. Is the entry of such
stern, unbending authority, as, by relation back, to
dispense with the necessity f subsequent steps ?
Certainly not. By the act of 1783, the Indian

11"9

1818.
Preston

V.

CASkS IN THE SUPREME CObRt

126

boundary was changed, in confbrmity with the treadFrestonx ty -f Hopewell, and the issuing of grants for lando
r.
within the reservation was prohibited. The Iand
Bowder. in question continued by that treaty, and by a sub816.

"

''

sequent treaty made in 1791, between the United
States and the Cherokees, within the limits of the
latter. The survey aid grant were made in oppbsition to all these treaties -and laws; and, in 1789i
North Carolina ceded to the United States this territory, in which the state of Tennessee- was erected.
In 1791, the treaty, of Holston- once more guarantie( the Indians against intrusion.
So that thie
plaintiff's counsel has to bear up, not only against
the municipal laws of the country, but against the
most solemn pacts and conventions.
Key, in reply.. The' plaintiff's right, commenced
by a valid entry, could never be impaired by subsequent.laws and treaties. The primitive Indian title
Was- merely subordinate, and :subject to extincion:
If,by the payment of the fees upon his entry, the
plaintiff acquired an incipient right under the law
then in force, it cannot be affecfed by any subsequent act. His grant is dated 1793, and a presumption thence arises,' that he had complied with all .preceding requisites. The cession of 1789 contains
a reservation for perfecting titles where .ntries had
been made. The act of 1778 shows, that the former
law had allowed and countenanced entries ih Washitigton county; it is not a dedaratory;.u t a repealc 6 Cranch, 87.

FletCher r. Peck.

O

T14E UNITED STATE8.

ing statute, showing that the first law had not been
mistaken nor misconstrued.

121
1816.
Preton
V.

TODD,

J., delivered the opinion of the court, and)

after stating the facts, proceeded as follows:
The question now to be decided by the court is,
whether the charge and instructions repqiired by the
plaintiff's counsel ought to have beei given, and
whether the one given was correct.
In the construction of the statutory or locaj laes
of a state, it is frequently necess-ary to recur to the
history and situation of the country, in order to ascertain the reasor, as. well as the meaning, of many
of the provisions in them, to enable a codrt to apply,
with propriety,.the different rules for constraing statutes% It will be found, by a recurrence to the history of North Carolina, at the time of passing this
act; that she had, but a.short time before, shaken off
her colonial governmentl and assumed a soyerei'n
independent one of her own choice; that, during the
colobiial system, by instructions, and proclamations of
the. governor, the citizens were restrained'and prhibited from extending their settlefments to the Westward, so as to encroach on lands set apart for the
Indian tribes; that these encroachments hid produced hostilities; and that, on the 20th 'of JXly,
1777, a trPaty of peace had been concluded at fort
Henry, on H6fston river, near-the Long Island, between copnmissi6ners from the state of North Carolina and the chiefs 'of that part of the Cherokee iation called the Overhill Indians; and that a boundary between the state and the said Indians was
Ver,. L

Q

Broiwder.
A¢ rch 4th.

122

CASF.

1816.
'*"
P reston

e.

1rowde .

established.

W
4 THE SUPREME COURT

When the legislature of North Cato,-

lina were passing the

act of November,

1777s

establishing offices for receiving entries of claims
for

larids in the several counties within the state, it is

inprobable that the foregoing circumstances were
not contemplated by.them; and hence must have
arisen the restriction in the act, as to lands "which
have accrued, or shall accrue, to this state, by treaty
or conquest." If this be not the ground or reason of
the provision' it will be difficult to find one on which
it can operate, It may be asked, where was the
land which was to accrue by treaty or conquest, if not
within the chartered limits of that state ? If it wag
in a foreign country, or from a sister 9tate, the re-.
striction was unnacessary, because, in either case, it
was not within the limits of ahy county within that
state, and, of course, not subject to b6 entered for.
The retSiction must apply, then, to lands within the
chartered limits of the state, which it contemplated
would be acquired, by treaty or conquest, from the
Indian tribes, for none other can be imagined. It is
not to be presumed, that the legislature intended, so
shortly after making the treaty, to violate it, by perinitting entries to be made west of the line fixed by
the treaty. From the preamble of the act, as well
as other parts of it, it is clearly discernible that the
legislature intended " to parcel out their vacant
lands to industrious people, for the settlement thereof, and increasing the strength and number of the
people of the countiy, and affording a comfortable
and easy subsistence for families." Would these
objects be attained by permittinig settlements en-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

croaching on the lands lately set apart, by treaty,
for the use of the India5 tribes ? by provoking
hos•
tilitii.s with these tribes, and diminishing the strengthC_?
of the country by a cruel, unnecessary, and unpro,

fitable warfare with them? Surely not. However
broad and extensive the words of the act may be,
authorizing the entry takers of any county to receive claims for any lands lying in such county, under
certain restrictions, yet, frori the whole context of
the act, the lcgislativw intention, to prohibit and restrict entries from being made on lands reserVed for
Indian tribes, .maybe discerned, And this construe-.
tion is fortified and supported by the act of April,
1778, passed tp amend and explain the act of November, 1777 ; the 5th section of which expressly
forbids the enterirng or surveying any lands within
the Indian hunting grounds, recognises the western
boundary, as fixea by t above-mentioned treaty,
and declares void all entries and surveys which have
been, or shall thereafter be made withip the Indian
boundary.
It is objected, that the act of April, 1778, so far as
it relates to entries made before its passage, is unconstitutional and void.
If the reasoning in the previous part of this opi,
nion be correct, that objection is not well founded.
That reasoning is founded upon the act of 1777, and
the history and situation of the country at that time.
The act of 1778 is referred to, as a legislative declaration, explaining and amending.the act of 1777.
It is argued that there'is no recital in the act of 1778,
declaring, that the act of 1777 had been misconstrucd

18n.
Preston

v:
Browder

1[24

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.

or mistaken by the citizens of the state; or, that en-

"

tries had been made. on lands, contrary to the vmean-

rrest9Pi
v.
ing and intention of that ac4 ; and, that the' 5th sec3rowder.

tion is an exercise of legislative will, declaring null

and void rights which had been acquired under a
previous law. Although the legislature may not
have made the recital and declaration in the precise
terms mentioned, nor used the most appropriate expressions to communicate their meaning, yet it will
be-seen, by a careful pefusal of the act, that they
profess to explain, as well as to amend, the act of
1777. Upon a full review of all the acts of 'the legislature'of North Carolina, respecting the manner
of appropriating their vacant lands, and construing
them in paiimateria, there is a uniform intention manifested to prohibit and restri6t entries from being.
madte on lands included within the Indian boundaries.
Therefore, this court- unanimously affirms the deci.
sionof the circuit court with costs.
Judgment affirmed.

