CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1816.
Patton's

Lesmce
tt

John Shore, deceased, and Reuben M. Gillian, as he
is administrator of-the goods and eficts of Andrew
Tarbone, deceased.
-2d. !n the case of Thomas Shore and another

against Joseph Jones and others, that the representative of the late survcyor, in right of his intestate,
was entitled to receive one moiety of that portion of
the penalty in the proceedings mentioned, which is
by law to be distrib, ted among the several revenue
officers of 'the district wherein the penalty was
incurred.

(LOCAL LAW.)
PATTON'S

Lessee v.

EASTON.

Under the act of the legislature of Tennessee, passed in 1797, to explain an act of the legislature of North Carolina, of 1715. a possession of seven years is a bar only when held under a grant, or a deed
founded on, a grant.
The act of assembly vesting lands in the trustees of the town of l.shville, is a grant of those lands, and when the defendant shovi d no
title under the trustees, nor under any other grant, his possession
of seven years was held insufficient to protect his title, or bar that
of the plaintiff under a conveyance from the trustees.
ERROR

to the circuit court for the district of West

Tennessee. This was an ejectment for one moiety
of a lot of land lying in Nashville. The cause was
argued at February term, 1815, by Humplhries and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Jones, for the plaintiff in error, and by P. B. Key and
Swann, for the defeidant, and was continued for advisement to the present term.

1816.
Patton's
Lessee
V1.

MARSHALL, CTL
court.

J., delivered the opinion of the

The legislature of North Carolina, while Tennessee was a part of that state, passed an act establishing the tbwn of Nashville, and vesting 200 acres of
land in trustees, to be laid off in lots, and sold, and
conveyed in the manner prescribed by the act. On
the 1st of July, 1784, subsequent to the passage of
the act establishing the town, the trustees executed
a deed regularly conveying the lot, for a moiety of
which this suit was brought to Abednigo Lbwellin.
On the 1st of April, 1810, Shadrack Lewellin, heir
at law'of Abednigo, who had then attained his full
age of twenty-one years, for seven years and upwards,
executed a deed conveying the land-in controversy to
Francis May; after which, and previous to the institution of this suit, Francis May conveyed the same
land to the lessor of the plaintiff. The defendant
produced a deed dated the 2d of Februai-y, 1793,
executed by a certain Josiah Love, and purporting
to convey the land in controversy to William T.
Lewis. It appeared in evidence that Lewis had
purchased the land fairly, and paid a valuable consideration for it, and that at the time no person was
in possession of it. Immediately after this conveyance, Lewis entered into, and took full possession of.
the premises, made valuable improvements thereon,
and continued so possessed until the 14th of Februa

Easton

March 218t

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUfT

478
1816.

ry, 1810, when he sold and conveyed the same to

,"-'-'
Patton's

William Easton, the defendant, who entered into and

Lessee

took possession, and continued peaceably possessed
thereof, until the 12th of November, 1810, when this
suit was instituted. Upon this testimony, the defendaw's counsel moved the court to instruct the
jury that the defendant was protected in his possession of the premises by the laws of the land,
and that by virtue of the said laws the plaintiff
was barged from recovering the said parcel of
gmrd awl premises. On this question the judges
wore divided in opinion, which question and division
have been certified to this court as prescribed by
law.
The evidence is not so stated on the record as to
present any point for the consideration of this court,
other than the question whether a possession of seven
years is, in this case, a bar to the plaintiff's action.
This question depends on the construction of an act
of the legislature of Tennessee, passed in the year
1797, to explain an act of the legislature of North
Cardlina, passed in the year 1715.
The ct of 1715, after affirming, in the first and
second sections, certain irregular deeds, previously
made, under which possession had been held for se-

T.

Easton.

ven years, enacts, iii the third section, " thai no

person, or persons, or their heirs, which hereafter
shall have any: right, or title, to any lands, tenements, or hereditaments, shall thereunto enter or
make claim, but within seven years after his, her, or
heir right or title shall descend or accrue; and in

OF THE UNITED STATES.

default thereof such person or persons so not entering or making default shall be utterly excluded and
disabled from any entry or claim thereafter to be
made."
The fourth section contains the usual
savings in favour of infants, &c., who are authorized
within three years after their disabilities shall cease
"to commence his or her suit, or make his or her
entry." Persons beyond s... are allowed eight years
after their return; "but that all possessions held
without suing such claim as aforesaid, shall be a perpetual bar against all and all manner of persons
whatever, that the expectation of heirsmay not, in
a short time, leave much land unpossessed, and titles
so perplexed that no man will know from whom to
take or buy land."
The judges and lawyers of the stete of North
Carolinha have been much divided on the construction of this. act; some maintaining that, like other
acts of limitation, it protects mere naked possession;
others, that.the first and second sectio's (which are
retrospective) have such an inflhence on the third
and fourth, (which are prospective,) as to limit their
operation to a possession acquired and held by colour
of title. This court- is relieved from an investigAtion of these doubts by a case decided in the supreme
court of North Carolina, in which it was finally determined that the act of 1715, afforded protection to
those only who held by colour of title. *This contest
was maintained as strenuously in Tennessee after its
separation from North Carolina as in the present
state. Anterior to the decision of the supreme
'-eurt of North Carnina. which has been mentioned

1816.
Patfon's

Lessee
V.

Eastoz.

CASES IN THE SU.PRFIId COURT

480

1816.

the legislature pas*sed an act to settle "the true con-

'struction
Patron's

Lessee.
Easton,

of the existing laws .respecting seven yearsi

possession," in which it is enacted, "that in all cases
wherever any person, or persons, shall have had
seven ye ars' peaceable possession of any land, lnj virtue of a grant, or deed of conveyance founded upon a
grant, and no legal claim by suit'in law, by such, set
up to said land, within the above term, that. then,
and in that case, the person, or persons, so holding
possession :s afbresaid, -shall be entitled to hold possession in preference to all other claimants, such
quantity of land as shall be specified in his, her, or
their, said grant, pr deed of conveyance, founded on
a grant as aforesaid." The act then proceeds to
bar the claim of those who shall neglect, for. the
term of seven years, to avail themselves of any title
they .may have. As not unfrequently happens, this
explanatory law generated as many. doubts as
the law it was intended to explain. On thb one
part it was coniended, that being designed for the

sole purpose of reiioving all uncertainty respecting
the 'construction of the act of 1715, its provisions
ought to be limited to its avowed object, and a doubt
had never. existed whether it was necessary for a
person in possession to show more than a colour of
title, a deed acquired in good faith, in order to protect himself under that act; so, nothing farther
ought to be required in order to enable him to avail
himself of the act of 1797. That if it should be
necessqtry to trac'e a title'up to a grant, the act of
1797, instead of quieting possession, would, in process of time, strip a very long possession of that pro-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

tectmk quality which the policy of ill other countries bestowed upon it; that the act of 1797, wasobviously drawn with so much carelessness as, in
some of its parts, to exclude the possibility of a literal construction; and, for this reason, . more liberal
construction would be admissible in order to effect its
intent. It was, therefore, insisted not to be necessary for the defendant, holding possession under a
bonafide conveyance of lands which had been actually granted, to deduce his title from the grant; but
that it was sufficient to show that the land had beefi
granted, and that he held a peaceable possession. of
seven years under a deed. On the other part it was"
contended, that, on this point, there is no ambiguity
in the words of the act. The seven years' possession, to be available, must be ,"'byvirtue of a grant,
or of a deed founded on a grant." It is.as essential
that the deed should be founded on a grant, as that a
deed should exist. A possession of seven years does
no more in the one case than in the other bar a legal
title. The words of the act being perfectly clear;
they must be understood in. their natural sense.
When confined to different deeds, founded on the
same patent, or to deeds founded on different patents,
for the same land, although -some cases of fair possession may be excluded from their operation, yet
they will apply to the great mass of cases arising in
the country.
This question, too, has, at length, been decided in
the supreme court of the state. Subsequent to the
division of opinion on this question, in the circuit
court, two cases have been decided in the supreme
Vo.

L

3P

1816.
Patton'a
Lessee
Eston.

482

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1816.
d
Ross and

court for the state of Tennessee, which have settled
the construction of the act of 1797. It has been de-

Morrison
V.

cided, that a possession of seven years is a bar only

Reed

when held "under a grant, or a deed founded on a
grant." The deed must be connected with the
grant. This court concurs in that opinion. A deed
cannot be "founded on a grant" which gives a title
not derived in law or equity from that grant;- and the
words founded on a grant, are- too important to be
discarded. The act of assembly vesting lands in
the trustees of the town of Nashville, is a grant of
those lands, and as the defendant shows no title under the trustees, nor under any other granit, his possession of seven years cannot protect his title, nor
bar that of the plaintiffi And this is to be certified
to the circuit court for the district of West Tennessee.
Certificate for the plaintiff.

(LOCAL LAW.)
Ross AND MORRISON v. REED.
Where the plaintiff in ejectment claimed title to lands in the state of
Tennesspe, under a grant from said state, dated the 26th of April,
1809, founded on an entry made in the entry taker's office, of Washington county, dated the 2d of January, 1779, in the name of J.
M'Dowell, on which a warrant issued on the 17Th of May, 17'9, to
the plaintiff, as the assignee of J.M'Dowell, and the defendants
claimed under a grant from the state of North Carolina, dated the

