SCHRIRO v. SUMMERLIN
BREYER,

J., dissenting

By contrast, this case involves only a small subclass of defendants deprived of jury trial rights, the relevant harm
within that subclass is more widespread, the administration
of justice problem is far less serious, and the reliance interest
less weighty. For these reasons, I believe the DeStefano
Court would have come out differently had it been considering Ring's rule. Insofar as DeStefano has any relevance
here, it highlights the importance, when making retroactivity decisions, of taking account of the considerations that underlie Teague's categorical rules. And, as shown above,
those considerations argue in favor of retroactivity in this
case. See supra, at 362-365.
As I have pointed out, the majority does not deny that
Ring's rule makes some contribution to greater accuracy. It
simply is unable to say "confidently" that the absence of
Ring's rule creates an "'"impermissibly large risk"'" that
the death penalty was improperly imposed. Ante, at 356.
For the reasons stated, I believe that the risk is one that the
law need not and should not tolerate. Judged in light of
Teague's basic purpose, Ring's requirement that a jury, and
not a judge, must apply the death sentence aggravators announces a watershed rule of criminal procedure that should
be applied retroactively in habeas proceedings.
I respectfully dissent.

OCTOBER TERM, 2003
Syllabus

CHENEY, VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, ET AL. V. UNITED STATES DISTRICT

COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
No. 03-475.

Argued April 27, 2004-Decided June 24, 2004

The President established the National Energy Policy Development Group
(Group) to give him advice and make recommendations on energy policy,
assigning a number of federal agency heads and assistants to serve as
Group members and authorizing the Vice President, as Group chairman,
to include other federal officers as appropriate. After the Group issued
a final report and, according to the Government, terminated all operations, respondents filed these separate actions, later consolidated in the
District Court, alleging that the Group had not complied with the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), which, inter alia,imposes a variety of open-meeting and disclosure requirements on entities meeting the
definition of "advisory committee." As relevant here, such a committee
is an entity or "subgroup ... , which is ... established or utilized by
the President .... exclud[ing] ... any committee ... composed wholly
of full-time, or permanent part-time, [federal] officers or employees." 5
U. S. C. App. § 2(B)(i). The complaint alleged that, because nonfederal
employees and private lobbyists regularly attended and fully participated in the Group's nonpublic meetings as de facto Group members,
the Group could not benefit from the § 2(B) exemption and was therefore
subject to FACA's requirements. The suit sought declaratory relief and
an injunction requiring the defendants-including the Vice President
and the Government officials serving on the Group-to produce all materials allegedly subject to FACA's requirements.
Among its rulings, the District Court granted the defendants' motion
to dismiss as to some of them, but denied it as to others. The Court
held that FACA's substantive requirements could be enforced against
the Vice President and the other Government participants under the
Mandamus Act, 28 U. S. C. § 1361, and against the agency defendants
under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U. S. C. § 706. It deferred
ruling on whether the FACA disclosure duty was sufficiently clear and
nondiscretionary for mandamus to issue. It also deferred ruling on the
Government's contention that to disregard the §2(B) exemption and
apply FACA to the Group would violate separation-of-powers principles

368

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Syllabus

and interfere with the President's and Vice President's constitutional
prerogatives. Instead, the court allowed respondents to conduct a
"tightly-reined" discovery to ascertain the Group's structure and membership, and thus to determine whether the de facto membership doctrine applied. While acknowledging that discovery itself might raise
serious constitutional questions, the court explained that the Government could assert executive privilege to protect sensitive materials
from disclosure. The court noted that if, after discovery, respondents
had no evidentiary support for their allegations about de facto members
in the Group, the Government could prevail on statutory grounds.
Even were it appropriate to address constitutional issues, the court explained, its discovery orders would provide the factual development necessary to determine the extent of the alleged intrusion into the Executive's constitutional authority. The court then ordered respondents to
submit a discovery plan, approved that plan in due course, entered
orders allowing discovery to proceed, and denied the Government's
motion for certification under 28 U. S. C. § 1292(b) with respect to the
discovery orders.
Petitioners sought a writ of mandamus in the Court of Appeals to
vacate the discovery orders and for other relief, but the court dismissed
the mandamus petition on the ground that alternative avenues of relief
remained available. Citing United States v. Nixon, 418 U. S. 683, the
court held that petitioners, in order to guard against intrusion into the
President's prerogatives, must first assert executive privilege with particularity in the District Court. If the lower court sustained the privilege, the appeals court observed, petitioners would be able to obtain
all the relief they sought; but if the District Court rejected the claim,
mandamus might well be appropriate. So long as the separation-ofpowers conflict remained hypothetical, the court held, it had no authority to exercise the extraordinary remedy of mandamus. Although acknowledging that the scope of respondents' discovery requests was
overly broad, the appeals court nonetheless agreed with the District
Court that petitioners should bear the burden of invoking executive
privilege and of objecting to the discovery orders with detailed
precision.
Hel&
1. Respondents' preliminary argument that the mandamus petition
was jurisdictionally out of time is rejected. Respondents assert that,
because the Government's basic argument was one of discovery immunity-i. e., it need not invoke executive privilege or make particular objections to the discovery requests-the mandamus petition should have
been filed within 60 days after the District Court denied the motion to

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Syllabus
dismiss under Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(a)(1)(B). On this
theory, the last day for any filing in the appeals court was September 9,
2002, whereas the mandamus petition and notice of appeal were not filed
until November 7. However, Rule 4(a), by its plain terms, applies only
to the filing of a notice of appeal. It is inapplicable to the' mandamus
petition under the All Writs Act, 28 U. S. C. §1651. Respondents' alternative argument that the mandamus petition was barred by the equitable doctrine of laches also fails. Laches might be a bar where the petitioner slept on his rights and especially if the delay was prejudicial.
Chapman v. County of Douglas, 107 U. S. 348, 355. Here, however, the
flurry of motions the Government filed after the District Court denied
the dismissal motion overcomes respondents' argument. Nor does the
Court accept their argument that laches should apply because those
Government motions amounted to little more than dilatory tactics.
Given the drastic nature of mandamus and this Court's holdings that the
writ may not issue while alternative avenues of relief remain available,
the Government cannot be faulted for attempting to resolve the dispute
through less drastic means. Pp. 378-380.
2. The Court of Appeals erred in concluding it lacked authority to
issue mandamus because the Government could protect its rights by
asserting executive privilege in the District Court. Pp. 380-392.
(a) Mandamus is a "drastic and extraordinary" remedy "reserved
for really extraordinary causes." Ex parte Fahey, 332 U. S. 258, 259260. While the conditions for obtaining it may be demanding, they are
not insuperable. This Court has issued mandamus to, inter alia, restrain a lower court whose actions would threaten the separation of
powers by embarrassing the Executive Branch. Ex parte Peru, 318
U. S. 578, 588. Were the Vice President not a party, the argument that
the Court of Appeals should have entertained a mandamus action might
present different considerations. Here, however, the Vice President
and his Group comembers are the subjects of the discovery orders. The
mandamus petition alleges that the orders threaten substantial intrusions on the process by which those closest to the President advise him.
These facts and allegations remove this case from the category of ordinary discovery orders where interlocutory appellate review is unavailable, through mandamus or otherwise. A President's communications
and activities encompass a vastly wider range of sensitive material than
would be true of any ordinary individual. Nixon, 418 U. S., at 715.
While the President is not above the law, the Judiciary must afford
Presidential confidentiality the greatest possible protection, ibid., recognizing the paramount necessity of protecting the Executive Branch from
vexatious litigation that might distract it from the energetic performance of its constitutional duties. These separation-of-powers consid-

370

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Syllabus

erations should inform a court of appeals' evaluation of a mandamus
petition involving the President or the Vice President. Accepted mandamus standards are broad enough to allow a court to prevent a lower
court from interfering with a coequal branch's ability to discharge its
constitutional responsibilities. See Ex parte Peru, supra, at 587.
Pp. 380-382.
(b) The Court of Appeals labored under the mistaken assumption
that the assertion of executive privilege is a necessary precondition to
the Government's separation-of-powers objections. In its view, the requirement that the Vice President and his Group colleagues bear the'
burden of invoking executive privilege with narrow specificity and objecting to the discovery requests with detailed precision was mandated
by Nixon's rejection of an "absolute, unqualified Presidential privilege
of immunity from judicial process under all circumstances," 418 U. S.,
at 706. The appeals court's analysis overlooks fundamental differences
between this case and Nixon, which cannot bear the weight the court
put on it. Unlike this case, which concerns requests for information
for use in a civil suit, Nixon involved the proper balance between the
Executive's interest in the confidentiality of its communications and the
"constitutional need for production of relevant evidence in a criminal
proceeding." Id., at 713. The distinction between criminal and civil
proceedings is not just a matter of formalism in this context. The right
to production of relevant evidence in civil proceedings does not have the
same "constitutional dimensions" as it does in the criminal context. Id.,
at 711. Withholding necessary materials in an ongoing criminal case
constitutes an impermissible impairment of another branch's "essential
functions." Ibid. Withholding the information in this case does not
hamper such "essential functions" in quite the same way. The District
Court ordered discovery here, not to remedy known statutory violations, but to ascertain whether FACA's disclosure requirements apply
to the Group at all. This situation cannot, in fairness, be compared to
Nixon, where a court's ability to fulfill its constitutional responsibility
to resolve cases and controversies within its jurisdiction hinged on the
availability of certain indispensable information. Another important
factor here is the burden imposed by the discovery orders. This is not
a routine discovery dispute. The discovery requests are directed to the
Vice President and other senior Government officials who served on
the Group to give advice and make recommendations to the President.
Special considerations control when the Executive's interests in maintaining its autonomy and safeguarding its communications' confidentiality are implicated. See, e. g., Clintonv. Jones,520 U. S. 681, 707. Even
when compared against Nixon's criminal subpoenas involving the President, the civil discovery here militates against respondents' position.

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Syllabus
There are no checks in civil discovery analogous to the constraints imposed in the criminal justice system to filter out insubstantial legal
claims. Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 11 sanctions and private attorneys' obligation of candor to the judicial tribunal have proved insufficient to discourage the filing of meritless claims against the Executive
Branch. Finally, the narrowly tailored subpoena orders in Nixon,
which "precisely identified" and "specific[ally]... enumerated" the relevant materials,'418 U. S., at 688, and n. 5, stand in marked contrast to
the overly broad discovery requests approved by the District Court.
Given that disparity, this Court's precedents provide no support for the
appeals court's requirement that the Executive Branch bear the burden
of invoking executive privilege with sufficient specificity and of making
particularized objections. Indeed, those precedents suggest just the
opposite. See, e. g., Clinton, supra, at 705. Contrary to their conclusions, Nixon did not leave the lower courts the sole option of inviting
the Executive Branch to invoke executive privilege. Rather, they could
have narrowed the scope of the discovery orders on their own. In deciding whether to issue mandamus, the Court of Appeals must not only
determine whether there are exceptional circumstances amounting to a
judicial usurpation of power, Will v. United States, 389 U. S.90, 95, or a
"clear abuse of discretion," Bankers Life & Casualty Co. v. Holland,
346 U. S.379, 383, but must also ask whether the District Court's actions
constituted an unwarranted impairment of another branch in the performance of its constitutional duties. Pp. 383-391.
(c)Absent overriding concerns such as the need to avoid piecemeal
litigation, see Schlagenhauf v. Holder, 379 U.S. 104, 111, the Court
declines to direct the Court of Appeals to issue mandamus against the
District Court. This is not a case where, having considered the issues,
the appeals court abused its discretion by failing to issue the writ. Instead, it relied on its mistaken reading of Nixon and prematurely terminated its inquiry without even reaching the weighty separation-ofpowers objections raised irrthe case or exercising its discretion to
determine whether mandamus is appropriate under the circumstances.
Because issuance of the writ is vested in the discretion of the court to
which the petition is made, this Court leaves it to the Court of Appeals
to address the parties' arguments and other matters bearing on whether
mandamus should issue, bearing in mind the burdens imposed on the
Executive Branch in any future proceedings. Special considerations
applicable to the President and the Vice President suggest that the
lower courts should be sensitive to Government requests for interlocutory appeals to reexamine, e. g., whether the statute embodies the de
facto membership doctrine. Pp. 391-392.
334 F. 3d 1096, vacated and remanded.

372

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

KENNEDY, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C..J., and STEVENS, O'CONNOR, and BREYER, JJ., joined, and in which
SCALIA and THOMAS, JJ., joined as to Parts I,II,III, and IV. STEVENS,
J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 392. THOMAS, J., filed an opinion
concurring in part and dissenting in part, in which SCALIA, J., joined, post,
p. 393. GINSBURG, J., filed a dissenting opinion, in which SOUTER, J.,
joined, post, p. 396.

Solicitor General Olson argued the cause for petitioners.
With him on the briefs were Assistant Attorney General
Keisler, Deputy Solicitor General Clement, Deputy Assistant Attorneys General Katsas and Coffin, and Mark B.
Stern, Michael S. Raab, and Douglas Hallward-Driemeier.
Alan B. Morrison argued the cause for respondent Sierra
Club. With him on the brief were Scott Nelson, David
Bookbinder, Patrick Gallagher,Alex Levinson, and Sanjay
Narayan. Paul J Orfanedes argued the cause for respondent Judicial Watch, Inc. With him on the brief was James
F. Peterson.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
The United States District Court for the District of Columbia entered discovery orders directing the Vice President
and other senior officials in the Executive Branch to produce
information about a task force established to give advice and
make policy recommendations to the President. This case
requires us to consider the circumstances under which a
court of appeals may exercise its power to issue a writ of
mandamus to modify or dissolve the orders when, by virtue
of their overbreadth, enforcement might interfere with the
JUSTICE KENNEDY

*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Association of Law Libraries et al. by David Overlock Stewart, Thomas
M. Susman, MiriamM. Nisbet, Mark David Agrast, Meredith Fuchs, and
Elliot M. Mincberg; for Natural Resources Defense Council by Eric R.
Glitzenstein, Howard M. Crystal, and Sharon Buccino; and for The Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press et al. by Lucy A Dalglish,
Richard M. Schmidt, Jr., and Bruce W.Sanford.

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of the Court

officials in the discharge of their duties and impinge upon the
President's constitutional prerogatives.
I
A few days after assuming office, President George W
Bush issued a memorandum establishing the National Energy Policy Development Group (NEPDG or Group). The
Group was directed to "develo[p] ... a national energy policy
designed to help the private sector, and government at all
levels, promote dependable, affordable, and environmentally
sound production and distribution of energy for the future."
App. 156-157. The President assigned a number of agency
heads and assistants-all employees of the Federal Government-to serve as members of the committee. He authorized the Vice President, as chairman of the Group, to invite
"other officers of the Federal Government" to participate "as
appropriate." Id., at 157. Five months later, the NEPDG
issued a final'report and, according to the Government, terminated all operations.
Following publication of the report, respondents Judicial
Watch, Inc., and the Sierra Club filed these separate actions,
which were later consolidated in the District Court. Respondents alleged the NEPDG had failed to comply with the
procedural and disclosure requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA or Act), 5 U. S. C. App. §2, p. 1.
FACA was enacted to monitor the "numerous committees,
boards, commissions, councils, and similar groups [that] have
been established to advise officers and agencies in the executive branch of the Federal Government," § 2(a), and to prevent the "wasteful expenditure of public funds" that may
result from their proliferation, Public Citizen v. Department
of Justice, 491 U. S. 440, 453 (1989). Subject to specific exemptions, FACA imposes a variety of open-meeting and disclosure requirements on groups that meet the definition of
an "advisory committee." As relevant here, an "advisory
committee" means

374

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

"any committee, board, commission, council, conference,
panel, task force, or other similar group, or any subcommittee or other subgroup thereof..., which is"(B) established or utilized by the President, ...except that [the definition] excludes (i) any committee that
is composed wholly of full-time, or permanent part-time,
.
officers or employees of the Federal Government ....
5 U. S. C. App. § 3(2), p. 2 .
Respondents do not dispute the President appointed only
Federal Government officials to the NEPDG. They agree
that the NEPDG, as established by the President in his
memorandum, was "composed wholly of full-time, or permanent part-time, officers or employees of the Federal Government." Ibid. The complaint alleges, however, that "nonfederal employees," including "private lobbyists," "regularly
attended and fully participated in non-public meetings."
App. 21 (Judicial Watch Complaint 25). Relying on Association of American Physicians & Surgeons, Inc. v. Clinton, 997 F. 2d 898 (CADC 1993) (AAPS), respondents contend that the regular participation of the non-Government
individuals made them de facto members of the committee.
According to the complaint, their "involvement and role are
functionally indistinguishable from those of the other [formal] members." Id., at 915. As a result, respondents
argue, the NEPDG cannot benefit from the Act's exemption
under subsection B and is subject to FACA's requirements.
Vice President Cheney, the NEPDG, the Government officials who served on the committee, and the alleged de facto
members were named as defendants. The suit seeks declaratory relief and an injunction requiring them to produce all
materials allegedly subject to FACA's requirements.
All defendants moved to dismiss. The District Court
granted the motion in part and denied it in part. The court
acknowledged FACA does not create a private cause of action. On this basis, it dismissed respondents' claims against

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of the Court

the non-Government defendants. Because the NEPDG had
been dissolved, it could not be sued as a defendant; and the
claims against it were dismissed as well. The District Court
held, however, that FACA's substantive requirements could
be enforced against the Vice President and other Government participants on the NEPDG under the Mandamus Act,
28 U. S. C. § 1361, and against the agency defendants under
the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U. S. C. § 706.
The District Court recognized the disclosure duty must be
clear and nondiscretionary for mandamus to issue, and there
must be, among other things, "final agency actions" for the
APA to apply. According to the District Court, it was premature to decide these questions. It held only that respondents had alleged sufficient facts to keep the Vice President
and the other defendants in the case.
The District Court deferred ruling on the Government's
contention that to disregard the exemption and apply FACA
to the NEPDG would violate principles of separation of powers and interfere with the constitutional prerogatives of the
President and the Vice President. Instead, the court allowed respondents to conduct a "tightly-reined" discovery to
ascertain the NEPDG's structure and membership, and thus
to determine whether the de facto membership doctrine applies. Judicial Watch, Inc. v. National Energy Policy Dev.
Group,219 F. Supp. 2d 20, 54 (DC 2002). While acknowledging that discovery itself might raise serious constitutional
questions, the District Court explained that the Government
could assert executive privilege to protect sensitive materials from disclosure. In the District Court's view, these "issues of executive privilege will be much more limited in
scope than the broad constitutional challenge raised by the
government." Id., at 55. The District Court adopted this
approach in an attempt to avoid constitutional questions, noting that if, after discovery, respondents have no evidentiary
support for the allegations about the regular participation
by lobbyists and industry executives on the NEPDG, the

376

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

Government can prevail on statutory grounds. Furthermore, the District Court explained, even were it appropriate
to address constitutional issues, some factual development is
necessary to determine the extent of the alleged intrusion
into the Executive's constitutional authority. The court denied in part the motion to dismiss and ordered respondents
to submit a discovery plan.
In due course the District Court approved respondents'
discovery plan, entered a series of orders allowing discovery
to proceed, see CADC App. 238, 263, 364 (reproducing orders
entered on Sept. 9, Oct. 17, and Nov. 1, 2002), and denied
the Government's motion for certification under 28 U. S. C.
§ 1292(b) with respect to the discovery orders. Petitioners
sought a writ of mandamus in the Court of Appeals to vacate
the discovery orders, to direct the District Court to rule on
the basis of the administrative record, and to dismiss the
Vice President from the suit. The Vice President also filed
a notice of appeal from the same orders. See Cohen v. Beneficial Industrial Loan Corp., 337 U. S.541 (1949); United
States v. Nixon, 418 U. S.683 (1974).
A divided panel of the Court of Appeals dismissed the petition for a writ of mandamus and the Vice President's attempted interlocutory appeal. In re Cheney, 334 F. 3d 1096
(CADC 2003). With respect to mandamus, the majority declined to issue the writ on the ground that alternative avenues of relief remained available. Citing United States v.
Nixon, supra, the majority held that petitioners, to guard
against intrusion into the President's prerogatives, must first
assert privilege. Under its reading of Nixon, moreover,
privilege claims must be made "'with particularity."' 334
F. 3d, at 1104. In the majority's view, if the District Court
sustains the privilege, petitioners will be able to obtain all
the relief they seek. If the District Court rejects the claim
of executive privilege and creates "an imminent risk of disclosure of allegedly protected presidential communications,"
"mandamus might well be appropriate to avoid letting 'the

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of the Court

cat... out of the bag."' Id., at 1104-1105. "But so long as
the separation of powers conflict that petitioners anticipate
remains hypothetical," the panel held, "we have no authority
to exercise the extraordinary remedy of mandamus." Id., at
1105. The majority acknowledged the scope of respondents'
requests is overly broad, because it seeks far more than the
"limited items" to which respondents would be entitled if
"the district court ultimately determines that the NEPDG
is subject to FACA." Id., at 1105-1106; id., at 1106 ("The
requests to produce also go well beyond FACA's requirements"); ibid. ("[Respondents'] discovery also goes well beyond what they need to prove"). It nonetheless agreed with
the District Court that petitioners "'shall bear the burden"'
of invoking executive privilege and filing objections to the
discovery orders with "'detailed precision.'" Id., at 1105
(quoting Aug. 2, 2002, Order).
For similar reasons, the majority rejected the Vice President's interlocutory appeal. In United States v. Nixon, the
Court held that the President could appeal an interlocutory
subpoena order without having "to place himself in the posture of disobeying an order of a court merely to trigger the
procedural mechanism for review." 418 U. S., at 691. The
majority, however, found the case inapplicable because Vice
President Cheney, unlike then-President Nixon, had not yet
asserted privilege. In the majority's view, the Vice President was not forced to choose between disclosure and suffering contempt for failure to obey a court order. The majority
held that to require the Vice President to assert privilege
does not create the unnecessary confrontation between two
branches of Government described in Nixon.
Judge Randolph filed a dissenting opinion. In his view
AAPS' de facto membership doctrine is mistaken, and the
Constitution bars its application to the NEPDG. Allowing
discovery to determine the applicability of the de facto membership doctrine, he concluded, is inappropriate. He would

378

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

have issued the writ of mandamus directing dismissal of the
complaints. 334 F. 3d, at 1119.
We granted certiorari. 540 U. S. 1088 (2003). We now
vacate the judgment of the Court of Appeals and remand the
case for further proceedings to reconsider the Government's
mandamus petition.
II
As a preliminary matter, we address respondents' argument that the Government's petition for a writ of mandamus
was jurisdictionally out of time or, alternatively, barred by
the equitable doctrine of laches. According to respondents,
because the Government's basic argument was one of discovery immunity-that is, it need not invoke executive privilege
or make particular objections to the discovery requests-the
mandamus petition should have been filed with the Court of
Appeals within 60 days after the District Court denied the
Government's motion to dismiss. See Fed. Rule App. Proc.
4(a)(1)(B) ("When the United States or its officer or agency
is a party, the notice of appeal may be filed by any party
within 60 days after the judgment or order appealed from is
entered"). On this theory, the last day for making any filing
to the Court of Appeals was September 9, 2002. The Government, however, did not file the mandamus petition and
the notice of appeal until November 7, four months after the
District Court issued the order that, under respondents'
view, commenced the time for appeal.
As even respondents acknowledge, however, Rule 4(a), by
its plain terms, applies only to the filing of a notice of appeal.
Brief for Respondent Sierra Club 23. Rule 4(a) is inapplicable to the Government's mandamus petition under the All
Writs Act, 28 U. S. C. § 1651. Because we vacate the Court
of Appeals' judgment and remand the case for further proceedings for the court to consider whether a writ of mandamus should have issued, we need not decide whether the Vice
President also could have appealed the District Court's or-

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of the Court

ders under Nixon and the collateral order doctrine. We express no opinion on whether the Vice President's notice of
appeal was timely filed.
Respondents' argument that the mandamus petition was
barred by laches does not withstand scrutiny. Laches might
bar a petition for a writ of mandamus if the petitioner "slept
upon his rights . . . , and especially if the delay has been
prejudicial to the [other party], or to the rights of other persons," Chapman v. County of Douglas, 107 U. S. 348, 355
(1883). Here, the flurry of activity following the District
Court's denial of the motion to dismiss overcomes respondents' argument that the Government neglected to assert its
rights. The Government filed, among other papers, a motion for a protective order on September 3; a motion to stay
pending appeal on October 21; and a motion for leave to
appeal pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 1292(b) on October 23. Even
were we to agree that the baseline for measuring the timeliness of the Government's mandamus petition was the
District Court's order denying the motion to dismiss, the
Government's active litigation posture was far from the neglect or delay that would make the application of laches
appropriate.
We do not accept, furthermore, respondents' argument
that laches should apply because the motions filed by the
Government following the District Court's denial of its motion to dismiss amounted to little more than dilatory tactics
to "delay and obstruct the proceedings." Brief for Respondent Sierra Club 23. In light of the drastic nature of mandamus and our precedents holding that mandamus may not
issue so long as alternative avenues of relief remain available, the Government cannot be faulted for attempting to
resolve the dispute through less drastic means. The law
does not put litigants in the impossible position of having to
exhaust alternative remedies before petitioning for mandamus, on the one hand, and having to file the mandamus petition at the earliest possible moment to avoid laches, on the

380

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

other. The petition was properly before the Court of Appeals for its consideration.
III
We now come to the central issue in the case-whether
the Court of Appeals was correct to conclude it "ha[d] no
authority to exercise the extraordinary remedy of mandamus," 334 F. 3d, at 1105, on the ground that the Government
could protect its rights by asserting executive privilege in
the District Court.
The common-law writ of mandamus against a lower court
is codified at 28 U. S. C. § 1651(a): "The Supreme Court and
all courts established by Act of Congress may issue all writs
necessary or appropriate in aid of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the usages and principles of law."
This is a "drastic and extraordinary" remedy "reserved for
really extraordinary causes." Ex parte Fahey, 332 U. S.
258, 259-260 (1947). "The traditional use of the writ in aid
of appellate jurisdiction both at common law and in the federal courts has been to confine [the court against which mandamus is sought] to a lawful exercise of its prescribed jurisdiction." Roche v. Evaporated Milk Assn., 319 U. S. 21, 26
(1943). Although courts have not "confined themselves to
an arbitrary and technical definition of 'jurisdiction,"' Will
v. United States, 389 U. S. 90, 95 (1967), "only exceptional
circumstances amounting to a judicial 'usurpation of power,'
ibid., or a "clear abuse of discretion," Bankers Life & Casualty Co. v. Holland, 346 U. S. 379, 383 (1953), "will justify the invocation of this extraordinary remedy," Will, 389
U. S., at 95.
As the writ is one of "the most potent weapons in the
judicial arsenal," id., at 107, three conditions must be satisfied before it may issue. Kerr v. United States Dist. Court
for Northern Dist. of Cal., 426. U. S. 394, 403 (1976). First,
"the party seeking issuance of the writ [must] have no other
adequate means to attain the relief he desires," ibid.-a condition designed to ensure that the writ will not be used as a

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of the Court

substitute for the regular appeals process, Fahey, supra, at
260. Second, the petitioner must satisfy "'the burden of
showing that [his] right to issuance of the writ is "clear and
indisputable.""' Kerr, supra, at 403 (quoting Bankers
Life & Casualty Co., supra, at 384). Third, even if the first
two prerequisites have been met, the issuing court, in the
exercise of its discretion, must be satisfied that the writ is
appropriate under the circumstances. Kerr, supra, at 403
(citing Schlagenhaufv. Holder,379 U.S. 104, 112, n. 8 (1964)).
These hurdles, however demanding, are not insuperable.
This Court has issued the writ to restrain a lower court when
its actions would threaten the separation of powers by "embarrass[ing] the executive arm of the Government," Ex parte
Peru, 318 U. S.578, 588 (1943), or result in the "intrusion
by the federal judiciary on a delicate area of federal-state
relations," Will, supra, at 95 (citing Maryland v. Soper
(No. 1), 270 U. S.9 (1926)).
Were the Vice President not a party in the case, the argument that the Court of Appeals should have entertained an
action in mandamus, notwithstanding the District Court's
denial of the motion for certification, might present different
considerations. Here, however, the Vice President and his
comembers on the NEPDG are the subjects of the discovery
orders. The mandamus petition alleges that the orders
threaten "substantial intrusions on the process by which
those in closest operational proximity to the President advise
the President." App. 343. These facts and allegations remove this case from the category of ordinary discovery orders where interlocutory appellate review is unavailable,
through mandamus or otherwise. It is well established that
"a President's communications and activities encompass a
vastly wider range of sensitive material than would be true
of any 'ordinary individual."' United States v. Nixon, 418
U. S., at 715. Chief Justice Marshall, sitting as a trial judge,
recognized the unique position of the Executive Branch when
he stated that "[i]n no case ... would a court be required to

382

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

proceed against the president as against an ordinary individual." United States v. Burr,25 F. Cas. 187, 192 (No. 14,694)
(CC Va. 1807). See also Clinton v. Jones, 520 U. S. 681, 698699 (1997) ("We have, in short, long recognized the 'unique
position in the constitutional scheme' that [the Office of the
President] occupies" (quoting Nixon v. Fitzgerald,457 U. S.
731, 749 (1982))); 520 U. S., at 710-724 (BREYER, J., concurring in judgment). As United States v. Nixon explained,
these principles do not mean that the "President is above the
law." 418 U. S., at 715. Rather, they simply acknowledge
that the public interest requires that a coequal, branch of
Government "afford Presidential confidentiality the greatest
protection consistent with the fair administration of justice,"
ibid., and give recognition to the paramount necessity of protecting the Executive Branch from vexatious litigation that
might distract it from the energetic performance of its constitutional duties.
These separation-of-powers considerations should inform a
court of appeals' evaluation of a mandamus petition involving
the President or the Vice President. Accepted mandamus
standards are broad enough to allow a court of appeals to
prevent a lower court from interfering with a coequal
branch's ability to discharge its constitutional responsibilities. See Ex parte Peru, supra, at 587 (recognizing jurisdiction to issue the writ because "the action of the political
arm of the Government taken within its appropriate sphere
[must] be promptly recognized, and.., delay and inconvenience of a prolonged litigation [must] be avoided by prompt
termination of the proceedings in the district court"); see
also Clinton v. Jones, supra, at 701 ("We have recognized
that '[e]ven when a branch does not arrogate power to itself ... the separation-of-powers doctrine requires that a
branch not impair another in the performance of its constitutional duties"' (quoting Loving v. United States, 517 U. S.
748, 757 (1996))).

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of the Court

IV
The Court of Appeals dismissed these separation-ofpowers concerns. Relying on United States v. Nixon, it
held that even though respondents' discovery requests are
overbroad and "go well beyond FACA's requirements," the
Vice President and his former colleagues on the NEPDG
"'shall bear the burden"' of invoking privilege with narrow
specificity and objecting to the discovery requests with "'detailed precision."' 334 F. 3d, at 1105-1106. In its view, this
result was required by Nixon's rejection of an "absolute, unqualified Presidential privilege of immunity from judicial
process under all circumstances." 418 U. S., at 706. If
Nixon refused to recognize broad claims of confidentiality
where the President had asserted executive privilege, the
majority reasoned, Nixon must have rejected, a fortiori,
petitioners' claim of discovery immunity where the privilege
has not even been invoked. According to the majority, because the Executive Branch can invoke executive privilege
to maintain the separation of powers, mandamus relief is
premature.
This analysis, however, overlooks fundamental differences
in the two cases. Nixon cannot bear the weight the Court
of Appeals puts upon it. First, unlike this case, which concerns respondents' requests for information for use in a civil
suit, Nixon involves the proper balance between the Executive's interest in the confidentiality of its communications and
the "constitutional need for production of relevant evidence
in a criminal proceeding." Id., at 713. The Court's decision
was explicit that it was "not ... concerned with the balance
between the President's generalized interest in confidentiality and the need for relevant evidence in civil litigation ....
We address only the conflict between the President's assertion of a generalized privilege of confidentiality and the constitutional need for relevant evidence in criminal trials."
Id., at 712, n. 19.

384

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

The distinction Nixon drew between criminal and civil
proceedings is not just a matter of formalism. As the Court
explained, the need for information in the criminal context
is much weightier because "our historic[al] commitment to
the rule of law.., is nowhere more profoundly manifest than
in our view that 'the twofold aim [of criminal justice] is that
guilt shall not escape or innocence suffer."' Id., at 708-709
(quoting Berger v. United States, 295 U. S. 78, 88 (1935)). In
light of the "fundamental" and "comprehensive" need for
"every man's evidence" in the criminal justice system, 418
U. S., at 709, 710, not only must the Executive Branch first
assert privilege to resist disclosure, but privilege claims that
shield information from a grand jury proceeding or a criminal trial are not to be "expansively construed, for they are
in derogation of the search for truth," id., at 710. The need
for information for use in civil cases, while far from negligible, does not share the urgency or significance of the criminal
subpoena requests in Nixon. As Nixon recognized, the
right to production of relevant evidence in civil proceedings
does not have the same "constitutional dimensions." Id.,
at 711.
The Court also observed in Nixon that a "primary constitutional duty of the Judicial Branch [is] to do justice in criminal prosecutions." Id., at 707. Withholding materials from
a tribunal in an ongoing criminal case when the information
is necessary to the court in carrying out its tasks "conflict[s]
with the function of the courts under Art. III." Ibid. Such
an impairment of the "essential functions of [another]
branch," ibid., is impermissible. Withholding the information in this case, however, does not hamper another branch's
ability to perform its "essential functions" in quite the same
way. Ibid. The District Court ordered discovery here, not
to remedy known statutory violations, but to ascertain
whether FACA's disclosure requirements even apply to the
NEPDG in the first place. Even if FACA embodies important congressional objectives, the only consequence from re-

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)

Opinion of the Court

spondents' inability to obtain the discovery they seek is that
it would be more difficult for private complainants to vindicate Congress' policy objectives under FACA. And even if,
for argument's sake, the reasoning in Judge Randolph's dissenting opinion in the end is rejected and FACA's statutory
objectives would be to some extent frustrated, it does not
follow that a court's Article III authority or Congress' central Article I powers would be impaired. The situation here
cannot, in fairness, be compared to Nixon, where a court's
ability to fulfill its constitutional responsibility to resolve
cases and controversies within its jurisdiction hinges on the
availability of certain indispensable information.
A party's need for information is only one facet of the
problem. An important factor weighing in the opposite direction is the burden imposed by the discovery orders. This
is not a routine discovery dispute. The discovery requests
are directed to the Vice President and other senior Government officials who served on the NEPDG to give advice and
make recommendations to the President. The Executive
Branch, at its highest level, is seeking the aid of the courts to
protect its constitutional prerogatives. As we have already
noted, special considerations control when the Executive
Branch's interests in maintaining the autonomy of its office
and safeguarding the confidentiality of its communications
are implicated. This Court has held, on more than one occasion, that "[t]he high respect that is owed to the office of the
Chief Executive ... is a matter that should inform the conduct of the entire proceeding, including the timing and scope
of discovery," Clinton, 520 U. S., at 707, and that the Executive's "constitutional responsibilities and status [are] factors
counseling judicial deference and restraint" in the conduct of
litigation against it, Nixon v. Fitzgerald, 457 U. S., at 753.
Respondents' reliance on cases that do not involve senior
members of the Executive Branch, see, e. g., Kerr v. United
States Dist. Court for Northern Dist. of Cal., 426 U. S. 394
(1976), is altogether misplaced.

386

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

Even when compared against United States v. Nixon's
criminal subpoenas, which did involve the President, the civil
discovery here militates against respondents' position. The
observation in Nixon that production of confidential information would not disrupt the functioning of the Executive
Branch cannot be applied in a mechanistic fashion to civil
litigation. In the criminal justice system, there are various
constraints, albeit imperfect, to filter out insubstantial legal
claims. The decision to prosecute a criminal case, for example, is made by a publicly accountable prosecutor subject to
budgetary considerations and under an ethical obligation, not
only to win and zealously to advocate for his client but also
to serve the cause of justice. The rigors of the penal system
are also mitigated by the responsible exercise of prosecutorial discretion. In contrast, there are no analogous checks
in the civil discovery process here. Although under Federal
Rule of Civil Procedure 11, sanctions are available, and.private attorneys also owe an obligation of candor to the judicial
tribunal, these safeguards have proved insufficient to discourage the filing of meritless claims against the Executive
Branch. "In view of the visibility of" the Offices of the
President and the Vice President and "the effect of [their]
actions on countless people," they are "easily identifiable target[s] for suits for civil damages." Nixon v. Fitzgerald,
supra, at 753.
Finally, the narrow subpoena orders in United States v.
Nixon stand on an altogether different footing from the
overly broad discovery requests approved by the District
Court in this case. The criminal subpoenas in Nixon were
required to satisfy exacting standards of "(1) relevancy;
(2) admissibility; (3) specificity." 418 U. S., at 700 (interpreting Fed. Rule Crim. Proc. 17(c)). They were "not intended
to provide a means of discovery." 418 U. S., at 698. The
burden of showing these standards were met, moreover, fell
on the party requesting the information. Id., at 699 ("[I]n
order to require production prior to trial, the moving party

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of the Court

must show [that the applicable standards are met]"). In
Nixon, the Court addressed the issue of executive privilege
only after having satisfied itself that the special prosecutor
had surmounted these demanding requirements. Id., at 698
("If we sustained this [Rule 17(c)] challenge, there would be
no occasion to reach the claim of privilege asserted with respect to the subpoenaed material"). The very specificity of
the subpoena requests serves as an important safeguard
against unnecessary intrusion into the operation of the Office
of the President.
In contrast to Nixon's subpoena orders that "precisely
identified" and "specific[ally] . . . enumerated" the relevant
materials, id., at 688, and n. 5, the discovery requests here,
as the panel majority acknowledged, ask for everything
under the sky:
"1. All documents identifying or referring to any staff,
personnel, contractors, consultants or employees of the
Task Force.
"2. All documents establishing or referring to any
Sub-Group.
"3. All documents identifying or referring to any staff,
personnel, contractors, consultants or employees of any
Sub-Group.
"4. All documents identifying or referring to any other
persons participating in the preparation of the Report
or in the activities of the Task Force or any Sub-Group.
"5. All documents concerning any communication relating to the activities of the Task Force, the activities of
any Sub-Groups, or the preparation of the Report ....
"6. All documents concerning any communication relating to the activities of the Task Force, the activities of
Sub-Groups, or the preparation of the Report between
any person ... and ra list of agencies]." App. 220-221.
The preceding excerpt from respondents' "First Request
for Production of Documents," id., at 215 (emphasis added),

388

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

is only the beginning. Respondents' "First Set of Interrogatories" are similarly unbounded in scope. Id., at 224.
Given the breadth of the discovery requests in this case compared to the narrow subpoena orders in United States v.
Nixon, our precedent provides no support for the proposition
that the Executive Branch "shall bear the burden" of invoking executive privilege with sufficient specificity and of making particularized objections. 334 K 3d, at 1105. To be
sure, Nixon held that the President cannot, through the assertion of a "broad [and] undifferentiated" need for confidentiality and the invocation of an "absolute, unqualified" executive privilege, withhold information in the face of subpoena
orders. 418 U. S., at 706, 707. It did so, however, only after
the party requesting the information-the special prosecutor-had satisfied his burden of showing the propriety of the
requests. Here, as the Court of Appeals acknowledged, the
discovery requests are anything but appropriate. They provide respondents all the disclosure to which they would be
entitled in the event they prevail on the merits, and much
more besides. In these circumstances, Nixon does not require -the Executive Branch to bear the onus of critiquing
the unacceptable discovery requests line by line. Our precedents suggest just the opposite. See, e. g., Clinton v. Jones,
520 U. S.681 (1997); id., at 705 (holding that the Judiciary
may direct "appropriate process" to the Executive); Nixon
v. Fitzgerald,457 U. S., at 753.
The Government, however, did in fact object to the scope
of discovery and asked the District Court to narrow it in
some way. Its arguments were ignored. See App. 167,
181-183 (arguing "this case can be resolved far short of the
wide-ranging inquiries plaintiffs have proposed" and suggesting alternatives to "limit]" discovery); id., at 232 ("Defendants object to the scope of plaintiffs' discovery requests
and to the undue burden imposed by them. The scope of
plaintiffs' requests is broader than that reasonably calculated
to lead to admissible evidence"); id., at 232, n. 10 ("We state

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of the Court

our general objections here for purposes of clarity for the
record and to preclude any later argument that, by not including them here, those general objections have been
waived"). In addition, the Government objected to the burden that would arise from the District Court's insistence that
the Vice President winnow the discovery orders by asserting
specific claims of privilege and making more particular objections. Id., at 201 (Tr. of Status Hearing (Aug. 2, 2002)) (noting "concerns with disrupting the effective functioning of the
presidency and the vice-presidency"); id., at 274 ("[C]ompliance with the order of the court imposes a burden on the
Office of the Vice President. That is a real burden. If we
had completed and done everything that Your Honor has
asked us to do today that burden would be gone, but it would
have been realized"). These arguments, too, were rejected.
See id., at 327, 329 (Nov. 1, 2002, Order) (noting that the
court had, "on numerous occasions," rejected the Government's assertion "that court orders requiring [it] to respond
in any fashion to [the] discovery requests creates an 'unconstitutional burden' on the Executive Branch").
Contrary to the District Court's and the Court of Appeals'
conclusions, Nixon does not leave them the sole option of
inviting the Executive Branch to invoke executive privilege
while remaining otherwise powerless to modify a party's
overly broad discovery requests. Executive privilege is an
extraordinary assertion of power "not to be lightly invoked."
United States v. Reynolds, 345 U. S. 1, 7 (1953). Once executive privilege is asserted, coequal branches of the Government are set on a collision course. The Judiciary is forced
into the difficult task of balancing the need for information
in a judicial proceeding and the Executive's Article II prerogatives. This inquiry places courts in the awkward position of evaluating the Executive's claims of confidentiality
and autonomy, and pushes to the fore difficult questions of
separation of powers and checks and balances. These "occasion[s] for constitutional confrontation between the two

390

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of the Court

branches" should be avoided whenever possible. United
States v. Nixon, supra, at 692.
In recognition of these concerns, there is sound precedent
in the District of Columbia itself for district courts to explore
other avenues, short of forcing the Executive to invoke privilege, when they are asked to enforce against the Executive
Branch unnecessarily broad subpoenas. In United States v.
Poindexter, 727 F. Supp. 1501 (1989), defendant Poindexter,
on trial for criminal charges, sought to have the District
Court enforce subpoena orders against President Reagan to
obtain allegedly exculpatory materials. The Executive considered the subpoenas "unreasonable and oppressive." Id.,
at 1503. Rejecting defendant's argument that the Executive must first assert executive privilege to narrow the subpoenas, the District Court agreed with the President that "it
is undesirable as a matter of constitutional and public policy
to compel a President to make his decision on privilege with
respect to a large array of documents." Ibid. The court
decided to narrow, on its own, the scope of the subpoenas to
allow the Executive "to consider whether to invoke executive privilege with respect to ...a possibly smaller number
of documents following the narrowing of the subpoenas."
Id., at 1504. This is but one example of the choices available
to the District Court and the Court of Appeals in this case.
As we discussed at the outset, under principles of mandamus jurisdiction, the Court of Appeals may exercise its
power to issue the writ only upon a finding of "exceptional
circumstances amounting to a judicial 'usurpation of power,'
Will, 389 U. S., at 95, or a "clear abuse of discretion," Bankers Life, 346 U. S., at 383. As this case implicates the separation of powers, the Court of Appeals must also ask, as part
of this inquiry, whether the District Court's actions constituted an unwarranted impairment of another branch in the
performance of its constitutional duties. This is especially
so here because the District Court's analysis of whether
mandamus relief is appropriate should itself be constrained

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of the Court

by principles similar to those we have outlined, supra, at
380-382, that limit the Court of Appeals' use of the remedy.
The panel majority, however, failed to ask this question. Instead, it labored under the mistaken assumption that the assertion of executive privilege is a necessary precondition to
the Government's separation-of-powers objections.
V
In the absence of overriding concerns of the sort discussed
in Schlagenhauf,379 U. S., at 111 (discussing, among other
things, the need to avoid "piecemeal litigation" and to settle
important issues of first impression in areas where this
Court bears special responsibility), we decline petitioners'
invitation to direct the Court of Appeals to issue the writ
against the District Court. Moreover, this is not a case
where, after having considered the issues, the Court of Appeals abused its discretion by failing to issue the writ. Instead, the Court of Appeals, relying on its mistaken reading
of United States v. Nixon, prematurely terminated its inquiry after the Government refused to assert privilege and
did so without even reaching the weighty separation-ofpowers objections raised in the case, much less exercised its
discretion to determine whether "the writ is appropriate
under the circumstances." Supra, at 381. Because the issuance of the writ is a matter vested in the discretion of the
court to which the petition is made, and because this Court
is not presented with an original writ of mandamus, see, e. g.,
Ex parte Peru, 318 U. S., at 586, we leave to the Court of
Appeals to address the parties' arguments with respect to
the challenge to AAPS and the discovery orders. Other
matters bearing on whether the writ of mandamus should
issue should also be addressed, in the first instance, by the
Court of Appeals after considering any additional briefs and
arguments as it deems appropriate. We note only that all
courts should be mindful of the burdens imposed on the Executive Branch in any future proceedings. Special consider-

392

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
STEVENS, J.,

concurring

ations applicable to the President and the Vice President
suggest that the courts should be sensitive to requests by
the Government for interlocutory appeals to reexamine, for
example, whether the statute embodies the de facto membership doctrine.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia is vacated, and the case is remanded for further
proceedings consistent with this opinion.
It is so ordered.
concurring.
Broad discovery should be encouraged when it serves the
salutary purpose of facilitating the prompt and fair resolution of concrete disputes. In the normal case, it is entirely
appropriate to require the responding party to make particularized objections to discovery requests. In some circumstances, however, the requesting party should be required to
assume a heavy burden of persuasion before any discovery
is allowed. Two interrelated considerations support taking
that approach in this case: the nature of the remedy respondents requested from the District Court, and the nature of
the statute they sought to enforce.
As relevant here, respondents, Judicial Watch, Inc., and
Sierra Club, sought a writ of mandamus under 28 U. S. C.
§ 1361. Mandamus is an extraordinary remedy, available to
"a plaintiff only if... the defendant owes him a clear nondiscretionary duty." Heckler v. Ringer, 466 U. S. 602, 616
(1984). Thus, to persuade the District Court that they were
entitled to mandamus relief, respondents had to establish
that petitioners had a nondiscretionary duty to comply with
the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), 5 U. S. C. App.
§ 1 et seq., p. 1, and in particular with FACA's requirement
that "records related to the advisory committee's work be
made public"-the only requirement still enforceable if, as
respondent Sierra Club concedes, the National Energy Policy Development Group (NEPDG) no longer exists. See JuJUSTICE STEVENS,

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
Opinion of

THOMAS,

J.

dicial Watch, Inc. v. National Energy Policy Dev. Group,
219 F. Supp. 2d 20, 42 (DC 2002). Relying on the Court of
Appeals' novel de facto member doctrine, ante, at 374, respondents sought to make that showing by obtaining the
very records to which they will be entitled if they win their
lawsuit. In other words, respondents sought to obtain,
through discovery, information about the NEPDG's work in
order to establish their entitlement to the same information.
Thus, granting broad discovery in this case effectively prejudged the merits of respondents' claim for mandamus relief-an outcome entirely inconsistent with the extraordinary nature of the writ. Under these circumstances, instead
of requiring petitioners to object to particular discovery requests, the District Court should have required respondents
to demonstrate that particular requests would tend to establish their theory of the case.* I therefore think it would
have been appropriate .for the Court of Appeals to vacate
the District Court's discovery order. I nevertheless join the
Court's opinion and judgment because, as the architect of
the de facto member doctrine, the Court of Appeals is the
appropriate forum to direct future proceedings in the case.
JUSTICE THOMAS, with whom JUSTICE SCALIA joins, concurring in part and dissenting in part.
I agree that "[t]he remedy of mandamus is a drastic one,
to be invoked only in extraordinary situations." Kerr v.
United States Dist. Court for Northern Dist. of Cal., 426
U. S. 394, 402 (1976). In framing our review of the Court of
Appeals' judgment, the Court recognizes this hurdle, observing that "the petitioner must satisfy 'the burden of showing
*A few interrogatories or depositions might have determined, for example, whether any non-Government employees voted on NEPDG recommendations or drafted portions of the committee's report. In my view,
only substantive participation of this nature would even arguably be sufficient to warrant classifying a non-Government employee as a defacto committee member.

394

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
Opinion of THOMAS, J.

that [his] right to issuance of the writ is clear and indisputable."' Ante, at 381 (quoting Kerr, supra, at 403 (internal
quotation marks omitted)). But in reaching its disposition,
the Court barely mentions the fact that respondents, Judicial
Watch, Inc., and Sierra Club, face precisely the same burden
to obtain relief from the District Court. The proper question presented to the Court of Appeals was not only whether
it is clear and indisputable that petitioners have a right to an
order "'vacat[ing] the discovery orders issued by the district
court, direct[ing] the court to decide the case on the basis of
the administrative record and such supplemental affidavits
as it may require, and direct[ing] that the Vice President be
dismissed as a defendant."' 334 F. 3d 1096, 1101 (CADC
2003) (quoting Emergency Pet. for Writ of Mandamus in
In re Cheney, in No. 02-5354 (CADC)). The question with
which the Court of Appeals was faced also necessarily had
to account for the fact that respondents sought mandamus
relief in the District Court. Because they proceeded by
mandamus, respondents had to demonstrate in the District
Court a clear and indisputable right to the Federal Advisory
Committee Act (FACA) materials. If respondents' right to
the materials was not clear and indisputable, then petitioners' right to relief in the Court of Appeals was clear.
One need look no further than the District Court's opinion
to conclude respondents' right to relief in the District Court
was unclear and hence that mandamus would be unavailable.
Indeed, the District Court acknowledged this Court's recognition "that applying FACA to meetings among Presidential
advisors 'present[s] formidable constitutional difficulties.'
Judicial Watch, Inc. v. National Energy Policy Dev. Group,
219 F. Supp. 2d 20, 47 (DC 2002) (quoting Public Citizen v.
Department of Justice, 491 U. S. 440, 466 (1989)).
Putting aside the serious constitutional questions raised
by respondents' challenge, the District Court could not even

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)

Opinion of THOMAS, J.

determine whether FACA applies to the National Energy
Policy Development Group (NEPDG) as a statutory matter.
219 F. Supp. 2d, at 54-55 (noting the possibility that, after
discovery, petitioners might prevail on summary judgment
on statutory grounds). I acknowledge that under the Court
of Appeals' de facto member doctrine, see Association of
American Physicians & Surgeons, Inc. v. Clinton, 997 F. 2d
898, 915 (CADC 1993), a district court is authorized to undertake broad discovery to determine whether FACA's Government employees exception, 5 U. S. C. App. § 3(2)(C)(i), p. 2,
applies. But, application of the de facto member doctrine
to authorize broad discovery into the inner workings of the
NEPDG has the same potential to offend the Constitution's
separation of powers as the actual application of FACA to
the NEPDG itself. 334 F. 3d, at 1114-1115 (Randolph, J.,
dissenting). Thus, the existence of this doctrine cannot support the District Court's actions here. If respondents must
conduct wide-ranging discovery in order to prove that they
have any right to relief-much less that they have a clear
and indisputable right to relief-mandamus is unwarranted,
and the writ should not issue.
Although the District Court might later conclude that
FACA applies to the NEPDG as a statutory matter and that
such application is constitutional, the mere fact that the District Court might rule in respondents' favor cannot establish
the clear right to relief necessary for mandamus. Otherwise, the writ of mandamus could turn into a freestanding
cause of action for plaintiffs seeking to enforce virtually any
statute, even those that provide no such private remedy.
Because the District Court clearly exceeded its authority
in this case, I would reverse the judgment of the Court of
Appeals and remand the case with instruction to issue the
writ.*
*I join Parts I, II, III, and IV of the Court's opinion.

396

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

JUSTICE GINSBURG, with whom JUSTICE SOUTER joins,
dissenting.
The Government, in seeking a writ of mandamus from the
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, and on brief
to this Court, urged that this case should be resolved without
any discovery. See App. 183-184, 339; Brief for Petitioners
45; Reply Brief 18. In vacating the judgment of the Court
of Appeals, however, this Court remands for consideration
whether mandamus is appropriate due to the overbreadth of
the District Court's discovery orders. See ante, at 372-373,
387-390. But, as the Court of Appeals observed, it appeared that the Government "never asked the district court
to narrow discovery." In re Cheney, 334 F. 3d 1096, 1106
(CADC 2003) (emphasis in original). Given the Government's decision to resist all discovery, mandamus relief based
on the exorbitance of the discovery orders is at least "premature," id., at 1104. I would therefore affirm the judgment
of the Court of Appeals denying the writ,' and allow the
District Court, in the first instance, to pursue its expressed
intention "tightly [to] rei[n] [in] discovery," 219 F. Supp. 2d
20, 54 (DC 2002), should the Government so request.

I
A
The discovery at issue here was sought in a civil action
filed by respondents Judicial Watch, Inc., and Sierra Club.

IThe Court of Appeals also concluded, altogether correctly in my view,
that it lacked ordinary appellate jurisdiction over the Vice President's appeal. See 334 F. 3d, at 1109; cf. ante, at 378-379 (leaving appellatejurisdiction question undecided). In its order addressing the petitioners'
motions to dismiss, the District Court stated "it would be premature and

inappropriate to determine whether" any relief could be obtained from
the Vice President.

Judicial Watch, Inc. v. National Energy Policy Dev.

Group, 219 F. Supp. 2d 20, 44 (DC 2002). Immediate review of an interlocutory ruling, allowed in rare cases under the collateral-order doctrine, is
inappropriate when an order is, as in this case, "inherently tentative" and

not "the final'word on the subject." Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. v. Mayacamas Corp., 485 U. S. 271, 277 (1988) (internal quotation marks omitted).

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

To gain information concerning the membership and operations of an energy-policy task force, the National Energy
Policy Development Group (NEPDG), respondents filed suit
under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), 5
U. S. C. App. § 1 et seq., p. 1; respondents named among the
defendants the Vice President and senior Executive Branch
officials. See App. 16-40, 139-154; ante, at 373-374. After
granting in part and denying in part the Government's motions to dismiss, see 219 F. Supp. 2d 20, the District Court
approved respondents' extensive discovery plan, which included detailed and far-ranging interrogatories and sweeping requests for production of documents, see App. to Pet.
for Cert. 51a; App. 215-230. In a later order, the District
Court directed the Government to "produce non-privileged
documents and a privilege log." App. to Pet. for Cert. 47a.
The discovery plan drawn by Judicial Watch and Sierra
Club was indeed "unbounded in scope." Ante, at 388; accord
334 F. 3d, at 1106. Initial approval of that plan by the District Court, however, was not given in stunning disregard of
separation-of-powers concerns. Cf. ante, at 387-391. In
the order itself, the District Court invited "detailed and precise object[ions]" to any of the discovery requests, and instructed the Government to "identify and explain... invocations of privilege with particularity." App. to Pet. for Cert.
51a. To avoid duplication, the District Court provided that
the Government could identify "documents or information
[responsive to the discovery requests] that [it] ha[d] already
released to [Judicial Watch or the Sierra Club] in different
fora." Ibid.2 Anticipating further proceedings concerning
discovery, the District Court suggested that the Government
could "submit [any privileged documents] under seal for the
court's consideration," or that "the court [could] appoint the
equivalent of a Special Master, maybe a retired judge," to
review allegedly privileged documents. App. 247.
2Government

agencies had produced some relevant documents in related Freedom of Information Act litigation. See 219 F. Supp. 2d, at 27.

398

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

The Government did not file specific objections; nor did it
supply particulars to support assertions of privilege. Instead, the Government urged the District Court to rule that
Judicial Watch and the Sierra Club could have no discovery
at all. See id., at 192 ("the governmen[t] position is that...
no discovery is appropriate"); id., at 205 (same); 334 F. 3d, at
1106 ("As far as we can tell, petitioners never asked the district court to narrow discovery to those matters [respondents] need to support their allegation that FACA applies to
the NEPDG." (emphasis in original)). In the Government's
view, "the resolution of the case ha[d] to flow from the administrative record" sans discovery. App. 192. Without
taking up the District Court's suggestion of that court's
readiness to rein in discovery, see 219 F. Supp. 2d, at 54, the
Government, on behalf of the Vice President, moved, unsuccessfully, for a protective order and for certification of an
interlocutory appeal pursuant to 28 U. S. C. § 1292(b). See
334 F. 3d, at 1100; see App. to Pet. for Cert. 47a (District
Court denial of protective order); 233 F. Supp. 2d 16 (DC
2002) (District Court denial of § 1292(b) certification).3 At
the District Court's hearing on the Government's motion for
a stay pending interlocutory appeal, the Government argued
that "the injury is submitting to discovery in the absence of
a compelling showing of need by the [respondents]." App.
316; see 230 F. Supp. 2d 12 (DC 2002) (District Court order
denying stay).
Despite the absence from this "flurry of activity," ante, at
379, of any Government motion contesting the terms of the
discovery plan or proposing a scaled-down substitute plan,
see 334 F. 3d, at 1106, this Court states that the Government
3 Section 1292(b) of Title 28 allows'a court of appeals, "in its discretion," to entertain an appeal from an interlocutory order "[wihen a district
judge ... shall be of the opinion that such order involves a controlling
question of law as to which there is substantial ground for difference of
opinion and that an immediate appeal from the order may materially advance the ultimate termination of the litigation."

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

"did in fact object to the scope of discovery and asked the
District Court to narrow it in some way," ante, at 388. In
support of this statement, the Court points to the Government's objections to the proposed discovery plan, its response to the interrogatories and production requests, and
its contention that discovery would be unduly burdensome.
See ante, at 388-389; App. 166-184, 201, 231-234, 274.
True, the Government disputed the definition of the term
"meeting" in respondents' interrogatories, and stated, in
passing, that "discovery should be [both] limited to written
interrogatories" and "limited in scope to the issue of membership." Id., at 179, 181, 233. 4 But as the Court of Appeals noted, the Government mentioned "excessive discovery" in support of.its plea to be shielded from any discovery.
334 F. 3d, at 1106. The Government argument that "the
burden of doing a document production is an unconstitutional
burden," App. 274, was similarly anchored. The Government so urged at a District Court hearing in which its underlying "position [was] that it's not going to produce anything,"
5
id., at 249.

4On limiting discovery to the issue of membership, the Court of Appeals

indicated its agreement. See 334 F. 3d, at 1106 ("[Respondents] have no
need for the names of all persons who participated in [NEPDGI's activities, nor a description of each person's role in the activities of [NEPDG].
They must discover only whether non-federal officials participated, and if
so, to what extent." (internal quotation marks, ellipsis, and brackets
omitted)).
I According to the Government, "24 boxes of materials [are] potentially
responsive to [respondents'] discovery requests .... The documents identified as likely to be responsive from those boxes .. are contained in approximately twelve boxes." App. 282-283. Each box "requires one to
two attorney days to review and prepare a rough privilege log. Following
that review, privilege logs must be finalized. Further, once the responsive emails are identified, printed, and numbered, [petitioners] expect that
the privilege review and logging process [will] be equally, if not more,
time-consuming, due to the expected quantity of individual emails." Id.,
at 284.

400

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

The Government's bottom line was firmly and consistently
that "review, limited to the administrative record, should
frame the resolution of this case." Id., at 181; accord id., at
179, 233. That administrative record would "consist of the
Presidential Memorandum establishing NEPDG, NEPDG's
public report, and the Office of the Vice President's response
to . . . Judicial Watch's request for permission to attend
NEPDG meetings"; it would not include anything respondents could gain through discovery. Id., at 183. Indeed, the
Government acknowledged before the District Court that its
litigation strategy involved opposition to the discovery plan
as a whole in lieu of focused objections. See id., at 205 (Government stated: "We did not choose to offer written objections to [the discovery plan] . .

").

Further sounding the Government's leitmotif, in a hearing
on the proposed discovery plan, the District Court stated
that the Government "didn't file objections" to rein in discovery "because [in the Government's view] no discovery is
appropriate." Id., at 192; id., at 205 (same). Without endeavoring to correct any misunderstanding on the District
Court's part, the Government underscored its resistance to
any and all discovery. Id., at 192-194; id., at 201 (asserting
that respondents are "not entitled to discovery to supplement [the administrative record]"). And in its motion for a
protective order, the Government similarly declared its unqualified opposition to discovery. See Memorandum in Support of Defendants' Motion for a Protective Order and for
Reconsideration, C. A. Nos. 01-1530 (EGS), 02-631 (EGS),
p. 21 (D. D. C., Sept. 3, 2002) ("[Petitioners] respectfully request that the Court enter a protective order relieving them
of any obligationto respond to [respondents'] discovery [re6
quests]." (emphasis added)); see 334 F. 3d, at 1106 (same).
6

The agency petitioners, in responses to interrogatories, gave rote and
hardly illuminating responses refusing "on the basis of executive and deliberative process privileges" to be more forthcoming. See, e.g., Defendant Department of Energy's Response to Plaintiffs' First Set of Interroga-

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

The District Court, in short, "ignored" no concrete pleas
to "narrow" discovery. But see ante, at 388-390. That
court did, however, voice its concern about the Government's
failure to heed the court's instructions:
"I told the government, if you have precise constitutional objections, let me know what they are so I can
determine whether or not this [discovery] plan is appropriate, and ...you said, well, it's unconstitutional, without elaborating. You said, because Plaintiffs' proposed
discovery plan has not been approved by the court, the
Defendants are not submitting specific objections to
Plaintiffs' proposed request.... My rule was, if you have
objections, let me know what the objections are, and you
chose not to do so." App. 205.
B
Denied § 1292(b) certification by the District Court, the
Government sought a writ of mandamus from the Court of
Appeals. See id., at 339-365. In its mandamus petition,
the Government asked the appellate court to "vacate the discovery orders issued by the district court, direct the court
to decide the case on the basis of the administrative record
and such supplemental affidavits as it may require, and direct that the Vice President be dismissed as a defendant."
Id., at 364-365. In support of those requests, the Government again argued that the case should be adjudicated without discovery: "The Constitution and principles of comity
preclude discovery of the President or Vice President, especially without a demonstration of compelling and focused
countervailing interest." Id., at 360.
The Court of Appeals acknowledged that the discovery
plan presented by respondents and approved by the District
tories, C. A. Nos. 01-1530 (EGS), 02-631 (EGS) (D. D. C., Sept. 3, 2002);
Defendant United States Office of Management and Budget's Response to
Plaintiffs' First Set of Interrogatories, C. A. Nos. 01-1530 (EGS), 02-631
(EGS) (D.D. C., Sept. 3, 2002).

402

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

Court "goes well beyond what [respondents] need." 334
F. 3d, at 1106. The appellate court nevertheless denied
the mandamus petition, concluding that the Government's
separation-of-powers concern "remain[ed] hypothetical."
Id., at 1105. Far from ordering immediate "disclosure of
communications between senior executive branch officials
and those with information relevant to advice that was being
formulated for the President," the Court of Appeals observed, the District Court had directed the Government initially to produce only "non-privileged documents and a privilege log." Id., at 1104 (citation and internal quotation marks
omitted); see App. to Pet. for Cert. 47a.1
The Court of Appeals stressed that the District Court
could accommodate separation-of-powers concerns short of
denying all discovery or compelling the invocation of executive privilege. See 334 F. 3d, at 1105-1106. Principally, the
Court of Appeals stated, discovery could be narrowed,
should the Government so move, to encompass only
"whether non-federal officials participated [in NEPDG], and
if so, to what extent." Id., at 1106. The Government could
identify relevant materials produced in other litigation, thus
avoiding undue reproduction. Id., at 1105; see App. to Pet.
for Cert. 51a; supra, at 397. If, after appropriate narrowing, the discovery allowed still impels "the Vice President...
to claim privilege," the District Court could "entertain
[those] privilege claims" and "review allegedly privileged
documents in camera." 334 F. 3d, at 1107. Mindful of "the
judiciary's responsibility to police the separation of powers
in litigation involving the executive," the Court of Appeals
7The Court suggests that the appeals court "labored under the mistaken

assumption that the assertion of executive privilege is a necessary precondition to the Government's separation-of-powers objections." Ante, at
391. The Court of Appeals, however, described the constitutional concern
as "hypothetical," not merely because no executive privilege had been
asserted, but also in light of measures the District Court could take to
"narrow" and "carefully focu[s]" discovery. See 334 F. 3d, at 1105, 1107.

Cite as: 542 U. S. 367 (2004)
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

expressed confidence that the District Court would "respond
to petitioners' concern and narrow discovery to ensure that
[respondents] obtain no more than they need to prove their
case." Id., at 1106.
II
"This Court repeatedly has observed that the writ of mandamus is an extraordinary remedy, to be reserved for extraordinary situations." Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. v.
Mayacamas Corp., 485 U. S. 271, 289 (1988) (citing Kerr v.
United States Dist. Court for Northern Dist. of Cal., 426
U. S.394, 402 (1976)); see ante, at 380-381 (same). As the
Court reiterates, "the party seeking issuance of the writ
[must] have no other adequate means to attain the relief he
desires." Kerr,426 U. S., at 403 (citing Roche v. Evaporated
Milk Assn., 319 U. S. 21, 26 (1943)); ante, at 380-381.
Throughout this litigation, the Government has declined
to move for reduction of the District Court's discovery order
to accommodate separation-of-powers concerns. See supra,
at 398-402. The Court now remands this case so the Court
of Appeals can consider whether a mandamus writ should
issue ordering the District Court to "explore other avenues,
*short of forcing the Executive to invoke privilege," and, in
particular, to "narrow, on its own, the scope of [discovery]."
Ante, at 390. Nothing in the District Court's orders or the
Court of Appeals' opinion, however, suggests that either
of those courts would refuse reasonably to accommodate
separation-of-powers concerns. See supra,at 397, 398, 401402, and this page. When parties seeking a mandamus writ
decline to avail themselves of opportunities to obtain relief
from the District Court, a writ of mandamus ordering the
same relief-i. e., here, reined-in discovery-is surely a
doubtful proposition.
The District Court, moreover, did not err in failing to narrow discovery on its own initiative. Although the Court
cites United States v. Poindexter, 727 F. Supp. 1501 (DC
1989), as "sound precedent" for district-court narrowing of

404

CHENEY v. UNITED STATES DIST. COURT FOR D. C.
GINSBURG,

J., dissenting

discovery, see ante, at 390, the target of the subpoena in
that case, former President Reagan, unlike petitioners in this
case, affirmatively requested such narrowing, 727 F. Supp.,
at 1503. A district court is not subject to criticism if it
awaits a party's motion before tightening the scope of discovery; certainly, that court makes no "clear and indisputable"
error in adhering to the principle of party initiation, Kerr,
8
426 U. S., at 403 (internal quotation marks omitted).
8

The Court also questions the District Court's invocation of the federal
mandamus statute, 28 U. S. C. § 1361, which provides that "[t]he district
courts shall have original jurisdiction of any action in the nature of mandamus to compel an officer or employee of the United States or any agency
thereof to perform a duty owed to the plaintiff." See ante, at 390-391;
219 F. Supp. 2d, at 41-44. See also Chandlerv. Judicial Council of Tenth
Circuit, 398 U. S.74, 87-89, and n.8 (1970) (holding mandamus under the
All Writs Act, 28 U. S. C. § 1651, improper, but expressing no opinion on
relief under the federal mandamus statute, § 1361). On the question
whether § 1361 allows enforcement of the FACA against the Vice President, the District Court concluded it "would be premature and inappropriate to determine whether the relief of mandamus will or will not issue."
219 F. Supp. 2d, at 44. The Government, moreover, contested the propriety of § 1361 relief only in passing in its petition to the appeals court for
§ 1651 mandamus relief. See App. 363-364 (Government asserted in its
mandamus petition: "The more general writ of mandamus cannot be used
to circumvent ...limits on the provision directly providing for review of
administrative action."). A question not decided by the District Court,
and barely raised in a petition for mandamus, hardly qualifies as grounds
for "drastic and extraordinary" mandamus relief, Ex parte Fahey,332 U. S.
258, 259-260 (1947).
JUSTICE THOMAS urges that respondents cannot obtain § 1361 relief if
"wide-ranging discovery [is needed] to prove that they have any right to
relief." Ante, at 395 (opinion concurring in part and dissenting in part)
(emphasis in original). First, as the Court of Appeals recognized, see
supra, at 402-403; infra, at 405, should the Government so move, the
District Court could contain discovery so that it would not be "wideranging." Second, all agree that an applicant seeking a § 1361 mandamus
writ must show that "the [federal] defendant owes him a clear nondiscretionary duty." Heckler v. Ringer, 466 U. S.602, 616 (1984) (emphasis
added). No § 1361 writ may issue, in other words, when federal law
grants discretion to the federal officer, rather than imposing a duty on
him. When federal law imposes an obligation, however, suit under § 1361

