OCTOBER TERM, 2000
Syllabus

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN TOOL
GROUP, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 99-2035.

Argued February 26, 2001-Decided May 14, 2001

Respondent Leatherman Tool Group, Inc., manufactures a multifunction
tool which improves on the classic Swiss army knife. When petitioner
Cooper Industries, Inc., used photographs of a modified version of
Leatherman's tool in posters, packaging, and advertising materials
introducing a competing tool, Leatherman filed this action asserting,
inter alia, violations of the Trademark Act of 1946 (Lanham Act).
Ultimately, a trial jury awarded Leatherman $50,000 in compensatory
damages and $4.5 million in punitive damages. Rejecting Cooper's arguments that the punitive damages were grossly excessive under BMW
of North America, Inc. v. Gore, 517 U. S. 559, the District Court entered
judgment. As relevant here, the Ninth Circuit affirmed the punitive
damages award, concluding that the District Court did not abuse its
discretion in declining to reduce that award.
Hel& Courts of Appeals should apply a de novo standard when reviewing
district court determinations of the constitutionality of punitive damages awards. The Ninth Circuit erred in applying the less demanding
abuse-of-discretion standard in this case. Pp. 432-443.
(a) Compensatory damages redress the concrete loss that a plaintiff
has suffered by reason of the defendant's wrongful conduct, but punitive
damages are private fines intended to punish the defendant and deter
future wrongdoing. A jury's assessment of the former is essentially a
factual determination, but its imposition of the latter is an expression
of its moral condemnation. States have broad discretion in imposing
criminal penalties and punitive damages. Thus, when no constitutional
issue is raised, a federal appellate court reviews the trial court's determination under an abuse-of-discretion standard. Browning-Ferris
Industries of Vt., Inc. v. Kelco Disposal,Inc., 492 U. S. 257,279. However, the Fourteenth Amendments Due Process Clause imposes
substantive limits on the States' discretion, making the Eighth Amendment's prohibition against excessive fines and cruel and unusual punishments applicable to the States, Furman v. Georgia,408 U. S. 238, and
prohibiting States from imposing "grossly excessive" punishments on
tortfeasors, e. g., Gore, 517 U. S., at 562. The cases in which such limits

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
Syllabus
were enforced involved constitutional violations predicated on judicial
determinations that the punishments were grossly disproportional to
the gravity of the offense. E. g., United States v. Bajakajian,524 U. S.
321, 334. The relevant constitutional line is inherently imprecise, id.,
at 336, but, in deciding whether that line has been crossed, this Court
has focused on the same three criteria: (1) the degree of the defendant's
reprehensibility or culpability; (2) the relationship between the penalty
and the harm to the victim caused by the defendant's actions; and (3) the
sanctions imposed in other cases for comparable misconduct. See, e. g.,
Gore, 517 U. S., at 575-585; Bajakajian,524 U. S., at 337, 339, 340-343.
Moreover, and of greatest relevance for the instant issue, in each case
the Court has engaged in an independent examination of the relevant
criteria. See, e. g., id., at 337-344; Gore, 517 U. S., at 575-586. The
reasons supporting the Court's holding in Ornelas v. United States, 517
U. S. 690, that trial judges' reasonable suspicion and probable cause determinations should be reviewed de novo-that "reasonable suspicion"
and "probable cause" are fluid concepts that take their substantive content from the particular contexts in which the standards are being expressed; that, because such concepts acquire content only through caseby-case application, independent review is necessary if appellate courts
are to maintain control of, and clarify, legal principles; and that de novo
review tends to unify precedent and stabilize the law-are equally applicable when passing on district court determinations of the constitutionality of punitive damages awards. Pp. 432-436.
(b) Because a jury's award of punitive damages is not a finding
of "fact," appellate review of the District Court's determination
that an award is consistent with due process does not implicate the
Seventh Amendment concerns raised by Leatherman and its amici.
Pp. 437-440.
(c) It seems likely in this case that a thorough, independent review
of the District Court's rejection of Cooper's due process objections to
the punitive damages award might have led the Ninth Circuit to reach
a different result. In fact, this Court's own consideration of the three
Gore factors reveals questionable conclusions by the District Court that
may not survive de novo review and illustrates why the Ninth Circuit's
answer to the constitutional question may depend on the standard of
review. Pp. 441-443.
205 F. 3d 1351, vacated and remanded.
STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which REHNQUIST,
C. J., and O'CoNNoR, KENNEDY, SOUTER, THOmAS, and BREYER, JJ.,
joined. THOMAS, J., filed a concurring opinion, post, p. 443. ScALA, J.,

426

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

filed an opinion concurring in the judgment, post, p. 443. GINSBURG, J.,
filed a dissenting opinion, post, p. 444.

William Bradford Reynolds argued the cause for petitioner. With him on the briefs was Bradley J. Schlozman.
Jonathan S. Massey argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief were Laurence H. Tribe, J. Peter
Staples, and Thomas C. Goldstein.*
delivered the opinion of the Court.
A jury found petitioner guilty of unfair competition and
awarded respondent $50,000 in compensatory damages and
$4.5 million in punitive damages. The District Court held
that the punitive damages award did not violate the Federal
Constitution. The Court of Appeals concluded that "the district court did not abuse its discretion in declining to reduce
the amount of punitive damages." App. to Pet. for Cert. 4a.
The issue in this case is whether the Court of Appeals applied the wrong standard of review in considering the constitutionality of the punitive damages award.
JUSTICE STEVENS

*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for American Home
Products Corp. et al. by Walter E. Dellingerand John F. Daum; for General Dynamics Corp. by S. Thomas Todd; and for the Product Liability
Advisory Council, Inc., by Griffin B. Bell, Chilton Davis Varner, Paul
D. Clement, and Jeffrey S. Bucholtz.
Jeffrey Robert White and FrederickM. Baron filed a brief for the Association of Trial Lawyers of America as amicus curiae urging affrnance.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the Alliance of American Insurers
et al. by Richard Hodyl, Jr.; for the American Tort Reform Association
et al. by Victor E. Schwartz, Mark A Behrens, LeahLorber,JanS. Amundson, J V Schwan, David F Zoll, Donald D. Evans, Jeffrey L. Gabardi,
and Louis Saccoccio; for the Association of American Railroads by Carter
G. Phillips, Gene C. Schaerr,Stephen B. Kinnaird,and Daniel Saphire;
for the California Employment Law Council et al. by William J Kilberg
and Thomas G. Hungar; for the Chamber of Commerce of the United
States by Andrew L. Frey, Evan M. Tager, and Robin S. Conrad;for the
Washington Legal Foundation et al. by Arvin Maskin, Daniel J Popeo,
and Paul D. Kamenar; and for Arthur F. McEvoy by Kenneth Chesebro
and Mr. McEvoy, pro se.

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

I

The parties are competing tool manufacturers. In the
1980's, Leatherman Tool Group, Inc. (Leatherman or respondent), introduced its Pocket Survival Tool (PST). The
Court of Appeals described the PST as an
"ingenious multi-function pocket tool which improves
on the classic 'Swiss army knife' in a number of respects.
Not the least of the improvements was the inclusion
of pliers, which, when unfolded, are nearly equivalent
to regular full-sized pliers .... Leatherman apparently

largely created and undisputedly now dominates the
market for multi-function pocket tools which generally
resemble the PST." Leatherman Tool Group, Inc. v.
Cooper Industries,199 F. 3d 1009, 1010 (CA9 1999).
In 1995, Cooper Industries, Inc. (Cooper or petitioner),
decided to design and market a competing multifunction tool.
Cooper planned to copy the basic features of the PST, add a
few features of its own, and sell the new tool under the name
"ToolZall." Cooper hoped to capture about 5% of the multifunction tool market. The first ToolZall was designed to be
virtually identical to the PST,' but the design was ultimately
modified in response to this litigation. The controversy to
be resolved in this case involves Cooper's improper advertising of its original ToolZall design.
Cooper introduced the original ToolZall in August 1996
at the National Hardware Show in Chicago. At that show,
it used photographs in its posters, packaging, and advertising materials that purported to be of a ToolZall but were
actually of a modified PST. When those materials were prepared, the first of the ToolZalls had not yet been manufac'The ToolZall was marked with a different name than the PST, was
held together with different fasteners, and, in the words of the Court
of Appeals, "included a serrated blade and certain other small but not
particularly visible differences." Leatherman Tool Group, Inc. v. Cooper
Industries, 199 F. 3d 1009, 1010 (CA9 1999).

428

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

tured. A Cooper employee created a ToolZall "mock-up" by
grinding the Leatherman trademark from handles and pliers
of a PST and substituting the unique fastenings that were to
be used on the ToolZall. At least one of the photographs
was retouched to remove a curved indentation where the
Leatherman trademark had been. The photographs were
used, not only at the trade show, which normally draws
an audience of over 70,000 people, but also in the marketing materials and catalogs used by Cooper's sales force
throughout the United States. Cooper also distributed a
touched-up line 2drawing of a PST to its international sales
representatives.
Shortly after the trade show, Leatherman filed this action
asserting claims of trade-dress infringement, unfair competition, and false advertising under §43(a) of the Trademark
Act of 1946 (Lanham Act), 60 Stat. 441, as amended, 15
U. S. C. § 1125(a) (1994 ed. and Supp. V), and a common-law
claim of unfair competition for advertising and selling an
"imitation" of the PST. In December 1996, the District
Court entered a preliminary injunction prohibiting Cooper
from marketing the ToolZall and from using pictures of the
modified PST in its advertising. Cooper withdrew the original ToolZall from the market and developed a new model
with plastic coated handles that differed from the PST. In
November 1996, it had anticipatorily sent a notice to its
sales personnel ordering a recall of all promotional materials
containing pictures of the PST, but it did not attempt to retrieve the materials it had sent to its customers until the
following April. As a result, the offending promotional materials continued to appear in catalogs and advertisements
well into 1997.
After a trial conducted in October 1997, the jury returned a verdict that answered several special interrogato2

To "create" the drawing, a Cooper manager photocopied a line-art
drawing of a PST and then "whited out" Leatherman's trademark. App.
43-47.

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)

Opinion of the Court

ries. With respect to the Lanham Act infringement claims,
the jury found that Leatherman had trademark rights in the
overall appearance of the PST and that the original ToolZall infringed those rights but that the infringement had
not damaged Leatherman. It then found that the modified
ToolZall did not infringe Leatherman's trademark rights in
the PST. With respect to the advertising claims, it found
Cooper guilty of passing off, false advertising, and unfair
competition and assessed aggregate damages of $50,000 on
those claims. It then answered "Yes" to the following
interrogatory:
"Has Leatherman shown by clear and convincing evidence that by engaging in false advertising or passing
off, Cooper acted with malice, or showed a reckless and
outrageous indifference to a highly unreasonable risk
of harm and has acted with a conscious indifference to
Leatherman's rights?" App. 18.
Because it answered this question in the affirmative, the
jury was instructed to determine the "amount of punitive
damages [that] should be awarded to Leatherman." Ibid.
The jury awarded $4.5 million. Ibid.
After the jury returned its verdict, the District Court
considered, and rejected, arguments that the punitive damages were "grossly excessive" under our decision in BMW
of North America, Inc. v. Gore, 517 U. S. 559 (1996). See
App. to Pet. for Cert. 24a. It then entered its judgment,
which provided that 60% of the punitive damages would be
paid to the Criminal Injuries Compensation Account of the
State of Oregon. The judgment also permanently enjoined
Cooper from marketing its original ToolZall in the United
States or in 22 designated foreign countries.
On appeal, Cooper challenged both the District Court's
injunction against copying the PST and the punitive damages award. The Court of Appeals issued two opinions. In
its published opinion it set aside the injunction. Leather-

430

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

man Tool Group, Inc. v. Cooper Industries,Inc., supra. It
held that the overall appearance of the PST was not protected under the trademark laws because its distinguishing
features, and the combination of those features, were functional. Accordingly, even though Cooper had deliberately
3
copied the PST, it acted lawfully in doing so.
In its unpublished opinion, the Court of Appeals affirmed
the punitive damages award. It first rejected Cooper's argument that the Oregon Constitution, which has been interpreted to prohibit awards of punitive damages for torts
that impose liability for speech, precluded the jury's award
of such damages in this case. It then reviewed the District
Court's finding that the award "was proportional and fair,
given the nature of the conduct, the evidence of intentional
passing off, and the size of an award necessary to create deterrence to an entity of Cooper's size" and concluded "that
the award did not violate Cooper's due process rights" under
the Federal Constitution. App. to Pet. for Cert. 3a, judgt.
order reported at 205 F. 3d 1351 (CA9 1999). It noted that
the "passing off" in this case was "very unusual" because
"even assuming PST is a superior product," no superior
features of the PST were perceivable in the photographs.
App. to Pet. for Cert. 3a. "Any customer who bought based
on what the photographs showed would have received essentially that for which he or she paid." Ibid. Thus, Cooper's
use of the photographs of the PST did not involve "the
3Because this holding removed the predicate for the award of fees
under the Lanham Act, see n. 2, supra,the Court of Appeals set aside that
award and directed the District Court, on remand, to consider whether
the evidence of passing off, standing alone, was sufficient to warrant a fee
award. The Court of Appeals noted that the jury verdict form did not
distinguish between passing off as a Lanham Act claim and passing off as
a matter of state law. Although a fee award under §35(a) could not be
supported unless the federal statute was violated, there is no reason to
believe that any possible difference between federal and state passing off
would affect the constitutionality of the punitive damages award.

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)

Opinion of the Court

same sort of potential harm to Leatherman or to customers
as that which may arise from traditional passing off." Id.,
at 4a. The Court of Appeals made clear, however, that it
did not condone the passing off. "[A]t a minimum," it observed, "[the passing off] gave Cooper an unfair advantage"
by allowing it to use Leatherman's work product "to obtain a 'mock-up' more cheaply, easily, and quickly" than if it
had waited until its own product was ready. Ibid. Accordingly, the Court of Appeals concluded, "the district court
did not abuse its discretion in declining to reduce the amount
of punitive damages." Ibid.
Cooper's petition for a writ of certiorari asked us to decide
whether the Court of Appeals reviewed the constitutionality
of the punitive damages award under the correct standard
and also whether the award violated the criteria we articulated in Gore. We granted the petition to resolve confusion
among the Courts of Appeals on the first question. 4 531
U. S. 923 (2000). We now conclude that the constitutional
issue merits de novo review. Because the Court of Appeals
applied an "abuse of discretion" standard, we remand the
case for determination of the second question under the
proper standard.
4

Respondent and its amicus at times appear to conflate the question
of the proper standard for reviewing the District Court's due process
determination with the question of the substantive standard for deter-

mining the jury award's conformity with due process in the first instance.
See Brief for Arthur F. McEvoy as Amicus Curiae 13 ("[On appeal the
litigant's objection to the substance of the jury's holding-whether on
liability or damages-should be evaluated under a 'rational factfinder'

standard.. ."); Brief for Respondent 13. The former is the question we
agreed to review. The latter question has already been answered in

BMW of North America, Inc. v. Gore, 517 U.S. 559 (1996). Thus, our
rejection in TXO Production Corp. v. Alliance Resources Corp., 509 U. S.

443 (1993), of "heightened scrutiny" of punitive damages awards, see id.,
at 456, is not only wholly consistent with our decision today, it is irrelevant
to our resolution of the question presented.

432

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

II

Although compensatory damages and punitive damages
are typically awarded at the same time by the same decisionmaker, they serve distinct purposes. The former are intended to redress the concrete loss that the plaintiff has
suffered by reason of the defendant's wrongful conduct.
See Restatement (Second) of Torts §903, pp. 453-454 (1979);
Pacific Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Haslip, 499 U. S. 1, 54 (1991)
(O'CONNOR, J., dissenting). The latter, which have been described as "quasi-criminal," id., at 19, operate as "private
fines" intended to punish the defendant and to deter future
wrongdoing. A jury's assessment of the extent of a plaintiff's injury is essentially a factual determination, whereas
its imposition of punitive damages is an expression of its
moral condemnation. See Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., 418
U. S.323, 350 (1974) ("[Punitive damages] are not compensation for injury. Instead, they are private fines levied by
civil juries to punish reprehensible conduct and to deter its
future occurrence"); Haslip, 499 U. S., at 54 (O'CONNOR, J.,

dissenting) ("[P]unitive damages are specifically designed to
exact punishment in excess of actual harm to make clear that
the defendant's misconduct was especially reprehensible"). 5
Legislatures have extremely broad discretion in defining
criminal offenses, Schal v. Martin, 467 U. S.253, 268-269,
n. 18 (1984), and in setting the range of permissible punishments for each offense, ibid.; Solem v. Helm, 463 U. S.277,
290 (1983). Judicial decisions that operate within these legislatively enacted guidelines are typically reviewed for abuse
of discretion. See, e. g., Koon v. United States, 518 U. S.81,
96, 99-100 (1996); cf. Apprendi v. New Jersey, 530 U. S. 466,
481 (2000) (it is permissible "for judges to exercise disr See also Sunstein, Kahneman, & Schkade, Assessing Punitive Damages
(With Notes on Cognition and Valuation in Law), 107 Yale L. J. 2071, 2074
(1998) ("[Plunitive damages may have a retributive or expressive function,
designed to embody social outrage at the action of serious wrongdoers").

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

cretion... in imposing a judgment within the range prescribed by statute").
As in the criminal sentencing context, legislatures enjoy
broad discretion in authorizing and limiting permissible punitive damages awards. Cf. Gore, 517 U. S., at 568 ("States
necessarily have considerable flexibility in determining the
level of punitive damages that they will allow in different
classes of cases and in any particular case"). A good many
States have enacted statutes that place limits on the permissible size of punitive damages awards.6 When juries make
particular awards within those limits, the role of the trial
judge is "to determine whether the jury's verdict is within
the confines set by state law, and to determine, by reference
to federal standards developed under Rule 59, whether a new
trial or remittitur should be ordered." Browning-Ferris
Industries of Vt., Inc. v. Kelco Disposal, Inc., 492 U. S. 257,
279 (1989). If no constitutional issue is raised, the role of
the appellate court, at least in the federal system, is merely
to review the trial court's "determination under an abuse-ofdiscretion standard." Ibid.7
Despite the broad discretion that States possess with respect to the imposition of criminal penalties and punitive
damages, the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution imposes substantive limits
on that discretion. That Clause makes the Eighth Amendment's prohibition against excessive fines and cruel and
6See Gore, 517 U. S., at 614-619 (GiNSBURG, J., dissenting). Since our
decision in Gore, four additional States have added punitive damages caps:
Alabama, Alaska, North Carolina, and Ohio. See Ala. Code §6-11-21
(Supp. 2000); Alaska Stat. Ann. § 09.17.020 (2000); N. C. Gen. Stat. § 1D-25
(1999); Ohio Rev. Code Ann. §2315.21 (Supp. 2000).
7In Browning-Ferris,the petitioner did argue that the award violated
the Excessive Fines Clause of the Eighth Amendment, but we held the
Clause inapplicable to punitive damages. The petitioner's reliance on
the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment was unavailing
because that argument had not been raised in the District Court, the
Court of Appeals, or the certiorari petition. See 492 U. S., at 276-277.

434

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

unusual punishments applicable to the States. Furman v.
Georgia,408 U. S. 238 (1972) (percuriam). The Due Process Clause of its own force also prohibits the States from
imposing "grossly excessive" punishments on tortfeasors,
Gore, 517 U. S., at 562; TXO Production Corp. v. Alliance
Resources Corp., 509 U. S. 443, 453-455 (1993) (plurality
opinion).
The Court has enforced those limits in cases involving
deprivations of life, Enmund v. Florida,458 U. S. 782, 787,
801 (1982) (death is not "a valid penalty under the Eighth
and Fourteenth Amendments for one who neither took life,
attempted to take life, nor intended to take life"); Coker
v. Georgia, 433 U. S. 584, 592 (1977) (opinion of White, J.)
(sentence of death is "grossly disproportionate" and excessive punishment for the crime of rape); 8 deprivations of
liberty, Solem v. Helm, 463 U. S., at 279, 303 (life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for nonviolent felonies is "significantly disproportionate"); and deprivations
of property, United States v. Bajakajian,524 U. S. 321, 324
(1998) (punitive forfeiture of $357,144 for violating reporting
requirement was "grossly disporportional" to the gravity of
the offense); Gore, 517 U. S., at 585-586 ($2 million punitive
damages award for failing to advise customers of minor predelivery repairs to new automobiles was "grossly excessive"
and therefore unconstitutional).
In these cases, the constitutional violations were predicated on judicial determinations that the punishments were
"grossly disproportional to the gravity of ... defendant[s']
offense[s]." Bajakajian,524 U. S., at 334; see also Gore, 517
U. S., at 585-586; Solem, 463 U. S., at 303; Coker, 433 U. S.,
at 592 (opinion of White, J.). We have recognized that the
relevant constitutional line is "inherently imprecise," Ba8

Although disagreeing with the specific holding in Coker, Chief Justice
Burger and then-JusucE REHNQUIST accepted the proposition that the
"concept of disproportionality bars the death penalty for minor crimes."
433 U. S., at 604 (Burger, C. J., dissenting).

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

jakajian, 524 U. S., at 336, rather than one "marked by a
simple mathematical formula," Gore, 517 U. S., at 582. But
in deciding whether that line has been crossed, we have focused on the same general criteria: the degree of the defendant's reprehensibility or culpability, see, e. g., Bajakajian,
524 U. S., at 387; Gore, 517 U. S., at 575-580; Solem, 463
U. S., at 290-291; Enmund, 458 U. S., at 798; Coker, 433 U. S.,
at 598 (opinion of White, J.); the relationship between the
penalty and the harm to the victim caused by the defendant's actions, see, e. g., Bajakajian,524 U. S., at 339; Gore,
517 U. S., at 580-583; Solem, 463 U. S., at 293; Enmund, 458
U. S., at 798; Coker, 433 U. S., at 598 (opinion of White, J.);
and the sanctions imposed in other cases for comparable misconduct, see, e. g., Bajakajian, 524 U. S., at 340-343; Gore,
517 U. S., at 583-585; Solem, 463 U. S., at 291; Enmund, 458
U. S., at 789-796; Coker, 433 U. S., at 593-597 (opinion of
White, J.). Moreover, and of greatest relevance for the issue
we address today, in each of these cases we have engaged
in an independent examination of the relevant criteria. See,
e. g., Bajakajian, 524 U. S., at 337-344; Gore, 517 U. S., at
575-586; Solem, 463 U. S., at 295-300; Enmund, 458 U. S.,
at 788-801; Coker, 433 U. S., at 592-600 (opinion of White, J.).
In Bajakajian, we expressly noted that the courts of
appeals must review the proportionality determination "de
novo" and specifically rejected the suggestion of the respondent, who had prevailed in the District Court, that the
trial judge's determination of excessiveness should be reviewed only for an abuse of discretion. "The factual findings made by the district courts in conducting the excessiveness inquiry, of course, must be accepted unless clearly
erroneous.... But the question whether a fine is constitutionally excessive calls for the application of a constitutional
standard to the facts of a particular case, and in this context
de novo review of that question is appropriate." 524 U. S.,
at 336-337, n. 10 (citing Ornelas v. United States, 517 U. S.
690, 697 (1996)).

436

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

Likewise, in Ornelas, we held that trial judges' determinations of reasonable suspicion and probable cause should
be reviewed de novo on appeal. The reasons we gave in
support of that holding are equally applicable in this case.
First, as we observed in Ornelas,the precise meaning of concepts like "reasonable suspicion" and "probable cause" cannot
be articulated with precision; they are "fluid concepts that
take their substantive content from the particular contexts
in which the standards are being assessed." Id., at 696.
That is, of course, also a characteristic of the concept of
"gross excessiveness." Second, "the legal rules for probable
cause and reasonable suspicion acquire content only through
application. Independent review is therefore necessary if
appellate courts are to maintain control of, and to clarify,
the legal principles." Id., at 697. Again, this is also true
of the general criteria set forth in Gore; they will acquire
more meaningful content through case-by-case application
at the appellate level. "Finally, de novo review tends to
unify precedent" and "'stabilize the law."' 517 U. S., at 697698. JUSTICE BREYER made a similar point in his concurring opinion in Gore:
"Requiring the application of law, rather than a decisionmaker's caprice, does more than simply provide citizens
notice of what actions may subject them to punishment;
it also helps to assure the uniform general treatment of
similarly situated persons that is the essence of law itself." 517 U. S., at 587.
Our decisions in analogous cases, together with the reasoning that produced those decisions, thus convince us that
courts of appeals should apply a de novo standard of review when passing on district courts' determinations of the
constitutionality of punitive damages awards.'
9

Contrary to respondents assertion, Brief for Respondent 12-13, our
decision today is supported by our reasoning in Pacific Mut. Life Ins. .Co.
v. Haslip, 499 U. S. 1, 20-21 (1991). In that case, we emphasized the

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
Opinion of the Court
III

"Unlike the measure of actual damages suffered, which
presents a question of historical or predictive fact, see, e. g.,
[St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648 (1915)],
the level of punitive damages is not really a 'fact' 'tried'
by the jury." Gasperini v. Center for Humanities, Inc.,
518 U. S.415, 459 (1996) (SCALIA, J., dissenting). Because
the jury's award of punitive damages does not constitute a
finding of "fact," appellate review of the district court's determination that an award is consistent with due process
does not implicate the Seventh Amendment concerns raised
by respondent and its amicus.'0 See Brief for Respondent
18-24; Brief for Association of Trial Lawyers of America
as Amicus Curiae 17-20. Our decisions in Gasperini and
Hetzel v. Prince William County, 523 U. S.208 (1998) (per
curiam), both of which concerned compensatory damages,
are not to the contrary."
importance of appellate review to ensuring that a jury's award of punitive
damages comports with due process. See id., at 20-21 ("[A]ppellate review makes certain that the punitive damages are reasonable in their
amount and rational in light of their purpose to punish what has occurred
and to deter its repetition").
10 Respondent argues that our decision in Honda Motor Co. v. Oberg,
512 U. S. 415 (1994), rests upon the assumption that punitive damages
awards are findings of fact. In that case, we held that the Oregon Constitution, which prohibits the reexamination of any "fact tried by a jury,"
Ore. Const., Art. VII, §, violated due process because it did not allow
for any review of the constitutionality of punitive damages awards. Respondent claims that, because we considered this provision of the Oregon
Constitution to cover punitive damages, we implicitly held that punitive
damages are a "fact tried by a jury." Brief for Respondent 27-28. It
was the Oregon Supreme Court's interpretation of that provision, however, and not our own, that compelled the treatment of punitive damages
as covered. See Oberg, 512 U. S., at 427; see also Van Lom v. Schneiderman, 187 Ore. 89, 93, 210 P. 2d 461, 462 (1949) (construing the Oregon
Constitution).
11Nor does the historical material upon which respondent relies so
extensively, see Brief for Respondent 19-24, conflict with our decision to
require de novo review. Most of the sources respondent cites merely

438

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

It might be argued that the deterrent function of punitive
damages suggests that the amount of such damages awarded
is indeed a "fact" found by the jury and that, as a result, the
Seventh Amendment is implicated in appellate review of that
award. Some scholars, for example, assert that punitive
damages should be used to compensate for the underdeterrence of unlawful behavior that will result from a defendant's
evasion of liability. See Polinsky & Shavell, Punitive Damages: An Economic Analysis, 111 Harv. L. Rev. 869, 890-891
stand for the proposition that, perhaps because it is a fact-sensitive undertaking, determining the amount of punitive damages should be left to the
discretion of the jury. See, e. g., Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550, 565
(1886) ("[I]t is the peculiar function of the jury" to set the amount of
punitive damages); Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. 363, 871 (1852) (punitive
damages should be "left to the discretion of the jury"). They do not,
however, indicate that the amount of punitive damages imposed by the
jury is itself a "fact" within the meaning of the Seventh Amendment's
Reexamination Clause. See Gasperini v. Center for Humanities, Inc.,
518 U. S.415, 432 (1996) (distinguishing between the "Trial by Jury"
Clause, which "bears ...on the allocation of trial functions between judge
and jury," and the "Reexamination" Clause, which "controls the allocation
of authority to review verdicts"); see also id., at 447-448 (STEVENS, J.,
dissenting) (same).
In any event, punitive damages have evolved somewhat since the time
of respondent's sources. Until well into the 19th century, punitive damages frequently operated to compensate for intangible injuries, compensation which was not otherwise available under the narrow conception
of compensatory damages prevalent at the time. See Haslip, 499 U. S.,
at 61 (O'CoNNoR, J., dissenting); see also Note, Exemplary Damages in
the Law of Torts, 70 Harv. L. Rev. 517, 520 (1957) (observing a "vacillation"
in the 19th-century cases between "compensatory" and "punitive" theories
of "exemplary damages"). As the types of compensatory damages available to plaintiffs have broadened, see, e. g., 1 J. Nates, C. Kimball, D. Axelrod, & R. Goldstein, Damages in Tort Actions §3.01[3][a] (2000) (pain and
suffering are generally available as species of compensatory damages),
the theory behind punitive damages has shifted toward a more purely
punitive (and therefore less factual) understanding. Cf Note, 70 Harv.
L. Rev., at 520 (noting a historical shift away from a compensatory-and
toward a more purely punitive--conception of punitive damages).

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

(1998) (in order to obtain optimal deterrence, "punitive damages should equal the harm multiplied by... the ratio of the
injurer's chance of escaping liability to his chance of being
found liable"); see also Ciraolo v. New York, 216 F. 3d 236,
244-245 (CA2 2000) (Calabresi, J., concurring). "The efficient deterrence theory thus regards punitive damages as
merely an augmentation of compensatory damages designed
to achieve economic efficiency." Galanter & Luban, Poetic
Justice: Punitive Damages and Legal Pluralism, 42 Am. U.
L. Rev. 1393, 1449 (1993).
However attractive such an approach to punitive damages might be as an abstract policy matter, it is clear that
juries do not normally engage in such a finely tuned exercise
of deterrence calibration when awarding punitive damages.
See Sunstein, Schkade, & Kahneman, Do People Want Optimal Deterrence?, 29 J. Legal Studies 237, 240 (2000). After
all, deterrence is not the only purpose served by punitive
damages. See supra, at 432. And there is no dispute that,
in this case, deterrence was but one of four concerns the
jury was instructed to consider when setting the amount of
punitive damages. 12 Moreover, it is not at all obvious that
even the deterrent function of punitive damages can be
served only by economically "optimal deterrence." "[C]itizens and legislators may rightly insist that they are willing
to tolerate some loss in economic efficiency in order to deter
what they consider morally offensive conduct, albeit cost12The jury was instructed to consider the following factors: (1) "The
character of the defendant's conduct that is the subject of Leatherman's
unfair competition claims"; (2) "The defendant's motive"; (3) "The sum of
money that would be required to discourage the defendant and others from
engaging in such conduct in the future"; and (4) "The defendant's income
and assets." App. 14. Although the jury's application of these instructions may have depended on specific findings of fact, nothing in our decision today suggests that the Seventh Amendment would permit a court,
in reviewing a punitive damages award, to disregard such jury findings.
See, e.g., Gore, 517 U. S., at 579-580.

440

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

beneficial morally offensive conduct; efficiency is just one
consideration among many." Galanter & Luban, 42 Am. U.
L. Rev., at 1450.13

Differences in the institutional competence of trial judges
and appellate judges are consistent with our conclusion. In
Gore, we instructed courts evaluating a punitive damages
award's consistency with due process to consider three criteria: (1) the degree or reprehensibility of the defendant's
misconduct, (2) the disparity between the harm (or potential
harm) suffered by the plaintiff and the punitive damages
award, and (3) the difference between the punitive damages
awarded by the jury and the civil penalties authorized or
imposed in comparable cases. 517 U. S., at 574-575. Only
with respect to the first Gore inquiry do the district courts
have a somewhat superior vantage over courts of appeals,
and even then the advantage exists primarily with respect to
issues turning on witness credibility and demeanor. 14 Trial
courts and appellate courts seem equally capable of analyzing the second factor. And the third Gore criterion, which
calls for a broad legal comparison, seems more suited to
the expertise of appellate courts. Considerations of institutional competence therefore fail to tip the balance in favor
of deferential appellate review.
13

We express no opinion on the question whether Gasperini would
govern-and de novo review would be inappropriate-if a State were to
adopt a scheme that tied the award of punitive damages more tightly
to the jury's finding of compensatory damages. This might be the case,
for example, if the State's scheme constrained a jury to award only the
exact amount of punitive damages it determined was necessary to obtain
economically optimal deterrence or if it defined punitive damages as a
multiple of compensatory damages (e. g., treble damages).
1While we have determined that the Court of Appeals must review the
District Court's application of the Gore test de novo, it of course remains
true that the Court of Appeals should defer to the District Court's findings
of fact unless they are clearly erroneous. See United States v. Bajakajian, 524 U. S.321, 336-337, n. 10 (1998).

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
Opinion of the Court

IV
It is possible that the standard of review applied by the
Court of Appeals will affect the result of the Gore analysis
in only a relatively small number of cases. See Brief for
Respondent 46-48; Brief for Association of American Railroads as Amicus Curiae 18; see also Gasperini, 518 U. S.,
at 448 (STEVENS, J., dissenting). Nonetheless, it does seem
likely that in this case a thorough, independent review of the
District Court's rejection of petitioner's due process objections to the punitive damages award might well have led
the Court of Appeals to reach a different result. Indeed,
our own consideration of each of the three Gore factors reveals a series of questionable conclusions by the District
Court that may not survive de novo review.
When the jury assessed the reprehensibility of Cooper's
misconduct, it was guided by instructions that characterized
the deliberate copying of the PST as wrongful. The jury's
selection of a penalty to deter wrongful conduct may, therefore, have been influenced by an intent to deter Cooper from
engaging in such copying in the future. Similarly, the District Court's belief that Cooper acted unlawfully in deliberately copying the PST design might have influenced its
consideration of the first Gore factor. See App. to Pet. for
Cert. 23a. But, as the Court of Appeals correctly held, such
copying of the functional features of an unpatented product
is lawful. See TrafFix Devices, Inc. v. Marketing Displays,
Inc., ante, p. 23. The Court of Appeals recognized that the
District Court's award of attorney's fees could not be supported if based on the premise that the copying was unlawful, but it did not consider whether that improper predicate
might also have undermined the basis for the jury's large
punitive damages award.
In evaluating the second Gore factor, the ratio between
the size of the award of punitive damages and the harm
caused by Cooper's tortious conduct, the District Court

442

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
Opinion of the Court

might have been influenced by respondent's submission that
it was not the actual injury-which the jury assessed at
$50,000-that was relevant, but rather "the potential harm
Leatherman would have suffered had Cooper succeeded in
its wrongful conduct." See Brief for Respondent 7; see
also Record Doc. No. 323, p. 23. Respondent calculated that
"potential harm" by referring to the fact that Cooper had
anticipated "gross profits of approximately $3 million during
the first five years of sales." Brief for Respondent 7; see
also Record Doc. No. 323, at 23. Even if that estimate were
correct, however, it would be unrealistic to assume that all
of Cooper's sales of the ToolZall would have been attributable to its misconduct in using a photograph of a modified
PST in its initial advertising materials. As the Court of Appeals pointed out, the picture of the PST did not misrepresent the features of the original ToolZall and could not have
deceived potential customers in any significant way. Its use
was wrongful because it enabled Cooper to expedite the promotion of its tool, but that wrongdoing surely could not be
treated as the principal cause of Cooper's entire sales volume
for a 5-year period.
With respect to the third Gore factor, respondent argues
that Cooper would have been subject to a comparable sanction under Oregon's Unlawful Trade Practices Act. Brief
for Respondent 49. In a suit brought by a State under that
Act, a civil penalty of up to $25,000 per violation may be
assessed. Ore. Rev. Stat. §646.642(3) (1997). In respondent's view, each of the thousands of pieces of promotional
material containing a picture of the PST that Cooper distributed warranted the maximum fine. Brief for Respondent 49. Petitioner, on the other hand, argues that its preparation of a single "mock-up" for use in a single distribution
would have been viewed as a single violation under the state
statute. Reply Brief for Petitioner 2-3. The Court of Appeals expressed no opinion on this dispute. It did, however,
observe that the unfairness in Cooper's use of the picture

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
SCALIA, J., concurring in judgment

apparently had nothing to do with misleading customers
but was related to its inability to obtain a "mock-up" quickly
and cheaply. App. to Pet. for Cert. 3a. This observation
is more consistent with the single-violation theory than
with the notion that the statutory violation would have been
sanctioned with a multimillion dollar fine.
We have made 'these comments on issues raised by application of the three Gore guidelines to the facts of this case,
not to prejudge the answer to the constitutional question,
but rather to illustrate why we are persuaded that the Court
of Appeals' answer to that question may depend upon the
standard of review. The de novo standard should govern
its decision. Because the Court of Appeals applied a less
demanding standard in this case, we vacate the judgment
and remand the case for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE THOMAS,

concurring.

I continue to believe that the Constitution does not
constrain the size of punitive damages awards. See BMW
of North America, Inc. v. Gore, 517 U. S. 559, 599 (1996)
(SCALIA, J., joined by THOMAS, J., dissenting). For this reason, given the opportunity, I would vote to overrule BMW.
This case, however, does not present such an opportunity.
The only issue before us today is what standard should be
used to review a trial court's ruling on a BMW challenge.
Because I agree with the Court's resolution of that issue,
I join the opinion of the Court.
concurring in the judgment.
I was (and remain) of the view that excessive punitive
damages do not violate the Due Process Clause; but the
Court held otherwise. See BMW of North America, Inc. v.
Gore, 517 U. S. 559 (1996); id., at 598 (ScA A, J., dissenting).
And I was of the view that we should review for abuse
JUSTICE ScAmA,

444

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
GiNSBURG, J., dissenting

of discretion (rather than de novo) fact-bound constitutional
issues which, in their resistance to meaningful generalization, resemble the question of excessiveness of punitive
damages-namely, whether there exists reasonable suspicion
for a stop and probable cause for a search; but the Court
held otherwise. See Ornelas v. United States, 517 U. S. 690
(1996); id., at 700 (SCALIA, J., dissenting).

Finally, in a case

in which I joined a dissent that made it unnecessary for
me to reach the issue, the Court categorically stated that
"the question whether a fine is constitutionally excessive
calls for... de novo review." United States v. Bajakajian,
524 U. S.321, 336-337, n. 10 (1998); see id., at 344 (KENJ., joined by REHNQUIST, C. J., and O'CONNOR and
SCALIA, JJ., dissenting). Given these precedents, I agree

NEDY,

that de novo review of the question of excessive punitive
damages best accords with our jurisprudence. Accordingly,
I concur in the judgment of the Court.
dissenting.
In Gasperiniv. Centerfor Humanities, Inc., 518 U.S.415
(1996), we held that appellate review of a federal trial court's
refusal to set aside a jury verdict as excessive is reconcilable
with the Seventh Amendment if "appellate control [is] limited to review for 'abuse of discretion."' Id., at 419. Gasperini was a diversity action in which the defendant had
challenged a compensatory damages award as excessive
under New York law. The reasoning of that case applies
as well to an action challenging a punitive damages award
as excessive under the Constitution. I would hold, therefore, that the proper standard of appellate oversight is not
de novo review, as the Court today concludes, but review for
abuse of discretion.
"An essential characteristic of [the federal court] system
is the manner in which, in civil common-law actions, it distributes trial functions between judge and jury and, under
the influence-if not the command-of the Seventh AmendJUSTICE GINSBURG,

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

ment, assigns the decisions of disputed questions of fact to
the jury." Id., at 432 (citing Byrd v. Blue Ridge Rural Elec.
Cooperative, Inc., 356 U. S. 525, 537 (1958)). The Seventh
Amendment provides: "In Suits at common law... the right
of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no fact tried by a
jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the
United States, than according to the rules of the common
law." In Gasperini,we observed that although trial courts
traditionally had broad authority at common law to set aside
jury verdicts and to grant new trials, 518 U. S., at 432-433,
"appellate review of a federal trial court's denial of a motion
to set aside a jury's verdict as excessive is a relatively late,
and less secure, development," id., at 434. We ultimately
concluded that the Seventh Amendment does not preclude
such appellate review, id., at 436, but explained that "[w]ithin
the federal system, practical reasons combine with Seventh
Amendment constraints to lodge in the district court, not
the court of appeals, primary responsibility for application
of [an excessiveness standard]," id., at 438. "Trial judges
have the unique opportunity to consider the evidence in the
living courtroom context," we said, "while appellate judges
see only the cold paper record." Ibid. (citations and internal
quotation marks omitted). "If [courts of appeals] reverse,
it must be because of an abuse of discretion ....The very
nature of the problem counsels restraint. . . . [Appellate
courts] must give the benefit of every doubt to the judgment
of the trial judge." Id., at 438-439 (internal quotation
marks omitted) (citing Dagnello v. Long Island R. Co., 289
F. 2d 797, 806 (CA2 1961)).
Although Gasperiniinvolved compensatory damages, I see
no reason why its logic should be abandoned when punitive
damages are alleged to be excessive. At common law, as our
longstanding decisions reiterate, the task of determining the
amount of punitive damages "has [always been] left to the
discretion of the jury." Day v. Woodworth, 13 How. 363, 371
(1852); see Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550, 565 (1886)

446

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

("[N]othing is better settled than that.., it is the peculiar
function of the jury to determine the amount [of punitive
damages] by their verdict."). The commitment of this fumction to the jury, we have explained, reflects the historical
understanding that "the degree of punishment to be thus
inflicted must depend on the peculiar circumstances of each
case." Day, 13 How., at 371. The relevant factors include
"the conduct and motives of the defendant" and whether,
"in committing the wrong complained of, he acted recklessly,
or wilfully and maliciously, with a design to oppress and injure the plaintiff." 1 J. Sutherland, Law of Damages 720
(1882). Such inquiry, the Court acknowledges, "is a factsensitive undertaking." Ante, at 438, n. 11.
The Court nevertheless today asserts that a "jury's award
of punitive damages does not constitute a finding of 'fact!"
within the meaning of the Seventh Amendment. Ante, at
437. An ultimate award of punitive damages, it is true, involves more than the resolution of matters of historical or
predictive fact. See ibid. (citing Gasperini,518 U. S., at 459
(SCALIA, J., dissenting)).

But there can be no question that

a jury's verdict on punitive damages is fundamentally dependent on determinations we characterize as factfindingse. g., the extent of harm or potential harm caused by the
defendant's misconduct, whether the defendant acted in
good faith, whether the misconduct was an individual instance or part of a broader pattern, whether the defendant behaved negligently, recklessly, or maliciously. Punitive
damages are thus not "[u]nlike the measure of actual damages suffered," ante, at 437 (citation and internal quotation
marks omitted), in cases of intangible, noneconomic injury.
One million dollars' worth of pain and suffering does not
exist as a "fact" in the world any more or less than one
million dollars' worth of moral outrage. Both derive their
meaning from a set of underlying facts as determined by a
jury. If one exercise in quantification is properly regarded
as factfinding, see St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co. v. Craft, 237

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
GiNSBURG, J.,

dissenting

U. S. 648, 661 (1915) (compensation for pain and suffering
"involves only a question of fact"), it seems to me the other
should be so regarded as well.
In Browning-FerrisIndustries of Vt., Inc. v. Kelco Disposal, Inc., 492 U. S. 257 (1989), we approved application
of an abuse-of-discretion standard for appellate review of a
district court's ruling on a motion to set aside a punitive
damages award as excessive. See id., at 279. BrowningFerrisreserved the question whether even such deferential
appellate review might run afoul of the Seventh Amendment. At that time (i. e., pre-Gasperini),the Court "ha[d]
never held expressly that the Seventh Amendment allows
appellate review of a district court's denial of a motion to
set aside an award as excessive." 492 U. S., at 279, n. 25.
We found it unnecessary to reach the Seventh Amendment
question in Browning-Ferrisbecause the jury verdict there
survived lower court review intact. Id., at 279, n. 25, 280.
Browning-Ferris,in short, signaled our recognition that
appellate review of punitive damages, if permissible at all,
would involve at most abuse-of-discretion review. "[P]articularly... because the federal courts operate under the strictures of the Seventh Amendment," we were "reluctant to
stray too far from traditional common-law standards, or to
take steps which ultimately might interfere with the proper
role of the jury." Id., at 280, n. 26.
The Court finds no incompatibility between this case
and Browning-Ferris,observing that Browning-Ferrispresented for our review an excessiveness challenge resting
solely on state law, not on the Constitution. See ante, at
483, and n. 7. It is unclear to me why this distinction should
make a difference. Of the three guideposts BMW of North
America, Inc. v. Gore, 517 U. S.559 (1996), established for
assessing constitutional excessiveness, two were derived
from common-law standards that typically inform state law.
See id., at 575, n. 24 ("The principle that punishment should
fit the crime is deeply rooted and frequently repeated in

448

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

common-law jurisprudence." (citation and internal quotation marks omitted)); id., at 580 ("The principle that exemplary damages must bear a 'reasonable relationship' to
compensatory damages has a long pedigree."). The third
guidepost-comparability of sanctions for comparable misconduct-is not similarly rooted in common law, nor is it
similarly factbound. As the Court states, "the third Gore
criterion ... calls for a broad legal comparison." Ante, at
440. But to the extent the inquiry is "legal" in character,
there is little difference between review de novo and review for abuse of discretion. Cf. Gasperini,518 U. S., at 448
(STEVENS, J., dissenting) ("[I]t is a familiar... maxim that
deems an error of law an abuse of discretion.").'
Apart from "Seventh Amendment constraints," an abuseof-discretion standard also makes sense for "practical reasons." Id., at 438. With respect to the first Gore inquiry
(i. e., reprehensibility of the defendant's conduct), district
courts have an undeniably superior vantage over courts of
appeals. As earlier noted, supra, at 445, district courts
view the evidence not on a "cold paper record," but "in the
living courtroom context," Gasperini, 518 U. S., at 438.
They can assess from the best seats the vital matter of witness credibility. And "it of course remains true that [a]
'Appellate courts, following our instruction, apply de novo review to
trial court determinations of reasonable suspicion, probable cause, and excessiveness of fines. See ante, at 435-436 (citing United States v. Bajakajian, 524 U. S. 321, 336-337, n. 10 (1998), and Ornelas v. United States,
517 U. S. 690, 696-698 (1996)). But such determinations typically are
made without jury involvement, see, e. g., Bajakajian,524 U. S., at 325326; Ornelas,517 U. S., at 694, and surely do not implicate the Seventh
Amendment. Moreover, although Bajakajiansaid "the question whether
a [criminal] fine is constitutionally excessive calls for... de novo review,"
524 U. S., at 336-337, n. 10, Bajakajian did not disturb our holding in
Browning-FerrisIndustries of Vt., Inc. v. Kelco Disposal,Inc., 492 U. S.
257 (1989), that the "Excessive Fines Clause does not apply to awards of
punitive damages in [civil] cases between private parties," id., at 260.

Cite as: 532 U. S. 424 (2001)
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

Court of Appeals should defer to the District Court's findings of fact unless they are clearly erroneous." Ante, at
440, n. 14.2
The Court recognizes that district courts have the edge
on the first Gore factor, ante, at 440, but goes on to say
that "[t]rial courts and appellate courts seem equally capable
of analyzing the second [Gore] factor" (i. e., whether punitive
damages bear a reasonable relationship to the actual harm
inflicted), ibid. Only "the third Gore criterion [i. e., intrajurisdictional and interjurisdictional comparisons] ... seems
more suited to the expertise of appellate courts." Ibid.
To the extent the second factor requires a determination
of "the actual harm inflicted on the plaintiff," Gore, 517 U. S.,
at 580, district courts may be better positioned to conduct
the inquiry, especially in cases of intangible injury. I can
demur to the Court's assessment of relative institutional
strengths, however, for even accepting that assessment,
I would disagree with the Court's conclusion that "[c]onsiderations of institutional competence... fail to tip the balance
in favor of deferential appellate review," ante, at 440. Gore
itself assigned particular importance to the first inquiry,
characterizing "degree of reprehensibility" as "[p]erhaps the
most important indicium of the reasonableness of a punitive
damages award." 517 U. S., at 575. District courts, as just
noted, supra, at 448 and this page, have a superior vantage
over courts of appeals in conducting that fact-intensive inquiry. Therefore, in the typical case envisioned by Gore,
where reasonableness is primarily tied to reprehensibility, an
appellate court should have infrequent occasion to reverse.
This observation, I readily acknowledge, suggests that
the practical difference between the Court's approach and
2

An appellate court might be at a loss to accord such deference to jury
findings of fact absent trial court employment of either a special verdict
or a general verdict accompanied by written interrogatories. See Fed.
Rule Civ. Proc. 49.

450

COOPER INDUSTRIES, INC. v. LEATHERMAN
TOOL GROUP, INC.
GINSBURG, J., dissenting

my own is not large. An abuse-of-discretion standard, as
I see it, hews more closely to "the strictures of the Seventh Amendment," Browning-Ferris,492 U. S., at 280, n. 26.
The Court's de novo standard is more complex. It requires
lower courts to distinguish between ordinary common-law
excessiveness and constitutional excessiveness, ante, at 433,
and to separate out factfindings that qualify for "clearly erroneous" review, ante, at 440, n. 14. See also ante, at 440, n. 13
(suggesting abuse-of-discretion review might be in order
"if a State were to adopt a scheme that tied the award of
punitive damages more tightly to the jury's finding of compensatory damages"). The Court's approach will be challenging to administer. Complex as it is, I suspect that approach and mine will yield different outcomes in few cases.
The Ninth Circuit, I conclude, properly identified abuse
of discretion as the appropriate standard in reviewing the
District Court's determination that the punitive damages
awarded against Cooper were not grossly excessive. For
the Seventh Amendment and practical reasons stated, I
would affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals.

