OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

court of equity would, after such payment, compel those holding the legaltitle to execute a sufficient deed.
As to the rights of the legatees, including the co-executor,
residing in Indiana, only a word need be said. If they have
just ground to complain of the resident executor, and their
rights can at this date be judicially enforced, they must proa ceed by suit against his representatives, or, excepting the coexecutor, against his sureties. 3forrow v Peyton, 8 Leigh,
54, Lzdderdale v 1?obmnson, 2 Brock, 160. When such suit is
brought it will be time enough to consider how far the settlement of his accounts can be impeached, and how far any
remedy is affected by alleged laches. At present these questions require no answer.
The decree of the court below must be
Reversed,and the cause remanded, with directwns to dismzss
the suit.

NEW PROVIDENOE v.

IALSEY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.

Argued M[arch 8, 18S6.-Decided March 22, 1886.
In an action at law in a Circuit Court of the United States against a township
to recover on bonds issued by the township, the plaintiff is not entitled to
recover on bonds transferred to him by citizens of the State in which the
town is situated for the mere purpose of being sued in a court of the United
States. Bernard Township v Stebbins, 109 U. S. 841, affirmed and applied.
A municipal bond in the ordinary form is a promissory note negotiable by the
law merchant within the meaning of that term in the act of March 3, 1875.
Ackley School Districtv. Hall, 113 U. S. 135, affirmed and applied.
The issue of township bonds by commissioners under the act of the legislature
of New Jersey of April 9, 1868, "to authorize certain towns in the counties
of Somerset, Morris, Essex and Union to issue bonds and take stock in the
Passaic Valley and Peapack Railroad Company," was conclusive as to the
amount that could be put out under the statute and estopped the township
from setting up against a bonafide holder that the issue was in excess of the
amount authorized.

NEW PROVIDENCE v. HALSEY.
Opinion of the Court.
In order to avail to stop costs, an offer to submit to entry of judgment should
be made in open court, and the court be asked to act thereon, after due notice to the other party.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.r

:omas _Y

ecCarter for plaintiff in error.

Mr' Henry C. Pitney for defendant in error.

:Mi. Cnnr JUSTICE

WArr

delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by Abraham Halsey, a citizen of California, to recover the amount due on twenty-six bonds, amounting in the aggregate, without interest, to $8200, given by the
Inhabitants of the Township of New Providence, lNew Jersey,
for stock in the Passaic Valley and Peapack Railroad Company
It is conceded that Halsey holds in his own right but nine of
the bonds, on which there is due, without interest, 8900. The
rest belong to citizens of New Jersey, who assigned them to
him for collection only Of the nine which he holds in his own
right, seven belonged at one time to his father, a citizen of New
Jersey, who was a purchaser before maturity for value without
notice. Three of these seven came to him on the distribution
of his father's estate, and the other four he bought from his
brothers and sisters, citizens of New Jersey, who got them in
the same way The remaining two he bought from a brother,
who had bought from another brother, who was a bona )fde
holder for value, and both these brothers were citizens of 'New
Jersey The evidence does not show how much he paid for
what he bought, but it does appear that he paid something.
The bonds were issued under the same statute which was before this court for consideration in Bernards Towneliq v iSte3bvzs, 109 U7. S. 341, and is found fully stated on pages ,32,343,
and 344 of that case.
On the trial several questions arose, but the following are all
that have been brought to the attention of this court by the
argument for the plaintiffs in error
1. Whether a recovery can be had in this action for the bonds
VOL. cxvn-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

actually owned by citizens of New Jersey and held by Halsey only to collect for their account.
2. Whether Halsey can recover on the mine bonds he holds
in his own right, inasmuch as he got them by assignment from
citizens of New Jersey, who could not sue in the courts of the
United States, and he is compelled to rely on the title of his
assignors to avoid the matters pleaded in bar to the action.
3. Whether the issue of the bonds under the statute by the
commissioners appointed for that purpose estops the Township
from setting up as a defence against a bona fide holder that the
original issue was in excess of the amount authorized.
The Circuit Court ruled against the Township on all these
questions, and gave judgment upon a verdict of the jury for
the full amount claimed, being $15,981.88. To reverse that
judgment this writ of error was brought.
It is conceded that the ruling on the first of the questions
was wrong, and that the judgment is erroneous to the extent
of the bonds not held by Halsey in his own right. That was
decided in Bernards Townshtp v Stebbtns, above referred to.
The second question is disposed of by the case of Ackley
Sewol Dzstmrt v. fall, 113 U. S. 135, where it was decided
that a municipal bond in the ordinary form was "a promissory
note negotiable by the law merchant," within the meaning of
that term in the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470. ch. 137, ยง 1,
winch allows a suit on instruments of that class to be brought
in the courts of the United States by an assignee notwithstanding a suit could not have been prosecuted in such court if no
assignment had been made. These bonds are of that character.
Such being the case, it is a matter of no importance that Halsey
makes title to the bonds he owns through assignments by.citizens of New Jersey
The Court of Errors of New Jersey has recently decided in
Cotton v. .Vew Promdence,18 Vroom (47 N. J L.) 401, following the rule laid down in .2atualBeneftt Life Ins. Co. v..Llizbeth, 13 Yroom (42 N. J. L.) 235, that purchasers of bonds of
the issue of those now in suit had the right to rely on the decision of the commissioners as conclusive in respect to the amount
that could be put out under the statute. The language of the

NEW PROVIDENCE v. RALSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

court is, "When they [the commissioners] issued bonds they
averred that the issue was within the limit. Construing the act
by the rule laid down in the case cited, [In. Co. v Elizabeth,]
the legislative intent that their decision on this subject should be
final, appears. The holder of the bonds had the right to rely
thereon. For this reason I feel constrained to hold that bonds
issued beyond the limit would be enforceable." To this we
agree, and it is conclusive as to the correctness of the ruling of
the court below upon the third question presented.
It follows that the judgment of the court below must be reversed. A question was, however, raised at the argument as
to costs. Annexed to the brief of counsel for the defendant in
error is a copy of what purports to be an offer by the Township
to Halsey, after the decision of this court in Bernmards ToWn1shap,v. Sltebbtns, and before the record in this case was printed,
to allow the judgment to be reversed at once, so far as the
bonds not owned by him were concerned, "with permission to
the defendant in error to discontinue as to those bonds, and to
strike from the record the counts founded thereon," and that
as to the other bonds it be affirmed, "and that the court may
make such order as to the costs incurred in this court as it shall
deem just, " "or that the court be requested at once to pronounce judgment on the basis of the plaintiff being entitled to
recover only upon the bonds" owned by him, "and that as to
all the other bonds mentioned in the record the plaintiff was
not entitled to recover," under the decision in Bernardq Townsh ) v. Stebb3ns. We are asked now, on account of this offer,
to adjudge that the plaintiff in error pay the costs which have
been incurred in printing the record, including the clerk's fee
for supervising. The offer, although printed in the brief, -was
not proved at the hearing, but if it had been we could not have
given it the effect now asked. Offers of this kind made out of
court cannot be considered by us. The offer should have
been made in open court and the court asked to act thereon
after the township nad been notified in due form to show cause
against it. The case of Bernards Townshtp v Stebbzns was
decided at the October Term, 1883, and the offer is said to
have been made January 24, 1884. There was abundance of

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

time after the decision in that case had become known for
counsel to have applied for an order in the premises before the
end of that term, and before the record was printed. This was
not done.
The judgment is
Reversed, and the cause renandedfor further proceedings
not snconsztent with this opznson.

RAND v. WALKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUr COURT OF THE UNTITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted March 2, 18S6.-Decided March 22, 1886.
A bill for the assignment of dower brought in a State court alleged that A,
one of the defendants, in purchasing the property, acted as agent and trustee of B, and took and held title to the joint use and benefit of lmself and
B. The complainant and B were citizens of te same State , A was a citizen of a different State. The answers took no notice of these allegations.
Held, That the petition of A to remove the cause to the Circuit Court of
the United States should be denied, as B was a necessary party to the suit.
The right to take steps for the removal of a cause to a Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground of a separable controversy is confined to the
parties actually interested in such controversy.
After removal of a bill in equity from a State court to a Circuit Court of the
United States on motion of one of the respondents, the complainant filed a
cross-bill alleging that a judgment. obtained in the Circuit Court in a suit
in which she was not a party, after the removal, bad been obtained collusively and did not conclude her Held, That this presented no reason why
the cause, having been improperly removed, should not be remanded.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

3r W C. Goudy for appellant.
2fr

. S. Isham for appellee.

MR. CHIEF JUSTIE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1875,

