OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

PHELPS & Others v. OAKS & Others.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
WESTERLN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

FOR THE

Submitted March 1, 1886.-Decided March 15, 1856.
A Circuit Court of the United States having, by removal from a State court
by reason of citizenship of the parties, properly acquired jurisdiction of an
action against a tenant for the possession of land, is not ousted of it by
admitting as codefendant, under the provisions of a State statute, his landlord, a citizen of the same State as the plaintiff.
Section 914 of the Revised Statutes, which requires the forms and modes of
proceeding in civil causes other than equity and admiralty causes in Circuit
and District courts to conform, as near as may be, to the forrms and modes of
proceeding existing at the time in like causes in the courts of record m the
State within which the Circuit or District Courts are held, does not require
the courts of the United States, by adopting the forms and modes of the
State, courts, to divest themselves of a jurisdiction once lawfully acquired
under an act of Congress.
In ejectment against a tenant in possession of real estate whose landlord is a
citizen of another State, the plaintiff has a real and substantial "controversy" with the defendant within the meaning of the act for removal of
causes from State courts, which continues after his landlord is summoned
in and becomes a party for the purpose of protecting his own interests.

The plaintiffs in error, who were plaintiffs below, brought
their action in the Circuit Court of DeKalb County, Missouri,
at the April Term, 1883, against George R. Oaks for the recovery of the possession of certain lands in that county, unlawfully
withheld by him, as they alleged, and for damages therefor
and for rents and profits.
The defendant, a citizen of Missouri, having been served with
process, the plaintiffs, who were citizens of Pennsylvania, filed
their petition for the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court
of the United States for the Western Division of the Western
District of Missouri, on the ground that the controversy in said
suit was between citizens of different States, the matter and
amount in dispute being in excess of the sum or value of $500.
The prayer of the petition was granted, the accompanying
bond being approved, and the cause was removed.

PHELPS v. OAKS.
Opinion of the Court.

Afterwards, on June 16, 1884, the defendant Oaks filed his
answer, in which he denied all the allegations of the plaintiffs'
complaint, except as expressly admitted, and in addition set up
that at the time of the commencement of the action he was in
possession of the premises as the tenant, from year to year, of
one Maria Zeidler, wife of John Zeidler, who was the owner
thereof, and to whom he had paid the rents due on account
thereof, and asked that the said Maria and John Zeidler be
made parties defendant to the suit, according to the form of
the statute of Missouri in such cases provided. Thereupon the
Zeldlers also appeared and asked to be let in as defendants and
for leave to plead, and it was so ordered by the court, with
leave to file a motion to remand the cause to the State court
in thirty days. Such a motion was accordingly made on the
ground that M aria Zeldler and John Zeidler, her husband, were
both citizens of IPennsylvania, that the defendant Oaks made
no claim or demand to the premises in controversy, otherwise
than as the tenant of Maria Zeidler, and that, consequently,
the said suit did not really and substantially involve a dispute
or controversy properly within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of the United States.
Pending this motion the plaintiffs moved the court to rescind
the order making M aria and John Zeidler parties. This motion
to rescind was denied, and the motion of. the defendants to
remand the cause was granted. To reverse these rulings was
the object of this writ of error.
._Mr S. B. add (
J 1) Strong, fXr C. A. .3fosman, and
.rA H. -. Wtite were with him) for plaintiffs in error.
Xr Carles F Hornor (Aflr S. S. Brown, fr H. Ramey,
and Jfr J F larwoodwere with him) for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE MAErFnws delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the case as above reported, he continued
That the cause when removed from the State to the Circuit
Court was rightly removed is not denied, Under the fRemoval
Act of 1875,. the plaintiffs were authorized to remove their ac-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tion, although brought by them in the first place in the State
court, into the Circuit Court of the United States, they being
citizens of Pennsylvania, and the defendant a citizen of Missouri
and an inhabitant of the district.
The ground on which the suit was remanded was that it subsequently appeared that it did not really and substantially
involve a controversy properly within the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, according to the sense of the 5th section of the
act of March 3, 1875. This conclusion, it is supposed, is justified by the fact that the defendant Oaks, being merely a tenant
of Maria Zeidler, who claimed title to the premises in dispute,
had no real interest in the controversy and wps a merely nominal party, his landlord being the real party in interest, entitled
to be let in to defend as a party to the record, and bound by
law to maintain his tenant's possession, so that the real and
substantial controversy involved in and to be determined by the
action, was not between the plaintiffs and Oaks, but between
them and the Zeidlers, and the latter being citizens of the same
State with the plaintiffs, it became apparent that the cause was
not properly within the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
The statutes of Missouri provide that "every tenant on whom
a summons in an action to recover the tenements held by him
shall be served shall forthwith give notice thereof to the person
or the agent of the person of whom such tenant holds, under
the penalty of forfeiting to such person the value of three years'
rent of the premises occupied by him." 1 Rev. Stat. Missouri,
1879, 514, ยง 3071. And by ยง 2244, that "the person from or
through whom the defendant claims title to the premises may,
on motion, be made a co-defendant." 1 Rev Stat. Missouri,
374. And it is claimed that, under the decisions of the Supreme
Court of the State, this right of the owner or warrantor of the
title to be let in as a party to defend, does not rest in the discretion of the court, but is absolute. Sutton v. Casseleggi, 7'
Missouri, 397, 408. It is assumed that the statute is equally
obligatory upon the courts of the United States.
'But this is a mistake. It is true that by Rev Stat. ยง 914,
it is required that "the practice, pleadings, and forms and
modes of proceeding in civil causes, other than equity and ad-

PHELPS v. OAKS.
Opimon of the Court.

miralty causes, in the Circuit and District Courts, shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding existing at the time in like causes in
the courts of record of the State within which such Circuit or
District Courts are held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding;" but "the conformity is required," as was said
by this court in Indianapolis & St. Lous Railroad Co. v.
Borst, 93 U. S. 291, 301, "to be 'as near as may be'-not as
near as may be possible, or as near as may be practhable. This
indefiniteness may have been suggested by a purpose it devolved upon the judges to be affected the duty of construing
and deciding, and gave them the power to reject, as Congress
doubtless expected they would do, any subordinate provision in
such State statutes which, in their judgment, would unwisely
encumber the administration of the law, or tend to defeat the
ends of justice, in their tribunals." 'Certainly it was not, intended that these statutes were to be adopted with the effect
of defeating the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States
once lawfully attached under an act of Congress. Stewart v
Dunham., 115 U. S. 61.
It is equally an error to assume that the plaintiffs had not a
substantial and real controversy with the defendant Oaks, and
that their controversy was solely with the Zeldlers. The object
and purpose of the action was to recover possession of the real
estate in the visible and actual occupation of Oaks, and not
otherwise in the possession of his landlord, than by force of his
tenancy The Zeidlers were not citizens of Aissouri, nor residents of the district, and could not have been sued by the plaintiffs. The latter were not bound to look beyond the person
who, by his occupation of the disputed premises, was holding
adversely to their claim, and if the Zeidlers were permitted to
defend, it was for their own interest, and not because they were
either necessary or indispensable parties to the proceeding in
which the plaintiffs were the actors. The controversy, so far
as the Zeidlers were interested in it, was of their own seeking,
and as their rights could not be concluded by a judgment
against the tenant, they were not in a position to insist that the
plaintiffs should forego their legal right to proceed against the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

most convenient defendant. The landlord could defend the
possession of the tenant, as it was his right and duty to do on
notice of the action, but he could do so as well in the name of
the tenant as in his own. At any rate, the plaintiffs had a right
to eject the defendant, who actually and unlawfully withheld
from them possession of their lands, and it is not correct to say
that the controversy in law is with the landlord in virtue of
whose claim of title the wrongful possession is maintained.
M]fuch less can the plaintiff's right to prosecute his action in the
courts of the United States, once vested, be defeated by imposing upon him an adversary against whom he cannot maintain
the jurisdiction of these tribunals.
Undoubtedly it was the duty of the Circuit Court in this case
to give effect to the statute of Missouri, as far as it could, but
not at the expense of its jurisdiction. "It must be held," as
was said in Erstem v R2othschild, 22 Fed. Rep. 61, 64, "that
the body of the local law thus adopted in the general, must be
considered in the courts of the United States in the light of
their own system of jurisprudence, as defined by their own constitution as tribunals, and of other acts of Congress on the same
subject. It can hardly be supposed that it was the intent of
this legislation to place the courts of the United States in each
State, in reference to their own practice and procedure, upon
the footing merely of subordinate State courts, required to look
from time to time to the Supreme Court of the State for authoritative rules for their guidance in those details. To do so,
would be, in many cases, to trench, in important particulars not
easy to foresee, upon substantial rights, protected by the peculiar constitution of the Federal judiciary, and which might seriously affect, in cases easily supposed, the proper correlation and
independence of the two systems of Federal and State judicial
tribunals."
It was quite proper, therefore, for the Circuit Court to admit
the landlord as a party, for the purpose of defending his tenant's possession, and through that, his own title, and to this
end, he might not only be permitted to appear as a party to the
record and codefendant, but to control the defence as dommnus
litis, raising and conducting such issues as his own rights and

'EX PARTE ROYALL.
Syllabus.

And this need not arrest or interfere
with the jurisdiction of the court, already established by the
plaintiffs against the tenant in possession. For such proceedings should be treated as incidental to the jurisdiction thus acquired, and auxiliary to it, as in like cases, in equity, one interested in the subject-matter, though a stranger to the litigation,
may be allowed to intervene pro tteresse suo. Xrzppendorfv.
Hyde, 110 U. S. 276.
In this view, the Circuit Court was right m admitting the
Zeidlers as codefendants, but there was error m remanding the
cause to the State court. For this error,
.The judgment complaned of w reversed, and the cause s
remanded to the Circuit Court with directons to proceed
-n the aotiom accordingto law.
interests might dictate.

EX PARTE ROYALL, No. 1.
EX PARTE ROYALL, No. 2.
APPEALS FROM AND ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Argued January 7, 8, 1S.-Decided March 1, IMsS.

Circuit Courts of the United States have jurisdiction on habeas corpus to discharge'from custody a person who is restrained of his liberty in violation of
the Constitution of the United States, but who, at the time, is held under
State process for trial on an indictment charging him with an offence against,
the laws of the State.
When a person is in custody, under process from a State court of original jurisdiction, for an alleged offence against the laws of such State, andit is claimed
that he is restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the
United States, the Circuit Court of the United States has a discretion
whether it will discharge him in advance of his trial in the court in which
he is indicted; but this discretion should be subordinated to any special
circumstances requiring immediate action. After conviction of the accused in the State court, the Circuit Court has still a discretion whether he
shall be put to his writ of error to the highest court of the State, orwhether
it will proceed by writ of habeas corpus summarily to determine whether
he is restrained of his liberty in violation of the Constitution of the United
States.
VOL. cxvIT-16

