OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

mon with others), in reference to the particular tobacco which
they declared it to be their intention to export. With regard
to that, in order to identify it, and to protect the government
from fraudulent practices, all that was required of the plaintiffs was to affix a 25 cent stamp of a peculiar design to each
package, no matter how much it might contain, and enter into
bond either to export it according to the declared intention, or
to pay the regular tax, if it should not be exported. In this
view of the case, the plaintiffs not only had no ground of complaint, but they were really the objects of favorable treatment
on the part of the government, which, on the slight and easy
conditions referred to, accepted their declared intention to
export the tobacco in question, before it was commenced to be
exported, or put in the way of exportation.
On both grounds we are satisfied that the plaintiffs are
without any cause of action, and the judgment of the Circuit
Court is
Afirmed,

IMA.HOMET v. QUACKENBUSH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT
SOUTHERN

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

DISTRICT OF ILLIN6OIS.

Submitted March 8, 1896.-Decided April 5, 1886.

The requirement of the Constitution of Illinois that "no private or local law
which may be passed by the geueral assembly shall embrace more than one
subject, and that shall be expressed in the title," is satisfied if the law has
but one general object, and that object is expressed m the title and the body
of the act isgermane to the title.
A statute of Illinois which was entitled "An Act to amend the articles of association of the Danville et cet. Railroad Company, and to extend the powers
of and confer a charter upon the same," and which, in the body of the act,
authorized incorporated townships along the route to subscribe to its capital
stock on an assenting vote of a majority of the legal voters, and further legalized assents of voters of certain townships given at meetings held previous
to the passage of the act, complied with the reqnirement of the Constitution
of that State that "no private or local law which may be passed by the
general assembly shall embrace more than one subject, and that shall be
expressed in the title."

MAROMET v. QUACKENBUSH.
Opinon of the Court.
AnddrsoM v. Santa Anna, 116 U. S. 856, affirmed.
Schuyler County v. Rock Island & Alton .RaiTroad Co., 25 Ill.182,
O'Leary v. Cook County, 28 Ill. 543, approved and applied.
Welch v. Post, 99 111. 474, questioned.

and

The case is stated m the opinion of the court.
. ' John 21c.Multa and -3fr 1. A.

_emon for plaintiff in

error.
l7 T C. -3fatherfor defendant in error.
WArTE delivered the opinion of the court.
The facts of this case are identical with those of Anderson v.
SaWa Anna, 116 U: S. 356, except that here *the bonds were
issued by one township on the line of the Danville, Urbana,
Bloomington and Pekin Railroad, and there by another. The
bonds in the two cases are the same in form and the statutory
authority for their issue the same. All questions actually decided in the other case are concluded in this, but one point is
made now that was not lresented then, and it arises on these
facts
Art. 3, § 23 of the fllinois Constitution of 1848, which was
m force when the statutes on which the case depends were
passed, contained this provision.
"And no private or local law which may be passed by the
general assembly shall embrace more than one subject, and that
shall be expressed in the title."
The act of 1867, under which the bonds were issued, was a
private or local law with the following title
"An Act to amend the articles of association of the Danville,
Urbana, Bloomington and Pekin Railroad Company, and to
extend the powers of and confer a charter upon the same."
The parts of 'the act pertinent to the present enquiry are §§
1, 12, and 13. These are as follows
"§ 1. Be it enacted by the people of the State of Illinois Pe_presented,in the General Assembly, That the said corporation is
hereby created a body politic and corporate under the name
and style of ' The DbLnville, Urbana, Bloomington and Pekin.
:9R. CHIEF JusTIcE

OCTOBER TERM, is85.
Opinon of the Court.

IRailroad Company,' &c. And the said company is authorized
and empowered to locate, construct and complete a railroad,
extending from the city of Pekin, in Tazewell County, Illinois, through or as near as practicable to the towns of Tremont,
Mackinawtown, Concord, Bloomington, Leroy, Mount Pleasant,
Mahomet, Champaign City, Urbana and St. Joseph to the east
boundary of the State of Illinois," &c.
"§ 12. To further aid in the construction of said road by
said company, any incorporated town or township in counties
acting under the township organization law, along the route of
said road, may subscribe to the capital stock of said company
n any sum not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
"§ 13. No such subscription shall be made until the question
has been submitted to the legal voters of such incorporation,
town, or township in which the subscription is proposed to be
made; and the clerk of each of said towns or townships is
hereby required, upon the presentation of a petition signed by
at least ten citizens, who are legal voters and tax-payers of such
town or township for which he is clerk, and in which petition
the amount proposed to be subscribed shall be stated, to post
up notices in at least three public places in each town or township, which notice shall be posted not less than thirty days before the day of holding such election, notifying the legal voters
of such town or township to meet at the usual place of holding
elections in such town or township, or some other convenient
place named in such notice, for the purpose of voting for or
against such subscription .Provded,that where elections may
have already been held, and a majority of the legal voters of
any township or incorporated town were in favor of a subscription to said railroad, then, and in that case, no other election
need be had, and the amount so voted for shall be subscribed
as in this act provided. And such elections are hereby declared
to be legal and valid, as though this act had been in force at
the time thereof, and all the provisions hereof had been complied with."
The point now made is that the statute, so far as it undertakes
to authorize municipalities to subscribe to the capital stock

MAttOMET v. QUACKENBUSH.
Opimon of the Court.

of the corporatibn,'is unconstitutional, because it embraces two
distinct subjects, one-the incorporation of the railroad company,
and the other an enlargement of the corporate powers of municipal corporations, the first of which alone is expressed in the
title. This objection, it seems to us, is fully disposed of by the
case of the Supervzsors qf Schuyler County v. Rock Island &
Alton Railroad Company, 25 Ill. 181, 183, decided by the Supreme Court of Illinois in 1860. There the title was "An Act
to incorporate the Rock Island & Alton Railroad Company,"
and the act, besides incorporating the company, authorized
counties to subscribe to the stock. As to this the court said,
speaking through Chief Justice Caton. "We think the title of
this act sufficient to embrace the whole of the law, and that it
is a compliance with the constitutional requirement. All the
provisions of the act are appropriately designed to carry out
the object of the corporation. If it was proper to authorize
subscriptions to the stock, it was certainly proper to enable
individuals or counties to subscribe and specify the terms and
conditions on which they might subscribe, and the mode of
making the subscription."
In States where constitutional provisions like that now under
consideration have been decided to be mandatory, and not
directory only, it has generally been held that the requirement
is satisfied if the law has but one general object, and that is
clearly expressed in the title. It is enough if the body of the
act is germane to the title. This is certainly the well established
rule in Illinois, where, as was said by Mr. Justice BBreese, dissenting in O'Leary v. County of Cook, 28 Ill. 534, decided in
1862, the "court has leaned rather in favor of the validity of
private acts, when the subjects of the acts are multifarious."
In that case a provision in a law entitled "An Act to amend an
act entitled 'An Act to incorporate the North Western University,'" which prohibited "the sale of spirituous liquors within
four miles of the university, under a special penalty to be recovered by the County of Cook," was held by a majority of
the court not to be repugnant to this provision of the Constitution, and it was said, "The object of the charter was to create an institution for the education of young men, and it was

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

competent for the legislature to embrace within it everything
which was designed to facilitate that objeet. Every provision
which was intended to promote the well being of the institution,
or its students, was within the proper subject matter of that
law" p. 538. As early as 1853 it was decided m Belleville, c.,
Railroad Company v Gregory, 15 Ill. 20, 29, that in "An Act
to incorporate the Belleville and Illinoastown Railroad Company," authority could be given the company "to extend and
unite with any other railroad in this State." So, too, in Firemenws Benevolent Association v Lounsbury, 21 Ill. 511, it was
held, in 1859, that, in a law entitled "An Act to incorporate the
Firemen's Benevolent Association and for other purposes," it
was competent to provide that the agents of all foreign
insurance companies doing business in Chicago should pay the
association two dollars on every hundred dollars of premiums
received by them during a year, the court simply remarking on
this branch of the case, "We think the sixth section germane
to the objects of the bill and embraced properly in the same
subject, the whole of which is sufficiently expressed in the title."
p. 515. The same general principle has been fully recognized
and enforced in IVejfing v Town of Pontiac,56 Ill. 172, TTe
People v. WTrght, 70 Ill. 388, 396, The People v Brzslin, 80
Ill. 423, where it was said, p. 433, "this court has gone very
far to uphold statutes supposed to be within this objection,"
"the body of the act in question is germane to the title of the
bill," Guild, Jr.,v. City of 6icago,82 Ill. 472 , and Fullerv
The People, 92 Ill. 182, 185. This court also decided to the
same effect in Jonesboro City v Ca'ro & St. ouis Railroad
Co., 110 U. S. 192, 199. as to a similar provision in the Illinois
Constitution of 1870.
It is further insisted, however, that if this law is good, so far
as the general authority to subscribe is concerned, it is bad
to the extent that it seeks to give effect to the elections which
were unauthorized at the time they were held, and we are
referred to the cases of Village of Loceport v Gaylord, 61 Ill.
276, and Aiddleport v Jtna Life Ins. Co., 82 Ill. 562, in support of this position. In Lockport v. Gaylordit was decided that
a provision legalizing certain appropriations theretofore made

MAHOMET v. QUACKENBUSH.
Opimon of the Court.

by the president and trustees of the village and certain orders
drawn by the clerk was not germane to the title of "An Act to
amend the charter of the village of Lockport, passed February
12, 1853," and in .ifiddleport v Etna Ins. Co., that authority
to issue bonds in liquidation of appropriations voted under a
prior act was not germane to the title of "An Act to legalize certain aids heretofore voted and granted to aid in the construction" of a proposed railroad. The first of these cases was
decided in 1871, and the last in 1876. In the present case,
however, the provision relates only to the terms and conditions
on which subscription to the stock of the railroad company
might be made, which it was said in Svpervisor. of Schuyler
County v. Rock Is1and and Alton Railroad Go. was germane
to the general subject of a bill to incorporate a railroad conpany It is nothing more nor less than a requirement of a,
vote of the people as authority for the subscription, with a proviso that if the vote had already been taken it need not be takeir
over again. This, as it seems to us, comes within both the letter and spirit of the earlier adjudications, and that these have
not been overthrown by the later cases. We are aware that in
TFelch v. Post, 99 Ill. 471, 474, decided in 1881, the court said
that "bn the authority of liiddleport v . Rtna Insurance Co."
it was "inclined to hold" that power could not be given
to municipal corporations to subscribe to the stock of a railroad company in an act entitled substantially like that now
under consideration, but as neither in this case, nor in that of
fiddlefport v Insurance Co., nor in that of lockport v Gaylord,
was any reference whatever made to the earlier decisions, which
seem to be so decidedly the other way, we do not feel ourselves
called upon to depart from the long-settled practice in the State,
by what has yet been done towards making a change. In fact,
in Fuller v. .The Peov/e, before cited, which was decided eight
years after the lockport Case, and three years after that of
.fid.leport v Ins. Co., the following quotation is made with
approval from Cooley on Constitutional Limitations (1st ed.),
144, § 2 "The general purpose of these provisions is accomplished when &law has but one general object, which is faily
indicated by its title. To require every end and means necesvoL. cxvi-33

OCTOBER TERII, 1885.
Syllabus.

sary or convement for'the accomplishment of this general object to be provided for by a separate act relating to that alone
would not only be unreasonable, but would actually render
legislation impossible." And again, from Sun _wt. In&s. Co.
v. The .Ofayor, 8 N. Y (4 Seld.) 240, 253 "There must be but
one subject, but the mode in -which the subject is treated, or
the reasons which influence the legislature, could not and need
not be stated in the title, according to the letter and spirit of
the constitution."
In Xfont cla v _am.dell, 107 U S. 147, Otoe. County v
Baldwzn, 111 U. S. 1, 16, and Ackley School Dtstrwt v Hall,
113 U. S. 135, we had occasion to consider the same general
question, with the same result, in connection with similar provisions in the constitutions of New Jersey, Nebraska and Iowa
respectively
Finding nothing in this case to distinguish it from Anderson
v. Santa Anna, the judgment is, on that authority,

Aflrmed.

BRUCE & Another v. MANCHESTER & KEENE RAILROAD.
A.PPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Submitted March 22, 18S.-Decided April 5,1886.

The matter in dispute, on winch the jurisdiction of this court depends, is the
matter which isdirectly in dispute in the particular cause in which the

judgment or decree sought to be reviewed has been rendered and the
court is not permitted, for the purpose of determining its sum or value, to
estimate its collateral effect in a subsequent suit between the same or other.
parties.
.Elgznv. Marshall, 106 U. S. 578, affirmed.

This was a motion to dismiss.
opinion of the court.

The case is stated in the

