OCTOBER TERII, 1885.
Syllabus.

sary or convement for'the accomplishment of this general object to be provided for by a separate act relating to that alone
would not only be unreasonable, but would actually render
legislation impossible." And again, from Sun _wt. In&s. Co.
v. The .Ofayor, 8 N. Y (4 Seld.) 240, 253 "There must be but
one subject, but the mode in -which the subject is treated, or
the reasons which influence the legislature, could not and need
not be stated in the title, according to the letter and spirit of
the constitution."
In Xfont cla v _am.dell, 107 U S. 147, Otoe. County v
Baldwzn, 111 U. S. 1, 16, and Ackley School Dtstrwt v Hall,
113 U. S. 135, we had occasion to consider the same general
question, with the same result, in connection with similar provisions in the constitutions of New Jersey, Nebraska and Iowa
respectively
Finding nothing in this case to distinguish it from Anderson
v. Santa Anna, the judgment is, on that authority,

Aflrmed.

BRUCE & Another v. MANCHESTER & KEENE RAILROAD.
A.PPEAL

FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
Submitted March 22, 18S.-Decided April 5,1886.

The matter in dispute, on winch the jurisdiction of this court depends, is the
matter which isdirectly in dispute in the particular cause in which the

judgment or decree sought to be reviewed has been rendered and the
court is not permitted, for the purpose of determining its sum or value, to
estimate its collateral effect in a subsequent suit between the same or other.
parties.
.Elgznv. Marshall, 106 U. S. 578, affirmed.

This was a motion to dismiss.
opinion of the court.

The case is stated in the

BRUCE v. MANCHESTER & KEENE RAILROAD. 515
Opmion of the Court.

3fi. Frank TV Hackett and
tion.

f.r J W Fellows for the mo-

._r F A. Brooks opposing.
M n. CHIEF

JUSTICE WAirrE delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit, at the time of the decree appealed from. was by
Alexander Bruce, a citizen of Illinois, and William Shepard, a
citizen of ]assachusetts, against the Manchester and Keene
Railroad, a New Hampshire corporation, to collect interest
due on certain bonds of the railroad by the foreclosure of a
mortgage made to trustees to secure a series of bonds amounting in the aggregate to $500,000. There were other parties,
both plaintiff and defendant, when the suit was begun, but a
discontinuance was entered before the decree as to all but
these. The bill was filed in behalf of the complainants and
all other like creditors, not citizens of New Hampshire, who
might come in and contribute to the expenses, but no such
creditors had come in or connected themselves with the suit
in any way at the time of the decree. The railroad filed
an answer, and upon final hearing the bill was dismissed. The
record shows that the complainant Bruce owned bonds for
$7500, on which interest, was past due and unpaid to 'the
amount of not more than $3000; and Shepard $1000 of bonds,
on which not more than $400 of interest was due. After the
bill was dismissed the coiplainants, Bruce and Shepard, took
a joint appeal, which the railroad now moves to dismiss because the value of the matter in dispute does not exceed

$5000.
This motion must be granted. The case comes clearly
within the rule established in 'gin v .farshull, 106 U. S.
578, in which it was decided that the matter in dispute, on
which our jurisdiction depends, is "the matter which is directly in dispute in the particular cause in which the judgment
or decree sought to be reviewed has been rendered," and that
we are not permitted, "for the purpose of determining its sum
or value, to estimate its collateral effect in a subsequent suit
between the same or other parties." Although the principal

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

of the bonds owned by one of the complainants exceeds $5000,
the suit is brought -to recover only the interest, which is less.
These complainants are in no way authorized to represent the
other bondholders. They sued for themselves and all others
in like situation who might join with them, but no one saw fit
to join. They were allowed to proceed alone, and the payment
to them of their interest would have been a bar to the further
prosecution of the suit. So, if a decree had been rendered in
their favor without others joining in the suit, either by petition
or by proof before a master, or otherwise, it would have been
satisfied by the payment of the amount found due to them,
and no further proceedings could thereafter be had. It is true,
if such a payment should not be made, and a resort to a sale
of the mortgaged property should be necessary to collect what
was due to them, the other bondholders would have an interest
in the proceeds and could be called in before a master for that
purpose; but that would be only one of the collateral or indirect effects of the decree not to be considered in determining
our jurisdiction. On the case as it stood when the bill was
dismissed, the only matter directly involved was the right of
Bruce and Shepard to have the mortgaged property sold to
pay the several amounts due them respectively for interest on
their bonds. This is all that has been denied. It follows that
the matter in dispute here is less than our jurisdictional limit.
Diomzssed.

EX PARTE FONDA.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted March 22, 186.-Decided April 5, 1886.

A petition for a writ of habeas corpus alleged that the petitioner had been
convicted in a Circuit Court of the State of Michigan of embezzling the
funds of a National Bank, and set forth various reasons why the conviction

should be held to be in contravention of the Constitution and laws of the
United States, but it showed no reason why the Supreme Court of the State
might not review the judgment, or why it should not be permitted to do so
without interference by the courts of the United States" Reld, That leave
to file the petition should be denied.

