TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTH.
Statement of Facts.

up his home there at that time and actually did so. Such being
the case, it was not error to refuse to charge the jury that this
was not the fact. It is not for us to decide that the jury
brought in a wrong verdict under a correct charge if the record
shows, as it does, that there was some evidence to support the
finding which was made.
We see no error in the admission of the affidavit in evidence.
The affidavit having been filed in the cause by the company as
a ground for obtaining an order of the court in its favor, was
competent evidence against it on the trial of another issue, and
the fact that it was sworn on information and belief affected
only its weight and not its competency Pope v Allis, 115
U S. 363.
After the verdict the court had nothing to do but to remand
the suit, its order to that effect is consequently
Affimed.
-

TE=IYESSEE v. WR1ITWORTH.
ERROR TO

THE CIRUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued January 22, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.

A State statute incorporating a railroad company, which provides that the capital stock of the company shall be forever exempt from taxation and that
the road with all its fixtures and appurtenances shall be exempt from taxation for the period of twenty years and no longer, exempts the road its
fixtures and appurtenances from taxation only for the term named in the
act; but forever exempts shares in the capital stock of the company, in the
hands of the various holders, from taxation in the State.
When two railroad corporations, whose shares are by a State statute exempt
from taxation in the State, consolidate themselves into a new company under a State law which makes no provision to the contrary, and issue shares
in the new company in exchange for shares in the old company, the right
of exemption from taxation in the State passes into the new shares, and into
each of them.

This was a suit in mandamus brought by the State of Tennessee, in the Circuit Court of Davidson County, against
VOL. Cxvn-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

George K. Whitworth, the trustee and tax collector of that
county, to require him to assess for taxation the shares of
stock in the Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis Railroad
Company After the suit had been began in the State court
it was removed by Whitworth to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Tennessee, under the
act of March 3, 1875, ch. 137, 18 Stat. 470, on the ground that
the suit was one arising under the Constitution of the United
States.
The case was as follows The Nashville and Chattanooga
Railroad Company, now, by consolidation with the Nashville and Northwestern Railroad Company and a change of
name, the Nashville Chattanooga and St. Louis Railroad Company, was incorporated by the Legislature of Tennessee, December 11, 1845, to build and operate a railroad. Section 38
of its charter was in these words
"Sxc. 38. The capital stock of said company shall be forever
exempt from taxation, and the road with all its fixtures and
appurtenances, including workshops, warehouses, and vehicles
of transportation, shall be exempt from taxation for the period
of twenty years from the completion of the road, and no
longer."
The act incorporating the Nashville and Northwestern
Railroad Company contained a provision identical with this.
The question was whether this provision had the effect of a
contract by the State for the exemption from taxation in Tennessee of the shares of the capital stock of the corporation.
The capital stock was by the charter divided into shares of
$25 each, to be subscribed for on books opened for that purpose. It was also provided that, as soon as the requisite number of shares had been subscribed, "the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Company shall be regarded as formed," and
"the said subscribers to the stock shall form a body politic and
corporate in deed and in law by the name and for the purpose"
specified. Fifty cents on each share was to be paid in money
at the time of subscribing.
Sections Nine, Twelve, Fifteen, Sixteen, and Seventeen were
as follows

TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTH.
Statement of Facts.
"SEC. 9. As soon as the number of forty thousand shares
shall have been subscribed, it shall be the duty of the commissioners appointed to declare the same, to appoint a time for the
stockholders to meet in Nashville, and give notice thereof by
publication in some of the ,newspapers of Nashville, at which
time and place the said stockholders, in person or by proxy,
shall proceed to elect the directors of the company, and to
enact all such regulations, rules, and by-laws as may be necessary for the government of the corporation and the transaction
of its business. The persons elected directors at this meeting
shall serve for such period, not exceeding one year, as the
stockholders may direct, and at this meeting the stockholders
shall fix on the day and place or places where the subsequent
elections of directors shal le held, and such elections shall
thenceforth be annually made. But if the day of annual election should pass without any election of directors, the corporation shall not oe thereby dissolved, but it shall be lawful on
any other day to hold and make such election in such manner
as may be prescribed by a by-law of the corporation."
"SEC. 12. The board of directors shall not exceed, in their
contracts, the amount of the capital of the corporation, and of
the funds which the company may have borrowed and placed
at the disposal of the board, and in case they should do so,
the president and directors who may be present at the meeting
at which such contract or contracts so exceeding the amount
aforesaid shall be made, shall be jointly and severally liable for
the excesses, both to the contractor or contractors and the
corporation. Prowded, that any one may discharge himself
from such liability by voting against such contract or contracts, and causing such vote to be recorded on the minutes of
the board, and giving notice thereof to the next general meeting of the stockholders."
"SEC. 15. The board of directors may call for the payment
of twenty-four and a half dollars on each share of stock in
sums not exceeding two dollars in every thirty days Provuded, that twenty days' notice be given of such call in at least
one public newspaper of the State in which any of the stockholders may reside, and a failure to pay, or secure to be paid,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

according to the rules of the company, any of the instalments
so-called, as aforesaid, shall induce a forfeiture of the share or
shares on which default shall be so made, and all payments
thereon, and the same shall vest in and belong to the company,
and may be restored to the owner or owners by the board of
directors, if they deem proper, on the payment of all arrears on
such shares, and legal interest thereon, or the directors may
waive the forfeiture after thirty days' default, and sue the
stockholders for the instalments due, at their discretion.
"SEC. 16. The stock of said company may be transferred in
such manner and form as may be directed by the by-laws of
the said corporation.
"SEC. 17. The said company may at any time increase its
capital to a sum sufficient to complete the said road, and stock
it with everything necessary to give it full operation and effect,
either by opening books for new stock, or by selling such new
stock, or by borrowing money on the credit of the company,
and on the mortgage of its charter and works and the manner in which the same shall be done ineither case shall be prescribed by the stockholders at a general meeting; and any
State, or any citizen, corporation or company of this or any
other State or country, may subscribe for and hold stock in
said company, with all the rights and subject to all the liabilities of any other stockholder."
On the 21st of January, 1848, but before the corporation was
organized by the election of directors, the charter was amended
as follows
"SEC. 3. Be it enacted, That the charter of the company be
further so amended that the said company be required to estimate and pay semi-annually to the several holders thereof a
sum equal to six per cent. per annum on the capital stock of
said company actually paid in, to be charged to the cost
of construction Provded, a majority of the stockholders at
their first regular meeting agTee thereto."
The Circuit Court was of opinion that the shares of stock
were by the charter exempt from taxation, and gave judgment
accordingly To reverse that judgment this writ of error was
brought.

TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTH.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

-Mr Samuel Watson, .-Fr f B. HYeell and 3r James -M.
Head for plaintiff in error.
I. The capital stock of a corporation is a distinct thing from
the shares of stock, and owned by different persons. The exemption of one does not necessarily exempt the other from
taxation. Farrington v Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, City of
-emphws v Insley, 6 Baxter, 553, -Nashville Gaslight Co. v
-Vashville, 8 Lea, 406, Van Allen v Assessors, 3 Wall. 573,
People v. Commusswners, 4 Wall. 458, -femphts v. Fa ington, 8 Baxter, 539.
TI. It was not the intention of the legislature, in granting
this charter, that the exemption of the capital stock should
embrace the shares of stock.
1. Circumstances surrounding the legislature, at the time the
charter was granted, show that it had a clear appreciation of
the distinction between capital stock and shares of stock as (a)
Act of 1836 taxing stocks-passed nine years before the act
incorporating the Nashville & Chattanooga Railroad Company (b) Unzon Bank v The State, 9 Yerger, 490, decided in
1836, declaring distinction between capital stock and shares of
stock for taxation purposes. (c) Act of 1844 taxing all stock
of individual resident stockholders in all the incorporated companies in the State.
2. The contract of exemption was made with the railroad
company, and not with the stockholders. The word "company " is used in the charter.
3. The words "capital stock" are not used in the charter as
synonomous with "shares" of stock.
4. Nor is there any substantial distinction between "capital
stock" and "capital" as used in the charter. Railroad Co. v
Gaines, 97 U S. 697, M.femphts & Charleston Railroad Co. v
Gasnes, 3 Tenn. Cb. 604, 611, Chattanooga v. Railroad Co., 7
Lea, 561.
5. Although the shares of stock and the property of the company be taxed, it yet has a valuable privilege left in the exemption of the capital stock. Iouzsville & .vashville Railroad
Co. v State, 8 Eeiskell, 663, 795, State Railroad Tax Cases
92 U. S. 603, Fa-mngton v. Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Plamtiff in Error.

legislature may tax capital stock, as such, separately Such
a tax would be, not a property tax. but in the nature of a
privilege tax. -DelawareRailroad Tax Cases, 18 Wall. 206.
Bank of Commerce v. New York City, 2 Black, 620, 628,
People v Home Insurance Co., 92 N. Y 328.
6. No reliance can be placed by defendant upon contemporaneous construction, because the stock has never been
taxed. Mere nonuser of the taxing power by the State does
not destroy the power, or form any reason for not exercising- it.
C]iwago, Burlington & Quncy Railroad Co. v Iowa, 94 U S.
155.
III. The State has the power to tax the stock of nonresident
stockholders.
1. Act of February 4, 1848, taxing stock owned by nonresident stockholders , passed before any subscriptions had
been made by nonresidents.
(a) Changed by implication.
Code, section 541, subsections 7, 9, 10. (b) Changed back to
taxation of stock of nonresidents, Acts of March 7, 1869,
March 25, 1873, and now the law of -the State.
2. Legislature may fix the s'tus of personal property
Green
v Van Buskirk, 5 Wall. 307, and 7 Wall. 139.
3. Whatever property the State can, through its courts, seize
and validly deprive the owner of his title thereto, such property it can subject to taxation.
Cooper v. Reynolds, 10 Wall.
308, Miller v United States, 11 Wall. 268.
4. Not only has the legislature the power to change or
destroy the legal fiction that movables follow the person,
but for purposes of taxation this fiction does not exist.
Hoyt v Commsszoners, 23 N. Y 224, People v Smith, 88
1t. Y 576, People-v Gardner, 51 Barb. 352, Catlin v
Tull, 21 Vt. 152, People v Home Insurance Co., 29 Cal. 533,
.Xlaltby v Reading & Columbza Railroad Co., 52 Penn. St.
140, State Tax on Foreign-h]eld Bonds, 15 Wall. 300, Rail'road Co. v. Jackson, 7 Wall. 262, .furray v Carleston, 96
U S. 432, Railroad Co. v Collector, 100 U S. 595.
5. Stock in a corporation has an actual situs, the place where
the corporation is located. Ohio & Afisszssyp Railroad Co. v.
WTheeler, 1 Black, 286, .Mfuller v Dows, 94 U. S. 444, Milayor,

TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTH.
O.mion of the Court.

etc., of .lrashvillev Thomas, 5 Coldwell, 600, 604, Bedford v
-fayor, etc., of 'Yashville,' I-eiskell, 409, 412, .HationalBank
v Commonwealth, 9 Wall. 353, Tappan v. -Merchants'Bank,
19 Wall. 460, -Faxon v. iToCosh. 12 Iowa, 527.
.rM Edward IT East for defendant in error.
Mi?. CmEF JUsTI E WArTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

After stating the facts as above reported, he, continued
It is apparent from the charter that the subscribers of shares
and those claiming under them were to be the holders of the
stock of the corporation, and that the money paid into the
treasury upon subscriptions was to be used by the corporation
m building and equipping its railroad. In this way the capital
of the corporation was to be converted into the railroad and
its appurtenances. A tax upon the railroad, therefore, after its
completion, is necessarily a tax upon the capital, because,
prac ically, the capital and that into which it has been converted are the same. The railroad of the corporation may be
worth more than its capital, but all its capital is in its railroad.
Such being the case, the taxation of both railroad and capital
would be, so far as the corporation is concerned, double taxation.
In Railroad Compan'es v Gatnes, 91 U. S. 697, it was held
that a provision in the charter of the Memphis & Charleston
Railroad Company, precisely like that now under consideration, did not exempt the railroad of that corporation and its
appurtenances from taxation after twenty years from the time
of its completion, even though the capital stock of the corporation had all been invested in the railroad, because, taking the
whole section together, it was apparent such was not the intention of the legislature. The property was taxable, but the
capital stock was exempt.
It is no doubt true that the legislature may make a difference, for the purposes of taxation, between the capital stock
of a corporation in the hands of the corporation itself, and the
shares of the same capital stock in the hands of the individual
stockholders. That has often been done, and the cases are

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

numerous where the exemption of shares from taxation has
been claimed because of a charter exemption of the capital stock.
Notably this was the case with the national banks. The capital
stock of such banks invested in United States securities is not
taxable by the States, but shares of the stock in the hands of
the individual stockholders may be taxed without deduction on
account of such an investment. This has been held from the beginning. 7cn
a Allen v The Assessors, 3 Wall. 573, Bradley
v. The People, 4 Wall. 459, 462, The People v The Commzsszoners, 4 Wall. 244, -L'onbergerv .Rouse, 9 Wall. 46S. The
capital stock in the hands of the bank is exempt because invested in securities which are not to be taxed, Rev Stat. § 3701,
but the shares in the hands of the stockholders are, by the
very terms of the banking act, put, for the purposes of State
taxation, on the same footing as other moneyed capital. Rev
Stat. § 5219. This, it was said, showed the intention of Congress to exempt the bank for what was invested in government
securities, but to charge the stockholder. In .Farrzmgton v
Tennessee, 95 U. S. 679, the charter of the Union and Planters'
Bank provided that "said company shall pay to the State an

annual tax of one-half of one per cent. on each share of the
capital stock subscribed,. which shall be in lieu of all other
taxes," and the question was, whether this exempted the shares
in the hands of the stockholders from any further taxation by
the State. The court, three Justices dissenting, held that it
did, because, as the charter tax was laid on each share subscribed, the further exemption must necessarily have been of
the shares in the hands of the holders, although the tax as imposed was payable by the corporation. In all cases of this
kind the question is as to the intent of the legislature, the presumption always being against any surrender of the taxing
power.
In corporations four elements of taxable value are sometimes found 1, franchises, 2, capital stock in the hands of the
corporation, 3, corporate property, and, 4, shares of the capital stock in the hands of the individual, stockholders. Each of
these is, under some circumstances, an appropriate subject of
taxation, and it is no doubt within the power of a State, when

TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTH.
Opinion of the Court.

not restrained'by constitutional limitations, to assess taxes
upon them in a way to subject the corporation or the stockholders to double taxation. Double taxation is, however,
never to be presumed. Justice requires that the burdens of
government shall as far "asis practicable be laid equally on all,
and, if property is taxed once in one way, it would ordinarily
be wrong to tax it again in another way, when the burden of
both taxes falls on the same person. Sometimes tax laws
have that effect, but if they do, it is because the legislature has
unmistakably so enacted. All presumptions are against such
an imposition.
This brings us to an examination of the present charter to
see what the legislature has expressed its intention of doing.
"The capital stock of said company" is exempt from taxation.
That has been expressly enacted, and the owner or owners of the
stock are necessarily relieved from all taxation on this account.
The important question is, therefore, who are the owners of
the capital stock of this corporation within the meaning of the
term "capital stock" as used in this charter, because, in construng statutes which are binding on States as contracts, the
words employed are, if possible, to be given the same meaning
they had in the innds of the parties to the contract when the
statute was enacted. In this respect there is no difference
between a contract of a State and a contract of a natural person. If the words employed are capable of more than one
meaning, that meaning is to be given them which, taking the
whole statute together, it is apparent the parties intended they
should have.
Returning to the charter, we find that the "capital stock"
is divided into shares. These shares are to be subscribed and
paid for, and the money raised in this way constitutes the
"capital" of the corporation spoken of in section 12, where it
is said, "the board of directors shall not exceed in their contracts the amount of the capital of the corporation," &c., and
in section 17, where it is provided "that said company may at
any time increase its capital to a sum sufficient to complete
the said road." This capital is to be used by the corporation
to build and equip its road, and if more capital is needed for

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

that purpose it may be raised "by opening books for new
stock, or by selling such new stock." The manner of doing
this may "be prescribed by the stockholders at a general
meeting; and any State, or any citizen, corporation or commay subscribe for and hold stock in the said
pany,
company, with all the rights and subject to all the liabilities of
any other stockholder." Sec. 17. Payments of subscriptions
are to be made on each share of stock, and if default is made
in a payment when demanded "the share or shares on which
default shall be so made and all payments thereon" are forfeited, "and the same shall vest in and belong to the company," but the board of directors may, if they deem proper,
restore them to the "owner or owners," "on payment of all
arrears on such shares and the legal interest thereon." Sec.
15. So, too, "The Stock of said company may be transferred
in such manner and form as may be directed by the by-laws of
the corporation," sec. 16, and, .under the amending act of
1848, interest was to be paid semi-annually at the rate of six
per cent. per annum "to the several holders thereof
on the capital stock of said company actually paid."
From this it is clear to us that while the money paid in by
the subscribers of the shares of the capital stock of the corporation constituted the capital of the corporation which was to be
used in building and equipping the railroad, the stock created
by such subscription and payment was to belong to and
remain as the property of the several holders of the shares so
subscribed and paid for. As was shown in Railroad Com]9anzes v Gamnes, above cited, the words "capital stock of said
company," and the words "the road with all its fixtures and
appurtenances," were used in the charter to describe different
things. The "capital," which upon the payment by the subscribers belonged to the corporation, has been converted into
the railroad and its appurtenances, and it had no separate existence as a taxable thing after the road was built and equipped.
But the "capital stock," divided into shares, subscribed and
paid for by the persons to whom the shares were originally
issued, still has, and was by the charter intended to have, an
existence separate and distinct from the property into which

TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTH.
Syllabus.

the money paid for it has been converted. It can now be
bought, sold, and transferred. Its holders and owners are the
owners of the corporation. They may meet and elect directors, who are to manage its affairs. The profits of the corporation are to be divided among them in proportion "to the stock
each may hold," sec. 30, and upon the dissolution of the corporation they will be entitled to receive in like proportion the
proceeds of what remains of the corporate property after all
the corporation debts and liabilities are -paid or satisfied. In
effect the contributions of subscribers of the shares were
stocked as the capital of the corporation. The aggregate of
the subscriptions made the aggregate of the stock. Each subscriber owned that part of the stock which his shares represented, and the aggregate of the shares represented the aggregate of the stock. It was evidently called the "capital
stock of the company," because it was the stock which,
when subscribed and paid for, furmshed the corporation
with the capital to build its road. As capital it belonged
to the corporation, but as stock it belonged to the several
holders of the shares into which it was divided. The charter
exempted the stock from taxation clearly because the property
which represented the stock had been put in its place as a taxable thing. The exemption is of the thing called the "capital
stock" divided into shares. As the whole thing is exempt, so
must necessarily be its several parts or shares.
It follows that the judgment of the Circuit Court was right,
A.ffrmed.
and it ]s consequently

TENNESSEE v. W ITWORTH.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COuRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
M1IDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued January 22, 1886.-Decided March i, 1M5.
The right to have shares in its capital stock exempt from taxation within the
State is conferred upon a railroad corporation by State statutes granting to
it "all the rights, powers and privileges" or granting it "all the powers

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
and privileges," conferred upon another corporation named, if the latter
corporation possesses by law such right of exemption and there is nothing
in the provision of Art. XI. See. 7 of the Tennessee Constitution of 1884 to
change tins general rule when applied to a statute of that State.
A State statute enacted that a railroad company should "for its government
be entitled to all the powers and privileges, and be subject to all the restrictions and liabilities imposed" upon another railroad company Held,
That the words "for its government" implied for its regulation and control.
When two railroad corporations whose shares are by a State statute exempt
from taxation within the State, and a third company created under the laws
of another State and whose road is in the latter State, consolidate into a
new company and issue strares in the new company in exchange for shares
in the old company, the right of exemption from taxation in the first State
passes into the new shares and into each of them, unless a law of the first
State makes provision to the contrary.

This, like the case between the same parties just decided, ante
129, was a suit in mandamus brought by the State of Tennessee
to require the trustee and tax collector of Davidson County to
assess for taxation the shares of the capital stock of the railroad
company, and the only question not already disposed of was,
whether the Nashville and Decatur Railroad Company had
the same charter contract for the exemption of its capital stock
from taxation as the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Company The facts were these
The Tennessee and Alabama Railroad Company was incorporated by the legislature of Tennessee on the 23d of January,
1852, to build a railroad from Nashville, by the way of Franklin, to the line between Tennessee and Alabama in the direction
of Florence, Alabama. This company was granted by its charter "all the rights, powers and privileges," and subjected "to
all the liabilities and restrictions conferred and imposed upon
the charter of the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Company"
The Central Southern Railroad Company was incorporated
by the legislature of Tennessee on the 30th of November, 1853,
to build a railroad from a point of intersection with the Tennessee and Alabama Railroad at Columbia, by way of Pulaski,
to the Alabama State line, in the direction of Athens and Decatur, Alabama, to connect with any railroad that might be

TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTH.
Statement of Facts.

constructed from Decatur to the State line in the direction of
Pulaski. This company also was given "all the powers and
privileges," and subjected to "all the restrictions and liabilities
prescribed in the charter of the Nashville and Chattanooga
Railroad Company"
The Tennessee and Alabama Central Railroad Company was
incorporated by the legislature of Alabama on the 19th of December, 1853, to build a railroad from -Montevideo, Alabama,
in a northeasterly direction, through Decatur, to some point on
the boundary between Alabama and Tennessee, to connect with
a railroad leading through Pulaski to Columbia, Tennessee. This
company was by its charter authorized "to unite and consolidate into one road all or such part of the said road with any
railroad that may connect with the said Tennessee and Alabama Central Railroad at the Tennessee line."
Each of these corporations completed its railroad in accordance with the requirements of its charter, and on the 19th of
April, 1866, the legislature of Tennessee passed another act,
Acts of Tenn. 1865-6, pp. 217, 220, §§ 5, 6, 9, and 10 of which
are as follows
"SEc. 5. Be itfurther enaoted, That for the purpose of uniting and consolidating the Tennessee and Alabama Railroad
Company and the Central 'Southern Railroad Company into
one, the directors of said companies be, and they are hereby,
authorized to agree upon the terms thereof, and to adopt all
necessary and proper measures, agreements, and obligations
to effect the same Provded,said terms of consolidation, when
perfected by the directors of said companies, shall be submitted
to a vote of the stockholders of said companies, and if assented
to by a majority of the stockholders, the same shall be
binding upon said companies, and that thereafter, and upon
official report thereof to the president of the respective companies and the comptroller of the State, said consolidated
and united companies shall be known and styled the " Nashville and Decatur Railroad Company," by which name it shall
sue and be sued, and be entitled to all the rights and privileges,
and be subject to all the liabilities and restrictions of a body
corporate.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

"SEc. 6. Be it further enacted, That the said Nashville and
Decatur Railroad shall, for its government, be entitled to all
the rights and privileges, and subject to all the restrictions and
liabilities conferred and imposed upon the Nashville and. Chattanooga Railroad Company Promded, that no State aid is
intended to be extended to said Nashville and Decatur Railroad And provmdedfurther, that no new liability to the State
of Tennessee is intended to be imposed hereby upon said Tennessee and Alabama Railroad Company and the Central Southern
Railroad Company"
"SEC. 9. Be it further enacted, That the Tennessee and
Alabama Railroad and the Central Southern Railroad, thus
consolidated, may, through their directors thus elected, be consolidated with the Alabama and Tennessee Central Railroad
upon such terms as may be agreed upon between them, and
approved by the stockholders of said roads, to be hereafter
known as the Nashville and Decatur Railroad, such terms not
to be in conflict in anywise with those herein contained, but
may be supplementary or in addition thereto Proded,the
consolidation herein provided for be approved by act of the
legislature of the State of Alabama, heretofore or hereafter
passed, and said railroad, thus consolidated, may, by their stockholders, regularly convened, upon thirty days' notice in the
newspapers of Nashville and Huntsville, elect directors to serve
them for the term of twelve months, and until their successors
shall be elected.
"Sxc. 10. Be it further enacted, That the capital stock of
said united companies shall be the aggregate amount of their
respective charters, with the addition thereto of -dollars,
and that this act shall take effect from and after its passage."
Under the authority of this act, and of section 22 of the act to
incorporate the Tennessee and Alabama Central Company, the
three companies were "united and consolidated under the
style of the Nashville and Decatur Railroad," upon the terms
indicated in the following resolution confirmed at a convention
of the stockholders
"Resolved, That under the authority delegated to the executive committee by the respective stockholders of the Ten-

TENNESSEE v. WIITWORTI.
Argument for Plaintiff m Error.

nessee and Alabama, Central Southern, and Tennessee and
Alabama Central Railroad Companies, the committee have
agreed that the capital stock of each company shall represent
the value of its road, and that therefore each of the companies
herein mentioned shall surrender to the Nashville and Decatur
Railroad Company, all of its rights, franchises, and property,
the Nashville and Decatur Railroad Company assuming to pay
all debts owing by the several companies, and being hereby
especially pledged to protect all persons who have made themselves individually liable for the debts of any of the several
companies, and that the stockholders of each company shall be
entitled to, and receive credit for, the same amount of stock in
the Nashville and Decatur Railroad Company that they own
in any of the several companies, these constituting and comprising the whole basis of settlement."
This union was afterwards confirmed and declared valid by
the legislatures of Tennessee and Alabama. The capital stock
of the Nashville and Decatur Company was the aggregate of
the stock of all three of the original companies.
Upon these facts the Circuit Court held that the shares of
the capital stock of the Nashville and Decatur Company were
exempt from taxation, and gave judgment accordingly To
reverse that judgment this writ of error was .brought.
-31r Samuel Watson, .Mr James . Head and -l' S. A.
CMarpion for plaintiff in error made the points urged on behalf
of plaintiff in error in Tennessee v TMhtwortlante 129, and the
following points in addition
I. The charter of the Nashville and Decatur Railroad Company confers no exemption from taxation whatever. 1. The
Central Southern and the Tennessee and Alabama Railroad
Companies acquired no exemption from taxation whatever, for
the reason that the grant to them of all the "rights, powers,
and privileges" of the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad
Company was not intended to, and did not carry with it any
exemption from taxation. (a) It has been decided by the Supreme Court of Tennessee that the grant to one company of

OCTOBER TERM,

1885.

Ai!gument for Plamiff in Error.

the "privileges" of another company does not carry an exemption from taxation. TRlson v Ganes, 9 Baxter, 546. (b)This
decision is not contrary to the decisions of this court on that
point. The question has never been definitely raised in any of
the cases decided by this court. Hrmphrey v. Pegues, 16
Wall. 244, Tomlinson v. Branch, 15 Wall. 460, Southwestern
Railroad Co. v. Georgza, 92 U S. 676, Chesapeake & Ohzo
Railroad Co. v. Firgurza, 94 U. S. 7.18, Railroad Co. v.
Gaines, 97 U. S. 697, Railroad 0o. v Georgza, 98 U S. 359,
Railroad Co. v County qf -amblen, 102 U. S. 273, WFilson, v.
Games, 103 U S. 417
II. The consolidation of the Central Southern and the Tennessee and Alabama Railroad Companies worked a dissolution
of those companies, and thereby destroyed whatever exemption
from taxation they may have originally possessed. Railroad
Co. v Georgza, 98 U. S. 359, Shields v. Ohio, 95 U S. 319,
Railroad Co. v .Mlaine,96 U. S. 499, St. Louts, &c., Railway
Co. v Berry, 113 U. S. 465.
III. The new company, the Nashville and Decatur Railroad
Company, derived all its rights and privileges from the act of
April 19, 1866, creating it a corporation. That act declares
that the company "for its government be entitled to all the
rights and privileges" of the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Company It was not the intention of the legislature to
confer upon the new company any exemptions from taxation
whatever. The Nashville and Decatur Railroad Company was
not incorporated for the purpose of building a new road, but
of taking charge of, and operating, a road already constructed
and equipped. There could, therefore, have been no motive
on the part of the legislature to grant an exemption from taxation to the new company Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Co. v.
Xiiller, 114 U. S. 176. The words "for its government" in
the Nashville and Decatur Charter are words of limitation, and
definitely exclude the idea of exemption from taxation. Railroad Co. v Gaines, 97 U. S. 697, Railroad Co. v Commssszoners, 103 U. S. 1.
.Jfr Edward Baxter for defendant in error.

TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTH.
Opimon of the Court.
M m
CmEF JusTicE WArrE delivered the opinion of the
court. After stating the facts as above reported, he continued.
The question whether the capital stock of the Nashville and
Decatur Company is entitled to the same exemption as that of
the Nashville and Chattanooga Company depends, 1, on whether
the grant to the Tennessee and Alabama Company of "all the
rights, powers and privileges," and to the Central Southern
Company of "all the powers and privileges" of the Nashville
and Chattanooga Company, carried with it to the new companies the exemption from taxation provided for in section 38 of
the Nashville and Chattanooga charter, and, if it did, 2, whether
the Nashville and Decatur Company and its stockholders are
entitled to the same exemptions as the original Tennessee corporations and their stockholders had.
As early as 1850, before either the charter of the Tennessee
and Alabama Company or that of the Central Southern Company was granted, this court said in Philadelphia,Wilnzngon
& Baltzmore Railroad Co. v .7faryland,10 How 376, 393,
speaking by Mr. Chief Justice Taney, that a statute which
authorized the union of two railroad companies, and secured to
the united company the "property, rights and privileges which
that law, or other laws, conferred on them [the separate companies], or either of them," extended to the united company an
exemption from taxation in the charter of one of the uniting
companies, and this although it was at the same time said that
"the taxing power of a State is never presumed to be relinquished, unless the intention to relinquish is declared in clear
and unambiguous terms."
This has been expressly reaffirmed in Tomlinson v Branch, 15 Wall. 460, Jbumphrey
v regues, 16 Wall. 244, Southwestern Railroad v Georgia,
92 U. S. 676, and the correctness of the decision was recognized in CentralRailroad d- Banking Co. v Georgia, 92 U. S.
665, -forgan v Lousnana, 93 1U. S. 217, Railroad Companies v Gaines, 97 U. S. 697, 711, Railroad Co. v. Georgia,
98 U. S. 359, 360, Railroad Co. v Hamblen, 102 U. S. 273,
277, Railroad Co. v Commissioners, 103 U S. 1, 4,
ilson
v Gaines, 103 U. S. 417, Louisville d- Nashville Railroad Co.
VOL. CxvI-1O

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.
v. Palmes, 109 U S. 244, 253, and Chesapeake & Ohw Railroad Co. v Xiller, 114 U. S. 176, 185.
From this it is clear that, under the settled rule of decision
in this court, the exemption from taxation, which was one of
the "rights and privileges" of the Nashville and Chattanooga
Company, formed part of the charters of the Tennessee and
Alabama Company and the Central Southern Company, unless
a different rule is to be applied in Tennessee, because of a supposed limitation on the popular meaning of the words "rights,"
"powers" and "privileges" when used in statutes, on account of a peculiar provision of the constitution of that State.
That constitutional provision is as follows
"The legislature shall have no power
to pass any
law granting to any individual or individuals rights, privileges,
immunities, or exemptions other than such as may be by the
same law extended to any member of the community who
may be able to bring himself within the provisions of such law
Provided, always, that the legislature shall have power to
grant such charters of corporations as they may deem expedient for the public good." Constitution 1834, Art. XI, sec. 7.
In view of this the Supreme Court of Tennessee decided in
effect, at its December Term, 1877, in Wilson v Games, 9 Baxter, 546, that as the State in its constitution used in the same
connection all the words " rights," "privileges," "immunities,"
and "exemptions," each of these words must be given in statutory interpretation a meaning so limited as not to include anything expressed by the others, and that when any one of them is
found in a statute the legislature must be conclusively presumed
to have used it in this restricted sense. To this we are unable
to agree. As has already been seen, the word "privilege," in
its ordinary meaning, when used in this connection, includes an
exemption from taxation. This court so decided a year before
the charter of the Tennessee and Alabama Company was
granted, and nearly three years before that of the Central
Southern. In fact the Supreme Court of Tennessee does not
seem to doubt that such would be its meaning but for the constitution, for in the opinion it is said, "However comprehensive a meaning may have been given the word 'privilege ' by

TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTtL
OpInion of the Court.

the courts of other States, or by lexicographers, we are constrained to use it in the restricted sense and meaning given it
A legisby our laws and the constitution of the State.
lature acting under this cqnstitution for its powers, and as defining its duties, must be conclusively presumed to have used a
word or term of the constitution in the sense and with the
meaning given it by that constitution." We see nothing in the
constitution which gives to the word "right," or "privilege,"
or "immunity," or "exemption," any different meaning than
that which it has among the people at large. There may be,
and probably are, some immunities, and some exemptions,
which would not be considered as either rights or privileges in
the popular acceptation of those terms. It was to reach such
immunities and such exemptions, as it seems to us, that this
particular form of expression was used in the constitution, and
not to provide that under no circumstances should the word privilege in a statute of Tennessee be held to include a privilege of
exemption from taxation. Words in a constitution, as well as
words in a statute, are always to be given the meaning they
have in common use, unless there are very strong reasons to
the contrary We find no such reasons in this case, and, as an
exenption from taxation is a privilege in the 'popular sense of
that term, we feel ourselves compelled to decide that both the
Tennessee- and Alabama Company and the Central Southern
Company were granted such an exemption by their charters, notwithstanding the contrary opinion of the Supreme
Court of Tennessee, which, although entitled to great respect,
is not binding upon us as authority under the circumstances of
this case.
It only remains to consider whether the INashville and Decatur Company is entitled to the same exemption. When' two
railroad companies unite or become consolidated under the authority of law, the presumption is, until the contrary appears,
that the united or consolidated companyhas all the powers and
privileges, and is subject to all the restrictions and liabilities, of
those out of which it was created. Tomlinson v Br'anchi, 15
Wall. 460, Branch v CMarleston, 92 U. S. 6'i, 682, County of
Scotland v Thomas, 94 U. S. 682, 690, Railroad Co. v .Afasne,

14:8

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
0

Opinion of the Court.

96 U S. 499, 512, Green County v. Conmess, 109 U. S. 104.
From this it follows, that, as the capital stock of both the original Tennessee corporations was exempt from taxation, the
capital stock of the united or consolidated company, formed by
the simple aggregation of that of the two old ones, is also exIs there,
empt, unless it has been provided to the contrary
then, anything in the statute authorizing the union which rebuts this presumption2 , We think there is not. The language relied on to show the contrary intention is this "That
the said Nashville and Decatur Railroad shall, for its government, be entitled to all the powers and privileges, and be subject to all the restrictions and liabilities, conferred and imposed
upon the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Company"
This is the exact language of the corresponding provision in
the charter of the Tennessee and Alabama Company, one of
the original companies, save only that the words "for its government" have been added. As we hold that this was sufficient-to exempt the capital stock of the original companies from
taxation, it follows that the new company is also exempt, unless
the added words were intended as a limitation upon the effect
of the others.
The rule is imperative that a relinquishment of the taxing
Vicksburg, 87reveport &
power is never to be presumed.
Paqjflo Railroad v Dennts, 116 U S. 665. Under this rule,
it was held in Railroad Compa.ntes v. Ganes, 97 U. S. 711,
that the capital stock of the Knoxville and Charleston Railroad
Company, was not exempt from, taxation, although by its
charter that company was (p. 702) "invested, for the purpose
of making and using said road, with all the powers, rights, and
privileges, and subject to all the disabilities and restrictions
that have been conferred and imposed upon the Nashville and
Chattanooga Railroad Company," because (p. 712) "the grant
was not of all the rights and privileges of the Nashville and
Chattanooga Company, but of such as were necessary for the
purpose of making and using the road, or, in other words, the
franchises of the company which do not include immunity
from taxation." To the same effect is Railroad Co. v Commss2oners, 103 U S. 1, where the Annapolis and Elk Ridge Rail-

TENNESSEE o. WHITWORTI.
Opuuon of the Court.

road Company was "invested with all the rights and powers
necessary for the construction and repair" of its railroad, and
for that purpose was to have and use all the powers and privileges, and be subject to all the obligations contained in the
enumerated sections of the Baltimore and Ohio charter. This
we held "was not a grant of all the powers and privileges of
the Baltimore and Ohio Company,
but only of such
as were necessary to carry into effect the objects for which the
new company was incorporated," or, in other -words, "such as
were necessary to the construction, repair, and use of its railroad," and this did not include the privilege of exemption from
taxation.
In all this class of cases the question is one of legislative intent, with a presumption against an intent to grant an exemption from taxation. Here there is no charter of a new corporation with power to build a new railroad. No new taxable
property is created. The legislation contemplates nothing
more than the making of one railroad corporation out of two
old ones, each of which has a completed railroad and the privilege of an exemption of its capital stock from taxation. If
nothing at all had been said about the powers and pri-vileges
of the new corporation, the presumption would have been that
it took all which were possessed by the two original companies
at the time of their union. To rebut this presumption it is
necessary that a contrary intention should appear. The question is not as to a grant of new powers, but as to the taking
away of old ones.
Such being the case, we cannot believe that the phrase "for
its government" in the consolidating act was intended as a
limitation on the powers and privileges of the new corporation.
The natural meaning of the word government in such a connection is regulation and control, and we think it was used in
that sense here. In reality it neither adds to nor takes from
the force of the other words, and simply implies that the new
corporation shall have the same charter rights and privileges,
and be subject to the same charter restrictions and liabilities,
as the Nashville and Chattanooga Company Such were the
charters of the old compames, and such was intended to be the

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opnuon of the Court.

charter of the new, no more, no less. As was said in the court
below, "the government of the corporation embraces every part
of the conduct and business of the company in all its relations
to the State, to the general public, to individuals, to its own
stockholders," and consequently the grant of powers and privileges for its government was in reality the grant of the powers
and privileoes of its corporate entity
Thejifatthat the Tennessee and Alabama Central Company
was/tinder the authority of the consolidating statute brought
i0
the consolidated company does not in our opinion alter
the case in any material respect. No new taxable property
was in fact brought into Tennessee in this way While it
added to the amount of the capital stock of the consolidated
company, it was only because of capital actually invested
before the consolidation in the Alabama railroad, and, taking
the whole statute together, it is apparent to us that the legislature intended to give the new corporation in Tennessee all the
powers and privileges, including exemption from taxation,
which the old corporations were entitled to. In fact we do
not understand it is claimed that the rights of the parties, in
respect to the present question, are changed because the two
original Tennessee companies, after their union, were consolidated with the Alabama corporation.
We cQnclude, therefore, that the capital stock of the Nashville and Decatur Company is exempt from taxation m Tennessee, and consequently, for the reasons stated in the other
case, that the shares cannot be assessed. The judgment of the
court below to that effect is

AIfimed.

