LONG v. BULLARD.
Statement of Facts.

Yi1' A. G

idde for defendant in error.

M. CiEF JUSTICE WArT delivered the opinion of the court.
This judgment is affirmed. There was no evidence whatever in the case tending to prove that the work was done by
Campbell otherwise than under the contract of O'Hare, Himber & Co. He took the place of that firm in the contract so,
far as the work he undertook to do was concerned. Davenport, one of its members, authorized him to do the work and
receive the pay upon vouchers, which he, Davenport, agreed
to sign. It was upon this authority that Campbell entered,
upon the work with the permission of the chief engineer in
charge. In this way he became bound by the terms of the
contract. Under these circumstances, his acceptance of the
allowancemade by the chief engineer for all his present claims
for extra work, as "in full settlement of the above stated
claim," operated as a complete discharge of the District from
all further liability to him on that account. The provision in
the act of the legislative assembly of the District, "that this
receipt shall not debar the above named persons from any right
they may have in any court," clearly applies only to the claim
of Robert Strong & Co. As to all others named in the act,
"the receipt was to be in full of all claims on account of thesaid work."

A4ffir'med.
LONG & WIFE v. BULLARD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA.
Argued April 1, 8S.-Decided April 12, 188.

A discharge in bankruptcy does not release real estate of the bankrupt, assigned
to him as a homestead under the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 5045, from the
lien of a mortgage created by him before the bankruptcy,, to secure a debt
against him which is not proved, nor released under the provisions of Rev.

Stat.

§ 5075.

The material facts appearing in this record were as follows..
In the month of December, 1869, parts of lots 5 and 6,,in

OCTOBER TERMA, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

square 90, of the city of Mifacon, were set off under the laws of
Georgia to Betsey A. Long, the wife of Francis M. Long, as a
homestead. The property was at the time incumbered by a
mortgage made by Francis ALv.
Long to the Ocmulgee Building
Association. Proceedings were afterwards had to foreclose this
mortgage, and to save the property from sale Francis li. Long
applied to Daniel Bullard for a. loan of money This loan was
made at usurious interest, and Long and his wife executed to Bullard their joint note, dated November 18, 1872, for $1220, payable twelve months after date, and conveyed to him the homestead property by a deed absolute on its face as security On the
29th of May, 1873, Francis M,. Long was adjudged a bankrupt,
and on the 15th of April,. 1874, he received his discharge. In
his schedules the debt to Bullard, with its security on the homestead premises, was duly entered. On the 28th of June, 1873,
the same premises were set apart to the bankrupt to be retained
by him under the bankrupt law as being exempt under the
State law from levy and sale upon execution. Bullard did not
prove his debt in the bankrupt proceedings.
On the 9th of February, 1878, Bullard brought suit in the
Superior Court of Bibb County, Georgia, to subject the property
to the payment of his debt. In his bill he alleged that the
money he loaned was used to pay off the prior incumbrance on
the homestead, and he claimed a valid lien on that account.
lie also set fortn the bankruptcy of Francis M. Long, and the
assignment of the property to him under the bankrupt law as
a homestead.
Long and his wife in their answer stated that the deed to
Bullard was void for usury in the debt for which it was given
as security, that only $727.91 of the amount actually lent by
Bullard was used to pay off the prior incumbrance, that the
money was lent to the husband and not to the wife, and that
the husband had been discharged in bankruptcy Upon these
facts, it was insisted that the homestead rights of lvfrs. Long
and her children were superior to the claim of Bullard under
his conveyance, and that the property could not be sold to pay
him.
'Upon the trial the court charged the jury, in substance, that

LONVG v. BUT-LLARD.
Statement of F acts.

there could be no personal recovery against the husband upon
the note, but that the property could be subjected to the payment of the amount due, as the discharge of Long in bankruptcy did not release the lien of the mortgage. This was excepted to by the Longs. A verdict was returned in favor of
Bullard for the amount of money actually lent, excluding the
usurious interest. Thereupon the Longs moved for a new trial,
on the ground, among others, of error in the instructions to the
jury as to the effect of the discharge in bankruptcy This motion was granted, but only because the property was subjected
to the payment of a larger sum than was used to pay off the
prior incumbrance. From the order granting a new trial, Bullard took a writ of error to the Supreme Court, where it was
adjudged, April 19, 1882, that the judgment of the Superior
Court granting the new trial be affirmed, "unless the plaintiff
in error will write off from his verdict in the court below the
sum of three hundred dollars." The only questions decided on
t1is writ of error, as shown by the opinion, were such as related
to the right of Bullard to recover the full amount of, his loan,
instead of the amount used to pay off the incumbrance on the
homestead.
When the case got back to the trial court the specified
amount was "written off," and a decree entered accordingly
for a sale of the property to pay what remained due according
to the verdict as reduced. Francis M. Long thereupon excepted
to the decree, among other things, because the property ordered to be sold "constitutes and is his homestead, exempted,
set apart, and secured to him by the bankrupt court of the
'United States
in a bankruptcy proceeding in that
court,
as against this said debt of complainant's, and
all others of said defendant then existing,
said homestead being set apart, allowed, and secured to the defendant,
then bankrupt, under and by virtue of § 5045 of the Revised
Statutes,
and which said exemption was valid against
said debt of said complainant under and by virtue of said act
of Congress, and said part of said decree charging said exemption with the payment of said debt of complainant's and directing a sale
is in contravention and in violation of that

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

act of Congress," and because the decree charging the property with the debt "is in violation of his discharge in bankruptcy
as shown in the record and proceedings in this cause, and his
rights under the same as declared by and set out in § 5119 of
the Revised Statutes,
and is in conflict with and in
derogation of that act of Congress." Another writ of error
from the Supreme Court was thereupon sued out by Francis I.
Long and Betsey A. Long, but the court being of the opinion
"that the judgment pronounced in this case when it was here
at the last term was conclusive on the questions there presented, and that the decree in the court below now excepted to
was in conformity with that judgment, and that a failure on
the part of Long and wife to except to the overruling of these
motions for a new trial, on the other grounds than that on
which it was allowed, was conclusive against them, and could
not now be reopened," affirmed the decree. To reverse that
judgment this writ of error was brought.
M21r T B. Greshamfor plaintiffs in error.
Xr Clifford Anderson, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JusTicE WArmr, after stating the case as above
reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
It perhaps sufficiently appears that a determination of the
question, as to the effect of the discharge in bankruptcy upon
the right of Bullard to enforce a lien upon the property in existence at the time of the commencement of the proceedings in
bankruptcy, was necessarily involved in the decision of the Supreme Courtwhich is here under revew, and that this decision
was adverse to the right set up by Long. This being the case,
we have jurisdiction, but there cannot be a doubt of the correctness of the decision. By § 5119 of the Revised Statutes the
discharge releases the bankrupt only from debts which were or
might have been proved, and by § 5075 debts secured by mortgage or pledge can only be proved for the balance remaining
due after deducting the value of the security, unless all claim
upon the security is released. Here the creditor neither proved

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. McELLIGOTT.

621

Syllabus.

his debt in bankruptcy nor released his lien. Consequently his
security was preserved notwithstanding the bankruptcy of his
debtor. .Aeffenry v. Lc& Sooet4 .Franpamse,95 U. S. 58, Dudley
v. Easton, 104 U S. 99, 103, Porterv 1azear, 109 iT. S. 84,
.86. The dispute in the court below was as to the existence of
the lien at the time of the commencement of the proceedings
in bankruptcy That depended entirely on the State laws, as
to which the judgment of the State court is final and not subject to review here,
The setting apart of the homestead to the bankrupt under
§ 5045 of the Revised Statutes did not relieve the property
from the operation of.liens created by contract before the bankruptcy It is not the decree in this case which constitutes the

lien on the property, but the conveyance of Long and wife
before the bankruptcy
The judgment is

Affirmed.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA v. MoELLIGOTT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF cOLUMBIA.
Argued March 4, IMSS.-Decided March 09,186.

A supervisor of county roads in the District of Columbia was repairing them
with a force of laborers, one of whom was at work on a bank of gravet.
There was evidence tending to show that he discovered that the bank was
in an unsafe condition, and asked the supervisor for a man to watch it,
and received assurance that such assistance would be given, and that it
was not given. The laborer continued to work there for half a day, when
the bank fell upon, and seriously injured him. He brought suit against
the District to recover damages for the injury. On the trial it was not
alleged nor proved that the supervisor was -incompetent. The court, after
instructing the jury that the negligence of the supervisor was one of the
risks which the laborer took upon himself, and that the District was not
liable unless he was incompetent, and such incompetency was known or
ought to have been known to it, added further, that if the jury found that
the laborer notified the supervisor of the dangerous condition of the bank,
he would be relieved from the imputation of negligence during the time
necessary to provide a man to watch it. Held -

