FULKERSON v. HOLMES.
Statement of Facts.

tract of one hundred and eleven acres, which, of course, is inconsistent with the decree now complained of. That decree is
accordingly
Reversed, and the cause ts remanded forfurther proceedings
sn conformity with equity and justice and not 2nconststent
with this opZA?.on.

FULKERSON & Others v. HOLMES & Others.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR TiE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.

Argued March 11, 1886.-Decided March 22, I8S6.
In ejectment, after proving a patent of the premises from the State of Virginia
to S. Y. in 1787, the plaintiff offered in evidence a duly recorded deed from
S. C. Y., his son and sole heir, to J. H., dated in 1819, proved the handwriting of the magistrate who took the acknowledgment of it and the signature of a witness who had been dead over fifty years, and showed that
the patent and deed were found among the papers of . H. after his death
in 1834. Held, That the deed was admissible in evidence as an ancient
document without further proof.
An ancient deed reciting the death, intestate, of a former owner of lands
conveyed by it, and that the grantor in the deed was his only son and heir
in whom title to the lands vested on his death, and conveying the lands to
a person under whom the plaintiff in an action of ejectment claimed, is admissible in evidence at the trial of that action, after the lapse of over sixty
years, in order to prove the pedigree of the son.
The proof in this case fails to show that the lands in controversy bad become
forfeited to the State of Virginia for non-listing for taxation or for nonpayment of taxes, at the time when the patents were issued under wich the
defendants claim title.

This was an action of ejectment. The defendants in error
were the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court,,and were the heirs at
law of John Holmes, deceased. They brought the action in
August, 1871, to recover a tract of three thousand acres of land
in Lee County, in the State of Virginia. The defendants
pleaded the general issue. The case was tried by a jury, and
there was a verdict for the plaintiffs, on which the court

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

rendered judgment, and the defendants sued out this writ of
error.
It appeared from the bill of exceptions that the plaintiffs, to
sustain the issue on their part, offered in evidence a patent
from the Commonwealth of Virginia to Samuel Young, dated
May '(, 1787, for the premises in controversy, which was admitted without objection.
They next offered a deed for the same premises from Samuel
C. Young to John Holmes, dated July 12, 1819. This deed
recited the grant by the Commonwealth of Virginia to Samuel
Young of the premises in controversy, that Samuel Young, the
patentee, had died intestate, that Samuel C. Young, the grantor,
was his only child and heir, and that the title to said lands had
vested in him. Appended to the deed was a certificate of acknowledgment, dated July 15, 1819, at the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, purporting to have been taken by IRichard
Peters, United States judge for the district of Pennsylvania,
and signed by him. The deed appeared also to have been witnessed by John Shaw and John Craige. Immediately after
the certificate of acknowledgment appeared what purported
to be the receipt of Samuel C. Young for the consideration
money mentioned in the deed, which was $10,400, signed by
him and witnessed by John Craige. The plaintiffs proved the
handwriting of Judge Peters to the certificate, and the death of
John Shaw, one of the witnesses, which took place more than
fifty years before the trial. Appended to the deed was the following certificate of registration
"Virginia At a court begun and held for Lee County, at
the court-house thereof, on the 15th day of January, 1838, this
indenture of bargain and sale for land between Samuel 0.
Young, of the one part, and John Holmes of the other part,
was admitted to record upon the certificate of Richard Peters,
judge of the Pennsylvania district of the United States.
"J. W S. Moiinsow, D. 0."
The deed bore the following endorsement

FULKERSON v. HOLMES.
Statement of Facts.

"Recorded in the clerk's office of the County Court of Lee,
in book No. 7,, page 401.
"Teste

J. W S. Momsox, D. C."

The plaintiffs also introduced evidence tending to show that
the patent to Samuel Young, and the deed from Samuel C.
Young to John Holmes, were found among the papers of the
latter after his death in 1834.
They also offered the testimony of John Holmes, a son-in-law
of John Holmes, the grantee of the land, who testified that he
knew that said grantee owned a tract of 3000 acres of land
in Lee County, Virginia, and that the deed for the land was
in the possession of John Holmes. the elder, at the time of his
death, that at the request of one of the executors of John
Holmes, the elder, and of the family, the witness, in the year
1836, went to Virginia to examine the lands, that he took with
hinm a map and plan and two deeds, one being the patent above
mentioned for the lands in controversy, the other the deed from
Samuel C. Young to John Holmes for the same lands, and that
these papers had been in his possession or under his control for
a period of thirty-seven or thirty-eight years. On his said visit
the witness went upon the lands with Peter Fulkerson, who
lived in sight of them, and who, as well as Frederick D. Fulkerson and Mr. Ewing, brother-in-law of the latter, recognized
him as representing the owners of the land. It was at that
time called the "Holmes plantation." There were no intruders upon the land and no one in actual possession. In 1840
Frederick D. Fulkerson treated by letter with the witness for
the purchase of the land, and in 1846 James Fulkerson wrote
the witness to learn the least he would take for the land, and
repeated his inquiry in the year 1847. It may be here stated,
that the defendants claimed possession under patents issued, one
to the Peter Fulkerson above mentioned, dated October 30,1838,
and another to said Frederick D. Fulkerson and James Fulkerson and Elizabeth Fulkerson, dated October 31, 1846, and by
subsequent conveyances from said patentees.
Having introduced this evidence the plaintiffs rested.
One of the defences set up to the action by the defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

was, that under the laws of Virginia the lands in controversy
had been forfeited to the State, and the title by reason thereof
had, ipso facto, reverted to the State, and was, therefore, out of
the plaintiffs.
The acts of the State of Virginia applicable to the present
case, providing for the forfeiture of lands delinquent for the
non-payment of taxes, were as follows
The second section of the act of February 27, 1835, after
reciting, by way of preamble, that whereas it was "known to
the general assembly, that many large tracts of land lying
west of the Alleghany Mountains which were granted by the
Commonwealth before the first day of April, eighteen hundred and thirty-one, never were, or have not been for many
years last past, entered on the books of the commissioner of
the revenue where they respectively lie," declared that every
owner of any such tract of land should, on or before the
first day of July, 1836, enter, or cause to be entered on the
books of the commissioner of revenue for the county in which
the lands lay, any land owned by him the title of which came
through grants by the Commonwealth, and have the same
charged with all taxes and damages in arrears properly chargeable thereon, and pay all such taxes and damages which had
not been relinquished and exonerated by the second section
of the act concerning delinquent and forfeited lands, passed
March 10, 1832, and upon failure to do so, such lands, not
in the actual possession of said owner, should become forfeited
to the Commonwealth after the first of July, 1836. Laws
of Virginia, 1834, 1835, ch. 13, pages 11, 12.
The second section of the act of March 10, 1832, referred to
in the statute just recited, provided that all taxes and damages
due and chargeable on lands lying west of the Alleghany
Mountains, returned delinquent for the year 1831 or any
previous year, and which had not been redeemed, or exonerated by former laws, should be discharged, and the lien of the
Commonwealth therefor relinquished, provided said taxes and
damages did not exceed $10. See Laws of Virginia, 1832, ch.
73, pages 66, 67.
By successive acts of the Legislature of Virginia (act of

FULKERSON v. HOLMES.
Statement of Facts.

March 23, 1836, oh. 3, page 7, acts of 1835-36, act of I farch 30,
1837, ch. 8, page 9, acts of 1836-7, act of T1arch 15, 1838, ch.
8, pages 16, 17, acts of 1838) the time for entering lands upon
the books of the commissioners of revenue, and paying the
taxes and damages charged thereon, and thereby saving them
from forfeiture, was extended to the first day of July, 1838.
In order to prove the forfeiture of the land in controversy
to the State of Virginia the defendants introduced "a table of
tracts of land in Lee County assessed with taxes," certified on
September 5, 1876, by the Auditor of Public Accounts of the
State of Virginia. This table showed that three tracts of
land, containing in the aggregate 6300 acres, had been listed
for taxation, against Samuel Young, of Philadelphia, for the
years from 1827 to 1832 inclusive. The taxes on the three
tracts for the five years from 1827 to 1831 inclusive were, according to the table, unpaid, and amounted in all to 38 cents.
The taxes for 1832 were marked paid.
The Auditor of Public Accounts certified that the books of
Lee County prior to 1827 were missing, that the records
showed that the taxes on said three tracts of Samuel Young
had been paid up to and including the year 1822, that the
taxes were released to 1831,inclusive, and that said lands were
returned among the unascertainable lands in 1832, and subsequently dropped from the commissioners' books of Lee County
To rebut this testimony introduced by the defendants, the
plaintiffs put in evidence'the certificate of the deputy sheriff of
Lee County, dated December 14, 1837, to the effect that he
had placed a tract of land in the name of Samuel Young, for
3000 acres, which was returned in the year 1834 not ascertainable, on the commissioners' books of said county of Lee, and
taxed the damages thereon. They also introduced "an extract," certified September 5, 1875, by the Auditor of Public
Accounts, "from the land books of the commissioners of the
revenue for the county for Lee, for the years 1838 to 1875, both
inclusive," of lands assessed successively to John Holmes,
John Holmes, Jr., and John Holmes's estate, for each of said
years. The extract showed that a tract of 3000 acres of land,
conveyed by Samuel 0. Young, was listed for taxation to John

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

Holmes and John Holmes, Jr., of Philadelphia, and to the estate of John Holmes, for the years above mentioned, the taxes
down to 1874, excepting one year, appeared to have been paid
or released by law
The evidence having been closed, the court, at the request of
plaintiffs, charged the jury as follows: "That if they believed
from the evidence in the cause that the Commonwealth, by letters-patent, on the 7th day of May, 1787, granted to Samuel
Young the parcel of 3000 acres of land in the declaration mentioned, that Samuel C. Young was the only child and heir of
Samuel Young, that Samuel C. Young conveyed the said 3000
acres, by deed of the 12th day of July, 1819, to John Holmes,
of the city of Philadelphia, Penn., that said John Holmes was
dead, and that the plaintiffs were his heirs, then the title to
this land was satisfactorily traced to the plaintiffs, and that,
in consequence of the antiquity of the deed of Samuel C. Young
to John Holmes of 12th July, 1819, and its custody by said
Holmes, the jury might be justified by the testimony tending
to prove an acknowledgment of this title by those under whom
defendants claim, to accept the recitals of said deed as to the
heirship of Samuel 0. Young."
At the request of the defendants the court charged the jury"That the plaintiffs have attempted to show a right under
Samuel Young's patent, and that they cannot derive title from
Samuel C. Young, unless they prove to the satisfaction of the
jury that Samuel Young's rights passed by deed, devise, or descent to Samuel C. Young, under whom the plaintiffs claim."
Having given these charges, the court refused the defendant's request to charge the jury as follows "That the recital
in the deed of Samuel C. Young, that he is the only heir of
Samuel Young, has been permitted to be read to the jury as
evidence, yet it is left to the jury to decide, from all the facts
and circumstances in evidence before them, whether Samuel
Young is dead or not, and whether Samuel C. Young is his
only son and heir or not, and unless they should be clearly satisfied from the evidence that Samuel C. Young is the son and
heir of Samuel Young, then they should find for the defendants."

FULKERSON v. HOLMES.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The defendants also asked the court to instruct the jury upon
the question of the forfeiture of the lands in controversy under
the laws of the State of Virginia, above recited, but the court
refused to instruct the jury on this point.
A& John A. Buchanan for plaintiffs in error.
I. It was error in the court to allow said deed to be read in
evidence without instructing the jury that the recitals therein
as to the death of Samuel Young and the heurship of Samuel 0.
Young were not evidence against the plaintiffs in error, even if
it were admissible at all, without proof of its execution, or of
possession, accompanying and held under it.
The said recitals in the deed were clearly inadmissible
1. Because such recitals are not evidence of the facts recited
as to third persons, who do not claim under, but adversely to
the title which the deed purports to convey Wiley v. Givens,
6 Gratt. 277, 286.
2. Such recitals could not be received as evidence of pedigree,
because the relationship of Samuel C. Young, the declarant, to
Samuel Young was not established, and it was not shown that
the declarant was dead. These two facts must be shown by
evidece independent of the recitals. Blackburn v. Crawford,
3 Wall. 175, 187, 1 Wharton's Evidence, ยง 218, and cases cited,
2 Starkie, 205, and note, Gregoryv Baugh, 4 Rand. (Va:), 611,
Chapman v Ciapran,2 Conn. 34-7, Fort v. Clarke, 1 Russell,
601, 604, Speed v Brooks, 7 J. J. Marsh. 119.
These recitals were made by Samuel C. Young in ls own
interest, and upon no principle of law can such acts be evidence
in favor of those who clasm under him, to establish the facts
stated in the recitals as against these persons. Edwards v. Ballard,14 B. Mon. 289, 290.
II. The court erred in refusing to instruct the jury upon the
question of forfeiture. The forfeiture was clearly shown, but
if it were not, there was evidence tending to show it, and it
was the plain duty of the court, in such a case, to instruct the
jury upon that question. Farshv ]?ezgle, 11 Gratt. 697, Early
v. Garland, 13 Gratt. 1-14, H~opkns v Rwhardon, 9 Gratt.
485-496.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

7.r Patrwk Hagar and r William Pznkney Wtyte for
defendants in error. XIr John A. Campbell also filed a brief
for same.
MR. JUsTIcE WooDs, delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the case as above reported and continued
It is first assigned for error that the Circuit Court "allowed
the deed from Samuel C. Young to John Holmes to be read in
evidence without instructing the jury that the recitals therein
in respect to the death of Samuel Young and the heirship of
Samuel C. Young were not evidence against the defendants,
even if it were admissible at all, without proof of its execution
or possession accompanying and held under it."
The deed of Samuel C. Young to John Holmes was rightfully admitted in evidence, as an ancient deed, without proof
by the subscribing witnesses, or of possession by the plaintiffs
or those under whom they claimed. When offered it was more
than sixty years old, it was produced from the custody of the
heirs of John Holmes, the grantee, who claimed the lands described therein. It, as well as the patent for the same land
from the Commonwealth of Virginia to Samuel Young, was
shown to have been found among the papers of John Holmes.
The lands described therein were shown to have been listed for
taxation to John Holmes, or to his heirs, for a period beginning with the year 1838 down to and including the year 1875,
which was after the bringing of this suit, and it appeared that
during that time they had paid the taxes assessed on said lands,
or the same had been released to them by law It was further
shown, that the judge before whom the acknowledgment of
the deed had been made was dead, that his signature to the
certificate of acknowledgment was genuine, that the deed had
been recorded in the county where the lands lay for more than
forty-two years before it was offered in evidence, and that
before and after the deed was put upon record the lands described therein were reported to be the lands of John Holmes,
the grantee, and his heirs, and were known and designated in
the neighborhood where they lay as the "1Holmesplantation."
This state of facts amply justified the admission of the deed

FULKERSON v. HOLMES.
Opinion of the Court.

in evidence, as an ancient document, without other proof.
Caruthers v Eldridge, 12 Gratt. 670, Aplegate v. lexington
& Carter County .Iinzng Co., decided at the present term,
ante, 255, and cases there cited.
The question is, therefore, fairly presented, whether the recitals made in the deed of Samuel C. Young to John Holmes,
to the effect that Samuel Young, the patentee, had died intestate, leaving one child only, namely, the said Samuel C. Young,
the grantor, were admissible in evidence against the defendants, who did not claim title under the deed.
The fact to be established is one of pedigree. The proof to
show pedigree forms a well settled exception to the rule which
excludes hearsay evidence. This exception has been recognized
on the ground of necessity, for, as in inquiriesrespecting relationship or descent, facts must often be proved which occurred
many years before the trial, and were known to but few persons, it is obvious that the strict enforcement in such cases of
the rules against hearsay evidence would frequently occasion a
failure of justice. Taylor on Evidence, ed. 1872, ยง 571. Traditional evidence is, therefore, admissible. Jackson v Cooley,
8 Johns. 127, Jackson v. Browner, 18 Johns. 37, Jackson v.
Zing, 5 Cowen, 237, Davis v. TFood, 1 Wheat. 6. The rule
is that declarations of deceased persons who were dejure related by blood or marriage to the family in question may be
given in evidence in matters of pedigree. Jewell v Jewell,
1 How 219, Blackburn v Orawfords, 3 Wall. 175, Johnson
v. Lawson, 2 Bing. 86, Towles v. Young, 13 Ves. 140, 147,
.Monkton v. Attorney-General,2 Russ. & Myln. 147, 159, Vhite
v Strother, 11 Ala. 720. A qualification of the rule is, that,
before a declaration can be admitted in evidence, the relationship of the declarant with the family must be established by
some proof independent of the declaration itself. Monkton v.
Attorney- General,2 Russ. & Myln. 147,156, Attorney-General
v. K0oiler, 9 H. L. Cas. 653, 660, Rex v All-Saznts, 7 3. & 0.
785, 789. But it is evident that but slight proof of the relationship will be required, since the relationship of the declarant with the family might be as difficult to prove as the very
fact in ,ontroversy

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

Applying these rules, we are of opinion that the recital in
the deed of Samuel C. Young to John Holmes, supported as it
was by the circumstances of the case shown by the evidence,
was admissible, as tending to prove the facts recited, namely,

that Samuel Young, the patentee, was dead, and Samuel C.
Young, the grantor, was his only child and heir.
As the deed in which the recital was made was entitled to
be admitted in evidence, it stands upon the same footing as if

its execution had been proved in the ordinary way The fact,
therefore, that, on the twelfth day of July, 1819, the date of the
deed, in the city of Philadelphia, before Richard Peters, United
States Judge, and two other persons as witnesses, Samuel C.
Young, the grantor m the deed mentioned, made the declarations in question, may be taken as established.
It is not disputed that when, upon the trial of the case in the
Circuit Court in October, 1880, the deed containing the recitals
was offered in evidence, the declarant, Samuel C. Young, was
dead. It only remained, therefore, to offer some evidence that
the declarant, Samuel C. Young, was related to the family of
Samuel Youiig. One circumstance relied on to show his relationship was the similarity of names. This, after the lapse of
so great a time, was entitled to weight. Another fact was that
the patent to Samuel Young for the land in controversy was
found with the deed of Samuel C. Young to John Holmes
among the papers of the latter after his death. The wellknown practices and habits of men in the transfer of title
make it clear that the patent was delivered to Holmes by
Samuel C. Young, when the latter delivered his own deed to
Holmes for the premises conveyed by the patent. There was,
therefore, persuasive proof that on January 12, 1819, Samuel
C. Young had in his possession, claiming it as a mnunment of
his title, the patent issued by the Commonwealth of Virginia
to Samuel Young, and the presumption is that his possession
of the patent was rightful. The fact that Samuel C. Young,
representing himself to be the son and heir of Samuel Young,
had in his rightful possession the title papers of the latter to a
valuable estate, is a fact tending to prove the truth of his
asserted relationship.

FULKERSON v. HOLMES.
Opinion of the Court.

Another circumstance of weight is that Samuel 0. Young,
having assumed, as the son and sole heir of Samuel Young, to
convey the landed estate of the latter, and his grantees having
for more than sixty years claimed title under his conveyance,
the right of Samuel 0.Young to make the conveyance has
never, so far as appears, been questioned or challenged by any
other person claiming under Samuel Young.
After a lapse of sixty-one years we think these circumstances were sufficient to prove that Samuel 0. Young was of
the family of Samuel Young, and that the declaration of the
former, deliberately made in an ancient writing, signed, sealed,
witnessed, acknowledged, and recorded, to the effect that the
declarant was the only child and heir of Samuel Young, and
that the latter was dead, was of right admitted in evidence, as
tending to prove the facts so recited. This conclusion is sustained by the case of .Deevy v Cray, 5 Wall. 795, which is
directly in point. See also Carver v Astor, 4 Pet. 1, Crane
v Astor &Q-3[orrms, 6 Pet. 598, Garwood v Dennws, 4 Binn.
314, Stokes v -Daws,4 Mason, 268, Jackson v Cooley, 8 Johns.
12T. In view, therefore, of the circumstances of the case, there
was no error in the refusal of the court to instruct the jury
that said recital was not evidence against the defendants.
The next and only other ground of error alleged by the defendants is, that the court refused to charge the jury on the
question of forfeiture. We think there was no error here.
The forfeiture of the lands in controversy is alleged to have
occurred by virtue of the provisions of the second section of
the act of February 27, 1835. Two classes of lands were declared subject to forfeiture by this act. The first was lands
which had never been entered upon the books of the commissioners of revenue for the county in which the lands lay
There is a failure to show that the lands in question had
never been listed for.taxation upon the books of the commissioners of Lee County, within whose limits they were included.
It is true the certificate of the Auditor of Public Accounts,
introduced by the defendants, states that the records of Lee
County prior to 1827 are missing. But it can hardly be
maintained that when a party shows his inability to prove

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

an essential fact, the fact may be inferred from his inability to
prove it.
But the same certificate shows that the lands of Samuel
Young were placed on the books of the commissioners of Lee
County for six years, namely, from 1827 to 1832 inclusive, and
that the taxes on the same lands had been paid up to and including the year 1832. Upon the showing of the defendants
themselves, it appears that the lands in question do not belong
to the class which had never been entered upon the books of
the commissioners of revenue.
iNor are the defendants any more successful in showing that
the lands in controversy fell within the second class liable to
forfeiture, namely, those which for many years previous toFebruary 27, 1835, the date of the act declaring the forfeiture,
had not been entered upon the books of the commissioners of
revenue. For, referring to the second section of the act of
March 10, 1832 (Laws of Virginia, 1832, ch. 73, p. 67), it appears that only those tracts of land on which the unpaid taxes
exceeded $10 were liable to forfeiture under the act of February 27, 1835. There is no proof that the taxes and damages on the lands in question exceeded that amount. On the
contrary, if the table of lands showing the taxes thereon for
the years 1827 to 1832 inclusive, certified by the Auditor of
Public Accounts, includes the lands in controversy, as the defendants contend, the taxes thereon for all the years stated
amounted to only 38 cents, and the taxes were, therefore,
released and relinquished by the second section of the act
of March 10, 1832. And if this table did not include the lands
in controversy, then there is an entire failure to show what
the taxes were. The defendants, therefore, have failed to
prove that the lands in controversy were liable to forfeiture
under the act of February 27, 1835.
But there is affirmative proof that no forfeiture could have
occurred, for the time for entering the lands on the commissioners' books for taxation and for paying the taxes, and thereby
preventing forfeiture, was extended, as has been stated, to the
first day of July 1838, and it was shown by the certificate of
Crabtree, the deputy sheriff, that as early as December 14,

HOYT v. RUSSELL.
Syllabus.

1837, the lands in controversy were placed upon the tax-books
and the damages thereon taxed, and it was further shown
that the State of Virginia never claimed the lands as forfeited,
but from the year 1838 down to the beginning of this suit, a

period of more than thirty-three years, had assessed and collected taxes therefor from the plaintiffs and those under whom
they claim. It follows that the failure to show a forfeiture of
the lands under the act of February 27, 1835, was complete.
It would, therefore, have been the duty of the court, if it gave
any instruction upon this branch of the defence, to, say to the
jury that the defendants had failed to maintain it. It can
hardly be urged by them, as a ground for the reversal of the
judgment, that the court did not so charge. Brobst v Brocek,
10 Wall. 519, P&illips Conmtruction Co. v Seymour, 91 U. S.
646.

Judgment affirmed.

HOYT & Another v. RUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITOR-Y OF MONTANIA.
Submitted March 11, 1886.-Decided March 22, 1886.
A Territorial Court is bound to take judicial notice of the statutes of the Terntory m operation affecting a subject brought before it in the regular course
of procedure.
On May 8, 1873, the Legislature of Montana enacted that any person who
should thereafter discover a mining claim should file in the office of the
recorder of the county a statement in some material respects different from
the statement previously required by law to be filed in such case, and that
the act should take effect on and after its passage. On that date a statute
was in force there which provided that "all acts of the Legislature declaring that they should take effect from and after their passage shall so take
effect only at the seat of government, and in other portions of the Territory,
allowing fifteen miles from the seat of government for each day." On the
13th of May, 1873. at a place in the Territory in which the act of May 8,
1873, had not come into force, H & G discovered a lode, and, located it,
and subsequently filed a notice of location complying in all respects with
the law as it was before the passage of the act of May 8, 1873, but not complying with the requirements of that act. R, who had made a conflicting
-location, fied an adverse claim under Rev. Stat. ยง 2326. On the trial, the
VOL. CXVIi- 26

