OCTOBER TERM, ]885.
Statement of Facts.

As it does not appear that the Circuit Court might not, in
its discretion and consistently with law and justice, have denied
the applications for the writ at-the time they were made, we
are of opinion that the judgment in each case must be affirmed,
but without prejudice to the right of the petitioner to renew
his applications to that court at some future time should the
circumstances render it proper to do so.
Affirmed.

EX PARTE ROYALL.
OI IGMA!L.

Argued December 1, 1884.-Decided March 1, 1886.

The petitioner prayed for a writ of habeas corpus on the ground that the State
statute under which he was arrested and held in custody was repugnant
to the Constitution of the United States Held, That, without deciding
whether the court has power under existing legislation, and on habeas
corpus, to discharge a prisoner held in custody under process of a State
court of onginal jurisdiction for trial on an indictment charging him with
an offence against the laws of that State, such power ought not, for reasons
given in Ex arte Royal, ante 241, to be exercised in advance of his trial.

This was an original petition for a writ of habeas corpus.
The proceedings were founded upon some of the legislation of
the State of Virginia respecting the receipt of coupons by the
State in payment of taxes which is considered in Antont, v
Greenrww, 107 IT. S. 769, the Virgnta Coupon Cases, 114
U S. 269, Barry v. Ednunds, 116 U. S. 550, Royall v. Vlirgznza, 116 I. S. 572, Sands v Edmunds, 116 _U S. 585, and
Ex.parte Royall, ante, 24,1. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
Xr Wiliam 1. 1Royall in person and _Vr Danel . Chamberla-n for the petitioner. Hr William B. IHornblower was
with them on the brief.

APPLEGATE v. LEXINGTON, &c., MINING CO.

255

Syllabus.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAr delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an original application by W L. Royall, to this court.
for a writ of habeas corpus, directed to N. M. Lee, sergeant of
the city of Richmond, Virginia, commanding him to produce
the body of the petitioner before this court, together with the
cause of his detention, that he may be discharged from the
custody of said officer. The writ is asked upon the ground
that the statute under which he was arrested and is held in
custody is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States,
and, consequently, that he is restrained of his liberty in violation of that instrument. The petition was filed here on the
1st day of December, 1884. It states the same facts as are set
out in the petition in -x parte 1oyall Hfo. 1, and Ex _parte
]?oyall -Mo. 2, ante, 241, just determined.
The application for the writ must be denied. It is sufficient
to say that if this court has power, under existing legislation,
and upon habeas corpus, to discharge the petitioner, who is in
custody, under the process of a State court of original jurisdiction, for trial on an indictment charging him with an offence
against the laws of that State-upon which it is not necessary
to express an opinion-such power ought not, for the reasons
given in the other cases just decided, to be exercised in advance
of his trial.
.Dewted.

APPLEGATE & Others v. LEXINGTON & CARTER
COUNTY MINING COMPANY & Others.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued March 4, 1886.-Decided March 15, I86.
When an ancient deed forms part of the original papers in a suit in a court of
record to determine the title to land to which the deed relates, the record of
the case is admissible against persons who are not parties or privies to the
suit in order to prove the antiquity of the deed and to account for its custody.

