OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

:March 29, 1S79, at nine o'clock, that the stock of goods was
at Vestel, twenty-three miles distant, that the plaintiffs took
possession of them the next morning, Sunday, at four o'clock,
and remained in possession until the goods were seized under
the levy of the attachment made by the defendants the next
morning, it appears that there was not a single hour in which
business could be, or was usually, transacted that intervened between the execution and delivery of the bill of sale and the transfer of the possession of the property This was certainly an immediate delivery of possession under the statute, and that possession continued until interrupted by the seizure by the defendants. Upon the facts in evidence, the title of the plaintiffs to
the goods in controversy was sufficiently established in law,
and if nothing else appeared it would have been the duty of
the court so to have instructed the jury
The judgment of the Supreme Co iurt of _Aontana Territory w
reversed, and the cause ?s remanded, with instructions to
take furtherproceedings theremn conformity with law.

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
EASTERN BAiND OF CHEROKEE INDIANS v.
UNITED STATES AND CHEROKEE NATION,
COMMONLY CALLED CHEROKEE NATION WEST.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 4, 5, 6, 1886.-Decided March 1, 18q6.

By treaties with the Cherokees the United States have recognized them as a
distinct political community, so far independent as to justify and require
negotiations with them in that character.
The Cherokees in North Carolina dissolved their connection with the Cherokee
Nation when they refused to accompany the body of it on its removal, and
have had no separate political organization since, though fostered and
encouraged, they have not been recognized by the United States as a nation,

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUND.
Statement of Facts.
in whole or in part, and, as now organized, are not the successor of any
organization recognized by any treaty or law of the United States.
The claim of the Cherokees of North Carolina to a share of the commuted
annuity fund'of $214,000, and of the fund created by sales of lands west
of the Mississippi ceded to the Cherokee Nation, has no substantial foundation, those funds and that property being dedicated by the Constitution
of the Cherokees, and intended by their treaties with the United States for
the benefit of the nited nation, and not in any respect for those who bad
separated from it and become aliens to their nation.

This action was commenced by appellants in the Court of
Claims under the jurisdiction conferred upon that court by the
following provision in the act of March 3, 1883, ch. 141, 22
Stat. 582, 585 "That the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians
is hereby authorized to institute a suit in the Court of Claims
against the United States to determine the rights of the said
band in and to the moneys, stock, and bonds held -by the
United States in trust for the Cherokee Indians, arismg out of
the sales of lands lying west of the Mississippi River, and also
in a certain other fund, commonly called the permanent annuity fund, to which suit the Cherokee Nation, commonly
called the Cherokee Nation West, shall be made a party defendant. The said Eastern Band shall within three months
after the passage of this act file a petition in said court, verified by the principal chief of said band, setting forth the facts
upon which said claim is based. The said Cherokee Nation
West shall within six months after the passage of this act file
its answer to siid petition, and said cause shall proceed to final
determination pursuant to the practice in said court, and such
rules or orders as the said court may make in that behalf.
"The Secretary of the Interior shall transmit to said court
for the consideration of said court copies duly certified of all
records, reports, papers, and other documents on file in the
Department of the Interior which he may deem necessary to
said cause, or which may be requested by either of the parties
hereibefore referred to, and the said parties, respectively, may
take and submit to said court such additional competent testimony as they may desire. And jurisdiction is hereby conferred upon said court to hear and determine what, if any
interest, legal or equitable, the said Eastern Band has in said
VOL. cxvr-19

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Argument for Appellants.

moneys, stocks, bonds, so held in trust as aforesaid by the
United States, and shall enter a decree specifically defining
the rights and interests of the said Eastern Band therein, and
in any moneys hereafter to be derived- from sources similar
to those out of which the existing fund arose.
"When the interest, if any, of the said Eastern Band has
been ascertained as aforesaid, the Secretary of the Treasury
shall, out of the portion of said fund adjudged to said parties,
respectively, pay all the proper costs and expenses of said
respective parties of the proceedings herein provided for, each
party, except the United States, to be liable for its own costs
and expenses, and the remainder shall be placed to credit of
the said Eastern Band and of the Cherokee Nation, in accordance with their respective rights as ascertained by the said
judgment and decree of said court.
"In the said proceeding the Attorney General, or such of
his assistants as he may designate, shall appear on behalf of
the United States. Either of the parties to said cause may
-appeal from any judgment rendered by said Court of Claims
to the Supreme Court of the United States, and the said courts
shall give such cause precedence."
The facts which make the case are stated in the opimon of
the court.
,udgment was rendered against the claim of the Eastern
Band to share in the funds named in the act, 20 C. C1. 449,
and this appeal was taken.
Mrb Asswsiant Attorney-General .faur y on behalf of the
United States stated to the court that they were merely
trustee, with no interest in the result of the controversy
.Ar Samuel Shellabarger and .Abr Jerernah X Wilson for
appellants (2fr Samuel J Crawfordand -2Mr T. Gillatrwk
were also on the brief, and _r WF T Curti9 was with them),
contended as follows
1. The claimants are a civil person and a legal entity recognized and known to and organized under the laws of the United
States.

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
Argument for Appellants.

2. By the 10th and other articles of the treaty of 1846 they
are treated and made to be, although residing east, a part of
the Cherokee Nation of Indians.
3. By this.same treaty of 1846, the treaty of 1835 has fixed
upon it the binding and treaty signification that it secured to
the claimant Indians, along with the rest of the Oherokee
Nation, a common interest in all the property of the Cherokee
Nation, wherever situate and whatever its character.
4. The 10th Article of the treaty of 1846 expressly preserves
to the claimant Indians, in their residence at the east, this
common interest in all the common property of the Nation,
as defined by said treaty of 1835, although still residing east.
5. Articles 1 and 4 of the treaty of 1846, in securing to the
whole Cherokee people, including the claimant Indians, an
equal interest in the lands of the Nation, further establish the
equal interest of the claimant Indians in the common lands of
the Nation and the common funds of the Nation.
6. The act of Congress providing for the payment of the proceeds of the sales of the common lands east, made by the treaty
of 1835, upon the principles of the opinion of the Attorney
General, fixes upon the claimant Indians the character of being
a part of the Cherokee Nation, and entitled to their pro rala
share, under their present organization, of the proceeds of the
sale of the common lands.
'r. The executive branch of the government has also, under
the authority of these laws, recognized them as a part of the
Cherokee Nation, and entitled to their pro raa share of the
proceeds of the sales of the common lands sold under the treaty
of 1835.
8. There is no legal or equitable principle which distinguishes
between the right of the claimant Indians to receive what was
by them received under Article 9 of the treaty of 1846, and
their right to recover the moneys claimed in the present case.
9. This recognition by the political branch of the government of their rights as a part of the Cherokee Nation in the
common lands and money of the nation, is binding on the
courts.
10. Congress has plenary power to regulate the administra-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellants.

tion of these public trust funds of Indian tribes, and power to
recognize and legalize the division of the tribe in two parts,
that residing east and that residing west, and power to provide
for an equitable division of the national fund, whether lands,
or the'proceeds of the sale of lands, or annuities.
11. Congress has, since 1846, expressly provided for the distribution of the proceeds of the sale of part of this land, by
affirming the principles of the opinion of the Attorney-General,
and by other similar acts of Congress, and has thus bound the
judiciary to recognize the status of claimant Indians, and their
rights under that status to their proportionate share of the
other common lands of the nation and common funds of the
nation.
12. It being competent for Congress thus to provide for a
geographical separation of the tribe into two parts, and proportionate division of their property, and Congress having done
so, it cannot be said that the claimant Indians are in equity
not entitled to enjoy their proportion of the national property
in and under their separate organization, so legalized by the
political branch of the government, and in order to do so that
they must abandon the organization so legalized by Congress
and the Executive.
13. The treaty of 1866, in its 31st Article, in effect carefully
preserves these rights of the claimant Indians, because it preserves such rights unless expressly repealed by that treaty,
which rights are not so expressly repealed.
14. The act creating the present jurisdiction is mandatory
in requiring the court to render a decree in favor of the claimant Indians for whatever equitable as well as legal right they
may have in the proceeds of the sale of land or other trust
funds, and the equitable right of the claimant Indians to their
proportionate share of both classes of funds is establishedby
the above considerations.
15. The "neutral lands," 800,000 acres, were bought and
paid for out of the $5,000,000, in which confessedly the eastern Indians had a proportionate interest, and having been so
paid for, and having since been sold, the eastern Indians are in
equity entitled to their proportionate share of the purchase

THE" CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
Opinion of the Court.

money And the same principle applies to all other moneys
covered by the petition, because such moneys arose from the
sale of lands in which claimants had an equal interest proportioned to their numbers with the other Cherokees.
.Xl

S. S. Burdett and .26 Viliam A. Pdllipsfor appellees.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us on appeal from the Court of Claims.
It was brought to determine the right of the petitioners, called
the Eastern Band of the Cherokee Indians, to a proportionate
part of two funds held by the United States in trust for the
Cherokee Nation. One of the funds was created by the treaty
with the Nation made December 29, 1835, at New -Echota, in
Georgia, commuting certain annuities into the sum of $214,000.
The other arose from sales of certain lands of the Nation lying
west of the Mississippi River.
The suit by the petitioners was authorized by an act of Congress, and it is brought against the United States and the Cherokee Nation. 22 Stat. 582, ch. 141. The United States, however, have no interest in the controversy, as they hold thefunds merely as trustee. They stand neutral, therefore, in.the
litigation, although as a matter of form they have filed an
answer traversing the allegations of the petition.
The general ground upon which the petitioners.proceed and
seek a recovery is, that the Cherokee Indians, both those residing east and those residing west of the Mississippi, formerly
constituted one people and composed the Cherokee Nation, that
by various treaty stipulations with the- United States they became divided into two branches, known as the Eastern Cherokees and the Western Cherokees, and that the petitioners
constitute a portion of the former, and as such are entitled to
a proportionate share of the funds which the United States
hold in trust for the Nation.
This claim is resisted upon the ground that the two branches,
into which it is admitted the Nation was once divided, subsequently became reunited, and have ever since constituted one
nation, known as the Cherokee Nation, and that as such it pos.
Mm.

JUSTICE

FIENu

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

sesses all the rights and property previously claimed by both,
and that the petitioners have not, since the treaty of New
Echota, constituted any portion of the Nation.
To determine the merits of the respective claims and pretensions of the parties, it will be necessary to give some account
of the different treaties between the Cherokees and the United
States, and to refer to the several laws passed by Congress to
carry the treaties into effect, and accomplish the removal of
the Indians from their former home east of the Mississippi to
their present country west of that river.
When that portion of North America which ]s now embraced
within the limits of the United States east of the Mississippi
was discovered, it was occupied by different tribes or bands of
Indians. These people were destitute of the primary arts of
civilization, and with a few exceptions had no permanent buildings, occupying only huts and tents. Their lands were cultivated in small patches and generally by women. The men
were chiefly engaged in hunting and fishing. From the chase
came their principal food, and the skins of animals were their
principal clothing. The different tribes roamed over large
tracts and claimed a right to the country as their territory and
hunting grounds. Of these tribes, the Cherokee Indians constituted one of the largest and most powerful. They claimed
the principal part of the country now composing the States of
North and Sputh Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Tennessee.
Their title was treated by the governments established by
England, and the governments succeeding them, as merely
usufructuary, affording protection against individual encroachment, but always subject to the control and disposition of those
governments, at least so far as to prevent, without their consent, its acquisition by others. Such superior right rested upon
the claim asserted by England of prior discovery of the country,
and was respected by other European nations. There was no
nation, therefore, to oppose this assertion of superior right to
control the disposition of the lands, and to acquire the title of
the Indians, except the Indians themselves, and by treaties
with them from time to time their title and interest were
ceded to the United States.

THE CHEROKEE TRUST- FUNDS.
Opimon of the Court.

On the 28th of November, 1785, the United States madetheir first treaty with the Cherokees. 7 Stat. 18. It was concluded at Hopewell, on the Keowee, between commissioners
representing the United States on the one part and the "head
men and warriors of all the Cherokees on the other." By it
the Indians, for themselves and their respective tribes and
towns, acknowledged that all the Cherokees were under the
protection of the United States and of no other sovereign.
The treaty promised peace to them and the favor and protection of the United States, on condition of the restoration to
liberty of certain prisoners whom they had captured, and of
the return of certain property which they had seized. It also
prescribed the boundary between them and citizens of the
United States of lands allotted to them for their bunting
grounds. These lands embraced large tracts within the States
mentioned. The ninth article provided that, for the benefit
and comfort of the Indians, and for the prevention of injuries
or oppressions on the part of the citizens or Indians, the United
States should "have the sole and exclusive right of regulating
the trade with the Indians and managing all their affairs in such
manner as they think proper." By this treaty the Cherokees
were recognized as one people, composing one tribe or nation,
but subject, however, to the jurisdiction and authority of the
Government of the United States, which could regulate their
trade and iaanage all their affairs.
On the 2d of July, 1791, another treaty was made with the
Cherokees, in which they were described as the "Cherokee
Nation." '7Stat. 39. Its representatives were designated as
the "Chiefs and warriors of the Cherokee Nation of Indians,"
and the first article declared that "there shall be perpetual
peace and friendship between all the citizens of the United
States of America and all the individuals composing the whole
Cherokee Nation of Indians." And the chiefs and warriors,
"for themselves and all parts of the Cherokee Nation," acknowledged themselves and the Cherokee Nation to be under the
protection of the United States and of no other sovereign.
The treaty also renewed the agreement, on the part of the
Cherokees, that the United States should have the sole and ex-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

elusive right of regulating their trade, and readjusted the
boundary between citizens of the United States and the
"Cherokee Nation," by which the hunting grounds were reduced in quantity, and m consideration of this reduction the
United States agreed to deliver certain valuable goods to the
chiefs and warriors for the use of the Nation, and to pay to the
Nation annually the sum of $1000. A further article increased
the amount to $1500.
The boundary of the hunting grounds was from time to time
changed by subsequent treaties, and by each succeeding one
their extent was reduced, m consideration of which a larger
quantity of goods was promised to the Nation, and the
annuity was increased until, in -the year 1805, it amounted
to $10,000. 7 Stat. 43, 6.2, 93. This annuity was regularly
paid to the Cherokee Nation, as represented by the Indians
occupying territory east of the Mississippi River, until the
treaty of July 8, 1817. 7 Stat. 156. That treaty originated
from a division in opinion among the Cherokees as to their
mode of life, which existed when the first treaty with the
United States was made, in 1785, and which had from that
time increased. There were numerous settlements or towns
within the territory allotted to the Indians. Those who occupied the upper towns, which were mostly in the State of
North Carolina, desired to engage in the pursuits of agriculture
and civilized life, whilst those who occupied the lower towns,
m the valley of the Mississippi, desired to continue "the hunter
life," and, owing to the scarcity of game where they lived, to
remove across the Mississippi River to vacant lands of the
United States. As early as 1808 a deputation from the upper
and lower towns, authorized by the Cherokee Nation, came to
Washington to declare to the President their desires and inform him of the impracticability of uniting the whole Nation
m the pursuits of civilized life, and to request the establishment of a division line between the two classes of towns. The
treaty of 1817, which was made with "the chiefs, head men,
and warriors of the Cherokee Nation east of the Mississippi
River, and the chiefs, head men, and warriors of the Cherokees
on the Arkansas River," recites the action of this deputation

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
Opimon of the Court.

and the reply of the President to the parties, made on the 9th
of January, 1809, which was, in substance, that the United
States were the friends of both parties, and, as far.as could be
reasonably asked, were willing to satisfy the wishes of both,
that those who remained might be assured of their patronage,
aid, and good neighborhood, that those who wished to remove
would be permitted to send an exploring party to reconnoitre
the country on the west of the Arkansas and White Rivers
and higher up, that when this party should have found a
tract of country suiting the emigrants and not claimed by
other Indians, the United States would arrange with them to
exchange it for a just proportion of the country they should
leave, and to a part of which, according to their numbers, they
had a right, and that every aid towards their removal, and
what would be necessary for them there, would then be freely
extended to them.
The treaty recites that, relying upon these promises of the
President, the Cherokees explored the country on the west side
of the Mississippi, and made choice of the country on the
Arkansas and White Rivers, and settled upon lands of the
United States to which no other tribe of Indians had any just
claim, and that they had duly notified the President thereof,
and of their desire for a full and complete ratification of his
promise. To that end, as notified by him, they had sent their
agents with full powers to execute a treaty, relinquishing to
the United States their right, title and interest to all lands be.
longing to them as part of the Cherokee Nation, "which they
bad left and which they were about to leave, proportioned to
their numbers, including with those now on the Arkansas
those who were about to remove thither." The treaty then
proceeds to recite that, to carry into effect in good faith the
promises of the President, and to promote a continuation of
friendship with their brothers on the Arkansas River, and for
that purpose to make an eqpal distribution of the annuities
secured by the United States to the whole Cherokee Nation,
its articles were agreed upon. These were, in substance, that
the chiefs, head men, and warriors of the whole Cherokee
Nation ceded to the United States certain lands lying east of

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

the Mississippi, and the United States, in exchange for them,
bound themselves to give to that branch of the Cherokee
Nation -on the Arkansas as much land on that river and the
White River as they had received or might thereafter receive
from the Cherokee Nation east of the Mississippi, "acre for
acre, as the just proportion due that part of the Nation on the
Arkansas, agreeably to their numbers." The United States
also agreed to give to each poor warrior who might remove to
the western side of the Mississippi a rifle gun with ammunition
and other articles, to pay for all improvements of real value to
their lands, and to give of the lands surrendered to the United
States, to every head of an Indian family residing on the east
side of the Mississippi, who might wish to become a citizen of
the United States, 640 acres. It was also agreed that the
annuity due to the whole Nation for the year 1818 should be
divided between the two branches of the Nation, according to
their respective numbers, to be ascertained by a census to be
taken. Previous treaties between the United States and the
Cherokee Nation were to continue in force with both of its
branches, each to be entitled to all the immunities and privileges which the "old Nation" enjoyed under them.
On the 27th of February, 1819, another treaty was made
with the Cherokee Nation, 7 Stat. 195, represented by its
chiefs and head men. By it a further cession of lands was
made to the United States, and it was agreed that the annuity
to the Nation should be paid as follows two-thirds to the
Cherokees east of the Mississippi, and one-third to the Cherokees west of that river. This apportionment was based upon
an estimate, that those who had emigrated and those who were
enrolled for emigration constituted one-third of the Nation,
instead of upon a census to be taken as mentioned in the treaty
of 1817. The annuity thus divided was regularly paid as stipulated until commuted by the treaty of 'December, 1835, of
which we shall presently speak. ,
On the 6th of May, 1828, a treaty was made with the chiefs
and head men of the Cherokee Nation of Indians west of the
Mississippi. 7 Stat. 311. This was the first time the Cherokees
west of the river were recognized as so far a distinct and sepa-

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
Opinion of the Court.

rate political body from the Cherokees east of the river as to
call for separate treaty negotiations with them. The treaty
recited, as among the causes of its being made, that it was
the anxious desire of the government to secure to the Cherokee Nation of Indians, as well those then living within the
limits of Arkansas as those of their friends and brothers residing in States east of the Mississippi, who might wish to join
their brothers west, a permanent home which should, under the
guarantee of the United States, remain forever theirs, and that
the present location of the Cherokees in Arkansas was unfavorable to their repose, and tended to their degradation and misery
By it the United States agreed to put the Cherokees in possession of, and to guarantee to them for ever, seven millions of
acres of land which were specifically described, and which are
situated in what is now known as the Indian Territory, and
also to give and guarantee to the Cherokee Nation a perpetual
outlet west of these lands, and a free and unmolested use of the
country so far as their sovereignty and right of soil extended.
They also agreed to pay for all improvements on the land
abandoned, and, m order to encourage the emigration of their
brothers remaimng in the States, to give to each head of a
Cherokee family then residing within any of the States east of
the M ississippi, who might desire to remove west, on enrolling
himself for emigration, a good rifle and certain other articles, to
make just compensation for their property abandoned, to bear
the cost of their emigration, and to procure provisions for their
comfort, accommodation, and support by the way, and for
twelve months after their arrival at the agency On the other
hand, the chiefs and head men of the Cherokee Nation west
re-ceded to the United States the lands to which they were
entitled on the Arkansas under the treaties of July 8, 1817, and
of February 27, 1819, and agreed to rei~ove from the same
within fourteen months.
From this time until the treaty of New Echota, concluded
December 29, 1835, 7 Stat. 478, the Cherokees were divided
into -two branches, so far constituting distinct political bodies
that the United States had separate negotiations with each,
and on the 14th February, 1833, by a treaty with the chiefs

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmion of the Court.

and head men of the Cherokee Nation west of the M ississippi,
the United States renewed their guarantee of the seven millions of acres, and of the perpetual outlet to the nation west of
those lands, and of the free and unmolested use of the country
west. I Stat. 413.
In the meantime-from the treaty of 1828 until the treaty
of New Echota-the Cherokees remaining east of the M ississippi were subjected to harassing and vexatious legislation from
the States within which they resided. The United States had,
as early as 1802, agreed with Georgia, in consideration of her
cession of western lands, to extinguish the Indian title to lands
within the State. North Carolina claimed that the United
States were under a similar obligation to extinguish the Indian
title to lands within her limits, in consideration of a like cession
of western lands, although there was no positive agreement to,
that effect. And with the extinguishment of their title, it was
expected that the Indians themselves would be removed to territory beyond the bounds of those States. At the time the
treaty of 1828 was made, a great deal of impatience had been
exhibited by the people of those States at the little progress
made in the extinguishment of the Indian title, and at the continued presence of the Indians. Severe and oppressive laws
were passed by Georgia in order to compel them to leave, and,
though less severity was practised in North Carolina towards
the Indians in that State, an equally pronounced desire for
their departure was expressed. Angry and violent disputes
between them and the white people in both States, but more
particularly in Georgia, were of frequent occurrence. See case
of Cherokee _.Yation v State of Georgza, as reported in a separate

volume by Richard Peters in 1831, also a document called
"The Public Domain," prepared by the Public Land Commission, and published is Ex. Doe. 47 of I. of R., 46th Cong., 3d
Session, and Doe. No. 71 of H. of R.. 23d Cong., 1st Session.
The treaty of New Echota was made to put an end to those
troubles and to secure the reunion of the divided nation. It
recites as motives to its negotiation, among other thing, -that
the Cherokees were anxious to make some arrangement with
the Government of the United States, whereby the difficulties

TEE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
Opinon of the Court.

they had experienced from residence within the 'settled parts
of the country under the jurisdiction and laws of the State
governments, might be terminated and adjusted, and they be
'reunited into one body, and be secured a permanent home for
themselves and their posterity in the country selected by their
forefathers, without the territorial limits of the State sovereignties, and where they could establish and enjoy a government of their choice, and perpetuate such a state of society as
might be most consonant with their views, ,habits, and conditions, and as might tend to their individual comfort and their
own advancement in civilization. By its stipulations the Cher
okees ceded to the United States all the lands owned, claimed,
or possessed by them east of the Mississippi River, and all
claims for spoliations of every kind, for the sum of $5,000,000,
and agreed to remove to "their new home" west of the Mississippi within two years from its ratification.
The treaty aso recited the cession to the Cherokee Nation by
previous treaties of the 7,000,000 acres, and the guarantee
of a perpetual outlet west of these lands, and a free and unmolested use of all the country, so far as the sovereignty of the
United States and their right to the soil extended, and also
that it was apprehended by the Cherokees that in this cession
there was not a sufficient quantity of land for the accommodation of the whole nation, and, therefore, the United States
agreed, in consideration of $500,000, to convey by patent to
the Indians and their descendants an additional tract of 800,000
acres, and that the land previously ceded, including the outlet,
should be embraced in the same patent. (Art. 2.) They also
agreed to remove the Indians to their new home, and to subsist
them one year after their arrival there, except that such persons and families, as in the opinion of "the emigrating agent"
were capable of subsisting and removing themselves, should be
permitted to do so, and should be allowed for all claims for the
same $20 for each member of their families, and, in lieu oftheir one year's rations, should be paid the sum of $33.33, if they
preferred it. (Art. 8.)
It was also agreed that, after deducting the amount which
should be actually expended for the payment for improvements,

OCTOBER TERM, issm.
Opinon of the Court.

claims for spoliations, removal, subsistence, and debts and
claims upon the Cherokee Nation, and for the additional quantity of lands and goods for the poorer class of Cherokees, and
the several sums to be invested for the general national funds
provided for in the several articles of the treaty, the balance,
whatever the same might be, should be equally divided between
all the people belonging to the Cherokee Nation east according
to the census completed, and such Cherokees as had removed
west after June, 1833, and that those individuals and families
that were averse to removal and were desirous to become citizens of the State wherein they resided, and such as were qualified to take care of themselves and their property, should be
entitled to receive their due proportion of all the personal benefits arising under the treaty for their claims, improvements, and
their per capita, as soon as an appropriation was made to carry
out the treaty (Arts. 12 and 15.)
By the eleventh article, "the Cherokees, bef'evmg it will be
for the interest of their people to have all their funds and annuities under their own direction and future disposition," agreed
to commute their permanent annuity of $10,000 for the sum
of $214,000, the same to be invested by the President of the
United States as part of the general fund of the nation.
In the following year Congress made the requisite appropriation for the commutation, and, according to the tenth article
of the treaty, the money was invested "for the benefit of the
whole Cherokee Nation," which had removed, or should subsequently remove, to the lands assigned to it west of the Mississippi. This is one of the funds of which the petitioners claim
a part, in proportion to their numbers as compared with the
citizens of the Cherokee Nation living west of the Mississippi
on the territory ceded. The provisions of the treaty as to the
investment, custody and distribution of the income of this fund,
and all other funds belonging to the nation, remained in force
-until the treaty of July 19, 1866. The interest was paid over
annually to the agents of the Cherokee Nation authorized to
receive the same, and was subject to application by its council
to such purposes as they deemed best for the general interests of
their people. The treaty of 1866, Article 23, 14 Stat. 799, 805,

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
Opinion of the Court.

,provided that all funds then due the nation, or that might thereafter accrue from the sale of its -lands by the United States, as
provided for, should be invested in United States registered
stocks at their current value, and the interest on all said funds
should be paid semi-annually on the order of the Cherokee Nation, and be applied to the following purposes, to wit- thirtyfive per cent. for the support of the common schools of the uation and educational purposes, fifteen per cent. for the orphan
fund, and fifty per cent. for general purposes, including reasonable salaries of district officers.
Immediately after the ratification of the treaty of 1835
measures were taken by the government to secure its execution, and commissioners were appointed to adjust claims for
improvements and to facilitate the emigration of the Indians.
But emigration proceeded slowly Great reluctance to go was
manifested by large numbers, and at last it became necessary
to make a display of force to compel their removal. MajorGeneral Scott was sent to the country with troops, and instructed to remove all the Indians except such as were entitled to remain and become citizens under the twelfth article of
the treaty The number that remained was between eleven
and twelve hundred. They were without organization or a
collective name. They ceased to be part of the Cherokee
Nation, and henceforth they became citizens of and were subject to the laws of the State in which they resided. The name
of the Eastern Cherokees accompanied those who emigrated,
to distingmsh them from those who had preceded them and
who were called old settlers.
After the reunion of the Cherokee people on their lands
west of the Mississippi' resulting from the execution of the
treaty, and on the 12th of July, 1839, the following act of
union between the Eastern and Western Cherokees was
adopted
"Act of ntown between the Eastern and Western Cherokees.
"Whereas our fathers have existed as a separate and distinct
nation, in the possession and exercise of the essential and appropriate attributes of sovereignty, from a period extending

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

into antiquity, beyond the records and memory of man, and
whereas, these attributes, with the rights and franchises which
they involve, remain still in full force and virtue, as do also
the national and social relation of tho Cherokee people to each
other and to the body politic, excepting in those particulars
which have grown out of the provisions of the treaties of 1817
and 1819 between the United States and the Cherokee Nation,
under which a portion of our people removed to this country
and became a separate community (but the force of circumstances have recently compelled the body of the Eastern Cherokees to remove to this country, thus bringing together again
the two branches of the ancient Cherokee family), it has become essential to the general welfare that a union should be
formed and a system of government matured adapted to their
present condition, and providing equally for the protection of
each individual in the enjoyment of all his rights
"Therefore we, the people composing the Eastern and Western Cherokee Nation, in national convention assembled, by
virtue of our original unalienable rights, do hereby solemnly
and mutually agree to form ourselves into one body politic,
under the style and title of the Cherokee Nation.
"In view of the union now formed, and for the purpose of
making satisfactory adjustment of all unsettled business which
may have arisen before the consummation of this union, we
agree that such business shall be settled according to the provisions of the respective laws under which it originated, and
the courts of the Cherokee Nation shall be governed in their
decisions accordingly Also. that the delegation authorized by
the Eastern Cherokees to make arrangements with MajorGeneral Scott for their removal to this country shall continue
in charge of that business, with their present powers, until it
shall be finally closed, and, also, that all rights and titles to
public Cherokee lands on the east or west of the River Mississippi, with all other public interests which may have vested in
either branch of the Cherokee family, whether inherited from
our fathers or derived from any other source, shall henceforward vest entire and unimpaired in the Cherokee Nation as
constituted by this union.

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
Opumon of the Court.

"Given under our hands, at Illinois camp grounds, this
twelfth day of July, 1838.
"By order of the national convention.
"GEORGE LOWRY,
"P'esident of the Eastern Cherokees.
his

"GEORGE x GUESS,
mark.

"Presdent of the WeStern Cherokees."
On the 6th of September following they adopted a constitution of government, in which they recited that the Eastern
and Western Cherokees had become reunited in one body politic, under the style and title of the Cherokee Nation. The
second clause of its first article is as follows
"The lands of the Cherokee Nation shall remain common
property, but the improvements made thereon, and in the
possession of the citizens of the nation, are the exclusive and
indefeasible property of the citizens respectively who made,
or may rightfully be in possession of, them Provided, that
the citizens of the nation, possessing exclusive and indefeasible
right to their improvements, as expressed in this article, shall
possess no right or power to dispose of their improvements in
any manner whatever to the United States, individual States,
or to individual citizens thereof, and that whenever any citizen
shall remove with his effects out of the limit of this nation and
become a citizen of any other government, all his rights and
privileges as a citizen of this nation shall cease Provided,
nevertheless, that the national council shall have power to readmit by law to all the rights of citizenship any such person
or persons who may at any time desire to return to the nation,
on memorializing the national council for such readmission."
But notwithstanding this declared reunion of the divided
Cherokees, there was much bitter feeling between the old settlers and the new-comers, leading to violent contests, and causing, in many instances, great loss of property and life. The
new-comers, being the more numerous, claimed to control the
government of the country, and endeavored to compel the old
voL. cxvi- 20

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

settlers to submit to their rule. The old settlers had an organization of their own and complained that the new-comers occupied their lands and overthrew their organization. And among
the new-comers, also, there was bitterness between those who
had favored the treaty of removal from the east side of the
Mississippi and those who had opposed it. The former sided
with the old settlers, but the latter outnumbered both. Violent measures were resorted to on both sides to carry out their
purposes, and there was little security for person or property
The situation became intolerable, and in 1845 the contending
factions-the old settlers, the treaty party, and the anti-treaty
party-sent delegates to Washington to lay their grievances
before the officials of the United States Government, in the
hope that some relief might be afforded to them. The old settlers and the treaty party desired a division of the people into
two nations and a division of the Territory Demands also
were made by each party against the United States under the
stipulations of the treaty of New Eehota. These circumstances
led to the treaty of August 6, 18416. 9 Stat. 871. It was
negotiated on the part of the Cherokees by delegates appointed
by the regularly constituted authorities of the Cherokee -ation, and by delegates appointed by and representing that
portion of the Cherokee tribe known as the treaty party, and
by delegates appointed by and representing that portion of
the tribe known and recognized as Western Cherokees or the
old settlers. It recited that serious difficulties had for a considerable time existed between the different parties of the
people constituting and recognized as the Cherokee Nation
of Indians, which it was desirable should be speedily settled,
so that peace and harmony might be restored among them,
and that certain claims existed on the part of the Cherokee
Nation and portions of the Cherokee people against the United
States, and that, with a view to the final and amicable settlement of these difficulties and claims, the parties had agreed to
the treaty.
It declared that all difficulties and differences existin between the several parties of the Cherokee Nation were sttled
and adjusted, and that they should, as far as possible, be for-

THE CHEROKEE TRUST .FUNDS.
Opinon of the Court.

gotten and forever buried in oblivion, that all party distinctions should cease, except so far as they might be necessary to
carry the treaty into effect, that a general amnesty should be
proclaimed, and that all offences and crimes committed by a
citizen or citizens of the Cherokee Nation against the nation or
an individual were pardoned. It was agreed also that all parties were to unite to enforce laws against future offenders, and
that laws should be passed for equal protection and for security
of life, liberty and property Thus the personal dissensions
were to a great extent healed.
The treaty also declared that the lands occupied by the
Cherokee Nation should be secured to the whole Cherokee
people for their common use and benefit, and that a patent
should be issued for the same, including the eight hundred
thousand acres purchased, together with an outlet west, thus
recognizing that all the lands ceded by the United States for
the benefit of the Cherokees west of the Mississippi belonged
to the entire Nation, and not to any of the factions into which
the Nation was divided. The treaty also made provision for
the adjustment and payment of the claims of different parties.
The 9th Article is as follows
"The United States agree to make a fair and just settlement
of all moneys due to the Cherokees and subject to the per
capita division under the treaty of 29th December, 1835, which
said settlement shall exhibit all money properly expended under said treaty, and shall embrace all sums paid for improvements, ferries, spoliations, removal, and subsistence and commutation therefor, debts and claims upon the Cherokee Nation
of Indians, for the additional quantity of land ceded to said
nation, and the several sums provided in the several articles
of the treaty to be invested as the general funds of the nation,
and also all sums which may be hereafter properly allowed
and paid under the provisions of the treaty of 1835. The
aggregate of which said several sums shall be deducted from
the sum of six million six hundred and forty-seven thousand
and sLxty-seven dollars, and the balance thus found to be due
shall be paid overpjer capita in equal amounts to all those mdividuals, heads of families, or their legal representatives, entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 188.
Opinon of the Court.

to receive the same under the treaty of 1835 and the supplement of 1836, being all those Cherokees residing east at the
date of said treaty and the supplement thereto."
By the treaty of July 19, 1866, 14 Stat. 799, provision was
made for the settlement of friendly Indians on certain unoccupied lands of the Cherokees west of the Mississippi, and for the
sale of their interest, and also for the sale of other lands
belonging to them in the State of Kansas, and the investment
of the proceeds in registered stocks of the United States for
the benefit of the Cherokee Nation. Under it, and pursuant to
other laws, sales were made of the lands mentioned, and also
of other lands west of the Mississippi ceded to the Cherokees
under the different treaties, to which we have referred, and the
proceeds have been duly invested, as required by article twentythird of the treaty The investment constitutes one of the
funds of which the petitioners seek a proportionate part.
Their claim, however, rests upon no solid foundation. The
lands from the sales of which the proceeds were derived belonged to the Cherokee Nation as a political body, and not to
its individual members. They were held, it is true, for the
common benefit of all the Cherokees, but that does not mean
that each member had such an interest, as a tenant in common,
that he could claim aprorataproportion of the proceeds of sales
made of any part of them. He had a right to use parcels of
the lands thus held by the Nation, subject to such rules as its
governing authority might prescribe, but that right neither
prevented nor qualified the legal power of that authority to
cede the lands and the title of the Nation to the United States.
Our government, by its treaties with the Cherokees, recognized
them as a distinct political community, and so far independent
as to justify and require negotiations with them in that character. Their treaties of cesgion must, therefore, be held not
only to convey the common property of the Nation, but to divest the interest therein of each of its members. Such was substantially the language, and such the decision of the Attorney
General of the United States in a communication made to the
President in 1845, with reference to the treaty of New Echota.
"The Executive of the United States," he said, "must, there-

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
Opmion of the Court.

fore, regard the treaty of New Echota as binding on the whole
Cherokee tribe, and the Indians, whether in Georgia, Alabama,
Tennessee, or North Carolina, are bound by its provisions. As
a necessary consequence, they are entitled to its advantages.
The North Carolina Indians, in asking the benefit of the removal and subsistence commutation, necessarily admit the
binding influence of the treaty on them and their rights.
They cannot take its benefits without submitting to its burdens. The Executive must regard the treaty as the supreme
law, and as a law construe its provisions." Attorney-General
:Mason, 4 Opins. Attys. Gen. 435, 437.
Whatever rights, therefore, the Cherokees in North Carolina,
who refused to join their countrymen in the removal to the
lands ceded to them west of the Mississippi, can claim in the
funds arising from sales of portions of such lands, or in the
fund created by a commutation of the annuities granted upon
cessions of the lands of the Cherokee Nation, must depend
entirely upon the treaties out of which those funds originated.
They have as yet received nothing from either of them, and
they can claim nothing by virtue of the fact that the lands of
the Nation, which its authorities ceded to the United States,
were held for the common benefit of all the Cherokees. All public property of a nation is supposed to be held for the common
benefit of its people, their individual interest is not separable
from that of the Nation.
The Cherokees in North Carolina dissolved their connection
with their Nation when they refused to accompany the body
of it on its removal, and they have had no separate political
organization since. Whatever unibn they have had among
themselves has been merely a social or business one. It was
formed in 1868, at the suggestion of an officer of the Indian
office. for the purpose of enabling them to transact business
with the Government with greater convemence. Although its
articles are drawn in the form of a constitution for a separate
civil government, they have never been recognized as a separate Nation by the United States, no treaty has been made
with them, they can pass no laws, they are citizens.of that
State and bound by its laws. As well observed by the Court

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

of Claims, in its exhaustive opinion, they have been in some
matters. fostered and encouraged by the United States, but
never recognized as a Nation in whole or in part. 20 0. CL
449-483.
Nor is the band, organized as it now is, the successor of any
organization recognized by any treaty or law of the United
States. Individual Indians who refused to remove west, and
preferred to remain and become citizens of the States in which
they resided, were promised certain moneys, but there is no
evidence that the petitioners have succeeded to any of their
rights. The original claimants have probably all died, for
fifty years have elapsed since the treaty of 1835 was made, and
no transfer from them or their legal representatives is shown.
But assuming that the petitioners properly represent all rightful demands of the Cherokees living in North Carolina when
the treaty was made, what were those demands , As designated
by articles twelve and fifteen of the treaty, these Cherokees
were to receive "their due portion of all the personal benefits
accruing under the treaty, for their claims, improvements, and
per capita." The term "claims" had reference to demands for
spoliations of their property which existed prior to the treaty
The improvements were those made on the property ceded.
By _per capita was meant the proportionate amount, given to
each Cherokee east not choosing to emigrate, of the money received on the cession of the lands east of the Mississippi, after
deducting certain expenditures mentioned in article fifteen.
Whatever may have remained for the per capita distribution,
of the $5,000,000 received for the lands after the deductions
mentioned, it is plain that it constituted no portion of the
moneys that formed the fund of which the petitioners seek by
this suit a proportionate part. By the treaty of 1846 certain
sums were allowed in addition to the $5,000,000 specified in
the treaty of 1835, and from the whole amount certain items,
other than those three designated, were to be deducted, and
the balance was to be paid over per capita in equal amounts to
all the individuals, heads of families, or their legal representatives entitled to receive it under that treaty But this change
in no respect affects the case.

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
Opmion of the Court.

When the treaty of 1846 was under negotiation, one William
H. Thomas appeared in, Washington as the representative of
Cherokees m North Carolina and urged a recognition of their
demands for the per capitamoney and the removal and subsistence money under articles eight and twelve of the treaty of
1835. He had obtained a statement from one of the commissioners who negotiated that treaty on the part of the United
States, from several respectable persons who were privy to the
negotiations, and from some of the Cherokees who signed the
treaty, as to the meaning which should be given to certain
terms used m it, and we are referred to these documents as
though they should have some influence upon the construction
of those terms. But it is too plain for controversy that they
cannot be used to control the language of the treaty or guide
in its construction.
The per capita money and removal and subsistence money
had not been paid when the treaty of 1846 was made, but the
Court of Claims finds that since then they have been paid. The
claim now presented by the Cherokees of North Carolina to a
share of the commuted annuity fund of $214,000, and of the
fund created by sales of lands west of the Mississippi ceded to
the Cherokee Nation, resting, as it does, upon the designation
in the treaties of the lands originally possessed by the Cherokees and ceded to the United States, or subsequently acquired
by them from the United States, as "the common property of
the nation," or as held for the "common use and benefit" of
the Cherokee people, has no substantial foundation. If Indians in that State, or in any other State east of the Mississippi,
wish to enjoy the benefits of the common property of the Cherokee Nation, in whatever form it may exist, they must, as held
by the Court of Claims, comply with the constitution and laws
of the Cherokee Nation and be readmitted to citizenship as
there provided. They cannot live out of its Territory, evade
the obligations and burdens of citizenship, and at the same time
enjoy the benefits of the funds and common property of the
Nation. Those funds and that property were dedicated by the
constitution of the Cherokees, and were intended by the treaties with the United States, for the benefit of the united Nation,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

and not in any respect for those who had separated from it
and become aliens to their Nation. We see no just ground on
which the claim of the petitioners can rest to share in either of
the funds held by the United States in trust for the Cherokee
Nation, and the decree of the Court of Claims must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

PH(ENIX INSURANCE COMPANY v. ERIE AND
WESTERN TRANSPORTATION COMPANY
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

FOR

Argued January 19, 20, 186.-Decided March 1, 1886.

The right, by way of subrogation, of an insurer, upon paying for a total loss
of the goods insured, to recover over against third persons, is only that
right which the assured has.
A common earrer may lawfully obtain insurance on the goods carried against
loss by the usual perils, though occasioned by the negligence of ns own
servants.
In a bill of lading, which provides that the carrier. shall not be liable for loss
or damage of the goods by fire, collision, or dangers of navigation, a further
provision that the carrier, when liable for the loss, shall have the full benefit of any insurance that may have been effected upon the goods, is valid,
as between the carrier and the shipper; and therefore, in the absence of any
misrepresentation or intentional concealment by the shipper in obtaining
insurance upon the goods, or of any express stipulation on the subject in the
policy, limits the right, by way of subrogatii, of the insurer, upon paying
to the shipper the amount of a loss by stranding, occasioned by the negligence of the carrier's servants, to recover over against the carrer.

This was a libel in admiralty against a common carrier by
an insurance company which had insured the owners upon the
goods carried, and had paid them the amount of the insurance,
and claimed to be subrogated to their rights against the carrier. The defence relied on was that, by a provision of the
contract of carriage, the carrier was to have the benefit of any
insurance upon the goods. The District Court held that this
provision was valid, and therefore no right of subrogation

