OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

provide for the common defence and general welfare of the
United States.
The question whether the taxes laid under authority of the
State can be collected in this suit depends upon the question
whether they were lawfully assessed. But all the assessments
were unlawful, because made while the land was owned by the
United States. The assessments, being unlawful, created no
lien upon the land. Those taxes, therefore, cannot be collected, even since the plaintiffs in error have redeemed or purchased the land from the United States.
Whether the Supreme Court of Tennessee rightly construed
the provisions of the Constitution and statutes of the State as
not exempting from taxation land belonging to the United
States, exclusive jurisdiction over which had not been ceded
by the State, is quite immaterial, because. for the reasons and
upon the authorities above stated, this court is of opinion that
neither the people nor the legislature of Tennessee had power,
by constitution or statute, to tax the land in question, so long
as the title remained in the United States.
The result 's, that the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
State of Tennessee must be reversed, and the case remanded
to that court for further _proceedings 2% conformity witA
ths oimnson.

GRAP'FAM & Another v. BURGESS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
0

Argued December 3, 1885.-Decided March 1, 186.

A judicial sale of real estate will not be set aside for inadequacy of price,
unless the inadequacy be so great as to shock the conscience, or unless
there be additional circumstances azainst its fairness.
Great inadequacy of price at a judicial sale of real estate requires only slight
circumstances of unfairness in the conduct of the party benefited by the
sale, to raise a presumption of fraud.
If the inadequacy of price paid for the purchase of real estate at a sale on an

GRAFFAM v. BURGESS.
Opinion of the Court.

X

execution be so gross as to shock the conscience, or if in addition to gross
inadequacy the purchaser has been guilty of unfairness or has taken any
undue advantage, or if the owner of the property or the party interested in
it has been for any other reason misled or surprised, then the sale will be
regarded as fraudulent and void, and the party injured will be permitted
to redeem the property sold.
Looking at the whole facts in this case the court finds traces of design on the
part of plaintiff in error to mislead defendant in error, to lull her into
security, and thus prevent her from redeeming her property sold on execution within the period allowed by the Statute of the State; and the court
sustains the action of the court belbw in making a decree allowing redemption of the same after the expiration of that period.
After hearing of the proofs, a bill in equity may be amended so as to put in
issue matters in dispute and in proof, but not sufficiently put in issue by
the original bill.

This was a bill to redeem from a sale of real estate an Massachusetts under an execution issued from one of the State
courts. The suit was commenced after the expiration of the
period allowed by the Statutes of that State for redeeming
from such a sale. The facts which make the case are stated
in the opinion of the court.
Mftr A. A. ?an~ney for appellants.
.Mr John. owell for appellee.
MR. JusTmcE BRA.DLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was a bill in equity filed on the 10th of July, 1880, by
Christine J Burgess, the appellee, against Peter Graffam, Samuel M. Fairfield, Edward B. Newhall, and others, to compel
Graffam to deliver up to her certain lands and premises unlawfully held by him (as alleged), and for other and further relief.
The bill alleged that the complainant had for many years
been the owner in fee simple of the premises in question, a
house and lot in the town of Melrose, Middlesex County, Massachusetts, unencumbered and worth at least $10,000, that
complainant generally occupied the property as a summer
residence, and, when not occupying it herself, rented it out to
tenants with the furniture therein, and that her general residence was with her husband in Providence, Rhode Island. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

was further alleged that in the fall of 1877 the complainant
had some mason work done by Peter Graffam, one of the defendants, the bill for which was $23, that the complainant
objected to paying the bill on the ground that the work
was badly done, that in January, 1879, Graffam employed
Samuel M. Fairfield, an attorney, one of the defendants, to sue
the complainant for this bill, by attachment, in the Middlesex
District Court, and that on the 10th of March, 1879,. he
recovered judgment against her for $28.95 damages and
$16.15 costs -That execution was issued on this judgment,
and the whole property was sold by the sheriff, at his office in
M alden, on the 17th of May, 1879, and that Graffam became
the purchaser for $73.10, and the sheriff gave him a deed That in January, 1879, Edward B. iNewhall, a real estate
agent, pretending to have a claim of $30 against the complainant for services, employed Fairfield to sue the same, and an
attachment was issued, and judgment recovered on the same
10th of March, 1879, and execution issued and levied on the
interest of complainant remaining in the premises after the
sale to Graffam -And that a sale was made of said interest to
Newhall on the 13th of August, 1879, for $81.21, and a deed
was given to him by the sheriff accordingly. The complainant
alleges that neither of these claims was valid against her, and
that the parties knew it -That when the levies and sales were
made the complainant had $3000 worth of furniture and
personal property in the house entirely unencumbered, and
had a well-known agent in the neighborhood, and a tenant in
the house until June 1, 1879, after which she occupied it
herself until the fall, that she also had an attorney in Massachusetts known to the defendants, but that no notice of such
sale was ever communicated to her, her attorney, agent, or
tenant.-That in 1880, from and after the Ist of May, the
complainant expended $1200 in repairs to the house and
grounds -That Graffam and the other defendants meanwhile
conspired together to keep her in ignorance of the sale until
the year, allowed by the statules of Massachusetts for redeeming the property, had expired -That in pursuance of this
scheme Graffam bought out N~ewhall, who, by his subsequent

GRAFFAM'v. BURGESS.
Opinion of the Court.

purchase, had a right to redeem the property from the sale to
Graffam -That the year for redemption having expired on
the 17th of Mlay, 1880, on the 22d of June thereafter, Graffam,
Fairfield and others, during the temporary absence of the complainant from the house, seized their opportumty, entered upon
the premises, broke into the house, and took possession of it in
behalf of Graffam, removed all the funiture and other personal
property, including the wearing apparel of complainant, of her
husband and servant, took possession of her private correspondence and papers, and the sum of $170 in money, and still
held possession of all of said property at the time of filing the
bill.-That complainant, on being informed of this proceeding,
immediately caused an investigation to be made, and for the
first time learned of the sales made under the executions That she thereupon entered into negotiation with Graffam to.
try to get a settlement, and offered to pay him all that the
property had been sold for, and such reasonable costs and
charges as he had sustained, but that he refused any arrangement unless she would pay him $1100, which he claimed was due
him by reason of the large sums he had expended to employ
counsel and men to watch and advise him of the complainant's,
absence, so that he could take possession. The bill states that
Graffam still had keepers in possession of the house, who were
injuring it by their wanton conduct, and that the complainant
was informed that Graffam intended to sell the property,
and was soliciting offers for it. An answer under oath was
waived. On the 16th of June, 1880, an amendment to the bill
was filed, alleging that Graffam, to carry out his fraud, had
conveyed the property to one Herbert F Doble for the nominal consideration of $5000, and stated several circumstances
to show that it was not a bonO fXde transaction. The deed
was dated before the filing of the bill, but it was charged that
it was not executed till afterwards, and that the date was a
false one. Doble was made a party
The defendants severally answered, but as the answers were
not required to be under oath, it is unnecessary to recite them.
The parties went into proofs, and the cause was heard before
the court below, which, in January, 1882, announced its opinion,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

that the case was one for redemption, but not for entire annulment of proceedings and unconditional surrender of the property on account of fraud, therefore, dismissing the bill against
all the defendants except Graffam and Doble, the court gave
the complainant leave to amend her bill on payment to the defendants of costs and reasonable counsel fees. The complainant
amended her bill accordingly, by adding an offer to pay into
court the amount of the two judgments recovered against her
by Graffam and Newhall, with interest, and praying for permission to redeem the property, and that Graffam and Doble
might be required to account for rents and profits, and to reconvey to her. This amendment was first objected to, and
then demurred to, but objections and demurrer being overruled,
the defendants filedt an answer, setting up that the application
to redeem came too late, and that no sufficient offer was made
to entitle complainant to redeem, that defendants were entitled
to $2000 for expenses, &c. The complainant paid into court
the defendants' costs, $215.45, a counsel fee of $150 allowed by
the court, and $181.24, the amount of the two judgments and
sales under the same, with interest.
I Thereupon, the court made a decree, dated April 21, 1882,
whereby, after reciting the payment of the money into court
by the complainant, and that the defendants, Graffam and
Doble, had collected certain rents and made certain payments,
and had made charges for services, and for the custody and
care of the premises, and that these accounts and items had
been submitted directly to the court without reference to a
master, and the court having found and declared that the defendants, Graffam and Doble, were sufficiently paid by the
rents received bythem for all said charges and expenses, it was
then decreed as follows, namely, "that the complainant is entitled to redeem the premises without further payments for
such redemption, that the said defendants, Graffam and Doble,
are entitled to receive the sums already paid into court for their
benefit, and to retain the rents received by them, and that the
said defendants, Graffam and Doble, make conveyance of the
real estate described in the bill to the complainant, free from
all encumbrances made or suffered by or through them." It

GRAFFAM v. BURGESS.
Opinion of the Court.

was also referred to a master to determine the form of conveyance to be made pursuant to the decree, to receive said conveyance, duly executed, and to deliver the same to the complainant, and report proceedings. The master reported the form of
a deed, which was approved, and the defendants were ordered
to execute it. From this decree the defendants, Graffam and
Doble have appealed.
We do not propose to review the evidence in the case in detail. We have carefully examined it and find the principal allegations of the bill to be true, and are convinced that, whilst
the complainant was apprised of the suits of Graffam and Newhall instituted against her by attachment, in her absence, in
January, 1879, and employed counsel to defend them, yet that
she was totally ignorant of the issue of executions on the
judgments in those cases, and of the sale of her property
under the same and of the legal rights which Graffam acquired, or might acquire, by the lapse of a year's time after the
sale. We are satisfied that she was unconscious of the position
in which her property stood, and that Graffam knew that she
was unconscious of it, and endeavored to keep her so, and took
an inequitable advantage 6f her ignorance to get possession of
her property, and to get her in his power. Even if it be true,
as the court below supposed, that the evidence was insufficient
to make out a case of conspiracy and fraud, that would sustain
a decree for unconditional delivery of the property as originally
prayed, we think it is abundantly sufficient to justify the decree which the court below did make, allowing the complainant
to redeem upon payment of debt, interest, costs, and counsel
fees. In our judgment of the case, the defendants ought to be
well satisfied with this disposition of the case.
It is a principle of law, as well as of natural justice, that
greater consideration and care are due to persons known to be
unable to take care of themselves, than to those who are fully
able to do so. The driver of a team, seeing a child or awoman,
or a person of known feeble intellect, in the street, is bound to
exercise greater care and diligence to avoid doing them harm,
than would be obligatory if it was a grown and capable man.
In dealing with a man, whose rights, without his knowledge,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court

but which by.due diligence he might know, are passing away
by lapse of time into another's hands, the latter may, perhaps,
justify himself in the eye of the law (though not in conscience)
in preserving a wary and crafty silence, so as to put his victim
off his guard and bring him into his own power, whilst he
would be perfectly inexcusable in taking such advantage of a
woman, unskilled in business, and unused to the stratagems
which are sometimes resorted to by unscrupulous persons.
In view of this just standard of human action, which a court
of equity always recognizes, the conduct of the defendant,
Graffam, appears in a very unenviable light.
What is the scheme which has been carried out, and'is now
sought to be sustained in this court 2 Nothing more nor less
than to get and keep possession of the complainant's property,
worth $10,000, to satisfy a paltry claim of less than $200; and
this has been accomplished by keeping from her all knowledge
of the device, lulling her into security until the year for redemption passed by, having her operations watched and her footsteps dogged, and clandestinely seizing possession in her temporary absence.
It is insisted that the proceedings were all conducted accordmg to the forms of law Very likely Some of the most
atrocious frauds are committed in that way Indeed, the
greater the fraud intended, the more particular the parties to
it often are to proceed according to the strictest forms of law
Considering the amount of the stake to be won, and the
overwhelming injury to be inflicted upon an unsuspecting
woman, it is difficult to regard with equanunity the proceedings of the defendant as the year of redemption drew to its
close, and after it had terminated. The fact is virtually admitted that he kept up a regular corps of spies to watch her
movements whilst she was laying out hundreds of dollars in
repairs on the property, in order to find a favorable moment,
when she was absent, to take possession of her home, and that
he seized such a moment, and did take possession, and removed
all her furniture and chattels, even to her clothing and private
papers, and virtually turned her into the streets. These admitted facts are enough of themselves to show the animus and

GRAFFAM v. BURGESS.
Opinion of -the Court.

intent of the defendant. No man with an honest purpose
could have done this, whatever aggravation he may have had
relating to the payment of his claim. There were other methods to which he could and would have resorted. A piano or a
mirror would probably have satisfied his whole claim.
The pretence that, before striking the blow, he gave the
complainant warning, by calling upon her and telling her that
he had boughb the premises, and that she must settle the case,
does not palliate the defendant's conduct, or change its bearing
on the case. It was evidently.done, not for the purpose of
gettinghis money, or getting an arrangement, but to give a
better coloring to his proceedings. We only have his story as
to what he said. The instructions of his lawyer were " to ask
her for a settlement of the claims which he held, and to tell
her that, unless they were paid immediately, he would -have
to take itout of her property"
This is probably what he
said, and it was well calculated to mislead the complainant
as to her real position and the defendant's intentions and
power. She would not understand, from what he said, that her
property was in any immediate peril. Why did, he not tell
her that the property was sold at sheriff's sale, and that the
time for redeeming it was about expiring, and that if it expired
he could retain the whole property forever 2 He evidently did
not wish it redeemed, for then she would only have had. to pay
the debts, or the amounts bid. H[e wanted to get her into his
power. He was willing to let her go on and spend some few
more hundreds of dollars inrepairs. These were certainly all,
or mostly, made after the 17th of May Standing by and seeing her doing this, and letting her go on without informing
her of her position and of his rights, considering the character
of the respective parties, was itself a fraud.
Mr. Brown, the- complainant's counsel, having called upon
Fairfield, as Graffain's attorney, after the seizure of the premises, to ascertain what arrangement could be made, testifies
that the latter demanded for his client $750, and a full discharge of all liability on account of the removal of the personal
property, and that one reason assigned by him for demanding
such a large amount was that Graffam had spent a great deal

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of his time in watching the property, and should be paid liberally The witness continued, "I asked him what was the
occasion of watching the property He said they watched the
property to see what Mrs. Burgess was doing with it until the
year expired, and that since that he had employed men to
watch the property in order to ascertain when Mrs. Burgess
was away, so that they could get in and take possession. He
said that arrangement continued until the 22d of June, when
he received a dispatch at his office in Boston stating that Mrs.
Burgess was away, that then- he took some person with him
from Boston, as a keeper, went to Melrose on the next train, and
assisted in opening one of the back windows of the house, and
went in and took out the property I said to him, ' what was
the need of your watching the propefty 2 Did you not understand that before the year had expired from the date of the
sale on the execution of Peter Graffam against Mrs. Burgess,
Edward B. N~ewhall, the purchaser of the right of redemption
under the subsequent sale on his execution, was bound to come
in and redeem from the sale to Peter Graffam or lose his
debt 2' To which he replied that he understood that very well,
that he advised his client, Peter Oraffam, to purchase the Newhall title by sheriff's sale, and wait until the expiration of the
year from the sale to Newhall before the matter was stirred
up, and he added-I give his language almost verbatim-'Mr.
Brown, we have had trouble enough with this woman, and we
never intended that she should redeem this property if we could
help it."' "He repeated that when they went into this matter they intended to clean her out."
Fairfield denies these expressions, it is true, but they are so
consonant with what actually took place, that we may suppose
that he did not recollect precisely what he did say Brown
says that he caused the conversation to be taken down in short
hand as soon as he returned to his own office. It is true that
Fairfield's declarations ought not to be used against Graffam,
except when made by him in the course of his business as Graffam's attorney It is in this point of view that they have been
noticed.
The testimony of Conant, the complainant's agent, is signifi-

GRAFFAM v. BURGESS.
Opimon of the Court.

cant in this connection. He was in Melrose when the defendant was removing the personal property He went to the
house to see what was the matter. He knew the teamster, and
the man who was loading the wagon. He says "I asked the
cause of all this trouble. I conversed mostly with a blackhaired man, who appeared to be the keeper in charge, he told
me it was about a mason's bill. I asked him the amount, and
also asked him for time to telegraph to Mrs. Burgess, and I
would see that the bill was paid within ten minutes. He said,
.No,she had had time enough. This was between eight and nine
.o'clock at night. I stayed there about an hour."
In any light in which Graffam's conduct may be viewed, it
is clear that he did not pursue an open, straightforward course.
As we view the proofs, lie evidently conceived the design of
getting the complainant's property for a mere nominal consideration, or else, of getting her into his power so as to compel
her to comply with any exorbitant demands he might choose
to make. He knew she was ignorant of the sale, and of the
position in which the sale placed her. He stood by and saw
her expending large sumsof money on the property in total
unconsciousness of his proceedings, and of the means of injuring her which he held in his hands. Instead of undeceiingher
he gave her a mere perfunctory notice, that if she did not settle the claims which he held he would have to take it out of
her property, and pursued just such a course as was calculated
to lull instead of exciting any suspicions of the real danger in
which she stood, all the time purposing to take possession of
the property for his own use as soon as her back was turned,
and keeping spies to watch her proceedings, and to find a favorable opportunity of clandestinely slipping into the premises in
her absence. If this is -not fraud, we should have great difficulty in defining what fraud is.
That the defendant sought to put all possible embarrassments
in the way of the redemption of the property, is evinced by the
device resorted to of getting an assignment of Newhall's claim.
1ewhall had purchased all the.interest of the complainant remainig in the property after the sale to Graffam, which included the right of redemption. The testimony given on this

OCTOBER TERIM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

subject by Graffam's counsel, Fairfield, indicates the object of
this move. "I formed," says he, "an opimon in the premises
that Newhall had a right to redeem the Graffam title or claim,
and as I was counsel for both, I stated to Newhall that he had
the right if he desired it, and told him and Peter Graffam, also,
that one had better buy the other out and hold both claims.
Newhall was not disposed to do it and Graffam was, so I settled the matter in that way"
Then the pretended sale to Doble, at the time, and under the
circumstances it was made, shows a design to place the property beyond the complainant's reach. It is very obvious, from
the evidence, that this was a sham sale. Graffam evidently saw
that a day of reckoning was coming, and the property must be
placed out of his hands. A deed was drawn with the nominal
consideration of $5000, first, to N. L. Graffam, one of Peter
Graffam's counsel in the case. That was abandoned. The deed
was changed by erasing N. L. Graffam's name and inserting
Doble's under an arrangement in writing, which writing was
called for and promised, but never produced, but we infer from
Doble's own testimony that he was to be held harmless. This
change was not effected until the 13th of July, 1880, three days
after the bill was filed in this case, but the date of the deed is
the 0th of July and the date of the acknowledgment (taken
before the attorney, Fairfield,) is the 7th of July, which, of
course, cannot be the true date, since it is testified that the acknowledgment was not taken until Doble gave his check, which
is dated the 13th. Doble testifies that he was to pay $1600
for the property, the consideration in the deed being $5000,
and the property worth $10,000. The transaction is marked
alJ over with evidences of fraud and simulation.
Looking at the whole case, the traces of design on the part
of Graffam to mislead the complainant, to lull her into security,
and thus to prevent her from redeeming the property, are abundantly manifest, and such design must be assumed as an established fact in the case.
It is hardly necessary to cite authorities on a matter the
solution of which depends on the application of such obvious
principles of equity and justice. As already perceived, we

GRAFFAM v. BURGESS.
Opinion of the Court.

do not rest our conclusion alone upon the gross inadequacy
of the consideration of the sale, but upon that, in connection
with the unfair conduct of the defendant in taking advantage
of the complainant's ignorance of the sale, and giving her no
intelligible notice or intimation of it, or of his intended seizure
of the property after the year of redemption had passed, but
standing by and seeing her expend large sums of money upon
it, even after the year had expired. This, we think, presents a
case sufficiently strong to justify the action of the court below,
at least to the extent to which it went in making the decree
appealed from. A few legal propositions, with a reference to
the decisions on which they rest, is all that we deem it necessary to state.
It was formerly the rule m England, m chancery sales, that
until confirmation of the master's report, the bidding would be
opened upon a mere offer to advance the price ten per centum.
2 Damell's Oh. Pr., 1st Ed. 924, 2d Ed. by Perkins, 1465-,
1467*, Sugden on Vendors & Purchasers, 14th Eng. Ed. 114.
But Lord Eldon expressed much dissatisfaction with this practice of opening biddings upon a mere offer of an advanced price,
as tending to diminish confidence in such sales, to keep bidders
from attending, and to.diminish the amount realized. TF7nite
v TFilson, 14 Yes. 151, Williams v. Attenborough, Turner &
Russell, 75, TVhte v Damon, 7 Yes. 30, 34. Lord Eldon's views
were finally adopted in England in The Sale of Land by Auction Act, 1867, 30 and 31 Viet., c. 48, ยง 7, so that now the
highest bidder at a sale by auction of land, under an order of
the court, provided he has bid a sum equal to, or higher than,
the reserved price (if any), will be declared and allowed the
purchaser, unless the court or judge, on the ground of fraud or
improper conduct in the management of the sale, upon the
application of any person interested in the land, either opens
the biddings, or orders the property to be resold. 1 'Sugden on Vendors & Purchasers, 14th Ed. by Perlns, 114,
note (a ).
In this country Lord Eldon's views were adopted at an early
day by the courts, and the rule has become almost universal,
that a sale will not be set aside for inadequacy of price, unless

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the inadequacy be so great as to shock the conscience, or unless
there be additional circumstances against its fairness, being
very much the rule that always prevailed in England as to setting aside sales after the master's report had been confirmed.
Livzngston v. Byrne, 11 Johns. 555, 566, [1814], WVilliamsom
v. Dale, 3 Johns. Ch. 290, 292, [1818], Howell v Baker, 4
Johns. Oh. 118, [1819] Tiernan,v. Wilson, 6 Johns. Oh. 411,
[1822], Duncan v Dodd, 2 Paige, 99, [1830], Collier v.
ITF ,ple, 13 Wend. 224, 226, [1834], Trpff v. Cook, 26 Wend.
143, Lefevre v La.raway, 22 Barb. 167, 173, Seaman v. iggins, 1 Green's Oh. (2 N. J Eq.) 214, Eberhardtv Gilchrist,
3 Stockt. (11 N. J Eq.) 167, Campbell v Gardner, 3 Stockt.
(11 N. J Eq.) 423, farlalt v. Warwzck, 3 0. E. Green, (18
N. J Eq.) 108, -EIopzng v Stellmacker, 6 0. E. Green, (21
N. J Eq.) 328, TVetzler v. Schauman, 9 0. E. Green, (24 N.
J Eq.) 60, Carson's Sale, 6 Watts. 140, Surget v. Byers,
Ilempst. 715, Byers v Surget, 19 How 303, Andrews v
Scoton, 2 Bland, 629, Glenn v Clapp, 11 G. & J 1, House
v. WValkeer, 4 Maryland Oh. 62, Young v Teague, 1 Bailey
Eq. 13, 14, TVite v Floyd, Speer's Eq. 351, Hart v Bleeght,
3 T. B. Mon. 273, Reed v Carter, 1 Blackford, 410, Pierce
v. ICneeland, 7 Wise. 224, 3fontague v Dawes, 14 Allen, 369,
Drinanv iVichols, 115 M ass. 353.
From the cases here cited we may draw the general conclusion that, if the inadequacy of price is so gross as to shock
the conscience, or if, in addition to gross inadequacy, the purchaser has been guilty of any unfairness, or has taken any
undue advantage, or if the owner of the property, or party
interested in it, has been for any other reason, misled or surprised, then the sale will be regarded as fraudulent and void,
or the party injured will be permitted to redeem the property
sold. Great inadequacy requires only slight circumstances of
unfairness in the conduct of the party benefited by the sale to
raise the presumption of fraud.
In Rowell v Baker, ub? supra,where the case was a sale by
a sheriff, grossly inadequate as to price, and was made on
a stormy day, and the attorney was the purchaser, and no one
was present but him and the sheriff, Chancellor Kent held the

GRAFFAM v. BURGESS.
Opinion of the Court.

purchaser as a trustee for both parties, and allowed the debtor
to redeem.
In ZYlaoppzng v Sellmacker, where there was a sheriff's sale
for fifty-two dollars, of property worth two thousand dollars,
belonging to a party who was ignorant, stupid and perverse,
and would not believe that his property would be sold for such
a paltry amount, though told that it would be, Chancellor
Zabriskie, after conceding that mere inadequacy of price at a
sheriff's sale is not sufficient ground to set aside a conveyance,
added "But when such gross inadequacy is combined with
fraud or mistake, or any other ground of relief in equity, it
will incline the court strongly to afford relief. The sale in this
case is a great oppression on the complainants. They are ignorant, stupid, perverse, and poor. They lose by it all their
property, and are ill fitted to acquire more. They are such as
this court should incline to protect, notwithstanding perverseness." The Chancellor allowed the complainant to redeem the
property by paying the purchase price and costs.
Byers v Sur'get, 19 How 303, was a case of sheriff's sale at
a very grossly inadequate price, and the purchaser was an attorney in the case. Mr. Justice Daniel, delivering the opinion
of this court, after giving a history of the transaction, said
"Such is the history of a transaction which the appellant asks
of this court to sanction, and it seems pertinent here to inquire,
under what system of civil polity, under what code of law or
ethics, a transaction like that disclosed by the record in this
case, can be excused, or even palliated."
The two cases cited from the Massachusetts Reports, were
sales by mortgagees, but the principles on which these cases
rest are the same as in those of sale by the sheriff or other officer.
In .Drnan, v iVichouls, the sale was made in apparent good
faith, except that the mortgagee knew that the owner had paid
the accruing interest to the former owner who had given the
mortgage, and expected that he would pay it over to the mortgagee. But this not being done, the mortgagee made the sale,
without giving any notice to the owner. The court, speaking
through Judge Endicott, say "The mortgagee knew that the
plaintiff, as administrator of her husband's estate, intending to
VOL. cXvIT-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

protect the interests of his minor children, had actually paid
the money through the accustomed channel, and expected it
would be paid by Pope to the mortgagee. With such knowledge of the position and expectation of the plaintiffs, a proper
execution of the power, and a due regard to the rights and interest of the mortgagor or those having his estate in the premises, required of the mortgagee, when after a i'easonable time it
became evident that Pope would not pay, that notice should
be given to the plaintiff, and a bare compliance with the terms
of the power was not sufficient." This case, in its principles, is
very analogous to the one now under consideration.
Mr. Kerr, in his treatise on Fraud and Mistake, says "Inadequacy of consideration, if it be of so gross a nature as to
amount in itself to conclusive and decisive evidence of fraud, is
a ground for cancelling the transaction." Kerr on Fraud, Am.
Ed. 186. Chancellor Desaussure, in the case of Butler v ITaskeZZ, 4 Desaussure, 651, 697, on the same subject, says "I consider the result of the greau body of the cases to be, that wherever the court perceives that a sale of property has been made
at a grossly iuaciequate price, such as would shock a correct
mind, this inadequacy furnishes a strong, and in general a conclusive, presumption, though there be no direct proof of fraud,
that an undue advantage has been taken of the ignorance, the
weakness, or the distress and necessity of the vendor, and this
imposes on the purchaser a necessity to remove this violent presumption by the clearest evidence of the fairness of his conduct."
It is true these observations, both of Mr. Kerr and'Chancellor Desaussure, were made in reference to private sales between
parties, and do not strictly apply to judicial sales. But they
show that great inadequacy of price is a circumstance which a
court of equity will always regard with suspicion, unless it appears by the circumstances of the case, or by evidence, that it
is no fault of the buyer.
Some technical objections, however, have been raised. It is
said that it was error in the court to allow the amendment to
redeem. We see no error in this. The case as set out in the
original bill was one either for annulling the sheriff's sale and
decreeing an unconditional delivery of the property, or for a

GRAFFAM v. BURGESS.
Opimon of the Court.

redemption on payment of the amount due. The original
prayer was for the former, and for such other and further relief as to the court should seem meet and the nature of the case
might require. The prayer might have been in the alternative,
either for an unconditional delivery of the property, or, in case
the court should not deem that proper, then for leave to redeem.
Had there beer. an offer to pay the debt the prayer for general
relief would probably have been sufficient to enable the court
to decree a redemption. But as the case made by the bill was
full to the purpose of such a decree, except the formal offer,
and as the proofs supported the bill to that extent at least, we
think the court did perfectly right in allowing the amendment
to be made. Lord Redesdale says "If upon hearing the
if the addicause the plaintiff appears entitled to relief,
for the
made
is
usually
order
an
wanted,
tion of parties alone is
by
adding
the
bill
cause to stand over, with liberty to amend
the proper parties, and in some cases where a matter has not
been put in issue by bill with sufficient precision, the court has,
upon hearing the cause, given the plaintiff liberty to amend the
bill for the purpose of making the necessary alteration." Redesdale Eq. Pl. 326, and see The Tremoio Patent, 23 Wall. 518,
527. "So the court will sometimes at the hearing permit the
prayer of the bill to be amended, so as to make it more consistent with the case made by the plaintiff than the one he has already introduced." 1 Daniell's Oh. Pr., 1st Ed. 474, Ib.2d
Ed. 480, and see Nfeale v 2Tealeq, 9 Wall. 1, Hc rdin v Boyd,
113 U. S. '56, 764. So a formal charge of fraud may be added
when it is necessary and has been omitted. T7amburzee v.
Xennedy, 4 Desaussure, 474, 480.
It is also objected that, as the bill was originally foundel on
a charge of fraud, and the fraud was not proved, the bill should
have been dismissed. It is true the fraud and conspiracy may
not have been proved to the extent and in precisely the aspect
in which they were charged in the bill, so as to authorize the
speoific relief originally prayed for; but we think we have
shown that very material fraud was proved, sufficient to justify
the court in relieving the complainant against the lapse of time
for redeeming her land.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion

Miller, Woods, Matthews, Gray, JJ.

Other objections of a technical character are also raised, but
we do not deem it necessary to notice them. Our views of the
merits of the case are such that, whilst the complainant has
not seen fit to take an appeal, and, therefore, can only ask for
an affirmance of the decree, yet that no mere formal objections
ought to stand in the way of such affirmance. A decree cannot justly be rendered for the defendants.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE MILLER, with whom
WooDs, M . JUSTocE MATrEws, and

concurred M.R. JusTicE
Mr. JUsTICE GRAY, dis-

senting.
In a great many of the States of the Union a period is
allowed of from twelve to fifteen months to redeem real estate
from sale under execution, by payment of the amount for
which it was sold, and interest on that amount. In nearly all
these States this right of redemption attaches in sales made
under chancery decrees as well as judgments at law
In such cases, whether the statute, as in Massachusetts, provides that the conveyance shall be made by the sheriff or other
officer immediately after the sale, or, as in many of the western States, only at the end of the time allowed for redemption,
the title of the purchaser does not become absolute until that
time has expired. In the case before us, it is not denied that
the appellant received the sheriff's deed in accordance with the
law of the State, and that the appellee failed to redeem within
the time allowed.
It is of the utmost importance where this redemption law
prevails, that the right thus granted should be strictly exercised according to the statute. For, in addition to the sanctity
which the law concedes to judicial sales, founded on well-considered reasons of policy as old as the law itself, the favor of
allowing the debtor one year more to save his land, after judgment and sale under execution have fixed his rights, only adds
to his obligation to exercise the right thus granted in strict
accordance with its terms.
In the case before us the judge who rendered the decree
below stated that the conspiracy charged in the bill was not

AKERS v. AKERS.
Statement of Facts.

proved, nor did he rely upon any act of fraud, and for that
reason he refused to set aside the sale, but permitted, under a
new prayer m the bill, the appellee to redeem on payment of
the debt, interest and all costs, including fees of counsel. The
counsel of appellee in the brief expressly declines to rely upon
an actual fraud on the part of Graffam. In our opinion there
is no evidence of such misconduct on his part as afforded any
ground, in law or equity, to justify appellee in her failure to
redeem from the sale. There is no reason why she did not
pay the judgment rendered against her, of which she had full
notice. Cettainly no obstruction was interposed to her exercise of the right of redemption, and no promise made to induce
her to forego it. Yet, after Graffam had acquired a complete
legal title under judicial proceedings which were unimpeachable, the court treats the case as if the whole matter was still
z nferz, and gives further time for redemption.
I do not deem it appropriate to enter into the discussion of
the evidence in this case, but I dissent from the judgment and
the opinion of the court as leading to evil results, in discrediting judicial sales, and embarrassing the due and just exercise
of the right of redemption, by turning it into a question of
judicial discretion.
JUSTICES WooDs, MATTHEWS and GRAY concur m this opinion.

AKERS,. Executor v. AKERS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.

FOR THE

Submitted March 1, 1886.-Decided March 8, 1886.

A suit cannot be removed from a State court under the act of March 3, 1875,
unless the reqisite citizenship for removal existed when the suit was begun, as well as when the application for removal was made.
Gibson v. Bruce, 108 U. S. 561 affirmed and applied.

This cause was commenced in a State court of Tennessee in
Mlarch, 1882. In the following October an order for its re-

