OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

FIDELITY INSURANCE COMPANY v. HUNTINGTOIN.
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT COURT

THE SOUTHERN

OF THE

UNITED

STATES FOR

DISTRICT OF OHIO.

Submitted Mfarch 1, 1886.-Decided March 15, 18S6.

A creditor's bill, to subject incumbered property to the payment of his judgment, by sale and distribution of the proceeds among lien-holders according to priority, creates no separate controversy, as to the separate lienholders parties respondent, within the meaning of the removal acts,
although their respective defences may be separate.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
2Mr Scnuel Dickson, .ffr
. r Eittredge, _ib, .To/n C.
Bullett, and Mr tcwhard C. .Dale,for appellants.
_2r R . A. Hlarrzson, 2fr TWilliam
LZwrence Afamwell, Jr., for appellee.

.. Ramsey, and 2fr

MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This is an appeal under section 5 of the act of March 3, 1875,
18 Stat. 470, ch. 137, from an order of the Circuit Court
remanding a suit which had been removed from a State court.
The case is this Collis P Huntington, a citizen of New
York, recovered a judgment in the Court of Common Pleas of
Scioto County, Ohio, on the 29th of May, 1885, against the
Scioto Valley Railroad Company, an Ohio corporation, for
$639,305.67. Executions were afterwards issued upon this
judgment, and levied upon the railroad, rolling-stock, and
other personal property of the company This property was
covered by several mortgages, or deeds of trust, one to the
Fidelity Insurance Trust and Safe Deposit Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, another to Samuel Thomas, a citizen of
New York, another to the Central Trust Company of New
York, a New York corporation, another to Henry K. M cKarg,
a citizen of New York, another to the Metropolitan Trust

FIDELITY INSURANCE CO. v. HUNTINGTON.

281

Opinion of the Court.

Company of the City of New York, a New York corporation,
and others to various citizens of Ohio. Such being the condition of the property, H~untington began a suit in the Court of
Common Pleas of Scioto County, the object of which was to
marshal the liens and- obtain a sale of the property, free of
incumbrance, to pay his judgment, after satisfying all prior
claims, and, m the meantime, to have a receiver appointed.
To this suit all the several lien-holders were made parties, and
the Fidelity Insurance Trust and Safe Deposit Company answered, setting up its mortgage as a first lien, and asking that
the property be sold and the proceeds applied to the satisfaction of that mortgage debt. This being done, the same company presented a petition for the removal of the suit to the
Circuit Court of the United States, on the ground that there
was in the suit a controversy which was wholly between citizens of different States, and which could be fully determined
as between them, to wit, a controversy between the petitioner,
a citizen of Pennsylvania, and Huntington, the plaintiff, and
all the defendants, except the petitioner, citizens of States other
than Pennsylvania. When the suit was entered in the Circuit
Court it was remanded, and to reverse that order this appeal
was taken.
The suit as brought by Hnntington is a creditor's bill to
subject incumbered property to the payment of his judgment
by a sale, and distribution of the proceeds among lien-holders
according to their respective priorities. There is but a single
cause of action, and that is the equitable execution of a judgment against the property of the judgment debtor. This cause
of action is not divisible. Each of the defendants may have a
separate defence to the action, but we have held many times
that separate defences do not create separate controversies
within the meaning of the removal act. lotwsville and Vashville Railroad Co. v Ide, 114: U. S. 52; Pidnam v. Ingraham,
114 U. S. 57, Ps'e v. Tvedt, 115 U S. 41, Stagnn v ]Vew York,
115 U. S. 248, Sloane v Anderson, ante 275. The judgment sought against the Fidelity Company is incident to the
main purpose of the suit, and the fact that this incident relates
alone to this company does not separate this part of the con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

troversy from the rest of the action. What Huntington wants
is not partial relief settling his rights in the property as against
the Fidelity Company alone, but a complete decree, which will
give him a sale of the entire property free of all incumbrances,
and a division of the proceeds as the adjusted equities of each
and all the parties shall require. The answer of this company
shows the questions that will arise under this branch of the
one controversy, but it does not create another controversy
The remedy which Huntington seeks requires the presence of
all the defendants, and the settlement not of one only, but of
all the branches of the case.
The order remanding the case is
Afirmed,.

KLEIiNSCHMIDT & Others v. McANDREWS & Another.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Argued March 8, 186.-Decided March 22, 1836.

An exception to a decision of the court on a motion for a nonsuit, orderng the
same on the ground that the plaintiff had made no case for the jury, is an
exception within the meaning of ยง 279 of the Montana Code of C4il Procedure.
The record recited the substance and effect of plaintiffs' evidence, a motion
for nonsuit by defendant on the ground that there was no case In law for
the jury, that the motion was granted and judgment ordered to be entered
in favor of defendant, and that the plaintiffs then and there excepted to this
ruling of the court: Held, That the exceptions applied to the whole facts in
the record to which the ruling of law excepted to applied.
A bill of sale of personal property was made at nine o'clock in the evening.
The property was twenty-three miles distant. Possession was delivered at
four o'clock in the morning of the next day, and the vendee remained m
possession until the property was seized in the afternoon of that day, on attachment at the suit of a creditor of the vendor: Held, That this was an
immediate delivery of possession, with continued change of possession,
under a statute of Montana, making sales of personal property, "unless
accompanied by immediate delivery and followed by actual and continued
change of possession," "conclusive evidence of fraud as aganst creditors."

