OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

troversy from the rest of the action. What Huntington wants
is not partial relief settling his rights in the property as against
the Fidelity Company alone, but a complete decree, which will
give him a sale of the entire property free of all incumbrances,
and a division of the proceeds as the adjusted equities of each
and all the parties shall require. The answer of this company
shows the questions that will arise under this branch of the
one controversy, but it does not create another controversy
The remedy which Huntington seeks requires the presence of
all the defendants, and the settlement not of one only, but of
all the branches of the case.
The order remanding the case is
Afirmed,.

KLEIiNSCHMIDT & Others v. McANDREWS & Another.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Argued March 8, 186.-Decided March 22, 1836.

An exception to a decision of the court on a motion for a nonsuit, orderng the
same on the ground that the plaintiff had made no case for the jury, is an
exception within the meaning of ยง 279 of the Montana Code of C4il Procedure.
The record recited the substance and effect of plaintiffs' evidence, a motion
for nonsuit by defendant on the ground that there was no case In law for
the jury, that the motion was granted and judgment ordered to be entered
in favor of defendant, and that the plaintiffs then and there excepted to this
ruling of the court: Held, That the exceptions applied to the whole facts in
the record to which the ruling of law excepted to applied.
A bill of sale of personal property was made at nine o'clock in the evening.
The property was twenty-three miles distant. Possession was delivered at
four o'clock in the morning of the next day, and the vendee remained m
possession until the property was seized in the afternoon of that day, on attachment at the suit of a creditor of the vendor: Held, That this was an
immediate delivery of possession, with continued change of possession,
under a statute of Montana, making sales of personal property, "unless
accompanied by immediate delivery and followed by actual and continued
change of possession," "conclusive evidence of fraud as aganst creditors."

KLIIISCHMIDT v. I cANDREWS.
Statement of Facts.

The plaintiffs in error, who were plaintiffs below, brought
an action of replevm in the District Court for the Third Judicial District in the Territory of Montana, for the recovery of
personal property which had been taken under a writ of attachment by the defendant McAndrews, as sheriff, at the
instance of the other defendant, Bristol, a creditor of one
Ingersoll, whose goods he claimed them to have been at the
time of the levy The plaintiffs claimed title by virtue of a
bill of sale from Ingersoll, made before the seizure under the
attachment.
The transcript of the record showed that the cause came on
for trial on March 22, 1880, before a jury Thd plaintiffs put
m evidence a bill of sale, dated Helena, March 29, 1879 conveymg to them the goods in controversy, consisting of a stock
of merchandise, other personal property, and choses in action,
in the store of Ingersoll in. the town of Vestel, Deer Lodge
County, with authority to sell and dispose of the same, and
apply the proceeds pro rata to the payment of the indebtedness due from Ingersoll to the plaintiffs respectively The
record then contained certain stipulations between the parties
in respect to the conduct of the cause, and a recital of the testimony adduced by the plaintiffs. It then proceeded as follows
"The whole evidence on the part of the plaintiffs showed
that the bill of sale referred to was executed by Ingersoll and
delivered to plaintiffs in the office of Sanders & Cullen, in
Helena City, in Lewis and Clark County, MIv.T., about 9
o'clock -.
Px. on the 29th day of March, A.D. 1879, that the
goods, &c., were in possession of Stevenson, his clerk, at
Yestel, in the county of Deer Lodge, about twenty-three miles
distant; that after the writing mentioned was delivered to
plaintiffs, as aforesaid, it was expressly agreed that plaintiffs
should go out to Vestel and get possession of said property,
and that said Stevenson should turn said property over to
them, that said plaintiffs went at once and sent an agent with
said ' bill of sale ' to Vestel, and the evidence was sufficient to
go to the jury, and tended to show that he took possession of
said property about four o'clock on the morning of the 30th of

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

-March, being the following morning after the execution and
delivery of said writing, that he took with him said writing,
exhibited it to said Stevenson, then in possession as clerk of
said Ingersoll, and that he made no objection, but delivered
him (said agent) the property aforesaid, being the property in
controversy, and that the said Stevenson, the said clerk of
Ingersoll, after said agent of plaintiffs so had possession, remained with and assisted said agent until the levy of the
attachment by the sheriff on the 31st of said March, that the
plaintiffs and defendant Bristol during this time were creditors
of the said Ingersoll, for the purposes of this trial, was
mutually agreed and conceded as a fact on the trial, and so
entered accordingly as an admission."
It was thereupon stated that the plaintiffs then rested their
case and the defendants made a motion for a nonsuit on the
ground, among others, that there was "no sufficient case made
out so as to authorize the submission of the same to the jury,"
and more particularly that"The evidence shows that there was no immediate change
of possession accompanying the 'bill of sale,' or assignment of
said property, and that in the meantime, *between the execution thereof and the taking of such possession, if any was
taken, defendant Bristol was a creditor of said Ingersoll, and
his attachment duly levied on the thirty-first day of March,
A.D.

1879."

The record then proceeded as follows
"Which said motion was, after argument, duly submitted to
the court, who thereupon granted the said motion and directed
judgment to be entered in favor of the defendants and against
the plaintiffs. To which ruling of the court the plaintiffs then
and there duly excepted, and thereupon judgment was entered
in the case as follows, to wit
"audgment of NYonsuit.
(Name of Court. Title of Cause.)
"This action came regularly on for trial. The said parties
appeared by their respective counsel. A jury of twelve persons was duly empanelled and sworn to try said action. Wit-

KLEINSCH]IDT v. McANDREWS.
Opimon of the Court.

nesses on the part of plaintiffs were duly sworn and examined.
After the said plaintiffs had closed their case said cause was
heard upon defendants' motion for a nonsuit and duly submitted to the court for consideration and decision, and after consideration thereon the court sustains said motion and orders
judgment for the defendants accordingly Wherefore, by virtue of the law and by reason of the premises aforesaid, it is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the said defendants do have
and recover of and from said plaintiffs all the property in the
complaint, affidavit, and pleadings in this action described, or,
in case possession of said property cannot be had, the value
thereof in accordance with a certain stipulation filed herein
April 11, 1879, and introduced in evidence herein, and that
they recover their costs in this cause expended, taxed at the
sum of $63.50.
"Judgment entered March 22d, A. D. 1880.
"To the entry of which said judgment the plaintiffs then
and there excepted, and ask the court to sign this bill of exceptions, and that the same be made part of the record, which is
done accordingly this 22d day of March, A. D. 1880.
D. S. WADE, Judge."
"(Signed)
From this judgment there was an appeal by the plaintiffs to
the Supreme Court of the Territory, where it was affirmed.
To reverse the judgment of that court this writ of error was
prosecuted.
X,r X. F -o"ms for plaintiffs in error.
.X. Jose}h K Toole for defendants in error.
Toole was with him on the brief.

.21r Edwn TF

Mr. JUSTICE MATTHIEws delivered the opinion of the court.
After stating the case as above reported, he continued
The Supreme Court of Montana, in affirming the judgment
of the District Court, proceeded on the ground that the errors
assigned could not be considered for want of a sufficient bill of
exceptions. It was held by that court that, in the nature of
the case, an exception, within the meaning of ยง 279 of the Mon-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tana Code of Civil Procedure, could not be taken to the ruling
of the court sustaining the motion for a nonsuit and directing
judgment to be entered in favor of the defendants, because that
section of the Code defines an exception as being "an objection
taken at the trial to a decision upon a matter of law at any
time from the calling of the action for trial to the rendering of
the verdict or decision," whereas the exception here relied on
"could not have been taken until after the rendition of the decision of the court." But no exception to a ruling of the court
can be taken until after it is made, and it is plain, therefore,
that what is meant by the section of the Code referred to is,
that the exception must be to some decision or ruling of the
court, occurring before final judgment is rendered, and not that
the exception must be taken before the decision excepted to
has been made. But in this case, the granting of the motion
for a nonsuit, which is the ruling or decision excepted to, did
take place before the final judgment was in fact made and entered.
It was also held by the Supreme Court of Montana Territory
that the bill of exceptions in the record is limited to the exception
taken to the entry of the final judgment, and does not embrace
any of the matters stated in the record as occurring previously,
nor include the testimony nor agreed statement of facts on
which the motion for a nonsuit was based. But an inspection
of the record shows this to be a mistake. The whole transcript
from the beginning professes to be a bill of exceptions, and is
so styled in the caption, and the verification by the signature
of the judge cannot be restrained to the last sentence of the
connected history of the case which precedes. Taken together,
as it plainly should be, the ground of the exception is distinctly
stated, and everything necessary to entitle it to consideration
satisfactorily appears. The office of a bill of exceptions is evidently the same under the Montana Code as at common law,
and whatever brings upon the record, properly verified by the
attestation of the judge, the matters of fact occurring at the
trial, on which the point of law arises, which enters into the
ruling and decision of the court excepted to, answers sufficiently
the description of a proper bill of exceptions.

KLEINSOHM DT v. McANDREWS.
Opimon of the Court.

It is further objected here, however, in argument, that the
exception in the present case must be disregarded, because the
appeal from the District Court to the Supreme Court was not
taken in time under the provisions of ยง 408, Montana Statutes,
1879, which is as follows "An exception to the decision or
verdict, on the ground that it is not supported by the evidence,
cannot be reviewed on an appeal from the judgment unless the
appeal is taken within sixty days after the rendition of the
judgment." In the present case, the judgment wa8 rendered
March 22 and the appeal taken on July 13, 1880, more than
sixty days after the rendition of the judgment. But the exception taken and to be considered is not within the description of the class mentioned in this section of the statute. Here
there was no verdict or decision upon the facts in favor of
either party, which it is alleged was erroneous because not
supported by the evidence. The ruling excepted to was,
that upon the evidence submitted by the plaintiffs it was matter of law that they could not recover. The verdict or decision referred to in the above quoted section of the statute
relates exclusively to findings alleged to be erroneous for want
of sufficient support in the evidence. Here the matter of the
exception is purely matter of law
But on the motion for a nonsuit the court was also in error.
It should not have been granted. The ground on which the
District Court proceeded was, that the sale of the stock of goods
by Ingersoll to the plaintiffs was void under ยง 15 of a statute
of Montana relating to conveyances and contracts, Laws of
Montana, 1872, 394, which is as follows
" Every sale made by a vendor of goods and chattels in his
possession or under his control, and every assignment of goods
and chattels, unless the same be accompanied by the immediate delivery and be followed by an actual and continued
change of possession of the thing sold and assigned, shall be
conclusive evidence of fraud as against the creditors of the vendor or the person making such assignments or subsequent purchasers in good faith."
Upon the facts recited in the bill of exceptions, that the bill
of sale was executed and delivered at Helena on Saturday night,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

:March 29, 1S79, at nine o'clock, that the stock of goods was
at Vestel, twenty-three miles distant, that the plaintiffs took
possession of them the next morning, Sunday, at four o'clock,
and remained in possession until the goods were seized under
the levy of the attachment made by the defendants the next
morning, it appears that there was not a single hour in which
business could be, or was usually, transacted that intervened between the execution and delivery of the bill of sale and the transfer of the possession of the property This was certainly an immediate delivery of possession under the statute, and that possession continued until interrupted by the seizure by the defendants. Upon the facts in evidence, the title of the plaintiffs to
the goods in controversy was sufficiently established in law,
and if nothing else appeared it would have been the duty of
the court so to have instructed the jury
The judgment of the Supreme Co iurt of _Aontana Territory w
reversed, and the cause ?s remanded, with instructions to
take furtherproceedings theremn conformity with law.

THE CHEROKEE TRUST FUNDS.
EASTERN BAiND OF CHEROKEE INDIANS v.
UNITED STATES AND CHEROKEE NATION,
COMMONLY CALLED CHEROKEE NATION WEST.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 4, 5, 6, 1886.-Decided March 1, 18q6.

By treaties with the Cherokees the United States have recognized them as a
distinct political community, so far independent as to justify and require
negotiations with them in that character.
The Cherokees in North Carolina dissolved their connection with the Cherokee
Nation when they refused to accompany the body of it on its removal, and
have had no separate political organization since, though fostered and
encouraged, they have not been recognized by the United States as a nation,

