CASES ADJUDGED
D( THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

EXPRESS CASES:
ST. LOUIS, IRON MOUNTAIN & SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. SOUTHERN EXPRESS COMPANY
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

MEMPHIS & LITTLE ROCK RAILROAD COMPANY
v. SOUTHERN EXPRESS COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY
v. DINSMORE, PRESIDENT & SHAREHOLDER IN
ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY
APPEAL FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Argued together November 3,4, 5, 6, 1885.-Decided March 1, 1886.
Railroad companies are not required by usage, or by the common law, to transport the traffic of independent express compames over their lines in the
manner in which such traffic is usually carried and handled.
VOL. CxVrI-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
Railroad companies are not obliged either by the common law or by usage to
do more as express carriers than to provide the public at large with reasonable express accommodation and they need not in the absence of a statute
furnish to all independent express companies equal facilities for doing an
express business upon their passenger trains.

These cases were commenced by defendants in error as plaintiffs below to compel plaintiffs in error to give them respectively the express facilities on the several lines of railway which
they had previously enjoyed by contract, and of which they
had been dispossessed by notice given in accordance with the
terms of the contracts. Judgments below in favor of the express companies, from which the railroad companies appealed.
The causes were argued together. The case is stated in the
opinion of the court.
_Yr J.F -Dillon,Mlr 1?. J forgan, f B. . Brown and
Xr J 0 Broadhead for appellants. .r Sidney Bartlett
and .rA Wager Swayne were with them on the brief.
.r 0arence A. Seward, A1" George F Edmunds and _Mr
John A. Campbell for appellees. _.r F E. Whiifeld was with
them on the brief.
MR.CriF-JusTicE WArrE delivered the opinion of the court.

These suits present substantially the same questions and may
properly be considered together. They were each brought by
an express company against a railway company to restrain the
railway company from interfering with or disturbing in any
manner the facilities theretofore afforded the express company
for doing its business on the railway of the railway company
1. The St. louts, Iron .Mountmn and Southern Railway
Company.
This suit was begun May 21, 1880, and the business of the
express company is thus described in the bill
"Your orator, the Southern Express Company, is a corporation duly-created, organized, and now existing under the laws
of the State of Georgia, for the purpose, and with the powers

EXPRESS CASES.
Opimon of the Court.

necessary thereto, of receiving and forwarding upon railroads,
steam vessels, and other vehicles of rapid transportation, in a
safe and secure manner, and with the greatest practicable expedition, in the special care and custody of its own employ6s,, and
at destination personally delivering packages of money or currency, gold and silver bullion, bonds, bank notes, deeds, and
other valuable papers, jewels, silks, laces, and other articles of
great value, requiring for their security extraordinary care and
precaution, and also parcels of goods, wares, and merchandise,
requiring great dispatch or careful handling, and also fruit,
vegetables, fresh meats, fish, oysters, fish spawn, and other articles liable to decay or other injury from delay, and also live
animals requiring particular care and attention during transportation, and also for receiving and forwarding for collection
bills, notes, drafts, and accounts, and receiving and returning
payment thereof, and also for receiving and forwarding all
articles of trade and commerce, with the bills and charges of
the shipper thereto attached, to be collected of the consignee
on delivery of such articles, and returned to shipper, and m so
doing to afford the public, under a single contract, and on
assured responsibility, safe, reliable, and speedy transportation
from and to all points accessible only over two or more railroads, and generally to perform for the public all offices that,
by usage, are incident to the class of carriers now well known,
recognized and designated by the public, as ' express carriers.'"1
The St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern Railway Company is a railway corporation existing in the States of Missouri
and Arkansas, formed by the consolidation of the St. Louis and
Iron Mountain Railroad Company, the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, and the Cairo, Arkansas and Texas Railroad
Company Its railway extends from St. Louis, and from a
point on the Mississippi, opposite Cairo, through Missouri and
Arkansas, by way of Little Rock, to Texarkana, on the boundary between Arkansas and Texas, with certain branches.
On the 30th of April, 1872, and before the consolidation, the
St. Louis and Iron Mountain Company entered into a contract,
in writing, with the Adams Express Company, by which the
railroad company agreed to furnish the express company "one-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

half the baggage-car on each of its passenger trains on main
line and branches for carrying express freight," and also "the
use of a part of the baggage-car on accommodation trains
between St. Louis and Potosi to an extent not in excess of the
amount allowed m passenger trains." The cars were not to be
loaded with over seven thousand pounds at any one time, and
the railway company agreed that each of the cars should run
each way daily on the passenger trains. The company also
agreed that it would "prohibit its conductors, agents, and baggage-masters from transporting on its passenger trains, or from
accepting compensation for, any matter except extra baggage ;"
and further, that it would not "permit any person or company
to do an express business on its passenger trains on any better
terms, or for any less payment, than that given the Adams Express Company" In consideration of this service the express
company agreed to pay $125 a day, and a proportional increase
for every ten miles operated by it on an extension of the railroad, "for the transportation of its messengers with safes and
package chests, and an average amount of freight not exceeding ten thousand pounds per day," and an agreed rate for all
freights in excess of that amount. The express company also
agreed "to carry all money and other valuables for the said
railroad company to and from points on the line of its road free
of charge, and for such matter as may be sent to, or received
from, points off the line to charge the railroad company not
exceeding two-thirds the rate charged the public." It was also
stipulated that "the railroad company should be exempt and
indemnified by said express company against all loss or damage
to goods or money transported by said express company;" and
that settlements should "be made on or before the tenth day
of each month for the business of the preceding month." The
contract also contained this clause "This agreement to remain
m full force one year from the 1st day of May, 1872, and thereafter until thirty days' notice shall be given by either party to
the other of its desire to discontinue the same."
On the first of February, 1874, also before the consolidation,
the Southern Express Company entered into a contract in writing with the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, and the

EXPRESS CASES.
Opmion of the Court.

Cairo, Arkansas and Texas Railroad Company, by which the
railroad companies agreed to furnish the express company
"one-third of the room in the baggage-car on each passenger
train over the Cairo and Fulton road and the Cairo, Arkansas
and Texas road, for the carriage of express matter not to exceed six thousand pounds per day for each car." This contract
also contained provisions similar to that between the Adams and
St. Louis and Iron Mountain companies as to the regulation of
the duties of conductors, agents, and baggage-masters, and the
privileges of other persons for doing an express business on passenger trains. The Southern Company agreed to pay for the
transportation of its messengers, with safes and package chests,
and an average amount of express matter, not to exceed six
thousand pounds per car, $50 a day to the Cairo and Fulton
Company, and $10 a day to the Cairo, Arkansas and Texas
Company, and an agreed rate for all excess over six thousand
pounds. There were also other provisions as to the carriage of
money packages and valuables by the express company for the
railroad companies, and as to the details of the business, at the
end of which was the following "This contract to remain in
force until terminated on either party giving the other sixty
days' notice of its intention to .thus withdraw therefrom."
The consolidation took place May 16, 1874, and the two express companies continued their business upon the road under
their respective contracts until April 1, 1878, when the Adams
Company, with the assent and permission of the consolidated
railway company relinquished its business on the line to the
Southern Company, and that company thereafter conducted
the whole express business on the entire line under the two
contracts.
On the 26th of March, 1880, the railroad company having
come to the conclusion to change the mode of doing the express business over its line, gave the express company the stipulated notice for a termination of the existing contracts. All
efforts by the express company to secure facilities for a continuation of its business over the road having failed, this suit
was brought, and the prayer of the bill is:
"1. That during the pendency of this suit the defendant, its

OCTOBER TERI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

officers, agents, servants and employes may be restrained and
enjoined by a proper preliminary or provisional order or injunction, and until the further order of the court, from interfering
in any manner with or disturbing in any manner the enjoyment by the Southern Express Company of the facilities now
accorded to it by the said defendant, upon its lines of railway,
for the transaction of the business of the said Southern Express
Company, and of the express business of the public confided to
its care, and from interfering with any of the express matter or
messengers of the Southern Express Company, and from excluding or ejecting any of its express matter or messengers from the
depots, cars, and lines of the said defendant. as the same have
been heretofore and are now enjoyed and occupied by the said
Southern Express Company, and from refusing to receive and
transport, in like manner as the said defendant is now doing, over
its lines of railway, the express matter and messengers of the
said Southern Express Company, and from interfering with or
disturbing the business of the said Southern Express Company,
or its present relations, in reference thereto, with the said defendant in any way or manner whatsoever, and so long as the
said Southern Express Company shall be willing and ready, and
offer to pay, according to all legal rates therefor.
"2. That if any dispute or disagreement shall arise between
the parties hereto during the pendency of this suit, and before
a final decree herein upon the question of what is a lawful or
reasonable compensation to be paid by your orator to the defendant for the transportation of express matter, your orator
may be permitted to bring the same by way of interlocutory
application to this court for its decision, and that, pending the
inquiry thereon, the preliminary injunction heretofore prayed
may be continued to the same purport, tenor, and effect as if
the prayer for the same were here repeated.
"3. That the said defendant may be decreed by this court to
transport at all times the express matter, safes, and messengers
of the said Southern Express Company by the same trains and
with the same accommodations thereon, and in its depots and
stations as it may transport its own express matter or as it may
accord to itself, and that the said defendant may be decreed

EXPRESS CASES.
"Opimon of the Court.

so to transport the said express matter, safes, and messengers
of the said Southern Express Company, at and for the statutory
tolls and compensation in that behalf by law provided, and
that the said defendant may be decreed to make a reas nable rebate or reduction, to be fixed and determined by this
honorable court. from its charges to the said Southern Express
Company by reason of its performance of said accessorial service, as above specified, so long as the said Southern Express
Company shall offer to conform to all the reasonable rules and
regulations of the said defendant, and to pay all lawful charges
for the transaction of its said business.
"14. That a permanent injunction may issue herein to the
same purport and effect as is hereinbefore prayed in regard to
said provisional or preliminary injunction.
"5. That your orator may have such other relief or such
further or different relief herein, with its costs, as to the court
may seem meet."
The railway company answered the bill, and, among other
things, as follows
"38. Defendant further avers that it does- not claim and
never has claimed a right to exclude the transportation of the
express matter of the complainant from the lines of defendant's railway, and has always been willing and is now willing
to carry and transport any freight or express matter of complainant that it may offer to defendant. Defendant claims the
right to carry and- transport what is called express matter in
the spaces in its express cars selected by itself, and under the
supervision, care, and control of its own employes, and has refused and does refuse to complainant the right to have allotted
to itself any particular space in defendant's express cars for its
exclusive use, or to permit its messengers to ride in the express
cars and to take charge of complainant's express freight."
2. The .Xfemph s and -Little Rock Railroad Company.
This suit was begun by the same express company on the
11th of June, 1880. The Memphis and Little Rock Railroad
Company is a railroad corporation formed by the reoganization
of a former corporaton.of the same name, owning and operat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

mg a railroad in Arkansas, between Little Rock and a point on
the Mississippi River opposite Memphis. On the 26th of May,
1871, before the reorganization, and while the railroad of the
present company was owned and operated by the original corporation, that corporation entered into a written contract with
the Southern Express Company, by which the railroad company
was to furnish the express company with one end of a baggagecar for express service when convenient, and, if not, a box car.
For this the express company was to pay for each hundred
pounds of freight carried at certain agreed rates, and to assume
all risks of the transportation of express matter, except such
damage as arose from the gross neglect or carelessness of the
railroad company This agreement also contained other stipulations for the regulation of the conduct of the parties under
it, and at the end was this "This agreement takes effect June
1, 1871, and may be terninated by either party on thirty days'
notice." After the reorganization no new contract was made,
but the express company continued business oi the road under
the old contract, without objection by the reorganized company,
until June 2, 1880, when it was notified that, as the railroad
company had "determined to transport all express matter and
transact all express business on its own account, -and through
and by its own officers and agents on and after the fourteenth
of June," all contracts or arrangements existing between the
companies would terminate on that day The notice concluded
as follows "We shall be glad to receive, transport, and deliver
any express matter you or your company may think proper to
entrust to us at reasonable rates and in conformity to law"
This suit was brought in consequence of that notice, and the
prayer of the bill is substantially like that against the St. Lois,
Iron Mountain and Southern Company
This company also answered the bill, and, among other
things, is the following
"It says that the fact is that when it purchased the road it
now operates, May 1, 187, it found complainant on the road
with all its investments made and its agencies and business
routes established, and that respondent tacitly permitted complainant to continue its business over its road. But it is now

EXPRESS CASES.
Opimon of the Court.

able, ready and willing to do the express carrying business over
its road for itself, and for the benefit of its own stockholders,
and desiring to take the business into its own hands it gave
complainant the notice mentioned and copied in the bill. It
repeats here what it said in that notice, that it is ready and
willing to carry for complainant in the same manner and upon
the same terms that it carries for all other shippers. It submits that this is the extent of its duty toward complainant, and
no injunction of this court is necessary to compel it to discharge
that duty It submits that complainant has no privilege or
right which is not common to all shippers, and it repeats that
what it does for others it will freely and in its proper order do
for complainant. None of the privileges claimed by complainant are accorded by respondent to any other shipper, and no
other even asks such privileges. Respondent denies that it
must give complainant the same privileges or facilities that it
enjoys itself, for that would be to surrender to complainant a
.part of its corporate rights and privileges, and also to surrender
to complainant the control of a part of its cars and business. All
that it is required to do for complainant is to receive and carry
for it m the same manner and at the same rates it does for
others. In the conduct of its business, express and all other, it
receives freights from the shippers, giving therefor a receipt or
bill of lading, takes the freight into its own possession, loads
it itself into its cars, carries it in its own custody, and at the
place of destination delivers it to the consignee. All this it is
willing, has offered, and again offers, to do for complainant."
3. The Xissourz, Xansas and Texas Railway Company.
This suit was brought on the 28th of December, 1880, by or
on behalf of the Adams Express Company, a joint stock association of the State of New York, organized in 1854. The Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway Company is a Kansas railroad corporation, oWning and.controlling, lines of railroad from Junction
City, Kansas, and -Sedalia, Missouri, to Parsons, Kansas, thence
southerly to a crossing of the Arkansas River, and from
Holden, Missouri, on the Missouri Pacific Railroad, westerly to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opmion of the Court.

Paoli, on the Missouri River, Fort Scott and Gulf Railroad, in
all a length of say four hundred and seventy-three miles.
The bill in this case contains, among others, the following
averments
"X. After the formation of the Adams Express Company
various other express companies were formed for the conduct
of the same general business, to be operated in like manner
over the public thoroughfares of the country As the principal railway lines known as 'Trunk Lines' and running in a
general direction from east to west, ran in courses generally
parallel, the principal express companies existing at the early
date aforesaid, namely, the 'Adams,' the 'American,' and the
' United States,' agreed among themselves that they would
reach the commercial centres of the country by different railway and steamboat routes, and that they would divide the
north and south express business in a manner best calculated
for the welfare thereof, and for the best service of the public.
"This understanding was generally effectuated, but in various
instances two express companies have, at the same tune, and
with permission of the railway company, occupied, for a greater
or less distance, the same line of railway and such occupation
has not been found incompatible with the harmonious working
of such two express companies, and has resulted in a larger income to the railway company than it would have received had
its line been occupied but by one express company only, and
has also afforded the public the opportunity, both upon short
and long routes, for the most efficient service and for the competition to which it is lawfully entitled.
"XI. Under the mutual understanding aforesaid the Adams
Express Company, as soon as the demands of the public warranted the expenditure, extended its business westward to the
cities of Wheeling, Columbus, Cincinnati, Indianapolis, Louisville, and St. Louis, by means of the facilities afforded by the
Pittsburg, Cincinnati, and St. Louis Railroad and other companies, and thereby made the routes of the said Adams Express
Company continuous from Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
and Pittsburg to the cities last aforesaid, and such continuous
routes are now operated by it.

EXPRESS CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

"XII. The said Adams Express Company, under the arrangements and understandings aforesaid, extended its business in a
southerly direction, and, as the word ' express ' imports, always
by the shortest line of communication to all the principal cities
in the South-namely, Richmond, Charleston, Savannah, Mobile, Montgomery, New Orleans, Memphis, and other placesand in so doing was always afforded by those occupying the
public office of a common carrier all necessary facilities therefor,
and which facilities were by said carriers increased to the said
Adams Express Company in proportion with the increase of
the demands of the public therefor.
"XIII. The Adams Express Company has always, in the
conduct of its business, paid, and now pays to the common carriers whom it employs a just and reasonable compensation, satisfactory to them, for the facilities afforded, and has itself always charged the public only a just and reasonable compensation for the express services performed for it.
"1XIV In the conduct of its business, as aforesaid, the Adams Express Company has always represented, and now represents, that portion of the public which desires to avail itself, in
the transmission of its property and valuables, of the pecuniary
responsibility of the express company, and of the safeguards
and checks which it has originated, provided, and enforced for
the safe custody of the property committed to its care.
"1X-V The Adams Express Company conducted its business,
as aforesaid, until the commencement of hostilities, in 1861,when,
by reason of the derangements of commercial intercourse then
ensuing, and for other controlling reasons of a public character
then generally known, it was obliged to discontinue its organization and business in the Southern States, and it thereupon withdrow from the same, and sold so much of its good-will and its
equipment as then there existed to the Southern Express Company, a corporation created, as this plaintiff is informed and believes, under and pursuant to the laws of the State of Georgia,
and since then the express business in the principal Southern
States has been, and is now, conducted by the said Southern Express Company, under said charter, by which it is expressly authorized to conduct the same, and which said charter gives a leg-

OCTOBER TERI, 1885.
Opmion of the Court.

islative description of the kind and character of business to be
done by said company as an express company, and to a copy
of which the plaintiff craves leave to refer.
"XVI. After the cessation of the hostilities aforesaid an arrangement was made, and which is now in force, between the
said Adams Express Company and the said Southern Express
Company, for the general regulation of the transportation of
property coming from the territory of the one into the territory
of the other, and by which property received by the Adams
Express Company, destined for points within the territory of
the Southern, and property received within the territory of the
Southern, destined to points within the territory of the-Adams
Express Company, or reached by its connections, is interchanged at certain specified points, and upon a basis of charge
proportioned to the distance traversed in the territory of either.
In case of such interchange of express matter within such territory the express company originally receiving the same remains liable to the public for the value thereof, until delivered
to the consignee.
"XVIL Since the said understanding and arrangement, the
Adams Express Company has made such interchanges with the
said Southern Express Company, and now makes the same, at
Richmond, Lynchburg, and Danville, Virginia, Chattanooga,
Tennessee, Cairo, Illinois, and Paducah, Kentucky, and has
not, itself, since then either delivered or received express matter directly south of such points, but the territory so directly
south thereof has been operated by the said Southern Express
Company alone."
On the 23d of lNovember, 1871, the Adams Express Company and the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Company entered
into the following contract
"This agreement, made this twenty-third day of 1ovember,
A.D. 1871, between Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company, by R. S. Stevens, its general manager, party of the first
part, and the Adams Express Company, by
party of the second part, witnesseth
"1. The Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company will

EXPRESS CASES.
Opimon of the Court.

furnish for the use of the Adams Express Company one car
each way on its line from Sedalia, Missouri, vza Parsons, Kansas, to Junction City, Kansas, to be hauled on a passenger train
each day that a passenger train is to run over the line. The
car to be used exclusively by the Adams Express Company, but
not to carry at any one time an excess of seven tons of freight,
the charges by the express company to its patrons to be not
less than one and one-half first-class rates of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway Company at the time, as per its freight
tariff. The railway company will also furnish from Parsons
south to the Arkansas River the necessary accommodations in
its baggage-car, and also similar accommodations in a baggagecar on the Holden line on one train each way The express
car, as well as all express matter carried over the road in any
baggage or other car, to be m charge of one agent or messenger of the express company on each train, who is to be carried
free.
"2. All express matter from points on or north of the Missouri Pacific Railroad, and all that comes from any point beyond
or east of St. Louis, v that city, for points on the line of the
Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway or beyond, is to be brought
on the said line at Sedalia, and no business for this xoad is to be
done, or freight of any kind to be received or delivered, at Vinita, except such as originated atf or is destined to points on the
Atlantic and Pacific Railroad south and west from Franklin,
Missouri.
"3. As part compensation to the railway company for the
privileges furnished by it, as herein provided, the express company will pay to the railway company monthly one hundred
dollars per day for each and every day that trains are run over
the railway or any part thereof.
"14. As part consideration, it is also agreed that the express
company shall carry the money and valuable packages belonging to the railway company over the line of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway free of charge, and for all matter going
to or coming from points beyond the line of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway, the express company will charge not
exceeding two-thirds of its regular rate-for such business. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

superintendents and agents for said express company, whenever it is necessary to supervise the business, to have the privilege of travelling over the line of said road free, passes for such
free passage to be furnished on application of the superintendent of the express company for this division.
"5. The railway company agree, further, that they will not
carry freight or packages for pay m their baggage-cars on passenger trains, nor allow their conductors or baggage-masters or
other employes to do so, during the existence of this agreement,
nor will they allow any other company, firm, or person the
privilege of carrying freight on their passenger trains at any
less rate of payment per day, or any greater weight in a car,
or upon any better terms in any way than is granted to said
express company under this agreement.,
"6. It is understood that as the line of the Missouri, Kansas
and Texas Railway is extended south from the Arkansas River,
similar accommodations will be furnished for an express business, as herein above provided, at a reasonably increased cost,
to be paid by the express company, as shall hereafter be agreed
upon.
"7. This agreement to take effect on the first day of December, A.D. 1871, and continue in force for one year thereafter,
and until thirty days' notice shall have been given to the other
by the party desiring to terminate same."
Under this contract the Adams Company carried on its business over the railroad line, without objection from the railroad
company, until December 1, 1880, when the railroad company
notified the express company that it would be expected to
retire from the operation of its business on that road January
1, 1881, as on and after that date the business would be done
by or for the railroad company This suit was brought after
the service of that notice, and the prayer of the bill is substantially like that in the other cases.
The railroad company at first answered the bill, and testimony was taken, but before a final hearing the answer was
withdrawn and a demurrer substituted.
In each of the cases a preliminary injunction was granted,
and from that time until now the express companies have occu-

EXPRESS CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

pied the roads the same as before the suits, but in connection
with the railroad companies, as carriers of express matter, or
with some other express company to which the privilege of
doing an express business over the line had been granted by
the railroad company
A large amount of testimony was taken, and on the final
hearmg a decree was entered in each of the cases, one of which
is as follows
"I. That the express business, as fully described and shown
in the record, is a branch of the carrying trade that has by the
necessities of commerce and the usages of those engaged in
transportation become known and recognized so as to require
the court to take notice of the same as distinct from the ordinary transportation of the large mass of freight usually carried
on steamboats and railroads.
"II. That it has become the law and usage, and is one of the
necessities of the express business, that the property confided
to an express company for transportation should be kept while
m transit in the immediate charge of the messenger or agent
of such express company
"IIH. That to refuse permission to such messengers or agents
to accompany such property on the steamboats or railroads on
which it is to be carried, and to deny to them the right to the
custody of the property while so carried, would be destructive
of the express business and of the rights which the public have
to the use of such steamboats and railroads for the transportation of such property so under the control of such messengers
or agents.
"IV That the defendant, its officers, agents, and servants,
have no right to open or inspect any of the packages or express
matter which may be offered to it for transportation by the
plaintiff's company, or to demand a knowledge of the contents
thereof, nor to refuse transportation thereof unless such inspection be granted or such knowledge be afforded.
"V That it is the duty of the defendant to carry the express
matter of the plaintiff's company and the messengers or agents
in charge thereof at a just and reasonable rate of compensation, and that such rate of compensation is to be found and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinou of the Court.

established as a unit, and is to include as well the transportation of such messengers or agents as of the express matter in
their custody and under their control.
"VL That on and subsequent to the 1st day of May, 1811,
the said defendant afforded to the said plaintiff all the facilities
needed by it for the conduct of its express business over the
defendant's lines, and such as are specifically in the bill herein
set forth, that thereafter the defendant notified the plaintiff
that such facilities would be withdrawn, and that it was the
intention and purpose of the defendant to exclude the plaintiff's company from its lines on and after the 21st day of June,
1880, that such intention and purpose were restrained by the
preliminary injunction order of the court, which said injunction order was afterwards modified, as appears in the record.
"VII. That it is the duty of the defendant to afford to the
plaintiff all express facilities, and to the same extent and upon
the same trains that said defendant may accord to itself or to
any other company or corporation engaged fn the conduct of
an express business on the defendant's lines, and to afford the
same facilities to the plaintiff on all its passenger trains.
"VIII. That the plaintiff keep and render monthly a true
account of the services performed for it by defendant, and pay
therefor at the rate hereinafter specified, on or before the
of each month, after the date hereof, for the business of the
month preceding, and that the defendant has no right to require prepayment for said express facilities, or payment therefor at the end of every train, or in any other manner than as
is herein provided, and that plaintiff execute and deliver to
the defendant a bond in the sum of twenty-five thousand dollars, conditioned well and faithfully to make such payments
as are herein provided, and with surety to be approved by a
judge of the court.
"IX That it is and was the duty of said defendant to
afford, and to have afforded, such facilities to the plaintiff as
herein specified, for a just and reasonable compensation.
"X. Whereas it is alleged by complainant that since the
commencement of this suit and the service of the preliminary
order of injunction herein, the defendant has, in violation of

EXPRESS CASES.
Opimon of the Court.

said injunction and of the rights of complainant, made unjust discriminations against complainant,and has charged complainant
unjust and unreasonable rates for carrying express matter,
therefore, it is ordered that complainant have leave hereafter
to apply for an investigation of these and similar allegations,
and for such order with respect thereto as the facts, when ascertained, may justify, and for the appointment of a master to
take proof and report thereon.
"XI. That the defendant, its officers, agents, servants,. and
employes, and all persons acting under their authority, be, and
they hereby are, permanently and perpetually enjoined and
restrained from interfering with or disturbing in any manner
the enjoyment by the plaintiff of the facilities provided for in
this decree, to be accorded to it by the said defendant upon its
lines.of railway, or such as have been heretofore accorded to it
for the transaction of the business of the plaintiff, and of the
express business of the public confided to its care, and from
interfering with any of the express matter or messengers of the
plaintiff, and from excluding or ejecting any of its express
matter or messengers from the depots, trains, cars, or lines of
the said defendant, as the same are by this decree directed to
be permitted to be enjoyed and occupied by the said plaintiff,
and from refusing to receive and transport in like manner as
the said defendant is now transporting, or as it may hereafter
transport, for itself or for any other express company, over its
lines of railway, the express matter and messengers of the said
plaintiff, and from interfering with or disturbing the business
of the said plaintiff in any way or manner whatsoever, the said
plaintiff paying for the services performed for it by the defendant monthly, as herein prescribed, at a rate not exceeding fifty
per centum more than its prescribed rates for the transportation of ordinary freight, and not exceeding the rate at which it
may itself transport express matter on its own account, or for
any other express or other corporation or for private individuals,
reserving to either party the right at any time hereafter to apply to this court according to the rules in equity proceedings
for a modification of this decree as to the measure of compensation herein prescribed.
VOL.

CXVIn-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

"XII. It is further ordered, adjudged, and decreed that defendant pay the costs to be taxed herein, and that an execution
or a fee bill issue therefor. And the said defendant enters
herein its prayer for appeal, which prayer is granted."
The decrees in the other cases differ from this only in matters
of detail.
The cases are now here for review on these appeals.
The evidence shows that the express business was first organized in the United States about the year 1839. The case of
Nfew Jersey Steam Navgation Company v Alercant' Bank, 6

How 344, grew out of t loss by the burning of the steamboat
Lexington on Long Island Sound i January, 1840, of $18,000
in gold and silver coin, while in charge of Win. F Harnden, an
express carrier, for transportation from New York to Boston.
In the report of this case is found a copy of one of the earliest
advertisements of the express business as published in two of
the Boston newspapers in July, 1839. It is as follows
"Boston and New York Express Package Car.-lNotice to
Merchants, Brokers, Booksellers, and all Business Men.
"Win. F Harnden, having made arrangements with the
New York and Boston Transportation and Stonington and
Providence Railroad Companies, will run a car through from
Boston to New York and vwe versa, via Stonington, with the
mail train daily, for the purpose of transporting specie, small
packages of goods, and bundles of all kinds. Packages sent
by this line will be delivered on the following mormng, at any
part of the city, free of charge. A responsible agent will accompany the car, who will attend to purchasing goods, collectiug drafts, notes and bills, and will transact any other business
that may be intrusted to him.
"Packages for Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, New
Haven, Hartford, Albany and Troy will be forwarded immediately on arrival in New York.
"1N. B.--Wm. F Haruden is alone responsible for any loss
or injury of any articles or property committed to his care,
nor is any risk assumed by, or can any be attached to, the
Boston and New York Transportation Company, in whose

EXPRESS CASES.
Opinion of the Court.

steamers his crates are to be transported, in respect to it or its
contents at any time."
The report also contains a copy of the contract between
Harnden and the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company, the
owner of the Lexington, dated the 1st of August, 1839, for the
facilities to be afforded Harnden for his business on the
steamers of that company This contract was similar to one
made a short time before with the Boston and New York
Transportation Company, a company which became merged in
the New Jersey Steam Navigation Company August 1, 1839,
and it provided that Harnden, in consideration of $250 per
month, was to have the privilege of transporting m the steamers
of the company between New York and Providence, via Newport and Stonington, not to exceed once each day from New
York and from Providence, "one wooden crate of the dimensions of five feet by five feet in width and height, and six feet in
length, (contents unknown)." It was also stipulated and agreed
that "the said crate, with its contents, is to 'be at all times exclusively at the risk of the said William F Harnden, and the
said New Jersey Steam Navigation Company will not, in any
event, be responsible either to him or his employers for the loss
of any goods, wares, merchandise, notes, bills, evidences of debt,
or property of any and every description, to be conveyed or
transported by him in said crate, or otherw ise, in any manner,
in the boats of the said company" It was also further provided
that Harnden should attach to all his advertisements for
business, and to his bills of lading, notices in the form of that
at the foot of his advertisement, a copy of which is given above,
and that he should not violate any of the provisions of the
post office laws, or interfere with the Navigation Company in
its transportation of letters or papers, or carry powder, matches,
or other combustible materials of any kind calculated to endanger the safety of the boats or the .property or persons on
board. At the end was this clause "And that this contract
may be at any time terminated by the New Jersey Steam
Navigation Company, or by the said Harnden, upon one
month's notice given in writing."

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

Such was the beginning of the express business which now
has grown to an enormous size, and is carried on all over
the United States and in Canada, and has been extended
to Europe and the West Indies. It has become a public
necessity, and ranks in importance with the mails and with
the telegraph. It employs for the purposes of transportation
all the important railroads in the United States, and a new
road is rarely opened to the public without being equipped in
some form with express facilities. It isused in almost every
conceivable way, and, for almost every conceivable purpose,
by the people and by the government. All have become accustomed to it, and it cannot be taken away without breaking
up many of the long settled habits of business, and interfering
materially with the conveniences of social life.
In this connection it is to be kept in mind that neither of
the railroad companies involved in these suits is attempting to
deprive the general public of the advantages of an express business over its road. The controversy, in each case is not with
the public, but with a single express company And the real
question is not whether the railroad companies are authorized
by law to do an express business themselves, nor whether they
must carry express matter for the public on their passenger
trains, in the immediate charge of some person specially appointed for that purpose, nor whether they shall carry express
freights for express companies as they carry like freights for
the general public, but whether it is their duty to furnish the
Adams Company or the Southern Company facilities for doing
an express business upon their roads the same in all.respects as
those they provide for themselves or afford to any other express company
When the business began railroads were in their infancy
They were few in number, and for comparatively short distances. There has never been a time, however, since the express business was started that it has not been encouraged by
the railroad companies, and it is no doubt true, as alleged in
each of the bills filed in these cases, that" no railroad company
in the United States
has ever refused to transport
express matter for the public, upon the application of some ex-

EXPRESS CASES.
Opinon of the Court.

press company, of some form of legal constitution. Every railway company
has recognized the right of the publie to demand transportation by the railway facilities which the
public has permitted to be created, of that class of matter which
is known as express matter." Express companies have undoubtedly invested their capital and built up their business in
the hope and expectation of securing and keeping for themselves such railway facilities as they needed, and railroad companies have likewise relied upon the express business as one of
their important sources of income.
But it is neither averred in the bills, nor shown by the testimony, that any railroad company in the United States has ever
held itself out as a common carrier of express companies, that
is to say, as a common carrier of common carriers. On the
contrary it has been shown, and in fact it was conceded upon
the argument, that, down to the time of bringing these suits,
no railroad company had taken an express company on its road
for business except under some special contract, verbal or written, and generally written, m which the rights and the duties
of the respective parties were carefully fixed and defined.
These contracts, as is seen by those in these records, vary necessarily in their details, according to the varying circumstances
of each particular case, and according to the judgment and discretion of the parties immediately concerned. It also appears
that, with very few exceptions, only one express company has
been allowed by a railroad company to do business on its road
at the same time. In some of the States, statutes have been
passed which, either in express terms or by judical interpretation, require railroad companies to furnish equal facilities to all
express companies, Gen. Laws N. I., 1878, ch. 163, ยง 2, Rev
Stat. Maine, 1883, 494, ch. 51, ยง 134, but these are of comparative recent origin, and thus far seem not to have been generally adopted.
In Missouri, by the Constitution, railways are "declared. public highways, and railroad companies common carriers." The
general assembly is also required "to pass laws to correct
abuses and prevent unjust discrimination and extortion in rates
of freight and passenger tariffs on the different railroads in

OCTOBER TERI, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

this State," and "to pass laws establishing reasonable maximum rates of charges for the transportation of passengers
and freight on said railroads, and enforce all such laws by adequate penalties." Art. XII., sec. 14. And by section 23 it is
provided that "no discrimination in charges or facilities in
transportation shall be made between transportation companies
and individuals, or in favor of either, by abatement, drawback,
or otherwise, and no railroad company, or any lessee, manager, or employe thereof shall make any preference in furmshlug cars or motive power." We have not been referred to any
statute of the State which does more than reproduce these constitutional provisions in substantially the same general language.
Art. XVII., sec. 1, of the Constitution of Arkansas provides
that "all railroads, canals and turnpikes shall be public highways, and all railroad and canal companies shall be common
carriers." Sections 3, 5 and 6 of the same article are as follows
"S1c. 3. All individuals, associations and corporations shall
have equal rights to have persons and property transported
over railroads, canals and turnpikes, and no undue or unreasonable discrimniation shall be made in charges for, or in facilities
for transportation of freight or passengers within the State, or
coming from or going to any other State."
"Sxc. 5. No president, director, officer, agent, or employe of
any railroad or canal company shall be interested, directly or
indirectly, in the furnishing of material or supplies to such company, or m the business of a common carrier of freight or passengers over the works owned, leased, controlled, or worked by
such company, nor in any arrangement which shall afford more
advantageous terms or greater facilities than are offered or accorded to the public.
"SFc. 6. No discrimination in charge or facilities for transportation shall be made between transportation companies and
individuals, nor in favor of either, by abatement, drawback, or
otherwise, and no railroad or canal company, or any lessee,
manager, or employe thereof, shall make any preference in furnishing cars or motive power."

EXPRESS CASES.
Opimon of the Court.

The legislation of this State has not, so far as we have been
advised, extended the -operation of these constitutional provisions in a way to affect the questions now to be decided.
In Kansas the following statute is in force
"SxFc. 55. Every railway corporation in this State which now
is, or may hereafter be, engaged in the transportation of persons or property, shall give public notice of the regular time of
starting and running its cars, and shall furnish sufficient accommodations for the transportation of all such passengers, baggage, mails, and express freight as shall, within a reasonable
time previous thereto, be offered for transportation at the place
of starting, at the junction of other roads, and at the several
stopping-places, and they are hereby required to stop all trains
carrying passengers at the junction or intersection of other railways a sufficient length of time to allow the transfer of passengers, personal baggage, mails, and express freight from the
trains or railways so connecting or intersecting, or they may
mutually arrange for the transportation of such persons and
property over both roads without change of cars, and they
shall be compelled to receive all passengers and freight from
such connecting and intersecting roads whenever the same
shall be delivered to them." Comp. Laws Kansas, 1879, 225,
ch. 23.
The reason is obvious why special contracts in reference to
this business are necessary The transportation required is of
a kind which must, if possible, be had for the most part on passenger trains. It requires not only speed, but reasonable certainty as to the quantity that will be carried at any one time.
As the things carried are to be kept in the personal custody of;
the messenger or other employe of the express company, it is
important that a certain amount of car space should be specially
set apart for the business, and that this should, as far as practicable, be put in the exclusive possession of the express man in
charge. As the business to be'done is "express," it implies ac-cess to the train for loading at the latest, and for unloading at
the earliest, convenient moment. All this is entirely inconsistent with the idea of an express business on passenger trams
free to all express carriers. Railroad companies are by law

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

carriers of both persons and property Passenger trains have
from.the beginning been provided for the transportation primarily of passengers and their baggage. This must be done
with reasonable promptness and with reasonable comfort to
the passenger. The express business on passenger trains is in
a degree subordinate to the passenger business, and it is consequently the duty of a railroad company in arranging for the
express to see that there is as little interference as possible with
the wants of passengers. This implies a special understanding
and agreement as to the amount of car space that will be afforded, and the conditions on which it is to be occupied, the
particular trains that can be used, the places at which they
shall stop, the price to be paid, and all the varying details of a
business which is to be adjusted between two public servants, so
that each can perform in the best manner its own particular
duties. All this must necessarily be a matter of bargain, and it
by no means follows that, because a railroad company can
serve one express company in one way, it can as well serve
another company in the same way, and still perform its other
obligations to the public in a satisfactory manner. The car
space that can be given to the express business on a passenger
train is, to a certain extent, limited, and, as has been seen, that
which is allotted to a particular carrier must be, in a measure,
under his exclusive control. No express company can do a
successful business unless it is at all times reasonably sure of the
means it requires for transportation. On important lines one
company will at times fill all the space the railroad company
can well allow for the business. If this space had to be divided
among several companies, there might be occasions when the
public would be put to inconvenience by delays which could
otherwise be avoided. So long as the public are served to their
reasonable satisfaction, it is a matter of no importance who
serves them. The railroad company performs its whole duty
to the public at large and to each individual when it affords the
public all reasonable express accommodations. If this is done
the railroad company owes no duty to the public as to the particular agencies it shall select for that purpose. The public
require the carriage, but the company may choose its own ap-

EXPRESS CASES.
Opunon of the Court.

propriate means of carriage, always provided they are such as
to insure reasonable promptness and security.
The inconvenience that would come from allowing more
than one express company on a railroad at the same time was
apparently so well understood both by the express companies
and the railroad companies that the three principal express
companies, the Adams, the American, and the United States,
almost immediately on their organization, now more than
thirty years ago, by agreement divided the territory in the
United States traversed by railroads among themselves, and
since that time each has confined its own operations to the
particular roads which, under this division, have been set apart
for its special use. No one of these companies has ever interfered with the other, and each has worked its allotted territory, always extending its lines in the agreed directions as circumstances would permit. At the beginning of the late civil
war the Adams Company gave up its territory in the Southern
States to the Southern Company, and since then the Adams
and the Southern have occupied, under arrangements between
themselves, that part of the ground originally assigned to the
Adams alone. In this way these three or four important and
influential companies were able substantially to control, from
185- until about the time of the bringing of these suits, all the
railway express business in the United States, except upon the
Pacific roads and in certain comparatively limited localities.
In fact, as is stated in the argument for the express companies,
the Adams was occupying when these suits were brought, one
hundred and fifty-five railroads, with.a mileage of 21,216 miles,
the American two hundred roads, with a mileage of 28,000
miles, and the Southern ninety-five roads, with a mileage of
10,000 miles. Through their business arrangements with each
other, and with other connecting lines, they have been able for
a long time to receive and contract for the delivery of any
package committed to their charge at almost any place of importance m the United States and in Canada, and even at some
places in Europe and the West Indies. They have invested
millions of dollars in their business, and have secured public
confidence to such a degree that they are trusted unhesitat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

ingly by all who need their services. The good will of their
business is of very great value if they can keep their present
facilities for transportation. The longer their lines and the
more favorable their connections, the greater will be their own
profits, and the better their means of serving the public. In
making their investments and in extending their business, they
have undoubtedly relied on securing and keeping favorable
railroad transportation, and in this they were encouraged by
the apparent willingness of railroad companies to accommodate them, but the fact still remains that they have never
been allowed to do business on any road except under a special
contract, and that as a rule only one express company has been
admitted on a road at the same tne.
The territory traversed by the railroads involved in the
present suits is part of that allotted in the division between
the express compames to the Adams and Southern companies,
and in due time after the roads were built these companies
contracted with the railroad companies for the privileges of an
express business. The contracts were all in writing, in which
the rights of the respective parties were clearly defined, and
there is now no dispute about what they were. Each contract
contained a provision for its termination by either party on
notice. That notice has been given in all the cases by the railroad companies, and the express companies now sue for relief.
Clearly this cannot be afforded by keeping the contracts in
force, for both parties have agreed that they may be terminated at any time by either party on notice, nor by making
new contracts, because that is not within the scope of judicial
power.
The exact question, then, is whether these express companies
can now demand as a right what they have heretofore had
only as by permission. That depends, as is conceded, on
whether all railroad companies are now by law charged with
the duty of carrying all express companies in the way that
express carriers when taken are usually carried, just as they
are with the duty of carrying all passengers and freights when
offered in the way that passengers and freight are carried.
The contracts which these companies once had are now out of

EXPRESS CASES,

27

Opmion of the Court.

the way, and the companies at this time possess no other rights
than such as belong to any other company or person wishing
to do an express business upon these roads. If they are entitled
to the relief they ask it is because it is the duty of the railroad
companies to furnish express facilities to all alike who demand
them.
The constitutions and the laws of the States in which the
roads are situated place the companies that own and operate
them on the footing of common carriers, but there is nothing
which in positive terms requires a railroad company to carry
all express companies in the way that under some circumstances
they may be able without inconvenience to carry one company
In Kansas, the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Company must
furnish sufficient accommodations" for the transportation of all
such express freight as may be offered, and in each of the
States of -Missouri, Arkansas and Kansas railroad companies
are probably prohibited from making unreasonable discrimnations in their business as carriers, but this is all.
Such being the case, the right of the express compames to a
decree depends upon their showing the existence of a usage,
having the force of law in the express business, which requires
railroad companies to carry all express companies on their passenger trains as express carriers are usually carried. It is not
enough to establish a usage to carry some express company, or
to furnish the public in some way with the advantages of an
express business over the road. The question is not whether
these railroad companies must furnish the general public with
reasonable express facilities, but whether they must carry these
particular express carriers for the purpose of enabling them to
do an express business over the lines.
In all these voluminous records there is not a syllable of evidence to show a usage for the carriage of express companies on
the passenger trains of railroads unless specially contracted for.
While it has uniformly been the habit of railroad companies to
arrange, at the earliest practicable moment, to take one express
company on some or all of their passenger trains, or to provide
some other way of doing an express business on their lines, it
has never been the practice to grant such a privilege to more.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

than one company at the same time, unless a statute or some
special circumstances made it necessary or desirable. The express compames that bring these suits are certainly in no situation to claim a usage in their favor on these particular roads,
because their entry was originally under special contracts,
and no other companies have ever been admitted except by
agreement. By the terms of their contracts they agreed that
all their contract rights on the roads should be terminated at
the will of the railroad company They were willing to begin
and to expand their business upon this understanding, and with
this uncertainty as to the duration of their privileges. The
stoppage of their facilities was one of the risks they assumed
when they accepted their contracts, and made their investments
under them. If the general public were complaining because
the railroad companies refused to carry express matter themselves on their passenger trains, or to allow it to be carried by
others, different questions would be presented. As it is, we
have only to decide whether these particular express companies
must be carried notwithstanding the termination of their special
contract rights.
The difficulty in the cases is apparent from-the form of the
decrees. As express companies had always been carried by
railroad companies under special contracts, which established
the duty of the railroad company upon the one side, and fixed
the liability of the express company on the other, the court. in
decreeing the carriage, was substantially compelled to make for
the parties such a contract for the business as in its opinion
they ought to have made for themselves. Having found that
the railroad company should furnish the express company with
facilities for business, it had to define what those facilities must
be, and it did so by declaring that they should be furnished to
the same extent and upon the same trains that the company accorded to itself or to any other company engaged
m conducting an express business on its line. It then prescribed the time and manner of making the payment for the
facilities and how the payment should be secured, as well as
how it should be measured. Thus, by the decrees, these railroad companies are compelled to carry these express companies

EXPRESS CASES.
Dissenting Opinion

Miller, J.

at these rates, and on these terms, so long as they ask to be
carried, no matter what other express co'mpames pay for the
same facilities or what such facilities may, for the time being,
be reasonably worth, unless the court sees fit, under the power
reserved for that purpose, on the application of either of the
parties, to change the measure of compensation. In this way
as it seems to us, "the court has made an arrangement for the
business intercourse of these companies, such as, in its opinion,
they ought to have made for themselves." and that, we said m
Atchtson, Topeka and Santa FjRailroad Co. v. .Denver & NTew
Orleans Railroad Co., 110 U. S. 667, followed at this term in
Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Xissourz .Pacflc Railway Co.,
115 U. S. 587, could not be done. The regulation of matters of
this kind is legislative in its character, not judicial. To what
extent it must come, if it comes at all, from Congress, and to
what extent it may come from the States, are questions we do
not now undertake to decide, but that it must come, when it
does come, from some source of legislative power, we do not
doubt. The legislature may impose a duty, and when imposed
it will, if necessary, be enforced by the courts, but, unless a
duty has been created either by usage or by contract, or by
statute, the courts cannot be called on to give it effect.
The decree in each of the cases 'ISreversed, and the suit s remanded, with directions to dissolve the snyunction, and,
after adjusting the accounts between the partiesfor bussness
done while the snyunctwns were snforce, and decreemng the
_payment qf any amounts that may be found to be due, to
dismiss the bilk.
n. .JusTIcE:

MILLER dissenting.

When these cases were argued before Circuit Judge McCrary
and myself at St. Louis, after due consideration and consultation with him. and Judge Treat, of the District Court, I announced certain propositions as the foundations on which the
decrees should be rendered. These were afterwards entered m
the various circuits to which the cases properly belonged, and,
I believe, in strict accordance with the principles thus announced.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion

Miller, J.

I am still of opinion that those principles are sound, and I
repeat them here as the reasons of my dissent from the judgment of the court now pronounced in these cases.
They met the approval of Judge McCrary when they were
submitted to his consideration. They were filed in the court
in the following language
"1. I am of opinion that what is known as the express business is a branch of the carrying trade that has, by the necessities of commerce and the usages of those engaged in transportation, become known and recognized.
"That, while it is not possible to give a definition in terms
which will embrace all classes of articles usually so carried, and
to define it with a precision of words of exclusion, the general
character of the business is sufficiently known and recognized
to require the court to take notice of it as distinct from the
transportation of the large mass of freight, usually carried on
steamboats and railroads.
"That the object of this express business is to carry small
and valuable packages rapidly, in such a manner as not to subject them to the danger of loss and damage, which, to a greater
or less degree, attends the transportation of heavy or bulky
articles of commerce, as grain, flour, iron, ordinary merchandise, and the like.
"2. It has become law and usage, and is one of the necessities of this business, that these packages should be in the immediate charge of an agent or messenger of the person or
company engaged in it, and to refuse permission to this agent
to accompany these packages on steamboats or railroads on
which they are carried, and to deny them the right to the control of them while so carried, is destructive of the business and
of the rights which the public have to the use of the railroads
in this class of transportation.
"3. I am of the opinion that when express matter is so confided to the charge of an agent or messenger, the railroad
company is no longer liable to all the obligations of a common
carrier, but that when loss or injury occurs, the liability
depends upon the exercise of due care, skill and diligence on
the part of the railroad company

EXPRESS CASES.
Dissenting Opinion

Miller, J,

"4. That, under these circumstances, there does not exist on
the part of the railroad company the right to open and inspect
all packages so carried, especially when they have been duly
closed or sealed up bv their owners or by the express carrier.
"5. I am of the opinion that it is the duty of every railroad
company to provide such -conveyance by special cars, or otherwise, attached to their freight and passenger trains, as are required for the safe and proper transportation of this express
matter on their roads, and that the use of these facilities-should
be extended on equal terms to all who are actually and usually
engaged in the express business.
"If the number of persons claiming the right to engage in
this business at the same time, on the same road, should become
oppressive, other considerations might prevail, but until such
a state of affairs is shown to be actually in existence in good
faith, it is unnecessary to consider it.
"6. This express matter and the person in charge of it should
be carried by the railroad company at fair and reasonable rates
of compensation, and where the parties concerned cannot agree
upon what that is, it is a question for the courts to decide.
"''7. I am of the opinion that a court of equity, in a case
properly made out, has the authority to compel the railroad
companies to carry this express matter, and to perform the
duties in that respect which I have already indicated, and to
make such orders and decrees, and to enforce them by the ordinary methods in use necessary to that end.
"8. While I doubt the right of the court to fix in advance
the precise rates which the express companies shall pay and
the railroad company shall accept, I have no doubt of its right
to compel the performance of the service by the railroad company and after it is rendered, to ascertain the reasonable compensation and compel its payment.
"9. To permit the railway company to fix upon a rate of
compensation which is absolute, and insist upon the payment
in advance or at the end of every train, would be to enable
them to defeat the just rights of. the express companies, to destroy their business, and would be a practical denial of justice.
"10. To avoid this difficulty, I think that the court can as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Dissenting Opinion

Miller, J.

sume that the rates, or other mode of compensation heretofore
existing between any such companies, are prma facze, reasonable and just, and can require the parties to conform to it as
the business progresses, with the right to either party to keep
and present an account of the business to the court at stated
intervals, and claim an addition to, or rebate from, the amount
paid. And to secure the railroad companies in any sum which
may be .thus found due them, a bond from the express company may be required in advance.
"11. When no such arrangement has heretofore been in
existence it is competent for the court to devise some mode of
compensation to be paid as the business progresses, with like
power of final revision on evidence, reference to master, &c.
" 12. I am of opinion that neither the statutes nor constitutions of Arkansas or Missouri were intended to affect the
right asserted in these cases, nor do they present any obstacle
to such decrees as may enforce the right of the express companies."
Three years' reflection and the renewed and able argument in
this court have not changed my belief in the soundness of these
principles.
That there may be slight errors in the details of the decrees
of the Circuit Courts made to secure just compensation for the
services of the railroad companies is possibly true, but i have
not discovered them, and the attention of the court has not
been given to them in deciding this case, for holding, as it does,
that the complainants were entitled to no relief whatever, it
became unnecessary to consider the details of the decrees.
I only desire to add one or two observations in regard to
matters found in the opinion of this court.
1. The relief sought in these cases is not sought on the ground
of usage in the sense that a long course of dealing with the
public has established a custom in the nature of law Usage
is only relied on as showing that the business itself has forced
its way into general recognition as one of such necessity to the
public, and so distinct and marked in its character, that it is
entitled to a consideration different from other modes of transportation.

EXPRESS CASES.
Dissenting Opinion: Miller, J.

2. It is said that the regulation of the duties of carrying by
the railroads, and of the'compensation they shall receive, is
legislative in its character, and not judicial.
As to the duties of the railroad company, if they are not, as
common carriers, under legal obligation to carry express matter
for any one engaged in that business in the manner appropriate
and usual in such business, then there is no case for the relief
sought in these bills. But if they are so bound to carry, then
in the absence of any legislati-ve rule fixing their compensation
I maintain that that compensation is a judicial question.
It is, then, tho ordinary and ever-recurring question on a
quantum meruit. The railroad company renders the service
which, by the law of its organization, it is bound to render.
The express company refuses to pay for this the price wnch
the railroad company demands, because it believes it to be exorbitant. That it is a judicial question to determine what shall
be paid for the service rendered, in the absence of an express
contract, seems to me beyond doubt.
That the legislature may, in proper case, fix the rule or rate
of compensation, I do not deny But until this is done the
court must decide it, when it becomes matter of controversy
The opinion of the court, while showing its growth and importance, places the entire express business of the country wholly at
the mercy of the railroad companies, and suggests no means by
which they can be compelled to do it. According to the principles there announced, no railroad company is bound to receive
or carry an express messenger or his packages. If they choose
to reject him or his packages, they can throw all the business
of the country back to the crude condition in which it was a
half century ago, before Harnden established his local express
between the large Atlantic cities, for, let it be remembered
that plaintiffs have never refused to pay the railroad companies
reasonable compensation for their services, but those companies
refuse to carry for them at any price or under any circumstances.
I am very sure such a proposition as this will not long be
acquiesced in by the great commercial interests of the country and by the public, whom both railroad companies and the
VOL. CXVU-3

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

express men are intended to serve. If other courts should follow ours in this doctrine, the evils to ensue will call for other
relief.
It is in view of amelioration of these great evils that, in dissenting here, I announce the principles which I earnestly believe
ought to control the actions and the rights of these two great
public services.
Mr. JUSTICE FIELD dissenting.
I agree with MIR. JUSTICE MILLER in the positions he has

stated, although in the cases just decided I think the decrees of
the courts below require modification in several particulars;
they go too far. But I am clear that railroad companies are
bound, as common carriers, to accommodate the public in the
transportation of goods according to its necessities, and through
the instrumentalities or in the mode best adapted to promote its
convenience. Among these instrumentalities express companies, by the mode in which their business is conducted, are the
most important and useful.
MR.
cases.

JUSTIOE MATTHEWS

took no part in the decision of these

PICKARD, Comptroller, v. PULLMAN SOUTHERN
CAR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNrrTED STATES FOR THE
MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENIESSEE.
Argued danuary 25, 26, 18SO.-Decided March 1, 1886.

Section 6 of the act of the legislature of Tennessee, passed March 16, 1877,
Laws of 1877, ch. 16, p. 26, which imposes a privilege tax of $50Ver annum on every sleeping car or coach used or run over a railroad in Tennessee and not owned by the railroad on which it is ran or used, is void so far
as it applies to the inter-State transportation of passengers carried over
railroads in Tennessee, into or out of or across that State, in sleeping cars

