JACKSON v. LAWRENCE.
Syllabus.

proceedings for errors in fact, in analogy to the practice in
cases of writs of error coram vobi, unless it is invoked by a
formal bill in equity upon grounds recognized as furnishing a
title to relief. We are, therefore, of opinion that the Supreme
Court of the District, both at special and general term, in entertaining and granting the motion to set aside the judgment
in the present case, committed error, and the proceedings and
judgment thereon are
Reversed, and the cause remanded, with directions to dimrss
the motion of the defendant, but without _preiudice to h
rght to file a bill sn equity.

JACKSON & Another v. LAWRENCE & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE C RCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted April 1, 186.-Decided April 12, 1886.

L made and delivered to W his promissory note for $1300 payable in mnety
days, and a deed of a trae t of land absolute on its face. It was orally
agreed between them that the deed was executed as security for the paynent of the note, and that, if the note was not paid at maturity, W was
authorized to sell the land. The note not being paid at maturity W with

the knowledge and assent of L, sold and conveyed the land to T and applied
the proceeds to the payment of the debt. After the completion of the contract and execution of the deed, but before its delivery to T, a creditor of
L who had recovered judgment against him, levied on this tract of land, to
satisfy the judgment, and caused it to be sold. The purchaser at the sheriff's sale after receiving his deed, filed a bill in equity against the heirs and
devisees of T, praying to be admitted to redeem the land on payment of
the note. Held (1) That the transaction was in equity a mortgage (2)
That parol evidence was admissible to show when the power of sale in the
mortgage became absolute (3) That W had an absolute power of sale when
the conveyance was made to T, the execution of which carried the land
free from the mortgage.

Bill in equity to redeem from a mortgage.
stated in the opinion of the court.

The case is

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

.MXr Aaron S. Everest, Ar T J Johnston, and .X
Jackson for appellants.

.- ..

.lr B. F Iucas for appellees.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellants filed the bill in the Circuit Court. The following facts are shown by the record. One Alvin N. Lancaster being the owner in fee simple of certain lands in Worth,
Nodaway and Atchison Counties, in the State of Missouri, conveyed them on September 15, 1875, to Edward L. Wells by
deed absolute on its face. At the time the deed was executed
Lancaster made and delivered to Wells his promissory note for
$1300, payable in ninety days. There was at the time a verbal understanding between them that the deed was made as
security for the payment of the note, and that if the note was
not paid at maturity Wells should have the right to sell the
land to whom he pleased. The note was not paid at matur
ity Wells pressed Lancaster for payment, and on his failure
to pay, about January 5, 1876, contracted to sell the lands to
George 0. Tallman, and executed to him a quit-claim deed of
that date therefor, which, however, was not delivered until
January 20, 1876.
On January 15, 1876, the plaintiffs in this suit began, by attachment, in the Circuit Court of Worth County, Missouri, an
action against Lancaster, in which the lands in controversy
were seized, and on October 21, 1876, they recovered judgment
against him for $895. On February 21, 1878, executions were
issued on the judgment to the sheriffs of the counties where
the lands lay, and the lands were sold by virtue thereof, and
purchased by the plaintiffs, to whom deeds therefor were made.
George C. Tallman, the vendee of Wells, died on May 5, 1880,
and the defendants in the present suit were his devisees of the
lands above mentioned. Afterwards, on January 31, 1882, the
plaintiffs filed a bill in this case, in which they alleged that the
deed of Lancaster to Wells was in effect a mortgage. executed
to secure the note made by the former to the latter. They
tendered to the defendants the amount due on the note, with
MR. JUSTICE WOODs

JACKSON v. LAWRENCE.
Opimon of the Court.
all the taxes paid by the latter on the lands, and prayed for a

decree permitting them, as purchasers of Lancaster's equity of
redemption, to redeem the lands, and for general .relief.
The defendant answered, that at the time George C. Tallman purchased the lands, and at the time of the delivery of
said deed, which they averred to be on January 5, 1876, he
had no notice of any claim of the plaintiffs against Lancaster,
or that the title of Wells to the lands in controversy was other
or different from the absolute title which the deed from Lancaster to hun purported to convey, and that Tallman intended
to purchase, and did purchase, the absolute title thereto, for
which he paid a full and valuable consideration.
On final hearing the Circuit Court dismissed the bill, and
the plaintiffs appealed.
There is no conflict in the testimony, or disagreement between the parties touching the terms on which Lancaster conveyed the lands in controversy to Wells. Lancaster, Wells,
and one Jordan, who acted as agent for Wells in the transaction, all give the same account. The deed was executed to
secure the payment of the note made by Lancaster to Wells
for $1300, due in ninety days, with the distinct agreement that
if the note was not paid when due, Wells should be authorized
to sell the land. No other account is given of this transaction
by any witnesses.
The deed from Lancaster to Wells was, therefore, in effect a
mortgage, for it is settled that an absolute deed intended by
the parties as a security for a debt is in equity a mortgage.
.Hug)Les v Edwards, 9 Wheat. 489, Sprgg v. Bank of 3fount
Pleaant,14 Pet. 201, 3forrie v. ffixen, 1 How 118, Peugh
v. Davms, 96 U. S. 332, Teal v. TFalker, 111 U. S. 2423 Brant
v. Robertson, 16 :Missouri, 129, ITorley v -Dryden,57 Missouri, 226, O'.Teill v Capelle, 62 Missouri, 202. Is is also settled that evidence written or oral may be admitted to show
the real character of the transaction. Russell v Southard,12
How 139, Babcock v TFyman, 19 How 289, Peugh v Davs,
ub? supra, Brzck v Briwk, 98 U. S. 514.
There being no dispute, therefore, in relation to the terms of
the agreement between Lancaster and Wells, on which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

deed of the former to the latter was executed and delivered,
it is to be read in equity precisely as if the agreement were set
out therein, and is to be considered a mortgage to secure the
payment of the note made by Lancaster to Wells according to
its tenor, with power to Wells in default of payment to sell the
mortgaged premises.
This condition must be taken as a whole, no part of it can
be rejected. The authority to Wells to sell the premises,
in default of payment of the note, was just as much an ele.
ment in the condition as the right of Lancaster to a reconveyance upon payment of the note. The right of Wells to sell
the premses in default of payment was a right of property
which he had bought and paid for, which could not be impaired by an attachment levied on the property by Lancaster's
creditors. Their attachment was as much subject to the right
of Wells to sell in default of payment of the note, as it would
have been to his right to foreclose a mortgage made in the
usual form. After the attachment was levied Wells exercised
the right to sell. He sold, as the record abundantly shows, with
the knowledge and concurrence of Lancaster. The property
brought enough to pay the debt, and no more. It is not disputed that the sale was fair and bonafRde. It, therefore, cut up
by the roots all title of Lancaster, and all claim of the plaintiffs
acquired by their attachment upon the lands in question, and
left neither in them nor Lancaster any right to redeem. The
vendee of Wells stands upon the same ground as if he had
bought the premises at a foreclosure sale, and his title is indefeasible.
This conclusion does not depend upon the fact whether or
not Tallman purchased with or without notice of the verbal
condition under which the deed from Lancaster to Wells was
executed. The rights of Lancaster and those claiming under
hun are not strengthened by the fact that the condition was a
verbal one. They are in no better position than if the condition had been incorporated in the deed and put upon the
public records, thereby giving constructive notice to all the
world. In the latter case it is clear that Wells, having power
to sell, could sell to whomsoever he chose. Therefore, whether

ZEIGLER v. HOPKINS.
Syllabus.

the vendee had notice of the condition would be immaterial.
But the proof in the record that Tallman had no knowledge
or notice of the condition, and that when he bought he supposed the deed was what it purported to be, an absolute conveyance, is clear and. positive.
The case, therefore, in all its elements, falls within the rule
laid down by the Supreme Court of Missouri in lYilsa v
.Dmnrite,21 Missouri, 325. In that case a deed absolute on its
face was executed by Wilson to Drumrite, but was in fact
given as a security for a debt. There was a verbal agreement
between Wilson and Drumrite that the latter should reconvey
if the debt was paid when due, in case of default Drumrite
was authorized to sell the land to enforce payment of his debt.
Wilson failed to pay the debt when due, and Drumrite sold
part of the land to a purchaser without notice. The court,
laying stress upon the fact that the vendee had no notice of
the condition, held that the sale was valid, but that Drumrite
must account to Wilson for the land sold, and must reconvey
Jhe residue.
In the present case, even under the rule laid down by the
Supreme Court of M issouri, there is no right of redemption.
Upon the whole record, therefore, the decree of the Circuit
Court dismissing the bill was right.
.Decreeaflc med.

ZEIGLER v. HOPKINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
Submitted March 1, 1886.-Decided April 12,1886.

A statute of California authorized the opemng of a street m San Francisco, to
be known as Montgomery Avenue, the cost and expenses to be assessed on
certain specified lots in proportion to the benefits accruing therefrom; and
provided that when a majority in frontage of the owners of these benefited
lots should petition certain officials for the opening, those officials should-

