OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

"artificial flowers," an article made of cotton, being dutiable
by that name in the act of 1864, it was held that they were
not dutiable at a less rate, by the imposition of a less duty on
manufactures of cotton, in the act of 1872.
There was no question of fact for the -jury, and it was proper
for the court to direct a verdict for the defendant. Improvement Co. v 3funson, 14 Wall. 442, Pleasantsv _Pant, 22 Wall.
116, Herbert v Butler, 97 U S. 319, Bowditch v. Boston, 101
U. S. 16, Griggs v Houston, 104 U. S. 553, Randall v Baltmare & Ohio Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 478, Anderson County
Commisswners v Beal, 113 U. S. 227, Baylis v Travellers'
Ins. Co., 113 U. S. 316, Schofteld v. Chwago, .3lilwacukee & St.
Paul Railway Co., 114 U. S. 615.
Judgment afirmed.

DI-GLEY & Another v. OLER & Another.
OLER & Another

ERROR

v.
DINGLEY & Another.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MAINE.
Argued March 8, 9, 18S.-Decided April 5, 1886.

D, a dealer in ice, finding himself late in the season of 1879 m possession of a
large quantity, which threatened to become a total loss, pressed 0, another
dealer, to buy a part of it. 0 declined to purchase, but offered to take a cargo
and "return the same to you next year from our houses." D accepted O's offer, and delivered the cargo of ice to him that season. Early in July of the
season of 1880 D verbally requested 0 to deliver the ice. On the 7th of July
0 wrote to D "It is not just or equitable for you to expect us to give
you ice now worth $5.00 per ton when we have letters of yours offenng the
ice that we got at fifty cents per ton. We must therefore decline to ship
the ice for you this season, and claim as our right to pay you for the ice in
cash at the price you offered it to other parties here, or give you ice when
the market reaches that point." D answered by letter, dated July 10th,
that he had sold the ice in advance in expectation of its delivery to him,
and it did not seem to him right that 0 should ask for a postponement in
the delivery. To this 0 answered on the 15th of July by letter, in which,
after restating facts which made the demand in his opinion inequitable, he

DINGLEY v. OLER.
Statement of Facts.
said "We cannot therefore comply with your request to deliver'the ice
claimed, and respectfully submit that you ought not to ask this of us in
view of the facts stated herein and in ours of the 7th." " We will be glad
to hear from you m reply, but will be more pleased to have a personal interview, and venture to suggest that you .come here for the purpose." No
reply was made to this suggestion, either personally or by letter, and this
suit was commenced six days later.
eld
1. That the contract gave 0 the option, during the whole shipping season
of 1880, of delivering ice to D in return for the cargo received in 1879, he
giving D reasonable notice of the time of delivery when fixed, and an opportunity to prepare for receiving and taking it away from O's houses.
2. That O's answers of the 7th and 15th July were not intended by him to be,
and were not a final refusal to perform the contract on his part, and that
at the time of the commencement of the action there had been no breach
of the contract , and therefore,
3. That it was unnecessary to discuss or decide whether an absolute refusal
by 0, in the middle of the shipping season of 1880, to perform his contract
at all would have conferred upon D a right of action for a breach before
the expiration of the contract period for performance.

This was an action of assumpsit brought by Dingley
Brothers in the Superior Court of the County of Kennebec,
m ainae, against W M. Oler & Co., of Baltimore, to recover
damages for the alleged breach of an agreement, whereby, it
was averred, the defendants undertook and promised, in consideration of 3245-%l tons of ice delivered to them by the plaintiffs in 1879, to return and deliver to the plaintiffs the same
quantity of ice from the defendants' ice-houses in the year 1880.
The case was removed by the defendants into the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Maine, when the
cause was put at issue by a plea of non assump&it, and was submitted to the court by the parties, the intervention of a jury
having been duly waived.
The court made a special finding of the facts, and, in pursuance of the conclusions of law based thereon, rendered judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for the sum of $7335.35.
Exceptions were taken by each party to rulings of the court,
on which errors are assigned, the cause being brought here for
review on writs of error sued out by the respective parties.
The court found, as matter of fact, that late in the season of
1879, the plaintiffs, finding themselves in possession of a large
quantity of ice undisposed of, and which threatened to be a

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Fact6.

total loss, pressed the defendants to buy some or all of it.
Both parties were dealers in ice, cutting it upon the Kennebec
:River and shipping it thence during the season, that is, while
the river was open.
The offers of the plaintiffs were rejected, but the defendants,
by their letter of 6th September, 1879, made a counter offer to
take a cargo and "return the same to you next year from our
houses." The plaintiffs, by their letter of September, 1879,
accepted this offer and several cargoes were delivered upon the
same terms, the total delivery was 3245

21

tons.

In July, 1880, one of the plaintiffs spoke to one of the defendants about delivering the ice, and he replied that he did
not know about that, delivering ice when it was worth five
dollars a ton, which they had taken when it was worth fifty
cents a ton, but he promised to write an answer. July 7, 1880,
the defendants wrote, repeating their objections, and saying,
among other things, "we must, therefore, decline to ship the
ice for you this season, and claim as our right to pay you for
the ice in cash at the price you offered other parties here (that
is, fifty cents), or give you ice when the market reaches that
point."
The plaintiffs, 10th July, 1880, wrote that they had a right
to the ice, and had sold it in expectation of its delivery, to
which the defendants answered 15th July, 1880, reciting the
circumstances of the case and the hardship of such a demand,
and agam denying the obligation. The letter contained this
sentence "We cannot, therefore, comply with your request to
deliver you the ice claimed, and respectfully submit that you
ought not to ask this of us," &c., asking for a reply or a personal interview Neither appears to have been given, and this
action was commenced July 21, 1880. The court further found
that ice was worth five dollars a ton m July, 1880, and fell
later in the season to two dollars a ton.
Thereupon the court held, as matter of law, that there was
a contract executed by the plaintiffs, and to be executed by the
-defendants, who were bound to deliver 3245V- tons of ice
from their houses on the Kennebec River during the year of
1880, that the year meant the shipping season, and that the

DIGLEY v. OLER.
Statement of Facts.

defendants had the whole season, if they chose to demand it,
in which to make delivery, and that the letters of July 'th and
15th from the defendants to the plaintiffs contained an unequivocal refusal to deliver any ice during the season, that the
defendants having unqualifiedly refused to ship the ice, this
action could be maintained, though brought before the close
of the season, but that the damages were not to be reckoned
by the price of ice in July, that what the plaintiffs lost was
3245-P& tons of ice some time during the season, that the
price of ice went down after July to two dollars a ton, and the
measure of damages must be reckoned at this rate, with interest from the date of the writ.
To these conclusions of law the plaintiffs below excepted,
contending that the right to fix the time for delivery under the
contract had vested in them, that it was properly exercised by
their demand in July, 1880, that the refusal to deliver at that
time constituted the breach of the contract by the defendants,
and fixed the damages at 85 per ton, the market value of the
ice on that day
The defendants below excepted, contending on their part that
the letters of July 7th and 15th did not constitute an unequivocal refusal to deliver any ice during the season, amounting to a
renunciation, and, in that sense, a breach of the contract, and
that the action was prematurely brought, the right of action,
if any, not accruing until after the expiration of the period
within which, by the terms of the contract, they had the option
to deliver.

0

The letter of July '7, 1880, from the defendants to the plaintiffs was as follows
"BTA'LThORIE, M., 'Tt July, 1880.
Messrs. Dingley Bros., Gardiner, Me.
DEAR Sins As per promise of our W M. 0., we write you
concerning the ice we got from you last fall. We have before
us the whole of the correspondence on that head, and note
throughout the same that you promise to stand between us
and any loss. We quote from yours of September 9, 1879, on
this head, as follows

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

IIn fact, we do not propose for you to become losers on
account of extending us this accommodation.'
Our W H. 0. does not remember your having spoken to
him while at Gardiner about your intention of selling the ice,
and was very much surprised when informed that you had
done so.
We are very sorry indeed that this question should have
arisen between us, who have been on such friendly terms hitherto, but we feel that it is not just or equitable for you (in consideration of the ice being used by us only upon your earnest
solicitation, and upon your representation that you would lose
the whole unless we assisted you by taking some) to expect us

to give you ice now worth $5.00 per ton when we have letters
of yours offering the ice that we got at fifty cents per ton.
We must, therefore, decline to ship the ice for you this season,
and claim as our right to pay you for tne ice, in cash, at the
price you offered it to other parties here, or give you ice when
the market reaches that point. Again expressing our sincere
regret that any complication should arise between us, and assuring you of our innocence in the matter, we are,
W M.

Yours truly,

OLER

& CO."

The letter was answered by Dingley Bros. on July 10, as
follows
"G

nDniExi,

July 10, 1880.

IMessrs. W M. Oler & Co., Baltimore.
DEAR Sims Yours of 7th is in hand, and we must say the
conclusion you have come to greatly astonishes us.
Our sole object in making this exchange, no one knows
better than yourselves, was to tide us over to such a time
during this season as the ice could be marketed at some reasonable figure, and in confirmation of this we refer you to your
proposition, made under date of September 6th, viz.
'It would, of course, be more convenient for us to ship this
cargo from our own houses, but remembering past favors, we
feel inclined to assist you in your present difficulty, and -will
load this cargo from your house, should our terms be agreeable
to you.

DINGLEY v. OLER.
Statement of Facts.

We, of course, do not entertain the idea of buying, having
a superabundance on hand, but will take this cargo and return
same to you next year from our houses.'
Upon this we have acted, and in the utmost good faith made
sale of the ice; and now, after all of this, and having refused
to buy it yourselves, for you to ask a postponement in the delivery, seems to us hardly right.
Now, whatever the final settlement of this matter is to be,
we want you to fill our order, otherwise, we cannot tell what
the result might be.
It is not in our minds to do otherwise than right with any
one, and certainly with yourselves, and it is our great desire
not to get complicated with the third party in that matter,
and assure you that your regrets cannot exceed ours that there
should have arisen any difference of opinion concerning this
affair, and certain it is that neither of us can afford to do
wrong by the other in it, and hoping you will take a more
favorable view upon further reflection, we remain,
DINGLEY Bnos."
Truly yours,
The defendants' letter of July 15th was in reply to this, and
was as follows
,BATLu[oRE, MD:., 15th July, 1880.
Messr. Dingley Bros., Gardiner, Me.
GENTLEmm-T Yours of 10th duly received, and in reply
would state that our desire to do right is quite as sincere and
earnest as your own, and that we regret our inability to. see
the matter referred to in the same form in which you state it.
The case, briefly stated, appears to us thus, as we think the
correspondence of last year will show being very much
troubled with the quantity of ice left on your hands by an unfortunate contract with the Messrs. Barker, you repeatedly
urged and importuned us to help you out, and promised us if
we would do so that no loss should result to us from the transaction. Under these assurances we at length agreed, purely
for your accommodation and relief, to take one cargo, and
later, under the same influences, took more. Now you ask us,

OCTOBER TERM1, 1885.
Argument for Dingley.

at a time when we are pressed by our sales and by short supply, threatening us and others, to deliver to you the equivalent
in tons of the ice taken from you under the circumstances
stated. This does not seem to us to be fair, and certainly does
not comport or agree in any way with your agreement to protect us from loss by means of the favor we were intending to
do you. We are reluctant to have a disagreement or difference of opinion with old friends, but regard it our duty to
protect our own interests, always, however, with a proper
regard to the dictates of right. We cannot, therefore, comply
with your request to deliver to you the ice claimed, and
respectfully submit that you ought not to ask this of us in
view of the facts stated herein and in ours of the 7th.
You do not reply to our arguments, but simply ask us to
surrender our well-formed opinion.
Can you reasonably ask us to do this?
Is not your usually clear and equitable judgment clouded by
the manifest considerations of self-interest pressing upon you 9
We beg you to consider anew all the circumstances of the
transaction and your assurances to us as inducements to make
it with you, and cannot doubt that you will be led thereby to
admit that your request is not reasonable. We will be glad to
hear from you in reply, but would be more pleased to have a
personal interview, and venture to suggest that you come here
for the purpose. Our business is now more active and confining than ever before. We are deprived of the services of W
Geo., and therefore cannot come to see you.
With regards, we are,
Yours truly,

W M. OLER & Co."

To this no answer was returned, and the present suit was
brought six days after its date.
Afr Orville Dewey Baker for Dingley and another. Mr
Leslie C. Corns was with him on the brief.
This contract can be construed in three ways 1. That the
Olers had the whole shipping season of 1880 in which to return
the ice and the right to elect the delivery time during that

DINGLEr v. OLER.
Argument for Dingley.

season. 2. That the Dingleys had the right to elect the time
of delivery during the season. 3. That the rights were reciprocal and either party had the right to elect any reasonable
time during the season.
If we adopt the theory that the defendants had the right to
elect the delivery time during the whole season, then it is contended that they did elect. The plaintiffs demanded the ice,
the defendants refused to deliver, and based the refusal solely
on their intention to repudiate -i toto, making no objection on
the ground of their right to elect. This is equivalent to an
election. An election once made is binding, and the promise
is henceforth single to perform the alternative chosen, according to the maxim, Quod semelplacuit -n electionibus, amfiius
displicere non _otest. Brown v Royal Ins. Co., 1 E. & E. 853,
TMard v. Day,4 B. & S. 337, 352, Gata v Zees, 3 H. & 0. 558,
Borrowman v Fee,4 Q. 33. D. 500, 504, 506, R-ugg v Wier, 16
C.B. N. S. 471. Leake on Contracts, ed. 1878, 679, Co. Litt.
146 a., 2 Wharton on Contracts, 623, Comyn's Digest, Election, C. 2, 2 Addison on Contracts, Abbott's Ed. 1188. Jloucl
v. Auller, 7 Q. B. Div. 92, is a late and strong case for the plaintiff. Defendant sold to plaintiff 2000 tons pig iron to be delivered
to plaintiff f. o. b. at defendants' wharf. "Delivery November,
1879 or equally over Nov Dec. and January next at 6 d. per
ton extra." Letters of both parties showed and Bramwell
and Bagallay, L. JJ. agreed that vendee had election to take
whole in November or equally in each of the three months.
Defendants are estopped to deny or recall their assent,
plaintiffs having acted upon it by beginimng suit. An election
is final when the other party has acted on it and changed his
position for the worse. Borrowman v _.Kree, above cited.
And an expressed intention never to perform the contract, if
made blefore the contract time for performance, though not of
itself a breach and withdrawable till the other party has acted
on it, becomes irrevocable by the other party's merely bmngsng suit on it. La Socet4 v ilfildeors, 49 Law Times N. S.55.
See also .Eouniyoy v MJietzger, 12 Am. Law.Reg. N. S.442,
Swazn v Seamens, 9 Wall. 254, 274.
If it is assumed that either party had the right to elect the
VOL. cxvn--32

OCTOBER TERM1, 1885.
Argument for Dingley.

time of delivery during the whole season of 1880, for which
there is authority in Maine (see Bradstreet v 1Rch,72 Maine,
233, S.C., 74 Maine, 303), then the calling of plaintiffs for the
lee in July, and the tender of vessels, and the defendants' refusal constituted a breach of the contract.
But we contend that plaintiffs had the right to elect the delivery time. They were the moving party under the contract,
the one to do the first act. (1.) By the legal construction of this
contract the defendants were not to fetch the borrowed ice
back to the plaintiffs, but the plaintiffs were to go and get it at
the houses of the defendants, and that was the place of delivery It was a contract for articles in bulk and cumbersome.
With such cumbersome property when no place of delivery is
specified they are held to be deliverable only at the place where
stored or manufactured. Benjamin on Sales, Perkins' Ed. § 682,
Ib.Corbin's Ed., note 23, § 896, Smith v Gillett, 50 111. 290,
Raglandv Wood, 71 Ala. 145. (2). Plaintiffs were the "moving
agent" because they, and not the defendants, were to furnish
vessels. (a.) Because in the absence of express agreement a
Xlutuum, like a Commodahtm, is gratuitous, and hence the
lender merely permits the borrower to come and get so much
ice at the borrower's charge, and the lender is to retake at his
own charge. Neither is to be at any expense m the first instance, but each agrees simply to appropriate so much ice in his
own houses to the other's use, if he chooses to come and get it.
Any other construction would impose burdens on the party
giving the accommodation in the first instance. Story on Bailments, § 219. (b.) Because the place of delivery being, as we
have seen, the defendants' ice houses, the getting of the ice is
necessarily and as matter of law, at plaintiffs' charge. And
they must first name the vessel and give notice of their readiness to receive the lee. Until this is done, there is no duty on
the vendor to deliver. WValton v Rlack, 5 Houston (Del.), 149,
Roberts v. Beatty, 2 Penn. 63. This contract, like every other,
must be construed with reference to the situation and intention
of the parties at the time it was made, their own practical construction of it afterwards, and the peculiar nature of the ie
business, and when so construed, it is plain that both parties

JDINGLEY v. OLER.
Argument for Dingley.

must always have contemplated that the election for 1880 was
with the plaintiffs. The subsequent acts and conduct of the
parties show that this was their intention and the construction
which they put on the contract, and this intention will prevail,
even though in the absence of such evidence the law would construe the contract otherwise.
If either the second or the third construction here suggested
is adopted, the case becomes a simple contract by defendants
to do a thing on a day certain, a demand and refusal on that
day, a consequent breach and damage, and the. action is sustamnable.
If the first construction be adopted the cases sustain that the
action is still well brought. The evidence and findings show
an unqualified refusal on defendants' part to perform. Even
where the demand is before the contract time for performance
has begun, a distinct and unequzvocal'refusal to perform at all,
may be treated as a breach and action be brought at once. On
this point we submit that the array of authority is overwhelming. It comes from the highest courts in England, the highest
courts in five of the States in this country, the United States
Circuit Court in Virginia and Pennsylvania, incidentally from
the United States Supreme Court, and unqualifiedly from five
of the most reliable text books Leake, Chitty, and Parsons on
Contracts, Benjamin on Sales, and Sedgwick on Damages.
(1.) It has been frequently held in the case of an executory
contract that if the promisor has by any _posdtive act rendered
himself unable to perform his part, it not only serves to dispense with the performance of any conditions precedent on the
part of the promisee before bringing his action, but also is itself
a breach of the contract. Short v Stone, 8 Ad. & El. 358,
Lovelock v. ]ranklyn, 8 Ad. & El. 371, .Fordv Tiley, 6 B. &
C. 325, Heard v. Bowers, 23 Pick. 455, .enerson v Henry,
101 Mass. 152. Leake on Contracts, ed. 1867, 460, Benjamin
on Sales. § 567.
(2.) When one party to an executory contract absolutely
refuses to perform his contract, and'before the time arrives
for performance distinctly and unqualifiedly communicates
that refusal to the other party, that other party 'can, if

OCTOBER TERA,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

he choose, treat that refusal as a breach and commence an
action at once therefor. The English cases to support this
proposition are (chronologically arranged) Phi~potts v Eva",
5 :M. & W 475 [1841], Cort v Ambergate & NottinghamRailway Co., 17 Q. B. 127 [1851], HRoclster v. De Ua Tour, 2 El. &
B1. 678 [1853], Danube & Black Sea Railway Co. v Xenos,
11 0. B. N. S. 152 [1861], Frost v RYnigkt, L. R. 5 Ex. 322
[1870], S. C., L. R. 7 Ex. 111. In this country many States
have accepted and affirmed the doctrine of Hfochster v De la
Tour See Crabtreev. .lessersmitA, 19Iowa, 179 [1865], Holloway v. Grifflth, 32 Iowa, 409 [1871], Fox v Hitton, 19 Ill. 519
[1858], Chmaber of Commerce v Sollitt, 43 Ill. 519 [1866],
XAounioy v. N3etzger, 12 Am. Law Reg. 442 [1873 Penn.],
Dugan v Anderson, 36 Maryland, 561 [1872], Burtis v
Tompson, 42 N. Y 246 [1870], Howard v. Daly, 61 N. Y
362 [1875], -ancock v. FLVew York life Insurance Co., 13 Am.
Law IReg. K. S. 103 [C. Ct. U S. Virginia, 1874], Ex arte
Pollard,2 Lowell, 411, Smoot's Case, 15 Wall. 36.
(3.) Such, then, we find to be the law in the case of a bilateral
contract-that is, a contract where both parties are bound,
and where the consideration of each promise is the promise of
the other party But the principle applies with much more
reason in the case of a unilateral contract-as is the one at
bar-one party having already performed the consideration,
and the other being alone bound.
.Yfr Bernaird Carter for Oler & Co.
MR. JusTicE MATTHEws, after stating the case as above reported, delivered the opinion of the court.
We agree in opinion with the Circuit Court that, according
to the terms of the contract, the defendants had the option of
delivering the ice contracted for at any time during the whole
shipping seaon of 1880, giving to the plaintiffs reasonable
notice of the time when fixed, and an opportunity to prepare
for receiving and taking it away from the defendants' houses.
The language of the contract was that the defendants were to
"return the same (the ice) to you next year from our houses."

DINGLEY v. OLER.
Opimon of the Court.

Next year, it is not denied, means the shipping season of 1880,
during which navigation was open, and in time for the plaintiffs, on notice, to obtain vessels, send them to the ice 'houses
for loading, and get out of the river before it was closed to
navigation. The defendants were to deliver, and although
that, under the circumstances, required nothing on their part
but to be ready for the plaintiffs to receive and load on their
vessels, that state of readiness might depend upon other engagements of the defendants in respect to ice in the same
houses, so that they had the right under the terms of the contract to consult their convenience as to the particular day
when they would furnish to the plaintiffs the ice for shipment.
The first and principal act to be done under the contract was
to be done by the defendants, that is, the delivery, and the
words of the agreement are fully satisfied when that is done at
any reasonable time within the season of 1880. And this confers upon the defendants, bound to make the delivery, the
choice of the time within the period permitted by the contract.
TF-heler v. Tew Brnunswwk & Canada .RailroadCo., 115 U.
S. 29.
We differ, however, from the opinion of the Circuit Court
that the defendants are to be considered, from the language of
their letters above set out, as having renounced the contract
by a refusal to perform, within the meaning of the rule which,
it is assumed, in such a case, confers upon the plaintiffs a right
of action before the expiration of the contract period for performance. We do not so construe the correspondence between
the parties. In the letter of July th, the defendants say
"We must, therefore, decline to ship the ice for you this season,
and claim, as our right, to pay you for the ice, in cash, at the
price you offered it to other parties here. or give you ice when
the market reaches that point." Although in this extract they
decline to ship the ice that season, it is accompanied with the
expression of an alternative intention, and that is, to ship it, as
must be understood, during that season, if and when the
market price should reach the point which, in their opinion,
the plaintiffs ought to be willing to accept as its fair price
between them. It was not. intended, we think, as a final

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opuron of the Court.

and absolute declaration that the contract must be regarded
as altogether off, so far as their performance was concerned,
and it was not so treated by the plaintiffs. For, in their
answer of July 10th, they repeat their demand for delivery
immediately, speak of the letter of the 7th instant as asking
"for a postponement of the delivery," urge them "to fill our
order," and close with "hoping you (the defendants) will take
a more favorable view upon further reflection," &c. Here,
certainly, was a locus penientzte conceded to the defendants
by the plaintiffs themselves, and a request for further consideration, based upon a renewed demand, instead of abiding
by and standing upon the previous one.
Accordingly, on July 15th, the defendants replied to the
demand for an immediate delivery to meet the exigency of the
plaintiffs' sale of the same ice to others, and the letter is
evidently and expressly confined to an answer to the particular demand for a delivery at that time. They accordingly
say "Now you ask us at a time when we are pressed by our
sales and by short supply threatening us and others, to deliver
to you the equivalent in tons of the ice taken from you under
the circumstances stated. This does not seem to us to be
fair," &c. "We cannot, therefore, comply with your request
to deliver to you the ice claimed, and respectfully submit
that you ought not to ask this of us in view of the fact stated
herein and in ours of the 7th." This, we think, is very far
from being a positive, unconditional, and unequivocal declaration of fixed purpose not to perform the contract in any event
or at any time. In view of the consequences sought to be
deduced and claimed as a matter of law to follow, the defendants have a right to claim that their expressions, sought to be
converted into a renunciation of the contract, shall not be enlarged by construction beyond their strict meaning.
The view taken by the Circuit Court of the correspondence
and conduct of the parties, and which we hold to be erroneous,
brought the case within the rule laid down by the English
courts in flochster v De la Tour, 2 El. & Bi. 678, Frost v.
KYnight, L. R. I7Ex. 111, Danube & Black Sea Railway Co.
v Xenos, 11 C. B. N. S. 152, and which, in Rover v Johnson,

DINGLEY v. OLER.
Opinon of the Court.

L. R. 8 0. P 167, 178, was called a novel doctrine, followed
by the courts of several of the States, Crabtree v .AXessersmith,
19 Iowa, 1'19, Holloway v Grftlth, 32 Iowa, 409, -Fox v .itton, 19 Ill. 519, Chamber of Commerce v Sollitt, 43 Ill. 519,
.Dugan v. Anderson, 36 Maryland, 561, Burtis v _Thompson,
42 N. Y 246, but disputed and denied by the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts in Dan-els v NVwton, 114 Mass. 530,
and never applied in this court. Accordingly, the right to
maintain the present action was justified upon the principle
supposed to be established by those cases.
The construction we place upon what passed between the
parties renders it unnecessary for us to discuss or decide
whether the doctrine of these authorities can be maintained as
applicable to the class of cases to which the present belongs,
for, upon that construction, this case does not come within the
operation of the rule invoked.
In Smoot'e Case, 15 Wall. 36, thig court quoted with approval the qualifications stated by Benjamin on Sales, 1st ed.
424, 2d ed. § 568, that "a mere assertion that the party will be
unable, or will refuse to perform his contract, is not sufficient,
it must be a distinct and unequivocal absolute refusal to perform the promise, and must be treated and acted upon as such
by the party to whom the promise was made, for, if he afterwards continue to urge or demand a compliance with the contract, it is plain that he does not understand it to be at aR end."
We do not find any such refusal to have been given or acted
upon in the present case, and the facts are not stronger than
those in Avery v. Bowden, 5 El. & Bl. 714, S. C., 6 El. & BI.
953, which were held not to constitute a breach or renunciation
of the contract. The most recent English case on the subject is
that of .Tohnstone v Milling, in the Court of Appeal, 16 Q. B.
D 460, decided in January of the present year, which holds
that the words or conduct relied on as a breach of the"contract
by anticipation must amount to a total refusal to perform it,
and that that does not by itself amount to a breach of the contract unless so acted upon and adopted by the other party
The present action was prematurely brought before there
had been a breach of the contract, even in this sense, by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinmon of the Court.

defendants, for what they said on Tuly 15th amounted merely
to a refusal to comply with the particular demand then made
for an, immediate delivery
The judgment s accordinglyreversed upon the writ of er.or
sued out by the defendants below, and the cause remanded,
with instructionsto takefurtherproceedings therezn accord'tng to law, and upon the writ of error of platntifs below
judgment will be gmven that they take nothng by thezr writ
of error

TURPIN & Another v. BURGESS, Collector.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Argued March 18, 1886.-Decided April 5, 1886.

The exportation stamp required to be affixed to every package of tobacco intended for exportation, before its removal from the factory, again declared
constitutional, and the decision in, Pace v. Burgess, 92 U. S. 372, reaffirmed.
An excise laid on tobacco, before its removal from the factory, is not a duty
on "exports," or "on articles exported," within the prohibition of the
Constitution, even though the tobacco be intended for exportation. The
case of Gee v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517, cited and applied.

The case is Stated in the opimon of the court.
.M" Charles S. Strzngfellow for plaintiffs in error.
7fr Solicitor General for defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought to recover from the Internal Revenue
collector of the third district of Virginia the amount paid by
the plaintiffs from 1869 to 1872, inclusive, for stamps affixed
to certain cases of tobacco manufactured by them and intended
for exportation. The sum paid for the stamps was twenty-live
liR.

JUSTICE BRADLEY

