HOYT v. RUSSELL.
Syllabus.

1837, the lands in controversy were placed upon the tax-books
and the damages thereon taxed, and it was further shown
that the State of Virginia never claimed the lands as forfeited,
but from the year 1838 down to the beginning of this suit, a

period of more than thirty-three years, had assessed and collected taxes therefor from the plaintiffs and those under whom
they claim. It follows that the failure to show a forfeiture of
the lands under the act of February 27, 1835, was complete.
It would, therefore, have been the duty of the court, if it gave
any instruction upon this branch of the defence, to, say to the
jury that the defendants had failed to maintain it. It can
hardly be urged by them, as a ground for the reversal of the
judgment, that the court did not so charge. Brobst v Brocek,
10 Wall. 519, P&illips Conmtruction Co. v Seymour, 91 U. S.
646.

Judgment affirmed.

HOYT & Another v. RUSSELL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITOR-Y OF MONTANIA.
Submitted March 11, 1886.-Decided March 22, 1886.
A Territorial Court is bound to take judicial notice of the statutes of the Terntory m operation affecting a subject brought before it in the regular course
of procedure.
On May 8, 1873, the Legislature of Montana enacted that any person who
should thereafter discover a mining claim should file in the office of the
recorder of the county a statement in some material respects different from
the statement previously required by law to be filed in such case, and that
the act should take effect on and after its passage. On that date a statute
was in force there which provided that "all acts of the Legislature declaring that they should take effect from and after their passage shall so take
effect only at the seat of government, and in other portions of the Territory,
allowing fifteen miles from the seat of government for each day." On the
13th of May, 1873. at a place in the Territory in which the act of May 8,
1873, had not come into force, H & G discovered a lode, and, located it,
and subsequently filed a notice of location complying in all respects with
the law as it was before the passage of the act of May 8, 1873, but not complying with the requirements of that act. R, who had made a conflicting
-location, fied an adverse claim under Rev. Stat. ยง 2326. On the trial, the
VOL. CXVIi- 26

OCTOBER TERM1, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.
court refused to receive proof of the location by HI & G, because they did
not also prove affirmatively that the act of May 8 had not taken effect at
the lode at the time of the location, by reason of its distance from the seat
of government Held, That the court should have taken 3udicial notice of
the fact that that statute was not then in force there, and that it was error
to exclude the evidence for the want of such proof.

The case is state in the opinion of the court.
XM. William Okurnasero for plaintiffs in error submitted on
his brief.
No appearance for defendant in error.
Mu. JUsici FIFLD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to determine the right of the parties to the
possession of certain mining ground situated in Lewis and
Clark County, in the Territory of Montana. The plaintiffs im"
error, Hoyt and Gonn, defendants in the court below, allege
that on the 13th day of May, 1873, they discovered a silverbearing quartz lode in that county, which they named "Mammoth Lode," and then proceeded to locate it by placing stakes
so as to mark its extent, and that on the 29th day of that
month they filed in the recorder's office of the county a notice
or declaratory statement of the location, describing the claim.
In October, 1877, Goun conveyed his interest to Mary A.
Hoyt, and she subsequently filed an application for a patent in
the land office at Helena, in the Territory
Russell, the plaintiff below, the defendant in error here, also
claimed a silver-bearing quartz lode in that county, which, he
alleges, he and one Bassett discovered in 1867, duly located,
and named "The J. H. Russell Lode." The claims of these
parties-Hoyt and Russell-conflicted, and in opposition to
her application he filed his adverse claim under the statute,
Rev Stat. ยง 2326, and in due time commenced this action,
joining Gonn as a defendant with her.
The plaintiff made proof of his location. The defendants'
notice of location was accompaned by an affidavit that they
were citizens of the United States and of the Territory, but the
other matters set forth therein were not sworn to, and for this

HOYT v. RUSSELL.
Opinion of the Court.

omission it was excluded.

The action of the court on other

points became of little moment in the face of this ruling, if that
was correct, their proof of right to the disputed ground failed.
Their lode was located under an act of Montana of December 26, 1864, and the act of Congress of May 10, 1872. The
act of Montana provided that notice of the discovery of any
lead, lode, or ledge should be filed for record in the office of
the recorder of the county in which the same was situated,
within fifteen days from the date of discovery, and that at the
same tune an oath should be taken before the recorder that all
the claimants were bona ftde residents of the Territory Session Laws of Montana of 1864, page 328. The act of Congress does not require an affidavit. It merely prescribes that
the record, subsequently made, where one is required by the
regulations of the mining district, shall contain the names of
the locators, the date of the location, and such a description,
by reference to some natural object or permanent monument,
as will identify the claim. Rev. Stat. ยง 2324. By an act of
the Legislature of Montana, passed on the 8th of May, 1873,
it was provided that any person who should thernfter discover
a mining claim upon any vein or lode bearing gold, silver,
cinnabar, lead, tin, copper, or other valuable deposits, should,
within twenty days after the discovery, file for record in the
office of the recorder of the county a declaratory statement
thereof in writing, on oath, before some person authorized by
law to administer oaths, describing such claim in the manner
provided by the laws of the United States. Extra Session of
1873, 84.
Another act then in force provided that all acts and joint resolutions, declaring that they should take effect from and after
their passage and approval by the governor, should so take
effect only at the seat of government and in other portions of
the Territory, allowing fifteen miles from the seat of government for each day Rev. Stat. Montana, ยง 785. That seat
was then at Virginia, in Madison County The pleadings
admit that the ground in controversy is situated in Lewis and
Clark County, and in Township No. 8 North, Range 5 West,
but there was no evidence as to its distance from Virginia. It

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

was contended that the court should have taken judicial notice
of the distance and declared that the ground was so far distant
that the act of May 8, 1873, was not in force there at the time
of the discovery of the lode and its location. But the court
replied that while courts would take judicial notice of what is
generally known within the limits of their jurisdiction, of the
divisions of a State or Territory into towns or counties, of the
leading geographical features of the land, of the positions of
important cities and towns and of government surveys of the
public lands, no principle or authority authorized or required
them to take judicial notice of the place where mere private
property was situated, or its distance from the seat of government'; that matters only of public importance and notoriety
were within the scope of what courts will take judicial notice
of, and that matters of mere private concern, as the location
or situation of a farm or a mining claim, or its distance from
the seat of government, were not within the operation of the
principle.
It is undoubtedly true that judicial notice is not taken of
purely private concerns, when they are not connected- with or
necessarily involved m a matter of a public nature, but it is
otherwise when they are so connected or involved. For example, a court will take notice of the boundaries of the State
or Territory where it holds its sessions, and of judicial districts,
and municipal subdivisions within it. If the public surveys have
established the distance from its capital to any such subdivision,
the court will take notice of the fact, and if private property
be shown to be within that subdivision, its distance also from
the capital will be judicially noticed-notice of the general fact
embracing all the facts included in it. In the present case, the
court below was required to take notice of the extent of its
jurisdiction, not only of the subjects placed by law under its
cognizance, but of its extent territorially It should have
known judicially whether the laws of the Territory, which it
was appointed to expound, were in operation with reference to
a subject brought before it in the regular course of procedure.
It was bound to know whether they were in force in the township designated in the county of Lewis and Clark on the 13th

HOYT v. RUSSELL.
Opmion of. the Court.

day of May, 1873, and that necessarily involved a knowledge
of its distance from the capital of the Territory It may be
that the judge's information on the subject was at fault, and
calculations and inquiries on the subject may have been necessary Such is the case with reference to a great variety of subjects of general concern, of which courts are required to take
judicial notice. Information to guide their judgment may be
obtained by resort to original documents in the public archives or to books of history or science or to any other proper
source. In this case,-it appears by the government maps of the
Territory, upon which the public surveys are marked, that the
distance from the seat of government to the nearest point of
the township in which the mining ground in controversy is
situated exceeds seventy-five miles. The act of 'May 8, 1873,
was not, therefore, in force there on the 13th of May, the
day of the discovery of the "Mammoth lode." The court having become informed on this subject, should have so declared,
and its conclusion would not have been open to contest before
the jury It erred, therefore, in excluding the notice of the
defendants' location for the omission stated, because no proof
was offered of the distance of the disputed ground from the
seat of government, where the act took effect on the day of
its passage. The court said that if there were any exception to it by reason of the distance of the Mammoth lode
from that place, the defendants should have made the fact
appear by proof, holding that the act not having been complied
with, the notice was inadmissible in evidence.
It is not necessary to express any opinion whether, after the
passage of the act of Congress of 1872, the legislature of the
Territory could add any further requirement touching the record
of notices of location. It is sufficient for the reversal of the
judgment that the court required proof of a fact of which it was
bound to take judicial notice.
Judgment reversed, and cause remandedfor a now trial.

