OCTOBER TERI, 1885.
Syllabus.

-Y1T James B. V'edenSurgA for plaintiff in error submitted
on his brief.
.lr Preston Stevenson for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WArITrE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This judgment is affirmed. The trial was by the court without a jury and there is no special finding of facts. The only
questions presented by the bill of exceptions which we can consider are those which relate to the refusal of the court to allow
certain interrogatories to be put to witnesses on the stand, and
in these we find no error. The general finding prevents all inquiry by us into the special facts and conclusions of law on
which that finding rests. .Norrs v Jackson, 9 Wall. 125,
Cooper v Omohundo, 19 Wall. 65, 69, .fartinton v. Farbanks, 112 U. S. 670, 673.
Ajfrmed.

JEFFERSOT, Trustee, v. DRIVER, Administrator, &
Another.
APPEA

FROM THE CIORUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN

DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

Submitted March 1, iS86.-Decided March 15, 15M.

A removal of a cause from a State court on the ground of local prejudice can
only be had where all the parties to the suit on one side are citizens of different States from those on the other.
The provision as to the removal of a separable controversy under the second
subdivision of Rev. Stat.
639 has no application to removals under the
third subdivision and the similar provision in the act of March 3, 1875,
applies only to removals under that act.
A purchaser pendente lite of real estate who becomes party to the suit is subject to the disabilities of the parties at the time he comes in, in respect of
removing the cause from a State court to a Circuit Court of the United
States.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

JEFFERSON v. DRIVER.
Opinion of the Court.

.fr T J THornet., .Afr J C. Tappan ,.1' .D. ... Myers, and
.r W .. Sneed for appellants.
.Ar . F Adams for appellees.
]mn. CHIEF JusTicE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1875, 18
Stat. 470, ch. 137, from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had been removed from a State court. The
case was here on a former appeal, and it was then decided
that a former removal, to which J T. Jefferson was a party,
had been improperly accepted by the Circuit Court, and the
cause was remanded to the State court by the order of this
court. Edrzngton, v. efferson, 111 U. S. 770. Reference is
made to the report of that appeal for the facts of the case as
they appear in the record down to that time.
That appeal, which was taken from a final decree upon the
merits, did not operate as a supersedeas, and before the suit
got back to the State court a sale of the property involved in
the litigation was made, in accordance with the. decree appealed from, under which J W Jefferson, a citizen of Tennessee, not then a party to the suit, became a purchaser and went
into possession.
After the case got back to the State court Mrs. Edrington
resigned her office as executrix of the will of James H. Edrmgton, and John B. Driver, a citizen of Arkansas, was appointed
administrator with the will annexed. On the 16th of January,
1885, the administrator, who had been substituted as complainant for Mrs. Edrington as executrix, filed a petition
against J W Jefferson, the purchaser of the property pending
the former appeal, for an account of the rents and profits while
he was in possession, and the next day Jefferson presented his
petition for a removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the
United States, on the ground -that, as to him, the suit was a
new one just begun, in which there was a controversy "wholly
between citizens of different States, and which can be fully determined as between them without the presence or intervention
VoL. CXVl-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

of the parties thereto, to wit, a controversy between your petitioner, defendant J W Jefferson, who is a citizen and resident
of the State of Tennessee, and the complainant in the original
and amended bill, John B. Driver,
who is a citizen
of Mississippi County, Arkansas." He also petitioned for a
removal, under ยง 639, subdivision 3, of the Revised Statutes,
on the ground of local prejudice. On the 15th of January,
1885, J. T. Jefferson, who was a party to the first petition for
removal, presented his petition for another removal on the
ground of local prejudice.
When the suit was entered in the Circuit Court of the
United States under these removals it was remanded to the
State court, and thereupon this appeal was taken.
So far as the removals on the ground of local prejudice are
concerned, it is only necessary to say that such removals can
only be had where all the parties to the suit on one side are
citizens of different States from those on the other. X.lyers v
Swann, 107 U S. 546. The language of the statute is, "when
a suit is between a citizen of the State in which it is brought
and a citizen of another State, it may be so removed on the
petition of the latter, whether he be plaintiff or defendant."
The provision as to the removal of a separable controversy,
under the second subdivision of Rev Stat. ยง 639, has no application to removals under the third subdivision, and the similar
provision in the act of 1875 applies only to removals under
that act. Bible Soctety v Grove, 101 U. S. 610. As in this
case many of the defendants are citizens of the same State
with Driver, the complainant, it follows that the suit was
properly remanded under this branch of the applications for
removal.
As to the application of J W Jefferson for a removal under
the act of 1875, the rule in Cable v. Ellis, 110 U. S. 389, applies. He was brought into the suit as a purchaser vendente
lite, and the relief asked against him is only an incident to the
original controversy The proceeding is merely ancillary to
the suit pending when he bought the property in dispute, and
under which he got possession. It is, in short, only a part of
the machinery in the administration of the cause. By purchas-

SLOANE v. ANDERSON.
Opinion of the Court.

ing pendente lite he connected himself with the suit, subject to
the disabilities of the other parties in respect to a removal at
the time he came in.
The order remanding the suit is
4ffirmed.

SLOAN-E & Others v. ANDERSON.
ERROR TO

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Submitted March 1, 1886.-Decided March 15, 1886.

The filing of separate answers by several defendants, sued jointly in a State
court, on an alleged joint cause of action in tort, in which each avers
that he acted separately on his own account and not jointly, in the acts
complained of, does not divide the suit into separate controversies so as to
make it removable into'the Circuit Court of the United States.
Pirte v. Tvedt, 115 U. S. 41, affirmed and applied.

This writ of error was sued out to review the action of the
Circuit Court in remanding the cause to the State court, from
whence it had been removed. The case is stated in the opinion
of the court.
Yrf J -. Tfower and .r
error.

C. IV Buznn for plaintiffs in

.M .fpZ
P Wing and 21r J fubley As]ton for defendant in
error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error brought under the act of -March 3,
1875, 18 Stat. 470, ch. 137, to reverse an order of the Circuit
Court remanding a suit which had been removed from a State
court. The suit was brought by Anderson, the defendant in
error, a citizen of Wisconsin, against John Sloane, William D.
Sloane, "HenryF Sloane, Thomas C. Sloane, Walter W Law,
Alexander Wright, and Charles L. Watson, partners under the
name of W & J. Sloane, all citizens of New York, John V
Mr. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

