OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

and not in any respect for those who had separated from it
and become aliens to their Nation. We see no just ground on
which the claim of the petitioners can rest to share in either of
the funds held by the United States in trust for the Cherokee
Nation, and the decree of the Court of Claims must, therefore, be
Affirmed.

PH(ENIX INSURANCE COMPANY v. ERIE AND
WESTERN TRANSPORTATION COMPANY
APPEAL FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

FOR

Argued January 19, 20, 186.-Decided March 1, 1886.

The right, by way of subrogation, of an insurer, upon paying for a total loss
of the goods insured, to recover over against third persons, is only that
right which the assured has.
A common earrer may lawfully obtain insurance on the goods carried against
loss by the usual perils, though occasioned by the negligence of ns own
servants.
In a bill of lading, which provides that the carrier. shall not be liable for loss
or damage of the goods by fire, collision, or dangers of navigation, a further
provision that the carrier, when liable for the loss, shall have the full benefit of any insurance that may have been effected upon the goods, is valid,
as between the carrier and the shipper; and therefore, in the absence of any
misrepresentation or intentional concealment by the shipper in obtaining
insurance upon the goods, or of any express stipulation on the subject in the
policy, limits the right, by way of subrogatii, of the insurer, upon paying
to the shipper the amount of a loss by stranding, occasioned by the negligence of the carrier's servants, to recover over against the carrer.

This was a libel in admiralty against a common carrier by
an insurance company which had insured the owners upon the
goods carried, and had paid them the amount of the insurance,
and claimed to be subrogated to their rights against the carrier. The defence relied on was that, by a provision of the
contract of carriage, the carrier was to have the benefit of any
insurance upon the goods. The District Court held that this
provision was valid, and therefore no right of subrogation

PH(ENIX INS. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 313
Statement of Facts.

accrued to the libellant, and entered a decree accordingly
The libellant appealed to the Circuit Court, which found the
following facts
The respondent was a Pennsylvania corporation, authorized
to carry on the business of lake transportation, was engaged in
business as a common carrier, and owned a line of propellers
running between Erie and other ports on the Lakes, called the
Anchor Line, one of which propellers was the Merchant.
On July 24, 1874, the firms of A. lf. Wright & Co., owners
of 16,325.34 bushels of corn, worth $8000, Elmendorf & Co.,
owners of 800 bushels of corn, worth $600, and Gilbert Wolcott & Co., owners of 370 bushels of corn and 689 bushels of
oQts, together worth $800, caused to be shipped on board the
propeller Merchant, then lying at Chicago, and bound for Erie,
the grain aforesaid, consigned to themselves at other places
beyond, and severally made oral agreements with the respondent, by which, in consideration of certain stipulated freight,
the respondent agreed to transport the several parcels of grain
from Chicago by way of the Lakes to Erie, and thence to forward them to their ultimate destinations, and it was tacitly
understood that bills of lading for the shipments would be subsequently issued to the shippers, but nothing whatever was said
respecting the terms and conditions thereof.
After the goods had been received on board and the propeller had departed on her voyage, the respondent delivered
to the shippers respectively bills of lading, each of which described the goods as shipped on the propeller Merchant, and
addressed to the owners by name at their ultimate destination, fixed the rate of freight from Chicago to that destination, and contained an agreement that the goods should be
"transported by the Anchor Line, and the steamboats, railroad
companies and forwarding lines with which it connects, until
the said goods shall have reached the point named in the bill
of lading, on the following terms and conditions," among which
were these
"The said Anchor Line, and the steamboats, railroad companies and forwarding lines with which it connects, and which
receive said property, shall not be liable" "for loss or damage

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

by fire, collision, or the dangers of navigation while on seas,
bays, harbors, rivers, lakes or canals. And where grain is
shipped in bulk, the said Anchor Line is hereby authorized to
deliver the same to the Elevator Company at Erie, as the agent
of the owner or consignee, for transshipment (but without further charge to such owner and consignee) into the cars of the
connecting railroad companies or forwarding lines, and when
so transshipped in bulk, the said Anchor Line and the said connecting railroad company or carrier shall be and is, in consideration of so receiving the same for carriage, hereby exempted
and released from all liability for loss, either in quantity or
weight, and shall be entitled to all other exemptions and conditions herein contained."
"It is further agreed that the Anchor Line, and the steamboats, railroads and forwarding lines with which it connects,
shall not be held accountable for any damage or deficiency in
packages, after the same shall have been receipted for in good
order by consignees or their agents, at or by the next carrier
beyond the point to which this bill of lading contracts."
"It is further stipulated and agreed that in case of any loss,
detriment or damage, done to or sustained by any of the property herein receipted for, during such transportation, whereby
any legal liability or responsibility shall or may be incurred,
that company alone shall be held answerable therefor in whose
actual custody the same may be at the time of the happening
of such loss, detriment or damage, and the carrier so liable
shall have the full benefit of any insurance that may have been
effected upon or on account of said goods."
"And it is further agreed that the amount of the loss or
damage so accruing, so far as it shall fall upon the carriers
above described, shall be computed at the value or cost of said
goods or property at the place and time of shipment under
this bill of lading."
These bills of lading were received by the shippers without
protest or objection, and were signed by Elmendorf & Co. and
by Wolcott & Co., but not by A. M. Wright & Co.
The bills of lading were received by the shippers without
specially reading the terms and conditions, their attention was

PH(ENIX INS. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 315
Statement of Facts.
not directed to them, nor was anything said respecting them,
and no reduction of freight from the rate stipulated in the oral
agreement was made in consequence of those terms and rondiT
tions, or other consideration paid therefor, but the shippers
had. often before shipped goods by this line under sinilar contracts, and thereby knew, or had every opportunity of knowing, the contents of these bills of lading.
The propeller completed the lading of the goods during the
evening of July 24, 1874, and about midnight departed on her
voyage. About ten o'clock the next morning, in a dense fog,
she was stranded on the western shore of Lake Michigan,
about ten miles south of Milwaukee, through the negligence of
those managing her, and,,mmediately filled with water, and
all the grain became wet and damaged 1200 bushels of it
were thrown overboard to get off the vessel, and 5188 bushels
were brought into Milwaukee in a perishable condition, and
were there sold for the sum of $1037.60, which was retained
by the respondent.
On said 24th of July, the libellant, a New York corporation,
authorized to transact a general lake and insurance business,
'insured the shippers, at their request and expense, against loss
or damage to these shipments from perils of the seas and other
perils, and issued to them certificates of insurance, for $8000,
,$520 and $700, respectively, in this form
"N o. 627. The Plihcenix Insurance Company, New York.
$8000. Chicago, July 24, 1874. This certifies that A. M.
Wright & Co. [are] insured, under and subject to the conditions of open policy No. 2263 of the Phcenix Insurance Company, in the sum of eight thousand dollars, on corn on board
the propeller Merchant, at and from Chicago to Erie. Loss
payable to assured, order hereon, and return of this certificate.
"CHAs. E. CHASE, Agent."
The policy of insurance, referred to in these certificates, insured "Charles E. Chase, on account of whom it may concern,'"
"lost or not lost, at and from ports and places to ports and
places, on cargo, premiums to be settled monthly, upon all kinds

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

of lawful goods and merchandise laden or to be laden on board"
any vessel or vessels, and was otherwise in the usual form of
an open policy of insurance for $1,000,000 against marine
risks, including perils of the seas, "barratry of the master
and mariners, and all other perils, losses and misfortunes that
have or shall come to the hurt, detriment or damage of the
said goods and merchandises or any part thereof;" and contained these provisions "The company are to be entitled to
premium at their usual rates on all shipments reported or not.
It is warranted by the assured to report every shipment on the
day of receiving advices thereof, or as soon thereafter as may
be practicable, when the rate of premium shall be fixed by the
president or the vice-president of the company" "No shipment to be considered as insured until approved and endorsed
on this policy by C. E. Chase, agent."
The shipments were duly approved and endorsed on the
policy On August 19, 1874, the shippers abandoned the
goods to the libellant as a total loss, by written instruments,
substantially alike, the material part of the one executed by A.
M. Wright & Co. being as follows
"Chicago, August 19, 1874. For and in consideration of
the sum of eight thousand dollars, the receipt whereof is
hereby acknowledged, we do by these presents assign, transfer,
cede and abandon to the Phoenix Insurance Company all our
right, title and interest in and to the property hereinafter
specified, and to all that can or may in any way be made,
saved or realized from the damage or loss, reported to have
occurred, by reason of which a claim of payment has been
made by us, with full power to take and use all lawful ways
and means (at the risk and expense of the Phoenix Ins. Co.) to
make, save and realize the said property, to wit, 16,325.34
bushels of corn, as per bill of lading and invoice, shipped on
board the propeller M erchant, bound from Chicago for Erie,
and covered by insurance with the Phcenix Ins. Co., by open
policy _No. 2263, certificate No. 627, under date of July 24,
1874."
In consequence thereof, the libellant paid to the shippers the
amount of the insurance as and for a constructive total loss.

PHCLEIX INS. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 317
Argument for Appellant.

A general average adjustment was made on September 2,
1884-, and readjusted on February 1, 1875, awarding to the
libellant the sum of $2466.12 on account of these shipments.
The Circuit Court made and stated the following conclusions of law 1. That the bills of lading were the contracts by
which the rights of the parties were to be governed. 2. That
under them the respondent became liable to the shippers for
the value of the shipments, by reason of the negligent loss of
the same, and that the shippers had rights of action therefor.
3. That by the abandonments, the libellant did not succeed to
those rights of action of the shippers, by reason of the stipulation contained in the bills of lading, that "the carrier so liable
shall have the full benefit of any insurance that may have been
effected upon or on account of said goods." 4. That the libellant was entitled to recover the sum of $2466.12, awarded to
it in the general average adjustment readjusted as aforesaid,
with interest thereon.
The Circuit Court entered a decree for the libellant for this
sum only, and the libellant appealed to this court.
M' George D Van Dyke for appellant (.1r George A.
Black also fied a brief for same), cited, in the divisions of
his argument under the following general heads, cases as follows As to the legal effect of the abandonments, Chesapeake
Inurance Co. v. Stark, 6 Cranch, 268, Colunbzan Insurance
Co. v. Ashby, 4 Pet. 139, Patapsco .Insurance Co. v. Southgate, 5 Pet. 604, Comegys v Vasse, 1 Pet. 193, Unn Insurance Co. v Burrell, Anthon N. P 128, .Mellon v Bucks,
5 Martin La. N. S. 371, Rogers v Hosack, 18 Wend. 319,
.- lutual Insurance Co. v Cargo of the George, Olcott Adm.
89, The .fNonticello, 17 How 152, The )Ianstee, 5 Bissell,
381,
.C., 7 Bissell, 35, Bradlie v. 2lfaryland Insurance Co.,
12 Pet. 378, Columbtan Insurance Co. v Catlett, 12 Wheat.
383, Unson Insurance Co. v Scott, 1 Johns. 106, Smith v.
.Xanufacturng Co., 7 Met. (Mass.) 448, 453, Sun Autual Insurance Co. v Hall, 10-4 Mass. 507, Stewart v Greenock Insurance Co., 2 H[. L. Cas. 159; Garrisonv [emphts Insurance Co.,
19 How 312, Hall & Iong v. Railroad Cos., 13 Wall. 367,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellant.

.- obile & -Montgomery Railway v Jurey, 111 U. S. 584, The
Atlas, 93 U. S. 302, Tze Potomac, 105 U. S. 630, Ins. Co. v.
Stinson, 103 U S. 25 That the carrier had notice of assured's
right of abandonment and the legal effect thereof, from 'the
derivation of its title, Sheppard v Taylor, 5 -Pet. 675 That
the assured could not iipair the rights of the insurer under
the abandonments by dealing with one charged with notice
thereof, Welch v. .Mandeville, I Wheat. 233, Andrews v
Beecker, 1 Johns. Cas. 411 and note to 2d ed., Hart v
Western, Railroad Co., 13 Met. (Mlass.) 99, .Yonmouth Ins. Co.
v flutchnson, 6 C. E. Green (21 N. J. Eq.), 107, Connecticut
ns4urance Co. v Eze Railway Co., 73 N. Y 399, Steele v.
FranklinInsurance Co., 17 Penn. St. 290, Atlantic Inourance
Co. v Storrow, 1 Edw Oh. 621, Foster v. Van Reed, 70 N.
Y 19, Carpenter v Provmdence Insurance Co., 16 Pet. 495,
Bank of South Carolinav Bzctknell, 1 Cliff. 85 That a common carrier cannot contract for the benefit of the shipper's
msurance to protect him against his own negligence, Bank of
Zentucky v Adams Express Co., 93 U. S. 174, Caldwell v
Bepress Co., 21 Wall. 266, Railroad Co. v Pratt, 22 Wall.
123, Railway Co. v Stevens, 95 U S. 655, Hart v Pennsylvanta Railroad Co., 112 U. S.331, The Hadji,20 Fed. Rep.
875, S. C., 16 Fed. Rep. 861, The Titama,19 Fed. Rep. 101,
Peek v V S. R. Co., 10 H. L. C. 473, CincinnatiRailway Co.
v Spratt,2 Duval, 4, Candee v FesternlnJon,Tel. Co., 341 Wise.
471, Home Insurance Co. v Baltrmore Wfarehouse Co., 93 U
S. 527, Hooper v Robnson, 98 U. S. 528, The Sidney, 23
Fed. Rep. 88, W-aters v .lfonarch Assurance Co., 5 El. & Bi.
870, London & NV-orthwestern Railway Co. v Glyn, 1 El. &
1B. 652, North British Insurance Co. v London & Globe Insurance Co., 5 Oh. D 569, Darrellv Tibbitts, 5 Q. B. D. 560,
Joyce v Kennard, L. R. 7 Q. B. 78, -3futualInsurance Co. v.
Sherwood, 14 How 351, 367-8, .Jfathews v Howard Insur
ance Co., 1 Kern. 1, 2fcQuirk v The Penelope, 2 Pet. Adm.
276, Phnu Insurance Co. v Cochran, 51 Penn. St. 143, Citzzens Insurance Co. v .Afarsh, 4 Penn. St. 386, WValker v. Maitland 5 B. & Ald. 171, C'rowley v Cohen, 5 B. & Ad. 478,
Vtan _Natta v. Security Insurance Co., 2 Sandf. Super. Ct. 490,

PH(ENIX INS. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 319
Opinion of the Court.

Savage v Oorn Exchange Isurance Co., 36 N. Y 655 As
to whether the assured had defeated the abandonments by
the stipulation in the bill of lading respecting the benefit of
insurance, The Adriatic, 107 U S. 512, The Benefactor,
102 U S. 214, Sun Mutual v Ocean Insurance Co., 107
U S. 485, Barnes v Williams, 11 Wheat. 415, HNodges v.
Easton, 106 U. S. 408, Bostwzck v. Baltzmore & Ohio
Railroad, 45 N. Y 712, Baker v. .3ichtgan Southern Railroad, 42 Ill. 73, Strohn v .Detroit & 3filwacukee Railway
Co., 21 Wise. 554, Detroit & .Ailwaukee Railroad Co. v.
Adams, 15 Mich. 458, New Jersey Steam NSavigatzon Co. v.
3A erchants' Bank, 6 How 344, York Co. v. Central Railroad, 3 Wall. 111, Railroad Co. v X7fan'facturzng Co., 16
Wall. 318, insurance Co. v. Railroad Co., 104 U. S. 146,
Western Transportation Co. v _7!ewhall, 24 Ill. 466, illinos
Central Railroad Co. v Smyser, 38 II. 354, B.e & Western
Transportaton Co. v. Dater, 91 Ill. 195, Aferckants' iw.Dpatch
v Theilbar, 86 Ill. 71, HUoadley v. -Arort/iern Tranportation
Co., 115 Mass. 304, The )elaware, 14 Wall. 579, Scudder v
-rntwn Bank, 91 U. S.406, Pope v _ZVickerson, 3 Story, 484,
Aaynard v Syracuse & Binghamton Railroad, 71 N. Y
180, HUolsapple v. Rome & Vatertown. Railroad, 86 N. Y
275, 07mstmas v. Russell, 14 Wall. 69, Dillon v Barnard,
21 Wall. 430, Removal Cases, 100 U. S. 457, Xfinturn v.
JfXanufacturzng Izsurance Co., 10 Gray, 501, Stearns v.
Qusncy Insurance Co., 124]Mass. 61, Swam v Seamens, 9
Wall.254, .Flaniganv Turner, 1 Black, 491, Iing v. Fowler,
16 Mass. 397, Charles v Altin, 15 0.' B. 46, Alston v JHerring, 11 Ex. 822, Willard v -Dorr,3 M ason, 161.
.Mr George B. Hibbard for appellee.
Mm JUsTicE GiPA, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It being found as matter of fact that the lading of the goods
on board the propeller was not completed until the evening
of the 24th of July, that she departed on her voyage about
midnight, and that- the bills of lading were not delivered by

OCTOBER TERTM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

the carrier to the shippers until after her departure, it is clear
that the bills of lading were not actually delivered until the
25th. But it being also found that oral agreements for the
carriage were made on the 24th, with the understanding that
bills of lading would be subsequently issued, and that the
shippers, having often before shipped goods by this line under
similar bills of lading, knew or had every opportunity of knowing their terms and conditions, it is also clear that the bills of
lading were but a putting in form of the oral agreements made
on the 24th, and took effect as if they had been delivered and
accepted on that day.
The certificates of the agent of the insurance company,
without which the policy of insurance did not attach to these
goods, were also made on that day, and described the goods
as on board the propeller. The contract of carriage and the
contract of insurance must therefore be treated as substantially
contemporaneous, and both made before the loss of the goods.
There is nothing to show any misrepresentation or intentional
concealment by the assured in obtaining the insurance, or that
the insurer had or had not knowledge or notice of the usual
form of the bills of lading.
The policy of insurance contains no express stipulation for
the assignment to the insurer of the assured's right of action
against third persons. In the bills of lading, it is expressly
stipulated that the carriers, whose railroad or vessels form part
of the line of transportation, shall not be liable for loss or
damage by fire, collision, or dangers of navigation, and that
each carrier shall be liable only for a loss of the goods while in
its custody, "and the carrier so liable shall have the full benefit of any insurance that may have been effected upon or on
account of said goods."
The question is, whether under these circumstances the
insurer, upon payment of a loss, became subrogated to the
right to recover damages from the carrier.
When goods insured are totally lost, actuallyor constructively,
by perils insured against, the insurer, upon payment of the loss,
doubtless becomes subrogated to all the assured's rights of action
against third persons who have caused or are responsible for

PHC(ENIIX INS. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 321
Opinion of the Court.
the loss. No express stipulation in the policy of insurance, or
abandonment by the assured, is necessary to perfect the title of
the insurer. From the very nature of the contract of insurance
as a contract of indemnity, the insurer, when he has paid to the
assured the amount of the indemnity agreed on between them,
is entitled, by way of salvage, to the benefit of anything that
may be received, either from the remnants of the goods, or from
damages paid by third persons for the same loss. But the
insurer stands in no relation of contract or of privity with such
persons. His title arises out of the contract of insurance, and
is derived from the assured alone, and can only be enforced in
the right of the latter. In a court of common law, it can only
be asserted in his name, and, even in a court of equity or of
admiralty, it can only be asserted in his right. In any form
of remedy, the insurer can take nothing by subrogation but
the rights of the assured. Comegys v. VFasse, 1 Pet. 193, 214,
Fretz v Bull, 12 How 466, 468, The 3fontwello, 17 How 152,
155, Garrmson v .- emphts Ins. Co., 19 How 312, 311, .H-allv
Railroad Cos., 13 Wall. 36, 370, 371, Yhe Potomac,105 U. S.
630, 634, 635, -Mobile & .iXontgomery Railway v. J-trey,111 U. S.
584, 594, Clark v Wilson, 103 Mass. 219, Simpson v Thomson,
3 App. Gas. 279, 286, 292, 293. That the right of the assured
to recover damages against a third person is not incident to the
property in the thing insured, but only a personal right of the
assured. is clearly shown by the fact that the insurer acquires
a beneficial interest in that right of action, in proportion to the
sum paid by him, not only in the case of a total loss, but likewise in the case of a partial loss, and when no interest in the
property is abandoned or accrues to him. Hallv. RailroadCos.,
The Potomac, and Simpson v Thomson, above cited.
The right of action against another person, the equitable
interest in which passes to the insurer, being only that which
the assured has, it follows that if the assured has no such right
of action, none passes to the insurer; and that if the assured's
right of action is limited or restricted by lawful contract between him and the person sought to be made responsible for
the loss, a suit by the insurer, in the right of the assured, is
subject to like limitations or restrictions.
voL. cxVI-21

OCTOBER TERM,. 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

For instance; if two ships, owned by the same person, come
'into collision by the fault of the master and crew of the one
ship and to the injury of the other, an underwriter who has
insured the injured ship, and received an abandonment from
the owner, and paid him the amount of the insurance as andfor a total loss, acquires thereby no right to recover against the
other ship, because the assured, the owner of both ships, could
not sue himself. Simpson v Thomson, above cited, Globe Ins.
Co. v Sherlock, 25 Ohio St. 50, 68.
Upon the same principle, any lawful stipulation between the
owner and the carrier of the goods, limiting the risks for which
the carrer shall be answerable, or the time of making the claim,
or the value to be recovered, applies to any suit brought in the
right of the owner, for the benefit of his insurer, against the
carrier, as, for instance, if the contract of carriage expressly
exempts the carrier from liability for losses by fire, York Co. v
Central Railroad,3 Wall. 107, or requires claims against the
carrier to be made within three months, Express Co. v. Caldwell, 21 Wall. 264, or fixes the value for whi-zh the carrier
shall be responsible, Hartv Penn&ylvanta Railroad, 112 U. S.
331. So the stipulation, not now in controversy, in the bills of
lading in the present case, making the value of the goods at the
place and time of shipment the measure of the carrier's liability,
would control, although in the absence of such a stipulation the
carrier would be liable for the value at the place of destination,
as held in -Jobile& 3fontgomery Railway v. Jurey, 111 U. S.
584.
The stipulation in these bills of lading, that the carrers
"shall not be liable for loss or damage by fire, collision, or the
dangers of navigation," clearly does not protect them from
liability for any loss occasioned by their own negligence. 1By
the settled doctrine of this court, even an express stipulation in
the contract of carriage, that a common carrier shall be exempt
from liability for losses caused by the negligence of himself
and his servants, is unreasonable and contrary to public policy,
and therefore void. Bailroad Co. v Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357,
Railroad Co. v Pratt, 22 Wall. 123, Bank of JKentucky v
Adams Express Co., 93 U. S. 174, Railway Co. v Stevens, 95

PH(ENIX INS. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 323
Opimon of the Court.

U. S. 655. And it may be that, as held by Judge Wallace in a
case in the Circuit Court, a stipulation that "no damage that
can be insured against will be paid for" would not protect the
carrier from liability for his own negligence, because that would
be to compel the owners of the goods to insure against the negligence of the carrier. The Hadji, 22 Blatchford, 235.
But the stipulation upon the subject of insurance, in the bills
of lading before us, is governed by other considerations. It
does not compel the owner of the goods to stand his own insurer, or to obtain insurance on the goods, nor does it exempt
the carrier, in case of loss by negligence of himself or his servants, from liability to the owner, to the same extent as if the
goods were uninsured. It simply provides that the carrier,
when liable for the loss, shall have the benefit of any insurance
effected upon the goods.
It is conclusively settled, in this country and in England, that
a policy of insurance, taken out by the owner of a ship or goods,
covers a loss by perils of the sea or other perils insured against,
although occasioned by the negligence of the master or crew
or other persons employed by himself.
laters v. Aferchants'
_Toutsville -Ins.Co., 11 Pet. 213, Copeland v. Ylew England Ins.
Co., 2 IMfet. 432, General Ins. Co. v Sherwood, :14How 351,
366, Davzdson, v Burnand,L..TR. 4 C P 117, 121.
Any one who has made himself responsible for the safety of
goods has a sufficient interest in them to enable him to obtain
insurance upon them.
Contracts of reinsurance, by which one insurer causes the
sum which he has insured to be reassured to him by a distinct
contract with another insurer, with the object of indemnifying
himself against his own responsibility, (though prohibited for a
time in England by statute,) are valid by the common law, and
have always been lawful in this country, and in a suit upon
such a contract, the subject at risk and the loss thereof must be
proved in the same manner as if the original assured were the
plaintiff. 3 Kent Com. 278, 279, Sun Ins. Co. v. Ocean Ins.
Co., 107 U. S. 485, .facklenzze v Whitworth, L. R. 10 Ex. 142,
and 1 Ex. D. 36.
So a common carrier, a warehouseman, or a wharfinger,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

whether liable by law or custom to the same extent as an msurer, or only for his own negligence, may, in order to protect
himself against his own responsibility, as well as to secure his
lien, cause the goods in his custody to be insured to their full
value, and the policy need not specify the nature of his interest.
Crowley v Cohen, 3 B. & Ad. 478, De Forest v. Fulton Is.
o., 1 Hall 84, 110, Waters v .Zonarch Assurance Co.. 5 El. &
B1. 870, London & lVorthwestern P2ailwayv. Glyn, 1 El. & El.
652, Savage v. Corn Exchange Ins. Co., 36 N. Y 655, Joyce v
.Kennard,L. R. 7 Q. B. 78, Commonwealth v S oe & .Zeather
Ins. Co., 112 Mass. 131,
ITome Ins. Co. v Baltimore Warehouse
Co., 93 U. S. 527, NLvorth British Is. Co. v London, Z]vwerpool
& Globe Ins. Co., 5 Oh. D. 569.
No rule of law or of public policy is violated by allowing a
common carrier, like any other person having either the general
property or a peculiar interest in goods, to have them insured
against the usual perils, and to recover for any loss from such
perils, though occasioned by the negligence of his own servants.
By obtaining insurance, he does not diminish his own responsibility to the owners of the goods, but rather increases his means
of meeting that responsibility If it were true that a ship
owner, obtaining insurance by general description upon his ship
and the goods carried by her, could, in case of the loss of both
ship and goods, by perils insured against, and through the negligence of the master and crew, recover of the insurers for the
loss of the ship only, and not for the loss of the goods, some
trace of the distinction would be found in the books. But the
learning and research of counsel have failed to furnish any such
precedent.
On the contrary, in one of the earliest cases in which the rule
that a policy of insurance covers losses by perils insured against,
though occasioned by the negligence of the servants of the assured, was judicially affirmed, the assured, being the owner of
a ship, had chartered her for a West India voyage, and by the
usages of trade bore the risk of bringing the cargo from the
shore to the ship, the policy was upon the boats of the ship,
and upon goods in them, and the amount recovered of the insurer was for goods being carried from the shore to the ship m

PH(ENIX INS. CO. v. ERIE TRANSPORTATION CO. 325
Opinon of the Court.

her boats, and lost by the wrecking of the boats in consequence
of the misconduct and negligence of some of the ship's crew
Such was the state of facts to which Lord Chief Justice Abbott
applied the language, cited and approved by Mr. Justice Story
in Waters v .2lfer/kants' Lousville Ins. Co., 11 Pet. 222, and by
Chief Justice Shaw in Copelandv N-ew EnglandhIs. Co., 2 Met.
442- "In this case, the immediate cause of the loss was the
violence of the winds and waves. No decision can be cited,
where, in such a case, the underwriters have been held to be
excused in consequence of the loss having been remotely occasioned by the negligence of the crew I am afraid of laying
down any such rule, it will introduce an infinite number of
questions as to the quantum of care which, if used, might have
prevented the loss. Suppose, for instance, the master were to
send a man to the mast-head to look out, and he falls asleep, in
consequence of which the vessel runs upon a rock, or is taken
by the enemy, in that case it might be argued, as here, that the
loss was imputable to the negligence of one of the crew, and
that the underwriters were not liable. These, and a variety of
other such questions, would be introduced, in case our opinion
were in favor of the underwriters." Walker v. M2aitland,5 B.
& Aid. 171, 174-, 175.
So in the recent case of .Yorth British Ins. Co. v. Zondon,
Zsveipool & Globe Ins. Co., it was assumed, as unquestionable,
that insurance obtained by a wharfinger would cover a loss
by his own negligence. 5 Ch. D. 569, 584.
As the carrier might lawfully himself obtain insurance
against the loss of the goods by the usual perils, though occasioned by his own negligence, he may lawfully stipulate
with the owner to be allowed the benefit of insurance voluntarily obtained by the latter. This stipulation does not, in
terms or in effect, prevent the owner from being reimbursed
the full value of the goods, but being valid as between the
owner and the carrier, it does prevent either the owner himself, or the insurer, who can only sue in his right, from maintaining an action against the carrier upon any terms. inconsistent with this stipulation.
Nor does this conclusion impair any lawful rights of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opnon of the Court.

insurer. his right of subrogation, arising out of the contract
of insurance and payment of the loss, is only to such rights as
the assured has, by law or contract, against third persons. The
policy containing no express stipulation upon the subject, and
there being no evidence of any fraudulent concealment or misrepresentation by the owner in obtaining the insurance, the
existence of the stipulation between the owner and the carrier
would have afforded no defence to an action on the policy, according to two careful judgments rendered in June last and
independently of each other, the one by the English Court of
Appeal, and the other by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts. Tate v Ilysloy, 15 Q. B. D. 368, Jackson Co. v.
Boylston Ins. Co., 139 Mass. 508.
In Tate v Lyslop, owners of goods, insured against risks in
crafts or lighters, had previously agreed with a lighterman
that he should not be liable for any loss in crafts except loss
caused by his own negligence, and did not disclose this agreement to the underwriters at the time of procuring the insurance. The sole ground on which it w s held that the
owners could not recover on the policy was that this agreement was material to the risk, because the underwriters, as the
assured knew, had previously established two rates of premium,
depending on the question whether they would have recourse
over against the lighterman. Lord Justice Brett observed
that, but for the two rates of premium established by the underwriters and known to the assured, the omission of the
assured to disclose their agreement with the lighterman could
only have affected the amount of salvage which the underwriters might have, and would have been immaterial to the
risk, and consequently to the insurance. 15 Q. B. D. 375, 376.
In Jackson Co. v Boylston Ins. Co., it was adjudged that,
in the absence of any fraud or intentional concealment, the
undisclosed existence of a stipulation between the assured and
the carrier, like that now before us, afforded no defence to
an action on the policy
It may be added that our conclusion accords with the decision of Judge Shipman in 1?intoul v NAew York CentralRailroad, 21 Blatchford, 439, as well as with those of Judge Dyer

GLASGOW v. LIPSE.
Statement of Facts.

in the District Court, and Judge Drummond in the Circuit
Court, in the present case. 10 Bissell, 18, 38. See also
Carsta-rs v. .Meanzwd & Traders' Ins. Co., 18 Fed. Rep.
473, The Sidney, 23 Fed. Rep. 88, .21ercantileIns. Co. v.
Calebs, 20 N. Y 173.
Decree afflirned.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY dissented.

GLASGOW, Executor, v. LIPSE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF VIRGINIA.
Argued March 3, 4, 1886.-Decided March 15, i8S6.

Payment in good faith at its maturity in Virginia in Confederate currency of
a debt contracted there in 1860 to be paid there in 1862, and the receipt
and acceptance of the same by the creditor, discharged the debt.
In 1860 two brothers, executors of the will of their father, who had resided
in Virginia, and had died there, contracted in that State to convey, under a
power in the will, real estate of the testator on the payment, among other
things, of a bond then executed by the purchaser for the payment of a
sum of money in 1862. One of the executors resided in Indiana, and continued to reside there dunng and after the close of the war. The other
received in Virginia m 1862 (by request of legatees under the will who accepted the same in payment of their distributive shares) payment of the
bond in Confederate money, and accounted for the same to the court
in 1864. In a suit commenced by the surviving executor against the executor of the obligor on the bond to recover payment of the bond: Held,
That the payment to the resident executor in Confederate currency was a
valid payment.

This was a bill in equity to set aside a deed made by Samuel
Lipse, executor of Moses LTpse, and to obtain payment of abond
executed by Glasgow's testator in his lifetime. The caseis stated
in the opinion of the court. For the understanding of the points
in the argument it is sufficient to say That Moses Lipse died
in Virginia before the war, leaving several children, among
whom were David H. ,Lipse, residing in Indiana, and Samuel
Lipse, residing in Virginia Also leaving real estate and a will'

