BOARDMAN v. TOFFEY.
,Syllabus.

ing, either statutory or at law or in equity, to bring in. by publication or other substituted service, non-resident defendants
interested in or having a lien upon property lying withih its
territorial jurisdiction, but is not required' to place the proof of
service upon the record, and the court orders such substituted
service, it will be presumed in favor of the jurisdiction that service was made as ordered, although no evidence thereof appears of record, and the judgment of the court, so far as it
affects such property, will be valid. The case of Galpin v.
Page, 18 Wall. 350, cited by counsel for defendant, is not in
conflict with this proposition. The judgment set up on one side
and attacked on the other in that case was rendered on service
by publication. The law permitted service to be made by publication only where certain facts were made to appear to the
satisfaction of the court, and the court by a precedent order,
which must necessarily appear of record, authorized service to
be made by publication. But the record showed no such
order, and the publication, therefore, was the unauthorized act
of the party, and appeared affirmatively to be invalid and ineffectual. See also Pennoyer v. Tef, 95 U. S. 714, 727, 734.
It results from the views we have expressed, that
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Jentudky must be
reversed and the cause remanded, wzth direct-tns to grant
a new trzal.

BOARDMAN v. TOFFEY
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued March 11, 1856.-Decided March 15, 186.

If the trial below is by the court without a jury, and the findings of facts are

general, only such rulings of the court in the progress of the trial can be
reviewed as are presented by a bill of exceptions.

The case is stated in the opimon of the court.

OCTOBER TERI, 1885.
Syllabus.

-Y1T James B. V'edenSurgA for plaintiff in error submitted
on his brief.
.lr Preston Stevenson for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WArITrE delivered the opinion of the
court.

This judgment is affirmed. The trial was by the court without a jury and there is no special finding of facts. The only
questions presented by the bill of exceptions which we can consider are those which relate to the refusal of the court to allow
certain interrogatories to be put to witnesses on the stand, and
in these we find no error. The general finding prevents all inquiry by us into the special facts and conclusions of law on
which that finding rests. .Norrs v Jackson, 9 Wall. 125,
Cooper v Omohundo, 19 Wall. 65, 69, .fartinton v. Farbanks, 112 U. S. 670, 673.
Ajfrmed.

JEFFERSOT, Trustee, v. DRIVER, Administrator, &
Another.
APPEA

FROM THE CIORUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN

DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

Submitted March 1, iS86.-Decided March 15, 15M.

A removal of a cause from a State court on the ground of local prejudice can
only be had where all the parties to the suit on one side are citizens of different States from those on the other.
The provision as to the removal of a separable controversy under the second
subdivision of Rev. Stat.
639 has no application to removals under the
third subdivision and the similar provision in the act of March 3, 1875,
applies only to removals under that act.
A purchaser pendente lite of real estate who becomes party to the suit is subject to the disabilities of the parties at the time he comes in, in respect of
removing the cause from a State court to a Circuit Court of the United
States.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

