OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

FERGUSON v. ARTHUR.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 'FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 24, 1886.-Decided April 5, 1886.

Under ,2504, Schedule M. of the Revised Statutes (p. 480, 2d ed.), "Henry's
Calcined Magnesia," imported in glass bottles, is liable to a duty of 50 per
cent. ad valorem, as being a medicinal preparation, recommended to the
public as a proprietary medicine, and not to a duty of 12 cents per pound,
as calcined magnesia, under the same section and schedule (p. 477).
0

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
.Ar Edwn B. Smith for plaintiff in error, cited Arthur v.
-Dames,96 U. S. 135, Arthar v Stepqkan?, 96 U. S.126, 2?ewhe
v. Smythe, 13 Wall. 162, .1towus v Arthur, 95 U. S.144, Arthur v. Rheims, 96 U. S. 143, Arthur v. Lahey, 96 U. S.112,
Arthur v. Zimmerman, 96 U. S.124:, Barber v. Schell, 107 U.
S.617, -Marvellv 3ferritt, 116 U S. 11, .Fiskv. Arthur, 103
U. S. 431, Solomon v. Arthur, 102 U S. 208, YTietor v Arthur,
104 U. S. 498, -rewman v Arthur, 109 U S. 132, -Drew v
Grinnell, 115 U S. 477, Smith v Field, 105 U. S. 52, Astor
v .ferrztt, 111 U- S. 202, Railroad Co. v Fraoff,100 U. S.24,
Arthur v Mtorgan,112 U. S.495, Schmidt v Badger,107 U. S.
85, Aferritt v Stephant, 108 U. S. 106, .Merrztt v Park, 108
U. S. 109, Trade -fark Cases, 100 U. S. 82, fanufactumrng Co.
v. Trainer,101 U S.51.
.2 Jr Asitant Attorney-General X aury for defendant in
error.
Mr. JUSTICE BLATCHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought by Walton Ferguson, in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, and removed into the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District of
New York, against the collector of the Port of New York, to

FERGUSON v. ARTHUR.
Opinion of the Court.

recover moneys paid under protest, in Tanuary, 1816, as duties
on an importation of "Henry's Calcined Magnesia," made by
said Ferguson, doing business as J & S. Ferguson. The collector exacted on the merchandise a duty of 50 per cent. ad talorem, under the following provision of the Revised Statutes,
ยง 2504, Schedule M. p. 480. 2d ed.
"Proprietary medicines Pills, powders, tinctures, troches or
lozenges, sirups, cordials, bitters, anodynes, tomes, plasters, liniments, salves, ointments, pastes, drops, waters, essences, spirits,
oils, or other medicinal preparations or compositions, recommended to the public as proprietary medicines, or prepared according to some private formula or secret art as remedies or
specifics for any disease or diseases or affections whatever affecting the human or animal body fifty per centum ad valorem."
The plaintiff contended that the article was dutiable at 12
cents per pound, under this provision of the same section and
Schedule (p. 477) "Magnesia, carbonate six cents per pound,
calcined, twelve cents per pound."
At the trial there was a verdict for the defendant, and he
had judgment, and the plaintiff has brought a writ of error.
The bill of exceptions contains the following statements
" The merchandise in question was Henry's calcined magnesia, prepared by Thomas and William Henry, manufacturing
chemists, of Manchester, England, and put up in ounce bottles,
in the glass of each bottle was blown the words 'Henry's Calcined Magnesia, Manchester,' and over one end of each bottle
,was pasted a-stamp, of which the following is a copy

14

Vaiue
above 1s.
not exceeding

Deerg

~Wl'

Thos. &
''"

lclanchester.

0

2-6.

"It also appeared in evidence that, accompanying each bottle
thereof, was a wrapper, that upon said wrapper was a circular,
that of the said labels the following are copies

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

'Henry's Calcined Magnesia.
Price 2s 9d. Stamp included.
'Cautfon.

'The purchasers of this article are requested to observe that
the words Thos. and William Henry, Manchester, are engraved
on the government stamp pasted over the cork of each bottle.
This is the only effectual security against the counterfeited imitations which are sold in bottles similarly moulded, under their
names. Trade-mark, ' Henry's Calcined Magnesia.'
I Caution.
'Messrs. Thos. & Win. Henry, of Manchester, have received
frequent complaints that their calcined magnesia is counterfeited in the United States, and having been furnished with
specimens of spurious and very inferior imitations there vended,
in bottles similarly moulded, and with forged stamps and bills
of direction, beg leave to caution the consumers of their magnesia in America to purchase it only of persons whose character
is such as to preclude their selling a spurious article knowing
it to be such.
'Druggists and storekeepers are informed that Messrs. J and
S. Ferguson, (late Ogden, Ferguson & Co.,) merchants, of New
York, are the sole wholesale agents authorized by Messrs.
Henry in the United States, and that the article may be constantly had of them genuine and on the best terms. Trademark, Henry's Calcined Magnesia.'
"That upon the first of the aforesaid labels was pasted a
stamp, that the following is a copy thereof
4.

4.
S . Inter. Rev.
Vignette.
Proprietary.
Four cents.

FERGUSON v. ARTHUR.
Opinion of the Court.

"That the following is a copy of the aforesaid circular
'Trade Mark
'Henry's Calcined Magnesia.
'Genuine Calcined Magnesia.
'Prepared by
'Thomas and William Henry,
'Manufacturing
'Chemists,
'East St. and St. Peters, Manchester,
'And sold wholesale by them, and in London by Bayley &
Company, Cockspur St., Barclay & Sons, Farmington St.,
Butler & Crispe, 4 Cheapside, Edwards, 157 Queen Victoria
street, F Newberry & Sons, 37 Newgate street, J Sanger &
Sons, 150 & 252 Oxford street, Sutton (late Dicey & Co.), 10
Bow Church Yard, and Savory & Moore, 143 New Bond street,
in bottles at 2s. 9d., or with ground stoppers at 4s. 6d., stamps
included, (the names of the preparers being engraved upon
each government stamp, pasted over the cork or stopper of
each bottle, which in British dominions, where the forgery of
the stamp is highly penal, isthe best security against counterfeits,) and retail by at least one agent in every country town.'
The circular went on to set forth the beneficial use of calcined magnesia in certain specified diseases, and in complaints
of children, and the dose required for children and for adults,
and wherein calcined magnesia is superior to common or uncalcined magnesia alba, and then proceeded "In consequence
of improvements which they have made in the manufacture of
calcined magnesia, Messrs. Henry are enabled to offer to the
public their preparation of this medicine, which has already
been honored with the approbation of some of the first chemists and physicians of the age, with increased confidence in its
superior quality The calcined magnesia prepared by them
will be found to be perfectly deprived of carbonic acid, free
from taste, smell, or other disagreeable property, and without
roughness or grittiness to the touch or the palate."
The bill of exceptions further says "Plaintiff's testimony
proved that all calcined magnesia is a well-known medicinal

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

preparation of magnesia, made from sulphate of magnesia, bicarbonate of soda, and calcined by heat. A formula for the
preparation is contained in the dispensatories, and first-class
chemists frequently prepare the article for their own use. The
article comes in bulk and is sold at $2.50 per pound. Henry's
calcined magnesia is universally known by that name, and has
a character of its own, distinct from ordinary calcined magnesia,
though it is used for the same purposes. It has been prepared
by the same family, a firm of manufacturing chemists in Manchester, England, for the last one hundred years, and has a
peculiar value in the market. It sells in this country, at wholesale, by the dozen, ounce bottles, for $8.50, and for twenty-seven
shillings in England, whereas Husband's preparation, the American preparation of the highest repute, sells at $3.00 or $3.50
per dozen. Henry's preparation has a peculiar reputation on
account of the nicety with which it is prepared. Whether it is
prepared according to the formula given in the dispensatory no
witness knew There was no dispute, upon the above facts, in
regard to the history of Henry's magnesia and its peculiar value
and reputation, and the form and style and representations under which it has been and is presented to the public."
At the close of the evidence on both sides, the defendant
moved the court to direct a verdict for him upon the ground
that the plaintiff had failed to show that his merchandise was
not "a proprietary medicine or medicinal preparation," within
the meaning of the above provision, under which the duty was
exacted. Before a ruling was made on that motion, the plaintiff requested the court to submit "the question of fact" to the
jury, on the ground that there was a substantial question of fact
which was in dispute. The court denied the plaintiff's request,
and he excepted. The court then directed the jury to find a
verdict for the defendant, on the ground that there was no material question of fact in dispute, and to such ruling the plaintiff excepted. The jury thereupon rendered a verdict for the
defendant.
That the article in question is a medicinal preparation. there
can be no doubt. The circular sets forth its virtues as a remedy
in disease, and calls it a " medicine."

FERGUSONq v. ARTHUR.
Opnion of the Court.

Is it recommended to the public as a proprietary medicine?
"Proprietary" is defined thus-in the Imperial Dictionary
"belonging to ownership, as, proprietary rights "-in Webster "belonging, or pertaining, to a proprietor;" "proprietor"
being defined, "one who has the legal right or exclusive title
to anything, whether in possession or not, an owner"-m Worcester" "relating to a certain owner or proprietor."
It is quite plain, we think, that Thomas and William Henry
recommended their calcined magnesia to the public as a
medicine m which they had a proprietary right, as owning all
that there was of good will and business reputation appurtenant
to the article resulting from its name and from what they stated
about its manufacture. They prepared it and put it up in glass
bottles, in each of which was blown the words "Henry's Calcined Magnesia, Manchester." Over one end of each bottle was
pasted an English revenue stamp, with their name on it. They
announced a property in the trade-mark, "Henry's Calcined
Magnesia." They called it "their calcined magnesia." They
announced J & S. Ferguson as their sole wholesale agents in
the United. States. They recommended the article as of
superior quality, because of improvements which they had
made in its manufacture, and stated, as a result of those improvements, that the article had no carbonic acid, no taste,
smell, or other disagreeable property, and no roughness or
grittiness to the touch or palate. To complete this proprietary
character, they put on each bottle a four cent United States
internal revenue proprietary stamp. Although it appeared at
the trial, that all calcined magnesia "is a well-known medicinal
preparation of magnesia, made from sulphate of magnesia, bicarbonate of soda, and calcined by heat," and that a formula
for the preparation was contained in the dispensatories, it did not
appear that Henry's preparation was made according to that
formula, while it did appear that it was. universally known
by the name of "Henry's Calcined Magnesia," and had a character of its own, distinct from ordinary calcined magnesia,
though used for the same purposes, and that it had been prepared by the same family at Manchester for 100 years, and had
a peculiar reputation on account of the nicety with which it

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

was prepared, and a peculiar value m the market, shown by
the price it commanded.
We cannot doubt that this was an article recommended to
the public as a proprietary medicine, within the statute. It
may fall within that clause, without being prepared according
to some private formula or secret art, as a remedy for disease.
The statute is in the alternative.
A reference to the internal revenue law, Schedule A to ยง 3419
Rev. Stat., p. 678, 2d. ed., shows the sense in which Congress
It imposed internal revenue
used the word "proprietary"
taxes on medicinal preparations, where the person making or
preparing them (1) had or claimed a private formula or secret
or art, (2) had or claimed an exclusive right or title to the
making or preparing them, (3) made .or sold them under
a patent, (4) recommended them to the public as proprietary
medicines, or as remedies for disease. Thus a medicinal preparation might be proprietary, without being made by a private
formula, or under an exclusive right claimed to the making or
preparing it, or under a patent. These internal revenue provisions had their inception in the act of July 1, 1862, ch.
119, 12 Stat. 484, while both of the customs provisions above
cited are first found in the act of July 14, 1862, ch. 163, 12
Stat. 548, 549. The word "proprietary," as applied to a medicinal preparation, in the revenue laws, had its origin then.
The plaintiff contends that, because a duty of so much a
pound is laid on calcined magnesia by that specific name, this
Henry's calcined magnesia, imported in bottles and sold by
the bottle by that name, cannot be dutiable under the general
designation of a proprietary medicine. But this article is not,
and does not purport to be, the calcined magnesia dutiable at
12 cents a pound. By the mode of manufacture used, the
carbonic acid is eliminated, the taste and smell are destroyed,
other disagreeable qualities are removed, and all grittiness is
got rid of. It "has a character of its own, distinct from ordinary calcined magnesia," as the bill of exceptions states, which
must arise from the special mode of manufacture. The "ordinary calcined magnesia" is that sold in bulk and by the
pound, and dutiable at 12 cents a pound. It was undoubtedly

FERGUSOIN v. ARTHUR.
Opinion of the Court.

to reach just such medicinal preparations as this-the monopoly
of a particular person, commanding a price due to a special
mode of manufacture, sold in bottles, having a name attached
identifying the manufacturer as the proprietor of all that imparted the special merit and produced the special price-that
the special revenue tax was laid.
The duty by the pound on calcined magnesia, and the ad
valorem duty on proprietary medicines, starting together, as
they did, in the act of July 14, 1862, and continued in the
same language in the Revised Statutes, and reproduced in the
act of March 3,1883, ch. 121 (22 Stat. 493, 494), with the duty
on calcined magnesia put at 10 cents per pound, and the word
"proprietary" extended to all proprietary articles, and notconfined to proprietary medicines, the principle of the cases
cited for the plaintiff does not apply
In omer v.The Collector, 1 Wall. 486, "almonds" had been
dutiable eo nommne almost immemorially, and an ad valorem
duty was imposed on them, as "almonds," in the act of 1846,
and it was held that, under the act of 1857, they were not subject to a less duty, as "fruits, green, ripe and dried."
In .fNovus v Arthur, 95 'U S. 144, "patent leather" was
dutiable by that name, in the acts of 1861 and 1862. The act
of 1872 imposed a less duty on "skins dressed and finished, of
all kinds." It was held that the old duty on patent leather
continued, because, though it was a finished skin, something
was done to it after it could be called a finished skin to make
patent leather of it. In the case at bar, Henry's article isnot
the ordinary calcined magnesia, dutiable by the pound, but
something is done to that ordinary calcined magnesia by the
Henrys which, in connection with the manner in which it is
put up and sent forth, makes it a proprietary medicine, although
the base of it is magnesia, calcined.
In Arthur v Stephant, 96 U. S.125, "confectionery" was,
by the act of 1864, dutiable at 50 cents a pound, and by the
act of 1872 a duty of 5 cents a pound was laid on "chocolate."
It was held that an article which was simply chocolate was
dutiable as "chocolate" and not as "confectionery "
A like case is that of Arthur v. Rhems, 96 U. S.143, where

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

"artificial flowers," an article made of cotton, being dutiable
by that name in the act of 1864, it was held that they were
not dutiable at a less rate, by the imposition of a less duty on
manufactures of cotton, in the act of 1872.
There was no question of fact for the -jury, and it was proper
for the court to direct a verdict for the defendant. Improvement Co. v 3funson, 14 Wall. 442, Pleasantsv _Pant, 22 Wall.
116, Herbert v Butler, 97 U S. 319, Bowditch v. Boston, 101
U. S. 16, Griggs v Houston, 104 U. S. 553, Randall v Baltmare & Ohio Railroad Co., 109 U. S. 478, Anderson County
Commisswners v Beal, 113 U. S. 227, Baylis v Travellers'
Ins. Co., 113 U. S. 316, Schofteld v. Chwago, .3lilwacukee & St.
Paul Railway Co., 114 U. S. 615.
Judgment afirmed.

DI-GLEY & Another v. OLER & Another.
OLER & Another

ERROR

v.
DINGLEY & Another.

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF MAINE.
Argued March 8, 9, 18S.-Decided April 5, 1886.

D, a dealer in ice, finding himself late in the season of 1879 m possession of a
large quantity, which threatened to become a total loss, pressed 0, another
dealer, to buy a part of it. 0 declined to purchase, but offered to take a cargo
and "return the same to you next year from our houses." D accepted O's offer, and delivered the cargo of ice to him that season. Early in July of the
season of 1880 D verbally requested 0 to deliver the ice. On the 7th of July
0 wrote to D "It is not just or equitable for you to expect us to give
you ice now worth $5.00 per ton when we have letters of yours offenng the
ice that we got at fifty cents per ton. We must therefore decline to ship
the ice for you this season, and claim as our right to pay you for the ice in
cash at the price you offered it to other parties here, or give you ice when
the market reaches that point." D answered by letter, dated July 10th,
that he had sold the ice in advance in expectation of its delivery to him,
and it did not seem to him right that 0 should ask for a postponement in
the delivery. To this 0 answered on the 15th of July by letter, in which,
after restating facts which made the demand in his opinion inequitable, he

