OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

SIOUX CITY & ST. PAUL RAILROAD COMPANY
& Others v. CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL
RAILWAY COMPANY.
CHICAGO, MILWAUKEE & ST. PAUL RAILWAY
COMPANY v. SIOUX CITY & ST. PAUL RAILROAD COMPANY & Others.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued March 16, 188.-Decided March 29, 188.

The title of the railroad companies within the ten-mile limit to lands granted
by Congress to Iowa by the act of May 12, 1864, 13 Stat. 72, relates back to
the date of the grant, and where two roads cross each other they take such
granted lands in equal moieties but the title to indemnity or lieu lands
outside that limit is acqmred by priority of selection, approved by the Secretary of the Interior.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
3fr John 1W Cary for the Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway Company
.Xr John C. 8pooner and .AE' J C. Swan for the Sioux City
& St. Paul Railroad Company & Others submitted on their
brief.
JUSTICE MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
These are cross-appeals from a decree of the Circuit Court
for the District of Iowa.
In that court the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
Company brought its bill in chancery on the 4th day of March,
1879, against the Sioux City and St. Paul Railroad Company,
which in due time was answered.
The subject of contest in this suit was the right to certain
lands granted by Congress to the State of Iowa to aid in building two railroads, whose right to the lands became vested in
one or both of these companies, however named originally
The grant of the lands was by a single statute, and was to the

Mr.

SIOUX CITY RAILROAD v. CHICAGO RAILWAY. 407
Opinion of the Court.
State as a trust for the construction of two roads which necessarily crossed each other, and by the act of Congress the place
of crossing was to be in O'Brien County The act granted for
the aid of each road every alternate section of land designated
by odd numbers for ten sections in width on each side of said
roads, and in the event that any of these odd sections had, when
the lines of the roads were definitely located, been sold or
otherwise disposed of, the usual grant of lands in lieu of them
should, by the Secretary of the Interior, be caused to be selected,
provided they were in no case to be located more than twenty
miles from the lines of the roads. 13 Stat. '72, ch. 84.
The roads to be benefited by-this grant have both been completed, and both companies are entitled to the odd sections
within ten miles of their lines of road, and to the indemnity
lands, so far as they can be found of odd numbers within twenty
miles. But as the roads cross each other these limits also cross
and overlap, and the claims to the odd sections within those
limits necessarily conflict. This presents questions which, at
the time the suit was brought, were important, because the
value of the land in controversy is large, and because many
other land grants to railroad companies presented the same difficulty But during the pendency of this suit in the Circuit
Court, and on appeal here, all these questions have, it is believed,
been decided by this court, so that nothing remains but to apply
the principles of these decisions to the admitted facts of this
case. Cedar ]ap dg Co. v Herrng, 110 U S. 27, .ansas
Paczj* Co. v. Atclzon, Topeka & Santa.F Co., 112 U. S. 414,
Sioux City & St. Paul Co. v Winona Co., 112 U. S. 720.
1. It was claimed by the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul
Company, which, for brevity, will be called the Milwaukee Company, that, by reason of the prior location of the line of its road
through the lands where the crossing finally took place, they
acquired a priority for their entire claim to the exclusion of the
other company within the limits of the lap. That is, that when
their line was definitely located they became immediately entitled to every odd section within ten miles of the road and to
the paramount right of selection of indemnity lands within
twenty miles.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

2. The Sioux City road asserted, by virtue of the fact of the
pmor construct'on of their road through the overlapping lines
of the grant, that they had secured the paramount right which
the other company claimed by reason of prior location.
Both these contentions are wrong. The title acquired from
the United States relates back to the date of the grant, and
neither company can obtain any superiority of title by any act
done by it or by any omission to act by the other, provided
there is no forfeiture of the grant. This principle is fully decided in the case of Siouz City & St. Paul Railroad Co. v.
IVinonac St. Peter Railroad Co., 112 U. S. 720. In such
case the companies take the lands coming within the conflicting lines in equal undivided moieties.
In the opinion above referred to it was held that, while this
rule applied to what are called lands in place, that is, those
odd sections found within the ten-mile limit of the road, as
those ten miles conflicted with each other, it did not apply to
lieu lands or indemnity lands which were to be selected outside
of the ten-mile limit. The reason of this was said to be that,
with regard to the odd sections found within the original limits
of the grant undisposed of when the line. of the road was definitelylocated,.tbat location ascertained the sections which passed
by the grant and fixed the right to such sections, whether it
was the whole or the moiety of them.
But no title to indemnity lands was vested until a selection
was made by which they were pointed out and ascertained,
and the selection made approved by the Secretary of the Intenor. In a case, therefore, where two companies had this right
of selection within the same limits, priority of title might be
created by priority of selection, or some other mode than location of the road or priority of construction.
The Circuit Court, in its decree, disregarded this distinction
between lands found in place within ten miles of each road
and those within the indemnity limits, and applied the tenancy
in common principle to the lands claimed as indemnity for
others not found within the ten miles, as well as to those found
within those limits and not sold or disposed of.
It appears from the record in this case, that there are within

SIOUX CITY RAILROAD v. CHICAGO RAILWAY.

409

Opinion of the Court.

the lap of the twenty mile limits of both roads, subject to the
grants to these roads, both for lands in place and for lieu or
indemnity lands, 189,595%- acres which constituted the subject matter of this controversy
1. Of these, 63,7964 acres are within the ten mile limit of
the Sioux City road, and not within the ten mile limit of the
Milwaukee road, though they are within its twenty mile limit.
The result of the rule on which the Circuit Court acted was to
divide, these lands equally between the two companies.
But the principles we have stated, and whichwere fully considered in 11 St.DPaul Comipany v. The linona.Company,'
exclude the Milwaukee Company in this case from invading
the ten mile limit of the Sioux City road to seek indemnity for
losses by reason of lands within its own ten mile limit previously disposed of. This 63,796-f% acres being odd sections
within the ten mile limit of the Sioux City road, and not within
the ten mile limit of the Milwaukee road, belonged exclusively
to the former, and the latter company had no interest in them.
The decree is in that respect erroneous and must be reversed,
and all these lands given to the Sioux City Company
2. Of the lands in controversy there were 3 3 , 0 7 1 -h acres
within the ten mile limit of the Milwaukee road, and not within
the ten mile limit of the Sioux City road, but within its twenty
mile limit, which, according to the ruling of the Circuit Court,
were equally divided between the two companies. For the
same reasons which govern with regard to the 63,'796v acres
just disposed of, this part of the decree must be reversed and
these 33,07 1- - 0 acres given to the Milwaukee Company
3. Of the lands in controversy there were 50,539-W acres
within the ten mile limits of both roads. This the decree of
the Circuit Court held to belong to the companies in equal
undivided moieties, and appointed commissioners to make partition of them. This part of the decree was upon the principles
we have stated correct, and must be affirmed.
4. There remains to be considered 42,188-- acres found to
be within the-twenty mile or indemnity limit of both roads, and
not within the ten mile or absolute grant limit of either road.
As these lands are within the category of those to which no

OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

title accrued until a selection of them was made for one road
or the other, there might arise some difficulty about priority
of right between the two companies. But we are of opinion
that the circumstances in which the title to these lands has
been placed by the action of the State of Iowa, which was a
trustee in the matter for both parties, and of the Commissioner
of the General Land Office, the decree of the court dividing
these lands equally between the parties was just.
So far as any selection was made of these lands it was by
the State of Iowa, and the legal title was conveyed to her.
Though they were certified to her by the Secretary of the Interior for the benefit of the Sioux City Company, and though
the State conveyed them to that company, it is obvious that
both the Secretary of the Interior and the Governor of Iowa
acted under the mistaken idea that the earlier construction of
its road or its earlier location by the Sioux City Company
gave it a priority of right in these indemnity lands, and as
there was not enough to satisfy the demands of both companies, nor, indeed, of either of them,. they, for that reason,
conveyed them all to the Sioux City Company We think the
action of the Secretary of the Interior, and of the Governor of
Iowa, under this mistake of law and of their powers, and
especially the Governor of Iowa, the common trustee of both
these companies, cannot have the effect of destroying the
rights of the parties. There was in fact no selection. All
were wrongfully conveyed to the Sioux City Company
That part of the decree, therefore, which divides these lands
equally and directs the coimmssioners to make partition of
them is also affirmed.
As both parties appealed from the decree of the Circuit
Court, and as each of them has succeeded in obtamning a
reversal of an importantpart of the decree, the costs of the
appeal will be equally divzded between them, and the case
remanded to the Circuit Court, with instructionto render
a decree 'n conformity with thts opimon.

