LITTLEFIELD v. IMPROVEMENT FUND TRUSTEES. 4-19
Opinion of- the Court.

Giving the defendant the benefit of every inference that
could have been fairly drawn from the evidence, written and
oral, it was insufficient to authorize a verdict in his favor.
Such being the case, a peremptory instruction for the plaintiff
was proper. Pleasantsv. Fant, 22 Wall. 116, 143, .Montclatr
v. Dana, 107 U. S. 162, Randall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, 109 U. S. 478, 483, Anderson County v. Beal, 113 U.
S. 227, 2-11, Baylis v. Travellers' Ins. Co., 113 U. S. 316, 320.
The judgment is

Affirmed.
LITTLEFIELD v. TRUSTEES OF THE INTERNAL
IMPROVEMENT FUND OF FLORIDA.
REED v. SAME.
A.PPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF FLORIDA.
Argued March 9, 10, 1886.-Decided March 29,1886.

On the facts Held, That the bonds in controversy should-be surrendered to
the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund of the State of Florida,
and should be applied by them m accordance with the prayer of their
,answer.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

.A& Horatio Bzsbee, Jr., for appellant Littlefield.
.Afr J Augustus Johnson and Mr John A. Henderson for
appellant Reed submitted on their brief.
.2f Wayne .Aeoleagh fox appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIOE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These appeals relate to the ownership of $103,000 in amount
of certain bonds of the Pensacola and Georgia Railroad Coin-

OCTOBER TERMN,

1885.

Opimon of the Court.

pany and the Tallahassee Railroad Company For convenience
they will be hereinafter referred to as "one hundred and three
bonds." Many of the matters involved were under consideration by this court in State of Flormda v Anderson, 91 U. S.
667, and Railroad Com-pantes v Schutte, 103 T. S. 118, to
which reference is made for a general history of the transactions out of which the present controversy arose.
The facts on which the rights of these parties depend we
find to be as follows
The railroads of the two companies above named were sold
by the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund of the State
of Florida on the 20th of March, 1869, under the provisions of
the internal improvement act of Florida, passed January 6,
1855, to pay certain bonds, of which those now in dispute are
a part. A statement of the provisions of this act will be found
in the report of the case of the State of Floridav. Anderson,
beginning at page 670. A conveyance of the railroads to the
purchasers at the sales was obtained, to use the language of
the counsel for the appellant in Littlefield's case, "through a
well planned and cleverly executed fraud," without the payment of about $472,000 of the purchase money This sum
represented an equal amount of bonds outstanding, which included the one hundred and three now in question. A history
of the facts connected with this transaction will be found in
the report of RailroadCompanses v Schutte, beginning at page
121. George W Swepson was under obligations to pay what
remained due on the purchase money, or, which is the same
thing, to get up and surrender to the Trustees of the Internal
Improvement Fund the outstanding bonds for cancellation.
On the 24th of June, 1869, an act was passed by the general
assembly of Florida by which George W Swepson, Milton S.
Littlefield, and their associates, were incorporated under the
name of the Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Railroad Company The important provisions of the charter of this' company will be found in the report of the Schulte Case at page
123, and following. Afterwards the title to the two railroads
which had been purchased was transferred to the corporation
thus created. On or before the 10th of November, 1869, Mil-

LITTLEFIELD v. IMPROVEMENT FUND TRUSTEES. 421
Opinion of the Court.

ton S. Littlefield succeeded to all the rights of George W
Swepson in the premises, and became bound to take up and
surrender the outstanding bonds, or pay the balance due on
the purchase money in cash.
On the 2d of August, 1869, drafts were drawn by George
W Swepson on and accepted by Milton S. Littlefield, in favor
of Edward Houston, for $109,140. These drafts grew out of
transactions between the parties relative to the Jacksonville,
Pensacola and Mobile Railroad Company and the Florida
Central Railroad Company, and in some way Houston held
one hundred and ten of the bonds of the Pensacola and
Georgia Railroad Company and Tallahassee Railroad Company
as collateral security. These bonds were part of those outstanding which Swepson was bound to take up and surrender,
and they included the one hundred and three now involved.
The drafts were likewise among the obligations which Littlefield assumed to pay when, in ovember following, he took
Swepson's place in these transactions.
On the 13th of May, 1870, Littlefield entered into a contract
with Houston, by which he bought the drafts above mentioned, and certain shares of the stock of the Florida Central
Railroad Company, and .gave his draft for $163,020.70 on S.
W Hopkins & Co., the financial agents of the Jacksonville,
Pensacola and Mobile Company, therefor. Under this contract Houston was to hold the one hundred and ten bonds as
collateral for the draft then given, and to deliver them to
Littlefield when this draft was paid. Various other contracts
were afterwards made between Littlefield and Houston which
looked to a payment of the draft through the securities of the
Florida Central Railroad Company, but no payment was in
fact made before June 8, 1870, when Littlefield, as president
of the Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Company, was in
negotiation with Harrison Reed, governor of Florida, for an exchange of the bonds of the company for those of the State, under
the provisions of the charter. In the progress of these negotiations it was found that the unpaid purchase money stood in the
way of the exchange, and thereupon Littlefield, still acting as
president of the company, addressed a letter to the governor,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

who was also ex ofioo one of the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund, a copy of which is as follows
" TALLAHAssiE, Fi&., June 8, 1870.
"Hon. Harrison Reed, Gov State of Florida.
"Srx I have the honor to state that in addition to the bonds
of the Pen. & Geo. and Tallahassee Railroad Companies already deposited with the Board of Trustees Int. Imp. Fund, I
have at the railroad office $41,350.
Bro't over
$41,350
And have secured.
$110,000
"9
"70,000
15,000
195,000
$236,350
Total outstanding.
Respectfully,

$227,250
ii. S.

LrrLEFIELD,

Pres't J., P & X II. L. Co."
The $110,000 bonds here referred to were those held under
the contracts between Littlefield and Houston. After this
letter Littlefield delivered to the governor a draft of which the
following is a copy
"$227,250.
TALLAHASSEE, Jne
8, 1870.
"On demand, when in funds, pay to the order of his Excellency, Harrison Reed, Gov., two hundred and twenty-seven
thousand two hundred and fifty dollars, value received, and
charge the same to account ofM. S. LirrLEFrELD,

"Pes't J., P & X. 1. R. Co.
"To Messrs. S. W Hoplns & Co., 71 Broadway, N. Y"
This draft was never paid, but on its delivery the exchange
of bonds of the State for those of the company was made by
the governor, acting for the State, and by Littlefield, acting

LITTLEFIELD v..IMPROVEMENT FUND TRUSTEES. 423

Opinon of the Court.
for the railroad company Out of this exchange the suits of'
the State of -Florzdav. Andmson and Railroad Companes v.
Schutte arose, as well as much other litigation in the courts of
the State and of the United States.
After the delivery of the State bonds to Littlefield the draft
of $163,020.70 held by Houston was paid by Hopkins & Co.
out of the proceeds of the sale of these bonds, or upon their
security, and on the 12th of April, 1871, an agreement was
made between Houston and S. W Hopkins & Co., the drawees,
by which the one hundred and three bonds in question were
deposited with Mariano D. Papy, to be held by him and not
delivered to any person unless directed to do so by Mvf.S. Littlefield and S. W Hopkins & Co. jointly, or unless directed
to be delivered to Littlefield by Hopkins & Co., or to Hopkins
& Co. by Littlefield. It was also further agreed that there
should be no delivery to Littlefield until certain suits -which
had been'begun against Houston, and which were particularly
described, had been dismissed. On the 14th of June, 1872,
Papy was directed by Hopkins to deliver the bonds to Littlefield on the dismissal of the suits. It was stipulated at the
hearing of the present case below that these suits had then
been dismissed, but at what precise time does not appear.
On the 17th of July, "1872, Edward C. Anderson, Jr., and
others, holders of some of the $472,000 of unpaid bonds, began
a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern
District of Florida, for themselves and all other holders of like
bonds who might choose to become parties plaintiff, on the
usual terms, against the Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile
Railroad Company and others, including Milton S. Littlefield
and the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund, to subSect the railroad of the railroad company, defendant, to the
payment of their bonds. On the same day the one hundred
and three bonds in the hands of Papy were by him delivered,
under an order of the Superior Court of Chatham County,
Georgia, to "T. Mayhew Cunningham, cashier of the Central
Railroad and Banking Company of Georgia, to be by him deposited in the vault of the said bank, and there to be safely
kept subject to the further order of the court." Afterwards,

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

in April, 1873, they were deposited by Cunningham with the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Northern District
of Florida, subject to the orders of that court in the Anderson

suit, where they have ever since remained.
On the 18th of June, 1875, the following order in reference
to these bonds was entered in the Anderson suit
"It is further ordered, that the said master shall give imme-

diate notice through the public gazettes heretofore used by him
for such purpose to all parties who may claim an interest, di-

rect or indirect, in the bonds which have been deposited with
him by T. Mayhew Cunningham, trustee, that he hold said
bonds in his custody subject to the final order of this court,
that the said bonds are claimed by the Trustees of the Internal
Improvement Fund as having been purchased from Edward
Houston by the Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Railroad
Company, under agreement with said trustees, for the purpose
of cancellation, that upon petition filed with him, the said
master, and ten days' notice to the said trustees, and at any
time before the first day of the next term of the court, he will
take testimony touching the claim or interest or title of any
such petitioner upon or to the said bonds, or any part thereof,
and that unless petition be filed in accordance with this order,
all right, title and interest of any such person to or in the said
bonds would be forever adjudged to be barred."
The notice required by this order was duly given, and on the
13th of July, 1876. the Trustees of the Internal Improvement
Fund filed their petition in the master's office, asking that the
bonds be delivered to them, claiming title under the transaction
between Littlefiqld and the governor on the 8th of June, 1870,
at the time of the exchange of bonds, and also under a decree
of the Circuit Court of Duval County, Florida, on the 20th of
August, 1875, in a suit brought by them on the 20th of March,
1872, against the Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Railroad
Company, Milton S. Littlefield and others, in which their right
to the bonds under their claim was fully established as against
all the parties to that suit. Calvin Littlefield was, however,
not a party
On the 18th of March, 1872, John H=. Miller began a suit

LITTLEFIELD v. IMPROVEMENT FUND TRUSTEES. 425
Opimon of the Court.

against Milton S. Littlefield in the Circuit Court of' Duval
County, Florida, to recover a debt of $50,000.

In this suit a

judgment was rendered April 18, 1872, for $50,708, and on the
15th of November, 1872, Miller filed a creditor's bill in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the Norther District of
Florida to subject the one hundred and three bonds to the payment of the judgment as the property of Milton S. Littlefield.
Under this bill a decree was rendered December 2, 1873, directing a sale of the bonds for that purpose. Afterwards, on
the 5th of August, 1875, the bonds were sold to Robert J Washington, whereupon he appeared in the Anderson suit and asked
leave to defend his interest and title. Washington afterwards,
on the 22d of December, 1881, assigned his interest in the bonds
to Edward J Reed.
On the 23d of May, 1877, J. Fred. Schutte and others, holders of State bonds given in exchange for the bonds of the
Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Railroad Company, brought
a suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Northera District of Florida for the foreclosure of the statutory lien
of the State as security for the bonds of the railroad company
given in exchange for those of the State. In the bill it was
claimed, among other things, that this lien of the State was
superior to that of the Trustees of the Internal Improvement
Fund for the balance of the original purchase money, and as
to the one hundred and three bonds the following averment
was made
"Complainants are informed and believe that said defendant,
Milton S. Littlefield, made some agreement with said George
W Swepson to perform the obligations which the latter undertook with said trustees to do, viz., to purchase said linpaid
Pensacola and Georgia and Tallahassee Railroad Companies'
bonds, that said Littlefield did in fact purchase of said Edward Houston one hundred and three of said bonds in performance of such contract, which bonds are now deposited in
the registry of thfs court to the credit of a cause therein pending, in which Edward C. Anderson et al. are plaintiffs and the
Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Company et al. are defendants, that said bonds are claimed by divers persons under some

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

contract with said Littlefield, which persons had full knowledge
that said bonds were paid for out of the money for which the
bonds issued by Governor IReed to the said Jacksonville, Pensacola and Mobile Company were sold as before set forth, [and
that] said on hundred and three bonds have never been in the
actual possession of said Littlefield. Complainants are advised
that they should be delivered to said Trustees of the Internal
Improvement Fund, and they should take such proceedings as
may be necessary to procure the same to be done."
On the 31st of May, 18'19, a decree was entered in the cause

declaring that the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund
had a first lien on the property of the Jacksonville, Pensacola
and Mobile Company "to secure the payment to said trustees
of the sum of $463,175.21, and interest thereon since March
20, 1869, at the rate of eight per cent. per annum," and directing a sale for the benefit of the Schutte bondholders, subject
to this prior lien. This prior lien was on account of the unpaid purchase money at the original sale, and the amount
found due included the one hundred and three bonds, but
there was no express adjudication as to the ownership of these
bonds, or as to the right of the railroad company or of the
Schutto bondholders to have them applied towards the satisfaction of the debt to the trustees. From this decree the
Schutte bondholders did not appeal, but on appeals by some
of the other parties to the suit the decree was affirmed by this
court January 17, 1881, Jailroad Companes v. Sc u te, and
under its authority the road was afterwards sold.
On the 14th of February, 1882, Calvin Littlefield filed in the
Anderson suit a petition to have the one hundred and three
bonds delivered to him, and in his petition he stated that the
Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund and Edward
J Reed also claimed an interest. As to his own title, he
stated that, on the 13th of July, 1871, Milton S. Littlefield
assigned the bonds "in possession and control of M. D.
Papy" to him as security for the payment of a debt of $50,000,
and that on the 11th of January, 1872, this assignment was
made absolute "that the expenses of a- foreclosure may be
avoided."

LITTLEFIELD v..IMPROVEMENT FUND TRUSTEES. 427Opinion of the Court.

The evidence shows that while the suit of .Millerv. .ittlefd-d,
above referred to, was pending, and -ander which the bonds
were sold to Washington, these title papers of Calvin Littlefield were sent by him to X J. Finlay, an attorney-at-law at
Jacksonville, Florida, for some purpose, and that under date
of December 24, 1873, Finlay wrote a letter to Littlefield which
contained the following
"As General Littlefield had not yet been examined before
the master in chancery in the matter of the creditor's bill,
about which I wrote you in my last, the agreement above mentioned reached me in time to enable him to answer more fully
and satisfactorily as to the ownership of the stocks and bonds
mentioned in said agreement. He will answer that these securities belong to you and not to him. I am of the opinion that
you are the bona fide owner of these securities under and by
virtue of said agreement, and that any decree made in the case
of .Millerv. .. S.Ziltleftld is not binding on you, for the rea-'
son that you were not, and are not, a party to said suit. For
the present, therefore, I do not see that it as necessary to take
any step or incur the expense of any independent proceeding
in the matter. As things progress, however, if it should become important for the protection of your interests to institute
proceedings it can be done."
It does not appear that Calvin Littlefield gave any notice of
this assignment to Papy while the bonds were in his hands. or
to any one else claiming an adverse interest prior to the filing
of his petition.
Edward J Reed answered the petition, setting up his title
as the assignee of Washington, and asking that the bonds be
delivered to him. The Trustees of the Internal Improvement
Fund also answered, setting up their title, and asking that the
bonds be surrendered to them and credited on the decree in
the Schutte case "as of and for the amount due on said bonds,
principal and interest, on the 12th of April, 1871."
The Circuit Court, on the 23d of June, 1882, decreed that
the bonds be surrendered to the Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund, and applied in accordance with the prayer of
their answer. From this decree Calvin Littlefield and Edward,

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Opunon of the Court.

J Reed took appeals, which have been docketed here as separate causes.
Upon the facts found, and about which there is substantially
no dispute, we have no hesitation in affirming the action of the
Circuit Court. Although the contracts under which the bonds
passed from the hands of Houston to Papy, and from Papy to
the Circuit Court in the Anderson suit, were in the name of
Milton S. Littlefield, all payments for the bonds after June 8,
1870, were made from the funds of the Jacksonville, Pensacola
and Mobile Company What was done by Littlefield, at the
time of the exchange of bonds with the governor, had the
effect of transferrmg the one hundred and three bonds to the
Trustees of the Internal Improvement Fund, subject to the lien
of Houston as security for his draft of $163,020.70. When
that draft was paid and the lien satisfied, the equitable title of
the trustees was perfected, and thereafter the bonds were held
by Papy, and his successors in possession, for them. It follows
that, at the time Littlefield undertook to transfer the bonds to
Calvin Littlefield, he had nothing to transfer. All his interest
had long before been passed to the trustees. Neither does
Calvin Littlefield occupy the position of a purchaser without
notice of the prior claim of the trustees, because when be took
his title the bonds were in the possession of Papy, who was in
legal effect trustee for whom it might concern.
The same is true of the claim under which Edward J. Reed
holds. When the bill was filed by Miller to subject the bonds
to the payment of his judgment against Littlefield, they belonged to the trustees and not to Littlefield, and consequently
nothing passed by the sale in that suit.
It is contended, however, that, as the trustees "insisted in
the Schutte case on a lien for the full amount of the unpaad
purchase money which was decreed to them, and that the
one hundred and three bonds were outstanding," they "are
estopped now from claiming that these one hundred and
three bonds should be delivered to them and cancelled, and
a credit given therefor on such decree." This it is claimed
amounted to an abandonment by the trustees of their title
to the bonds under the arrangement between Littlefield and

LITTLEFIELD v. IMPROVEMENT FUND TRUSTEES. 429
Opinon of the Court.
the governor, which enured to the benefit of Milton S. Littlefield or his assigns. To this we cannot agree. No issue was
made -in that suit as to the actual ownership of the bonds.
The Trustees of the Improvement Fund did not claim that
they were not entitled to the bonds, nor that the amount due
on them should not be credited on the account for unpaid purchase mopey if their title should be established, but that until
it was established no such credit should be given. Neither did
the Schutte bondholders claim that the credit should be given
at once, but that the necessary proceedings be had to establish
the title and thus secure the application. When the decree
was rendered the title had not been settled, and so no credit
was then allowed, but nothing was done to prevent the trustees from making good their claim then pending in the Anderson suit, and, if successful, from giving the proper credit on
the decree. That is what they are seeking to do here. Havmg presented their petition for a delivery of the bonds, they
were met by the counter petitions of Calvin Littlefield and
Reed, and thus the rights of all the parties have been presented for final adjudication. The question involved is not one
of security but of title. The bonds are held by the court for
whom it may concern, and the point to be settled is to whom
shall they be delivered. Aside from the claim of abandonment put forth by Calvin Littlefield, they belong, as we have
seen, to the Trustees of the Improvement Fund, as Milton S.
Littlefield, the common source of title, first conveyed to them.
It is conceded that the trustees have never actually reconveyed
to Milton S. Littlefield, neither have they executed any formal
conveyance or release to Calvin Littlefield. All they have
done is to take a decree in their favor for what would be due
them if their title should fail, and this, while a suit was pending to establish that title. Other parties were foreclosing a
mortgage junior to theirs, and it became necessary to fix the
amount of their prior lien. This the other parties were willing
should be done before their disputed title was settled, and so
to save themselves from loss in case of defeat they took a decree for what would be their due in that event. To that the
junior mortgagees did not object. Their effort had been to

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

defeat the prior lien altogether. Having failed in that, they
were willing to submit to a decree for the larger amount, leaving the disputed question as to the one hundred and three
bonds to be settled afterwards in the proceeding that had been
begun for that purpose, or any other that might be instituted.
This was not an abandonment by either party The decree
was silent as to these bonds, and the petition for their delivery to the trustees on file in the Anderson suit, where the
bonds were, was allowed to remain. It is now being prosecuted by the trustees as a mode of obtaining satisfaction of the
decree in their favor. If they succeed it may enure to the
benefit of the purchasers at the sale under the Sehutte decree,
but of this Calvin Littlefield has no right to complain. If he
did not own the bonds it is a matter of no importance to him
what disposition the trustees may make of them. All his
rights depend alone on his ownership. If he is not the owner
he is entirely out of all the litigation between the rest of the
parties. Neither the railroad company nor the Schutte bondholders, who are alone interested in the amount for which the
sale was made, are here to complain. The trustees alone can
control the bonds. Having protected all who had the right to
look to the original unpaid purchase money for the satisfaction
of their bonds, they have performed their whole duty as trustees, so far as the bondholders are concerned.
The decree of the Circuit Court ts a rrned.

STONE v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
Argued Mareh 5, 1886-Decided April 5, 1MS.

A State court is not bound to surrender its jurisdiction of a suit on petition for
removal, until a case has been made which on its face shows that the petitioner has a right to the transfer- and if it decides against the removal and
proceeds with the cause, its ruling is reviewable here after final judgment.
All issues of fact made upon a petition for removal must be tried in the Circuit Court.

