COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

COFFEY ,. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

PETITION FOR REHEARING.

Petition received March 1,186.--Decided March 15, 1886.

The pleadings in a suit n rem brought by the United States, in a Circuit Court
of the United States in Kentucky, for the forfeiture of property after its
seizure for the violation of the internal revenue laws, are not required by
section 914 of the Revised Statutes, to be governed by the statute of Kentucky in regard to pleadings in civil actions, but are to be, as before the
enactment of section 914, according to the course m Admiralty.

This was a petition for a rehearing of the cause reported
116 U. S. 427.

The case

is

stated in the opinion of the court.

)lfr Samuel 2 Kee for petitioner.
MR. JUSTICE BLATcHFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

On the 18th of January last, a decision was made in this case,
116 U. S. 427, affirming the judgment below, rendered on an
information wtm rem, fied for the forfeiture to the United
States of certain personal property seized for a violation of the
internal revenue laws. There was a trial by jury and a verdict
for the United States. The claimant, in his answer, had set up
in bar, that a criminal information had been filed against him,
in the same court, alleging as offences the same matters averred in the information in the civil suit, and that he had pleaded
guilty and been adjudged to pay a fine. There was no demurrer or reply to this answer. After verdict, the claimant moved
in arrest of judgment, alleging as cause the judgment in the
criminal proceeding, but the motion was overruled. There
was no bill of exceptions, and no exception to the overruling of
the motion.
On the hearing in this court, the claimant contended that, as
there was no traverse of the answer, it must be taken to be true.
But this court held that no reply or replication to the answer
was necessary to raise an issue of fact on the matters averred
in it, that the proceedings, so far as the pleadings were con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

cerned, were kindred to those in a suit in Admiralty 9n rem,
that the general rules of pleading in regard to Admiralty suits
,n rem apply to suits in rem for a forfeiture, brought by the
United States, after a seizure on land, as laid down in the cases
of T/le Sarahz, 8 Wheat. 391, Unwn Ins. Co. v. United States,
6 Wall. 759, 765, Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall. 766, 769, and
Morris' Colton, 8 Wall. 507, 511, that Rule 22 of the Rules in
Admiralty prescribes regulations for the form of informations
and libels of information on seizures for the breach of the laws
of the United States on land or water, that by Rule 51 in Admiralty, new matter in an answer is considered as denied by
the libellant, that the issue of fact as to the former conviction
must be held to have been found against the claimant, by the
general verdict, and that no question in regard to the defence
set up could be raised.
An application is now made by the claimant for a rehearing,
on the ground that, as to the pleadings, the case must be governed by section 914: of the Revised Statutes, which is a reenactment of ยง 5 of the act of June 1, 1872, ch. 255, 17 Stat.
197, and is in these words. "The practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding in civil causes, other than equity and
Admiralty causes. in the Circuit and District Courts, shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and forms
and modes of proceeding existing at the time in like causes in
the Courts of record of the State within which such Circuit or
District Courts are held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding." It is urged that this is a civil cause, but not an
equity or an Admiralty cause, and that the provisions of sections 126 and 386 of the Civil Code of Practice of Kentucky,
which took effect January 1, 1877, apply to it. Those sections are as follows "ยง 126 [153]. Every material allegation
of a pleading must, for the purposes of the action, be taken as
true, unless specifically traversed." "ยง 386 [416]. Judgment
shall be given for the party whom the pleadings entitle thereto,
though there may have been a verdict against him."
The practice as to the pleadings in suits =n rem like the present having been well settled prior to the passage of the act of
June 1st, 1872, the question is, whether it was changed by that

COFFEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinon of the Court.

act. In Unon Ins. Co. v United States, 6 Wall. 759, 764,
where land was seized and proceeded against as forfeited to the
United States under a confiscation act, it was held, that, while
either party had a right to demand a trial by jury, the proceedings were to be "in , general conformity to the course in
Admiralty" A like ruling was made, in a like case, in Armstrong's Foundry, 6 Wall. 766, 769, and in a case of the seizure
of personal property on land, in ]iorms' Cotton, 8 Wall, 507,
511. Section 914 prescribes a conformity to the practice in the
courts of the State only "as near as may be," and only "in
like causes." It is a proper construction of this section to hold,
that, while the provisions of the Code of Kentucky in regard
to pleadings in civil suits zn personam apply to like causes in
the Federalcourts in Kentucky, they do not apply to suits 'in
rem by the United States for the forfeiture of property, after
its seizure, for the violation of a revenue law, because there
Such
are no "like causes" known to the laws of Kentucky
forms
and
pleadings,
suits 'n rem are peculiar in their practice,
of procedure, and, so long as there is ample scope for the
operation of section 914 of the Revised Statutes in regard to
civil suits in personam, and no -intention is manifest to
change the established practice in such suits n riem, and any
change in practice is limited to "like causes," we must continue
to regard the former practice as applicable to the present suit.
The question of the scope of operation of ยง 914 has been considered by this court in .3uddv Burrows, 91 U. S. 426, Indianapolis Railroad Co. v. Horst, 93 U S. 291, .2ewoomb v.
Wood, 97 U. S. 584, and Ex parte Fisk, 113 U. S. 713. In
.Newcomb v Food, it was held that the section did not abrogate the established rule in the courts of the United States,
that to grant or refuse a new trial was a matter of discretion,
which could not be reviewed on a writ of error; and that a
State law entitling a party to a second trial in an action to
recover the value of personal property, did not entitle him to a
second trial in such an action'in a Federal court. io decision
has been made by this court in conflict with the views above
indicated as applicable to this case, and
The applicattonfor a reheartng's denzed.

