HOBBS v. McLEAN.
Syllabus.

HOBBS, Assignee, v. McLEAIf & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Argued March 17, 18, 188.-Decded March 29, 188.
Where three persons form a partnership, and agree to bear the losses and share
the profits of the partnership venture in proportion to their contribution
to its capital, and two of the partners furnish all the money and do all the
work, they are entitled to be repaid their advances out of its assets, before
payment of the individual creditors of the partner who paid nothing and
did nothing to promote the partnership business.
When a contract is open to two constructions, the one lawful and the other
unlawful, the former must be adopted.
When many persons have a common interest in a trust fund, and one, for the
benefit of all, at his own cost and expense, brings suit for its preservation or
administration, a court of equity will order that the plamtiff be reimbursed
his outlay from the property of the trust, or by proportional contribution
from those who accept the benefit of his efforts.
'When one brings adversary proceedings to take trust property from the possession of those entitled to it, in order that he may distribute it to those
entitled adversely, and fails in his purpose, he cannot demand reimbursement of his expenses from the trust fund, or contribution from those whose
property he has sought to misappropriate.
A, having contracted with the United States to furnish supplies of wood and
hay to troops in Montana, entered into partnership with B and C for the
purpose of executing the contract. A was to furnish half the capital, B
and C one-fourth each, and profits and losses were to be divided on that
basis but in fact the capital was furnished by B and C. A delivered
the wood according to the contract, but failed to deliver the hay, and,
payment being refused, he brought suit in his own name in the Court
of Claims against the United States to recover the contract price of the
wood. In this suit B and 0, each was a witness on behalf of A, and
each testified that he had " no interest direct or indirect in the claim," except as a creditor of A. holding his note. Pending the suit A became bankrupt, and then died. His administratrix was admitted to prosecute the suit,
but before entry of final judgment his assignee in bankruptcy was substituted in her place. Minal judgment was then rendered in favor of the assignee, and the amount of the judgment was paid to hn. B and C as
surviving partners then filed a bill in equity against the asskMee and the
attorneys and counsel, to rpcover their shares in the partnership property.
Hrezd
(I) That the interests of B and C in the partnership property were not affected
by the fact that the contract under which they claimed was not made and

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.
attested by witnesses after the issue of a warrant for payment, as required
by Rev. Stat. § 3477.
(2) That they were not affected by the provisions of Rev. Stat. § 3737 that a
transfer of a contract with the United States shall cause an annulment of
the contract so far as the United States are concerned.
(3) That the cause of action to recover of the assignee their proportionate
shares of the partnership fund in his hands accrued to B and C on the receipt of the money by the assignee.
(4) That B and C were not subject in this suit to the disabilities as witnesses
imposed by Rev. Stat. § 858 upon parties to suits by or against executors,
administrators or guardians.
(5) That B and C were not estopped by their declarations in the Court of Claims
as to their interest in the claim there in controversy, from setting up the
interest in it which they seek to enforce in this suit.
(6) That the assignee was entitled to no allowance for compensation for services, expenses and attorney's fees, in recovering the fund in the Court of
Claims from the United States.

The appellees were the plaintiffs in the Circuit Court. The
record showed the following facts On August 19, 1876,
Major Card, a quarter-master in the army of the United
States, advertised for bids for furnishing 6000 cords of wood
and 800 tons of hay at the Tongue River Military Station, in
Montana Territory Campbell K. Peck, whose assignee in
bankruptcy is the appellant, put in a bid, and, believing .that
the contract would be awarded to him, on August 19, 1876,
entered into articles of copartnership with the plaintiffs, McLean
and Harmon, for the purpose of carrying out the contract with
the United States which he expected to make. These articles
provided that Peck should furnish one-half the capital necessary to carry on the partnership business, and McLean and
Harmon each one-fourth, and that the profits and losses of the
partnership should be divided in like proportions. Harmon
agreed to take charge of the office of this partnership, which
was to be at Fort Lincoln, and superintend the business at
that place, and McLean agreed to go to the place of delivery
on the Yellowstone and superintend the business there, but
neither was to make any charges for his services. The articles
of partnership further provided, that, when the contract with
the government was completed, a settlement of profits and
losses should be made "on the basis of the above terms of

HOBBS v. McLEAN.
Statement of Facts.

partnership," and, "if a dissolution is decided on, first all debts
shall be paid, and then all profits divided in the proportions
heretofore mentioned." After the signing of these partnership
articles the bid of Peck was accepted, and on August 25, the
contract between him and the United States was signed and
delivered.
The partners did not deliver the hay required by the contract,
because, as they claimed, they were prevented from so doing
by the officers of the army of the United States, but did cut
and deliver the wood. McLean and Harmon did all the work
that was done, and advanced all the money that was expended
in performing the contract, except about $100, which was
furnished by Peck.
The wood delivered under the contract amounted in value at
the contract price to $51,900, but the United States refused to
pay that sum, claiming damages for the failure to deliver the
hay, but consented to pay, and did pay, $10,919.37. McLean
and Harmon received $10,000 of this sum, and Peck $919.37,
which was over $800 more than he advanced for the performance of the contract. The parties interested being dissatisfied
with the action of the government in refusing payment in full
for the wood delivered, Peck, who was the only person to
whom the govbrnment was bound, filed, on November 7, 1877,
his petition in the Court of Claims against the United States,
demanding $55,003.63 damages for the breach of the contract.
The United States traversed the petition, and, upon final hearing in the Court of Clauns, judgment was rendered for Peck,
the claimant, for $43,113.63. From this judgment both parties
appealed to this court, which, in February, 1880, affirmed the
judgment of the Court of Claims and allowed the claimant, in
addition to the amount already awarded him, the further sum
of $2660, making the entire judgment in favor of the claimant
$45,773.63.
While the case was pending in the Court of Claims, to wit,
on August 31,1878, Peck was, on his own petition, adjudicated
a bankrupt in the District Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa, and Hobbs, the appellant in the present case,
was appointed assignee. While the case was pending in this

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

court Peck, on December 2, 1879, died, and his widow, Helen
A. Peck, was afterwards appointed his administratrix, and in
January, 1880, was substituted in the Place of her intestate as
the plaintiff in the cause. The case still being m this court,
and after Mrs. Peck had, as administratrix, been made party
plaintiff, Hobbs, as assignee, moved the court to be substituted
as plaintiff in her stead, which motion was denied. The cause
having been remanded to the Court of Claims, Hobbs, the assignee in bankruptcy, moved that court to substitute him as
plaintiff in place of the admmistratrix, which motion was, on
May 10, 1880, granted, and the money recovered from the
United States was, after deducting about $10,000 attorneys'
fees, paid over to Hobbs, the assignee.
Mclean and Harmon, fearing that Hobbs would distribute
the fund thus recovered among the general creditors of Peck,
and believing that the fund belonged to them, filed in the Circuit Court for the Southern District of Iowa the bill in the
present case, to which they made Hobbs, as assignee in bankruptcy of Peck, and John B. Sanborn and Charles King, lately
partners as Sanborn & King, and Edward F Brownell defendants, and in which they set out in detail the facts above
recited, set up their claim to the fund as surviving partners,
and prayed that the balance found due them from the partner
ship on an accounting might be paid them out of the fund, so
far as it should be sufficient to pay the same.
The defendant Hobbs, as assignee, answered the bill, and the
plaintiffs filed the general replication. Upon final hearing
upon pleadings and proofs the Circuit Court adjudged and
decreed as follows After reciting the making of the partnership between the plaintiffs and Peck, and the performance by
the partnership of the contract made by Peck with the United
States, it found that, after charging to the partners all the
moneys received by them respectively, it appeared. that Peck
had received more money than he had paid out in'performing
the contract, and that the plaintiffs had expended for the same
purpose $41,032.31 more than they had received, that Hobbs,
the assignee, had collected and received on the judgment
against the United States recovered by Peck's administratrix

HOBBS v. XcLEAN.
Argument for Appellant.

835,773.63, and it was, therefore, adjudged and decreed that
said sum was the money and property of the plaintiffs and
that they recover it of the defendant Hobbs, who was ordered
to pay it to the plaintiffs, with interest on the investment
thereof, and that the plaintiffs also recover of Hobbs, as as•signee, their costs and disbursements in the suit, to be paid by
him out of any money in his hands as assignee. The appeal
of Hobbs, as assignee, brought this decree under review
.Y 7ames Hfagerman for appellant. X 1F'ank Hagerman
and Xr1.John H. Cratg were with him on the brief.
I. Peck's claim passed to assignee under the assignment in
bankruptcy, and assignee was properly substituted in Peck's
case in Court of Claims. Rev Stat. § 5044, 5045, 5046, 5047.
Herndon v Howard,9 Wall. 664, .nox v Exchange Bank, 12
Wall 379, Person's Case, 8 C. C1. 543, Erwqn v United States,
'97 U S. 392, Phelps v. 3fc-Donald, 99 U. S. 298, Peck's Case,
14 C. Cl. 84.
II. The United States Circuit Court had no jurisdiction of
this case, unless the complainants have an interest in. the fund.
Rev. Stat. § 4947.
III. On complainant's theory, the administratrix of Peck is
a necessary party to this suit. XYcEazg v .Hebb,42), Maryland,
227.
IV The partnership agreement and powers of attorney and
Peck's notes can be construed not to pass any interest, legal or
equitable, in Peck's contract and claim. Tfrmght v. Ellison, 1
Wall. 16, Trzst v Child, 21 Wall. 441.
V The alleged partnership agreement and assignments are illegal, null, and void as to passing any interest in Peck's contract
or claim as between assignor and assignee, and also as between
United States and assignee. Rev. Stat. §§ 3477, 3737; Tmt v.
Child,21 Wall. 441, United States v. 6illi&, 95 U. S. 407, Spofford v ifirk, 97 U. S. 484, TWanless' Case, 6 C. C1. 123, St.
Paul .Railroad Co. v United S.tates, 112 U. S. 733, Flint &c
Pare 2arquette Railroad Co. v United States,112 U. S. '162,
i3fellison v Allen, 30 Kansas, 382.
VI. The testimony of complainants in the Court of Claims

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Argument for Appellant.

that they had no interest in Peck's contract was conclusive.
-71ulliganv Illinots Central RailroadCo., 36 Iowa, 181, .Aarsh
v. .Xitchell,11 C. E. Green (26 N. J. Eq.), 497, Edson v Tr7ret,
11 La. Ann. 710. It operates as an estoppel. Bronson v
Worth, 7 Wall. 32, Stowe v. United States, 19 Wall. 13, Bank
of Pittsburgv. Yeal, 22 How 96. And destroys their credibility The Santisszma Trnsdad, 7 Wheat. 283.
VIL Complainants were incompetent witnesses under Rev.
Stat. § 858. Assignees in bankruptcy are within the intent of
this statute. Crocker v. National Bank, 4 Dillon, 358, Tifany
v Boatman's Institution, 18 Wall. 375, Tifany v. NYat. Bank,
18 Wall. 408, Carpenter v. Rannels, 19 Wall. 138, United
States v Freeman, 3 How. 556, 565.
VIII. Under the Iowa statute, complainants could not testify
as to communications and transactions with Peck. Code of Iowa,
1873, § 3639, Williams v. Brown, 45 Iowa, 102, Burton v
Baldwn, 61 Iowa, 283, First NMational Bank v Owen, 52
Iowa, 107, Smith v Johnson, 45 Iowa, 308, 'Fan Sandt v.
Cramer,60 Iowa, 424, Conn. Life Ins. Co. v. Unon Trust Co.,
112 U. S. 250, Lucas v. Brooks, 18 Wall. 436, Packet Co. v.
Clough, 20 Wall. 528.
IX. The judgment of the Court of Claims in Peck's suit, and
the order substituting Hobbs, are res yudcate. 1 Greenleaf on
Ev § 535, Bigelow on Estoppel, 3d ed. 59, Stoddardv. Ttorpson, 30 Iowa, 82, Damis v. Milburn, 4 Iowa, 246, .Ae3amee
v. liforeland, 26 Iowa, 96, Chzcago v. Robbns, 2 Black, 418,
Cromwell v. Sac County, 94 U. S. 351.
X. Complainant's right of action is barred by the statute of
limitations. Rev. Stat. § 5057, Ozeas v. Johnson, 4. Dall. 434,
Bank v. Carrollton Railroad,11 Wall. 624, 'Finalv West Virgznza Oil Co., 110 U. S. 215, Case v. Beauregard,99 U. S. 119,
Bailey v. Glover, 21 Wall. 342.
XI. The assignee is entitled in any event to have compensation from the fund for services, expenses and attorneys' fees.
Trustees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527, Central Railroadv Pettus, 113 U. S. 116.
XII. The assignee is entitled to recover on his cross bill.
XIII. Complainants have no standing in a court of equity

HOBBS v. McLEANT.
Opinion of the Court.

.Xegus're v Corwne. 101 U S. 108, 1 Wharton on Contracts,

§ 340, Irwin v .W'lliar, 110 U. S. 499.
.Xr Charles E. Flandau and _Yr IVTlter H. Sanorm. for
appellees.
Mr. JUSTICE WOODs, after stating the case as reported above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The findings of fact made by the Circuit Court in its final
decree are, in our opimion, amply sustained by the evidence.
These findings, and other facts not disputed, establishrzma
facze the justice and equity of the decree.
Upon the facts of the case, the decree of the court is simply
to this effect, that, where three persons form a partnership, and
agree to bear the losses and share the profits of the partnership
venture in proportion to their contributions to its capital, and
two of the partners furnish all the money and do all the work,
they are entitled to be repaid their advances out of its assets
before payment of the individual creditors of the partner who
paid nothing and did nothing to promote the partnership business. The decree may stand on even stronger grounds. There
is no evidence in the record to show that there were any unpaid debts outstanding against the partnership of which Peck
and the plaintiffs were the members. The decree of the court
is based on the assumption that there were no such debts. The
money therefore, collected on the judgment recovered by
Peck's administratrix was assets of the partnership, to which
the partners were entitled in proportion to the amount paid in
by them, and the record clearly shows that the money so collected was the only assets of the partnership. As McLean and
Harmon had paid in all the money, they were entitled to all
the money collected on the judgment, not by reason of any
right to priority of payment, nor by reason of any lien, but because it was their property, and no other person had any claim
to it. The plaintiffs' right to the fund was not at all impaired
by the bankruptcy or death of Peck. Their claim was just as
strong as if Peck were still living, and had received and collected
the judgment in his own name, and the money had been taken

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

from his hands and impounded in the registry of the court. The
decree might, therefore, stand on the ground which it in fact
asserts, that the money in controversy was the absolute property of the plaintiffs.
The defendant, however, assails the decree on several
grounds, which we shall proceed to notice.
It was shown by the evidence that on July 20, 1877, Peck
executed and delivered to Harmon a paper, of which the following is a copy"
"FORT ABRAA 3 LINCOLN, J]uly 20, 1877.
"For value received, I promise to pay to William Harmon,
or order, twenty-three thousand dollars, out of moneys I may
hereafter receive on account of my claim against the United
States Government, for contract for wood, at Tongue River
cantonment, on the Yellowstone River.
" 0.

K.

PECK."

On the same day he executed and delivered to McLean a
paper, similar in terms, for the payment to him of $17,000 out
of the same fund. The appellant insists that the contract of
partnership between Peck and the plaintiffs, and the promises
of Peck above mentioned, were forbidden by the statutes of
the United States, and were, therefore, illegal and void, and
gave no rights to the plaintiffs to the fund in controversy
The statutes relied on are §§ 3477 and 3737 of the Revmsed
Statutes, which read as follows.
"SEC. 3477. All transfers and assignments made of any
claim upon the United States, or of any part or share thereof,
or interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the consideration therefor, and all powers of
attorney, orders, or other authorities for receiving payment of
any such claim, or of any part or share thereof, shall be absolutely null and void, unless they are freely made and executed
in the presence of at least two attesting witnesses, after the
allowance of such a claim, the ascertainment of the amount due,
"
and the issuing of a warrant for the payment thereof.
"SEc. 3737. No contract or order, or any interest therein,
shall be transferred by the party to whom such contract or

HOBBS v. McLEAT.
Opimon of the Court.

order is given to any other party, and any such transfer shall
cause the annulment of the contract or order transferred, so
far as the United States are concerned. All rights of action,
however, for any breach of such contract by the contracting
parties, are reserved to the United States."
We shall first consider these two sections in their bearing
upon the contract of partnership between Peck and the plaintiffs. It is obvious that § 3477, which forbids assignments of
claims against the United States or any interest therein, unless
under the circumstances therein stated, can have no reference
to such a contract as the partnership articles between Peck
and the plaintiffs. When those articles were signed there was
no claim against the United States to be transferred. Peck
had at that time no contract even with the United States, and
there was no certainty that he would have one. What is a
claim against the United States is well understood. It is aright to demand money from the United States. Peck acquired no claim in any sense until after he had made and per
formed, wholly or in part, his contract with the United States.
Section 3477, it is clear, only refers to claims against the -United
States which can be presented by the claimant to some department or officer of the United States for payment, or may be
prosecuted in the Court of Claims. The section simply forbids
the assignment of such claims before their allowance, the ascertainment of the amount due thereon, and the issue of a warrant for their payment. When the contract of partnership
was made Peck had no claim which he could present for payment or on which he could have brought suit. He, therefore,
had no claim the assignment of which the statute forbids. It
is so clear that the articles of partnership do not constitute
such an assignment as is forbidden by the section under consideration, that it would be a waste of words further to discuss
the point.
Nor are the articles of partnership forbidden by § 3737.
They do not transfer the contract or any interest therein to
the plaintiffs, and cannot fairly be construed to do so. But if
the articles of partnership were fairly open to two constructions, the presumption is that. they were made in subordination

OOTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinon of the Court.

to and not in violation of § 3737, and if they can be construed
consistently with the prohibitions of the section they should
be so construed. For it'is a rule of interpretation that, where
a contract is fairly open to two constructions, by one of which
it would be lawful and the other unlawful, the former must be
adopted. Whart. on Ev., 2d ed., § 1250, Best's Evidence, 6
Eng. Ed., 1st Am. Ed., §§ 346, 347, Shore v. Wilson, 9 C1. &
F 355, 397, -foss v. Banbmgge, 18 Beav. 478, Lorillardv.
Clyde, 86 N. Y 384, Mandal v Xfandal, 28 La. Ann. 556.
Interpreting the articles in the light of the statute, as it is the
duty of the court to do, they were not intended to transfer,
and do not transfer, to the plaintiffs any claim or demand,
legal or equitable, against the United States, or any right to
exact payment from the government by suit or otherwise.
They may be fairly construed to be the personal contract of
Peck, by which, in consideration of money to be advanced and
services to be performed by the plaintiffs, he agreed to divide
with them a fund which he expected to receive from the United
States, on a contract which he had not yet entered into. This
is the plainly expressed meaning of the partnership contract,
and it is only by a strained and forced construction that it can
be held to effect a transfer of Peck's contract with the United
States and to be a violation of the statute.
We are of opinion that the partnership contract was not
opposed to the policy of the statute. The sections under consideration were passed for the protection of the government.
Goodman v. Niblack, 102 U. S. 556. They were passed in
order that the government might not be harassed by multiplying the number of persons with whom it had to deal, and
might always know with whom it was dealing until the contract was. completed and a settlement made. Their purpose
was not to dictate to the contractor what he should do
with the money received on his contract after the contract
had been performed.
One or both of the sections of the statute which we are now
considering have been under the review of this court in the following cases United States v. Gillis, 95 U. S.407, Erwzn v.
United States, 97 U. S. 392, Svoford v Birk, 97 U. S. 484,

HOBBS v. McLEAN.
Opimon of the Court.

Goodman v lNiblack, 102 U. S. 556, Bailey v. U7nited States,
109 U. S. 432, St. Paul and -Duluth Railroad Co. v United
States, 112 U. S. 733. In none of them is any opinion expressed in conflict with the views we have announced in this
case.
Our conclusion, therefore, is, that the articles of partnership
were not forbidden by the letter or policy of this statute.
In respect to the papers executed by Peck on July 20, 1877,
by which he agreed to pay $23,000 to Harinon and $17,000 to
McLean, respectively, "out of moneys" he might "thereafter
receive on account of" his "claim against the United States
Government for contract for wood," &c., it is plain they confer no new rights on the plaintiffs, and take away no old ones.
The evidence shows that Harmon and McLean were entitled,
under the partnership articles, to the money specified in these
memoranda. Peck was, therefore, only promising to do what,
on a good consideration, he had already by the articles of partnership promised to do. There was no new consideration for
these new promises. The only office, therefore, which the
memoranda performed was to show the amount then due the
plaintiffs, respectively, under the articles of partnership. It
would be a strange conclusion to hold that, by accepting these
papers, the plaintiffs lost their right, which they had already
acquired under the articles of partnership, to have the money
therein mentioned paid over to them when it should be collected
by Peck, their copartner. If the obligation assumed by Peck
in his articles of partnership was valid and binding, it was not
impaired or annulled by the giving and the acceptance of these
memoranda. From what we have already said in discussing
the articles of partnership, it is clear that they were not forbidden by the language or policy of the sections prohibiting the
transfer of claims and contracts.
It is next assigned for error that the Circuit Court did not
give effect to the defence of the statute of limitation of two
years, prescribed by section 5057 of the Revised Statutes,
which was set up in the answer 6f-the defendant.
The section mentioned forms a part of § 2 of the bankrupt
act of March 2, 1867, ch. 176, 14 Stat. 517, and provides that
vo.. cxvi- 87

OCTOBER TERM,,

1885.

Opimon of the Court.

no suit at lqhw or in equity shall be maintained in any court
between an assignee in bankruptcy and a person claiming an
adverse interest, touching any property, or rights of property,
transferable to or vested in such assignee, unless brought within
two years from the time when the cause of action accrued for
or against such assignee.
It is plain that the facts shown by the record do not sustain
this defence. This suit is for the recovery, as assets of a partnership, of the money collIected on the contract between Peck
and the United States, and its distribution among the partners
on a settlement of the partnership affairs. If Peck had lived
and had not been adjudicated bankrupt, the plaintiffs could not
have maintained this suit against him until the money which
'is the subject of this controversy had been collected from the
United States. They had no right under this contract with
Peck to demand their share of the money until the money had
come to his hands. The bankruptcy and death of Peck did not
change the terms of the contract. They could not sue his assignee for a distribution of the fund until the fund had been
received. The judgment against the United States in favor of
Peck's administratrix was not affirmed by this court until February 10, 1880, and the money was not received by the defendant until after he had been substituted as claimant in the
case in place of Helen A. Peck, administratrix, by order of the
Court of Claims, on May 10, 1880. This suit was begun September 22, 1880.
A bill like the present, for the settlement of the affairs of the
partnership and the distribution of its assets among the partners, would have been premature until the final determination
of the suit of Peck against the United States, for that suit involved all the assets of the partnership, and until it was decided
there could be no adjustment of the partnership concerns and
no distribution of its assets, in fact, it was uncertain whether
there would be any assets to distribute. As, therefore, the
plaintiffs were not entitled to the relief prayed in the bill until
final judgment in the suit of Peck against the United States,
and especially had no demand against the defendant until the
fund, which they assert was assets of the partnership, came to

HOBBS v. McLEAN.
Opinon of the Court.

his hands, it is plain that the statute of limitation was not well
pleaded.
It is next assigned for error that the Circuit Court admitted
the testimony of McLean and Harmon, the plaintiffs, offered in
their own behalf, in regard to transactions with and statements
by Peck, he being dead, and the suit being against his assignee
in bankruptcy. It is insisted that the testimony of these witnesses was incompetent under section 858 of the Revised Statutes, which provides as follows "In the courts of the United
States no witness shall be excluded
in any action because he is a party to or interested in the issue tried P -owsded,
that, in actions by or against executors, administrators or guardians, in which judgment may be rendered for or against them,
neither party shall be allowed to testify against the other as to
any transaction with, or statement by, testator, intestate, or
ward, unless called to testify thereto by the opposite party, or
required to testify thereto by the court. In all other respects
the laws of the State in which the court is held shall be the rules
of decision as to the competency of the witnesses in the courts
of the United States, in trials at common law, and in equity
and admiralty"'
The witnesses admitted by the Circuit Court were not excluded by the terms of this statute. The suit in which they
testified was not an action by or against an executor, administrator, or guardian. But the counsel for the defendant insists
that the policy of the act applies to suits by or against assignees as well as to suits by or against executors, administrators,
or guardians, and that we ought to construe the act so as to include such suits. We cannot concur in this view The purpose
of the act was to remove generally the old incapacity to testify
imposed on parties or persons interested in the suit. This was
done by a sweeping provision, subject to certain well-defined
exceptions, but the exceptions did not include suits by or against
assignees in bankruptcy. 4 We cannot insert the exception.
When a provision is left out of a statute, either by design or
mistake of the legislature, the courts have no power to supply
it. To do so would be to legislate and not to construe. "We
are bound," says Mr. Justice Buller, in Jones v. Smanrt, 1 T. R.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.

Opinion of the Court

44, "to take the act of Parliament as they have made it," and
Mr. Justice Story, in Srn'd v ines,2 Sumner, 338, 354, 355,
observes, "It is not for courts of justice proprzomarte to provide
for all the defects or mischiefs of imperfect legislation." See
also Zing v Burrell,12 A. & E. 460, Lamond v L'ffe, 3 Q. B.
910, Bloxam v Elee, 6 B. & C.169, Bartletv Morzs, 9 Port.
(Ala.) 266. The objection made to the admission of the testimony of the plaintiffs was properly overruled.
The next ground of complaint against the decree of the Circuit Court is, that the court did not hold the plaintiffs estopped
from asserting title to the fund in controversy, by the fact that
they each testified in the suit of Peck against the United States,
in which the fund was recovered, that he had no interest, direct
or indirect, in the claim of Peck, except that he held one of the
notes or memoranda made by Peck, a copy of one of which has
already been given.
It must be conceded that this testimony was evasive and disingenuous, -but it was not false. Blut admitting that the testimony was untrue, it is difficult to see how any estoppel is raised
which the defendant can set up against a recovery in this case
by the plaintiffs. An equitable estoppel is raised when there
is some intended deception in the conduct or declarations of the
party to be estopped, or such gross negligence on his part as to
amount to constructive fraud, by which another has been misled to his injury Brant v. -Firgmina Coal & Iron Co., 93 U. S.
326. If any estoppel could be set up in this case by reason of
the testimony of the plaintiffs, it would be one in favor of the
United States, who alone could have been injured by that testimony
It is clear that the estoppel could not be set up by the defendant, for the evidence was given on his side of the controversy, and he is now in possession of and claims the fund which
that testimony aided Peck, whose assignee he is, to recover.
There was, therefore, no injury to the defendant and no estoppel which he could set up against these plaintiffs. See Cu-97tng
v Lat-rd, 107 U. S. 69.
It is true, his counsel say, that, by reason of the denial by the
plaintiffs that they had any interest in Peck's claim, the defend-

HOBBS v. McLEAN.
Opinion of the Court.

ant was induced to employ counsel and move both this court and
the Court of Claims, that he be made, as assignee of Peck, the
party plaintiff in the suit against the United States, and to
expend a large sum of money in prosecuting his motions. As
we have already found that the plaintiffs were entitled to the
fund in controversy, and the defendant was not, this contention amounts to this, that the plaintiffs should be precluded
from a recovery of their own property, and it ought to be
turned over to the defendant, because the defendant, misled
by the testimony of the plaintiffs given in a case to which he
was not at the time either a party or privy, was induced to
expend money in a proceeding to get possession of the subjectmatter of the controversy, to which, as it turned out, he had
no title whatever. Upon such a state of facts no estoppel is
raised. IBut there is no proof in the record that the defendant
was misled by the testimony of the plaintiffs, or that he did
not know the exact truth when he took the proceedings referred
to. In no point of view, therefore, can the defendant assert that
the plaintiffs are estopped to claim the fund in controversy
Lastly, the defendant insists that the Circuit Court erred in
not allowing him compensation for his services, expenses, and
attorneys' fees in recovering the fund in the Court of Claims
from the United States. In reply to this contention, it is sufficient to say that the defendant rendered no services whatever
in the recovery of the fund. Judgment had been rendered in
the Court of Claims in favor of the administratrix of Peck, and
hid been affirmed by this court, and the mandate of this court
had been sent to the Court of Claims, before the defendant
was admitted as plaintiff in the suit for the recovery of the
fund. All he did was to get the fund into his possession. As
in our view the fund belongs to the plaintiffs in this suit, all
that comes out of it for the compensation of the defendant
comes out of their pockets. We see no reason why they should
pay the defendant, who, instead of aiding them in securing
their rights, has been an obstacle and obstruction to their enforcement. The services for which the defendant seeks pay
from the plaintiffs were not rendered in their behalf, but in
hostility to their interest.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

When many persons have a common interest in a trust property or fund, and one of them, for the benefit of all and at his
own cost and expense, brings a suit for its preservation or administration, the court of equity in which the suit is brought
will order that the plaintiff be reimbursed his outlay from the
property of the trust, or by proportional contribution from
those who accept the benefits of his efforts. See Trustees v
Greenough, 105 'L. S. 527, where the subject is discussed by
Mr. Justice Bradley, and the cases cited, and Central Railroad Co. v .Pettus, 113 U. S. 116. But where one brigs adversary proceedings to take the possession of trust property
from those entitled to it, in order that he may distribute it to
those who claim adversely, and fails in his purpose, it has
never been held, in any case brought to our notice, that such
person had any right to demand reimbursement of his expenses out of the trust fund, or contribution from those whose
property he sought to misappropriate.
The Circuit Court was right in not compelling the plaintiffs
to pay for services rendered and expenses incurred in a proceeding adversary to their interest, and carried on for the benefit of others.
There is no error in the record.
Decree afflrmed.

B10-RNES v. SCOTT & Another, Executors.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Argued March 23, 1886.-Decided April 5, 1896.

In a suit at law, by the payee of a promissory note or his representatives,
against the maker, evidence is inadmissible to show that the note was not
intended to be a promissory note, but was given as a memorandum not to
be enforced against the maker.
A defence in an action at law by the payee of a promissory note, or his repre-

sentatives, that there was a failure of consideration in that the note was
based upon certain partnership transactions between the parties wnch are

