648

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

to be sold, and directs it to be sold by itself, after those estates
are sold.
The appellant objects to the adjudication in regard to the
strip, on the ground that there is not in the record either
pleading or evidence to support it. This is true. The decree
must, therefore, be reversed in that respect. It is accordingly
Affirmed, except as to the strp, and reversed as to that, and

the case m remanded to the Circuit Court, wzth a direction
to strike out of the decree everything relating to the strp.
The costs of the appeal are awarded to the daughters.

GIVEN & Others Relators v. WRIGHT Collector.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
Argued March 5, 18S.-Decided April 12, 1886.
An exemption from taxation granted by the government to an individual is a
franchise, which can be lost by acquiescence under the imposition of taxes
for a period long enough to rame a conclusive presumption of a surrender
of the privilege, and such acquiescence for a period of sixty years (and,
V indeed, for a much shorter period) raises such a presumption.

This was a writ of error directed to the Supreme Court of
New Jersey to review a judgment rendered by the Court of
Errors and Appeals of that State, affirming a judgment of the
Supreme Court, and remitted thereto. The case arose upon a
certwrar? issued in the name of the State, on the relation of
certain tax-payers of the township of Shamong, in the county
of Burlington, directed to Henry Wrght, collector of said
township, for the purpose of examining the legality of a certain assessment of taxes, for the year 1876. The taxes complained of were laid upon lands of the prosecutors lying within
the bounds of a tract known as the Indian Reservation. According to the New Jersey practice, reasons were filed for
setting aside the assessment, and evidence was taken before a
commissioner of the court.

GIVEN v. WRIGHT.
Statement of Facts.

The reasons assigned were
1st. That the lands were not liable to be assessed for taxes
under the Constitution and laws of New Jersey
2d. That, by virtue of a contract with the State of New
Jersey, contained in the act of the legislature, entitled "An
Act to empower certain persons to purchase the claims of the
Indians to land in this colony," the lands were expressly exempted from taxation.
The lands on which the assessment was laid were the same
lands which were held to be exempt from taxation by this
court in the case of Nfew Jrsey v Wilson, reported in 7 Cranch,
164, where a sudcinct history of the transactions out of which
the claimed exemption grew is given. That decision was made
in February Term, 1812. Since that time, for about sixty
years before the assessment in question was laid, taxes have
been regularly assessed on the lands, and paid without objection. The Supreme Court of New Jersey sustained the assessment, holding that the uninterrupted acquiescence in the imposition of taxes for so long a time raised a conclusive presumption that, by some convention with the State, the right to
exemption was surrendered. The Court of Errors and Appeals
affirmed this decision, and the case was brought here for review,
on the allegation of the plaintiffs in error that the obligation
of the contract of exemption had been impaired by the laws of
New Jersey under which the tax was imposed.
The alleged contract was contained in a law of the New
Jersey Colonial Legislature, passed August 12, 1758. There
remained at that time within the colony a remnant of the Delaware Indians, who claimed certain lands in different parts of
the colony, which they alleged had never been sold by them.
In consequence of a convention had with them, the legislature
passed the law in question, entitled "1An Act to empower certain persons to purchase the claims of the Indians to land in
this colony" The act appointed five commissioners, with anthority to lay out any sum not exceeding £1600 proclamation
money, to purchase the right and claims of the Indians. The
second section of the act was as follows
"And wwereas the Indians south of Raritan River, have

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts,

represented their inclination to have part of the sum allowed
them laid out in land whereon they may settle and raise their
necessary subsistence In order that they may be gratified in
that particular, and that they may have always in their view
a lasting monument of the justice and tenderness of this colony
toward them Be it enacted by the authority afor'esa d, That
the commissioners aforesaid, or any three of them, with the approbation and consent of his excellency the governor, or the
governor or commander-in-chief for the time being, shall pur
chase some convenient tract or tracts of land, for their settlement, and shall take a deed or deeds in the name of his said excellency or commander-in-chief of this colony for the time being,
and of the commissioners, and their heirs, in trust for the use of
the said Indian natives, who have or do reside in this colony,
south of Raritan, and their successors, forever Provmed,
nevertheless, That it shall not, be in the power of the said
Indians, or their successors, or any of them, to lease or sell to
any person or persons, any part thereof. And if any person
or persons, Indians excepted, shall attempt to settle on the said
tract or tracts, it shall and may be lawful for any justice of the
peace to issue his warrant to remove any such person or persons from such land. And if any person or persons, Indians
excepted, shall fell, cut up, or cart off, any cedar, pine, or oak
trees, such person or persons shall forfeit and pay, for each tree
so felled, cut up or carted off, the sum of forty shillings, &c."
The 7th section was as follows.
"And be itffurther enacted by the authority aforecad, That
the lands to be purchased for the Indians, as aforesaid, shall
not hereafter be subject to any tax, any law, usage, or custom
to the contrary thereof in anywise notwithstanding."
In pursuance of this law a tract of about 3000 acres of land,
situate in the township of Evesham, in Burlington County,
(now in the township of Shamong aforesaid), was purchased
by the commissioners for the sum of £740, and conveyed to
"His said Excellency, Francis Bernard, Esquire, Governor
and Commander in Chief of the Province of New Jersey, and
to them the said Andrew Johnston, Richard Salter, Charles
Read, John Stevins, William Foster and Jacob Spicer,

GIVEN v. WRIGHT.
Statement of Facts.

Esquires, and their heirs forever In trust, nevertheless, that
they shall permit such Indian natives as have resided or do
reside in this colony south of Raritan, and their successors
forever, to cultivate and inhabit the same to and for such uses
as are declared in an act of general assembly of the Colony of
New Jersey, entitled an Act to empower certain persons to
purchase the claims of the Indians to lands in this colony"
The tract purchased included a cedar swamp and saw-mill,
and was surrouided by wild lands which furnished good
hunting ground, and they were sufficiently near the coast for
fishing.
The Indian beneficiaries of this trust, who were but a small
band (about sixty in all, as stated by the historian Smith), removed to the settlement purchased (which received the name
of 'Brotherton), and remained there until the latter part of the
century, when they desired a change in the mode of managing
their lands. The old commissioners having died, they desired
new ones appointed to take charge of the lands and mill, and
to let or lease the same for their use and benefit.
Accordingly, on their petition, an act was passed on the 17th
of March, 1'(96, which appointed three commissioners to take
charge of the lands "and leaso out the same, from time to time,
on such terms, and in such manner as should most conduce to
the advantage of said Indians." The commissioners were directed to apply the moneys arising from the lands unto the
Indians, or the value thereof in necessaries, such as provisions and clothing, or to such of them as should stand most
in need. They were to account annually to the Court of Common Pleas of Burlington County, which court was invested
with power to remove them for misconduct, and in case of a
vacancy to appoint new commissioners. It was expressly
provided, however, that nothing iii the act should prevent the
Indians from residing on the lands, or cutting wood or timber
for their own use.
It was not long after this before the Indians desired to have
their lands sold, and to join their brethren at New Stockbridge
m the State of New York. The legislature complied with their
wishes, and on the 3d of December, 1801, passed an act ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

pointing commissioners to sell the lands, and to appropriate
the money thence arising for the benefit of the Indians. The
act directed the tract to be divided up into lots not exceeding
a hundred acres in each, and to give notice of the time and
place of sale, all of which was done. The lands were sold
and deeds of conveyance in fee simple were given to the purchasers, but neither in the law nor in the deeds was anything
said about exemption from taxes.
After the sale the assessors of the township in which the
lands lay proceeded to assess the same for taxes, but, on a
certorartfrom the Supreme Court of New Jersey, the assessment was set aside in September, 1801. On the 1st of December, 1804, the legislature repealed the 7th section of the act of
1758, which contained the exemption from taxes. Another
assessment was then made, and the matter was brought before the Supreme Court a second time in the case of _-New
Jersey v Tilson, reported in 1 Pennington, 300. The assessment was now sustained. Judges Rossell and Pennington
delivered quite elaborate opinions, arguing that, by the act of
1758, and the purchase under the same, the lands were intended
as a permanent possession of the Indians as a home, protected
against their natural improvidence by being made inalienable
by sale or lease, or by the imposition of taxes, that the exemption from taxes was one of the incidents of the Indian tenure,
and had no congruity with absolute ownership of citizens, and
that when, at the request of the Indians, the land was sold to
other parties in fee simple absolute, the abnormal qualities of
the Indian tenure were extinguished, and all the conditions
which rendered exemption from taxes requisite and proper
ceased to exist. Judge Pennington added that the fee was not
in the Indians, that the purchasers could not claim title from
or under them, that the commissioners were not authorized to
sell the interests or rights of the Indians, but to sell the land,
the fee of which was in trustees who were agents of the State,
and that the State in selling the land was under no obligation
to continue the exemption from taxes, and did not do so. On
writ of error from this court, however, this judgment was reversed, the act of 1758 was held to be a contract, and the act

GIVEN v. WRIGHT.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

of 1804, repealing the exemption, was held to impair the obligation of that contract, and was, therefore, void. _Yew Jersey
v Wilson, 7 Cranch, 164.
-3rP L. Foorkees for plaintiff in error, as to the effect of
the sixty years' acquiescence m taxation, contended as follows
The statute granting the exemption was an act of sovereign
authority, and can only be changed by an equally solemn
act. "J- ra eode modo destituuntur quo constztuuntur," or
as translated in Bouvier's Law Dictionary "Laws are only
abrogated or repealed by the same means by which they are
made." Broom's Legal Maxims, 877. Potter's Dwarris, 154.
A statute cannot be repealed by nonuser. Nothing short of a
statute can repeal a statute. Sedgwick Stat. and Const. Law,
page 121, edition 1851. Smith's Stat. & Const. Construction,
page 908, § 790. Potter's Dwarris, 122, 153, 154. 1 Kent
Com. [467] 527. 10th edition. Vhkde v Boot, 2 T. R. 274.
Zezigh v Rent, 3 T. R. 362. The India, Brown. & Lush. 221.
4 Fisher's Dig., 8223. 6 Mew's Fisher's Dig., 2038. There has
not been any constitutional act done by the legislature repealing the act of August 12, 1758, or repealing, changing or
annulling the contract in the said act contained. There has
not been any agreement or contract between the State, or the
legislature of the State, and the said Indians or their successors,
in any way changing the contract in the act of August 12, 1758,
exempting the lands purchased for the Indians from taxation.
Nor can this statute or contract be repealed or made of none
effect by presumption. A presumption is an inference affirmative or disaffirmative of the truth or falsehood of any proposition or fact drawn by a process of probable reasoning in the
absence of actual certainty of its truth or falsehood, or until
such certainty can be ascertained. Best on Presumptions.
Bouvier's Law Di6t. Presumption. As above shown a statute
can only be repealed by a statute, and cannot be repealed by a
nonuser. A statute cannot alter by reason of time, the common law may Dwarris' Maxims in Potter's Dwarris, 122. Presumption is against the repeal of a statute by implication. The
India, 1 Brown. & Lush. 221. 6 Mew's Fisher's Dig., 2038.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Argument for the State.

Nor is this a case in which a presumption can arise. The
cases referred to in the&opinion of the Supreme Court of New
Jersey in deciding this case will be found to depend upon the
proof of title by custom or usage, ripening into prescriptive
rights under the laws of England, and in all the cases where it
was shown that such rights existed, or a grant had been made
before the time of legal memory, the limitation under the laws
of England, the grants were sustained and the rights then
granted were sustained and enforced. Such cases can be of but
little authority in this country, where there are no such prescriptive rights. This country was not discovered or settled
until after the time "whereof the memory of man runneth not
to the contrary," the limitation of prescriptive rights in England. In New Jersey it has been decided by its Supreme
Court that there can be no title by prescription. Ackernan
v. S elp, 3 Halst. (8 N. J L.) 125, 2d ed. 153. The effect of
such citations is stated in 1 Dillon Muniep. Corp., § 324, Cooley
Const. Lim., 197, Comnonwealth v Stodder, 2 Cush. 562, 565,
569.
3-r Charles E.Hendriekson for defendant in error.

.Mr John P Stockton, Attorney-General of New Jersey on
behalf of the State, showed to the court that the case of Hew Jersey v. Tilson,7 Cranch, 164, had been decided without argument,
and on an incomplete statement of facts.. that in 1796 a new contract had been made with the Indians in place of that of 1758,
and that the new contract was not then before the court, and
was now here for the first time for construction. He added
Respect for the decisions of this court as well as the doctrine
of stare deec9, may prevent us from questioning the decision
in the case of Hew Jersey v. Tilson, but it cannot close our
eves to the fact that the contract presented to and quoted by
Chief Justice Marshall in Hew Jersey v. WTrilson, differed materially from the actual document, nor to the equally important
fact that that contract was, at that time, superseded and extinguished by another, then in existence, but undiscovered. The
decision of Chief Justice Marshall, upon the facts stated in his

GIVEN v. WRIGHT.
Opinion or the Cou.

opinion, we do not question, but we insist that it cannot be
possible that any maxim of law or reverence for authority
compels this court to perpetuate an accidental error, which
would make its ancient decisions and the opinion of its most
distinguished jurists declare the law, on vital and constitutional
questions, to be the reverse of the uniform rulings of the court
since 1830.
M-. 1uSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears from the record of the case of -ew Jersey v.
jlTilson, preserved in our files, that the act of 1796, authorizing
the lands to be leased out, was not brought to the attention of
this court. Whether, if it had been, it would have affected the
judgment of this court is uncertain. It probably would not
have done so, and we must assume it to be res I udicata that
in 1805 (when the case of NLew Jersey v Milson arose), the
lands remained exempt from taxation in the hands of the
purchasers.
We do not feel disposed to question -the decision in New
Jersey v Wilson. It has been referred to and relied on in so
many cases from the day of its rendition down to the present
time, that it would cause a shock to our constitutional jurisprudence to disturb it now If the question were a new one
we might regard the reasoning of the New Tersey judges as
entitled to a great deal of weight, especially since the emphatic
declarations made by this court in Providence Bank v Billings, 1 Pet. 514, and other cases, as to the necessity of having
the clearest legislative expression in order to impair the taxing
power of the State. See the cases collected in licksbzrrg &c.
.RacilroadCo. v Dennis, 116 U. S. 665, 668.
The question, then, will be, whether the long acquiescence
of the land owners under the imposition of taxes, raises a presumption that the exemption, which once existed, has been
surrendered.
This question. by itself, would be a mere question of State
municipal law, and would not involve any appeal to the Constitution or laws of the United States. But where it is charged,

OCTOBER TERMN,

1885.

Opinion of the Court.

that the obligation of a contract has been impaired by a State
law, as in this case by the general tax law of New Jersey as
administered by the State authorities, and the State courts
justify such impairment by the application of some general rule
of law to the facts of the case, it is our duty to inquire whether
the justification is well grounded. If it is not, the party is entitled to the benefit of the constitutional protection. JXbtrdok
v .7empqs, 20 Wall. 590, 636, Proposition 6.
We have carefully read the evidence in this case, and are
satisfied that the lands were regularly assessed for taxes, and
that the taxes were paid without objection from 1814, or about
that time, down to 1876, the time of the assessment complained of-a period of sixty years. If an exemption from
taxation can be lost in any case, by long acquiescence under
the imposition of taxes, it would seem that an acquiescence of
sixty years, and, indeed, a much shorter period, would be
amply sufficient for this purpose, by raising a conclusive presumption of a surrender of the privilege. An easement may
be lost by nonuser in twenty years. and even in a less time if
it ]s affected by positive acts of invasion. A franchise may be
lost in the same way, nonuser being one of the common
grounds assigned as a cause of forfeiture. 3 Bl. Com. 262.
Exemption from taxation being a special privilege granted by
the government to an individual, either in gross, or as appurtenant to his freehold, is a franchise. Nonuser for sixty,
or even thirty years, may well be regarded as presumptive
proof of its abandonment or surrender. The present case is a
strong one. The nonuser consists of acquiescence in actual
taxation, or an actual invasion of the franchise, year by year,
for a period of years reaching almost beyond the memory of
man. It is not merely a case of nonuser, but one of disaffirmance of the privilege for this long period.
If the franchise were one which affected adversely the rights
of other individuals, they might not be able to question its
validity in a collateral proceeding. But it is set up against the
government itself, whilst exercising one of its most important
-prerogatives. We see no reason why, in such a case, the
government may not claim the benefit of lapse of time as a

DAVIESS COUNTY v. DICKINSON.
Syllabus.

ground of presumption of the surrender of the franchise,
though the same period of nonuser would be a ground of forfeiture in a direct proceeding on the part of the State to revoke
the franchise. We think the reasoning of the Supreme Court
of New Jersey in this case is entirely satisfactory

The judgment is aljirmed.

DAVIESS COUNTY v. DICKIISON.
ERROR TO THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Argued March 22, 1886.-Decided April 12, 1886.

Astatute of Kentucky authorized a county court to subscribe to such an
amount as it might determine in the stock of a railroad company, and to
levy the taxes necessary to pay for the stock so subscribed, or to issue bonds
of the county for the amount, the bonds to be in such sums and payable at
such times as the comity court might determine, but provided that a
proposition to subscribe for stock to an amount to be suggested and fixed
by commissioners named in the statute should be first submitted to the
voters of the county, and approved by a majority of the votes cast. The
county court, upon the suggestion of those commissioners, submitted to
the voters a proposition to subscribe for $250,0C0 of the stock, and, in
obedience to their vote, ordered that the county court subscribe that
amount, and that bonds to that amount, for sums and payable at times
specified in the order, with the signatures of the presiding judge and the
clerk of the county court and the seal of the county, should be sold or disposed of by a committee appointed for the purpose, and a list of them
entered upon the records of the county. The presiding judge and clerk issued such bonds for a greater amount, so signed and sealed, and with a
certificate on the back of each, signed by the judge only, that it was issued
as authorized by the statute and by an order of the county court in pursuance thereof. All the bonds as they were delivered were entered upon the
records of the county court, in a register open to public inspection. Held,
That the county court had power to issue bonds to the amount of $250,000
only, that the bonds issued in excess of that amount were unlawful and
void, even as against a purchaser before maturity, for value, and without
notice of the over-issue; that the bonds to that amount, wich were first
delivered, were the valid ones, and that the county was not estopped to
deny the validity of the others, either by the certificate endorsed thereon
by the judge, or by payment of interest on all the bonds.
vOL. cxV--42

