KNAPP v. HOMEOPATHIC

UTUAL LIFE INS. CO. 411

Statement of Faqts.

KNAPP v.

IOMEOPATHIC MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF iASSACHUSETTS.
Submitted March 16, 1886.-Decided April 5, 1886.

A policy of insurance, made to a wife on the life of her husband, contained
this clause: "This policy of insurance, after two annual premiums shall
have been paid thereon, shall not be forfeited or become void by reason of
the nonpayment of premiums; but the party insured shall be entitled to
have it continued in force for a period to be determined as follows, to wit:
The net value of the policy when the premium becomes due and is not
paid shall be ascertained according to the combined experience or actuaries'
rate of mortality, with interest at four per cent. per annum. Four fifths
of such net value shall)be considered as a net single premium of temporary
insurance, and the term for winch it will insure shall be determined according to the age of the party at the time of the lapse of premium, and
the assumption of mortality and interest aforesaid; or at his option may
receive a paid up policy for the full amount of premium paid Provided,
That unless this policy shall be surrendered and such paid up policy shall
be applied for within ninety days after such nonpayment of premium as
aforesaid, then this policy shall be void and of no effect." Held, that the
words "paid up policy," in the proviso, included an insurance for the
amount of the original policy for a time computed according to its net
value at the time of the failure to pay a premium, as well as an insurance
for the term of the original policy for an amount computed according to
the premiums paid; and that the wife was not entitled to have the policy
continued or renewed in either form, without surrendering it and applying
for a new policy within ninety days after the nonpayment of a premium.
Held, also, that the rights of the parties were not affected by the husband
having procured a cancellation of the original policy by fraudulently representing that the wife was dead.

This was an action brought March 19, 1878, by a citizen of
Massachusetts against a corporation established by the laws of
New York, upon a policy of insurance, by which the company,
consideration of the representations made to themin the
application for this policy, which is hereby made a part of this
contract, and of the sum of $47.40 to them in hand paid by
Abby Knapp, wife of Charles L. Knapp, and' of the quarterly
payment of a like amount on or before the sixteenth days of
Cin

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Statement of Facts.

July, October, January and April in every year during the
continuance of this policy," insured the life of the husband, for
the sole use of the wife, m the amount of $5000 for the term
of his natural life, beginning on April 16, 1869, payable at the
office of the company in New York to her, if living, in thirty
days after notice and proof of hus death.
The application declared that "neglect to pay the premium
on or before the day it becomes due shall and will render the
policy null and void, and forfeit all payments made thereon,
unless otherwise specially provided for in the policy"
The policy contained the following clause "This policy of
insurance, after two annual premiums shall have been paid
thereon, shall not be forfeited or become void by reason of the
*nonpayment of premium, but the party insured shall be entitled to have it -continued in force for a period to be determined
as follows, to wit The net value of the policy when the premium becomes due and is not paid shall be ascertained according to the 'combined experience' or actuaries' rate of mortality, with interest at four per cent. per annum. Four fifths
of such net value shall be considered as a net single premium
of temporary insurance, and the term for which it will insure
shall be determined according to the age of the party at the
time of the lapse of premium and the assumptions of mortality
and interest aforesaid, or at his option may receive a paid up
policy for the full amount of premium paid. Provided, that
unless this policy shall be surrendered and such paid up policy
shall be applied for within ninety days after such nonpayment
as aforesaid, then this policy shall be void and of no effect."
A trial by jury having been duly waived, the Circuit Court
found the following facts The policy was issued April 14,
1869, in the city of New York, where the husband and wife
then lived. It was taken out by the husband, who signed the
application in the wife's name as her attorney It was in the
possession of the wife in 18'(1, and of the husband before and
afterwards. The premiums were paid for several years, mostly
by the husband, but one or two by the wife. She lived apart
from her husband nearly all the time after February, 1872.
On January 16, 1874, a premium became due and was not

KNAPP v. HOMEOPATHIC MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. 413
Opinion of the Court.
paid. On February 26, 1874, the husband represented to the
company that his wife was dead, the company believed the
representation. to be true, and he surrendered the policy, taking
from the company $260 in money, and a new policy, concerning which the only evidence was that it had -been forfeited
before his death, which happened September 17, 1874. Very
soon after his death, the wife sent to the company for information about the policy, and her agent was told by the company
that it was forfeited. A considerable time after this, being
advised that she might have some rights under the policy she
gave due notice and proof of loss, and more than thirty days
afterwards brought this action to recover the full amount insured. The net value of the policy when the nonpayment of
the premium occurred, if reckoned in the mode pointed out in
the policy, would have been sufficient to continue it in force
until after the death of the husband.
On these facts, the Circuit Court ruled as matter of law that
the policy was forfeited by the neglect to pay the premiums
and .to call for a paid up policy, and rendered judgment for the
defendant, and allowed a bill of exceptions tendered by the
plaintiff.
X[r Samuel IF Oliford J
for plaintiff in error.

and .Xr .ark

A. Blaisdell

XP Stillman B. Allen and .Mr Alfred Hemmenway for
defendant in error.
M . JusTicE G.AY, after stating the case as above reported,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The cancelling of the policy, in consequence of the husband's
fraudulent representation that the wife was dead, had no effect
upon her rights. It is not relied on by the defendant, and
there is nothing in the case to show that it in any way
influenced the conduct of the plaintiff by preventing her from
paying the premiums or making the election required by the
policy
The contract of insurance,'made and to be performectin-New

OCTOBER TERAI, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

York, between a corporation and a citizen of that State, is to
be governed by the law of New York. By that law, in respect
to the payment of or the neglect to pay premiums, a married
woman stands like any other person insured. Baker v. Unnmo
In. Co., 43 N. Y 283. And there is no statute which affects
this case.
The decision, therefore, depends upon the true construction
of the nonforfeiture clause in the policy
The single purpose of this clause is that, after two annual
premiums shall have been paid, a failure to pay any subsequent
premium shall not have the effect of avoiding the whole insurance, but the assured shall have the right to an insurance for
such a sum and such a time as the premiums already paid
would equitably cover. The policy does not declare that it
shall continue of itself, without any act of the assured. On the
contrary, it stipulates that "the party insured shall be entitled
to have it continued in force for a period to be determined"
by ascertaining, according to certain rules, the net value of the
policy at the time of failure to pay a premium, and making the
amount of that value, considered as a single premium, the basis
for determining the time for which there shall be a temporary
insurance for the full amount of the original policy It then
prescribes an alternative by which the party insured, "at his
option, may receive a paid up policy for the full amount of
premium paid."
In short, the forfeiture of the policy, by a failure to pay any
premium after the first two, is not absolute, but qualified, and
the party insured is entitled to be insured according to the sum
already paid in premiums, either for the full amount of the
original policy, so long as that sum would pay for it, or else
for the full term of the original policy for such amount as that
sum would pay for.
Then follows the proviso "that unless tins policy shall be
surrendered and such paid up policy shall be applied for within
ninety days after such. nonpayment as aforesaid, then this policy
shall be void and of no effect."
It is contended on behalf of the plaintiff, that the words
"such paid up policy" show that this provision refers only to

MARSHALL v, HUBBARD.
Syllabus.

a new insurance determined by the second method, that is, for
the full term of the original policy, and for an amount depending upon the sum already paid in premiums, and that if the
assured does not seasonably apply for such an insurance, she
still remains insured for the full amount for a time computed
according to the sum paid.
But the proviso does not say that, upon a failure to surrender
the original policy and to apply for a paid up policy, the original
policy shall stand good for a temporary insurance, but that it
"shall be void and of no effect." The result of either of the
two methods already prescribed, for determining the extent of
the insurance, is a paid up policy According to either method,
there is to be no further payment of premium, nor is the original policy continued in force, but the assured is to have the
benefit of the sum already paid in premiums, by being insured,
either for the amount of the original policy for a time to be determned, or for the time of the original policy for an amount
to be determinaed. Taking the whole clause together, it is clear
that the assured is to have the benefit of that sum in one of
two ways at her election, and that election must be made
within a certain time. As that time expired without any election, or any excuse for not making one, the forfeiture became
complete under the express provisions of the policy, and the
Circuit Court rightly held that the action could not be maino
tained.
,Tudgment aflrmed.

MARSHALL v. HUBBARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT coURT
EASTERN

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR TE

DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.

Argued January11, 1886.-Decided March 2, 1886.

In order to recover for injuries caused by false representations, through winch

plaintiff was induced to perform an act and was m3ured thereby, it is necessary to establish the making of the false representations by defendant;
that he knew them to be false and uttered them with intent to deceive

