PH(ENIX LIFE INSURANCE CO. v. WALRATH. 365
Statement of Facts.

interest thereon from the day last aforesaid, which, although
then and there demanded, remains due and unpaid."
The defendants demurred to the declaration. The demurrer
was overruled and judgment entered for the amount claimed
and costs, which judgment was affirmed by the Circuit Court
on appeal. This writ of error was brought to review the latter judgment.
-Jfr T fubley Ashton for plaintiff in error.
.Harlandfiled a brief for same.

MY' Thomas

Attorney General 3fVaury for defendant in
M71r A stant
error, submitted on the brief of .-M Solicitor General.
MfR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE

delivered the opinion of the court.

This judgment is reversed on the authority of fason v.
Sargent, 104 U. S. 689. and the cause remanded, with instructions to reverse the judgment of the District Court and to send
the case back to that court for further proceedings according
to law
.Reversed.

PH(EINIX LIFE INSURANCE COMPAN-Y v.
WALRATII.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF TEE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF WISCONSIN.
Submitted March 25, 1886.-Decided March 29, 1886.

The right to remove a suit from a State court to a Circuit Court of the United
States, being once lost by reason of non-user "before or at the term at
which said cause could be first tried and before the trial thereof," is not
revived by a subsequent amendment of the pleadings wich creates new
and different issues:

This suit was commenced July 19, 1880, in the Circuit Court
for Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, by the plaintiff in error
against the defendant in error to recover sums of money

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

alleged to have been received by him as its agent and con-

verted to his own use, and was put at issue August 26, 1880,
by a plea of the general issue. At the trial in February, 1881,
evidence offered by defendant was objected to on the ground
that the defence which it disclosed should have been specially
pleaded. Defendant then moved for leave to file a special
plea, and the motion was denied. A verdict was then taken
for plaintiff, and judgment entered, May 2, 1881, on the verdict.
The Supreme Court of the State, on appeal, reversed the judgment in October, 1881, and remanded the cause for a new trial.
The defendant in April, 1882, moved for leave to file an
amended answer, which was granted, and plaintiff given time to
reply to it. Pending this grant of time, plaintiff filed a petition
to remove the case to the Circuit Court of the United States,
on the ground that the petitioner "at the date of the commencement of the above entitled action, and long prior thereto,
was, and still is, a corporation organized and existing under
and by virtue of the laws of the State of Connecticut, and that
the defendant was and is a citizen of the State of Wisconsin."
The petition was granted and the case removed. In the
Circuit Court of the United States, on motion of the defendant
the cause was remanded to the State court. The plaintiff sued
out this writ of error to review that judgment.
Xr George P .Miller for plaintiff in error.
_Yr James G Jenkmns for defendant in error.
delivered the opinion of the court.
The order remanding this case is affirmed. The right to the
removal of a suit under the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 47T0,
ch. 137, is lost bv a failure to file a petition "before or at the
term at which said cause could be first tried and before the
trial thereof," and it is not restored by an amendment of the
pleadings afterwards so as to present different issues. As was
said in abblitt v Clark, 103 U. S.606, 612, "the act of Congress does not provide for the removal of a cause at the first
term at which a trial can be had on the issues, as finally
MR.CHIEF ff1UscE WAITE

EX PARTE PH(ENIX INSURANCE CO.
Statement of Facts.

settled by leave of the court or otherwise, but at the first term
at which the cause, as a cause, could be tried." This rule has
been strictly adhered to. Edrmngton v Jefferson, 111 U. S.770,
775, Pullman Palace Car Co. v ,Speck, 113 U. S. 84, 87,
Gi'egory v H7-artley, 113 U. S. 742, 745. Here the suit was begun
July 19, issue joined August 26, 1880, and a trial had February
23, 1881, which resulted in a verdict and judgment for the
present plaintiff in error. This judgment was reversed by an
appellate court October 19, 1881, and the causesent back for
a new trial. In the trial court an amended answer which contained a counter-claim was filed on leave May 20, 1882, and
the petition for removal was not filed until September la, 1882.
This was clearly too late.
A firmed.

EX PARTE PH(EIIX INSURANCE COMPANY &
Others.
ORIGINAL.
Argued March 22-,1886.-Decided March 29, iSS6.

Distinct decrees against 1istinct parties, on distinct causes of action, or on a
single cause of action in which there are distinct liabilities, cannot be
joined to give this court jurisdiction on appeal.

Rule to show cause why a writ of mandamus should not
issue to the judges of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Vermont, commanding them to allow an
appeal from decrees and rulings made by that court in a suit
in equity, in which the petitioners were respondents, and Robert Fitton and Helen M. Fitton his wife were complainants.
The relief sought in the bill was the discovery of certain policies of insurance made by the Phcemx Insurance Company, the
Guardian Fire and Life Insurance Company, the North British
Mercantile Insurance Company, and the Commercial Union
Assurance Company through their agent, and that the defendants might be decreed to pay the complainant the sum of

