OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

defendant has infringed such a re-stated valid claim of a reissue, the plaintiff, on filing a disclaimer of the new and invalid
clauns of the reissue, may have a decree, without costs, for the
infringement of such valid claim, where there has been no unreasonable delay in entering the disclaimer.
There can be no doubt that claim 4 of the reissue was
invalid, as'an unlawful expansion of the original patent, on an
application for the reissue fied more than five years after the
original patent was granted. But the patent has expired, and,
therefore, no disclaimer can now be filed. There was no unreasonable delay in filing a disclaimer, as the validity of claim
4 was sanctioned by the Commissioner of Patents in granting
the reissue, and this suit was commenced in July, 1872, and
the claim was not held invalid by the Circuit Court (both the
interlocutory and final decrees having been entered before the
decisions of this court, at October Term, 1881, on the subject
of reissued patents were made). The result, therefore, is, that
The decree below must be reversed as to the award of costs,
and q/lairmed sn all other respects, with 'tterest until paid,
at the same rate per annum. that decrees bear m the courts
of the State of Hew Y-ork, and the case be remanded to the
Circuit Court, with a direction to modify the decree accordingly. -Each _party will bear his own costs zn this
court and one-half of the expense of prsntzng the record.
Silsby v Foote, 20 How 378, 387.

YALE LOCK MANUFACTURING COMPANTY v.
GREENLEAF
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 16, 1886.-Decided March 29,1886.

The scope of letters patent must be limited to the invention covered by the
claim; the claim may be illustrated, but it cannot be enlarged by language
used m other parts of the specification.

YALE LOOK COMPANY v. GREENLEAF
Opinion of the Court.
The change made by George Rosner in the devices used m previous combinations for the purposes described in his application for a patent in September, 1860, were such as would occur to an unskilled mechanic, and were
not inventions within the meaning of the patent laws.
The first claim in the patent 30092, September 18, 1860, Reissue 4488, July
25, 1871, granted to George losner, was anticipated by the application and
specification of D. 1:.Rickards filed March 13, 1852, and by locks manufactured by Evans & Watson in 1853.

This was a bill in equity brought by the-appellee, Halbert S.
Greenleaf, to restrain the infringement by the appellant, the
Yale Lock Manufacturing Company, of the ffrst and fourth
claims of the reissued letters patent granted to George Rosner,
July 25, 1871, for an "improvement in permutation locks."
The original patent bore date September 18, 1860.
The defence was that the alleged invention and substantial and
material parts thereof claimed as new, were, prior to any invention thereof by said George iRosner, known and publicly used
by divers persons in this country, and that among such 'persons
were D. H. Rickards, of Boston, and the firm of Evans
& Watson, of Philadelphia.
The Circuit Court decided that the patent was valid, and
that the defendant had infringed, and, upon the report of a
master of the damages sustained by the plaantiff, rendered a
decree in his favor for $2968.50. The present appeal brings
that decree under review
.Yr Freder

H. .BetMfor appellant.

Xr George Ticknor Curtis and X" Edmund Wetmore for
appellee.
M r. JUSTICE WOODs delivered the opinion of the court.
It is conceded that the damages for which the court rendered
its decree were allowed for the infringement of the first claim
only of the Rosner patent, which, therefore, is alone to be considered upon this appeal.
The invention covered by this claim was described as follows
in the specification
"This invention consists in combining with a set.of permu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

tation wheels or tumblers, constructed each of a rnm and center, an arrangement of bolts or equivalent devices, which fasten
and unfasten said rims and centers by the use of a key inserted
through holes in the cams in the wheels, by which said bolts or
equivalent devices are operated, the effect being to enable the
relative position of the rims and centers to be changed so as to
make a new combination, by moving the driving pins to different positions relatively to the slots in the wheels. It further
consists in the arrangement of parts as hereinafter described.
"Prior to my invention, in order to change the combination,
where a single set of wheels only was used, made up each of a
center hub and rim, the wheels had to be removed from the
lock and adjusted by hand and then replaced.
"I obviate this difficulty by the following arrangement
Opposite the center or hub q of each wheel, and located in the
outer rim, I place a locking device or bolt, r, which, when forced
in against the said center or hub, holds the same firmly in place
with the outer rim, but, when thrown out, disengages said
parts and allows the centers to turn free while the rims remain
stationary Against the locking device or bolt r rests a cam
or eccentric, s. Through each or all of these cams, and also
through the back plate of the lock, is inserted a key P, Fig. 6,
by turning which it will be seen that said locking or fastening
device may be forced in or drawn out at pleasure. When the
key is inserted and the fastening device thrown back, it will
be seen that the rims of the wheels are held stationary by the
key, while the centers may be turned to any different position
by the spindle, thus setting the lock to a new combination.
"The novelty in the first part of my invention consists in
the combination of the fastening devices r with the wheels,
constructed of three parts each, an outer rim and a center or
hub composed of two parts, secured together so that by inserting the key the parts composing the wheels may be loosened and
the outer rims held stationary, while the centers or hubs are
turned to a different position by the action of the spindle, to
rearrangeothe combination, and then the parts locked in place

YALE LOCK COMPANY v. GREENLEAF
Opinion of the Court.

again, and all accomplished without removing the wheels themselves from the lock. In all prior locks with a single set of
wheels (each wheel made up of a rim and center hub), so far as
I am aware, the wheels had to be removed from the lock and
the combination changed by hand.
"What I claim, and desire to secure by letters-patent, is"1. In a permutation lock, in combination with a set of
wheels consisting each of an outer ring or rim and a central
disc or hub, a set of fastening devices or bolts, r r,which is
made to fasten or unfasten said parts composing the wheels, by
the insertion of a key through each or all of the wheels, whereby
the combination of the lock may be changed, substantially as
herein specified."
The testimony showed that on the 13th of Mfarch, 1852, the
D. H. Rickards named in the answer of the defendant, filed m
the Patent Office an application for a patent for an improvement in locks, which was either rejected or withdrawn, and that
locks made substantially m accordance with the description
contained m iRickards' specification were manufactured and
sold by Evans & Watson, safe-makers, of Philadelphia as early
as the year 1853. A copy of the application of Rickards is
found in the record, and one of the locks made by Evans &
Watson in 1853 was produced as an exhibit upon the trial in
this court.
A comparison of the specification and model of the plaintiff's
patent with the application of Rickards and the lock made by
Evans & Watson shows that the device of Rickards and the
lock of Evans & Watson were an anticipation of the invention
covered by the first claim of the plaintiff's patent.
It is clear from the statement in the specification of Rosner's
patent that he believed that prior to his invention it was necessary, in order to change the combination in a permutation lock,
to remove the wheels from the lock-case and adjust them by
hand and then replace them.
But Rosner was in error in making this statement. The evidence shows that what Rosner thought had never been done
before had been done by means of the device of Rickards, em-

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

bodied in the lock of Evans & Watson, which is substantially
the same contrivance as that covered by the first claim of Rosner's patent.
The Rickards device embraces a set of wheels consisting of
an outer rim or hub and a set of fastening devices or bolts, so
constructed as to engage and disengage with a set of cogs on
the central hub. When the bolts are in place the outer rim
and the central hub are firmly fastened together, when withdrawn the hub may be made to revolve without moving the
rim. The bolts are withdrawn by means of a key Each of
the wheels has an opening in it for the passage of the key by
which the bolts are moved, these openings in the wheels are
placed opposite each other and also opposite a key-hole in the
lock-ease, so that the key may be passed from the exterior of
the lock-case through all the wheels, and thus withdraw the
bolts which fasten the rims to the hubs of the wheels, thereby
permitting the hubs to be moved and a change to be made in
the combination of the lock. When the change is made the
key is withdrawn and the bolts are forced back into their places
by springs. By this means the combination of the lock is
changed without removing the wheels from the lock case, or
even opening the case.
The only difference between the Rosner device and that of
Rickards, which the plaintiff's counsel have been able to point
out, is thus stated in the Rosner contrivance the key, in addition to locking and unlocking the fastening devices, performs,
when in the lock, the function of holding the outer rims in place
while the combination of the lock is changed by moving the
hubs. It is insisted that this key is adapted to perform this
office by the fact that it fits snugly the series of holes in the
rims of the wheels through which it passes, and thereby prevents any motion of the rims.
The IRickards device has a key-hole in the lock-case which the
key neatly fits. But the holes in the rims of the wheels through
which the key passes are irregular apertures, not fitted to the
shape or size of the key, so that they allow some motion to the
rims of the wheels.
We think this difference between the two locks does not give

DIMOCK

v,REVERE COPPER COMPANY.

559

Statement of Facts.

validity to the Rosner patent, for two reasons First, because
the shape and size of the key-hole is not mentioned in the
claim of the iRosner patent, as one of the elements of the combination. The scope of letters-patent muft be limited to the
invention covered by the claim, and while the claim may be illustrated it Cannot be enlarged by language used in other parts
of the specification.
-eystone Bridge Co. v Phomm Iron Co.,.
95 U. S. 274, Railroad Co. v. Xellon, 104 U. S. 112. Secondly,
if it were found to be necessary to hold the rims of the
wheels rigidly immovable while the combination of the lock
was being changed, the idea of changing the irregular aperture in the wheels through which the key in the Rickards device was thrust to one of the shape and size of the key would:
occur to the rudest and most unskilled mechanic. The suggestion of such a change could not be called invention, and ought
not to be dignified by letters-patent. Atlantic TWorks v Brady,
107 U. S.192, Slawson v Grand Street Railroad Co., 107 U
S. 649, Phillips v -Detroit,111 U. S. 604.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the first claim of the
plaintiff's patent was anticipated by the application and specification of Rickards and- by the locks manufactured by Evans
&. Watson, and that it is, therefore, void. It follows that
The decree of the Circuit Court must he reversed, and the
cause remanded, with directions to dismss the bill.

DIMOCK v. REVERE COPPER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Argued March 22, 1886.-Decided April 5,1886.

A discharge in bankruptcy is no bar to an action on a judgment recovered
against the bankrupt after his discharge m a suit, commenced before the
bankruptcy, pending when the discharge was granted, and founded upon
a debt provable against hin in bankruptcy.

This case came here by a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of lNew York, having been decided in the Court of Appeals,

