CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y CO. v. OHLE. 123
Opnon of the Court.

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. OHLE.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Submitted January 25, 1886.-Decided iarch 1, 1886.
A citizen of one State who in good faith gives up his residence there, goes to
another State, and takes up a permanent residence therein, loses his former
citizenship and acquires citizenship in the new place of domiciL
On the facts in this case the court properly left it to the jury, and by proper
instructions, to decide whether the defendant in errorhad acquired a citizenship in Illinois, and if so when that citizenship was acquired.
An affidavit made by an officer of a railway company on information and belief
as to the citizenship of the plaintiff, in a suit in a State court against the
company, and filed therein for the purpose of requiring security for costs,
is admissible against the company in an issue made in the Circuit Court of
the United States after removal of the cause there, on the motion of the
plaintiff to have it remanded.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
-M.21r
in error.

XM.Rubbard and Mr Charles A. Clark for plaintiff

M71r George G Wrtght and _M? S. S. Burdett for defendant
in error.

:MRi. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error brought under section 5 of the act of
March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. 470, ch. 137, to reverse an order of the
Circuit Court remanding a case which had been removed from
a -State court. The suit was brought in a State court of Iowa
on the 19th of November, 1883, by Oble, the defendant in
error, described in the petition as a citizen of Illinois, against
the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company, an Illinois
corporation, to recover damages for an injury sustained by him

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

while a laborer on a construction train of the railway company
in Iowa. On the 1st of March, 1884, the company petitioned
for the removal of the suit to the Circuit Court of the United
States, on the ground that Ohle was a citizen of Iowa and the
railway company a citizen of Illinois. The case was docketed
in the Circuit Court of the United States May 13, 1884, and
the next day, May 14, Ohle moved to remand, because both
he and the company were citizens of the same State. On the
22d of May he was given leave to file a plqa in abatement or
to the jurisdiction, which he did August 29, 1884, alleging that
both he and the company were citizens of Illinois. Upon this
plea issue was joined, and a trial had with a jury, October 30,
1884. On the trial it appeared that, at the time of the injury,
Ohle was a minor, having his home with his parents, who were
citizens of Iowa, residing at Burlington, in that State. While
still a minor, he brought suit, by his next friend, in a State
court of Iowa, against the company to recover damages for his
injury This suit was removed by the company to the Circuit
Court of the United States. Before any trial was had, and
in April, 1883, Ohle went to Janesville, Wisconsin, to attend
school for the purpose of learning telegraphy In October,
1883, he went from the school to Des Moines, Iowa, to attend
a trial of his suit, and the trial resulted in a disagreement of
the jury He then went to visit his parents in Burlington, and
stayed about a week. After the disagreement of the jury, he
discontinued his suit, and, about the 6th of November, went to
Chicago, Illinois, where he remained until about the 27th of
November. While he was in Chicago at this time, the present
suit was begun, and the simple question presented on the trial
of the issue, made by the reply to the plea to the jurisdiction,
was, whether he had actually, and in good faith, given up his
citizenship in Iowa and acquired a new citizenship in Illinois
before this suit was brought. He was the only witness sworn.
He testified in substance, that when he went to Chicago he intended to make that his home. It is true, in a subsequent part
of his testimony, he said this was done so as to prevent the
railroad company from removing any other suit he might bring
in Iowa to the courts of the United States, but, according to

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y CO. v. OHLE. 125
Opimon of the Court.

his testimony, he then, being of full age, did leave Iowa with
the bonaX
fide intention of abandoning his citizenship in that
State and gaining another in Illinois. He has never gone back
to Iowa to reside. Hie was of age, and had the right to abandon one residence and take up another. He took a room in
Chicago, and remained there three weeks. Before this was
done, the manager of the school in Tanesville, where he was
being taught, had engaged employment for him in Chicago,
which he was to enter upon as soon as he had finished his edacation. After his suit was brought he went from Chicago to
the school in Janesville, with the intention, as he says, of'returning when he had got through with his education. Tie did
go back on the 13th of March, 1881, took up the work for
which he had been engaged, and remained there all the time
doing that work until he was sworn at the trial of the issue on
the plea to the jurisdiction in this case. Tie was examined
fully by counsel for both parties. Some things which he testified to had a tendency to prove that he did .not, in good
faith, go to Chicago with the intention, at that time, of abandoning his citizenship in Iowa and acquiring another in Illinois.
In the course of the trial, also, Ohle offered in evidence an
affidavit, filed in the case on behalf of the company, for the
purpose of requiring him to give security for costs because he
was a non-resident of Iowa. That affidavit was as follows
"I, Ti. G. Burt, being first duly sworn, on oath say That I
am the superintendent of the Iowa Division of the Chicago &
Northwestern Railway Company, which includes the main line
from Clinton, Iowa, to Council Bluffs, Iowa, together with several branches, that I am acquainted with the facts in regard
to the injury of Gus. B. Ohle, for which the above suit is
brought, and that the defendant has a good defence to the
entire claim made by the plaintiff in said cause, and that the
plaintiff is a non-resident of the State of Iowa, as he claims in
his petition in this case, and as I believe."
To the introduction of this affidavit the railway company
objected. This objection was overruled, and an exception
taken.

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

When the evidence was closed the railway company asked
the court to charge the jury as follows
"2. In order to acquire a domicile and citizenslp in Illinois
the defendant must have gone there in November, 1883, with
the intention of remaining there permanently then, it was not
enough if his intention was to go on to Janesville and finish his
education there and then return to Illinois to remain permanently If such was not his intention his citizenship in Illinois
would only date from the time he in fact went there to stay
permanently, which, according to his own testimony, was
March 13th, 1884.
"3. It is shown by the uncontroverted testimony of the
plaintiff that he was a citizen of Iowa before he went to Janesville for the temporary purpose of acquiring an education in
telegraphy, that in November, 1883, when it is claimed he
changed his citizenship, he went to Chicago, in the State of
Illinois, on his way to Janesville to complete his studies, that
he remained iR Chago only temporarily at that time, and did
not go to Illinois permanently until March 13th, 18841. Under
these circumstances the jury are instructed as a matter of law
that plaintiff did not become a citizen of Illinois until the date
last named, namely, March 13th, 1884."
These requests were refused, but the court did charge, among
other things, in these words
"12. Now the point that you are to decide, gentlemen, is this
Did the plaintiff, Gus. B. Ohle, at any time leave the State of
Iowa for the purpose of taking up, actually and in good faith,
his residence and citizenship in Illinois? Now, I use the word
residence, meaning this It would not be sufficient merely to
show that he went and resided in the sense of living in Illinois.
Residence is evidence of the citizenship. You are ultimately
to find whether he became a citizen of Illinois. In deciding
that question you have a right to consider what he did in the
matter of residence, that is, where he actually lived, the place
he occupied, what we ordinarily mean by the term living.
Now, it is claimed on the part of Ohle that he went to Chicago in November, 1883, that it was his intent to remove to
the State of Illinois, and with the purpose of completing his

CHICAGO & NORTHWESTERN R'Y CO. v. OIFLE. 127

Opinion of the Court.
education by going through this school at Janesville, and then
pursuing his vocation in life inthe State of Illinois. Now, if
he did in good faith leave the State of Iowa, give up the citizenship here, going to Chicago, Illinois, with the idea of taking
up his citizenship there, did actually do that in good faith,
although he may at that time have had it in his mind, and he
did actually go to Janesville to complete his education, that
would not defeat his acquiring his citizenship in the State of
Illinois at the time he actually went there in November, provided you find, remember, gentlemen, that he bad the intent at
that time, bonaftde, actual intent, of settling in Illinois. Now,
you are to determine this under the evidence that has been submitted to you, you are to determine whether, at that time, he
then had the honest intent of changing his residence. If he did,
and he went over there with that purpose, with that intent,
and remained in Chicago for whatever time the evidence shows,
some two or three weeks, it is for you to determine the question as to that. If that was his object and intent it would justify you in finding that he had acquired a citizenship there.
The fact that he then went to Xanesville to complete his education would no more defeat his citizenship in Illinois than it
would defeat his citizenship in Iowa if he had still retained that
citizenship.
"It then remains for you to determine the object and intent
that he then had.
"13. Now, it is contended on the part of the defendant that
he did not acquire citizenship in Chicago until he went there
in March, 1884, after he had completed his schooling in Tanesville. Now, if he did not, if that was the first time that he
actually went to Chicago with the intent to remain there and
take up his citizenship and his residence there, why then you
would have to find that that was the time that he lost his citizenship in Iowa and acquired it in Illinois. Therefore, as I say,
the question is what was his intent. By way of illustration, if
when he went to the city of Chicago in November, 1883, his
object and purpose were simply to go through Chicago to Janesville to complete his education, with the intention some time
in the future, after he had completed his education, of going

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

back to Illinois, then he would not acquire his citizenship until
he actually went there, but if, when he went in 1883, he went
with the intention of actually changing his residence and acquiring a citizenship in Chicago, Illinois, then, if you find that
to be the fact, you are justified in finding that at the time he
changed his citizenship within the meaning of the questions
involved in this case."
The company in due time excepted to the last paragraph in
the charge beginning with the words "By way of illustration"
and continuing until the end, and to the refusals to charge as
requested.
The jury found that Ohle was a citizen of Illinois when the
suit was begun, and the court thereupon remanded the cause.
This writ of error was brought to reverse an order to that
effect, and the errors assigned are
1. That the court erred in refusing to charge as requested,
2. That it erred in that part of the charge as given which
was excepted to, and
3. That it erred in admitting the affidavit objected to in
evidence.
The charge as given covered the requests that were made.
It stated clearly to the jury what was necessary in order to
make a change of citizenship, and we are unable to find anything wrong in the rules which were laid down. The jury
were told as distinctly as it could be expressed in words that
Ohle did not gain a citizenship in Illinois when he went there
on the 6th of November, unless he did in good faith leave Iowa,
and giving up his residence there go to Illinois, and actually
and in good faith take up his permanent residence in that State
at that time. Clearly this covers the whole case, and as the
jury found that he had gaincd his citizenship in Illinois when
the suit was begun, the error, if any, was with the jury in its
verdict on the evidence and not with the court in its charge on
the law There is nothing in the requests to charge that is not
in the charge as given, except those parts of the requests which
imply a state of facts different from what the jury must have
found. There was certainly some evidence that when Ohle
went to Chicago on the 6th of November he intended to take

TENNESSEE v. WHITWORTH.
Statement of Facts.

up his home there at that time and actually did so. Such being
the case, it was not error to refuse to charge the jury that this
was not the fact. It is not for us to decide that the jury
brought in a wrong verdict under a correct charge if the record
shows, as it does, that there was some evidence to support the
finding which was made.
We see no error in the admission of the affidavit in evidence.
The affidavit having been filed in the cause by the company as
a ground for obtaining an order of the court in its favor, was
competent evidence against it on the trial of another issue, and
the fact that it was sworn on information and belief affected
only its weight and not its competency Pope v Allis, 115
U S. 363.
After the verdict the court had nothing to do but to remand
the suit, its order to that effect is consequently
Affimed.
-

TE=IYESSEE v. WR1ITWORTH.
ERROR TO

THE CIRUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Argued January 22, 1886.-Decided March 1, 1886.

A State statute incorporating a railroad company, which provides that the capital stock of the company shall be forever exempt from taxation and that
the road with all its fixtures and appurtenances shall be exempt from taxation for the period of twenty years and no longer, exempts the road its
fixtures and appurtenances from taxation only for the term named in the
act; but forever exempts shares in the capital stock of the company, in the
hands of the various holders, from taxation in the State.
When two railroad corporations, whose shares are by a State statute exempt
from taxation in the State, consolidate themselves into a new company under a State law which makes no provision to the contrary, and issue shares
in the new company in exchange for shares in the old company, the right
of exemption from taxation in the State passes into the new shares, and into
each of them.

This was a suit in mandamus brought by the State of Tennessee, in the Circuit Court of Davidson County, against
VOL. Cxvn-9

