340

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

time after the decision in that case had become known for
counsel to have applied for an order in the premises before the
end of that term, and before the record was printed. This was
not done.
The judgment is
Reversed, and the cause renandedfor further proceedings
not snconsztent with this opznson.

RAND v. WALKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUr COURT OF THE UNTITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted March 2, 18S6.-Decided March 22, 1886.
A bill for the assignment of dower brought in a State court alleged that A,
one of the defendants, in purchasing the property, acted as agent and trustee of B, and took and held title to the joint use and benefit of lmself and
B. The complainant and B were citizens of te same State , A was a citizen of a different State. The answers took no notice of these allegations.
Held, That the petition of A to remove the cause to the Circuit Court of
the United States should be denied, as B was a necessary party to the suit.
The right to take steps for the removal of a cause to a Circuit Court of the
United States on the ground of a separable controversy is confined to the
parties actually interested in such controversy.
After removal of a bill in equity from a State court to a Circuit Court of the
United States on motion of one of the respondents, the complainant filed a
cross-bill alleging that a judgment. obtained in the Circuit Court in a suit
in which she was not a party, after the removal, bad been obtained collusively and did not conclude her Held, That this presented no reason why
the cause, having been improperly removed, should not be remanded.

The case is stated in the opinion of the court.

3r W C. Goudy for appellant.
2fr

. S. Isham for appellee.

MR. CHIEF JUSTIE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal under ยง 5 of the act of March 3, 1875,

RAND v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

18 Stat. 470, ch. 137, from an order of the Circuit Court remanding a suit which had been removed from a State court.
The suit was brought in the Superior Court of Cook County on
the 4th of April, 1881, by Martha A. Walker, widow of Martin
0. Walker, deceased, a citizen of Illinois, against George C.
Rand, Jr., Charles E. Brown, Thomas Brown, and Henry G.
Tucker, citizens of New York, and John W Doane, Samuel
Otis Walker, Edward Stone Walker, Augustus L. Chetlain,.
and Charles Fargo, citizens of Illinois, foV an assignment of
dower in certain lots in Chicago. The bill charges that Martin 0. Walker died on the 28th of May, 1874, seized of the lots
described, and leaving Martha A. Walker, his widow, and the
defendants Walker, his sole heirs-at-law, that on the first of
August, 1874, Mrs. Walker, the widow, demanded of the heirs
an assignment of her dower. which was refused, that in the
beginning of the year 1875, the heirs conveyed the property to
the defendant Fargo, who went into possession and also refused
to assign dower, although requested, that the defendant Chetlain was administrator of the estate of the decedent, and that
he, in 1878, as such administrator, sold and conveyed the property to the defendant Rand. The bill then proceeds as follows
"And your oratrix charges on information and belief, and
avers the fact to be, that said Rand, in making said purchase,
acted in part as the agent and trustee of one John W Doane,
and took and held the title to said premises to and for the joint
use and benefit of himself and of the said Doane, and your
oratrix shows that ever since said last-mentioned conveyance
said Rand and Doane have entered into and enjoyed the possession of said premises, but that said Doane and Rand, though
often requested, have, ever since taking possession of said premises, wholly neglected and refused to set off and apportion to
your oratrix her dower therein, by reason whereof the said
Doane and Rand became, and still are, liable to your oratril
for damages for the detention of her dower in said premises
since said.second day of November, A.D. 1878.

"And your oratrix further shows that on or about the said
second day of November, A.D. 1878, said Fargo conveyed said

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

premises to Carrie Walker, wife of said Samuel 0. Walker, and
on said last-mentioned day, and as part of the same transaction, said Carrie Walker and Samuel 0. Walker conveyed said
premises to said Rand, as your oratrix charges in part, in trust
for said Doane, and that said Doane and Rand now hold said
premses free from all encumbrance, except the estate of dower
of your oratrix therein.
"And your oratrix insists that the said Samuel 0. Walker
and Edward S. Walker are liable unto your oratrix in damages
for the detention of her dower in said premises from the time
she demanded of them that her dower be set off in said premises until they conveyed said premises to said Fargo, to wit, the
first day of January, A.D. 1875, and that said Fargo is liable
to your oratrix in damages for the detention of her said dower
from said last-mentioned day till the second day of iNovember,
A.D. 1878, and that said Doane and Rand are liable to your
oratrix for damages for the like detention of her said dower
rights in said premises from said second day of November, A.D.
1878."
It is then stated that the premises were subject to the lien of
a deed of trust made to Charles E. Brown, in favor of Chaunc'ey Tucker, now deceased, Henry G. Tucker, and Thomas
Brown, but it is alleged that, for reasons set forth, this lien is
no longer a charge on the property as against the dower which
is claimed.
The defendants Brown and Tucker answered the bill on the
20th of June, 1881, denying the allegation that their deed of
trust had in any manner been discharged as a lien on the
property superior to the dower of -Mrs.Walker. On the 26th
of August, 1881, the defendants Doane and Rand filed a joint
general demurrer to the bill. Separate demurrers of the same
character were filed on the same day by the "defendants, the
Walkers, Chetlamn, and Fargo. On the 5th of December,
1881, the demurrer of Rand and Doane was withdrawn, those
of the Walkers overruled, and that of Fargo sustained, with
leave to Mrs. Walker to amend her bill in ten days, which she
did. Demurrers to the amended bill were filed by Chetlamn
and the defendants Walker, December 21, 1881. These de-

RAND v. WAIKER.
Opunon of the Court.

murrers were overruled February 1, 1882, and on the 10th of
the same month answers were filed by the Browns and Tucker,
by Fargo, by Edward Stone Walker, by Samuel Otis Walker,
by Chetlain, and by Rand and Doane. In the answer of
Rand and Doane, which was joint, reasons were given why
dower had not been assigned, but the conveyances to Rand as
charged in the bill were admitted. While in the answer it is
stated that Rand alone holds the legal title under that conveyance, no reference whatever is made to the allegation in
the bill that this title is held for the joint account of Rand and
Doane, and that the premises had been since the conveyances
m their joint possession.
On the same day that this answer was filed Rand presented
his petition to the court for a removal of the suit to the Circuit
Court of the United States. This petition set forth the citizenship of Mrs. Walker, Rand, the Browns, and Tucker, at the
time of the commencement of the suit, and at the time of the
presentation of the petition, the same as is above stated, that
the petitioner alone held the legal title to the property, and
that "in said suit there is a controversy which is wholly
between citizens of different States, and which can be fully
determined as between them, to wit, a controversy between
said Martha A. Walker, and your petitioner and the said
Thomas Brown, Charles E. Brown, and Henry G. Tucker."
The State court thereupon made an order transferring the
cause to the Circuit Court of the United States. A copy of
the record was entered in due time in the Circuit Court,
whereupon a motion to remand was made by Mrs. Walker
and denied by the court, but afterwards, on the 8th of June,
1885, after the cause had been argued at the final hearing, it
was remanded. The evidence showed clearly that Doane had
a substantial interest in the property under the title held by
Rand. From the order to remand this appeal was taken.
Upon the argument here two positions were taken in support of the order appealed from, to wit.
1. That the petition for removal was not presented in time, and
2. That Rand had no controversy in the case to which
Doane was not a necessary party

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opnon of the Cour.

Without considering whether, under the circumstances of
this case, the order to remand could be sustained at the time it
was made on the first of these grounds, we are entirely satisfied
it was properly granted under the second. The suit is for an
assignment of dower in lots the legal title to which is, according to the pleadings and the evidence, in Rand for the joint use
and benefit of himself and Doane. Rand and Doane are also,
as is alleged on the one side and not denied on the other, in
joint possession, and the prayer of the bill is for a decree
against them jointly for damages on this account as well as for
the assignment of dower.
It is claimed, however, that, as Rand holds the legal title,
Doane is an unnecessary and merely nominal party, because
his interests are represented for all the purposes of the suit by
Rand as his trustee. It is certainly true, as was said in
Ye~rrson v Stewart, 93 II S. 155, 160, that "under some cir
cumstances a trustee may represent his beneficiaries in all
things relating to their common interest in the trust property
He may be invested with such powers and subjected to such obligations that those for whom he holds will be bound by what
is done against him, as well as by what is done by him. The
difficulty lies in ascertaining whether he occupies such a position, not in determining its effect if he does. If he has been
made such a representative, it is well settled that his beneficiaries are not necessary parties to a suit by him against a stranger to enforce the trust,
or to one by a stranger
against him to defeat it in whole or in part." But this case
has nothing in the pleadings, or elsewhere, to show that Rand
was authorized to represent Doane in respect to the property
any more than one tenant in common represents another. Having the legal title, a judgment against him in favor of one not
chargeable with notice of Doane's equity might bind Doane as
well as Rand, but here there is the notice, and the bill has been
brought against both Rand and Doane on that account. So
far as this suit is concerned, Doane is just as much a necessary
party as he would be if the deeds under which Rand holds bad
in express terms provided that the conveyances were made for
the joint use and benefit of the two, and certainly under those

RAND v. WALKER.
Opinion of the Court.

circumstances, especially if the two were in actual possession,
Doane would be. as necessary a party as he would be if both
the legal and the equitable title were in him. As the suit now
stands, it is, so far as IRand and Doane alone are concerned, by
a citizen of Illinois against one defendant a citizen of Illinois
and another defendant a citizen of New York, to obtain an assignment of dower in property owned by the two defendants
jointly, and in which they have a common interest. Both defendants are necessary parties, and consequently there cannot
be a removal by one alone, because the controversy is not
separable, nor by the two together, because as to them there is
not the necessary citizenship.
It is argued, however, that the order to remand ought not to
have been granted, because the bill shows there is in the suit a
separable controversy between Mrs. Walker and the parties
interested in the deed of trust to Charles E. Brown, trustee, in
which the citizenship necessary for a removal exists. As to this,
it is sufficient to say that neither of the parties to this controversy, if it be separable, a question which we do not decide,
have petitioned for removal, and the right to remove a suit on
the ground of a separable controversy is, by the statute, confined to the parties "actually interested in such controversy"
After the suit got into the Circuit Court a supplemental bill
was filed by Mrs. Walker, in which she alleged that a certain
judgment, which had been obtained in the Circuit Court of the
United States after the removal, in a suit to which she was not
a party, had been obtained by collusion between the parties
thereto, and did not conclude her upon certain questions
arising under the deed of trust to Brown. This, it is claimed,
gave the Circuit Court jurisdiction independent of any question
of removal, on the ground that thereafter the suit was one
arising under the Constitution and laws of the United States
within the meaning of the act of 1875. To this we cannot
agree. The effort of Mrs. Walker is not to avoid the judgment
as between the parties, but to show that as to her, she not
being a party, it has no effect. This raises no question under
the authority of the United States.
-Affi med.
The order remanding the case is

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

DUNPHY v. SULLIVA_.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF MONTANA.
Argued March 16, 18S.-Decided March 22, 1886.

Possession of land in Montana under claim of title for more than three years
prior to August 1, 1877, perfected title as against adverse claimants.

Ejectment for a town lot in Montana. Defendant in error
as plaintiff below claimed under a deed from the Probate Judge
as trustee and mesne conveyances, and relied on a continued
possession under claim of title from August, 1870, to October,
1877. The defendant below also claimed title from the Probate Judge as trustee through mesne conveyances. Judgment
for plaintiff, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory The defendant brought this writ of error.
.Ab' ff F 3forris for plaintiff in error.
.Mr Joseph . Toole for defendant in error.
TV Toole was with him on the brief.

Xi'

dwtn

MIR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This judgment is affirmed. The jury has found as a fact
that Mrs. Sullivan, the defendant in error, was in the actual
possession of the property, under a claim of title, from August
2, 1870, until October 4, 1877. This, of course, includes the
time from the 22d of February, 1873, when it is claimed
the adverse title of Dunphy began, to October 4, 1877. It
sufficiently appears that the court directed the jury to find
upon the special issues submitted, and no complaint is made of
the charge as to what was necessary to create a title by adverse
possession. We are not permitted to inquire whether the ewdcnce was sufficient to support the verdict. From a time prior
to February 22, 1873, until August 1, 1877, a title could be acquired, under the statutes of Montana, by three years' adverse
possession. After that it required five years. It follows that

