OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Syllabus.

particular standard of compensation in respect of the transactions in question, and proceed with the adjusting of such accounts and to make proper orders for the speedy adjusting of
the same, to the end that just compensation may be made to
the defendant below on dismissing said bill for services performed pending the suit, and to that end the master heretofore
appointed therein, or such other master as the court may appoint in his place, may consider all the proofs relevant thereto
heretofore taken in the cause, whether before or since a final
hearing, and such other proofs as may be adduced relating to
the extent and value of the service rendered by the defendant
below for the complainant, and the payments made on account
thereof, and relating to such other matters, necessary to be inquired into, in order to adjust said accounts between the various
parties, to the end that a proper final decree may be entered
m accordance with the opinion of this court.

ALABAMA & Others v. M ONTAGUE & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOP.
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted March 81, 1886.-Decided April 12,1886.
By an act of the Legislature of Alabama the State loaned its credit to the Alabama & Chattanooga Raih'oad Company, upon condition that the company
should first give to the State "a first mortgage upon the lands granted by
the United States to said Railroad Company" and a first mortgage " on
the telegraph line and telegraph offices along the line of said road belonging
to said company also on the machine shops and all other property in the
State and in Georgia, Tennessee and Mississippi belonging to said company;
also on all coal mines now opened or hereafter to be opened and worked,
belonging to said company , also upon all iron or other mineral lands, and
all iron-manufacturing establishments now in operation and hereafter to be
constructed." The company made a mortgage to the State in which the
words of description were identical with the language of the statute. In a
suit in equity brought to foreclose the mortgage, as covering some town
lots in Tennessee not granted by the United States to the company, and not
coming within either of the specified classes, Held

ALABAMA v. MONTAGUE.
Statement of Facts.
(1.) That the words of description in the mortgage did not cover the lots.
(2.) That the words "all other property" were intended to cover property of
-the company in and about the telegraph offices, machine shops, coal mines,
iron mines and manufacturing establishments, about which a doubt might
otherwise arise whether it was part of those classes of property.
T57son v. Boyce, 92 U. S. 820, distinguished.

This was a bill in equity to foreclose a mortgage alleged to
have been made by the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad
Company to the State of Alabama on certain town lots in
Chattanooga. The case is stated in the opinion of the court.
For the purpose of understanding the points made in argument,
it is sufficient to say that the act of the Legislature of Alabama,
authorizing the loan of the credit of the State to the company
contained the following provision "That the Governor of
the said State shall only issue said bonds upon receiving in exchange therefor an equal amount of first mortgage bonds of
said railroad company, bearing the same rate of interest as the
above-mentioned State bonds, and secured by first mortgage
upon the lands granted by the United States to said railroad
company, and upon any interest which said company now has
or may hereafter lawfully acquire in or to said lands, with this
reservation," "Provided further, That the Governor shall require said railroad company, before issuing to said company
said bonds, to give the State of Alabama a first mortgage on
the telegraph line and telegraph offices along the line of said
road belonging to said company, also on the machine shops
and all other property in the State and in Georgia, Tennessee,
and Mississippi belonging to said company, also on all coal
mines now opened, or hereafter to be opened and worked, belonging to said company, also upon all iron or other mineral
lands and all iron-manufacturing establishments now in operation and hereafter to be constructed."
The company executed the required mortgage with words of
description identical with those in the mortgage. It was not
claimed in the bill that the premises in controversy were embraced in either class of property specially named but they
were shown to have been acquired by deed subsequent to the
mortgage, in execution of a contract for sale made prior to it.

OCTOBER TERMI, 1885.
Argument for Appellants.

Decree below for respondent on the ground that the statute of limitations was a bar, from which complainants appealed.

.Ar Samuel F 1?we for appellants argued upon the question
decided here
The statutory provisions of Tennessee (the lex re? site), in
relation to conveyances of every kind, were intended "to reduce the forms of conveyance to their simplest elements, and
to give tke largest meanzny to granfing o'rds, unless limited
by the instrument itself." Daly v TFillis, 5 Lea, 100, 104.
Hence, the largest meaning must be given to "the granting
words" contained in the mortgage of March 2, 1870. Pennock v. Coe, 23 low 117.
Upon the admitted or established facts, that on March 25,
1869, the Alabama & Chattanooga Railroad Company purchased the lands here in controversy from J P McMillin, the
then undisputed owner, and paid him one third of the purchasemoney and acquired control thereof, and that afterwards, on
March 2, 1870, the company executed to the State of Alabama
the mortgage of that date, embracing amongst other specified
lands "all other property in said States of Alabama, Georgia,
Tennessee and Mississippi, belonging to said company," and
that said mortgage was duly registered on March 24, 1870, in
Hamilton County, Tennessee, in which county the lands in
controversy are situated, and that afterwards and on March
31, 1870, said McMillin received from said company the other
two-thirds of the purchase-money and executed a deed of conveyance of the lands here in controversy to said company,the said conveyance of McMillin to said company, as against
all persons who, like the defendants, acquired or derived their
only claim to said last-mentioned lands from or under the
mortgagor, by transactions entirely subsequent to the registration of the mortgage, converted the equitable title of the company "into a legal title, which, at once, by operation of law,
inured to the benefit" of the mortgagee. Skzdm ore v Pittsburg, Cincinnati& St. Iouts Railway Co., 112 U. S. 33, Bush
v 3farshall,6 How 284, 291, Thredgill v Ptntard,12 How
24, Hens aw v Wells, 9 Humphreys, 568, Crook v Lunsford,

ALABAMA v. MONTAGUE.
Opinon of the Court.

2 Lea, 237, Bank of Greensboro v. Clapp, 76 N. C. 482, Crane
v Turner, 7 Hun, 357, Tan Rensselear v. Kearney, 11 How
297, 323, Doe v Larmore, 116 U. S. 198.
The recital of the execution of the bond for title in the deed
of McMillin to the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company, is sufficient evidence of the execution of that bond, as
against the defendants in this cause. Carver v. Astor, 4 Pet.
1, Crane v. .orrzs, 6 Pet. 598.
The parting with, or loan of money, or its equivalent, upon
the faith of the mortgage, is, pro tanto, a sale, and gives such
a mortgagee, to the extent of the loan, all the rights of a bona
fide purchaser for value without notice. Chadwell v. Fheless,
6 Lea, 312, Carpenter v longan, 16 Wall. 271.
The objection, that the mortgage does not convey the lands
here in controversy, by specific designation and description, is
clearly insufficient, both upon reason and authority .2lfGavock
v. Deery, 1 Coldwell, 265, Sezfrezd v Peopes Bank; 2 Tenn.
Ch.17, Skeets v Selden's lessee, 2 Wall. 177, Wilson v. Boyce,
92 U. S. 320, Spndle v Shreve, 111 U. S. 542, Frey v Clifford, 44 Cal. 343, Barton's lessee v .3forms,15 Ohio, 408,
H7oxze v Lawrence, 117 Mass. 111, St. loins,etc., Railway Co.
v X[cGee, 115 U. S. 469, 476, citing approvingly, Wilson v.
Boyce.
.rXenophon Fheeler for appellees.
court.
This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Eastern District of Tennessee. The suit was originally
brought in the Chancery Court of Hamilton County, from
which it was removed into the court first mentioned. It was
a bill to foreclose a mortgage on twenty-two acres of land in
that county, which is described with particularity by metes
and bounds in the bill, and is there alleged to have been
purchased of J. P McMillin by the Alabama and Chattanooga
Railroad Company, the mortgagor, on the 25th day of Mlarch,
1869. No such description of the land is found in the mortMR. JUSTICE M rLLER delivered the opinion of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

gage which is the-foundation of this suit, and if it is covered
by that mortgage, it is by a phrase which, it must be supposed,
was intended to cover it by a general reference to all other
property of the mortgagor in the State of Tennessee, rather
than by any specification of this property
The defendants deny that, by any fair or just construction
of the mortgage, it can be held to include the twenty-two
acres in question.
There are other grounds of defence set up, on one of which
the decree against plaintiffs was rendered, namely, that the
suit was barred by the statute of limitation. But if the defendants are right m the assertion that the. land was not conveyed
by the mortgage deed, all other questions are immaterial.
It appears that the Legislature of the State of Alabama
authorized the governor of the State to issue to the Alabama
and Chattanooga Railroad Company its bonds to the amount
of $2,000,000. The statute, however, required the governor,
before he delivered these bonds, to demand of the company its
own bonds of an equal amount, secured by a mortgage on
certain property mentioned in the statute. The mortgage was
made and the bonds issued to the State in exchange for bonds
of the State delivered to the company
As the language descriptive of the property to be mortgaged,
as found in the statute, is found identically in the reciting part
of the mortgage and in its granting clause, and as this question
is to be -decided by a construction of that language, it will be
given here verbatin from the mortgage deed
"ExHIBIT

'C' to original bill."

"This instrument of mortgage, made this second day of
M arch, in the year eighteen hundred and seventy, by and
between the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company, a
corporation of the States of Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, and
Tennessee, the party of the first part, and the State of Alabama.
the party of the second part, witnesseth That whereas said
State of Alabama, by an act entitled 'An Act to loan the
credit of the State of Alabama to the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company, for the purpose of expediting the

ALABXMA v. MONTAGUE.
Opinion of the Court.

construction of the railroad of said company within the State
of Alabama,' and approved February 11th, 1870, has granted
certain aid to said corporation, and has in and by said act required the governor of said State to issue bonds of said State
to an amount not exceeding two millions of dollars in favor of
said company, bearing interest at a rate not - eight per cent.
per annum, which said interest shall be payable semi-annually
in currency or coin, and the bonds shall be payable at the expiration of not less than fifteen nor more than thirty years
upon the terms and conditions in said act set forth, and
whereas said act further provides that the governor of the
State shall only issue said bonds upon receiving in exchange
therefor an equal amount of first-mortgage bonds of said railroad company, bearing the same rate of interest as the aboveL
mentioned State bonds, and secured by a first mortgage upon
the lands granted by the United States to said railroad company and upon any interest which said company now has or
may hereafter lawfully acquire in or to said lands, with this
reservation That the said Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad
Company shall have the privilege and right of selling said
lands, or any part thereof, in accordance with the act of Congress granting the same Provided, however, that the proceeds of said sale shall be appropriated to the payment of the
aforesaid first-mortgage bonds of the said railroad company
issued to the State Provided, further, That the governor
shall require said railroad company, before issuing to said company said bonds, to give the State of Alabama a first mortgage on the telegraph line and telegraph offices along the line
of said road belonging to said company; also on the machineshops and all other property m the State and in Georgia, Tennessee, and Mississippi belonging to said company, also on all
coal mines now open or hereafter to be opened and worked
belonging to said company, also upon all iron or other
mineral lands and all iron manufacturing establishments now
in operation or hereafter to be constructed, and whereas said
Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company, in order to.obtain said State aid, proposes to issue to said State bonds of said
corporation, secured as is by said act required, and entitled

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opinion of the Court.

first-mortgage land bonds of the Alabama and Chattanooga
Railroad Company
"Now, therefore, the said Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company, in compliance with the terms and conditions
of said act, and for the purpose of obtaining the aid thereby
granted to this corporation, and in order to secure the punctual
payment of all said first-mortgage land bonds of this corporation, does hereby grant, bargain, sell, enfeoff, release, assign,
and convey unto the State of Alabama, and its successors and
assigns, forever, all lands granted by the United States to and
for the benefit of this company, and all the right, title, interest,
and estate which said company now has, or may hereafter lawfully acquire, in or to said lands, subject to this reservation to
said company, as by said act provided, that said company shall
have the privilege and right of selling said lands, or any part
thereof, in accordance with the act of Congress granting the
same, and entitled 'An Act to renew certain grants of land to the
State of Alabama,' and approved April 10th, 1869, Provided,
however, That the proceeds of said sales shall be appropriated
to the payment of the first-mortgage land bonds of said company to be issued to the State of Alabama, as aforesaid, also
the telegraph line and telegraph offices along the line of said
road, and belonging to said company, also the machine-shops
and all other property in said States of Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, and Mississippi belonging to said company, also all
coal mines now open or hereafter to be opened and worked belonging to said company, and all iron or other imneral lands,
and all iron-manufacturing establishments now in operation and
hereafter to be constructed, saving and excepting only from
said granted premises such and so much of the same as said
company may have heretofore conveyed in mortgage in or by
either or both of two indentures of mortgage, both made on
December 19th, 1868, and covering the railroad and certain
other property of said company, for a more specific description
whereof reference is hereby made to said two indentures, the
same having been recorded in the counties where said road is
located."
It is to be observed that the land sued for is nowhere spoken

ALABAMA v. MONTAGUE.
Opinion of the Court.

of in this record otherwise than as land pure and simple, nor
isthere any claim that it was land granted by Congress.
Now, the mortgage deed describes ex industrm the several
species of lands which it conveys. The first of them, by far
the most important, is ' all lands granted by the United States
to and for the benefit of this company, and all right, title, interest or estate which said company now has or may hereafter
lawfully acquire in or to said lands." If the company had intended to grant all its lands within the States of Alabama,
Georgia, Tennessee and Mississippi, and it must have had other
lands in these States, why not have said so, instead of saying
all the lands granted by the United States 2 It was, therefore,
only this class of lands which was conveyed by this first clause
of the deed. After some reservation of the right of the mortgaging company to sell these lands and appropriate the proceeds
to payment of the bonds secured by the deed, the granting language proceeds, "also the telegraph line and telegraph offices
along the line of said road and belonging to said company,
also the machine-shops and all other property in said States of
Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, and Mississippi belonging to said
company, also all coal mines now open or hereafter to be
opened and worked belonging to said company, and all iron or
other mineral lands, and all iron-manufacturing establishments
'now in operation and hereafter.to be constructed."
While the company is thus specific in its description of the
subjects of the mortgage, enumerating with great particularity
its land grant from Congress, its telegraph lines and offices, its
machine-shops, and its coal mines, it is quite unreasonable to
suppose that the company would have been thus needlessly
minute in its description of the property conveyed, enumerating
with great particularity the four or five classes of property,
mostly real estate, which were intended to pass, if it had also
intended that the three words, "all other property," should,
stand for everything in the four States which the company
owned, and especially all its lands.
These words, which are found neither in the beginning
of the granting clause as a general phrase to be afterwards
emphasized by a more minute description, nor at the end, as a
VOL. cxvnI-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1885.
Opimon of the Court.

summary of what had preceded them, have their appropriate
use in the precise place where they are found. We say they
are there appropriate, because in conveying the telegraph
offices, the machine-shops, the coal mines, the iron Mines, and
the manufacturing establishments, there might in them be
found much property belonging to the company about which
a doubt would arise whether it was a part of these offices,
mines, machine-shops, and manufacturing establishments. All
such doubt or ambiguity is removed by declaring that all the
property of the grantors in these places, or used in any of these
pursuits, is conveyed. For this purpose the phrase "all other
property" is apt, and is used in the right place in a description
designedly minute and elaborate. It is among its kind, ed usdern
gen-er, and its purpose is answered when its use is limited to
explain the other words in this immediate connection.
It is not to be denied that in a writing descriptive of property to be transferred or assigned, the more general words
which include all that is intended to be conveyed are not to
be frittered away by an attempt at a description of each particular thing, fairly included in the more general language.
But in such case it must be apparent that the intent was to inelude all that could be embraced within the more general terms.
If, for instance, the description of the property mortgaged had
commenced 'by saying "all the property of the grantor, real,
personal, and mixed, in the States of Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, and Tennessee," and had then attempted to enumerate
this property, but had omitted some of it, this omitted part
would have passed as in S ndlr v. Shireve, 111 U. S. 542, 544.
So where the instrument professes "to convey all my property,"
or "all my estate," or "all my lands wherever situated." In all
these cases referred to in Wilson v Boyce, 92 U. S. 320, 325,
there were no words to qualify the generality of this description.
In fact there were no other words of description, and
their full effect must be given to them. This latter case is
relied on by appellant's counsel as conclusive in the one now
under consideration. In that case the bonds issued to certain
railroad companies were declared to be a "first lien upon the

ALABAMA v. MONTAGUE.
Syllabus.

road and property of the several companies so receiving them,"
and this was held to cover the lands owned by said companies.
It is obvious here the two words "i'oad andproperty" of those
companies were used as representing all the property they
owned. Nothing further in the way of description was needed
or was desirable. But this form of words differs widely from
the elaborate description of what is conveyed m the deed of the
mortgaging company here, and the meaning also is as different.
In the latter case the road, its bed, its rolling-stock, and much
other property probably was not conveyed, and no expression is
found implying that all its lands were conveyed. And if we
limit the words "all other roperty " to what we have supposed
to be their meaning, there is nothing else to imply that the company intended to mortgage all its property, of every kind and
description, whether real or personal.
We do not believe this was intended or can be fairly implied
from the language used, the minute descriptive character
of which is found three times in this contract, namely, in the
statute authorizing the transaction, in the preliminary recital of
the mortgage deed, and in its granting clause, all of which is
useless if the phrase " all other property," as there used, was
intended to include all lands and all interest in lands in the
four States through which the road passed.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflrmed.

ALABAMA & Others v. MONTAGUE & Another.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
Submitted 'March 31, 18S6 -Decided

April 12, 188.

This case involves the same questions as the case just decided, Alabama v.
.Montague,ante 602, and on the authority of that case the judgment below
is affirmed.

