OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Syllabus.

338 U. S.

CHRISTOFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT.

No. 528.

Argued April 20, 1949.-Decided June 27, 1949.

For alleged perjurious testimony before a Committee of the House
of Representatives, petitioner was convicted under the perjury
statute of the District of Columbia (§ 22-2501 of the D. C. Code),
which makes it an essential element of the offense that it shall have
been committed before "a competent tribunal." The Committee
in question had a membership of twenty-five. Although evidence
was adduced at the trial from which a jury n;ight have concluded
that, at the time of the alleged perjurious testimony, less than a
quorum of the Committee were in attendance, the trial court
in its charge allowed the jury to find a quorum present simply
by finding that thirteen or more members were in attendance
when the Committee was convened. Held: So much of the instructions to the jury as allowed them to find a quorum present
without reference to the facts at the time of the alleged perjurious
testimony was erroneous, and the judgment of conviction must
be reversed. Pp. 85-90.
84 U. S. App. D. C. 132, 171 F. 2d 1004, reversed.

Petitioner was convicted of perjury under the perjury
statute of the District of Columbia (§ 22-2501 of the
D. C. Code), for alleged perjurious testimony before a
Committee of the House of Representatives. The Court
of Appeals affirmed the conviction. 84 U..S. App. D. C.
132, 171 F. 2d 1004. This Court granted certiorari. 336
U. S. 934. Reversed, p. 90.
0. John Rogge argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Campbell argued the cause
for the United States. With him on the brief were
Solicitor General Perlman, Robert S. Erdahl, Harold D.
Cohen and Philip R. Monahan.

CHRISTOFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

84

MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
In March of 1947, the Committee on Education and
Labor was, as it is now, a standing committee of the
House of Representatives.! During the first session of
the 80th Congress it held frequent hearings on proposed
amendments to the National Labor Relations Act. On
March 1, 1947, petitioner appeared as a witness before
the committee, under oath, and in the course of the
proceedings was asked a series of questions directed to
his political affiliations and associations. In his answers
he unequivocally denied that he was a Communist or
that he endorsed, supported or participated in Communist programs. As a result of these answers he was
indicted for perjury under § 22-2501 of the District of
Columbia Code,2 and after a trial by jury was convicted.
The Court of Appeals affirmed the conviction, 84 U. S.
App. D. C. 132, 171 F. 2d 1004, and we granted certiorari
to review its validity. 336 U. S. 934.
No question is raised as to the relevancy or propriety
of the questions asked. Petitioner's main contention is
that the committee was not a "competent tribunal"
within the meaning of the statute, in that a quorum of
'Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, 60 Stat. 812, § 121; Rule
X, House of Representatives; H. R. Res. No. 111, 80th Cong., 1st
Sess., adopted Feb. 26, 1947 (93 Cong. Rec. 1457).
2 "§ 22-2501 . . . . Perjury-Subornation of perjury. Every person who, having taken an oath or affirmation before a competent
tribunal, officer, or person, in any case in which the law authorized
such oath or affirmation to be administered, that he will testify,
declare, depose, or certify truly, or that any written testimony, declaration, deposition, or certificate by him subscribed is true, wilfully
and contrary to such oath or affirmation states or subscribes any
material matter which he does not believe to be true, shall be guilty
of perjury; and any person convicted of perjury or subornation of
perjury shall be punished by imprisonment in the penitentiary for
not less than two nor more than ten years ... ." 31 Stat. 1329.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

the committee was not present at the time of the incident
on which the indictment was based. As to this, the
record reveals the following: the Committee on Education and Labor consists of twenty-five members, of
whom thirteen constitute a quorum. At the commencement of the afternoon session on Saturday, March 1,
1947, shortly after two o'clock, a roll call showed that
fourteen members were present. Petitioner's testimony
started some time after four o'clock. The responses said
to constitute offenses were given just prior to five p. m.
Evidence was adduced at the trial from which a jury
might have concluded that at the time of the allegedly
perjurious answers less than a quorum--as few as sixof the committee were in attendance. Counsel for the
petitioner contended vigorously at the trial, on appeal and
in this Court that unless a quorum were found to be
actually present when the crucial questions were asked,
the statutory requirement of a competent tribunal was
not met and that absent such a finding a verdict of
acquittal should follow.
The trial court agreed that the presence of a quorum
was an indispensable part of the offense charged, and
instructed the jury that to find the defendant guilty
they had to find beyond a reasonable doubt "That the
defendant Christoffel appeared before a quorum of at
least thirteen members of the said Committee," and that
"at least that number must have been actually and physically present . . . . If such a Committee so met, that
is, if 13 members did meet at the beginning of the afternoon session of March 1, 1947, and thereafter during
the progress of the hearing some of them left temporarily
or otherwise and no question was raised as to the lack
of a quorum, then the fact that the majority did not
remain there would not affect, for the purposes of this
case, the existence of that Committee as a competent
tribunal provided that before the oath was administered

CHRISTOFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
84

Opinion of the Court.

and before the testimony of the defendant was given
there were present as many as 13 members of that Committee at the beginning of the afternoon session ...
"
This charge is objected to insofar as it allows the jury
to find a quorum present simply by finding that thirteen
or more members were in attendance when the committee
was convened, without reference to subsequent facts.
The Constitution of the United States provides that
"Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings," Art. I, § 5, Cl. 2, and we find that the subject of
competency, both of the House as a whole and of its
committees, has been a matter of careful consideration. Rule XI (2) (f) of the House of Representatives
reads in part, "The rules of the House are hereby made
the rules of its standing committees so far as applicable . . . ." Rule XV of the House provides for a call
of the House if a quorum is not present, and it has been
held under this rule that such a call, or a motion to adjourn, is the only business that may be transacted in
the absence of a quorum. IV Hind's Precedents § 2950;
id. § 2988. See id. §§ 2934, 2939; VI Cannon's Precedents
§ 653; id. § 680. It appears to us plain that even the
most highly privileged business must be suspended in
the absence of a quorum in the House itself.
A similar situation obtains in the committees.' The
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, 60 Stat. 812, 831,
provides, referring to the standing committees, in § 133
(d), "No measure or recommendation shall be reported
from any such committee unless a majority of the commita There is some difference between procedure in the full House

and in its committees. In the former, business is transacted on
the assumption that a quorum is present at all times, unless a roll
call or a division indicate the contrary. In committee meetings,
however, the presence of a quorum must be affirmatively shown
before the committee is deemed to be legally met. VIII Cannon's
Precedents § 2222.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

tee were actually present." The rule embodied in this
subsection was effective as long ago as 1918 to keep off the
floor of the House a bill from a committee attended by
less than a quorum, even though no objection was raised
in the committee meeting itself. It appeared that the
situation in the committee was much like the one with
which we a-e concerned, with members coming and going
during the meeting. No point of no quorum was raised
at the committee meeting. When the Chairman proposed in the House to bring up the bill considered in
the meeting, the Speaker ruled, on objection being made
from the floor, that in spite of the point's not having
been raised in committee, the bill could not be reported.
The absence of a quorum of the committee, though at
the time unobjected to, had made effective action impossible. VIII Cannon's Precedents § 2212. Witnesses in
committee hearings cannot be required to be familiar
with the complications of parliamentary practice. Even
if they are, the power to raise a point of no quorum
appears to be limited to members of the committee.
We have no doubt that if a member of the committee
had raised a point of no quorum and a count had revealed the presence of less than a majority, proceedings would have been suspended until the deficiency
should be supplied. In a criminal case affecting the
rights of one not a member, the occasion of trial is an
appropriate one for petitioner to raise the question.
Congressional practice in the transaction of ordinary
legislative business is of course none of our concern, and
by the same token the considerations which may lead
Congress as a matter of legislative practice to treat as
valid the conduct of its committees do not control the
issue before us. The question is neither what rules Congress may establish for its own governance, nor whether
presumptions of continuity may protect the validity of
its legislative conduct. The question is rather what rules

CHRISTOFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
84

Opinion of the Court.

the House has established and whether they have been
followed. It of course has the power to define what
tribunal is competent to exact testimony and the conditions that establish its competency to do so. The
heart of this case is that by the charge that was given
it the jury was allowed to assume that the conditio-ns
of competency were satisfied even though the basis in
fact was not established and in face of a possible finding
that the facts contradicted the assumption.
We are measuring a conviction of crime by the statute
which defined it. As a consequence of this conviction,
petitioner was sentenced to imprisonment for a term of
from two to six years. An essential part of a procedure
which can be said fairly to inflict such a punishment is
that all the elements of the crime charged shall be proved
beyond a reasonable doubt. An element of the crime
charged in the instant indictment is the presence of a
competent tribunal, and the trial court properly so
instructed the jury. The House insists that to be such
a tribunal a committee must consist of a quorum, and
we agree with the trial court's charge that, to convict,
the jury had to be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt
that there were "actually and physically present" a majority of the committee.'
4 In Meyers v. United States, 84 U. S. App. D. C. 101, 171 F. 2d
800, the appellant made contentions similar to those of petitioner.
The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held the
same view expressed here. "On October 6, 1947, however, only two
senators were present at the hearing. Since they were a minority of
the subcommittee, they could not legally function except to adjourn.
For that reason, the testimony of Lamarre given on that day cannot
be considered as perjury nor can appellant be convicted of suborning
it." 84 U. S. App. D. C. at 112, 171 F. 2d at 811. The conviction
was affirmed on the ground that all the perjurious statements alleged
in the indictment were made on October 4, when a quorum was
present. 84 U. S. App. D. C. at 113, 171 F. 2d at 812.

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

338 U. S.

J., dissenting.

Then to charge, however, that such requirement is
satisfied by a finding that there was a majority present
two or three hours before the defendant offered his
testimony, in the face of evidence indicating the contrary,
is to rule as a matter of law that a quorum need not be
present when the offense is committed. This not only
seems to us contrary to the rules and practice of the Congress but denies petitioner a fundamental right. That
right is that he be convicted of crime only on proof of all
the elements of the crime charged against him. A tribunal
that is not competent is no tribunal, and it is unthinkable
that such a body can be the instrument of criminal conviction. The Court of Appeals erred in affirming so much of
the instructions to the jury as allowed them to find a
quorum present without reference to the facts at the time
of the alleged perjurious testimony, and its judgment is
reversed.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE REED,

MR.

JUSTICE

and I think the Court is denying to the records
of the Congress and its Committees the credit and effect
to which they are entitled, quite contrary to all recognized
parliamentary rules, our previous decisions, and the Constitution itself.
No one questions that the competency of a Committee
of either House of Congress depends upon the action of the
House in constituting the Committee, and in determining
the rules governing its procedure. Nor does any one deny
that each House has the power to provide expressly that a
majority of the entire membership of any of its Committees shall constitute a quorum for certain purposes, and
that for other purposes a different number shall be sufficient. For example, either House may provide expressly
that, for the purpose of convening a session of a ComBURTON

CHRISTOFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
84

JACKSON, J., dissenting.

mittee or of approving a report, a majority of the Committee's entire membership shall be necessary; and that, for
the purpose of taking sworn testimony, one or more Committee members shall be sufficient to constitute a quorum.
Similarly, each House may spell out a formal rule that
a Committee shall constitute a competent tribunal to
take sworn testimony if a majority of its members shall
be present at the beginning of the session at which the
testimony is taken, and that such competency shall continue although the attendance of Committee members
may drop, during the Committee's session, to some
smaller number. The reasonableness of such a rule is
apparent because the value of the testimony taken by
such a Committee is measured not so much by the number
of people who hear it spoken at the session as it is by
the number and identity of those who read it later.
But what Congress may do by express rule it may do
also by its custom and practice. There is no requirement,
constitutional or otherwise, that its body of parliamentary
law must be recorded in order to be authoritative. In the
absence of objection raised at the time, and in the absence
of any showing of a rule, practice or custom to the contrary, this Court has the duty to presume that the conduct
of a Congressional Committee, in its usual course of
business, conforms to both the written and unwritten
rules of the House which created it. "Each House may
determine the Rules of its Proceedings .....
"
Art. I,
§ 5, cl. 2. This Court accordingly can neither determine
the rules for either House of Congress nor require those
rules to be expressed with any degree of explicitness other
than that chosen by the respective Houses.
The record shows a quorum of this Committee present
when the session began, and neither Christoffel nor anyone
else had raised the point of no quorum up to the time
he gave false testimony. On trial for perjury he introduced oral testimony tending to show that, at the moment

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

338 U. S.

he so testified, less than a quorum were actually present.
The trial court charged that, in the absence of challenge
or proof to the contrary, the quorum established at the
beginning of the session is presumed to continue and
the jury could find Christoffel guilty of perjury if he
gave false testimony before such a body. He was found
guilty. The Court now holds the charge was erroneous
and that, if the Government cannot show positively that
there was a quorum present when he falsified, the Committee was not a "competent tribunal" within the Perjury Statute of the District and his conviction thereunder
is invalid.
Thus the issue is not whether a quorum is required in
order for the Committee to be a competent tribunal, but
whether committee rules, practices and records, and congressional rules, practices and records in analogous situations, are subject to attack by later oral testimony and
to invalidation by the courts.
All the parliamentary authorities, including those cited
by the Court, agree that a quorum is required for action,
other than adjournment, by any parliamentary body; and
they agree that the customary law of such bodies is that,
the presence of a quorum having been ascertained and
recorded at the beginning of a session, that record stands
unless and until the point of no quorum is raised. This
is the universal practice. If it were otherwise, repeated
useless roll calls would be necessary before every action.
In this case, therefore, the record on the subject of
quorum was entitled to full credit. Christoffel himself
did not, during his testimony, raise the question of no
quorum. Whether one not a member of the body would
have been permitted to do so and what effect it would
have, had he been refused, we need not decide. The
fact is, he made no effort to raise the point. To have
then even suggested the objection would have given opportunity to the Committee to correct it. And if there
were not enough committee members present to make a

CHRISTOFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
84

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

legal body, he would be at liberty, if his objection were
overruled, to walk out. Instead, he chose to falsify to
the Committee and now says that, despite the record,
he should be allowed to prove that not enough members
were present for his lie to be legal perjury. The Court
agrees and holds that the House Rules requiring a quorum
for action require this result. Since the constitutional
provision governing the House itself also requires a
quorum before that body can do business, this raises
the question whether the decision now announced will
also apply to the House itself. If it does, it could have
the effect of invalidating any action taken or legislation
passed without a record vote, which represents a large
proportion of the business done by both House and Senate. The effect is illustrated by noting that such a rule
would make possible the invalidation of not only this
conviction for perjury, but the Perjury Act1 itself, as
well as the Judicial Code,' which is now the source of
this Court's authority to review the conviction. Moreover, this rule is in direct contravention of the Constitution, which does not require either House or Senate, much
less a Committee, to take a record vote except' "at the
Desire of one fifth of those Present." Art. I, § 5, cl. 3.
The Court significantly omits citation of any prior
decision in support of its present conclusion.' The reason
'Passed without record vote by the Senate, 34 Cong. Rec., Pt. 4,
pp. 3496-97, and by the House without a record vote, 34 Cong. Rec.,
Pt. 4, p. 3586.
2 Passed by the Senate without a record vote, 94 Cong. Rec., Pt. 6,
p. 7930, and motion to reconsider withdrawn, 94 Cong. lec., Pt. 7,
p. 8297. Passed by the House without a record vote, 94 Cong. Rec.,
Pt. 7, p. 8501.
3 A separate provision requires a record vote on the question of
overriding a Presidential veto. Art. I, § 7, cl. 2.
4 This is not because others have not tried to raise the issue. In
Meyers v. United States, 84 U. S. App. D. C. 101, 171 F. 2d 800, certiorari denied 336 U. S. 912, the petitioner was convicted of subornation of perjury committed before a Committee of Congress on two
860926 0-50-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1948.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

338 U. S.

is fairly clear-the others are inconsistent with this one.
For example, in United States v. Ballin, 144 U. S. 1, we
held it to be within the competency of the House to prescribe any method reasonably certain to ascertain the
separate days-October 4 and October 6. The conviction was
allowed to stand despite a charge to the jury that the quorum on
October 4 was presumed to continue unless and until a committee
member raised the point of no quorum, and that false testimony
given before the point is raised is perjurious under this same statute.
That charge is practically identical with the charge given in this
case, of which this Court now says: "The heart of this case is that
by the charge that was given it the jury was allowed to assume that
the conditions of competency were satisfied even though the basis
in fact was not established and in face of a possible finding that
the facts contradicted the assumption." This perfectly describes the
Meyers case, considering only the October 4th testimony, on which
it is said the conviction rested. Considering only that part of each
count, Meyers was convicted and is now imprisoned for suborning
perjury given under identical conditions as did Christoffel; and
Meyers' guilt was determined by a jury which received the same
ruling the Court now holds to be error as applied to Christoffel.
Yet the Meyers conviction was affirmed and we denied his plea
for review. Such a denial here of course does not imply approval
of the law announced below but, on the iundisputed facts, Meyers'
conviction rests on a basis which this Court says is "unthinkable" as
to Christoffel, whose conviction is reversed.
Moreover, the Meyers jury was permitted to convict, partly at
least, on the basis of testimony given before a Committee on October 6
when the committee records showed, and the Government admits, that
no quorum was present at any time. Today's opinion is diametrically
opposed to the Meyers conviction based on the October 4th testimony
alone, but the Meyers conviction also rests in part on testimony before
a body which demonstrably and admittedly never amounted to a
quorum, while Christoffel's is reversed merely because the charge
permitted the jury to ignore oral testimony "indicating" that a
quorum once admittedly established may have evaporated. I do
not see how the Court can justify such discrimination. The court
below evidently could not, for it relied on the Meyers case as a precedent for affirming the conviction of Christoffel on this identical issue.
84 U. S. App. D. C. 132, 133, 171 F. 2d 1004, 1005, n. 1.

CHRISTOFFEL v. UNITED STATES.
84

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

fact of a quorum; that the courts are not concerned with
the wisdom or advantages of any such rule-"with the
courts the question is only one of power." The House
has adopted the rule and practice that a quorum once
established is presumed to continue unless and until a
point of no quorum is raised. By this decision, the Court,
in effect, invalidates that rule despite the limitations consistently imposed upon courts where such an issue is
tendered. See Field v. Clark, 143 U. S. 649, 669-673;
United States v. Ballin, 144 U. S. 1, 5; Flint v. Stone
Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107, 143; cf. Leser v. Garnett, 258
U. S. 130, 137. And see Coleman v. Miller, 307 U. S.
433, 453-456; and concurring opinions at 307 U. S. 456460, and 460-470.
We do not think we should devise a new rule for this
particular case to extend aid to one who did not raise his
objection when it could be met and who has been
prejudiced by absence of a quorum only if we assume
that, although he told a falsehood to eleven Congressmen,
he would have been honest if two more had been present.
But in no event should we put out a doctrine by which
every Congressional Act or Committee action, and perhaps every judgment here, can be overturned on oral
testimony of interested parties.
We should affirm the conviction.

