286

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Syllabus.

338 U. S.

UNITED STATES ET AL. v. CAPITAL TRANSIT
COMPANY ET AL.
NO. 40.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.*

Argued October 20-21, 1949.-Decided November 14, 1949.
1. Under this Court's decision in United States v. Capital Transit Co.,
325 U. S. 357, the Interstate Commerce Commission still has jurisdiction under the Motor Carrier Act to prescribe joint through
fares for the transportation of passengers by the Capital Transit
Co. and connecting Virginia lines between the District of Columbia
and certain nearby points in Virginia-even though, since that
decision, active warfare has ended, the number of such passengers
has been reduced, the Capital Transit Co. has discontinued running
any busses from the District of Columbia into Virginia, and its
share of such interstate traffic is now confined to carrying passengers between residential sections and the business section of the
District of Columbia, where they transfer to or from other lines
running between the District of Columbia and Virginia. Pp.
288-291.
2. This Court's decision in United States v. Yellow Cab Co., 332 U. S.
218, does not conflict with its prior holding that such transportation
was part of a continuous stream of interstate transportation. P.
290.
3. The Commission's finding, made in the prior proceedings, that
its exercise of jurisdiction was necessary to a national transportation system "adequate to meet the needs of . . . the national defense" is still supported by substantial evidence, notwithstanding
that the nation is no longer engaged in active warfare and there
are fewer Army and Navy employees at the Virginia installations.
Pp. 290-291.
4. Since the record in this case fails to show that there was properly
presented to the Commission for its determination any issue as
to whether the joint rates in question are confiscatory, that question
is not ripe for judicial review. P. 291.
Reversed.
*Together with No. 41, Washington, Virginia & Maryland Coach
Co. et al. v. Capital Transit Co. et al., also on appeal from the same
court.

UNITED STATES v. CAPITAL TRANSIT CO.
286

287

Counsel for Parties.

A three-judge District Court enjoined enforcement of
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission putting
into effect a rate order of the Interstate Commerce Commission sustained by this Court in United States v. Capital Transit Co., 325 U. S. 357. On appeal to this Court,
the judgment of the District Court is reversed, p. 291.
Philip Elman argued the cause for the United States
and the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellants in
No. 40. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Bergson, Joseph W.
Bishop, Jr., William J. Hickey, Richard E. Guggenheim,
Daniel W. Knowlton and Edward M. Reidy.
Manuel J. Davis argued the cause for the Washington,
Virginia & Maryland Coach Co., and S. Harrison Kahn
argued the cause for the Alexandria, Barcroft & Washington Transit Co., and filed a brief for those appellants
in No. 41.
Samuel 0. Clark, Jr. argued the cause and filed a brief
for the Capital Transit Co., appellee in Nos. 40 and 41.
With him on the brief were Edmund L. Jones, F. G. Awalt
and Daryal A. Myse.
Lloyd B. Harrison argued the cause for the Public
Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia, appellee
in Nos. 40 and 41. With him on the brief was Vernon E.
West.
By special leave of Court Henry E. Ketner argued the
cause and filed a brief for the State Corporation Commission of Virginia et al., as amici curiae, urging affirmance.
John O'Dea filed a brief as People's Counsel, Public
Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia, appellee
in No. 40.

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

PER CURIAM.

In United States v. Capital Transit Co., 325 U. S. 357,
we upheld the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission to regulate certain of Capital Transit's bus
and streetcar rates. The rates involved were in two different categories. Transit operated, as it still does, a bus
and streetcar system within the District connecting the
residential area with the central business area. It was
also one of four bus companies carrying passengers from
that central business area to the Pentagon Building and
other Defense establishments located just across the Potomac in Virginia. Each day thousands of Government
employees living in the District boarded Transit's streetcars near their residences, rode to the District's business
area, and there transferred to one of the Virginia busses
for carriage to the nearby Virginia establishments. In
the above case we sustained a Commission order fixing a
through fare for the entire trip between the District residential area and the Virginia governmental installations.
Transit had strongly urged that its bus and streetcar
transportation between residential and business areas,
being wholly within the District, could not be treated as
part of an interstate movement. For reasons stated in
our former opinion we rejected Transit's contention, holding that the daily stream of Government workers from
the District to Virginia and back again was an interstate
movement and therefore subject to regulation by the
Commission. This holding applied to Transit carriage
even where Transit passengers traveled between the District and Virginia on other bus lines. Transit also contended that jurisdiction of the Commission was precluded by a proviso in § 216 (e) of the Motor Carrier Act
exempting "intrastate transportation" of motor carriers
from regulation by the Commission. This contention
was repeated on motion for rehearing. We rejected it.

UNITED STATES v. CAPITAL TRANSIT CO.
286

289

Opinion of the Court.

Our holding that Transit's part of the District-Virginia
movements was "interstate transportation" necessarily
made the § 216 (e) exemption inapplicable.
After our holding the Commission entered a new order
putting into effect the rate order we had sustained. In
the present cases, here on appeal from a three-judge District Court under 28 U. S. C. §§ 1253 and 2101 (b), the
new order was enjoined1 on the ground that Transit's
transportation, which we had held to be interstate, had
now become "intrastate." On the same ground, that
court also held that Transit was exempt from Commission
jurisdiction under the proviso in § 216 (e). The District
Court also cited to support its ruling our recent decision
in United States v. Yellow Cab Co., 332 U. S. 218.
The District Court apparently took the position that
changed conditions since our decision in the prior Transit
case had deprived the Commission of its jurisdiction.
When we sustained the Commission's order in that case,
Transit was itself operating one of the four bus lines carrying Government workers from the District central business area to Virginia. It issued transfers to passengers on
its busses and streetcars between the District business and
residential areas. These transfers were good for rides on
Transit's own District-Virginia busses, but Transit would
not give transfers good on the three competitive lines.
We adverted to and relied on this situation as one of the
reasons supporting the Commission's requirement that
Transit make similar arrangements for through fares
with the other lines. April 1, 1947, Transit abandoned
1The District Court simultaneously enjoined enforcement of two
subsequent related Commission orders. One order declined to permit cancellation of the prescribed through rates and schedules. 47
M. C. C. 205. The other increased the former prescribed maximum
rates and provided for divisions of through fares among the companies carrying the District-Virginia passengers. 270 I. C. C. 651.

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

its District-Virginia bus line. Because of this the District Court held that since that date all of Transit's carriage of Virginia-bound passengers has been "intrastate
transportation."
The District Court's annulment of the Commission's
order on the above ground cannot stand. Our previous
holding was that all of Transit's intra-District carriage
of passengers bound to and from the Virginia establishments was part of an "interstate" movement and therefore subject to Commission regulation throughout, upon
proper Commission findings. United States v. Yellow
Cab Co., supra, does not conflict with our prior holding
that Transit's transportation was part of a continuous
stream of interstate transportation. We adhere to that
holding. Transit's intra-District streetcar and bus transportation of passengers going to and from the Virginia establishments is an integral part of an interstate
movement.
In support of the District Court's judgment it is urged
that there was no substantial evidence to support the
Commission's findings that its exercise of jurisdiction was
necessary to a national transportation system "adequate
to meet the needs of . . . the national defense." The
argument seems to be that the Commission should have
altered this finding made in the prior proceedings because
the nation is no longer at war. Another factor pointed
out is that there are now fewer Army and Navy workers
who work in the Virginia installations. Neither of these
arguments is sufficient to justify setting aside findings
made by the Commission on this point. The evidence
before the Commission in the two proceedings indicates
that the same reasons exist for Commission action now
as before. And despite attempted interference with the
Commission's power by the Public Utilities Commission
of the District, it is still true that neither the District

UNITED STATES v. CAPITAL TRANSIT CO.
286

291

Dissent.

nor Virginia has adequate power to regulate the through
rates for this daily stream of interstate travel.
It is also argued here that the orders should be set
aside because they are confiscatory. But the record fails
to show that this issue was properly presented to the
Commission for its determination. Therefore the question of confiscation is not ripe for judicial review.
We have examined other contentions urged in support
of the District Court's judgments and find that all are
without merit.
The judgments of the District Court in these cases are
reversed and the causes are remanded to it with directions
to dismiss these actions.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration
or decision of this case.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE REED,
TICE JACKSON

and MR. JUS-

dissenting.

The opinion in our view bases the judgment on a holding "that all of Transit's intra-District carriage of passengers bound to and from the Virginia establishments was
part of an 'interstate' movement and therefore subject to
Commission regulation throughout, upon proper Commission findings." Since the Court does not rest the applicability of the Motor Carrier Act, 49 Stat. 543, to the Capital
Transit Company on the existence of Transit's lines to
Maryland, we, too, lay that problem aside. We understand the Court to assert that the statute empowers the
Commission to enter the contested order whether or not
Transit operates admitted interstate routes.
The present case differs from the former case involving
the operations of the Transit Company. 325 U. S. 357.
In the earlier case Transit served Virginia areas in com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Dissent.

338 U. S.

petition with other interstate operators of busses. As
the operator of interstate routes selling through tickets
on its own lines, Transit was required also to sell and
accept through tickets that were good for passage on
other interstate lines. Such obligation was imposed by
§ 216 (e), the section prohibiting anything "unduly preferential or unduly prejudicial," and § 216 (c), the section
regulating charges for voluntary through rates. 325 U. S.
at 362.
Now Transit does not operate the interstate routes to
the Virginia points. It is not an interstate carrier over
the route for which it now is required to sell through
tickets. Therefore, the Court's opinion finds it necessary
to rely upon the stream of passengers between the District and Virginia to put Transit under the Motor Carrier
Act as engaged in interstate commerce so far as it transports, in the District, passengers with an ultimate out-ofstate destination. We do not believe the Act permits such
a construction.
Clearly the Act is limited to operations in interstate
commerce.1 Congress has not used the full extent of
its commerce power to reach incidents affecting interstate
transportation. It has emphasized a contrary intention
by providing for the exclusion from the coverage of the
Act, in certain situations, of interstate passenger traffic in
a municipality, contiguous municipalities or adjacent
zones. § 203 (b) (8). Likewise the Act specifically bars
the Commission from regulating intrastate transportation
1 "SEc.

202. (b) The provisions of this part apply to the transpor-

tation of passengers or property by motor carriers engaged in interstate or foreign commerce and to the procurement of and the provision of facilities for such transportation, and the regulation of such
transportation, and of the procurement thereof, and the provision of
facilities therefor, is hereby vested in the Interstate Commerce
Commission."

UNITED STATES v. CAPITAL TRANSIT CO.
286

293

Dissent.

on the ground that it affects interstate transportation.2
Since the Motor Carrier Act does not regulate carrier
activities that merely affect interstate commerce, we think
the stream of commerce theory inapplicable.' We cannot
agree that intrastate carriage of passengers who have an
intention to continue their journey across state lines by
way of another and wholly unconnected company makes
the first carrier a company engaged in interstate commerce
under the Motor Carrier Act as to that transportation.
The Court's decision may have unfortunate results.
Its unlimited language sweeps into the hands of the Commission the regulation of all local transportation that
carries a large proportion of passengers destined for or
arriving from out-of-state points. For example, the
Court's ruling would seem to include the New York City
commuter traffic moving by local bus, subway and streetcar service on its way to and from interstate busses.

2

"That nothing in this part shall empower the Commission to

prescribe, or in any manner regulate, the rate, fare, or charge for
intrastate transportation, or for any service connected therewith, for
the purpose of removing discrimination against interstate commerce
or for any other purpose whatever." § 216 (e).
See McLeod v. Threlkeld, 319 U. S. 491; Labor Board v. Jones &
Laughlin, 301 U. S. 1; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U. S.495.

