OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

HUBSCH v. UNITED STATES.
ON APPLICATION OF PETITIONERS AND THE SOLICITOR GENERAL FOR APPROVAL OF SETTLEMENT.

No. 379.

Decided December 19, 1949.*

The authority and responsibility for passing upon a proposed compromise of a claim arising under the Federal Tort Claims Act,
after commencement of an action thereon, are imposed by 28

U. S. C. ยง 2677 on the District Court; and such a proposed compromise, submitted here after grant of certiorari to review a judgment of the Court of Appeals affirming judgments of the District
Court on such claims, is referred to the District Court for consideration and disposition.

Morris Berick was on the application for petitioners.
Solicitor General Perlman was on the application for
the United States.
PER CURIAM.

We granted writs of certiorari in these cases, 338 U. S.
814, to review a decision of the Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit, 174 F. 2d 7, affirming judgments of the
District Court for the Southern District of Florida in
favor of the United States on claims arising under the
Federal Tort Claims Act. Before argument, petitioners
and the Solicitor General submitted a joint application
for approval of proposed settlements of the claims, citing
28 U. S. C. ยง 2677, which reads as follows:
"The Attorney General, with the approval of the
court, may arbitrate, compromise, or settle any claim
cognizable under section 1346 (b) of this title [suits
under the Tort Claims Act], after the commencement
of an action thereon."
*Together with No. 380, Schweitzer v. United States.

HUBSCH v. UNITED STATES.
440

441

Opinion of the Court.

We construe ยง 2677 as imposing on the District Court
the authority and responsibility for passing on proposed
compromises, notwithstanding the judgments of the
Court of Appeals affirming the judgments of the District
Court heretofore entered herein. The application and
stipulations are therefore referred to the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Florida with
authority to consider and dispose of the same.
It is so ordered.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.

