OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Syllabus.

338 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. YELLOW CAB CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 22. Argued November 14-15, 1949.-Decided December 5, 1949.
In a suit to restrain violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act
through a conspiracy to restrain and monopolize the sale of taxicabs by control of the principal companies operating them in certain
states, the trial court carefully weighed the evidence, found it
insufficient to support the allegations of the complaint and entered
judgment for defendants. Held: Judgment affirmed. Pp. 339-342.
(a) For triers of fact totally to reject an opposed view impeaches
neither their impartiality nor the propriety of their conclusions.
Labor Board v. Pittsburgh Steamship Co., 3:37 U. S. 656. P. 341.
(b) Rule 52, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, applies to appeals
by the Government as well as to those by other litigants. Pp. 341342.
(c) Where the evidence would support a conclusion either way
and the trial court has decided it to weigh more heavily for the
defendants, such a choice between two permissible views of the
weight of the evidence is not "clearly erroneous" within the meaning

of Rule 52. P. 342.
80 F. Supp. 936, affirmed.

In a suit to enjoin alleged violations of §§ 1 and 2 of
the Sherman Act, the District Court found that the evidence did not support the allegations of the complaint
and entered judgment for defendants. 80 F. Supp. 936.
On appeal to this Court, affirmed, p. 342.
Charles H. Weston argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the brief were Solicitor General
Perlman, Assistant Attorney General Bergson, Joseph W.
Bishop, Jr. and J. Roger Wollenberg.
Jesse Climenko argued the cause for appellees.
him on the brief was Harold S. Lynton.

With

UNITED STATES v. YELLOW CAB CO.
338

339

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit in equity, under §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman
Act, 15 U. S. C. §§ 1 and 2, originally included three
charges of violation: (1) conspiracy to restrain and monopolize transportation of interstate travelers by taxicab
between Chicago railroad stations and their homes, offices
and hotels; (2) conspiracy to eliminate competition for
the business of transporting passengers between different
Chicago railroad stations; and (3) conspiracy to restrain
and monopolize the sale of taxicabs by control of the
principal companies operating them in Chicago, New
York, Pittsburgh and Minneapolis. On a previous appeal this Court held the first of the charges not to state
a case within the statute, and that charge no longer
concerns us. United States v. Yellow Cab Co., 332 U. S.
218. The court below found that the Government failed
to prove the second charge and no appeal is taken from
that part of the judgment, so that charge has been eliminated. We have held that the residue of the complaint,
embodying the third charge, alleges a cause of action
within the statute, but only on the expressed assumption
that the facts alleged are true, United States v. Yellow
Cab Company, supra,at 224; but the trial court has found
that the Government, at the trial, has failed on all the
evidence to prove its case. 80 F. Supp. 936. The cause
is before us by a direct appeal under the Expediting Act,
15 U. S. C. § 29, and not by an exercise of our discretionary jurisdiction.
The first question proposed by the Government is
whether the evidence sustains the findings of fact by the
District Court. This is the basic issue, and the Government raises no question of law that has an existence independent of it. This issue of fact does not arise upon the
trial court's disregard or misunderstanding of some def-

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
Opinion of the Court.

338 U. S.

inite and well-established fact. It extends to almost
every detail of the decision, the Government saying that
the trial court "ignored . . . substantially all of the facts
which the Government deemed significant."
What the Government asks, in effect, is that we try
the case de novo on the record, reject nearly all of the
findings of the trial court, and substitute contrary findings
of our own. Specifications of error which are fundamental to its case ask us to reweigh the evidence and review findings that are almost entirely concerned with
imponderables, such as the intent of parties to certain
1929 business transactions, whether corporate officers were
then acting in personal or official capacities, what was the
design and purpose and intent of those who carried out
twenty-year-old transactions, and whether they had legitimate business motives or were intending to restrain trade
of their competitors in car manufacture, such as General
Motors, Ford, Chrysler and Packard.
These were the chief fact issues in a trial of three weeks'
duration. The Government relied in large part on inferences from its 485 exhibits, introduced by nine witnesses.
The defendants relied heavily on oral testimony to contradict those inferences. The record is before us in 1,674
closely-printed pages.
The Government suggests that the opinion of the trial
court "seems to reflect uncritical acceptance of defendants' evidence and of defendants' views as to the facts to
be given consideration in passing upon the legal issues
before the court." We see that it did indeed accept defendants' evidence and sustained defendants' view of the
facts. But we are unable to discover the slightest justification for the accusation that it did so "uncritically."
Also, it rejected the inferences the Government drew
from its documents, but we find no justification for the
statement that it "ignored" them. The judgment below
is supported by an opinion, prepared with obvious care,

UNITED STATES v. YELLOW CAB CO.
338

341

Opinion of the Court.

which analyzes the evidence and shows the reasons for
the findings. To us it appears to represent the considered
judgment of an able trial judge, after patient hearing, that
the Government's evidence fell short of its allegations-a
not uncommon form of litigation casualty, from which the
Government is no more immune than others.
Only last term we accepted the view then advanced
by the Government that for triers of fact totally to reject
an opposed view impeaches neither their impartiality nor
the propriety of their conclusions. We said, "We are
constrained to reject the court's conclusion that an objective finder of fact could not resolve all factual conflicts
arising in a legal proceeding in favor of one litigant. The
ordinary lawsuit, civil or criminal, normally depends for
its resolution on which version of the facts in dispute
is accepted by the trier of fact. . . ." Labor Board v.
Pittsburgh Steamship Co., 337 U. S. 656, 659.
Rule 52, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, provides,
among other things:
"Findings of fact shall not be set aside unless
clearly erroneous, and due regard shall be given to the
opportunity of the trial court to judge of the credibility of the witnesses."
Findings as to the design, motive and intent with which
men act depend peculiarly upon the credit given to witnesses by those who see and hear them. If defendants'
witnesses spoke the truth, the findings are admittedly
justified. The trial court listened to and observed the
officers who had made the records from which the Government would draw an inference of guilt and concluded
that they bear a different meaning from that for which
the Government contends.
It ought to be unnecessary to say that Rule 52 applies
to appeals by the Government as well as to those by
other litigants. There is no exception which permits it,

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

338 U. S.

even in an antitrust case, to come to this Court for what
virtually amounts to a trial de novo on the record of
such findings as intent, motive and design. While, of
course, it would be our duty to correct clear error, even
in findings of fact, the Government has failed to establish
any greater grievance here than it might have in any
case where the evidence would support a conclusion either
way but where the trial court has decided it to weigh more
heavily for the defendants. Such a choice between two
permissible views of the weight of evidence is not "clearly
erroneous."
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS

and MR.

JUSTICE CLARK

took no

part in the consideration or decision of this case.
MR. JUSTICE BLACK,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE REED

concurs, dissenting.
The evidence showed here without dispute that a manufacturer of taxicabs through a series of stock purchases
obtained 62% of the stock of a corporation which itself
had large stock interests in local companies operating
taxicabs. The man who was president, general manager,
director, and dominant stockholder in the taxicab manufacturing company also held an important managerial
position in the corporate network that carried on the business of the local taxicab operating companies. The findings of the District Court were that the affiliated ownership, management and control were not the result of any
deliberate or calculated purpose of the manufacturing
company to control the operating companies' purchases
of taxicabs, and that no compulsion had been exercised
to control such purchases. Consequently the trial court
held that despite the integration of corporate management there was no violation of the Sherman Act. I think

UNITED STATES v. YELLOW CAB CO.
338

BLACK,

343

J., dissenting.

that the trial court erred in holding that a formed intent
to suppress competition is an indispensable element of
violations of the Sherman Act.
In United States v. Griffith, 334 U. S. 100, 105, 106,
we said:
"It is, however, not always necessary to find a
specific intent to restrain trade or to build a monopoly in order to find that the anti-trust laws have
been violated. It is sufficient that a restraint of
trade or monopoly results as the consequence of
a defendant's conduct or business arrangements.
United States v. Patten, 226 U. S. 525, 543; United
States v. Masonite Corp., 316 U. S. 265, 275. To
require a greater showing would cripple the Act ...
[E]ven if we accept the District Court's findings
that appellees had no intent or purpose unreasonably
to restrain trade or to monopolize, we are left with
the question whether a necessary and direct result
of the master agreements was the restraining or
monopolizing of trade within the meaning of the
Sherman Act."
Measured by this test the findings of the trial court here
fail to support its legal conclusions that no violation of
the Sherman Act had been proven. Since the trial court
went on the assumption that subjective intent to suppress
competition is an essential ingredient of Sherman law violations, it did not make specific findings as to whether
the freedom of the taxicab companies to buy taxicabs from
other manufacturers had been hobbled by the defendants'
business arrangements, regardless of compulsion or intent
to destroy competition. There was much evidence tending to show this hobbling of competition. I think that
the allegations of the complaint were sufficiently broad
to present this issue for adjudication by the court. Moreover, presentation of the issue was emphasized by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1949.
BLACK,

J., dissenting.

338 U. S.

fact that a large amount of evidence to prove successful
accomplishment of monopoly or restraints of trade was
admitted without any objection by the defendants based
on variance from the pleadings. See Federal Rule of
Civil Procedure 15 (b).
There is evidence in the record to the effect that as a
result of the corporate arrangements here the manufacturing company obtained sufficient power to dictate the
terms of purchases by the local companies; there is also
evidence that those companies did thereafter limit their
purchases of taxicabs almost exclusively to those sold by
the manufacturing defendant. Moreover, the evidence
shows that such taxicabs were in some instances bought
by the local company at prices above those paid by other
taxicab companies wholly free to buy taxicabs in a competitive market. This evidence, if accepted, would support a finding of illegal restraint of trade or monopoly
under the Griffith rule. I think the cause should be
remanded for the trial court to consider the evidence and
make findings on this aspect of the case.

