OF THE UNITED STATES.
cent., is to be allowed from the time of payment up to
the time of thisjudgment. And the decree of the cir0
cuit court is to be reformed accordingly.
Decree reformed.

(CHANCERY;)
CRAIG V. LESLIE etal.
It. C., a citisen of Virginia, being seized of real property in th1E
tate, made his will: -In the first place I give, devise, and bequeath
unto J. L.- and four others, "all my ertate, real and personal, of
which I may die seized and possessed in an. part of Ameuric.,,in special trust, that the afore-mentioned persons, or such of them as may be
living at my dealh, u ill sell my personal cstate to the highest bidder
on two years credit, and my real estate on one, t.vo and three years
credit, provided satisfectory security be given by bond and deed of
1rust. In the second place, I give an bequeath to my brother T. C."
an alien, "a!l the proceeds-of my estate, real and personal, which I have
herein directed to be sold, to be remitted to him, accordingly as the
payments are wade, and I hereby declare the aforesaid J. L." and the
four other persons, "to be my trustees and executors for the purposes
afore-mentioned." Held, that the legacy given to T. C., in the will of
R. C., was to be considered asa bequest of personal estate, which he
was capable of a.:iig for his own benefit, though an alien.
Equity considers land, directed in wills, or other instruments, to blo
iold and converted into money, as money; and money directed to be
;mployed in the purchase of land, as land.
Where the whole beneficial interest in the land or money, thus directed to be employed, belongs to the person for whose ule it is given
aaourtofequity will permit the cestui que trust to take the money

1818.

g
Craig
v.
Leslie.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

164
1818.

or the lard at his election, if

he elect before the convers;of i

Smade.

Craig
V

But in case of the death of the cestui que trusl, 1 ithout having detormined his election, the property will pass to his heirs or personal rt-

presentatives, ii,the same mannier as it would have done if the conversion had been made, and the trust executed inhis life time.
The ease of Roper v. Igadeliff, 9 .od. 167. exinined ; distinquished
from the present case ; and, so far as it conflicts with it, overruled.

"iLIs was a case certified frbm the circuit court for
the district of Virginia, in which the opinions of the
judges of that court were opposed on the following
'question ; viz. Whether the legacy given to Thomas
Craig, an alien, in the will of Robert Craig, is to be
considered as a devise, which he can take only for the
benefit of the commonwealth, and cannot hold ; or a
bequest of a personal chattel, which he could take
for his own benefit ?
This, question grows out of the will of Robert Craig,
,a citizen of Virginia, and arose in a suit brought on
the equity side of the circuit court for the district of
Virginia, by Thomns Craig, against the trustee named
in the will of the said Robert Craig, to compel the said
trustee to execute the trusts, by sellin the trust fund,
and paying over the pr6ceeds of the same to the complainant.,
The clause in the will of Robert Craig, upon which
the q,,-stion arises, is expressed in the following terms
viz. "'In 'he first place, I give, devise, and bequeath
unto John L, lie," and four others, "tall my estate, real-and personal, of which I may die seized or possessed; in any part of America, in special trust, that the
;afore-mentioned persons, or such -of them as may be

OF THE UNITED STATES.
living atrmy death, will sell my personal estate to the
highest bidder, on two years credit, and my real estate
on one, two, ahd three years ciedit, provided satisfactcry security be given, by bond and deed of trust. In
the second place, 'I give and bequeath to my brother,
Thomas Craig, of Beith parish, Ayrshire, Scotland, all
the~proceeds of my estate, both real a nl personal,
which I have herein directed to be sold, to be remitted
unto him accordingly as the paynients are made, and I
hereby declare the aforesaid John Leslie," and the four
other persons, "to be, ipy trustees and executord for the
purposes afore -merioned.

;18
Craig.
v.
Lclie.

The attorney generat ot Virginia, on behalf of that
state, filed a cross bill against the plaintiff in'the original suit, and the trustee, the prayer of 'vhich is 'to
,compel the trustee to sell the trust estate, so far as it
-consists of real estate, and to appropriate the proceeds
to the use of the said commonwealth by paying' 'the
same into its public treasury.
The will of Robert Craig was proved in June, 1811,
and the present suit was instituted some time in the
year 1815.
Mr. JVicholas, (attorney general of Virginia,) argu- Feb. 20th.
ed, that most, if not all nations, have imposed some
restrictions upon the capacity of aliens, to hold to-"
perty within the territory of the nation, The law -of
England and the law of Virginia being the same in
this respect, there is no want of reciprocity, and there
is a peculiar fitness in extending the same rule to British subjects in this country, as is imposed on Ameri-

CASES. IN THE SUPREME COURT
cahicitizens in England. By the law of England
1818.
Craig ,an alien cannot take a freehold y inheritance; he
may take by purchase, but cannot hold: it escheat3
v.
to the crown upon an inquest of office. Nor is this
Leslie.
inctpacity confined to a freehold interest : it exteinds
to leaseholds, and any the smallestinterest in lands.a
The severity' of this rule has been relaxed only for
the benefit of commerce, and that very partialjy.
An alien merchant may take a lease for years of
a house for habitation, but not of lands, &c. And .eo
other alien can even take a lease of a house for habiThe rule may be considered as illiberal, and
tation.b
inconsistent" with the enlightened spirit of. the age;
but its wisdom may be -vindicated on many grounds ;
and it can only be dispensed with by the legislative
will, or by compact Nvith foreign nations. As Lord
Mansfield 4iid of the laws against the Papists, "whether the policy be sound or not, so long as they
continue in force they must be executed by courts of
justice according to their true intent and meaning.
The legislature only can vary or alter the law."c The
property in question consisted of real estate, which
remained in specielat the time of the devisoils death.
The devise of a trust in lands cannot operate for the
benefit of an alien. No equitable fiction can change
the specific quality of the property. It i3 the settled
doctrine of the common law, that an alien cestai que
a Co, Lit. 2. b largrave's notes. Calvin's case, Co. Rp.
part 7. 18. b.
c Foone v. Blount, Cowp. 466.
1 lb.

5

OF THE UNITED STATES.

1818.
trilt~can only take for the king's use'a .All the reasons t of policy wlich incapacitate him from holding C .raig
a ligal estate in lands, equally apply to disable him
T.
from, h6lding an equitable esiate in the same species Leslie.
of prpperty; it is the usufruct, of which the law aim.-?
tqieprive him. Trust estates are governed by precisely the same rules as legal estates. "The f'crium
where it is adjudged," says Lord Mansfield, speakipg in a court of equity, "is the only difference
between trusts and legal estates. Trusts here are
cqnsidere1, as between the cestui que trust, and
trustee, (and all claiming -by, through or under
them or in consequence of their estates;) as the
ownership and as legal estates, except when it can
be pleade'l in bar of this right of jurisdiction. Whatever would be the rule of- law if it was a legal estate,
is applied in equityto a trust estate."b Again; speak-i
ing of the case of Banks v. Sutton, he says, "So that
I take it by the great authorily of this determination
:on clear law and reason, cestui que trust is actually
and absolutely seized of the freehold in consideration of this court; and. that, therefore, the legal consequence of an actual seizure of the freehold, shall
in this court follow for the benefit of one in the
a The King v. Holland, S!!les, 20. SlMyn, 14. Rolle's A.br.
15. .534. The AttJi ney General v. Sir George Sands, 180,
131. 3 Ch. Rep. 33. Hbart, 214. 1 Mud. 1.7. Hardres,
495. Cro. Jac. 512, G;icrl on Uses and TrusLfs, 24-.
1

Cow.

Dig. 300. 1Bac. 15r. let. C. lit.
.lien, 1:32.

Harri-

son's caz', Mr. Jeffersin's correspondence with Mr. Hammond, State Paprrs, Waite's ed. voL 1. p. 374.

b Burgess v. Wheate; I W. BL. -160,

58
181 .
Ci
Craig
v.
Leslie.

CASES' IN THE SUPREMETCOURT
The cestri que trnst, in the present case7
takes an interest which extends to the whole estate
with an election to take it as land. Nobody but he
can cormipel the trustees to sell, and they may holod

pait.,,a

the trust, and apply it for the benefit of the cestui
que trust forever'' This is precisely the mode in which
the monastic and other ecclesiastical institutions, perverted the invention of uses, in order to evade the
statutes of imortmain, anct they might be applied in the
s34ne manner to evade the disability of aliens to hold
a legal estate in -real property. Even supposing this
to be a personal trust; it is a devise of the profits growing out of land, which would, until a sale,
accumulate for the advantage of an alien, and is
equivalent to a devise of the land itself to an alien.6
There is nothing compulsory upon the trustees to
sell, and by collusion between them and the cestti.
que trust, the sale might be postponed forever, whilst
an alien enjoyed the profits of the lands, and. transmitted them tb his representative. But this devise
of the proceeds of th sale of lands was, in effect,
a devise of real property. The lea:'ing case on this
silbjecte is strongly fortified by subsequent decisions. d In Roper v. Radcliffe, it was solemnly deall. 161, 16
b 1 Sa M 228. 1 E 7.Cas. Abr. 93. 1 Yes. 41. Go. Lift
48. a. Cro. Eliz. 199o
c Roper v. RI.adcliffe, 9 luad. 17. 13 1.
d The Attorney Gmneral v. Lord WeVymouth, Ambler, 20
Davers v. Dewes, 3 P. Wins. 46. Hill v. Filkens, - P. Wins.
6. 10 Mod. 483. Tire King v. The Inhabitants of Wivelingham, Doug. 737.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

56

1818.
terniined that lands given in trusts or derived to pay
debts and legacies, shall be deemed as money in res- Cai
pect to creditors, but not in respect to the heir at law
v.
or residuary legatee, in respect to whom they shall be Leslie.
deemed in equity as'lands: and thai, consequently, the
residue, in that case, being devised to persons incapable
of holding an interest in lands, the devise was vi .The application of this principle to the present cd:!e is
obvious. Nor can the consequence of forftiture be
avoided by.the cestai que trust electinc to take the
property as money. The exercise of the right of election for such a purpose was denied in Roper v. Radcliffe, and in the Attorney General v. Lord Weymouth.
The rights of th e commonwealth may be enforced
in a court of equity, because the disability of an
alien to hold lands for his own benefit is not considered as'a penal forfeiture, but arises merely from the"
policy of the law. It has, therefore, been adjudged in
equity, that he cannot demur to the discovery of
any circumstances necessary to establish the fact of
alienage.a
Mr. Vickharm, contra, argued, that this was a
mere quiestion as between the heirs and personal representatives. If the property in question be real
property in the view of a court of equity, it is admitted that an alien cannot hold it. But, on the other
hand, if it be personal property, it cannot be denied
that he may take and hold it. If, as between citia The Attorney General v. Duplessis, Parker, 144. 5 Bro.
FarL Cas. 91.

Ve,-. III

23

,CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
Craig
v.1
Leslie.

zens, it be personal, property, it must be so as respects aliens. A court of law can only 'look to the
legal quality of the property. At law the interest
is vested in the trustee; but a court of equity takes
notice of the title of the ccstui que trust, as beneficially interested, and regards the quality of the estate
as respects his interest only. It is incontestible,'that
there may be personal trusts of real property. Such
are the familiar instances of trusts for the payment of
debts and legacies charged on land; trusts for raising
portions, and bankrupt's estates; in all of w*hich the
property goes to the personal representatives, without any question as to tht citizenship or alienage of
'tbe cestui que trust. It is an elementary principle,
which lays at the very foundation of the doctiine of
equity, that land d*.rected to be sold and converted
into money, and money directed to be employed
in the purchase of land, are considered as that species
of property into which they are directed to be converted.a And it is immaterial in what manner the
direction is given, whether by will or deed; or in
what state the property is found, in land or notcb The
argun.ent on the other side, that the alien having the
a Doughty v. Bull, 2 P. Wins. 32., Attorney Genera; v.
Johnson, Atnl. 580. Yates v. Compton, 2 P. Wimn. 503.
Fletcher v. Ashburner, I Bro. Ch.-Cas. 501. Ackroyd v.
Smithsoni, Id. 503. Berrs v. Usher, I I Pes. 87. Robinson v.
Taylor, 2 Bro. Ch. Cas. 589. Williams v. Coade, 10 Ves.,500.
Biddulph v. Biddulph 12 Ves. 160.
l"Edwards et ux. v- Coun.,es. of Warwick, 2 P. Wins. 171.
Biddulph v. Biddulph 12 Ves. 160. Thornton v. Hawley. 0
Ves. 129

OF THE UNITED STATES.
right to elect that the property should not be sold,
therefore it must be considered as land, may be answered by another, equally good: That having the
right to say it shall be sold, it must, therefore, be
But it is denied that an
considered as money.
alien has an election to make it real property. As
an infant cannot make an election for want of capacity ;,z so an alien cannot elect to take, because he
canot hold real property. The right of' election is
a benevolent principle, applying for the benefit, not
The cestui que trust, in
for the injuiy of parties.b
this case has elected to* take it as money, by his bill
praying for a sale. -But, supposing him to have been
silent, the elementary writers lay down the rule
that it remains personal property. As the party who
has his election, may determin'e to take the property
as land to be sold for his benefit, or money to be
investeJ in land, the question can only arise between
the heirs and persoual representatives. Some cases,
which appear to be exceptions to the rule, confirm it,
Such are the cases of a resulting trust to the heir,
where the purposes of the trust are fulfilled, or at an
end;c the cases where the union 'of title to the estate, as real and personal, extinguishes the demand,d
and the cases where the intention is obscure. The
rule extends to all cases where the quality of money
a Seely'v. Jago, I P. Wins. 289. Earlom v. Saunders,
.nibL 241.
b Grimmit v. Grimmit, .Ambl. 210
c Hewitt v. Wright, I Bro. Ch. Cas. 86. And.see 16 Yes.
191. 18 Yea. 174. 1 Ves. 4-. Beames, 272.
d Pultney v. Lord Darlington, I Bro. CI. Cas. S26.

IL13.
CidigT.
Les!ie.

72
1813.
'
v.
Leslie.

CASES IN THE SUPREEM COURT
is imperatively fixed on land by the will or deed.
As to Roper v. Radcliffe, its analogy to the present
case is remote; it has always been considered a very
questiohable case; and it is not to be put in competition with the more direct authorities already cited.
By the act of Parlia4nt, under \vbich that case was
determined, a Catholic cannot even purchase but at
common law, an alien may not only purchase, but
hwod against all the world except" the crown. That
-case ig not cbnfirmed by Lord Chancellor King, in
Davers v. Dewes. On the contrary, he says, that
if the point "were res integra, it would be, indeed,
very questionable:'a
Its reasoning is also luestioned
by Lord Mansfield.b
The case of the 'Attorney General v. Lord Waymouthe does n6t fortify it, and
has no analogy to the case nov before the, court.
Here "s no devise of the annual perceptions of profits,
but the cestai qu'e.trz.t is entitled to the proceeds
of the sale of the land as a sum in gross ; Pnd there
is no precedent far confiscating profits of af -estate
purchased by an alien,'which profits were actually,
received before office found. Nor can the argument,
'that, Iby"collusion between the trustee and the alien
que trust, the latter may go on for ever receiving the profits of. land, be supported; because it is
arguing against a right from it possible abuse, (always an unsound mode of reasomng,) and, because
the same thing may hapFen bet',een an alien and any
-cesttti

a 3 -P. lWns. 46.
b Foone v. Blount, Cowp. 467
9 Anmbl. 20.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
6stensible owner of land. All that a court of equity,
1818.
in any case, would do, would be 'to refuse Ao- decree
the land to the Mien;, and compelhim to relinquish hi3 Craig
V.
claim unless he took the money. But equity, ywill not Lesie.
aid to enforce a confiscation. Thus, where the 4estator
directed money io be laid out itlanI, the mpney not
having' been laid out, Lord Rosslyn held, that the
crown, on failure of heirs, had no equity against the:
next of kin to have it laid out in real estate in order to
claim by escheat.4
The ,Attorney-General, in reply, -admitted, that in
considering the legal operation of the devise, the national character of the devisee Wis to be laid out of
, view; and that the estate, Which its terms would pass
could not be varied by any consideration of that char.-actei. As an alien is capable of taking (though not
of holding) a direct fee in the lands, he is also capable of taking any lesser estate than a fee, under any
.modification of trust, express or implied. There is
nothing, therefore in the character of an alien to repel, or even to narrow1 the legal operation of the terms
of the devise. Whatever estate they wouid passto a
citizen, the same they will pass to an alien. What
estate then vould pass to a citizen? It is said,
a personal estate only, because, the testator having,'directed the land to be sold, -has stamped upon it the
character t;f personal properiy. But this is not the
whole effect of the terms of the devise. They
give to the legatee the option of taking the land ; and
a Walker v. Donne, -2 Ves. Jun; 170.

74
1818.
%7W
Crag
Leslie.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
land itin so doing, they give him an interest in the
self. This option thus c:.st upon the legatee is not the
To create the
effect of any act to be done by him.
right of election, it is not iecessary that he shr uld acelect. The
tnally elect, or that he should be able to
confounding
mistake on the other -ide results from
that right.
of
exeicise
the
the right of eleclion with
The right to choose is the legal effect of the devise,
The fact of
and stamps a character on the estate.
or may not
electing is a subsequent act, wh'ch may
cannot
take, place ; but which, whether done or not,
option
the
or
devise,
the
alter either the character of
under
taking
of
which it casts upon every one capable
option
it, or the legal estate in the lands which this
by the
creates. The option thus given to the devisee
which,
terms of the will is an operative principle,
that
instant!
eo
whether exercised or not, still gives
the will ta'kes effect, an interest in the lands, which,
pass to the
if the devisee Ixe incapable of holding, they
of this option
commonwealth. So far is the effect
done by the debe
to
from awaiting an act or election
it has been dethat
visee, and depending on such act,
been made to
cided where a subsequent elee"nn hal
the interest
take as money, by persons disabled to hold
late to
too
came
election
in land, that the act of
virtue
by
whieh,
devise,
change the character of the
dethe
upon
of the option it carried with it, had thrown
itwill
the
visee an estate in the lands the instant
that the decision
self began its operation. It is true
a particular act
on
in Roper v. Radcliffe is founded
is no objection,
of parliament against papists; but this

OF THE UNITED STATES

57

1818.
if the act of parliament creates precisely the same disCraig
common
the
abilities in respect to the Catholics which
..
law had created in relation to aliens. For if their resLeslie.
devise
a
pective disabilities as to the land be the same,
of lands to one, .viil receive precisely the same construction as a devise of lands to the other. The object of the stat. of 1 tli and 12Ih of William III. ch. 4.
was to render Papists aliens, in regard to lands in England. The stability of the g-ivernment being supposed to depend upon this p'-licy, "the design of the maker of this law," says Lord Chief Justice Parker, "was,
first, to get the lands of this kingdom out of the hands
of Papists. '-"And, secondly to prevent them from'
making any new aquisition."a The first objection does
not relate to aliens; but the second applies precisely to,
them, and thu. provisions of the act, as to Papists, are
substantially the same with those of the common law as.
to aliens. It is not, however, the disabilities of either
which are to affect the construction of this devise: that construction is first to be made on the terms
of the devise itself, and ihen whatever legal conse-.
quence would result from the disability of the one, will
equally result from that of the other. In Roper v. Rad:
cliffe, it was held that, though lands devised to be ab-

solutely sold for the payment of debts and legacies,
were to be consideredl as money, so far as creditors and'
legatees were concerned, yet, as to the residuary de-visee they were to be considered as lands, because
of his option to prevent the sale by paying the debts.
a 9 Mod. 191.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.
1818.
Craig
a.

and legacies or his option to have a decree for
the sale of so much only at the debts and legacies should require; and, it was determined in that

Leslie.

case, that the

.Afrc/r I Ith.

residuum devised to the Papists
should be considered as land, and, therefore, wifhin the prohibition of !he statute. The authority
of this-case has been repeatedly recognized in subse.
quent decisions, all of which concur to show that,
though a devise of lands to be sold is considered as
personal estate, as to creditors and specific legatees,
yet it is considered as land in respect to the heirs
and residuary legatees.a And \yhere none of it is
wanting for the payment of debts and legacies, the
whole may be retained as land. This doctrine is
founded on the right of "election, resulting from the
devise. But no actual election need be made to produce the legal effect; it is the same, though the parties
are disabled to elect: they cannot defeat it- operation
by electing to take as money; and where nothing is
done indicative of an election, the principle still operates.
Mr. Justice

WASHINGTON

delivered the opinion of
the court. The incapacity of an alien to take, and
to hold beneficially, a legal or equitable estata in real
property, is not disputed by the counsel for the plaintiff; and it is admitted by the counsel for the state of
a Hill v. Fdkins, 2 P. Wins. 6. Davers v. Dewe3, 3 P.Wins.
46, Carrick v. Fergus, 2 P. Wins. 362. 2 Bro. Parl. Caa.
412. 2 P. Wins. 4. The Attorney General v. Lcrd Wey.
mouth, Ambl 20. The King v. The Inhabitants of WivelinghM, Doug. 737.

OF THE UNITED SrATES.

b77

Virginia, that this incapacity does not extend to person1818.
al estate. The only irquiry, then,' which this court
r
has to make is, whether the above clause in the will of Craig
v.
Robert Craig, is 'to be construed, under all the Leslie.
circumstances of this case, as a bequbst to Thomas
Craig of personal property, or as a devise of the land
itself?
Were this a new question, it would seem extreme,
ly difficult to raise a dou.bt respecting it. The common
sense of mankind would determine, that a devise of
morley, the proceeds of land directed to be sold, is a
devise of money, notwithstanding it is to arise out of
land; and-that a devise of land, which a testator
by his will directs to be, purchased, will pass an interestin theland itself, without regard to the character of the fund out )f which the parchase is to
be made,
The settled doctrine of the courts of equity corres- si
lan.
ty
pond with this obvious ccnstruction of wills,i. as well reted to be
sold and con.
as of other 'instruments, whereby land is directed to money,
verted as into
rnobe turned into money, or money into land, for the ney.; and mobenefit of those for whose use the conversion is intEn- ne directd
teemployed
ded to be made. In the case of Fletcher v. Ash-inthepurchase
land, as
burner, (I Bro. Ch. Cas, 497.) the master of the rolls of
land.
says, that "nothing is better established than this
principle, that money directed to be employed in the
purchase of land, and land directed to be sold and
turned into money, are to be considered as that species.
of property into which they are'directed to be converted, and this, in whatever manner the direction is
given."
-re adds, "the owner of the fund, or the
contracting parties,' may make land money, or money
VOL. III.
74

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT

578

'

1818.
Craig
V.i

leslie.

land. The cases establish this rule univerially."
by the cases top
This declaration is well warranted
as well as by
refers,
rolls
the
of
master
the
which
2 P. Wns.
many others. (See Dougherty v. Bull,
v.
Trelawney
320. Yeates v. Compton, Id. 358.
Booth, 2 .t4c. 307.
this doctrine
The principle upon which the whole of
the subregarding
equity,
of
is founded is, that a court
of
cumstances
ci,
and
stancle, and not, the mere forms
things
agreements and other instruments, considers
been actually
directed or agreed to be one, as having
whicb ought
performed, where nothing has intervened
of the
qualification
This
to prevent a performance.
considers
equity
more concise and general rule, that
done, will
that to be (lone which is agreed to be
this head of
comprehend the cases which come under

Where theequity.
interest in the mo-Whole benefi- Thus, where the whole beneficial

cial interest in
in the land in the other, belongs
theland in one ney in the one case, or
use it is given, a court of equicase, rn the to the person for whose
person. ty will not compel the trustee to execute the trust
to
ier,the belong

perfor whose use against the wishes of the cestuy que trsf, but will
it is given, a --

land, if he elect tocourt ofequity mit him totake the money or the
conversion has' actually been made:
westui ursthedo so before the

this election he may make, as well by acts or decto that ef,I
.crmination
clearly indicating
It is this
equity.
of
the conyersionfect as by application to a court
election, and not the mere right to make it, which chanis nade"
it real or
ges the character of-the estate so as to make
the bcne-fi
personal, at the will of the party entitled to
cial interest.
to take the mand

at
rey or land
before ..
he elect
iflarations,
election,
1,is

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18.
If this election be not mtde in time to stamp the
Craig
property with a character different from that which
v.
the will or -other instrument gives it, the latter acLeslie.
the
into
,companies it, with all its legal consequences,
hands of those entitled to' it in that character. So But it %ehjithout
that in case of the death of the cestzy qui trust, with-t"
deterhaving
will
property
the
out having determined his election,
prothe
tion, will pass
. pery
pass to his heirs or personAl representatives, in the

same manner as it would have (lone had the trust been to his helrs'
relife or personal

presentaves,
executed, and the conversion actually made in his
in the same
manner as it
,-ime.
would
conWhich
Yes.)
(13
Mills,
done i thehave
v.
Kirkman
of
case
Inathe
had
devise ofreal estate to trustees upon trust toversion made,,
was
_been
the trust
well as the rents and
sell, and themoneys arising, as
profits till the sale, to be equally divided between the lifexectedinhis
testators, three daughters, A. B. and C: The estate
was, upon the death of A. B. and C., considered and
treated as personal property, notwithstanding the
x.estuy que trusts, after the death of the testator, had
entered upon, and occupied the land for about two
years prior to their deaths; but no steps had been
taken by them, or by the trustees, to sell, nor had any
requisition to that effect been inade by the former to
the latter. The master of the rolls was of opinion
that the occupation of the land for two years was
t6o shortto presume an election. He adds, "the opinion of Lord Rosslyn, that property was to be taken
as it happened to be at the death of the party front
whom the representative claims, had been much
doubted by Lord Eldon, who held, that without some
act, it must be considered as being in the state in

OCASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
IR18
Craig
V.
.lesle.

which it ought to be ; and that Lord Rosslyn's rule
wasnew, and not according to the prior cases.
The same doctrine is laid down and maintained in
the casa of Edwards Y. The Countess of Warwick
(2- P. Wins. 171.) which was a covenant on mariage
to invest 10,0001., part ofthe lady's fortune, in the pur
chase of land in fee, to be settled on the husband fo
life, remainder to his first and every other son in tai
male, remainder to the husband in fee. The only
son of this marriage having died without issue, and "in
testate, and the investment of the money not having
been made during his life, the chancellor decided that
the money passed to the heir at law ; th?,t it was in the
election of the son to have made this money, or to have
disposed of it as such, and that, therefore, even his
parol disposition of it would have been regarded;
,but that something to determine the election must be
-none.

This doctrine, so -xeli"established by the cases which
"Iaave been referred to, and by many others' which
"The case of' it is unnecessary to mention, seems to be conclu'
Roperv.Rad- sive upon the question which this court is called upon
cliffe, 9 od
167.exanined.to aecide, and would render any farther investigation
ofit useless, .were it not for the case of Roper v.
Radcliffe, which was 'Cited, and mainly relied upon,
'by the counsel for the state of Virginia.
The short statement of that case is as follows;
John Roper conveyed 'all his lands to trustees and
their heirs, in trust, to sell the same, and out of the
proceeds, and of the rents and profits till sale, to pay
-certain debts, and the overplus of the money to be
paid as he, the said Joho Roper, by his wvill or other-

BE

OF, THE UNITED STATES.'vise ihould appoint, and for want of such appoigtment,
for the benefit of the said John Roper, and his heirs.
By. his will reciting the said'deed, and the powe re-

1818.
C v.

served to him in the surplus of the said real estate, he Leslie.
.bequeathed several pecuniary legacies, and then gave
the residue of his real and personal est-te to 'William
Constsble and Thomas Radcliffe, and two :iers, aid
to their heirs. By a codicil to tlis will, he bequeathed
other pecuniary legacies; and the remainder,'whether
in lands or personal estatej he gave to the said W. C.
and T. R.
Upon a bill filed by W. C. and T. R. against the heir'
at law of John Roper, and .the other trui.es, praying
to have the - trust executed, and the residue of the
money arising from the sale -of the lands to be paid
over to them ; the heir at law opposed the execution
(of the trust, and claimed the land as a resulting-trust;
upon the ground: of the incapacity'of*Constable and.
Radcliffe to take, they being papists. The decree-of
the court of chancery, which was in favour of the pa2
Pists, was, upon appeal to the hoause of lords, reversed,
and the title of the heir at law' sustained; six judges'
against five, being in his favour.
Without stating at large the'opiniion upon which the
reversal took place, this aourt will proceed, Ist. To
examine th,- general principles laid down in thittopinion ; and then, 2d. The case itself, so far as it has b~en"
pressed upon us as an authority to rule the question before the cotirt.
In performing the first part of this undertaking,
It will not be necessary to' question any one of the
premises laid down in that opinion. They are,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

582
1818.
Craig
v.

Sof

1. That land devised to trustees, to sell for payment
debts and legacies, is to be deemed as money.
This is the general doctrine established by all the

cases referred to in .the preceding part of this opinion.
has a resulting trust in such
Law, devis-2. That the heir at law
after the debts and legavalue,
of
is
it
ed to trustees,land, so far as
to sell for payequity and
ment of debts cies are paid, and that he may come into
Leslie.

ald legacies, is
to be deemed restrain

s

i

the trustee from sellirg more than is neces-

legacies ; or he may offer to

Theeir atsary to pay the debt and
law has a re- pay them himself, and pray to hate a conveyance of
sultingtrustin-"
first case, and the
such lands, af-the part of the land not sold in the
ter the debts
in either case,

and lepgceswhole in the latter, which property will,
are Patd, antdbe land, and not money. This right to call for a conaycme into
eu'tya.tr_veyance is very correcty styled a privilege, and it
tee from sell-is one which a court of equity will never refuse,
ing mor;, than
tounless, there are strong reasons for refusing it. The
sufficient

mayother tor

is incontrovertible, that where the testator
a conveyance merely directs the real estate to be converted into
of the part of
will, so much
the land not money, for the purposes directed in his
sold in the first
not
arising from it, asitisarise
or' the money
"e, and the of the estate,
(whcther
will,
the
by
of
disposed
effectually
the
whol 'in
pay them him- which
sell; MW piray

latter, which
from
either caseinwill
property

some omission or defect in the will itself, or
belndandnot from ariy subse4uent accident, which prevents the
,"ny.
devise froin taking effect,) results to the heir at law,

as the old use not disposed of. Such was the case of
Crewe v. Bailey, (3 P. Wins. 20.) where the testator having two sons, A. and B. 'and three daughters,
devised his lands to be sold to pay his debts, &c. and
as to the moneys arising by the sale, after debts paid,
gave £200 to .A.the eldest son, at the age of 21, and
the residue to his four younger children. A. died be-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
fore the age of 21, in consequence of which, the bequest to him failed to take effect. The court decid- "Crdig
v.
as land to
ed that the £200 should bb considered
descend to the heir at law of the testator, because it Leslie.
was in effect, the same as if 4o much land as was of
the value of £200 was not directed to be sold, but
was sufferred to descend. The, case of Ackroyd v.
Smithson, (1 Jro Ch. C=. b03.) is one of the
same kind, and establishes the sanie priniciple. S6,"
likewise, a money provision under a nhrriage contract, to arise out of land, which did not take'effect r
on account of the death of the party for whose bene.
fit it was intended, before the time piescribed, resulted as money to the grantor, so as to pass under a
residuary clause in his will. (Hewitt v. Wright, 1
Bro. Ch. Cas. 86.)
Butiftheir
of the tem
But even in cases of resulting trusts, for the bene-- tnt
tator
intent
the
if
that
settled
iteto
is
it
to ha a pears
fit of, the heir at law,
of the testator appears to have been to itamp upon stamp- upon
sold,- thiethepods
the proceeds of the land described to be
reefed to be
quality of personalty, not only to subserve the par-sold, the qual
oy~or
• tK,not
, bht .to all intents, the
cnal
ty of pers
ticular purposes of the will,
othee particular
claim of the heir at law to a resulting trust is defeat- tm..pcose
ed, and the estate is considered to b; personal. This. willbut toaU6
the,
claim of th
was decided in the case of %Yeatesv. Compton, (2 P. intents.
law
at
theheir
that
says,
chancellor,
the
which
in
308.)
Wins.
to a resulting'is deintention of the will -was to give away all from the trot..
feated, and the
estate istoconri
heir, and to turn the land into personal estate, and de-ed
be:
that this was to be taken as it was at the testator'spersonal.
death, and ought not to be altered by any subsequent
accident, and decreed the heir to join in the sale
of the .land and the money arising therefrom* to be

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18L8.

U3;ig
V.
Leslie.

paid over as personal estate to the representatives of
legatee.
the annuitant, and to those of the residuary
In,he case of Fletcher v. Ashburner, before referred
to, the suit was brought by the heir at law of the
testator, against the per'sonal representatives and the
trustees claiming the estate upon the ground of a
resulting trust. But the court decreed the property,
as money, to the personal representatives of him to
whom the l eneficial interest in. the money was be.queathed, and the iaster of the rolls observes, that
the cases of Erinblyn v. Freeman, and Crewe v.
Bailey are 'those where real estate being diiected
to be sold, sonie part of the disposition has failed,
and the thing devised has not accrued to the repre
sentative, or devisee, by which -omething has re,.
sulted to the heir at law.
It is evident, therefore, from a view of the above
cases, that the title of the heir to a resulting trust can
never arise, except when something is left undisposed
of, either by some defect in the will, or by some subsequent lapse, -which prevents the devise from taking
effect ; and not even then, if it appears that- the intention of the. testator wa's to change the nature of
the estate from land to money, absolutely and entirely,. anal not -merely to serve the purposes of the
will. ButI the' ground upon which the title of the
heir rests is, that whatever is not disposed of remains to him, and partakes of the old use, as if it
had not been directed to be sold.
The third proposition laid down in the -case of Roper v. Radcliffe, is, that equity will extend the same
privilege to the residuary legatee which is allowed

OF THE UNITED STAT9S.

36

to the heir, to pay the debts and legacies, and call for 1818.
a conveyance of the real estate, 'or to restrain the,£r.ustees from selling 'mnore than is necessary to pay khe
Y.
debts and legacies.
Leslie.
This has, in effect, been admitted in the preceding £uity will
part of this opinion; because if the cestai que trUSt,extend
the
privilege
of the whole beneficial interest in the mo4ey to- arise same
to the regiduatrorm the sale of the land, may claim this privilege, Y late
which is allow

it follows, netessarily, that the residuary leg atee May,)Y
to ytheheibr
becaus6 he is, irk effect, the beneficial' owner ofand le acie,
fr.•and, call. for a
the whole, clhhrged with the zlebts and legacies, fromconveyance
of
hewil
to
the real estate,
which he will be:permitted to disharge it, by pay-or
to'restrain
ing the debts and legacies, or may claim so much of he trumstee
from

selling

the real estate as may not be necessary for that purn6r than N
necessary

pose,

to

pay' the debts

"
But the courf cannbt accede to the conclusion, nd gaies
which, in; Roper v. Radcliffe, is deduced from the es-- The conolue p ."
sion-which, in
tablishment of the above princples.
That canclu-R.p. Radsion is that in respect to-the residuar - legatee, such ifr"rVed.
3
7
cedfromthe
a (revise ;shall be 'deemed as land in equity, thoughabove princi
in
it is pies,
resp.ctthat
to the
in respect to the creditors and specfic legatees
eg
ffi lgaeesitisrespda
dengrxed as money. It, is admitted, with this qualifi, tee suc.ra.e
shall be
caion, that, if the residuary legatee thinks proper to considered
as
avail himself of the privilege of taking it as land, by land inequity,
a

,'

.though

Ip

in re

ilakitig an election in his life time, the property will speet to the
creditors and
len assume the character of land. ' But if he does stcijAcegateu
Aii deemed as
riot make this election, the property retains its cna-6ioney-deni
racter of person'alty to -every intent and purpose.-. ed.
The cises before citeld seem to the court to be conclusive upon this point; aid none were referred' to,"
or have come under the view of the court, which
'VOL. IIL
75
-"

86

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818.
%.0Y.

sanction the conclusion made in the unqualified terms
used in the case of Roper v. Radcliffe.
As to the idea that the charaeter of the estate is af-

Leslie.

fected by this right of election whether the right be
claimed or not, it appears to be as repugnant to ieason,
as we think it has, been shown to be, to principle and
authorities. Before any thing can be made of the proposition, it should be shown hat this right or privilege
af election is so indissolubly united with the devise,
s to constitute a part of it, and that it may be exerciseJ in all cases, and under all circumstances.This was, indeed contended for with great ingenuity
and abilities by thb co unsel for the state of Virginia,
hit it was not proved to the "satisfaction of the
court.
It certainly is not true, that equity will extend this
-privilege in all cases to the cestai que trust. It will be
nefused if. he be an infant. In the case of Seely v.
Jago, (1 P. W'ms. 389,) where money was devised to
be laid out inl and.ia fee, to be sittledJon!A. B. and C. and
their heirs, equally to be divided. On the death of A.,
his infanit heir, together with B. and C., filed their bill
claiming' to have the money, which was dqcreed
accordingly as to B. and C.; but the share of the infant
was ordered to be put out for: his benefit,. and the
reason assigned 'was, that he was incapable (f mking an election, and that suich election, if permitted,
would, in case of his death, be prejudicial* to his
heir.
it the case of Foone v. Blount, (Cbwp. 467.)
Lord Mansfield, who ia-.compelled to acknowledge the
tuth-prity of Roper v. Radcliffe in 'parallel cases,

Or THE UNITED STATES.

51

combats the reasoning of Chief Justice Parker upon 1818.
'
this doctrine of election, with irresistible force. He Craig.
v.
that thouh i avait,
to
answer
true
the
as
suggess,
riety of cases this right exists, yet it was inapplicable Leslie.
to the case of a person who was -disabled by law from
taking land, and that therefore a court of equity would,
in such a case, decree that he should take the property
as .money.
The case of Walker v. Denne, (P Yres.' Jun. 17Q.)
seems to apply with great force to t.iH3 part of our suliject. The testator directed money to be laid out in
'lands, tenements, and hereditaments, or on long terms,
with limitations applicable to real estate. The money
not having been laid out, the crown, on failure of .heirs,
claimed the money as land. It was decided thai the
crown had no equity against the next of kin to 'have
the money laid ouf in real estate in order to clain it by,
escheat. It was added, that the devisees) on becoming absolutely entitled, have the option given by the
will ; and a deed of appointment by one of the cestui
que trists, though afeme covert, was held a sufficient
indication of her intention that it should continue personal, against her- heir claiming it as ineffectually disposed of for want of her examination. 'This case is
peculiarly strong, from the circumstance, that the elcttion is embodied in the devise itself; but this was
not enough, because the crown had no equity to force
an election to be made for the purpose of producing an
escheat.
Equity would surely proceed contraryto its regular
course, and the pxinciples which universally govern
it to allow the right' of el&utioa 'where it i.

ICASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
sired, and can be lawfully made, and yet refuse to decree the money upon the application of the alien, upCraig
on no other reason, but because, by law, he is incaLUslik, pable to hold the land ; in short' to consider him in
the same situation as if he had made an election,
which wou.! have been refused ha.4 he asked for a
conveyance. The more just and correct , rule.
would seem to be, that where the cestui que trust is
incapable to take orto hold the land beneficially, the
right of election does not ,exist, and, consequenfly, that the property i:r to e considered as being
of that species into which it is directed t6 be conyerted.
Having made these observations upon the principles
laid down in the c .se of Roper v. Radcliffe, and upon
the argument urged at the bar insupport of them, very
few words will suffice to show that, as an authority,
it s inapplicable to this case.
"The csae of The incapacities of a papist under the English staRoner v. Rad
cliffe distin tute of 11 and 12 11m. III. c.4, and of an alien at
ghed fm .. on law, are extremely dissimilar. The former
1818,'
,.

isincapable to take by purchase, any lan/s, or profits
'out of lands ; and all estates, terms, and any other inp
t.erests orproflts whatsoever out of lands, to bV macfe,
suffered. or done, to, or for thd use of such persun,
or upon any trust for him, or to, or for the benefit, or
relief of any such person,,are declared by the statute to
he utterly void.
Thus, it appears, that he cannot even take. His
incapacity is not confined to- land, but to any profit,
interest, benefit, or relief,-iii or out of it. He is not
?X2ly disibled fromtakipo, haying tug Waefit of,any

OF THE UNITED STATES
1818.
such interest, but the will or deed itself, which attempts to' pass it, is void. In. Roper v. .,Radcliffe, it Cr ai
was strongly insisted, thai the money given to the
vpapist, which was to be the proceeds of the- land, was Leslie.
a orofit or interest out of the land. If this. be so,
(and' it is not irmterial in thiz case to affirm or
deny that position,) tien ihe will of John Roper in
relation to the bequest to the two papists ioas void
under the statute; upi if so, the iight of the heir at
law of the testator, to te resi.lue, as a-resulli:ig trust ,
was incontestible. * The cases above cited'have fully
established that principle. In that case, too, the-rents
and profits, till the sale, would have belonged to the
papists, if they were capable of taking, -hich
brought the case still more strongly within the statute ; and this was mniieh relied on, not only in reasoning upon the vords, but the policzf of the stitute.
Now, what is the situation of an alien? He can An -cn may
not only take an interest in- land, but a freehold inte-chnse, a ree
hold, or other
rest in 'he land itself, and miay hold it against all the iitaerestin land
and mavyoldit
world but the king, and • cven against him until office-aoinstall
the
found, and h- is not accountalble for .the rents and worid
hekingexcep
; and
'

even against
profits previously reveived.. In this case the will be--him until office
ing valid, and the alien0 capable of taking under it, found; and is
ano accounta
there can be no resulting trust to the heir, and theble for the
claim of the slate is founded solely upon a supposed ret s apro
rec n
equity, to have the land by escheat, as if the alien e-ed.
had, or could upon the principles of a court of
a Vide ante, p. 12. Jackson cx dem. State of Newv-York v.
Cjarke, note e.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

90
1818.
CraigI
r
Leslie.

the moequity have elected to take the land instead of
ney. The points of difference between the two case
time to noare ;o striking 'thatit would be a xVaste of
detail.
in
tice them
It may be further observed, that the case of Roper
to
v. Radcliffe has never, in England, been ppplied
submitbeen
has
aulthority
the case of aliens ; that its
its
ted to with reluctance, anl is strictly confined in
Lord
application to cases precisely parrall. to it.
of
Mansfield, in the case of Foone v. Blount, speaks
that
know,
we
and
;
it with marked disapprobation
had Lord Trevor been present, and declared the opin.
ion he had before entertained, the judges would have
been equally divided.
The case of the Attorney General and Lqrd Weymouth, (Ambler.2O.) was also pressed upon the court,
and
as strongly supporting that of Roper v. 'Radcliffe,
as bearing upon the present case.
The fist of these propositions might be admitted
although it is certain that the mortmain act, upon
in its
which that case was decided, is even stronger
and the
expression than the .tatute against Papists,
the
whether
says,
he
for,
chancellor so considers it;
the
just
is
it
land,
surplus be considered as money or
and en9ame thinr, the statute making void all charges.
charity.
cumbrances 6n land, for the benefit of a
the same as
respects,
all
in
But if this case were,
have been
which
Roper v. Radcliffe, the observations
It
to it.
made upon the latter would all apply
the
case,
may be remarked, however, that in this
the quesupon
opinion
chancellor avoids expressingany
sale of
the
from
e'ise
- tion, -whether the' money to
-

OF THE UNITED

STATES:

691

1818.
the land, was to betaken as personalty or land ; and
although he mentions the case of Roper, v. Radcliffe, Cameroa
v.
he adds, that he does not depend upon it, as it was imblRoberts.
as
considered
be
to
was
surplus
material whether the
land or rhoney under the mortmain" act.
Upbn the whqle, we are uaani:nluily of opinion,
that the legacy given to Thomi.s Craig, in the will of
Robert Ciaig, is to be co-isi.lere.l as a bequest of personal estate, which he is capable of t-ekirg for his own
benefit.
Certificate accordingly.

(CHANCERY.)

C.,mErtoN v. M'RoBERTS.
in equity
The circuit courts have no power to set aside their di~erees
,on motion, after the term at which tfiey are rendered.
in the cirWhere MIR. a citizen of Kentucky. brought a suit in eq'iity,
of Vircuitcourt of Kentucky, Oga net C. C..stated to be a ctizrr
; all
citizenship
of
deaignation
any
ginia, and E. J. & S. E.. without
pronoun.
was
decree
a
and
;
ansivred
-.nd
appeared
the defunda~fts
codfor the plaintilf; it wa h.ld, that ifaj.int intorestves ed in,CZ,

over the
C. and the other defindanto,'the court had no jurisdiction

substancause. But that if distinct interest ve-ted in C. C. s. that
affecting
tial justice,(mo far as he w concerned.)could be done without
might ba lesreis e d
the other defendants, the jurisdiction of the court
ed anto him alone.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district o(

Kentucky.

