CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT
have recdived instructions to
her course for Leith, when touch at Norway ; and for
sh-..vas captured by a Swedish
she might have
frigate, five German oiles'off other reasons
Dugan
any imwithout
thither,
gone
Y.
The
Norwivdy
of
coast
the
But
States.
barratry.
Unit
putation of
defendant produced-a Swedish' the court did not decide whesentence of condemnation for ther the plaintiff could have
breaking the blockade of Nor- recovereW without a count for
way. Hfeld, that this was conbarratry, nor whether, upon a
-clusive evidence of the breach - count for barratry,the sentence
of blockade, but that it was not for a breach of blockade would
sufficieht I evidence to fix th be conclusive. Everth et al. v.
master'with barratry: That
Hannam, 2 Marshall's Rop.
cannot be done, unless he act 72. S. C. 6 Taunt. 375. Im'criminally ; ind today that he proper treatment of the vessel
broke the blockade in disobe- ,by the master,will not constiinstructions of
dience to tlie
tute bn rratry, although it tend
his owners, from some private to the destruction of the vesinterest of his own, was too sel, unless it be sbown that he
strong an inference from the acted against his own judgevidence as it stood. The Iment.
Todd v. Richie, 1
4
ship -might have been bound Sjarkqn'3
N . P. e40.
fbr "Leith, and .yqt 'might
1818.

(doDMoN LAw.)

.Du'Aci

et al., Executors of

CLARK, v.

Tun UNITED

STATES.
T. T., treasurer of the
WhIhere a bill of exchange was endorsed to T.
and for acc unt of
capacity,
the
in
it
received
United States, Who
by the Secretary
the United States, and the bill had been purchased
fund, amd
sinking
the
of
of the Treasury (as one of the commissioners

of the United States, and
as agent of that board) with the money

OF THE UNITED STATFS.
1818.
was afterwards endorcedby T. T. T., treasurer of the United States,
"
to W. & S., and by them presented to the drawees for acceptance,
Dugan
and p oto-ted for non-acceptance and non-payment, and sent back
V.
by W. & S. to the secretary ofthe treasury; )ld, thatthe endorsement
States
Unit.
enabled
as
States
V'nited
to
tile
tn
interest
such'
passed
T.
T.
to T.
them to maintain an actoin on the bill against tile first endorser.
Quare,whether when a bill is endorsed to an agent, for the use of his
principal, an action on the bill can be maintained by the principl.
in his own name?
However this may be between private parties, the United States
ought to be permitted to sue in their own name, whenever it appears, not only on the face of'the instrument, but from all the evidence, that they alone are interested in the subject matter of the
controversy.
Held, tlat the United States- might 'recover in the present action,
without producing from IV. &S. a receipt or a re-endorsement of the
bill; that W. & S. were to be presumed to have acted as the agents or
bankers ofth United States; and that all the interest which W. &
S. ever had in the bill, was devested by the act of returning it to the
party froui whom it was received.
If a person who endorses a bill to another, whether for value, or for the
purpose of collection, comes again to the possession thereof, ho is to
bo regarded, unless the contrary appears in evidence, as a bonafide
holder and proprietor of such bill, and is entitled to recover thereon, notwithstanding there may be on it one or more endorsements
in full. subsequent to the endorsement to hini, without producing
'any receipt or endorsement, back to him from either of such endorseos, whose names he may strike from the bill or not as he thinks
proper.
ERRoR to the circuit court for the district of Maryland.
By the special verdict in this cause, it appeared, that
on the 22d of December, 1801, Aquila Brown at Bal-"
timore, drew a bill of exchange on Messrs. Vah Staphorst & Co. at Amsterdam, for 60,000 guilders, payable
at 60 days sight, to the order of James Clarke, the defendants' testator. James Clarke endorsed the bill to

174

CASES [N THE SUPREME COURT
Messrs. Brown & Hackman, who afterwards endorsed

it to Beale Ovings, who endorsed the same to Thomas T' Tucker, Esq. treasurer of the United States,
'T.
Uinit. States or-order, and cZelitered it to him as treasurer as aforesaid, who received it in that capacity, and on account
of the United States. It further appeared, that this
bill had been purchased with money belonging to the
United' Sates, and under the order, and by an agent
•of the then secretary of the treasury of the United
States, for the, purpose of remitting the same to Europe, for the government of the. United States, who,
in ordering the purchhse of this bill acted as one of
the commissioners of the sinking fund, and as-agent for
The bill was afterwards bndorsed to
that board.
Dugan

-

Messrs. Wilhem & Jan Willink & N. & J. & R. Van
Staphorst. by Thomas Tu4ker, treasurer of the United
States, antf appears by an endorsement thereofi to have
been registered by the prqper officer, atthe treasury of
the United States, on the 28th of December 1801, befor6 it was sent to Europe., The bill having been regularly presented for acceptance by the last endorsees
to the drawees, who prot.sted for non-acceptance. It
was afterwards protested for non-payment, and then returned by them to the secretary of the treasury' of the
United States, for and on their b~half, who directed this
action to be brought. Of these protests due notice was
given to the drawer of the bill.
On this state of facts, the circuit court rendered judgment for the United States. to reverse which, this Writ
of error was brought.

OF THE UNITED STATES,

170

1818.
Mr. Winder and Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the plaintiffs
in error, argued,, 1. ndrsethebil
That the findingadof the. jury that Dugan
Tucer
Tucker endorsec'the bill to Messrs. 'Wjilinks and. Van
v.
States
Staphorst, which endorsement was' filled up at the time Unit.
.
M&
judgmentFe
and
trial
the
at
remaine'd
so
and
by Tucker,
below, showed the legal title to.this bill out of, the United States', and defeated their right to maintain the a'c-"
tion. The transfer to the last endorsees being in full,
a recovery could not be had in the name of the United
States, without producing from the endorsees a-receipt
or re-endorsement of the bill; and the endorsement not
being in blank could rof be struck out at the trial, so
that the court and jury'were bound to believe that the
title was not in the United States, but in the person to
whom Tucker had endorsed the bill. If a bill be andorsed in blank, and the endorsee fills up the blank
endorsement,, making it payable to himself, the action
cannot be brought in the name of the endorser, which,
otherwise, it might.a Every endorsement -subsequent
to that, to the holder or plaintiff, must be struck out of
the bill, before or at'the trial, in order to render the evidence correspondent to the .declaration.b Value're-,
ceived is implied in every bill or endorsement, and a
transfer by endorsement or delivery, vests in the assignee a right of action on the bill against all the preceding.
parties to it. An endorser having paid a bill must,
when he sues the acceptor, drawer or preceding endorser, prove that it was returned to him, and he naid it.*
a Chillyon Billi, 14zs. American ed. of 1817.
b Chltly on Bills, 378. American ed. of 1817t endz 9. Cameron, 1 1d. Raym. 742.

176

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

The special verdict does not find that the endorsement
but that by the endorseto Willinks, &c. was as agents;
:
directed to be paid to
were
bill
the
of
contents
meit the
was afterwards return'Unit. States them. Thefinding that the bill
of
ed by them to the secretary of the treasury
the United
the United States, for and - on behalf of
nor can the
agents;
were
States, is not findingthat they
court infer it: and if they did, still the outstanding en.
endorsee.
46rsement shows the legal title in the last
posmere
the
that
court
the
by
It has been determined
had
who
endorsee,
an
session of a promissory note by
his
of
evidence
endorsed it to another, is not sufficient
reasa
right of action against his endorser, without
2. The
signment or receipt from thq last endorsee-a
as to
so
bill
a
of
United States cannot be the endorsees
name.
own
entitle them to bring an action on it in their
should be
It is' essential to a bill of exchange that it
States, as
-negotiable. The government of the United
receiving
6f
bill;
a
such, are incapable of endorsing
arnt giving notice of non-acceptance and non-payment.
of inIt is essential to the very nature of this species
to recompelled
be
should
struments that all the parties
may
they
spond according to the several liabilities
the
But
contract in the course of the negotiation.
United States cannot be sued, and, consequently,
endorcannot be made answerable as the drawers or
sers of a bill. The national legislature is, probably,
competent, to provide for the case, and to designate
to negosome public officer who shall be authorized
1818.
o
Dugan
V.

a Welch v. Lindo, 7 Cranch, 159.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1B 1 .
tiate bills for the United States. But until some statutory provision on the subject is made, the existence' of Dugan
v.
such an authority in any particular officer of the govStates
Unit.
supposing
even
But
3.
inferred.
be
eminent cannot
that any endorsement whatever can vest the legal title
to a bill of exchange in the United States, so as to rendler them capable of maintaining an action on it in their
own name, -the endorsement to Tucker under the circumstances of this case, did not vest such a title in them.
The treasurei of the United States has no authority,
ex offirio, ta draw, or endorse, or otherwise negotiate
bills. - The only oficers of the government who possess the power of drawing bills are the commissioners
of the Sinking Fund. To them it is expressly given
by law. But a power to draw or endorse bills as an
agent cannot be delegated to another, u6less the power
of substitution be expressly given.a" Besides, the agent
constituted by the commissioners was the secretary of
the treasury, who employed, not Tucker, but another
person, to purchase the bill. Where a bill is payable
to A. for the use of B., the latter has only an equitable,
riot a legal, interest. The right of assignment is in the
former only.b Here "the ation ought to have been
brought in tihe name of the trustee, and not of the cestui
que tust.
The Attorney General, contra, contended, that the
position on the' other side as to .agency in the ndgotiation of bills was not law. An action could not be
a Chittyj on Bills, 39. American ed. of 1817.
b Id. 139. Prie"v. Stephens, 3 Mass. Rep..225,
24
-VOL. III.

178

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818-.

n)aintained in the name of Tucker for want of interest
Dugan in him. According to the doctrine on the other side,
v.
he alone.is suable, as well as empowered to sue. But all
Unit. Statesthe authorities show thfat an agent contracting on the
behalf of government is not personally liable:a and the
other alternative of the proposition, that he is personally capable of maintaining an action, cannot be supported. A person may bec'ome a party to a bill, not only
by his own immediate act, but by procuration; by the
act of his attorney or agent: and all persons may be
agents for this purpose, whether capable of contracting
on,their own account, so as to bind themselves, or "not.b
An agent of the governnent who draws of endorses
a bill will not be personally bound, even 'if he draws
or endorses in his own name, without stating that
he acts as agent.c But here Tucker subscribed the
style of his office. It is sufficien t to declare on a bill
of exchange according to the legal intendment and effeet, and an averment that the endorsement was to the
party interested is satisfied by showing an endorsement
to his agent.d The United States, though not natural
persons engaged in commerce, may be parties to a bill
of exchange. The United States are a body politic and
corporate; and it has long sinceceased to be necessa.
a Macbeth v. Haldimand, 1 T. R. 172. Unwin v. Wolseley, Id. 674.
Myrtle v. Beaver, 1 East, 135. Rice v. Chute, Id. 579. Hodgson v.
Dexter, 1 Cranch, 363. Jones v. Le Tombe; 3 Dall. 384. Brown v.
Austin, 1 M7fass.
Rep. 203. - Sheffield v. Watson, 3 Caines' Rep. 69.
Freemen v. Otis, 9 .rrass. Rep. 272.
b Chilly on Bills, 34. Am. ed. of 1817.
c Id. 40. :
d Id. 365. 367. App. 528. 539. -

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ry in a declaration on a bill' of exchange to statd the
1818:
custom of merchants, and that the parties to it were Dugan
persons within the customs. Consequently, they have
V.
the same right to sue on a bill as any other persons; Unit. States
and that they are not re'ciprocally liable to be sued, is
an attribute of sovereignty. I ndividuals contracting
with them rely on their dignity and justice. But the
power of suing on their part is essential to the collection of the public revinue,'to the support of government,
and to the payment of the public debts.
Mr. Justice LIVINGSTON delivered the opinion of the
court, and after stating the facts,. proc'eeded as fol- Fb. 19th.
lows:
The first question which will be disposed of, although not the first in the orderof argument, will be,
whether the endorsement of this bill to Mr. Tucker,under the peculiar circumstances attending the transaction did not'pass such an interest to the United States,
as to enable them to sue in'their own name.' In deciding this -point, it will be taken for granted, that no
doubt can arise on the special verdict as to the party
really interested in this bill. It was purchased with
the money of the United States. It was endorsed, to
their treasurer; it was registered at their treasury; it 'was
forwarded by their secretary of the treasury, to'whom
it was returned, after it' had been dishonoured,for and
on behalf, as the jury expressly find, of the United
States. Indeed, without .d.enying the'bill to be the
property of the United States it is supposed that the ac-

CASES 1N THE SUPREME COURT.

ISO.

tion should have been in the name of Mr. Tucker, their
and not in the name of the cestuy que trust.
Dugan
a party may in
If it be admitted, as it must be, that
V.
intendment
legal
the
to
according
Unit. States. some cases declare
a case
of an instrument, it is not easy to* conceive
in the
-where such an intendment can be stronger, than
before
case before the court. but it is supposed that
that
appear
must
it
any such intendment cart be made,
conduct
his
that
Mr. Tucker actel under some law, and
throughout comported with his duties as therein prescrithat he
bed. It is sufficient for the plesent purpose
and in
character,
appears to have acted in his official
'The
conjunction with other officers of the treasury.
court is not bound to presume that he acted otherwise
been
than according'to law, or those rules which had
government
of
departments
established hy the proper
Qucere, whe-, for the transaction- of business of this nature. If it
'when a bill is endorsed to the
ther when abe generally true, that
an action
to anaent[foragent, of another for thQ use of his'principal,
(oIn
the use, of Iscannot be maintained, in the name of such principal
principal, an
should
government
action thereon which point no opinion is given,) 'the
can be mainand the U. States be pertaied by the form an exception to such rule,
whenever it appears, not
name,
ainarhis mitted to sue'in their own
be- only on the face of the instrument, but from all the evibe asthis
However
may
mattween private dence, that they alone were interested in the subject
parties, the Uis a fitness that the public
nited States. ter of the controversy. There
may sue in
in which
by its own officers should conduct all actions
their wn
the in
and
name;
own
its
in
and
interested,
is
when-it
iname
anth
ever it appears
exposed
be
may
that they areconveniences to which individuals
alone interestagainst
tho sub- in this way, if any, are light, when weighed
ed inmatter.V
1818.

'treasurer,

jeot

OF THE UNITED- STATES. l8eM
those which wbuld result from its being always
forcel to' bring. an action in the name of an agent.. D
X
Not only the death -orbankruptcy of an agent nuly creStates
againstUnit.
ate ,difficulties, but set-offs lbay be' interposea
will
court
the individual who is plaintiff, unless the
;.and if
States
United
the
of
take notice of the interest
of
courts
which
they can do this to prevent a seioff,
be
to
action
an
law have done, why not at once Fermit
An intimaStates?
United
the
of
instituted in the name
had no
States
United
the
tion was thrown out that
for
congress
an act of
right to sue in any case, without
no
the purpose. On this ,point the court entertains
doubt. IA all cases of contract with the United Stotes,.
of
they must have a right to enforce the performance
such' contract, or to recover damages for their violation,
different mode
by actions in th'eir own name, unless a
pretended to
of suit be prescribed by law , which is not
to them
deny
to
strange
be the case here. It would-be
Unithe
of
a right which is secured to every citizen
ted States.
if the
It is next said hy'the plaintiff in error, that
United
the
of
endorsement to Mr. Tucker, as treasurer
as to enaStates, passed such an interest to the latter,
title was
ble ihem to sue in their own name, yet such
the
devested by Mr. Tucker's endorsing the bill- to
endorsewhich
Messrs. Willinks and Van Staphorst,
is still on
ment appeared on the bill at the "trial, and
it.
to
The argument on this point is, that the transfer
be
cann6t
the last endorsees being in full, a recovery
produchad in the name of the United States, *ithout
ing from them a receipt, or a re-indorsemelit of the bill,

182,

CASES; IN THE 9UPREME COURT.

1618.

and that thi's endorsment not being in blank could not

I Iobliterated at the trial, so that the cout and jury
Dugana be
T.
were bound to believe, that the title to this bill was
Unit. States not in the United States but irk the gentleman to whom
Mr. Tuccer had endorsed it.
Thb mere returning of this bill, with the protest for
non-acceptance and non-payment by the Messrs. Willinks and Van Staphorst to the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, for their accounti is presumptive evidence of the former having acted only as agents
or as bankers of the United States. When that is not
the case, it is not usual to send a bill back to the last
endorser, but to some third person, who may give notice of its being dishonoured and apply for paiyment to
such endorser, as well as to every other party to the
bill. In the case of an agency, then so -fully established, it would be vain to expect either a receipt or a
re-endorsement of the bilL The first could not be giv
en consistent with the truth of the fact, and the latter
might well be refused by a cautious person who had
no interest whatever in the, transaction. Iii such case,
therefore, a court may well say that all the title which
the last endorsees ever had in the -bill, which was a
mere right to collect it for the United States, was deTheendorsrvested'bi the single act.of returning it to the party of
'*"'

of
a bill, again
who whom
comes

into the

it was received.' But if this agency in 'the
pos-Messrs. XNillinks and Vdn Stophorst were not estab-

session t reof.""

"

is be regard lished, the opinion of the court* would be the same.
eas the ba After an examination of the cases on this subject,
fide holderan
roretor, unee contrary appears, and may recover thereon, notwithstanding there may be one or
more endorsements in full, subsequent to the endorsement to him, withut producing any
receipt or endorsement back to him, from either of such endorsees, and without stiiking.
theirrames from the bill.

OF THE UNIFED STATES.
1818
(which cannot, all of them, be reconciled,) the court
bill of Olivera
a
endorses
who
person
any
if
that
is of opinion,
Y.
exchange to another, whethet for value, or for the purpose of collection, shall come to the possession thereof Union Ins.
again, he shall be regarded, unless the contrryp- Company.
pear in evidence; as the bonafide holder and proprietor
of such bill, and'shall be entitled to recover, 'ndtwithstanding there may be on it onc'or. more endorsements
in full, subsequent to the one to him, without producing any receipt or enddrsement back froth either of
such endorsees, whose names he may strike from the
bill, or not, as he may think proper.
Judgment affirmed.,

(COMMON

LAW.)

OLIVERA V. THE UNION INSURANCE COMPANI 4
A vessel within a port, blockaded after the commencement of her voyago, and prevented fron proceeding on it, sustains a loss by a peril
within that clause of the policy insuring against th6 "arrests, restraints
1
and detainments of'kings, ' &c. for which the insurers are liable
and if the vcessel so prevented bo neutral, having on board a neutral
cargo, laden before the institution of the blockade, the restraint is
unlawful.
A blockade does not, according to modern usage, extend to a neutral
vessel found in port, nor prevent her coming out. with the carga
which was oti board when the blockade was inetituted.
A technical total loss must continue to the timq of abandonment

