CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
isle.

The Aolus.
(II- rANcE COURT.)
The tOLt's-1ocod; Claimant.
A question of fact under the non.importation law;. Dcfenc6,
the plea of distress, repelled. Condemnation.

APPEAL from
Massaundsetts.

aEt

Up On

the circuit court for the district of

This vesgel and cargo were libelled in the district
Court for the District of Maine, as forfeited to the United States, forlading on board at Liverpool, in Great
Britain, certain goods which were of the growth, produce, and manufacture of Great Britain, with intent ta
import the same into the Unite I States, and with the
knowledge of the master, and also for an actual importatioit of the same into the United States. The seizure
was made at Bass Harbour, in the district of Frenchman's Bay, by Meletih Jordan, collector of that district.
A petition was interposed by Joseph T.*Wood. of
Wiscasset, who styled himself agent of Peter Mulus
land. The crime of murder, oia court m-artial. Act. ofC103 f
when committed by any offi- for the better government o
cer, seaman, or mar'ie, be- the nivy, cl. 187 (:33,) sect.
longing to any public ship or 1, art. 21. But the case at bar
vessel of the U iit6d Stateg, was not cognizable by a navy
without thc trnrtorialjurisdc- courtmartial, being commitgion of the sisme, tiay be aun-teol within the territorial ju.

'htdwithdeath bythesenteice

risdictioa of the United Statew

OF THE UNITED STATlS.

S

and Israel Rosnel, both of Bjornburgh, in 'Finland
in
1818.
"Russia and also of Frantz Scholtz, of Archangel,
in The
Russia; merchants, and subjects of the Einperor of.T'
Russia. The petition stated that Molus, Rosnel,
and
Scholtz were owners of the brig and cargo ; that she
saile&from Liverpool in the beginning of December,
1813, with a cargo bound to"the Havanra, -with
liber.ty and instructions to touch a" some port in N6rth
America, to ascertain' whether, according to existing
laws, they could be admitted to. an entry, ahid if noti
to receive' fach orders as the agent of the ' owners'
might give. That-after a long passage of 76 days)
and experiencing severe weather and the vessel
being in a leaky conditon, and the provisions growing
short, she mvas compelled to make Bass-Harbour. . That
there 'wa&.some expectation at Liverpool, when
the
/Eolus sailed, that a treaty of ldace between 'the United States and Great Britain hkd been concluded. orwas
in zreat forwardness. . Thi pti1on pray*ed that thevessel and, cargo might be restored to Mr. Wobd-0on
his giving bail for the appraised value,. This claim
was Lied the 14th of February, 1814. A-t the' May
term following, Molus &Rosnell claim the brig as their
property, and Scholtz claims the-cargo as belonging
to
himself.
In February term, 1815, a rule was made on claimants to proatice the log-book at the trial, and
an
original letter to J' T. Wood, mentioned in the depositlion of the supercargo.
Montera, mate of the brig, swore that she sailed direct from Liverpool to the United States. The captainVQL. IL,
51

394

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818., on the passage told-him that the vessel was bound to,
7' the-United States. The captain and supercargo said
Tile fEolUS. itwas their intention to have gone to Wiscasset, or
Portland, where. they were to discharge, b ut" owing to
the bad'state of their rigging, and the wind being ahead,
they put into, Mount Desert, where they were detained
by the custom-house officer. He also states; that it
vas agreed, in Liverpool, with all the sailors, himself
'and the cook excepted, that they should come to the
United States, and return froia thence t. ';-erpool.
About thwe months after, the mate was examinedagain*
when he told a story so. different from the relation
which is.found'in his first deposition, that but little
credit is due to himas a witness for either party.
Lingman, oneof the mariners of the ,XEolus, swore,
that he was shipped on board that vessel ir-October
last, she then lying.in Liverpool, on a voyage' to some
iort in America, and from thence .back to -,ome port in
Europe.
Daniel Molus, master of the Eolus, testified, tnat
io October, 1813, he camne to Liverpool, from Bjornburg in the Brig lEolus. One Lour ande, -who was master of thebrig, having a poWer to charter her as he
rcight think proper, did charter her to Frantz Scholtz, of
Archangel, by his agent, David Morgan, on a voyage
-tp the. Havanna, and a- 'port,in North or South
America. He was ordered by Morgan, the, agent of
S.choltz, to prodeed with the brig to the-Havanna,
and call,0ff such ports as the supercargo should direct.
Qn the 4th, of. December, 1813, the brig left. Li-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
verpool. Two ,days after, he was ordered 'by the supercargo to proceed off the port of Wiscasset, and
land some passengers, when he would receive further
orders from the supercargo, who expected to find
further orders there. On their passage, the 'brig had
thirteen of her chains broken, some of them in the
.eye round the bolt, and therefore could -not be repaired until some of the cargo was dischargea. Five of
her* shrouds were carried away, the bolts in the heel
of her bowsprit were broken, and the bowsprit -came
some in upon deck. The stern boat was,. by a sea,
stove in pieces at the stern and lost, with several light
sails which had been thown into her. The spritsail
yard was lost ; her waist-rails and boards' were
wholly carried away by the sea. The -binnacle was
severaltimes capsized, and the compasses very much
injured. One of the passengers was lost overboard.
The brig was short of water; and at the time of her
arrival'on the American coast, the crew was in very
great distress, being on a short allowance of water,
-which was very thick and bad, and not fit to be used
until it was boiled, to make it -thin. There was rio
rigging to repair the vessel any longer. On the 17th
of February, 1814, a council of the whole ship'u
crew and passengers was held, and all were of opinion it was very dangerous' keeping longer at sea;
-and were for getting into the first port which could
be'made. The supercargo reluctantly-consented. If
he had not, the brig miust have gone in, as her cni.
tion would. have justified the act, In the afternoontof the 18th of Febrnary, 1814, the -Zolus anchored

I81S.

S96

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

in Bass-Harbour, after a passage of 75 days) in which
The vessel
. T-vi.
Bolus every hardship had been, experienced.
Th~e
spirit of
and
strength
-was a complete wreck, and the
the crew nearly exhausted. She wap immediately
seized by the custom-house offiter, and the papers all
delivered up. Shortly after, the supercargo received
-adyice from his agent, 'who'soon 'came on board himself.
This witness speaks of a survey ot three ship-masters,
aftd of their opinion; but as no such survey is found
in the proceedings,- it is presumed that none was.made;
'or, if made, reduced to writing, He further states,
that the brig had been repaired: while at Bass-Harbour,
.at an expense of near 3,000 dollars. The cargo was
-the'sole property of Mr. Scholtz, of Archangel) and
was put on board by his agent, David Morgan, of Lon'don. who employed Richards, Ogden, & Selden, as
'brokers for that purpose.
Frederic Williams testifies that he was supercargo;
that the brig was Russian-expected in England that
the non-importation law would soon, be repealed.
His oirders *ere to proceed to Havania, and to call
.off Wiscasset, where he would -receive orders fv
Joseph Wood, agent of Mr. Scholtz, and if 'restric
tions were removed, to eAter with the brig; if other'wise, to lrQceed tp th 'Havanna; had much tempestuousweather, carried away most of their chains, and
,-many of the shrouds. On the, arrival of the brig-at
Bass-Harbour, he wrote to 'Wood that the brig had
'been seizeA, and consulting him" what' had best be
'done. He gave up his papers to the deputy-marshall,-4fid took a receipt for them. Wood wrote to
.him, and also ame down to the brig himself and in1818.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
formed him that -the vessel had been seized for an alleged. violation of the non-impartatioir law; He reMrgan, the
ceived his instructions as supercargo from
agent of Scholtz, in London%and they were verbal instructions oply. He did not recollect that he had ever
received any letter, either frqm Morgan or Scholtz,
concerning this voyage. He is .a native of Massachu
setts, but had not resided- in. the United States for
about four years previous to the commencement of this
voyage. Since the *arrival of the XEolus, he has resided nearly two years in New-York. All the papers he
had were repeipts from the cartmen in Liverpool, *and
they were bundled together in the cabin, from which
place he took them and delivered them to Wood, who,
he presumes, has them.
It appears by the testimony of Robert Kelly, that
Wood informed hini,' in the beginning of February,
1814, that 'he expected a brig from the West Indies,
and a Russian brig to call off the mouth of Sheepscot' river'for orders, and to know whether they can enter.
He desires Kelly, by letters Which are produced, to
keep a good look out for.these vessels, to.direct the
one from the West Indies to proceed to Newport, and
to inform the c:zptain or supercargo of the Russian brig,
that the laws will not admit of his entering, unless he
is in want of something, in which case he may put into
the mouthof the river. Kelly cruized off the mouth
of the river for abput four weeks, when he heard from
Wood, that the Russian: vessel had put ino'Mount Desert, and was seized.
Thomas Rice relates a conversation which he overkeardt. betwieen Wood and a Mr. Pepper, in which,

IP!3.

98

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818. the former offered the latter a handsome present tO
1The..olus. Swear that he had been offered money by Haddock and Jordon, to give testimony against the brig,
and in which Wood also stated that he had offered
the mate money, to contradict the testimony he had
given for Jordan.
John Bridges swears, that, being in Liverpool, in
November, 1813, with six other Americans, they were
applied to by Mr. Richards, of the house of Ogden,
Richards, & Selden, who offered to find them clothes,
to pay their board while at Liverpool, and to find them
a passage to America. He accordingly supplied them
with clothes, paid their board eight weeks, and then
put them on board the Russian brig _2Edlug, in which
they sailed for Portland.
Samuel Haddock, jun. an inspector of the customs,
went on board of the brig when she came into BassHarbour, and demanded her papers of the supercargo,
which he refused to give up, as he was determined to
pr6ceed further to the westward. He understood from
the mate, that the supercargo had taken the bills of the
argo from him, and burnt them. He thinks the brig
might have proceeded on her voyage to the Havanna, when she came into Bass-Harbour, with such reof
pairs as might have been made on board. None
the officers complained or intimated to him, that the
did
brig had come into Bass-Harbour in distress, nor
they
until
they pretend that the cargo was damaged,
began to break bulk.
By another witness, it appears that, after the seizure,
the master of the lEolus, in -company with the mate,
-Ha-purchased of him a chart of the Amelia islands,

OF THE UNITED STATE&
Vfannah, and the coast adjacent, observing that he 1818.
had no idea of going such a voyage when' he-left TheEolus
England, or he should have provided himself with.
one.
Abraham Richardson was put on bbard the btig as art
inspector of the customs, when she was seized, and
continued! on board till the cargo wag discharged, which'
was about 25 aays. He overheard' a conversation between Wood and the supercargo in the stateroom of
the latter, in which Wood "expressed a wish that the
brig had got to Wiscasset, as he Had' told the collector
at that place that the brig was coming, and'that he had
offered him 10,000 if hewould let her enter. He observed that the collector did not tell him whether he
would, but he believed that if the vessel had put in
there they would have got her off very easy. The supercargo observed to Wood, that if it was known that
he, Wood, was concerned in the voyage it would condemn vessel and cargo. Wood' replied, "You must be
very careful not to drop 6, word" about it. We must
make it out Russian property, if we can."- The supercargo then remarked, that.if the collector would' not
clear out the brig for Wiscasset, they must make her
out as bad'as possible, so that she could not be movhd,"
and then bond the cargo; upon which Wood observed,.
that if it was condemned they should then make a good
voyage, as the bonds would -not be much more than
thd double duties. This witness heard no complaints
on board of any digtress, and believes the ]Eoulus miglt
have proceeded to the West Indies.

CASES IN.THE SUPREME COURT

400

The papers on -board represented the vessel and
On this testimony the
cargo as Ruisian pro'erty.
o~p
Zolus.
Lh
to the United
forfeted
as
condemnedwas
propetty
appealed to
claimants
the
States, from which sentence
this coqrt.

1818.

Feb .IA.

Mr. D. B. Ogen, and Mr. Wheaton, for the appellants and claimafbts, argued upon the facts, that the
cargo was n6t put on board with intent to import the
same into the United States, hut that the, primary
destination was to the Havanna, with orders to call
off the coast ofthis country, and to enter, in case the
nonI-importation laws should be repealed. But even
if the fact were ever so well established)'that the cargo was originally put on board with intent to import
it into the United States, congress could not, consistently wit]V the prinQip'es of universal law, forfeit the
property offoreigners for an act done by them, in a foreign port. The putting on board the prohibited commooities with intention to inport, is made a distinct, substantive offence, by the 5th section of the
act of the 1st 9f March, 1809,' ch. 195. This offence
was con summated within a foreign territory. If. the
vessel had been captured on the high seas,. before her
arrival in the United States, she would have heen taken "in deicto, according to any construction by
which this section can be applied to foreigners. The
legislature might, indeed, intend to confiscate the
property ofour own citizens) for acts done by them in
foreign countries, because their allegiance travels
-withthem wherever they go. Nitt the operation of
a statute is generally limited to the territory, or the

401

OF THE UNITED STATES

1818.
sabjects of the couhfry_,where it is made.a Thissed.
tion of the act mna stand consistently with this coi-'h~l
3tructiori 1 btt it will be cq~nfined in- its operation to
the conduct of our own citizens. The subsequent
coming Into the waters of the United States -was occasioned by a vis major, and did not constitute an irn.
portation in law. To cnstifdtte such an importation,
tlreie must be a voluntary arrival within a port. An
involuntary arrival is not ar importation f'nor 'an arrival within the 'jurisdictioiial limits uierely:, there
mustbe i voluntary arrival wiin some'port; or collection district, with intent to unlade.b
The A'tlormey-Ge eral and Mr.. Preble, contra,. ar-

gued upon the-facts that the primary destination was
to the United States, and that the disrs'et up as a
plea to justify the fact of importation, was fictitious,
or created by the act of the parties themselves.
'Mr. Justice LivrqasToN delivered. the opinion of
the court,' and after stating the ease, pioceeded is
follows I
It is not necessaty or important, on this occasion,.
inquire into the national character of the Eo~us, or to
ascertain in whom the praprietify' interest of the chlr.go iesided, at the time of seizure; becausq, whether

aCau'ereou, DisC. ISO. ยง F4-22.
6 Reeve' Law of Shipping, '03-T07. The Eleanor, t r.
toards, 161, The Paishry, Id. App. 117. The Mar, I Galliv
206. The United States v. Arnold, Id. 358. S. C. 9 Cranch'
204. The Blaircau,'4 Cranch, 355. note.. Thf Fany,. 9 '
CrancA, "181.
Vo., III.

-b

-7t

0CASED'

IN THE'SUPREME COURT

they are both equalyr
-riean,
Russian, "iritish, or Am
liable to forfeiture, if the offence stated in the libel
Tba, Eolw"has been committed. The cargo, being avowedly
1818.

produce, or manufacture of Great
of the growthm,
Britai'nit is conceded that a forfeiture must follow 7
the fact of&a voluntary importation into the United
ik.
Slates be made out. Yet, in deciding this question,
it is 4apossible to discard entirely from view some of.
the ciicumstances which preceded, and took place
after the arrival of this -essel at Bass-Har 1bourrwhich,
-although not immediately connected with any calamity which may have brought her there, are not at
all calculated to excite much sympathy or to call for
any e'xtraordinary exertion of credulit-, while listenihg to the tale of distress, on which every hope of restitution is now rested.
Mr. Scholtz, a Russian merchant'at Archargel, in
time of war between.this country and Great Britain,
and during the existence of our non-importation act,
loads at that place no less than five brigs with the
proditits of Russia, which he commits to the ,care of
Mr. Morgan, a merchant at Liverpool, with instructions; as is said, to invest the proceeds of those cargoes in such British manufactures as he might judge
suitable for sale inthe Havanna. Mr. Morgan, who
at or about the time of loading these vessels, was at
Archangel, proceeds to Liverpool, disposes of the
cargoes there, charters the Russian brig-Eolus, and
d~spatches her, for the Havanna, to the addiess of'
certaifn merchants there, who are informed by a letter
from him of the origin of thig adventure, and that he
hai sent to them a cargo,, in conformity with the or-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ders of his principal, which he begs them to sell at
1818.
good, or even saving prices, and after investing the T
proceeds in certain produce, to load the _Eolus and send
her to Mr. Scholtz, at Archangel. i'he instructions of
Mr. Scholtz, in an affair of so much magnitude, no
where appear in the proceedings ; but if they were, in
truth, of the kind stated by Mr. Morgan himself,' in his
letter, which has just been referred to, we shall find
there was a total departure from them ; for not only
was the cargo of the 'Eolus the most unsuitable which
could~have been selected f(,r a warm climate; but the
Havanna, to which alonE, by his own account, he was
to send the A"olus, was to be her port of destinati6n only in case she could not enter a port of the United
States. When we find so great a departure fr'om instructions as would inevitable. fix upon the agent, a
responsibility to'the whole extent of the property pommitted to his charge, we may-well be permitted to doubt
of their existence altogether, and to suspect that Mr.
Morgan is acting in the character of a lprincipal, and
not, as he would have us believe, in that of a humble subordinate agent. This suspicion is not diminished,
when we find, that although th'is suit has been pending
between two and three years,_Mr. Scholtz has interfered with it neither in pei son, nor has he thought it worth
his while to appoint any agent for that purpose.
After the purchase of a cargo principally- calculated
for a northen market, and worth not less than 104,3f1'
dollars 37 cents, it is cmmitted to a upercargo, to
whom no other than verbal instructions are given. โข This gentleman styles himself a commissioned

404
1813.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
officer ih the imperial navy of Rusia; and on tic
rrival in the United States can speak nothing but bro-a
ken English. He. proves, hawever, to be a neturaltorn citizen'of Massachusetts, who had been ubsent
ofrom his country not more than four -years, and who,
therefore,. as may w61l be supposed, was not long
in recovering his vernacular tongue, which we soon
'find him speaking with as much facility as if he had
never been absent from his native state. Mr. WilRams, for that is the name of the supercargo, is
'directed by Mr. Morgan to call off Wiscasset, where
he would receive orders from. Mr. Wood, who, it
Aoems, although it does not appear how, was fully ap.
prised of the destinatioft of this vessel, and of thetime when she w'ould probably be' in his neighbour'hood. Whence he derived this knowledge, or when,
he has not deigned to inform the court, and 2lthough
'claiming'sb valuable a property for the owners-of ves-'selandcargo, he has shown no authority whatever
from either of them for interfering in thiR way; and
when, after a Iapse of more than two years and half from the .first institutioi of proceedings in the
Zistrict court, interrogatories are addressed to him,
eot the purpose of discovering who were' the real
sowyers of this property, and wh'ether they had appoin-ted him, and whei, as their- attoriiey, and some
other, matters which he alone could hale rescued
romth6 mystery i- .- hich they are now involved,
-f
he produces no'authorLy'whatever, and contents him:self with informing the commissioners, that being
gent of the lalman.ts he thinks, it improper# at that

OF THE UNITED STATES.
tame to answer any interrogatories, and ,shall,therefore , IBIS;
decline doing so.
"The 4Eohua
The .Xolusleaves Liierpool without'being furnished
with a chart of' the Havanna, or the coast -ldjacent,
and two days after -her departure the master is ordered
by the supercargo to proceed of !he port of Wiscagset, which was ;ccordingly done, and all idea of-going
to the Havanna,'if any were ever entertained, appears,.
'from that moment, to be abandoned; and'she is,66-.
dingly found, after a boisterous and long winter's pa'$r
sage,, in Iahigh latitude off the American coast., Now,
if there be nothingcriminal in A vessel coming on our
,coast, with a bonafide intention of ascertaining!wbeth,
er under existing laws, she would be permittod to.a~
ientry; yet, when a vessel is found in this situ tion, in
a boisterous season ofthe year, and so very, much,eu
of the way of the. p!ace 'towhich it was pretended sho
was destined, if our -ports were shut, and then yel~de
on the plea of distress for*the coming'in, a court will
require the most satisfactory proof of the necessity
which is urged ii her defence.
To make out this necessity, the principa , if not thg.
only witness produced,'are the master and sqpercargo
Oat of fifteen persons, these t'o are selected, and 'relied on to establish this all-important fact. No sor-ey
is had of the 'vessel or cargo eifher'befvre or after it:
was discharged. To these two.witnesses, if they st.ated
a sufficient distress, which is not conceded, very ser-t
aus objections lie. The masler isso ucblimplieated"
in 411 the transactions oftliis nature, that it must Al-,wAJs be more or less hazardous for a claimant tri-_-

CASES IN THE SUPRFEME COURT
1818.

to his testimony, -when other and less exceptionable
witnessesare at hand. Not onily some of the seamen
on board might have -been examined; but why not call
on persons residing at the place where the vessel discharged, to etamine her, and .to give their testimony.
Such'persons were at hand, for the master speaks of
three ship masters who surveyed her, and gave their
opinion. Asno survey i-produced and neither of these
ship masters is 4'witness, the court can take no notice
of any opinion they may have entertained or have given to the master of the Eolus. The testimony of the
made out an adequate
supercargo on this subject, if itcause for coming in, would have beep entitled to more
credit ifhe had behaved throughout this transactifn
in a manner more consistent than he appears to
But independent of this conduct,
have done.,
there are' parts of his, testimony which it is, very
difficult-to believe, and which throw a shade over the
whole. He swears that his instructions for Morgan
were not in writing, and that he had never received either from him or Scholtz, any letter concerning his voyage. It is incredible that any man Ahould be entrnsted
with so large a property, without'other than verbal in:'structions; ( r, at any rate, it is so entirely out of tho
xcourse of business, that the court cannot' be
comm64
blamed for' disbelieving it. But there, are other cir
cumstances which detract much from.th--i,*exjit of these
two witnesses. There is every reaslon tQ be!ieve from
other .evidence in the cauise, that. when the brig
came into' Bass-Harbour, neither of them thought
*of justifying their conduct on ,the ground of necessity.

.OP THE UNITED STATES.
This suggestion was made to them by Mr. Wood, and
1818.
not until they had been there a week or longer. This The Xuus.
fact is proved in a way to'admit of but little doubt of
its accuracy; not only by the profound silence which
was observed on this sabject by the master and othersj
for some time after the arrival of the brig, but by posttive testimony, which establishes that the" allegation
of distress was a matter of conceit between the siipercargo of Mr. Wood. It also appears by other witnesses in the cause, that the Eolus, rotwithsta.nding the
injuries which she had received, might have propeeded
to- the West-Indies without any other repairs.than such
as might have been put-qn her at sea. Upon, the whole,
the court is of opihion that the. coming in. of the .iotus
was voluntary, and not produced by any distress whick
could justify the 'neasur1 apd thit ttieredpon ,tii
sentenceof the circuit 'court.,inust le affirmed witk
costs.,
Mr. Justice J&H.NSoN, dissent64.', This- 'valuable
vessel, with a cargo worth 120,000 dollars, is chaiiedasRussian property. She was libelle.d as forfeited
under theprovision. of the non importation uct, and
all cjuesti'ons respecting proprjvtar" interest I consider
irrelevant to the case. The excuse for putting into
the pbot of Bass-Harbour was distress, 'and, as in the
case of the New-Yorka the minority c'f the 'court
are of opinion, that she ought, to have ifeen permited
to store her cargo, repair, re-sbip it, and depart.
Suqh evidently was the policy of the law under
-which she was seized, which had for its object the
Vid. ante, p. 594

CASM3 INT1TSPREME COURT
I&MR. evelusion of British, goods;' whereas this teizure le.
j'
gsiilzedlheir introduction into the country,
It is urged iiA this _case, that a, variety 'of circumstances 'iiidicated a fraudulent intentiorn. That the
examination of the witnesses . exhibits d melancholy
view of depravity of morals, I freely admit , ,but the
observation is fbily as applicable to the testimony for
the prosecution, as that agaist ijt..
The two, principal citcumstances relied on as indicira
offrtud, to wit, hr-nearing out for Havanna, and her
fiting a cargo adapteff to a northern market, admit of
an ekplanation perfectly consistent with innocence.
For Pt is well known that a neutral never clears out

franaa British port to'a port of their enem ';, and &p
t61 irhavng a cargo adapted to, a northern market, it
isprecis~ly what she avow, that her intention Was oAdaposite it in that marl~t had the prohibition. Beea taken off on her arrival.
Under these circumstances, it appears to me that the.
Pnly question in the case was, whether the distress was.
accidental or factitibus. Ir there had- been. any fiaudulent means made use of to pr6duce the injury sustained condemnation ought to follow. But if produced by
eafases not within the control 6fman, even though the
distress- may not have been deemed, sufficient to entitle
the party to'a permit to unlade and re~t, yet it was
no sufficient cause for condemnation, and the vessel
shotild have been ordered off. That lb. distress in
,his cae Iwas -not fctitious, nor very. inconsiderable,
th)-re is every reasonto bilieve. The ,vessel had had
a voyage of seventj -five days; nearly double what
,might- reasonably have been provided, for 'she. had

Or THY,UNITED STATES.
shipped? a sea which carried away her. railings, and -181
washed overboard one of her passengers ; her shrouds- T
The
and bow-sprit were materially damaged, and her water Atamuta.
short. Under these circumstances, I must think that
this collector was less under the influence of humanity
and a s-nse of duty, than that of avarice, in making this
seizure. Had he libelledher as enemy's proplerty, I
should have thought the'6ase not destitute ;f reasonable grounds ; but it was not his iiterest to convert her
into a droit of admiralty, and it is not ou, province,
under this libel, to admit any thing into the, case which dan hear the appearance of charging with one crifiie,
amd trying for another.
Dedree affirme&.-

(PRIZE.)
Tat ATALANTA.--- Fossat ,Claimatt.
X uteutral cargo found on board an arnied er-my's vesselis not fiable
to
cotdemonation as prize of war.
A question ofprop ietary interest Farther proof ordered.

AiPXtAt&from the cire~it

couft ofor the distric t 6f

Georgia.
This ship, being a British armed vessel, was captur
ed in the year 1814, on a voyage from .Bordeame to
V6t IIL
6-

