454

AS9

N.TH9SUPREME COURT

(o MMQN LAW.)

Eitor.

EVANS V. EATON.
93
Under the 6th section ofthe patent law of 17 , ch; 156. the defendthat he would prove at
notice
gave
and
issue,
general
the
ant pleaded
tWe trial, that the machine, for the use of which, without license, the suit
was brought, had been used previous to the alleged invention of the
plintiff, in stveral places which were specified in the notice, or in some
of them, !and also at sundry other places in Pennsylvania, Maryland,
&n4 elsewherein iJse Unit'ed States." The" fefendant having given
*4idence as to some of the pjac~s specified, offered evidence as to others
norspecified. -Held, that this evidence was admissible. But the powers of'thocourt, in such a caI, are sufficient to prevent, and will be ex
orcised to pretent, the patentae from being injired by surprise.
Testimony, on the pait of the plaintiff, that the persons of'whose pricruse of the machirlii the defendant had given evidence, had paid the
plaintiff for licenses to use th6 machine since his patent, ought not to be
absolutely rejected, thoughentitled to very Lttle weight.
Q"", Whether, under,the general patent jaw, improvements on
different machlines cm becbmprehended in the same patent, Eo as to
give a right to the e clusive use of several machines separately, as well
as a right to the exclu3ive use of tEose machines in combination ?
However this may be, the act of the 21st January, 1808. ch. 117
"tfor tle rehief of Oliver Evans." authorizes the issuing to him of a petent for his invention, discovery, and improvements, in the art of minufaeturing flour, and in the several machines applicable to that purpose.
Q tre, Whether congress canconstitutionally decide the fact, that a
particular individual is an author or inventor of a certain writing or invention, so as to preclude judicial inquiry into the originality of thr author-

ship or invention?
Be this as it may, the act for the relief of Oliver Evans does not decide that fact, but leaves the question of invention and improvement open
to investigatidn under the general patent law.
Under the sixth section of the patent law, ce. 156. if the thing seeured
by patent had been in uae, or had been described in a public work an-

OF THI: UNITEI -STATES,
1 18;
-tior to he sopp9sed.d'scovery, the patent ip void, whpther the patorv
pt
desrription,
or
ue
previous
*ot@ehad i knowledge or this
Evai
Oliver Evans may claim, under hisipitent, the ,exclusive useorhs in.
"
ventions and improtemehtinn the art or manutrcturing flour i'd pIeal,
at
e
improv;l
in
his
and
invented,
he
has
which
machines
several
the
in
dytd
ment on michines previousjy.diocovered. But where his claup-is fox ma
improvement on a machine, he must show the extent or his improvement
so that itperson unierstanding the sqbject may comprehend distinctly in
what't consists.
'he not rorthe reliefofO. E. is engrated on the general patent law',
an iolfagement
so' as to give him a right to sue' in the circuit cooi, fre}
or his patent rights, although the defendant may be a citizen ofthesani
state wvith himself.

Error, to the circuit court for thi. district of Pennsylo
Tapia.
This was ap action brought by the plaintiff in error;
against the defendant in error, for an alteed infringement of the plaintiff's patent right to the use of, his improved hopper-boyt one of the several machines diwovere , invented, improved, and appI'ed by him 'to thepatent *-as
art of manufactuing flour and meal, 'wichj

granted on-the 22d January, 1808. Tlhe dlefen8ain
pleaded the general issue, and gave th 'notice- hereafter stated. The verdict-was rendered, and judgmenit
given thereupon for the defendant in the'court below;
on -which the cause was brought, by writ of erroX,tjo this
court.
At the trial in the court below, the plaintiff gave in
evidence, the several acts of congress entitled respec.,
tively, "An act to promote the .progress of useful arts, and to repeal the acts 'heretofore made -4or
that purpose ;" An act to extend-the privilege. of

obtaining patents, for useful discbveries' and in'vetr

455

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

tions, to certain persons therein mentioned, and to en1818.
Evans:
large afid deft ne penalties for violating the rights of
'
patentees; " and "An act for the relief of Oliver
v.
Eaton. Evans;" the said Oliver's petition to the secretary of
state, for a patenta and. the patent thereupon granta C(TO JAMES MADISON, ESQ. SECRETARY OF STATE

Thep tition of-Oliver Evans, of the city of Philaetphia, a
citizen of the United States, respectfully showeth,
That your petitioner having discovered certain useful improvements, applicable to various purposes, but particularly to
thd art ofmanufacturing flour and meal, prays a patent for the
same, agreeably to the act of congress, entitled, "an Act for the
reliefof Oliver Evans."
The principles of these improvements consist,
1. In the subdivision of the grain, or any granulated or
pulverized substance; in elevating and conveying them from
place to, place in sm. II separate parcels: in spreading, stirring
turning and gathering them by. regular and constant motion
oyheso as to subject them to artificial heat, the full action
danger
avoid
to
necessary,
air to cool and dry. the same when
from fermentation, and to prevent insects from depositing
their eggs during the operation of the manufacture.
2. In the application of the power which moves the mill, or
other principal machine, to work any machinery which may be
used to apply the said principles, or to perform the said operationi by constant motioi an& continued rotation, to save expense and labour.
The machinery, by him already invented, and uoed for apply
ing the above principles, consists of animproved elevator,
an improved- couveyor, an improved hopper-boy; an improved
drilland an improved kiln-drier. For a particular explanation
of the principles,-and a description and application of the ma
ehies which he has so invented and dissovered, he refers to
is
the specifications'and drawing, heritinto annexed; and he

OF THE UNITD1

STATES.

ed to the said Oliver, dated the twenty-second day oi
January, in the year 1808;b and further" gavA ib eve-

8 ,
Evans

ready, if fhe secretary of the statpqshall deem it necdi iry, to
deliver modeli of the said machines.
.OLIVEI tyANS.

taton.

DFSCRIPTION
Of the several machines invented by Olver Evans, and use&
in his imnrovement on the process of the art of manufacturing
flour vr meal from grain, and which are mentioned in his spe-.
cification as applicable to other purposes.
'No. 1.-THE ELEVATOR.
Plate vi. Fig 1. AB. represents an elevator for raising graiir
for the granary 0, and conducting it by spouts into a number
of different garners as may be necessary, where a mill grinds
separate parcels for toll or pay. The upper pulley being set
in motion, and the little gate A drawn, the buckets fill as they
pass under the lower, and empty as they pass over the upper.
pulley, and discharge' into the nioveab* spout B, to be by it directed to any of the different garners.
Fig. 2 Part of the strap and bucket, showing how they ard
attached.
A, abucket of sheet iron, formed ftorm the plhte 8, which is
doubled up and rivited at the corners, and rivited to the strap.
B, a bucket made of tough wood, say willow,' from the form
9, being bent at right angles at e c, one side and bottom cover.
ed with leather, and fastened to the strap by a small strao of
leather, passing through its main strap, and tacked to its sides.
C, a lesser bucket-of wood, bottomed with leather, the strap.
forming one side of it.
D, a 'lesser bucket of sheet iron, formed from the plate I ,.
and'rivited to thd strap which forms one side of the bucket.
Fig. 6. Thiform. of a gudgeon for the lower pulley

VOL. 11L

(b) See note b page 461,
59

V.

CASES-IN THE SUPREME "COURT
iSJt.
Evans
Jatoli

-lence, that an agent for the plaintiff, wrote a note to
the- defeidett in answer to which, he called on the
upper pul7. The form of the gudgeons of the shaft of the
ley.
12. The form orthe buckle for tightening the elevator strap.
Fig. n . plate vii, represents an elevator applied to raise
grain into a granary, from a wharf, &c. bf'a horse.
16, represents an elevator raising the meal in a grist-will.
8, represents an elevator wrouglt by a man.
-Plate viii, 35, 39, represents an elevator raising grain from
the hold of a ship.,
33, 34, represents an elevator raising meal from three pair
of stones, in'a flour mill, with all the improvements complete.
Plate ix, Fig. I. CD represents an elevator raising grain
spout, and manfrom a waggon. E. represents the moieable
apartner of fixing it, *.os to direct the grain intp the different
meats.
Plate x. 2, 3, and 11, 12, represents elevators, applied'to
raise rice in a mill for bulling anil cleaning iice.
The straps of elevators are best made of white harness
leather.
II.-TItE CONYEYOR.
Plate vi. fig. 3, represents- a conveyor for conveying meal
at the
from the millstones into the elevator, stirring it to cool
same'operation, shiowing how the flights are set across the spiral line to change from the principle o f'an endless screw to that
of a number of'ploughs, which answer better for the purpose
of moving meal, showing also the hling flights set broadsideforemost, and the manner of connecting it to the lower pulley.
N.

of the elevator which turns it.
Fig, 4. The gudgeon of the lower pulley of the elevator
connected to the socket of the convevor.
5. An end view of the socket and the bandwhich fastens !t
to the conveyor"

OF THE UNITED STATES.

459

agent, at Chambersburg, at t64 house oflaCob Snyder; on the ninth 'of August, 1813 ; there werd:a nu

I1
e8.
Ea..

Plate viii. 37. 36.-4 rehres~nts a conlveyor .for colieying
grain from the ship to tne elevator 4-5, with a joint at 36i -to
let it rise and lolver with -le tide.
44-45. A conveyor for conveying grain to diflberent.garners
froin an elevator.
3 1-32. A conveyor for conveyingtil flounto th" fii6l'eelvator, or the coarse fl:ur to he eye of the stone.
Plate ix, Fig. 1 1, represents a conveyor for conveying the
weal from tw., pair of stones, to the elevator onnected'to'te
pulley, which turns thnm both.
P late'x. 2-11, represents conveyors applied-to con*6Y'jie,
in a rice mill, from aboat or waggon t6 the 'elevator, 'or frefrt
the fanto an elevator.
No. 11[.-THE HOPPERBOY.
Plate vii. Fig. 12, represents a hqpperboy roniplete'fbr 'performing all the operations specified, except that only one arm

V.

is shown.
AB, the upright shaft; 'CED, ithd arms, with: flights and
sweeps.
E, the sweeper to fill the-bolting hoppers [I-ICFE, tne brace, or stay, for s~teadying the arms.
Pthe pulley, and W, the weight, that is to'balande the arms,
to make them play lightly on the meal, and rise or.fall, asmthe.
quantity increases or diminishes.
ML, the leader. N, the iitch' sti'ck, which can b6 meted'
along the leading he; to shorten or lengthen it.'
Fig; 13. SSS, the arms turned bottom up, showin .tht flikhts
and sweepers complete at one end, and the lines on-the~oth'er,
end show the mode for laying out for the flights,'so as to ha4
the right inclination and distance, according, to the biicle de.;scribed by each, and so that the flights of one end may trackbetween those of the other.; The sweepers an'd the'flights at
each end of the arms are put on with a thumb asciw, so thit'
_l *ie4,
they may be moved, andad that these flighte may-:t

46o,

CASES IN, THE SUPREME COURT

119.. her of inillers present; the, defendant then told the
agent -that hie had got Mr. Evans' Book, a plate in
Evan
xoa. to drive meal-outwards from the centre, and at the same time
trail itround tlie whole circle : this'is of use sdmetimes, when
we wish to bolt one quantity which we have under the hopperboy, without bolting !hat which we are grinding, and ye to
spread that which we are grinding to dry aod cool,jaying round
the'liopperboy, convenient to be shovelled under it, as soon as
.we wish to bolt it.
Fig. 15. The form* of the pivot for the bottom of the up-

right shaft.
14. The plate put on the bottoni of the shaft to rest on the
shoulder of the pivot; this plate is to prevent the arm from descending so low as to touch the floor.
Plate -v.iii. Fig ,25, represents a hopperboy attending two
bolts in a-mill, with all the improvements complete.
Plato ix. The hopperboy is shown over QQ. Fig. 1 is tha
.a-zmturned upsidedown%to show the flights an sweepers.

No.IV.-THE DRILL.
Plate vi. Fig. -1. HG represents a drill Conveying grain from.
the different garners to the elevator, irla mill for grinding parcels for toll or pay.
Plate vii. Fig. 16. Ild a drill, conveying meal from the stones
in i grist mill to the elevator.
The strap of this machine may be made broad, and the sub-stance to be moved may be dropped od its upper sm face, to be

carried and dropped over the pulley at the other end: in this
case it reqtires onle bucket like those of the elevator, to brink
up any that may %pill off the strap.
For full and complete directions for proportioning all the
parts, .constructing, and using the above-described machines,
see the book which I have published for that express purpose,
entitled, "TheYoung Mill wright and Miller's Guide." See
plate viii. representing a mill, with three pair of millstones,
with all the inprovementscomplete, except the kiln-drier.

OF THE UNITED STATES,
the. Millwrighut's Guide, and if the agent woiuld take
19141
forty dollars, the defendant would give it Jim ;-, the
SEvaus
.No. V,-THE KILN-DRIER.
E .
Plate ix. Fig. 2. A., the stove, which. may be constructeA
-simply of six plates, and enclosed by a brick wall lined with a
mortar composca pfpulverised thnircoal and clay. B., the
plpa ior carrying off the smoke. ' CfC., th6 air-ijpes, connecting the space between the stove and wall with the conveybr.
DD., the pipes for the heated air to ecape.
The air is admitted at the air hole belo.w, regulated by i ra,
g'ster as experience shall teach to be best, so as not to destroy
the.'plinciole which causes the flour to fermenteasily, and:soo
in the proces, of baking. .The conveyors must be covemed
close , the-meal admitted by small holes as .it falls -from the
:mift-stones.
OLIVER EVATN4.9'
Witness,
Saml. I. Smith,
W
s
Jo. Gules, junr.
h THE UNITED STATES OF AMERIA:
To allwhom these lettcri Patent shall come:
Whereas Oliver Evans-of the city of Philadelphia, a' cit-"
zen of ihe United States, hath allegeal that he hath invented"d
new and usefuil improvement in the.art of manufactiring 'floa-.
and mMial, by meain of certain machines, which. he terms adn
improved elevator, an'improved, conveyor, an improved op.
per-boy, an improved drill, and an improved kiln-drier ; which
machines are moved by the same power that moves the milorother principal machinery, and in their opertion subdivide any"
granulated or.pulverised substance, elevkte'an'd carry the sabie
from place to place in small and separate parcels, sprea'c,
stir, turn andl gather them by retgular and constant motion,
so as to subject them to artificial heat, and- the air to dry and
-cool when necessary; a more particular and full description

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
fibin a,
defendant said that his hopper-boy. was taken
give no.
plte in Mr. Evan's book; he said he would
agent
the
dollars
mote, alleging, that the hundred
on which his
asked was too much; that the stream
The
mill was, was a small head of Conogocheage.
not
would
defendant
agent then declared, that if the
a,
comence
morning, he would
pay him by MIonday
court.
siit in the circuit
The plaintiff further gave in evidence, that another
ts mill on
agent for the plaintiff was in the defendan
hopper-boy
a
the second of November. 1814, and saw
the. plain,
there, on the principles and construction of
that a
heard
had
witness
tiff's hopper-boy. This
in a schedule:
in the words of the inventor is hereby annexed
before his
used.
or
known
been
not
which improvement has
believe that, be
application-has zffirmed that he does verily
improvement, and
is the true';nventor or discoverer of the said
act for the re"An
entitled,
agreeably to the act of congress
4.of State
Se~:etaty
lief of Oliver Evans," which auihurizes'the
use of
the
to
right
to secure to him by patent the exclusive
meal,
and
flour
such improvement in the artof manhufacturing
improvdiscovered,
and in the several machincs which lhe has
into the treasury
ed and.applied to that purpose ; he has'paid
delivered a re
of the United States, the sum of thirty dollarA,
the Secretary
to
ceipt for the same, and presented a petition
exclusive property
of State, signifying a derire of obtaining an
a patent pnay be
in the said improvement, and prayitig that
to grant, acgranted for-that purpose: These are therefore
his heirs, adminis.
cording to law, to the said Oliver Evans
years, from the
trators, or assigns, for the term of fourteen
full and exclusive
twenty-second day of JanuAry, 1808, the
to others to
vending
and
using,
right and liberty of making,

_OF THE UNITED STATES.

.
right was.obtaincd under Pennsylvania; but did not
known of any rights under Pennsylvania sold by the
.r.
plaintiff ; and did not know that it was erected in any
mill after the patent under Pennsylvania. The de- Eaon
be used, the said improvement, a description whereof isgiven
in th words of the said Oliv er Evans himself, in the sched.
ule hereto annexed, and is made a part of these presents.
Ia testimaony wvhrcoJ, I have caused these Letters

SEAL.

to be made Patent, and the seal ofthe United
States to be hereunto affixed.
Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, this twenty-second day ofJantrary, in the year of our Lord, ouethou-,
sand eight hundred and eight, and of the
independence of tb," Unite,!
America, the thirty-second,

t ates of

TH: JEFFERSON.
By the President,
JAMES MADISON,'Secretary'C( State.

City of Washington, To wit:
I DO HEREBY CERTIFY, That
the forcgoing Letters Patent were deLivered to me on the twenty-second day
of January, in the year of our Lord,
one thousand eight hundred and eight
to be examined; that I have examined
the same, and find them conformable
to law. And I do hereby return the
same to the Secretary of State, within
fifteen days from the date aforesaid, to
wit:, on this twenty-second day of
January, in the year aforesaid,
C. A. RODNEY, Attorney General of the United Stat.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT"

1ISS.
M

Evans

.X.

fendant's hopper-boy had an upright shaft, with a lead
ing arm, in the first place, and a large
arm inse~ted
0M
.
THE

SCHEDULE

Referred to in these letters patent, and making part of the same
containing a desciiption, in the words of the said Oliver
Evangof his improvemants in the art of manufacturing flour
and meal.
"11Ayfirst principle is to elevale the meal as fast as it is ground
in small separate parcels, in continued succession and rotation

'to fall on the cooling floor, to spread, stir, turn and expose it to
the action of the air, as much as possible, and to keep it in
cofistant and continual motion, from the lime it is ground until it be bolted : this I do to giye the air full action, to extract
the superfluous moisture from .he meal, while the heat,. generated by the friction of grinding, will repel and tFirow it off,.
and the mqre effectually dry and cool the meal fit for bolting
in-the course of the operation, and save time and expense to
ihe iiller. Also to avoid all danger from fermentation by its
laying warm in large quantities as is usual-, and to prevent insects Prom depositing their eggs, which may breed the worms
often found in good flour. And further to co.nplete this principle so as to dry the- meal more effectually, and to cause the
flour to keep swcet a longer space of tine, I mean to increase
the heat of the meal as it falls ground from the millstones, by
application of heated air, that is to say, to kilndry the meal as
it is ground instead of kilndrying the grain as usual. The flour
will be fairer and bette: than if made from kilndried grain, the
skin of which is made so brittle that it pulverizes and mixes
with the flour. This principle i apply by various machines
ihich I have invented, constructed, and adapted to the purposOs hereafter specified, numbered 1,2, 3, .1,5.
My second principle is to apply the power that moves the
mill or other principal machine to work my machinery, and by
t quj.to perform various operations which have always hbretor

OF THE 'UNITED STATES:

46

WS$.,
vith flights, and leading lines, and swe'epers ; a little
board, for.the purpose of sweeping the meal in the I EV s
greatly to les- Eatn.
fore been performed by manual force, and thus
sen the expense and labour of attending'mills and other *orks
The application of those principles, including that of kilndrying the meal, during the process of the manufacture, or oth.
erwise to the improyement of the process of manufadturing
flour, and for other purposes, is what I claim as my invention"
and improvement in the art, as not having been known or
used before my discovery, knowing well that the principles
once applied by one set of machinery, to produce the desiredc
eflect, others may be contrived and variously constructed, and
adapted to produce like effects in the-application of the principles, but perhaps none to produce the aetii-ed effect more com-7
pletely than those which I have invented an4 fdlapted to the
purposes, and which are hereinafter specified.
No. 1.THE ELEVATOR. Its use is to elevate any grain,
granulated or pulverized substances.' Its use in the manufacture of flour or meal is to elevate the meal from the millstones
in small separate parcels, and to let it fall through the aii on
the cooling fluor as-fast as it i. ground. It consists of qriendless strap, rope, or chain, with a number of small bucket§ attached thereto, set to revolve rbund two pulleys, one at the
lowest and the other at the highest point between which the
substance is to be raised. These buckets fill astheyturn under
the lower and empty themselves as they turn over the upper pulley. The whole, is inclosed by cases of boards to prevent waste.
No. 2. THE CONVEYER. Its use is t6 convey any grainy
grdnilated or pulverised substances, in a horizontal, ascending,
or descending direction. Its use in the process of the art of
manufacturing fiour, is to convey the meal from the millstones,
as it is ground, to the elevator, to be'raised, and tq keep the
meal in constant motion, exposing it to the action of the air;
also in some cases to-convey the meal from the elevator to the
bolting hopper, and to cool znd dry it fit for bolting, instead of
the hopperboy, No. 3; also to mix the flour after it is bolt~d
Vor.. III.

60

k
1818.
Bvans
v.

AS FS IN THE SUPREME COURT
bolting hoppers and spreading it over the floor; a ba
lance Weight, to cause the arrms to play up and down
lightly over the meal. The leading arms were about 5
also to convey'the grain from one machine to another, and in
this operation to rub the impuritie- off' the grain. It consists of
alu endless screw, set to revolve in a tube, or section of a tube,
receiVing the substance to be moved at one end, and delivering
it at thn other end; but for tie purpose of conveying floir or
meal, I construct it as follows: instead of making it a continued
spiral. which forms the endless screw, I set small boai ds, called
flight, at.an angle crossing the spiral line;" these flights operate like so many ploughs following each other, moving the
meal from one end of the tube to the other with a continued

motion, turning and exposing it to the action of the air to he
cooled and dried. Sormetimes I setsome of the flights to move
broadside forerpost, to lift the meal from one side to fall on the

other, to expose it to the air more effectually.
No.3. THE HOPPERBOY. Its use is to spread uny grain,
granulated, or pulverized substance, over a floor or even surface, to stir it and expose it to the air to dry arid cool it, when
necessary, and at'the same time to gather it from. the circum'ference of the circle it describes, to or near the cent6r, or to
spread it from the center to the circumference and leave it in
the place where we wish it to be delivered, when sufficiently
ope rated on. Its use in the process of manufacturing flour, is
to-spread the-meal as fast as it fulls from the elevator" over the
cooling floor, on the area of a circle, of from eight to sixteen
feet more or less in diamater, according to the work of the mill
tb stir and turn it continually, and to expose it to the action of
the air to be dried and cooled, and to gather it into the bolting
hoppers, and to attend the same regularly. It consists of anf
o
upright shaft made roun4 at the lower end, about two thirds
its lngth, and set to revolve 'on a pivot in the centre of the
cooling floor; through this shaft say five feet from the floor*
is put a piece called the leader, and the lower end of the shaft
passes very loosely. through a round hole in the zentre of another piece called the arm,, Way from eight to sixteen feet in

OF THE UNITED STATES:
feet long, and seemed to be in proportion,the arm about
14, and the length of the sweep about 9 inches.

1818
,.*.-'
Evans

length, this last piece revolving horizonially, describes the cir- Eliton.
cle ofrthe-conling floor, and' is led round by a cord, the two
ends of which are attached to the two ends of tle arms, and
passing- through a hole ai each end of the leader, so ihat the
Cord will reeve to pull each end of tke arms equally. The
weight of the arms is nearly lMilan ed by a weight hung to a
cord, which is attached to the arms,'and passes over a puiley'
inear to the upper end of the upright shaft, to cause the artas to
play lightly, pressing with only part of their weight on the meal
that may be under it. The fremost edges of the airns ar'
sloped upwards, to cause them to rise over and keep on the"
surface of the meal as the quantity increases ;' and if it be used
separately and unconnected with the elevator, th Teal may be
thrown with ihovels within its reach, while ih 'hption, and it
will spread it level, and rise over it until the heap be four' feet
high or more, which it' will gather into the" hoppers, always
taking from the surface, after turning it to the air a grekt number of times. The underside of these armsi are set with little.
inclining boards called flights, about four inches apart next the
centre, and gradually closing to about two inches next thq extremities, the flights of the one arm to track between those of
the other, they operate like ploughs, and ;t every revolution
of the machine they give the meal two turns towards the centre of the circle, near to which are generally the bolting hoppers. At each extremity of the armsthereis a little board attahed to the hindmost edge of the arm to move side foremost;
these are called sweepers; their use is to receive (he nal a&'
it falls from the elevator, and trail it round the circledescribed
ij the arms that' the flights may gather ittowards the centre
from every part of the circle; without these, this nachifio
would not spread the meal over the whole 'rea of the circle
described by the arms. Other sweepers are attached to that
part of the arms which pass over the bolting hoppers, to aweep
te meal into thern.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
'1818.

And
Splaintiff

the

defendant, havihg previously given the
written nbtibe, that upon the trial of the

-Evanp
But if the bolting hoppersvbe near a wall and not in the cenV.
Eaton. -tre of the cooling floor, then in this case the extremity of the
,arms are made to pass over them, and the meal from the elevator let fall near the.centro of the machine, and the flights are
'reversed to turb the meal from the centre towards the circumference, and the sweepers will sweep it into the hoppers. Thus
,this machine receives the meal as it falls from the elevator on
the cooling floor, spreads it over the floor, turns it twice over at
every revolution, stirs and keeps it ip continual motin, and
gathers.it at the same operation into the bolting hoppers, and
.attends them regularly. If the bolting ree!s are stopped, this
machine spreads the meal and rises over it, receiving under it
from one, t'wo, to three hundred bushels of meal, uiqtil the bolts
.are set in motion again, when 'itgathers the meal into the hop.
pers, and as the heap diminishes, it follows it down until all is
b-olted. I claim as my invention, tie peculiar properties or
principles which this machine possesses, viz. the spreading,
turning and gathering the meal at one operation, and the rising
and lowering of its arms by its motion, to accommodate itself
.to any quantity of meal it has to operate on.
No. 4. THE DRILL. Its use is to move any grain', granulated or pulverized substance, from one place to another : it
consists, like the elevator, 'of an endless strap, rope or chain
&c. with little rakes instead of buckets, (the whole cased with
-boards to prevent waste) revolving round two pulleys or rollers.
Its use in the process of the manufacture of flour; isto draw
or rake the grain or meal frqm-one part of the mill to another.
Its-receives it at one pully, ant delivers it at the other, in a
horizontal, ascending or descending direction, and irf some cases
may be more conveniently applied for that purpose than the
conveyer. I claim the exclusive right to, the principles, and to
all the machines'above specified, and for all the uses and pur-poses specified, as not having been heretofore known or used
-beforp I discovered them. They may all be united and comhbj

OF THIE UNITED STATES.
cause, the defedant -would give in evidence, under
the general issue, the following special, matter, to

MBIS.

ned in one fdqur thill, to produce my improvement on the art Eto.
of Manufacturing flour complete, or they may each be used
separately for any ofthfe purposes specified and aloted tb th~tOe
or to produce my improvcmcpt in part, according* to the c: l
cumstance of the case.
No. 5.THE KILN-DRIER. To kilndry the medl aftetit
is ground, and during the operation of the process of manufacturing flour, I tako'a close stov of any common fQrm, anl en"close it with a wall made of' the best noncondtictor of'beqt;

leaving a small space between the stove and the wall;'to a'dmir
air to be heated in its passage through this sp~ce. I set'tbis'
stove beloiv the conveyer that conveys the meal from the mill
stones asgrpund into the elevator, and I connect the sjiac& be-'
tween the stove and the wall- to the conveyor tube by d piOe'9n-"
tering near the elevator, and I cov6r the conveyor' close,' dntl
-set a'tube to rise fromtho end of the conveyor tube nehr thbh
,,mill stones; fbr the hated air to ascend and esbape 'as ti a
chimney. [ make fire in the stove, and idmit a;r at the bottom
of the space between it and the wull rouud it, to be heated tne
iass along the conveyer tube, meeting the meal which will b.
heated by the hot air, and the superfluous moisture will be more
'powerfully repelled and thrown off, and the meal will be dried
and cooled as it passes through tie operation. of the elevator'

and hopperboy.

The flour will be fairer than if the grain had

been kilndried, and it will keep longer sweet than flour hot

kiindried. I set ailmy machines in motion by the common
means of cog and round tooth, and pinion straps, ropes, or
chains, well known to every millwright.
Arrangement'and connexion of the several machines, so as
to apply my principles to prdduce my improvements complete'
I fix a spout through the wall of the mill -for the grain to be
emptied into from the wagoner's baig, to run into a box hung' at
the andef a scale-beam to weigh a waggon load ata draught.
From thii box it descends into the grain elevator, which raises

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

470,
S1L
Evans
Eaton.

wit: "Ist. That the improved hopperboy, for -which,
inter; alia, the plaintiff in his declaration -alleges, he
it-to the granary ,over the cleaning machines, and as it passes
Ethrough them,'it may he directed into
the same elevator to ascend to be cleaned a second time, and then descends into a ginary, over the hopper ofthe mill-stones to supply them regulirly, and as ground it falls fromi the several pair of mill-stones
into the conveyors, where it is drie4 by the heated air, of the
kiln-drier, and is conveyed into the meal elevator, to be raised
and dropped on the cooling floor, within reach of the hopper.
boy, which receives and spreads it over the whole area of the
circle which it describes, stirringand turning it continually, and
gathering it into the bolting hoppers which it attends regularly. The part of the flour which is not sufficiently bolted by the
first operation, is conveyed by a conveyor or drill, into thp elevator, to ascend with the meal to be bolted over again, and that
part of the-meal which has not been sufficiently ground at the
first operation, is conveyed by a conveyor or drill, and let run
into the eye bf the mill stone to be ground over.
Thus the-whole of the operations which used to be performed
by manual labour, is, from the time the wheat is emptied from
the waggoner's bag, or from the ship's measure, until it enters
the bolts and the manufacture be completed in the most perfect
manner, performed by the machinery moved by the power
which moves the mill, and this machinery keeps the meal in
constant motion during the whole process, drying and cooling it
more completely, avoiding all danger from fermentation, and
preveuting insects from depositing their eggs, and performing
all the operations of grinding and bolting to much greater perfection, making the greatest possille quantity of the best quality
of flour out of the grain, saving much time and labour and expense to the miller, and preventing much from being wasted
by the motion 'of the machines being so slow as to cause none
of ihe flour to raise in form of dust, and be carried away bY the

OF THE UNITED STATES9,

T.

hasobtained a patent, was not originally, discovered
!
by the patentee, but had been in use anterior to the
supposed discovery of the patentee, in sundry places,
V.
to wit: at the mill of George Fry and Jehu Hollings. Eat;. ..
worth, in Dauphin. county, Pennsylvania; at Christian Stauffer's mill in Warwick township, Lancaster
county, state of Pennsylvania ; at Jacob Stauffer's mill
in thesame county, at Richard Downing's mill in
Chester county, Pennsylvania; at Buffington's mill
on the Brandywine ; at Daniel Huston's milI in Lancaster county, Pennsylvania; at Henry Stauffersmill.in York county, Pennsylvania; and at DihPl:
mill-in the same county, or at . )me of the said places'
and also' at sundry other places in the said state of'
Pennsylvania, the state of Maryland, and elsewhere
air, and the cases of the machines being made close, prevents
any from. being lost.",
OLIVER EVANS.
Wtess

Samuel H. Smnizh,.

Witnesses I Jo. Gales, jun.
-

Washington County, Distr:,tof Columbiaj viz.

THIS 41h day of November, 1837,.pei sonally appeared before me, a justice of the peace in and for said county. Oliver
Evans, who, being duly affirmed according to law.'declares
that he is a citizen.of the |lnitpil States. and~that his usual.;
place of residence i, in the city of Philadelphia, and that he
verily believes th: he is the true and original invenlor of the
improvements he,, im above specified, for which he "snl''it*~
pitent.
OLIVER EVANS.,
Affirmed before me,
SAM. H. SMITH

CASES- IN THE SUPREME COURT
in the United .Sfates: 2d. 'That the patent given ti
Sthe plaintiff, as be alleges in his declaration, is more
Evans
extensive'tban his discovery ,or invention, for that
v*.
Eton. .certain parts of the machine in said patent, called an
improved hopper-boy, and" which the plaintiff claims as
his, invention and discovery, to wit, the upright shaft,
avo'sr ajnd flights, and sweeps, or some of them, and
those parts by whichthe meal is spread, turned and
gathered at one operation, and also several other
parts, were not originally inventei1 and discovered by
hrim, but were in use prior to his said supposed invention or discovery, to- vit, at the places above mentioned, or some of them. 3d. That the said patent is
.lso more extensive- than the plaintiff's invention or
discovery; -for that the application of the power that
moves the mill or other principal machine to the hopper-boy is not an original invention or discovery of
the plaintiff but was in use anterior to his said supposed invention 6r- discovery, to, wit, at the places
above mentioned, 'or some of them. 4th. That the
said patent is void, beicause it purports to give him an
exclusive property in an improvement in the art of
mapfacturing meal, by means of a certain machine,
termed an improved h.pperboy, of which the said.
plaintiff is not the original inventor or discoverer;
parts of the machine in the description thereof referred to by the patent , having been in use anterior
to tae plaintiff's said supposed discovery, to 'wit, at
the, places above mentioned, or some of them; and,,
.tje'-sdid patent and description therein referred toe
o6ntains no statement,, specification, or description,
1818.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
by which those parts, so used as aforesaid, may -be
distinguished from those of which the said plaintiff
may have-been the inventor, .or, discoverer, protesting
at the same time that he has not been the inventor
or discoverer of any of the parts of the said machine;
5th. That the improved elevator, described in the
declaration, or referred to therein, was not originally
discpvered by, the plaintiff, but *as anterior to his
said supposed discovery or invention, described in
certain public works, or books, to wit, in Skaaw's Travels; in the first volume of the Universal History;
in the first volume: of -Jlor'mer's Hushadry; in, Fergusw's .lMchankcs; in Bossuet's Histoire des- .7athe-matiqu;-in Wolf's- (ours des
JMathematiques; in
Desagulier's Experinental Philoscphy, and in Pronqys .Areitecture Hydraulique, or some of them.
6th. That the said patent is more extensive than the
invention or discovery of the plaintiff, because certain :parts of the ,machine called an iniproved elevator, .vere, anterior to the plaintiff 's said supposed in-,
vention or discovery, describeil in certain public works,
or books, to wit, the works or books above mentioned, or some of them ; and that the said patent is void,,
because it neither contains or refers to any specification or description by whih the parts s6 before describe'd in the sai~d public works, may be distinguished
from those parts of which the plaintiff may be the
inventor, or discoverer, protesting, at the same time,
that he has not been the&inventor or discoverer of any
of the parts of the said 'Machine ;" gave in evidence
the existence of hopperboys prior to the plaintiff's
alleged discovery at sundry mills in the state of Penn.
VOL. IIL
61

4
1818.
Evans
V.
Eaton.

74
1,818.
,',
Eaton.

CASES IN THE 'SUPREME COURT
sylvania, mentioned in the said notice; and forther
offered to give in, evidence the existence of hopperboys prior to the plaintiff's alleged discovery,
at sundry. other mills in the state of Pennsylvania,
nbt mentioned in the said notice; and the counsel for the pJaintiff objected to the admission of any
evidence of the existence of liopperboys in the said
mills not mentioned i the said notice. But the court
decided that such evidence was competent and legal.
To whidh -decision the counsel for the plaintiff excepted. The plaintiff, after the above evidence had
been kIid before- the jury, offered further to give in
evidence that certain of the persons mentioned in
the defendant's notice, as having hopperboys in their
mills, and also certain of the persons- not mentioned
in the said notice, but of whom it had beeh shown by
the defendant that they had hopperboys in their tuills,
had, since the plaintiff's patent, paid the plaintiff for
license to u~e his improved hopperboy in the said
mills respectively. But the counsel for the defendant
objected to such evidence as i*competent and illegal,
and the court refused to permit the same to be laid
before the jury. Tot which decision the plaintiff's
counsel excepted.
The court below charged the jury that the patent
contained no grant of a right- to 'the several machines,
bt was confined to the improvement in the art of
manufacturing flour by means -of-those machines ; and
that the plaintiff's claim- must, therefore, be confined
to the right granted, such as it was. That it had
been contended that the schedule was part of the patent, and contained a l/im to the invention of the peculiar properties and principles of the hopperboy, as

OF THE UNITED STATES.
'vell as other ma.hines., But the court was of opi- 1811.
mon, that the schedule is to be considered as part of '
Zvans'the patent, so far as it is descriptive of the machines.1,.*
but not farther; and even if this claim had been con- Eaton.
tained in the bo.dy of the patent, it would have conferTed no right which was not granted by that instru-ment.
The court further proceeded to instruct tlie juiy
that the law authorized the president to grant a pa.
'tent, for the exclusive right to make, construct, use,
and vend to be used, any new and useful art, ma-chine, manufacture, or composition of. matter, or
,any new and useful improvemen~t !n any-art, machine,
'&c. not knowr or used before the application. As
to what constitutes an improvement, it is declared,
-that it must be in. the principle of the machine, and
that a mere change in the forns or propoitions of 'any
machine shall not be deemqd a discovery. Previous.
ly to obtaining the patent, the applicant is required to
swear, or affirm, that he verily believes that he is the,
-true inventor or discoverer of the art, machine, or improvement, for which he solicits a patent; and he must
also deliver a written description of his iIvention, 'and'
of the manner of using it, so clearly and exactly, as 'to
'distinguish the same from all other things before
known, and to enable others, skilled-in the art, :to
construct and use the same. That from this short
analysis of the laW, the following rules might be deduced. 1st. That a patent may be for -a newv and
,useful art; but it must be practical, it must be appli'cable and referrable to something by *hich it may be
proved to be useful; a mere abstract prificiple cannbt be
appropriated by patent. 2d. The discovery anuzt
not only be useful, but new; it must not have Ueea
-

CASES IN THE SUPREME CORT.
known or used before in any part of the world. It
was contended ky be plaintiff' counsel; that the title
litffscusl
Dian&.b
IT.Iof the patentee cannot be impeached, unless it be shown
that he knewi of a prior discovery of the same art, maEato.
chine, &c.; and that true and original are sanonyuousterms in the intention of the legislature, But, as
it wa's. not pretended that those terrxs meant the same
thing in common parlance, neither was it the intention of-the legislature'to use them as such. The first
section of the law, referring to the allegations -ofthe
application for a patent, speaks of the discovery as
.something "not known or used before the application;" andin the 6th section it is declared, that the
defendant may give in evidence that the thing secured
by patent, was not originalky discovered by the Patentee, but has been in use, had been described in
discovery.
!upposed
joine.public work anterwr to the
d. If the discovery be of an impsovement only, it
Anust. be an improvement in the principles of a machine. art,'or minufacture, before known or used; if onl in the form or proportion, it has not the merit of a
discovery, which can entitle the party to a patent. 4th.
The grant can only be for the discovery as recited
and described in the pateht and specification. If the
,grantee, is not the original. discoverer ot the art, machine, &c. for which the grant is made, the whole is
Toid. Conseque~itly, if the patent be for the whole of,
the machine, and the discovery were of an improvement,
-the patent is void. 5th. A machine, or an improvement,
may be new, and the' proper subject of a patent, though
-teVqyts of it were before known and in use. The com
binati6,.therefore, of old machines, to produce a new
1818:

OF THE UNITED STATES.
and useful iesult, is a discovery for which a patent
may-be granted.
The above principles would apply to most of the
questions hat had been discussed. It was strongly
insisted upon by the defendant's cdunsel, that this patent is broader than the discqvery ; the evidence proving, that in relation to the hopperboy,,for the Vr,ing
of which this suit is brohught, the plaintiff can p'. td
to no, discovery'beyond that of an improiwment in a
machine known and used before the alleged discovery
of the plaintiff.' This argument proceeded, upon the
supposition, that the plaintiff haa obtained a.p~tvat
for the hopperboy, whiclh was entirely a mistake. 'he
patent was "for an improvement in the art of. Wnufacturing flour," by means of a hopperboy and:fo
other machines descrlbed in the specifiction, aud tot
for either of the machines so combined and used. That
the plaintiff is the original discoverer of this improv'e'
ment, was contested by no personi, apd, therefiore, it

cohld not with truth be alleged that the patent is-btoader than the discovery, or that the - plaintiff coulcIbot
support an action on thispatet against any person .. o
should use the whole discovery.
But could, be recover against n person who 'k~

made or' used one of the inechines, which in part±..
stitute the'Aiscovery ? The plaiiitiff insisted Ahgt-he
could, because,. 'having a right to -the whole,he is
j6cessarily- entitled, to the-puts of which that'whIe is
composed. Would it be seriousTy contendjed ,that a
person might ac46ire a right to the excIusive us of
IL machine, because when used in combivation ,with
others, a new and useful result i$- produced, which 7&e
could not have acquired independent of that combi-

JIS.
v.
Eatqa_

78
1818.
Evans
Y.
Eaton.

-CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT
nation ? If he could, then if A. were proved to be the
original inventor of the hopperboy; B. of the levaorg
tor,'and so on, as to the other machines, and either
had obtained patents for their respective discoveries,
or chose to abandon them to the public, the plaintiff;
although -it wds obvious he could not have obtained
separate patents for those machines, might, nevertheless,
de'rive the original inventors, in.the first instance, and
th public, in the latter, of their acknowledged right to
use thiose discoveries, by qbtaining a patent for an im'proVement consisting in a combination of those machines
to produce a new result.
The court further charged the' jury,' that it was not
quite clear that this action could be maintained, although it Avas proved beyond' all controversy, that
the plaintiff was the original inventor of this mahe patent was the foundation of the action,
chine.,
and 'the gist cf the action was, the violation of a
right which'that instrument had conferred. But the
exclusive right of the hopperboy was not grhnted by
:this patent, although this partieular machine constithtes a part of the improvement of which the plaintiff
is the original inventor, and it is for this improvement
and this only, that the ,grant is made. If the grant
then was not of this particular machine, could it be
sufficient for the plaintiff to prove in this action, that
he was *he'origiral inventor of it ?
Again ; could the plaintiff have obtained a separate
patent for the hopperboy, in case he were the original
inventor of it, without first swearing, or affirming, that
'he was the true inventor of that machine ? C~rtainly
ilot. Has the plaintiff then- taken, or could be have
taken, such an oath in this case ? Most assuredly he
could not; because the pri ribed forra of the oath

OF THE UNITED STATES.

47%

1M8.'
is, that he is the inventor of tlie art, machine, or
But'since
manufacture, for which he solicits -b patent.
Evans
the patent which he solicited was not for the hopV.
perboy, but for-an iimprovement in the manufacture of Eaton.
flour, he might, with safety, have taken the oath prescribed by law, although he knew at the time that he
was not the trae inventor of the hopperboy ; and thus.
it would happen that he could indirectly obtain the
benefit of a patent right to the particular machine,
which he could not directly have obtained, without
doing what it must be admitted, in this case, he had
not done.
But this was not all. If the law had pr6vided for
fair and original discoverers a remedy when their
rights are invaded.by others, it had likewise provided
corresponding protection to others, where he has not
the merit. What judgment could the district court
have rendered on a scire facias to repdal this patentf
if. it had appeared that the plaintiff was not the. true
ana original inventor o'f the hopperboy ? Certainly not
that which the law has prescribed, viz. the repeal of
the patent ; because it would be monstrous to vacate
the whole patent, for an* invention of which the patentee was the acknowledged inventor, because he
was not the inventor of one of the constituent parts
of the invention, for which no grant is made. But
the court would have no alternative, but to gi're such a
judgment, or, in effect, to dismiss the scire facias ;
and if the latter, then the plaintiff would have beneficially the exclusive right to a machine, which could
not be impeached in the way prescribed by ]av although it should be demonstrated that he was not
either the true or the original inventor of it. And

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
181&
%
Evans
T,
Eaton.

supposing the jury 01ould be of opinion, and so find
that the plaintiff was not the original inventor of this
machine, would not the court be prevented from deelaring the patent void, under the provisions of the
6th section of the law, for the reason assigned why
the district court could Aot render judgment, upon a
seire facias? Indeed -it might well be doubted
whether the defence now made by the defendant
could be supported at all in this action, (if this action
could be maintained,) in as much as the defendant
eannbt allege, in the words of the 6th section, that the
ting secured y patent was not originally discovered
by the -patentee, since, in point of fact, the thing
patented was originally discovered by the patentee,
although the hopperboy may not have been so disBut if this defence coula not be made,
covered.
did not that circumstance afford a strong argument
against this action ? If fhe plaintiff was not the inventor of the parts, he had no right to complain that
the3 were used by others, if not in a way to infringe his
right to their combined effect. If he was the original
inventor of the parts which constitute the vhole discovery, or any of them, he might have obtained a separate patent for each machine )f which lie was the oriemiinventor.
Upon the wbole, although the court gave no positive opinion upon this question, they stated that it was
not to be concluded that this action could be supported, even if 'it were proved that the plaintiff was the
original inveltitor of the h~pperboy. But if an action
would lie upon this patent for the 4iolation of the plaintiff's right tO, the hopperbby, still the plaintiff could not
recover; if it had been shown to the satisfaction of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
jury, that he was not the origink discoverer of that
machine.
"It appeared by the testimony of the defendant's.
witnesses, that Stauffer's hopper-boy was in use many
years before the alleged discovery of the plaintiff;
that the two machines differed from each other very
little in form, in principle, oi in effect. They were
both worked by the same power which works the
mill ; and they both stir, mix, cool, dry, and conduct
the flour to the bolting chest. -Whether the flights and
sweepers in the plaintiff's hopperboy were preferable
to the slips attached to the under part of the aim. in
Staufer's ; or whether, upon the whole, the former is
a more perfect agent in, the manufacture of flour than
the latter, were questions which the court would not
undertake to decide.; because, unless the plaintiff wa s
the original inventor of the hopperboy, althbugh he
had obtained a separate patent for it, he could Jiot
recover in this action, however useful the improve.
ment might be, which he had made in that machine.
If the plaintiff had obtained a patent for his hopperboy, it would have been void, provided the jury should
be of opinion, upon the evidence, that his. discovery
did not xtend to the whole machine, but merely to an
impyovement on the principle of an, old one, and if this
hould be their opinion in the present case, the plaintiff could not recover.
It had been conte-,!ed by the plaintiff's counsef
that the defendant, having offered to -take a license
from the plaintiff, if he would congent to. rpduce the
price of it to forty dollars, he was hot at 1iberty td dqny
that the plaintiff is the 'original inventor of this ma
6'
V*T.. I1.

48
1818
Evans
V.
Eaton.

CASES IN THE SUPRKME COURT
1818.
ZEans
" "ns
V.
Eaton.

chine. This argumrnt had no weight in it, not merely because the offer was rejected, by the plaintiff's
been made;
agent, and was, therefore, as if it had not
from
plaintiff
the
but because the law prevents
not
recovering, if it appear on the trialthathe was
an
toamounted
offer
the original inventor. If the
original
acknowledgment, that the plaintiff was th
might be
'inventor, (and further it could not go,) this
entitle
used'as evidence of that fact, but it would not.
otherbe
to
proved
the plaintiff to a verdict, if the fict
wise.

The plaintiff's counsel had alto strongly insisted,
-tatunaer the equity of the tenth section of the law,
not to be allowthe defence set up in this case ought
the patent. This
ed after three years from the date of
propriety, be ad'
argument miaht. perhaps, with some
urged
dressed to the legisliture, but was improperly
action
an
in
that
to the court. The.law had declared,
of this kind, the defendant may plead the general issue,
not the orand give-in evidence that the plaintiff was
for which the patent was
ginal'inventor of the malchine
proper to
granted. The legislature has not thought
the court could
limit this defencein any manner ; and
not do it,
But what seemed to be conclusive of this point was,
altogether the
that the argument would tend to deceat
authorises
provision of the sixth section, which
be set up
not
could
it
if
-this defence to be made; for,
it would
patent,
after three years from the date of the
be in the power of the patentee to'avoid it altogether,
after tle expiration
by forbearing to bring suits until
the law has carealthough
of.that period. And thun,

O' THE UNITED STATES,
fully provided two modes of vacating a patent improvidently grdnted, the patentee, tfiough not the original inventor, and, however surreptitiously" he may
'have obtained his patent, may secure his title to the
exclusive use af another's invention, if he can for
three vears xaoia an inquiry into the validity of his title.
The last point was, that Stauffer's,invention was
abandonedandi consequently, might be appropriated
by the plaintiff. But if Stauffer was the original invent6r of the hopperboy, and those not to lake a patent
for it, it became public property by his abandon,
ment ; nor could any other person obtain a patent for
it, because no other person would be'the o-iginal inventor.
To this charge the -plaintiff's counmsel excepted.

J818*
Evans
, v.,
Eaton.-

Mr. C. J. Ingersol, for the plaintiff, premised, that Feb. t6Ik.
this patent granted an exclusive right for fourteen
y'ears in the improvement in the art, by means of the
five machines, and for the several machines, the peculiar prperties .of each 'in its practical results, and
the improvement of the art by the co-mbination of the
whole. The proof of this position is, that the defendant uses the precise machine, copied from the plaintiff's publication,' and offered to pay for it; but they
differed in price, -which led to the contesting the originality of the plaintiff's invention.
1. It is said; in the charge of the court below, that
the action is founded on the patent, which contains
no grant of a right to the several machinesi but is
confined to the improvement in the art, by 'means of
tbhose machines. The patent is to be made out in the

. CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

94
1818.
Ev
Eaton.

manner and form prescribed by the general act. What
are thiit manner and form? By recitinz the allega.
tions and suggestions of the petition ; giving a short
description of the invention, or discovery; and thereupon granting an exciusive right in the said ,invention, or discovery., The manner and form of these
letters patent are a recital -6f, 1st. The citizenship of
the patentee. 2d. The hilegations and suggegtions of
the p'etition, as to b6th the improvement and the ma'chines in a short description, ieferrinr to the annexed schedule for one more full iind particular in the
inventor's own ,words. 3d. That he has petitioned
-agreeablyto the special act. 4th. A grant of the said
improvement.-*-The description must be short and
referential. It must be a description. By the first
,section of the act of the 10th of Aoril, 1790, ch.
:34, it was to be described clearly, truly, and frlly;
perhaps because the board, constituted by that law,
was to decide whether they deemed 'the discovery or
invention sufficiently useful or important for letters
patent. The patent by express rdference, adopts the
special act in extenso. The connecting terms which
.and said, bind the whole to the granting clause; the
allegations and suggestions recited are part. of the
grant ; the machines are the means of every end, particular as well as general; nor can therebe any practical result without them. To confine such a patent
to one general result from a combination of the whole
machines, nullifies it. Itis never so. in practice, and
would operate infinite injustice in other cases. 2.
.But the s.chedule is part of the patent in all -ease# '

'OF THE 'UNITED STATES,

43.

1818.
in this case it is esnecially' so. By the act- of 1760,
2
ch. 34, s. 6. the patent, or specifications are primafacie tyans
v.
pioof of every thing -which it is incumpbent on the
plaihtiff to establish ; and by the existing law, the Eaton.,
specification is consideled as explanatory of the terms
used in the patent, so as to limit or enlarge the grafit.s
But it is said in the 'grant, that 'the schedule annexed
is made part of the patent. 'It is made so by the, publie agent to avoid trouble, litigation, and unnecessary
recitals. The petition, schedule, atid description, are
all referred to, and incorporated with the patent. , What
does the law mean by a recital of allegations and suggestions ? What more can a petitioner do-than allege
and suggest ? He cannot shape or prescribe the manner and form of the grant. The -charge denies that
the schedule, at anyrate is more than descriptive of the
maehine., or that it would confer any. right, even if
claimed in the patent. But'if no right would be conferred by insertionin the grant itself, what becomes cf
the argument which ascribes sucb:._potency- to the
grant? The charge says, the grant 43r, only be for the
discovery as recited and described in the patent and spect.jcation. "'ihe grant'is not for the, parts, because it is
for the vhole ; not in their rudiments or elements
not for wheels, cogs, Qr weights, nor for wood, iron,
or leather,; but for the pectinar properties, the new
and useful .practical results from ;each machine, and the
vast improvements from their comaniition in this art.
The harge supposes it, impossible to obtain a patent
a Whittemoreov. Cutter, "I Galls. 487.

gCASES

1818.

~he

Evans
v.
Eaton.

IN THP SUPREME COURT
for a hepperboy, unless the plaintiff could swear that
invented that machine. But the oath is not a
material, or at least$ not an indispensable prerequisite.a
3. The special act for the relief of the plaintiff, decides him.to be the inventor of the machines and im"
pravements for which he has obtained a patent. By
the constittition, art. 1. s. 8,, congress have t6dver to
promote the progress of science and the useful arts, by
securing for limited times, to authors and inventors,
the exclusive right to their respective writings -and discoveries This has been done by cbngress in the instance of the plaintiff, The special act is an absolute
grant to him, binding on all the community, and precluding any inquiry into the originality of the invention..
It include§ a monopoly in his invention, discovery, and
improvements in the art, aftd in the S'everal machines
discovered, invented, improved, and applied, for that
purpose., The patent is to issue on a simple' application in writing by the plaintiff, *ithout any prerequisites of citizenship, oath, fee, or petition, specification
and description to be filed. The act of 1793, ch.
156, requires all these, and then grants a patent for
invention or discovery; whereas this grant is for tuat,
and for improvements in the art, and in the several
machifiei. It is a. remedial act, 'and should receive a
liberal construction to effectuate the intentions of the
legislature.b The patent is as broad as the law, if the
grant be governed by the recital. Its construction is
to be against the grahtor, and according to the intent,;
a Whittemore v. Cutter, I 'Gallis,433.
b Whittemore v. Cutter, I Gallis, 430.

OP THE UNITED STATE&8

481

nor is it to be avoided by subtle distinctions: if there- 1818.
are two interpretations) the sensible one is to be adopt- Ev
the plaintiff is
ed,.c 4. The improved hoppeboy of
the only new and useful discovery which wa in -evL Eaton.
dence in the case; t"0 court misconstrued the law in
their charge in this respect, inasmuch as theftrue construction of it is not that the patentee shall be the 'frst
and original ciscoverer of a.patentable thing, but "the
true inventor" of such'a thing; that such a thing was
truly discovered and patented without kvowledge-of
its prior use, or public employment, or existence: more
especially -where; as in the present instance, f1le
coritroversy is not between conflicting patents, but'between the true patentee, of a new and useful pateritabie
thing, and a person defending himself against an infringelnent, )n'the plea of its prior use by third persons
who bad no pafent, and whose discovery, even ifproved, was'of a thing nver in use or public existence,.but
in total di'suse. The' stat. 21. Jac. 1. chl 3,s. 6. an.
1623, granis the monopoly "of the sole working or makiig of any manner of new manufactures, withiji this
realm, to the true and first inventor and inventors of
such manufactures, whicl others at the ti*me of making
such'grant, shall not ise," &c. It is covtended,, under.
our law,*that the utility isto be asertained as well as.
the originality; and that.this,-as well as.that, is partly
a question for the. jury. The thing phtentaole must
be usefid as well as- new.. The =efil"thing paiented
drevails over one, not useful nor 'patented, though ir

a Jenk.,Ont. 1313. Eystor Y.Studd, ,P1od. 467. The U.
IR.
v. Fisher, 2 Crancj. 386. 399.

asCASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT

provious parti'al existence. This is not the case of
Sconflicting patentees ; and to destroy this patent, the
Eva ns
previous use must appear, there being no pietence of
Y.
Eaton, description in a public,work. The title of the act is
"for the promotion of the useful arts." The first
section speaks of "any new and jaeful arts," not known
or used, &c. The sixth, of that which "hiad been
'n use, or described in some public woik anterior
to the supposed discoveryJ' What-'degree of use
does the law exact ? a use knour or described in a
public work. Not merely an e xperimental, or essaying; nor a"clandestine, nor obscure use. It must be
useful, and in use, perhaps in known, if not public
us.e; something equivalent to filing a specification
off record. Now here utility was lost sight 'of ir
search of novelty. It seemed to be taken for granted, that pro' ihg the pre-existence of an unpatented
The
hopperboy defeated. the . plaintiff's patent.
;asinutility
'from
hopperboy
rival
the
desuetude of
•established, The question was between a new and
useful patented machine, and an useless and, obsolete'
.9ne never patented; and which, not being useful,
never could be patented. But that the patentee's
is useful'nobody questions. At all events, the question of fact, whether 'in 'use, should have been left
to the jury. The jury are substituted for the
board, whichb' under the first law, was to decide
-whether the supposed invention was "sufficiently useful. and important" for a patent. The coust
below suppose Stnuffer to have given his discovery
to the public. But it fell into disuse; there w~s no-.
thing to sive. Stauffer did not know its value : if he
1819.

OF THE "UNITED STATNS4
a¢d albandoned i field with unknown'tfeasure in the
I1.
ground could he afterwards claim the treasure-?a5 The defendant's testimony of the ue of hopjperboys .}vans
v.
in mill&, not specified in his notice, was erroneously 'Eatoadmitted.
The objitt of the provision- 'in he 6th
section of the patent law of 1793, ch. 156, was to
simplify the proceedings, and to enable the'defendant
to give in evidence undei his notice, what he would
otherwise be obliged to plead specially.. ,The suffi-.
ciency of the notice is, therefore, to be tested by the
rules of 'special ple~ading; which, though techiicalr,
are founded in good sense and natural just.ice, and are
intended to put the adverse party,dn his guard a; tQO
.What the other intends to rely upon 'in his defenc''
Put such a notice as this could not 'answer that pdirpose.-6. The plaintiff's testimony of the 'payment
for licenses to use his impf6ved hopperboy, ought
not to have been rejected. It ought to have been
adinitted as circumstantial evidence entitled-to some
weight.
Mr. Ropkinison and Mr. Se~gean, contra. 1. Tbe
admissibility of evidence tf the'iise ' of thb -hopper..
boy_, anterior to the plaintitf's .alleged.invention, in
mills not spec'ifically mentioned in the notice, deperids
upon'the conWtkuctfon that may be given tothe Oth
section of the act of the 21st of February, 1793,.ch.'
"156; taken in connection 'ith the n6tice. This secti6n is gubliituted for the 6th sectibn of'the act of the
'10th 'of April, '1790, ch.' 34. 'The ofce of th'e se,,
a 'Grotiu -de J. B9.ac. P. U $. 'ch: 20, '.28'
VOL. II. "
C3.

9DCASS
8J8.

IN TH

UPREME COURT

tion, in each of these acts, is tvo fold: 1st. To state

what shall constitute a defence. 2d. To state the
himself cf
V. * manner in which, the defendant may ayail
any there
(if
exist
may
difficulties
Z-aton. it. And whatever
fiora the
arise
-ection,
be) in ,he construction of the
this was
That
combinatioa of this two-fold obje,'t.
oLvious. The
the object -of the section is petfe:tl
ailegition congeneral issue would he a denial of the
of 1793, and
act
the
templated by the 5th section of
had stopped
the 4th of the act of 17U0. If the acts
have had
there, it is manifest that the d~fendant could
the scope of
no defence, but what waz legally within
not have
would
the general issue. The 10th section
time, and the
availed him, becau-e, the limitation of
are
grounds for repealing a patent upon a scirefacias,
constitute
to
ought
,totally different from'those, which
a defence to the action. The patent may be opposed,
paitentee is not
in an action, upon the ground that the
rcpealed only
,the original irventor; but it can be
inventor.
trae
the
not
is
upon the ground that he
obtained)
Fraud (proof that it was surreptitiously
erior and
i .the necessary basis ihthe one case ; but
o'her. Neither
mistake is equally available 'in the
provisions in
the
of
could the defendant avail himself
merely d:are
the prior part of' the act: For, these
by
rectory, azfd th'ey terminate in the provision-made
the 5th section, which would have been conclusive.
the 5th.
The 6th section is, therefore, a proviso to
The 6th section of the act of 1790, made the patent
.rimafacie evidence only, which would have opened
the inquiry as to the truth of the invention. It'appears,
t en tkqat tlleobject of the prIoviso was, in the first place,

OP THE UNITED STATS,
to settle what should consitute a defence. These matters would nothave been within the scope of the general
issue, by the rules of pleading. They wotLld have presented the subject of a special plea in bar. The act,
therefore, at the same time provides, that they may
b'e given in evidence under the general issub. The
design, in this respeet, was to sate the Ilecessity of
special pleading an' the one hand, and on the otter, to
give a reasonable notice. Does, the lav require the
evidence to be set out? No ; -and yet; if surprise is
to be fully guarded against, this ought certainly to
be stated, in order that the plaintiffnmay prove that, it
is false, or proceeds from corrupt witnesses, &c.* Is' it
then necessary that al the particulars'should be 'given
the sta'te, county, township, town, stree.square, number of the house? The law does not r~quire it. What
certainty, then, is required in tie notice ? The answer
is obtained by PIcertaining the u'se ahd intention of
the section, whkli, were to save the necessity of spe cial pleading. What then" must be aileged in a spe,
cial plea? Not the evidence or facts, but the- matter
of defence, which may be that the plaintiff was not
the true inventor, but that the invention was before
hid supposed discovery. You must state what is
the ground and esgence of the defence, and nothing more ; all else is surplussage. E. G. That
the plaintiff Was not the true inventoi of the hopperboy, but the ame ,was in use, prior to his sup-.
posed discovery, at ti6 mill f .A. Now its -being
in use at the mill of 4. is not of the qssence of che
defence, for it is as good if used at the millf B.:
the essence is, that it was used before
Tho defend-

I
1811.

v.
n

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

99
1618.
Evans"

v.n
Eaton.:

ant then would be entitled to lay the place under a
t, and of course would not be obliged'to prove
'jidelic
,
it, but might prove any other. If, then, the law did
not mean to increase the difficulty of the defendant,
the same raf be done in a notice. Consider the in.
conveniences of a contrary practice. A machine ha.s
been used in a foreign country : the country- town,
be
apd place, may be -unknown. Shall I, therefore,
it is
deprived of the benefit of riy invention ? Again,
before
notice
thirty'days
known. I am bound to give
C6 bono, that I should mention
tial and no more.
that
a town or place in England ? "The intention is,
his
the. plaintiff shall come prepared to prove where
defendthe
disprove
to
invention was made, and not
kind
ant's evidence ; that he shall have notice of the
of defence iiitepded, in order that he may shape his.
case accordingly. If notice is given that the defendmachine
.ant will. give in evidence. that the plaintiff's
is no
this
vas, usedibefore. 'his supposed discovery,
that it was not
tice of special matter, tending fo prove-invented by him.. The law does not require a statement .or descriptign of the special matter, but notice
that spcial matter will be given in evidence,* tending
There is no reciprocity iin
-to prove certain facts.
the contrary rule. The declaration isgeneral ; it
does not' specify the., date of.the invention, the place
of thP invention, nor the evideice or .facts by which
the originality and truth of the invention are- to be
proved. Yet these are all extremely important to the
As
delendant, to enable him to prepare his defence.
state
to the. breach, it'is equallv general; it does not
e.gcept asa me.xe matter of form. by whiqh
t4a,,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

49

the plaintiff is not bound. It does not state the place.
1I
except by the very liberal description necessary for
"
the venue, but which is not at all binding.. And,. finalr .,
'ly, the rule contended for is impracticable,,ponsist -r Etqu0
ently with the purposes of justice; for it may, without.
any fault of the defendant, deprive him of thbe henest
of a' perfectly good defence, upon a,mere requisitiop of
form, which he cannot -possibly comply with. The. q-r
tice states that the use of the hopperboy at a n umbei. qf
mills, specially described by the state, cqmunty,. Ind
name of the proprietor, "and at sunctryother plaqes inm
Lg said state of Pennsvlvania, me state of Maryland,
and,elsewhere iri the Trlited S.tates." It is. ot alliged
nor could it'be, that the' defendant h'ad the know.lefgp
that would have enabl.ed him. tR extend the, sp..qip5
tion. Noi is it allegdl, that he qoud, laye, acqi.ii.
the knowledge, 'by any 6xertion he mizht have'Me-.
on the coritrary,, thb course he has taken is indiat.iveqof
perfectly fair in.ention. The exception is, that th de-,
fendant was.permittei to give evidence that th.e h.q perbpy "lhad been used at sundry other mills inenr..
sylvania," preGisely in the words of thb noti,
To
susiain this exception, then, the court must declce,tht
this cannot in any case be dpne. But if it capno! bp
shown, that in a single supppsable case, this would.
work injubtice and defeat the law, it is aufficient.
Now it is very clear, that in many. cases,. this maybe,.
precisely the state of the party's knowle.,dge, and-all hp.
can obtain, and it.may be precisely the state of the,evi"
dence.' Suppose i witness shQuld 'know that hop.
boys were used in sundry mills, but npt their nrecisp !a-

-

M

CASES fl4 THE SVPREMP, COURT,

Or, suppose he
cal situation, name of owner, &c.
the most evibore
that
should have seen a hopperboy
in a mill, or mills.
dent marks of having been used
Y.
question;
katon. The effect of such evidence is quite another
its credcourt;
the
for
are
its competency and relevancy
made
be
to
are
ibility, and the inferences of fac: that
would
supposition
from it, are for the jury. The-same
in a public work*
described
apply to its having been
the book, name
of
It is necessary to give fhe title
edition ? This may
of the author, and number of the
may have a witness
be'impracticable. The defendant
foreign country, and
who has seen the thing in us in a
or who has seen
not be able to give a single particular;
which he can give no
it described in a foreign work, of
if credited,, would be
further account. Such evidence,
have no benefit of
entirely conclusive; anA -yet he could
was impossible. But
it bedausj he had not 4one wvhat
these particulars, the deeven if the witness knows" all
him to disclose them
fendant has-no'means of conipelling
aim to es abbefore the trial. The rules of pleading
record, by giving the
lish a convenient certainty on the
furnishing evidence
party otice of what is alleged, and
instances, they fall
_nany
In
of *hat has been decided.
none do they go
in
short of this, their aivowedl design;
preventing surprise, they
beyondit. For the purpose of
no notice of particular
are wholly ineffectual; they give
The corrective of the
facts, of evidence of witnessds.
in the exercise
evil, if'evil there be, is to be fouid
of the general 'superintending authority of the court,
really be surprise or
applied to cases where there may
had been surreally
fraud. So in this case, if there
1818.
E~rans
"""n

OTflW -UNITED STATt$,
prise, (fraud is out of the question,) the court had the
power to grant a new trial. This power is an .mpl.y
suffidieat corrective': and it. existence affords a deeisive answer to the argument drawn from the possible
injustice that may be done-2. The exception to the
refusal to admit evidenceot doie - pyment, for. the use
oflicenses,,will be easily disposed of. Thefact to
be establishedon the one side, and disprpved on the
.pther, was, that the hopperboy was in use before the
alleged invention or discovery of Evans.. The evidence offered had no bearing"whalever uponthe -ques .
tion of fact. If believed, it went no farther than to
show, that those who had paid, thought it best to pay.
a decision that might*be equally prudent, whether the
fact was, or was not, as allegecl. Such testimony
would be more objectionable than the opinion- of the
witness ; for it would be only presumptive proof of
opinion, without the, possibility of examiniig its
grounds. .As opinion, it would be inadmissible;..as
evidenceofop'niort, it would be still more objectionable:-3., The plaintiff's patent can only be con'sidered
in one of three points of view. .1st. As a' patent for
the improvement in the art of manufacturi3g flour;
that is, for the combination. 2d. As a patent forthe combination, and also for the several maohihes;
that is, a joint an-1 several patent. 3d. As a patent simply for the several machines. 'It is very'olear that the
patent itself is. for the combination only; though. it is,
equally cear, that by, the terms of the law, ne night
have obtained a pafent for the whork and also for the
,severd.-Parti. Thit .this is the necessary construction

49
18,p8.
:
.v.

Ezgon.

•

CASES IN THE SUPRIME COURT.
iSLS.
Evqns.
Ev0"
Eaton.

of the patent, is plain from the patent itself, taken in connection with the gct of thle 21st of January,
O1808,'6h. 117. The act authorizes a.patent to be is
sued for his "imiproveraentsin the art of manufacturing
11bur, and'in'the several inachines, &c. The matters
are plihly difereht. They are the subject of ,is"tinct patents, to be obtained 'in the "manner and
ch. 156.,
fodrm" prescribed by the act of 1793,
Evans
put
"Thebbject of the special act, 'was to
not
,pon the stin6 footing as if his former patrnt had
'lenisisuea ; but it did not mean to dispense with any
of the requisites of the general law. With the gener.not
'a" requisite (that he was the inventor) it could
dispens.; the constitution did not permit it. By the
generki'law, mrprbvement in an art,, and improvement
objects. This
Jn a nachinef are distinct patentable
mapatent 's 6nly for the improvement in the art of
nifacturing flbur, and thi .recital of 'the special act,,
all
and'tlie woras "which" and "said" do not at
by
operated
fie1 'it. It is trUe, it is an improvement
The
means of the iachines, buz not exclusively.
result may'be ascured, without securitig the nieans.
receivTfili' patent was granted t6 the plaintiff; Was
to
according
be
to
by Min ; and must be presumed
i
he
:hbis apprlication and his oath. The oath 'is, that
the true inventor of the "inpovement above specias
fied ;" which rerm is applied in the specification,
the
said
is
it
But,
in the patent, only to the art.
or en-.
specificMidn is a part of the' patent, and limits,
Story, 'ih
lUrges'if, as the case may be. Mr. Justice
the case *hich lhas bqen cited, only 'says, that the spe-

OF TAE UNIEID STAkTES.
I8$
cification may control the generality of the patent;a.
But the specification, in the case now before the court,
v.
does not claim the machines. If the patent was for
a aombination, the plaintiff's action was gone; he could Eaton.
not maintain- it against a person using one of the machines.. If the -patint was for the combination, and also for the-several machines, that is-a joint and" severalpatent, then the patentee might proceed upon it as. theone or the other, accordingto.the nature ofthe-allege&invasion. If he proceeded upon it for A breach of the
right to the combination, he- must show the originailty.
of invention, and might be defeated b" opposite -proof"
If for a breach of the right. to any one of'the machines,
he might be - defeated by, showing that hewas not the
original inventor of the mitchine.. So if it tie consider,
ed a several patent, that is, as if he had five distinct
patents.. But, in no-conceivable caseI can' he stand upon any but. one 6f these three grounds, nor claim-to.
have the, benefit of a larger, or eveA.of-a.different patent. -4. From-this analysis, which-is~neqessary to pre,.
v~nt confasion, we-come to, inquire into the na ture.of
tbke case presented to the court for .4ecision, ,and to
wh~lh, thp charge was to'be applied ;,premnising, lgt,
That nofexceptioncan be taken tovhat the co .T.'vdid,
not give in charge to the jury; anil .2dUy., T#t-no excepti6n. can be taken -tp, an opinip, however, erroneoi* that hW, no ,bearing,,upon thh iJsq -to .be deoided
by thejury. It i ,appnreat.froqp th,.record, that.t
action of thew plqintiff ws--founded .upon the "sIegeda Whittemore v. Cutter; I:Gflfrt?7.-64
Vol.. IL

98CASES

IN THE SUPREME ,COURT

use, by the defen'dant, of a machine, called a hopper151I.
Sboy, of which the plaintiff claimed to be the inventor;
that the'evidence on both sides applied to this allegaV.
Eaton. tion, and-to this alone;' the plaintiff claiming to be
the inventor, -and the' defendant denying it. The
charge of the court noticed the several arguments that
had 'been used at the bar, and examined the general qpestion as to the charactei of the patent; upon
whicli however, as it had not been discussed, no
opinion was Igiven. This is clebtr;' for if an optnion
had been expressed, it must have been that the tction
was not maintainable. Nothing short of that would
tave been material Bat the court, left the case. to
the jury, - as' 6f an actiori that was maintainable, andiristructed them -as to the pritciples by which it wat to
be decided; vhich nezatives the conclusion of any
opitiion htving -bee& givbn, that the 'etion was not
H the -defendant had requited the
-maintaihiable.
c,,trt' P arge'that the action was not Maintainab!d,
and they had, har~ed that it was, ot' declined, to
1
charge' at"alf, he woul*,have hed' ground, o exc 14.
tion. But the plaintiff' 66not corn lain, beeause- h
has whaot Is equivalent tb a- decivioa iif. his 1iour-'ac, I. c. j.)i A- Y. i9."
51. Tht,itatute of- Jabes; (and truedi'tentofs 6F
first
the
t'cftifined&monop llts
t
n
bet6re . O&I
used
manufacttres t6t knnh, or.
agfd-L
oukti
died:and sevendy' yegte had elseed 4htnt
ew;, commerce and the oit had, made sudli adlinv
ce4 such, facilities 'ba been- created, fort th6 (UlfftirIl
of- knowledge, that every thing known by use, or
~bo),.nigbi be considered, as common
described i
property. It would have. bhen strange to adopt wdlf-.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
.
ferent -principle. The act of .'congress does not. -It
Evauj
any
respect
this
in
is a mist'ake t suppose there is
v.
difference between the act of congress and the act, of
:
Eaton.
other
the
parliament. One says "useful" inventions,
CCnew aid useful ;" but both have the expressions "not
used or known, before." A patent can only be upon
an allegation that {he applicant has invented sometbing
new and useful. Its novelty may certainly be questioned ; perhaps its usefulness. But where the defence is,
that the'thing was known or used before, is it vecessa.
ry to prove the usefulness of the thing so known or
used? The act does not require it; nor is there any
good reason why the patentee should be permitted to
controvert it.
Mr. Harper, in reply, insisted, 1. That the court
below had erred in admitting testimony of the use of
the plaintiff s machine in mills not specified in the
noti.e. The statute was not framed with a view to
the benefit of the defendant alone. 'rhe notice to be
given, is not that vague, indistinct, general noticeI
which is set up on the other side, It must be an eff ctual, useful notice; such a. notice as may put the
patentee on his guard, and enable him to see what
are the precise grounds of defence. It must be mbr6
specific'than a mere transcript of the particular class
of grounds of- defence, such as suppression of parts,
The circumstances of the tmW,
redundancy, &c.
the, place when and where used, and by what per.
sons, are essentially necessary in order to enable the
patentee' to meet the defence. The burthe. of proof
is, in effect,. thrown upon the patentee ; and the liw

O.ASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT
intedded that he should, meet it -fairly. *Such a notice as that given in this case would, not be good, if
:Evans
put into the form of a special plea. The degree of
T.
Eat'oj. certainty required in a .lea, in the statement of the
time and place when -and where material facts have
happened, is one of the most difficult questions of the
law.'; but- these circumstances 'must always be laid,
and must be proved as laid, whenever it is.essential to
enable the other party to maintain his case. rhere
is a distinction betiieen the matter of defence and the
evidence by which' it'is to be nidintained. A notice
of the particulars of the evidence is not required, but
of the time and place where the former 'use -of 4he
machine in- question occurred. Nor is' this unreason-.
able ;' for 'it is highly improbable that any body would
be able. totestify as to the minute particulars of in
invention- without being able to- remember in what
wdrk;: Ike had .-seen it described, "or to state in what
place and ,at what time he 'badseen it'used.-2. The
special act for fhe plaintiff 's relief is a distinct, -substafitive:'in iependent grant, Jeclaring 'the phiintiff to
be the, original inventoi, and as such, entitled to t 'patent. It. contains no rdference to the general patent
law, nor does i reseive ahy right in others to contest
The defendant,
the -origiiality 'of his.-in'ehtion.
therefore, cannot say that 'the plaintiff is not the inventor, though he may deny that he-has violated the
p.laitiff-s rights as inventor. Congress is not-cvonfined by the cons titution to any particular mode of de,termining the fact who are inventois or authors. It
is true, a patdnt or -copyright can only be granted to
An inventor or author; lut the .originality of the in180t
"

mW

THE UNITE.
MSTATgM.

•vention 'or ,authorshil may be determined "by 'eft- 438M&
gress itself; upon such testimony as it deems. suli- '
'
cient ; or by an administrative act, 'by the decision of
I.
-some board br executive 'officer'-; or, lastly,' by a'-judi. .
'cial -investigation - according: as the legislative'."wiJl
'may prescribe either of these several moileg. The
,act of wrliament. 15 Geo. 31 for the- relief-of Watt
and Boulton, *he inveators of the impioveil steamengine, and extending theterm of their patent'for
twenty-five, years, contained an-express provision that
'every objection in law competent against the .patent,'
ishq'uld be competefit against the. act, "to all -inteats
'and purposes, except so far as relates'to the terd t'reb
granted."'a The act of congress 'for the relief of Oili'ver Evans coritains no -such provision.
The con elusion, therefore, is, that the legislature' meant to
zquiet him in his claim, after he had so long enjoyed it, and in -consideration of his peculiar' -ierits,
and of 'Iis' former pateht having been vacated for
,informalty.-3. The court below instructed the ju'.,
xy 'that-the patent was not for any one machine, but
for the combined 'effect of the tvho]e ; though they
concluded by leaving it upozr the prior, use, still' the
intimation that the action could not be maintained,
even though the prior- use was not proved,."did n6t
leave the fact to the jury free from bias. Though.
not a positive direction to the jury to find for the defondant, it had the effect of a 'nonsuit. 'The wishes
of the grantee, and the intention of the grantor, t?6th
extended, as well, to a patent for the sever'l machines,

a Hornblower v. Boulton, 8 71. R: 95. 97.

OASES IN THE SUPREMSE COURT

ti.
r
Eaton.

as to a patent for, the combined effect of the whole
The word " improvement," though in"the, singular num.
ber, extends not only to the plaintiff's improvement in
the'art of manufacturing ilour but to his improvement
in the several machines by means of which the operaions 6f the art are conducted. This was a platent for
an Iimprovement an fjie particular machine in question,
and not for its original invention, In this respect it is
like that of Watt and. Boulton for their improvement
9n the steam-engine.-- 4 . The prior, use, which is to
4efeat a pntent, ought to he a public use. 'The defence
set up, under the bth section of thp patent law of
.here1793, ch.'156, was, that the patentee was not the original discoverer, and.that the thing had been in use,
&q., But how else could it be shown that he was not
the discover- r, but by showing that it had before been
ii public uge? A mere secret furtive use would not
disprove the fact of his' being the original discoverer.
If this were so, then the art of printing and gun-powder
were not invented in Europe, because they had been
before Vsed in a sequestered corner of the globe,
like China. But there is a distinction between a
fitst discovery and an original discovery. The art of
printing, was originally discovered in Germany, thou'gh
it was first invented, in China. So the ,plaintiff would
not cease to 'be the original inventor of the hopperboy, even if it had been proved that another similar
machine had-been efore privately used in a single
mill, It ought, therefore, to have been left to the jiiry to find for the plaintiff, if they believed that the use
was a secret use,

OF THE'UNITED STATES.
Mr. Chief Justice MARsHALiL dblivered the opinion

If*1

of the court.
E~ans
In this case exceptions weie taken in the circuit
Eaton.
court, by the co.unsel for the -plaintiff in error,
March7th.
lat. To the opinion of the court, in admitting teti*,

mony offered by the defendant in 'that court.
2d. Totits opinion in,rejecting testimony offered by
the plaintiff in that court.
3d. To the charge delivered by the judge to the
jury.
"Whatis -suffUnder the 6th section of the act for the promotioti cient notice un
of useful arts, and to repeal the act heretofore made der the 6th*cc
for that purpose, the defendant pleaded the general tent law of
1793,ch.156,of

issue, and gave notice that he would prove at the trial, the prior use
of the thing
t td
that the improved hopperboy, for the use of which, pateted.
without license, this. suit was instituted, had been
used previous to the alleged invention Qf the said Evans
in several places, (which were specified in the notice,)
or in some of fheih, "and also at sundry other places
in 'Pennsylvania, Maryland, and elsewhere in the Unit d States." Having given-evideace as to-some of the
places-specified in the notice, the defendant offered' evidence as to some other places not ,sitecified. Thi' ev"
idenwe %asobjected to by the plaintiff, but admitted by'
the court; to which admission the plaintiff's counsel
excepted,"
'hue- 6th-geption of the dat appeafg to be drawn- on,
the idea, that the diefendant".ouldnot be-at liberiy to
contesv the-valiflity of 'the' pthtdbt on the ge*eral, issue.
It thererore ihtendi" t&- relieVb tlle'deenddnt fdfni (hd'
diicultiesi of ,Piniig, 'whbn - it allows him. to give -irr.

ICASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT

evidence, matter which does affect the *patent. But
1816.
*~'~"the notice is directed for the security of the plaintiff,kan,
and to protect him akainst that surprise to which he
,.
Eaton. might be exposed, from an Unfair use of this privilege.
Reasning merely on the words directing this notioe,
it might be difficult to defiie, with absolute precision, what it ought to inelude, and what it :might
omit. There are,'however, circumstances in the act
which. may ha've Some influence6on this point. It has
been already observed, that the notice is substituteF
lor a special.plea; it is farther to be observed, that it
is a substitute to'*hich the defendant is not obliged
to resort. The notice is to be given only when it is,
intended 'to offer the 'special mrntter in evidence on
the general issue. The defendant is -not obliged to
pursue this course. 'He miay still plead specially,.and
then, the plea is the only notice which the- plaintiff can
claim. If" then, the defendant, may give in evidence'
on a special plea the prior use of the machine at
places not specified in his plea, it would seem tp follow that he may give .in evidence its use at places&
not specified in his notide" It is not believed that a
plea would b'e defective, which did not sthte the mills
in which the machinery alleged to be previously used
W",.Place'd.
But there is still another view of this subject,
whidlh. deserves- to be considered. The section whirh"
directs this notice, also directs that if the special matter stated in the section ,be proved, ".judgment shall
be rendered for the defendant, with costs and the patent shall be- declared void." The notice might beintended not only forl the information of the plaintiffr

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
but fur the purpose of spreading on the record* the
cause for which the patent was avoided. This object
v."
is accomplished by a notice which specifies the particular-matter to be proved. The ordinary powers of.the Eaton.
court are sufficient to prevent, and will, undoubtedly,
be so exercised, as to prevent the patentee from being.
injured by the sur.prise.
on
This testimony having been adtnitted, the plaintiffTestinony
the part of the
that
plaintiff,
of whose prior -use the
offered to prove that
of
persons,
• the persons,
the defendant had gtvenkwhoseiorusn
of. the improved hopperboy
afenane
testimony, had paid the .plaintiff for licenses to use Mfthe
given evifinproved hopperboy in their mills since his patent. Thishad
dence,hadpaid
testimony was rejected by the court, on the motion Oftheplaintifffoi
licenses to use
the defendant,-and to-this opinion of' the cburt, also,his machine,
oughtnotto
the plaintiff excepted.
absolutcly rejected, though
entitled
The testimony offered by the plaintiff was
very
_enzitledto
to verylittle weight, but oughf not to have been abso -4tle weighL
lutely rejected. Connected with other testim6ny, and
under some circumstances, even the opinion of a party
m~y be worth something. It is, therefore, -in' such P.
case. as-this, deemed mor-e'safe to permit'it to go to the
jury, subject, as all' testimony is, ' to the animadversion of the court, than entirely to exclude it.
We come next to consider the charge delivered to
the jury.
*The errors alleged in this charge ruay he considered
rnder two heads :
1st. In construingthe patent to be solely for the general result produced by the combination of all 4he mathinery, and not for the several improved machines, as
well ai for the gen~ral result.
2d. That the jury must find for the'defendaft, if they
65
VL. III.

CASES IN THE SUPREME CO'RT

O0
Itt.
E ans
,.

Eaton.

should be of opinion, that t,he hopperboy was in useprior to the inveition of the improvement thereon by Oliver Evans.
The construction of -he patent must certainly depen&
on the words of the instrument. 'But vlere, as in thii
case, the words are- ambiguous, these may be circumstances whicb ought to have great ififluence in expounding them. The intention of the parties, if that intention can be collected from sources which the principJes of law permit us to explore, are entitled' ta
great consideration. But Def6re we proceed to this
investigation, it may not be improper to notice the exlent of the authority under which this grant was
issued.

is
The authority of the executive to make this grant,
and from the act
patent law,
iatetenrltatn
from the general,
derivedv
dthe
p
r
g
f
t
n
O
ra
Evans.
Oliver
of
ak~r imprnreodiffe- for the relief
mnts
improvewhether
ratt niacbines lawn alone, a doubt might well, arise,
call be inclu- me ts on different machines could regularly be compreded inthesanic
toliended in the same patent, so as to give' a right to the
pten
right'to
Kzvea tsoa
several exclusive use of the several machines separately, as
CXCIuM
tutse of
iaetchines se- well as a right to the exclusive use of those niachines
paey as inAn
And if such a patent would be irregexcn
aasthe combination.
well
machines
tlosive
tliose
use oflr n.ar it 'vould certainly furnish an argument of no inin combina- considerable weight against the construction. But the
tion?
..
act "act
for the relief of Oliver Evans," entirely removes
be' thethis
bowever
may
forthereiiefoftis doubt. That act authorizes the secretarv of state
wh- .

the
issue a patent, granting to the said Oliver Evans
full and exclusive right, in his invention, discovery,
and improvements,in the art of manufacturing fiur, and

"tOlive Evnto

k

se.

0F THE UNITED STATES.
1618.
-n the several machines which he has invented,.discovered, improved, and appli'd to that purpose.
Of the authority, then, to make this patent co-extensive with the coristruction,for wvhich the plaifitiff'scoun- Eatoa
sel conteads, there can he no dohubt,
The next object of inqcuiry is, the intention of the Intention of
the paries to
partiesso far as it mny bfe collected from sources tohe. patent "o.E
which itis allowable to resort.
The parties are the governkaent, acting by its agents,
apd Oliver Evans.
The intention of the government. may be collectedfrom the "act for the relief of Oliver .Evins." That
act not only-confers the authority to issue the grant,
but, expresses the intention of the legislature retspecting its extent. It . may fairly be inferred from
it, that the legislature intended, the patent .to include
both the general result, -and the particular improved
machines, if such should be the wish of 'he applicant. That 'the executive officer intended to make,
the patent co-extensive with the appfication. of 0ber Evans, and with the special act, is to be inferred
from the reference to both in the patent itself. If,
therefore, it shall be satisfactorily shown from his ap,
plication, to have been tne intention of Oli~er Evans
to obtain a patent including both objects, that must be
presumed to have been also the intentionof. the grantor.
The first evidehce cf the intention of Oliver Evans is
furnished by the act for his relief. The fait presumption is, that it conforms to his wishes ; at least, that it
does not transcend them.
The second, is his petition to the secretary of statev

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
181t.

Iv
,aton.

which speaks of his'having discovered certain 'useful
improvements, and prays a patent for them, "agreeably
to,the act of congress, entitled, an act for the relief of
Oliver Evans." "This application is for a patent.co-extensive with the act.
This intention is further manifested by his specification. It is not to be denied, that a part of this specification would indicate hn intention to consider the
combined operation of all his machinery as a -single
"improvement, for which he solicited a patent. But
the vhole taken together, will not admit of this exposition. The several machines are described with that
distinctness which would be used by a person intending to obtain a patent for each. In his number 4
which contains the specification of the drill, he asserts
'his claim, in terms, to the principles, and to. all the machines he had specified, and adds, "they may all be
united and dombined in one flour-mill, to produce ,my
:improvement in thb art of manufacturing flour complete, or they maybe used separately for any of the purposes specified and allotted to them, or to produce my
improvement in part, according to the eircuinstances
'of the case."
Being entitled by law to a patent for all and Iach
of his discoveries ; considering :himself, 'as he avers
in his specihcation and affirmation, as the inventor of
each of these improvements; understanding, as he d'6lares he did, that they might be used together so as
to proluce his improvement complete, or separately,
so as to produce it in part ;-nothing can be more improbable,, han that Oliver Evans intended to obtain a
-patent solely for their combined operation. His atfi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
mAation, which is annexed to his specification, confirms;
11M
this reasoning. To the -declaration that he is the in- Evht
ventor of these improvements, he adds, "for which he
solicits a patent."'
I
With this conviction of the intention with Which it
was framed, the instrument is to' be xamined.
The patent begins with a recital, -that Oliver Evans conmtetion
had alleged himself to be the inveritor,, of a new and of
theE.atnt
to O.E
useful improvement in the art of manufacturing flbur,
&c. by the means of several machines, for a description
of which reference is made to his specification.
It will nbt be denied, that if the allekation of Olivet
Evans was necessarily to be understood as conformifii
to this recital, if our knowledge of it was to be derived
entirely from this source, the, fair congtruction wofild
be, that his app!ication was singly for the exclusive
right to that improvement which was produced by the
combined operation of his machinery. But in construing these terms, the court is not confined to their most
obvious import. The allegation made -by Oliver
Evans, and here intended to be recited, is in his petition to the-secretary of state. That petition is embodied in, and becomes a p:irt of the patent. It explains
itself, and controls the words of reference to it. His
allegation is not "that he b.hs invented a new and useTul improvement," but that he has discovered' certai
-useful improvements. Thewords used by the depaitment of state in reciting this- allegation, must thdn be
expounded by the allegation itself, which is. made i
'art of the patent
The recital proceeds, "which improvement has hot
been known," &c. These words refer -clearly to
,.

510
1IM
%
V.
ZF.404

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
the improvement first mentioned and alleged in the
petition of Oliver Evans, and are of course to be controlled in like manner with the antecedent wor'l4 1y
that petition. This part of the recital is concluded by
adding, that Oliver Evans has affirmed, that he does
verily belieye himself to be the true invettor or discoverer of the said improvement.
But the affirmation of Oliver Evans, like his petition,
is embodied in the grant, and must, of course, 6xpound the recital of it. That affirmation is, that he
does verily believe himself to be the true and original
inventor of the imnrcvcrrctsccntained in his specifition.
In every instance, then, in which the word improvement is used in the sifngulir number throughout
the part of recital of this pateni, it is used in reference
to a paper contained in, the body of the patent,
which corrects the term, and shows it to be inaccurate.
The patent, still by way of recital, proceeds to add,
Ccand agreeably to.the act of congress, entitled 'an act
for the relief of Oliver Evans,' which authorizes the
secretary of state to secure to him, by patent, the exchsive right to the use of such improvement in the ai t
of manufacturing flour an I meal, and in the- several
macbines which he has discovered, improved, and applied to that purpose ; he has paid into the treasury, &c.
and presented a petition to the secretary of state,' signifying a desire of obtaining an exclusive property in
the said improvement, and praying that a patent may be
granted for that purpose."

OF THE UNITtb STATES."
M10
To what, do the words ."said iimprovement" relate?
The answer which has been given at the bar is entie Y
dotuct., To tle improvement mentioned in the statute and in the, petition, to both of which .direct refetenee is mader ;But in.the statute, and in the-petition,
the *Ord used is "improvements,"'in the plural. The
ptttent, therefore, obviously affixed to the word im.provement, in the singular, the same sense in which
h6 plural is employed, both in the statute and in tlie
petition. We are compelled from the whqle context
so to construe the word in every place in RThich it is
sed in the recital, because it is constantly employed
Vfth express reference to the' act of congress, or to
s6rnb °document embodied in the 'patent, in each of
which the pleural is used,
When, then,.the words "said iprovement ' are useld as a term of grant, they refer to'the words of the
recital, which" hav:e been already noticed, and must be
construed in the same sense. This construction ii
rendered the more necessary by the subsequent words,
which refer for a description of, tho improvement
to the schedule. It also derives some weight from"
the words "according to law," which are annexdd to the words of grant. These w6ds can refer onl to the general patent law, and to the " act 'for
the relief of Oliver Evans." These acts, taken together, seem to require that th6 patent should'. conform to the specificatiop, affirmation, and petition of
the applicant.
It would seem as if the claim of -Oliver Evans was
rested at the circuit court, on the principle, that a
grant for an improvement, by the combined. operatio a

H

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
14W
'
T.
*Ato]n.

of all the machinery, necessarily included a right to the
distinct operation of each part, inasmuch as the whole
comprehends all its parts. After very properly rejaztiiag this idea, the judge appears to have considered the
department of state, and the patentee, as having proceeded upon it in making out this patent. He supposed the intention -to be, to convey the excl ive right
in the parts as well as in the whole, by a grant' of the
whole; but as the means used are in law incompetent
to produce the effect, he construed the grant according
to his opinion of its legal operation.
There is great reason in this view of the case, and,
this court has not discarded it without hesitation. But
as to the grant, with the variou3 documents which form'
a part of it, would be contradictory to itself; as these
apparent contradictions are all reconciled by considering the word "improvement?. to be in the plural instead of the singular num'er; as it is apparent that
this construction gives to the grant its full effecf; and
thi.t the opposite construction would essentially defeat
it, this court has, after much consideration and doubt,
determined to adopt it, as the sound exposition of the
instrument.
The second error alleged in the charge, is in directing the jury to find for the defendant, if they should
be of opinion that the bopperboy was in use prior to
the improvement alleged to.be made thereonby Oliver
Evans.
This part of th charge seems to be founded ow
the opinion, that i1 the patent is to be considered as
.4grant of the exclusive use of distinct improvements.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
it i a grant sor the hopperboy itself, and not ior an
f818.
improverait on the hopperboy.
F-ansl
The counsel for the plaintiff contends, that this part
v.
of the charge is erroneous, because, by tte " act for the Eaton.
relief of Oliver tvans," Congress has itself decided
that he is the inventor of the machines for which he
solicited a patenf, and has left that point open to judicial inquiry.
This court is not of that opinion. Without inquir- Qusre, Whether congress
ing whether Congress, in the exercise of its power can decid-ethe
that an in
to secure for limited times, to authors and* inventors, fact,
dividualoris inan
the exclusive right to their respective writings and dis- author
Vntor so asto
precfude judi-

coveries," thay decide the fact that an individual is an c,alinquirinauthor or inventor, the court can never presume Con- to
ity theoriginal
of the augress to have decided that question in a general act, thorship or inBe
the words of which do not render such consTrnction un- vention?
thisas it may,
Ideddh
this
require
avoidable. The words of this act do not
construction'. They do not grant to Oliver Evans thelactinthoca"
- of O.E.
exclusive right to, use certain specified machines ;. but
the-exclusive iight to use his invention, discovery, and
improvements; leaving the question of invention and
improvement open to investigation, under the general
patent law.
The plaintiff has also contended, that it is not necessary for the patentee -to show himself to be the
first inventor or discoverer. That the law is satisfied
by his having invented a machine, aithough it may
have been previously discovered by some other per
son.
Without a critical 'inquiry into the accuracy -with
which the term invention or discovery niay be applied to any, other than the first inventor, "the court
VOIL. IIL
66

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

614,

cortsiders, this question as comple'el Seci!ed by the
6th setion of the general 'patent act. Thit declares,
that if the thing was not originalty discovered by the
patentee, but had been in use, or had been de-

1818.
I
Evans
v.
Eaton.

If the thing sccured by pa-scribed

in some

ddsoe~jdket
tent has been
in use orbe-poe d discovery

scribed in

anterior to the supb
be
of the patentee, judsient shall
public

work,

a rendered for the defendant, and the patent declared

work
public
the void."
anterior
supposedto dis-

"originally discovered," to
still
teto.vid, th p
olaine or limited by the subsequent words,
th~ " exrlm~
whether
isr od,
tent
.atenteehd a if the thing had been in -use, or had been described in
nwledge of
the
this previousa public work, anterior to the supposed discovery,
u -ordescripno
had
patentee
tionor nbts patent is void. It may be that the
knowledge of this previous use or previous description; still 'his patent is void : the law supposes he
may have known it; and the charge of the judge,
which mnist be taken as applicable to the testimony,
goes n 6 farther than the law.
Admitting the

overy,te p

words

The real inquiry is,' does tb6 patent of Oliver
has discoverrd ? If
patent to the Evans comprehend more than he
has 'found
0.2; in enti-

tled under his

i sfor the whole. hopperboy, the jury
Machines - that this machine was in previous use. If it embraces
which he has
be set
invented, and oply his improvement, then the verdict must

the sevra tit
of
oxesaive

6f his smprov
onuS on ma aside.
daul disover

od.

are not
The difflctlties which embarrass this inquiry
less thai those which were involved, in the first point.
Ambiguities are still to be explkined, and contradictions
to be reconciled.
The patent itself, construed witlhout reference to
the sohedtle and other 'doeumeftts to which it refers.,
and which are incorporated in it, would be a grant
a' single improvement; but construed with those

OF THE UNITED STATMS,
daeuments, It has been determi ned to be a grant of the
188.
several improvements whith he has made-in the E'vansi
v.
machiies enumerated'in his specification.' But thp
Eaton.
grant is confined to improvements. There is -no ex
pression in it "hich extends to the whole of any one of
the'machines which are enumerated in his specificatian
or petition. The difculty growsolut of -the comjplexity and am'iguity of the specification and petition.
His schedule states his first principle to be the operation of his machinery on the meal from its being
ground'until it is bolted. He adds "this pfinciple I
apply by various machines, which I have invented,
constructed, and adapted, to the purposes hereafter
specified,"
His second principle is the application of the power
that moves the mill to his machinery.
The application .ofthese principles, he says, to-manufacturing flour, is what'he claims as his invention 'or
improvement in the art.
He asserts himself to be the inventorsof the machines
and claims the application of these principles, to the
improvement of the process 6f manufacturing flour, and
other purposes, as his invention and improvement in
the art.
The schedule next proceeds to describe the different
machines as improved, so as to include in the description the whole. machine, without distinguishing his
improvement from the machine -as - it existed previous
thereto ; and in his fourth number he says, "I claim
the exclusive right to the princil,les, and to all the-ma:
chines above specified, and for all the uses-and purposes specified, as not having been heretkofore known or,
used before I discovered them,"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Itthe opinion of the court were to be formed on the
[18 18.
alone, it would be difficult to deny that the ap
Evan 'schedule
-plication of bliver Evans extended to all the machines
V.
Eaton. itdescribes. But the -schedl'le is to be considered in
connection with the other documents incorporated in
the patent.
The affirmation which is annexed to it avers, that
he is the inventor, not of the machines, but of the improvements herein above specified.
In his petition he states himself to have [discovered
certain useful irmprovements, applicable to the art of
manufacturing flour, a-nd prays a patent for same;
that is, for his improvements, agreeably to the act of
congress, entitled, "an act for the relief of Oliver
Evans." After stating the principles as in his schedule, he adds, "fhe machinery consists of an improved
elevator, an improved conveyor, an improved hopperboy, an improved drill, and an improved kiln'

dryei."
Although, in his specification, he claims a right to
-the.whole machine, in his petition he only asks a patent for. the improvements in the machine. The dis.
tinction between a machine,, and an improvement ona machine, or an improved machine, is too clear for
them to be confounded with each other.
The act of congress, agreeably fo which' Evans petitions for a patent, authorizes the secretary of state
to issue one, for his improvements in the art of manufacturing flour, "and inthe several machines which he
has inventeddiscverej, irrprpved,ind applied to tha t
."
purp

OP THE UNITED STATES.

51

In conformity with, this act, this schedule, and this
1818.
petition, the secretary of state issues his patent, -which, Evans
in its terms, embraces only'impiovements. Taking the.
v.
whole together, the court is of opinian, that the patent Eaton,
is to be constructed as a grant of the general result of
the whole machin*ery, and of the improvement in each
machine. Great doubt existed whether the words of
the grant, which are expressed to be for an improveme-nt or improvements only, should be understood as
purporting to be a patent only for improvements; or
should be so far controuled by the specification and petition, as to be considered as a grant for the machine
;as improved, or in the words of the.schedule and petition,
for "an improved elevator, an improved conveyor,
an improved hopperboy, an improved drill, and an
improved kiln dryer."
The majority of the court
came at length to the opinion, that there is no substantial difference, as they are used in this grant,
whether the words grani a patent for an improvement
?u a machine, or a patent for an improved machine:;
since the machine itself, without the improvement,
would not be an improved machine. Although I.did
not concur in this opinion, I can perceive no inconvenience from the construction.
It is, .then, the opinion of this court, that "Oliver
Evans may claim, under his patent, the exclusive
use of his inventions and improvements in the art of
manufacturing flour and meal, and in the several
machines which he has invented, and in his improvements on ma).hifies previousl' discoverd.

CASES IN THP, SUJPREML COURT
1818.
419yang
v.
Eaton.

In all cases where his claim is for, an improvement
on a machine, it will be encricu ent on him to show the
extent of his improvement, so that a person understanding the subject may comprehend distinctly in what
i

'Where the t consists.
the
E. Some doubts have been entertained respecting
ctlmofO.
is for an im .
both
as
.
States,
United
the
machin, be
aprovement
onjurisdiction of the -courts of

plaintiff and defendant are citizens of the sume
improvement
tate. The 5th section of the act to promote the proextent of his sae
inan intelligigress of useful orts, which gives'o every patentee a
ble manner.g
States,,in
right to sue in a circuit court of 'the United
section
3d
the
by
The aetf'rthe case his rightsbe violated, is repealed
o
relief of 0. h.
the acis engrafted on of the act ot 1800, ch. 179. (xxv.) which gives
the general pa .
a
vhere
States,
United
tentlaw, so astion in the circuit courj of the
the
to
or
to give him a
"pursuant" to that act,
right to sue in patent is granted
.irtuitat for the promotion of useful arls. This pjttent, it
e
the defendntihas been said, is granted, not in parsuance of either of
may be a citia
act "for the relief of
zenofthesamethose acts, "ut in pursuance of the
opinion, that the
of
is
court
this
But
With h'tmOliver Evans."
on the
act for the relief of Oliver Evans is,engrafted
that
and
arts,
useful
of
geieral act for the. promotion
jurisThe
the tatent is issued in pursuance of both.
diction of the Court is, therefore, sustained.
the juAs the charge delivered in the circuit court to
judgthe
ry differs in some respects from this opinion,
ment rendered in ,the court is reversed and annulled,
with dii ecand the cause remanded to the circuit court,
to proceed
and
novo,
tions to award a venire facias de
'therein according to law.

must ahow the the

Judgment reversed.

OF THEXlUMtTED STATES.
This cause came on to le heard on the 1814.
transcript of the recmid.of the ciicuit court for the disc Evaa4
"v ,
trict of Pennsirvania, and was iirged by counsel. On
v.
consider aiion whereof, this court is-of opinion, that 1 aton.
there is error in the prpeeedings of the said circuit
court in this, that the said court rejected testimony*
.which ought to have been admitted; and also in this,
that in the charge delivered to the jury,, the* opiuioGi is
expressed that the patent, on which this suit was instituted, conveyed to Oliver Evans only an exclusive
right to his Improvement in"manufacturing -flour 'and
meal, produced by the general combination of all his
machinery, and not to his improvement in the several
machines applied to that'purpose ; and also, that th&
said Oliver Evans was not'entitled to recover, if the
hopperboy, in hig deciaranorn mentioned, had been in
use previous' to his. alleged djscovery, Therefore, it
is considIered by this court, that the judgment of the
circuit court be reversed and annulled, and that the
cause be reman-.led to the said circuit court, witIT airecJUIGr.mENT.

tions to award a venirefacias de novo.^,
a See Appindix, NOTE lI.

