assR

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818. correction of errors in this case, be, and the same is
%a
~
heieby affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate
Unit. States
. Iof six per centum per annum on the amount of tne
Bevans. judgment of the said court, for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors of the state of NewYork, to be computed from the time of the rendition
of the judgment of the said court for the trial of
impeachments and correction of errors of the state of
New-Yoik.

(CONSTITUTIONAL

-The UNITED

STiTES

LA w.)
V. BE-ANs.

Admitting that the 3d article of the constitution of the United State%,
which declares that "the judicial power shall extend to all cases of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," vests in the United States
exclusive jurisdiction of all such cases, and that 'amurder committed in the waters of ikstate where the tide ebbs and flows, is a came
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; Congress lave not, in the
8th section of the act of 1790, ch. 9; ." for the punishment of certain offences against the United States," so exercised this power as
to confer on the courts of the United States jurisdiction over such
murder.
Quere, whether courts of common law have concurrent jurisdiction
with the admiraly over murder cdmmitted in bays, &c. which are
enclosed parts of the seal
,Congress having, in the 8th section of the act of 1790, cli. 9, providsd
fur the'punishment of murder, &c. committed "upon the high seas,
or in any river, haven, basin, or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any
particular state," it is not the offence committed, but tho bay, &€c
in which it is tommitted that must be out ofthe jurisdiction of the

OF THE UNITED STATES'

t33

1M18
the rant to the United States iithe constitution, of all cases o'f adiji--..
raly and maritime jurisdiction, does not eitendto a cession of the
waters in which those cases may arise,, or ofa general jurisdiction over Unit. State&
"v.
the same. Congress may pass all laws which are necesssary for &Iving the most complete effect to the exercise- of the admiralty and mar- Plevansi
itime jurisdiction granted-to the government of the Union. 1But the
teneral jurisdiction ovot" the place, subject to this grant, adheres td the'
tWrritory as a ponion of territory not yet given away: 'and te residua;
ry powers of Iegislation still remain in the state.
Congress have power to prov'ee for the punishmont of offences commlit-'
ted by persons serving on bbar&. a ship of'war of the United States,
wherever that ship may lie. But congress have not exercised that pow-er in the case of a ship. lying in the waters of the'United States; the
vords "within any fort, arsenal, dinik-yard, magazine,, -or in any o(hr
place ot district of country under the sole and exclusivejurisdWtiorf
of the United'Slates;" in the ihird section of the act of 1790, ch. 9."
not extending to a ship of war, but only to objects in their haturo
diced and territorial.

The defendant, WiE'iam Bevans, was ifidicted fai
murdei in the circuit court for tie district of Massachusetts. The iidictment was founded on the 8th
section of the act of congress of the '30th df April,
1790, ci. 9. and 'was tried upon the plea of not' guilty..
At the trial, it appeared in evidence that the offence'
eharged in the infliotment, was committed by the prigoner on the sixth day of November, 1816, 6n board
the United States ship of war Independence, rated .
ship of the line of seventy-four guns, then in commigsion, and in the actual service of the United Statei'
under the command of Commodore Bainbridge. At the'
same time, Will' im ,Bevans was a marine duly enlist-'
6d, and in'the 6*rvice of the United States, and was
ac'ing as sentryfregularly posted on board of said ship,
and Peter Leinstrum (the deceased, named in -the indictment) wati at the same time duly enlisted and in
44
VOL. II.

CASES IN-THE SUPREME COURT'
1819.
V
States
Unit. S
V.
Wevans.

the service of the United States as cook's mate on board
of said ship. The said ship was at the same time lying
at anchor in the main channel of Boston harbours in
waters of a sufficient depth at' all times of tide for ships
of the largest class and' burden, and to which there is
at all times a free and unobstructed passage to the open
sea or ocean. The nearest land at low watermark to
the position where the ship then lay, on various sides
is,as follows, viz: The end of the 'long wharf so called in the town of Boston, bearing south-west by south,
half south at the distance of half a mile ; the westein
point of William's Island, bearing north by west., at
the distance between one quarter and one third of 'a
mile ; the navy yard of the United States- at Charlestown, bearing north-west half-west, at the distance of
three quarters of a mile, and' Dorchester point so called], bearing south southeast, at the distance of two miles
and one quarter, anci the nearest point of Governor's
Island so called, (ceded to the United States,) bearing southeast half-east, at the distance of one mile and
three quarters. To and beyond the position or place
thus described, the civil and criminal processes of the
courts of the state of Massachusetts, have hitherto
constantly been served and obeyed. The prisoner was
first apprehended: for the offence inthe-district of Massachusetts.
'The jury found a verdict that the prisoner, William
Bevans, was guilty of the offence as charged in the
indictment.
Upon

the foregoing statement of facts, which was

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
stated and made under the direction of the court, the
prisoner, by his counsel, afier verdict, moved for a newunit States
I.
trial, upon which motion two questions -ccurred,
Bevans.
1.
prisoner.
the
which als9 occurred at the trial ef
Whether, upon the foregQing statement of facts, the
offence charged in the indictment, and committed on
board the said ship as aforesaid, was within the jurisdiction of the state of Massachi setts, or of any
court thereof. 2d. Whether the offence charged in the
indictment, and committed on board the said ship as
aforesaid, was within the jurisdiction or cognizance of
the circuit court of the United States, for the district
of Massachusetts. Upon which questions, the judges
of the said circuit court were at the trial, aid upon
the motion for a new trial, opposed in. opinion ; and
thereupon, upon the request of the district attorney of
the United States, the same questions were ordered by
the said court to be certified under the seal of the
court to the supreme court, to be finally decided.
Mr. Webster, for the defendant. The ground of the Feb.'th.
motion for a new trial in this case is, that on the
facts proved, the offence is not within the jurisdiction
of the circuit court of the United States. The indictment is founded on the 8th section of the act of congress, for the punishment of certain crimes; by which
act, murder is made cognizable in the courts of the United States, if committed "upon the high seas, or in any
river, haven, bason or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any
particular state." To sustain the jurisdiction, in this

340

CASES IN THE SUPIEME COURT

1-818. case, then it must appear, either that the plac
,!nit.:States where the murder, was committed was the "high seas,"
or that it was a river, bay, or bason, not within the
v.
not
.BvaIs. jurisdiction of any state. 1. The murder was
committed on the high seas. bcause it was commit-,
ted in a. port, or harbour; and ports and bar
bours are not pars of the high seas. ' To some
of
purposes, they may be considered as parts
says,
Hale
Lord
sea.
the sea, but not of the high
,"the sea is either that , -hich lies within the body of
a county or without. The part of the sea which
lies not within the body of a county, is called
,the main sea or' oceah."a By the "main sea"
undoubtedly means ,thle same as is
Lord Hale
expressed by "high sea,'" "'mare altum," or Ile haut
meer." There is a distinction between the meaning of these last terms, and the meaning of tha
$ea. And this distinction does not consist merely in
this, that is "high sea" to low water mark on,
,ly, and sea to high water Wvark, wheg the tide is
full. A more obvious ground of distinction is,
that the high seas import the unenclosed and open
ocean, 'without the fauces terriz, So Lord Hale
piust.be understood in the passage cited. Ports
within the
and harbours are, by the common lawt
bodies of counties; and that being the high sea
which lies not within the body of any county, ports
ana barbours are, consequently, not part Of the high
,eas. Exton, one of the distifiguished advocates of
the admiralty jurisdiction, sneers at the commor,
Hale, De'JureMarls. eh. 4

OF THE UTNITED STAvrEs.
lawyers, for the alleged, absurdity of supposing ships I'M8.
to ride at ancher, or to sail, within the body of the''e'
TUt Statei
county. The common lawyers might retort, the
.
greater incongruity of supposing ports and harboiirs Bevait.
to be found on the high seas.a " Touching. treason
.or ielony, ' says Lord Hale, "comnitted on the high
sea, as the la- now stands, it is not determinable by
the common law courts. But if a felony be commit
ted in a na-igable arm of the sea, the common "law
hath a concurrent jurisdiction.'b
A navigable arm
of -the sea, therefore, is not the high sea. 'The" common and obvious meaning of the expression, " high
seas," is also the' true- legal meaning. The exptession describes the open ocean, where the dominion'oh
the winds and Waves pr'evails without check or*co'ntrol. Ports aifd harbours, on the contrary, are plages
of refuge, in which protection and shelter are sofight,
from this turbulent dominion, within the inclosures dndprojections, of the'land. The higb sea, and haveri§,.
instead of being of sinfilar import, are always terms 4of
opposition.
UInsula portum
Efficit objectu laterum: quibus-bmnis ab alto
Frangitur, inque sinus scindit sese unxa reductos:"
The distinction is not'only asserted by the common
lawyers, but redognised by the most distinguished
civilians, notwithstanding what is said in the case N
Owehc and some other dicta. The statute 13 Rich
a Bxton, 146.

.

b 2 Hale's P. 0. ch. S.'

- e Owen, 13.

$42

-CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818.

ard II. ch. 5, allows the admiral to entertain jurisdiction of things done on the sea, " sur le mter." The
Unit. States...
civilians contend, that by this. expression the admiBoRans. ralty has jurisdiction in ports and havens, because the
admiral Iis limited to such things as are done on the
sea, and not to such only as are done on the high
sea. In remarking upon this, and other statutes relating to the admiralty, in.-his argument for the jurisdiction of that court, delivered in the house of
lords, Sir Leoline Jenkins says: "The admiral
being a judex ordinarius, (as Bracton calls such
as have their jurisdiction fixed, perpetual, and
natural,) for 100 years before this statute; it shall
not be intended torestrain him any further than
the words do necessarily and unavoidably import.
For instance, the statutes 'say, that the admiral
shall intermeddle'only with things done upon the sea;
it 'willbe too hard a construction to remove him further, and to keep him only super altum mare: if he
had jurisdiction before in havens, ports, and creeks,
he shall have it still ; because all derogations to an
antecedent right are odious, and ought to be strictly
taken."a
This argument evidently proceeds on the
ground of an acknowledged distinction between th4
sae, and the high sea; the former including ports and
harbours) the latter excluding them. Exton's comment on the same statute, 13 Richard II. ch. 5. is to
the same effect. "Herey sur le meer," sa's he, " I
hope shall not be taken for super altum mare; when
as the statute is so absolutely free from distinguish-

a We of Sir L. Jenkins, Vol. I.p. 77.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

343

-ing any one part of the sea from the other, or limiting
181L
the admiral's jurisdiction unto one part thereof, more Unit States
than to another; but leaveth all his cognizance.
v.
But. this I am sure of, thatby the records throughout Bevna&
the reign [of Edward III.] the admirals were' capitane! et adiralli omnium portaum et locorum per coiteram maris, (as hath been already-showed,) as- will as
of the main sea."a This writer is here endeavoring to
establish the jurisdiction of tire admiralty overports and
harbours, -not as they are parts of the high sea, but as
they are parts of the sea. H& contends, therefore,
against that construction of the statute by which jurisdiction on the sea would be confined to jurisdiction on
the high sea. Upon the authority therefore, of the civilians themselves as well as on that of the common law
courts, ports and harbours must be considered as not
included in the expression of'the high seas. Indeed,
the act of congress itself goes clearly upon the ground
of this distinction. It provides for the punishment of
murder and robbery, oofnmitted on the high seas. 'It aL.
so provides for punishment of thd same offences, Y hen
committed in ports and harbours of a particulur description. This additional provision would be absuo,
but upon the supposition that-ports and harbours were
not parts'of the high sea.. 2 If this murder wad not
committed on the high seas, was it committed in such
haven or harbour as is not within the jurisdiction of any
state? The case states, that in point of fact, the jurisdiction of Massachusetts has been cdinstantly exercised
a Exton, 10.0.

CASES IN THR SUPREME COURT.
T&r&

Beans.

ov.¢r',lhe place. Primafdceie this is enough. It satis
fies'the intent of the 'act of Congress. It shows that
the orime would not go unpunishedi even if the authority of the United States court should not interfere
At actual jurisdiction in such case will be presumed'
,to be rightful; Thus in the case of Captain Gooderej,
indicted for the 'murder of his brother, Sir John
DirleyGoodere; m a ship, in Kingroad, below Bris"
tol, the indictrherit being tried 'before the recorder of
aristol, and the murder being 'alleged to have been
committdd within the body of the cdunty of that city,
witnes'ses were called to prove that the process of the
city government had frequently been served and obeyed, where the ship was iying when the murder was
conimitted on board; and this was holden io be sufficient to sho, r that the offence was committed within
the jurisdictiqn of the city.a But the jurisdiction of
MAlassachusetts, over the place where- this murder -was'
.ommitted can be showli to be rightful. It is true that
the judicial power 'of the United States extends to'
all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;.
and it may be admitted,' that this power is exclusive,
and that no state can exercise any jurisdiction of that
sort. Still it will remain to be shown, not only that
this offence is one of which the admiralty has juris-'
dictioa, but'also, that it is one of which the admiralty
For although the statehas exclu', jurisd~etion.
United States, cannot
tne
of
coirts
courts, a ,d\,the
have .,-jof urrent .admiralty jurisdiction, yet the cormi
mon law 1and the admiralty may have concurrent jua 6 Sta'te Trials, 795.

OF THE UNITED STATES

45

-risdiction ; and the state court in the exercise of 1818.
their common law jurisdiction) may have auhrt
authority Unit. S&atez
to try this offeace, although it might also be subject
v.
to the concurrent jurisdiction of a court of admiral- Beyans.
ty, and might have been tried in the courts of the United States, if congress had seen fit to give .the courts
jurisdiction in such cases.
But the act only gives
jurisdiction to thd circuit cout, in cases -whiere there
is no jurisdiction in the state courts. The state courts
exeici~e, in this respect, the entire commov law jurisdiction. If, therefore,, the common law has a jurisdiction in this case, either exclusive or concurrent,
the authority of the circuit court under the act does
not extend to- it. In -order -to.sustain this conviction,
it must be shown, not only that it is a case of ex-elusive admiralty jurisdiction, but also that congress
has conferred on the circuit court all fhe admiralty jurisdiction that it could confer. But congress has not
provided, that the admiralty jurisdiction of the circuit
court over offences of this nature shall- be exercised,
in any case- in which there is a concurrent common
lawjurisdiction in the, state courts. There is a jurisdiction, in this case, either exclusive or cbncurrintf
in the common law; because the place where the
murder was committed was a port or harbour, and all
ports and harbours are taken; by the common law, to
be within the bodies of counties.
It is true, that by
the statute 15 Rich, II. ch. 3. jurisdiction is given t6
the admiral over murder and mayhem, committed in
a ComyWn's Dig. Admiralty,E.'Bac. .br.

Eul' Crown Law, O.
VOL. II.

4

Court ofAdmiralty, A. 2

348"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1:ereat ships, lying in the streams of great rivers,
IBi.
reading
Coke's
... tlow the bridges, near the sea. Lord
the admiral's
of this statute would altogether exclude
v.
; bht Lord Hale
B&Vafis. jurisdcition from ports and harbours
"This
holds the jurisdiction to be concurrent.
river
any
in
statute first gave the admiral jurisdiction
yet obVicreek within the body of a county. But
common
sdrve, this is'not exclusive' of the courts of
herehave
&c.
bench,
Thrxt; and, therefore, the king's
admiof
in a concurrent jurisdiction with the court
sup.
ralty."a And this doctriue ofLord Hale, is now
that' the
p6ged to be the settled law in England; viz.
ju'concurrent
have
cothinohl -law and the adniralty
in
risdidltion over murder and mayhem, committed
sea.
great rivers, &c. beneath the bridges next the
has
law
common
the
that
It isnot doubted, certainly,
before
case,
Goodere's
ju~isdiction'in such cases. In
in
mntioned, some question arose, about the court
whi h the offender should be tried. The opinion
of the attorney and solicitor general, Sir Dudley
trial
Ridde' and Sir John Strange, was that the
He
nast be in the'county of the city of Bristol.
was adeordingly, tried before Sir Michael' Foster,
teriis
r corder 6f the city, and convicted. From the
solicitor
and
attorney
in'whichl tle opinion of the
the
general was expressed, it might be inferred that
common lv was thought to have exc'usive jurisdiction
of
of the case', agreeably to the well-known opinion
have
to
Lord Coke. At any iate, it wis tdmitted
and it
jurisdiction, either exclusive or concurrent,
M.aha's P. C.e. t

OF THE UNITED STATES.
does not appear that the civilians who were cosul ed
ISLS.
eo the occasion, Dr. Paul and Sir Edmund Ishamupt.Sies
doubted of this.a If, then, the cominon law woud
.
have jurisdiction ofthis offence in England, it has -J3 !aq
jurisdiction of it here; The admiralty will not exclude the common, law in thiis case, unless it
would exclude it in England. The extent of admiralty and maritime jurisdictidn to be exercised under the
constitution of the United Stites, must be judged -ofby
the common law. The constitution musl be construed, in this particular, by the same rule of interpretation which is applied to it in other particularS.
It is impossible to understand or explain the consfi-tution without applying t6 it a common law construction. It uses terms drawn from that science, and ia
many cases would be unintelligible or insensible, but
for the aid of its interpretation.b The cases cited
show, that the extent of the equity powers -of the
United Stat s courts ought to be'measured by the ex-.
tent of these powers, in the general system of the conmon law. The same reason applies to the admiralty
jurisdiction. There may be exceptions, founded qn
particular reasons, and extending as far as the reaspiis
extend on which they are founded, But as a.general
rule, the admiralty jurisdiction must be limited s the
common law limits it; and there is no reason for an
exception in this case. There is no ground to believe
that the framers of the constitution intended to -revive
the old contention betvween the common law and tbe
a Dodson'iLife of Sir JI~icadFoster, p. 4.
The United States v. Collidge, 1 Gazlisg 489.

348

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

Whatever might have been 'the origival
admiralty.
1818.
merits of that question, it had become settled, and an
Unit. States
actual practical limit had been fixed for along coturse
iv.
Beyas., of years. They cannot be supposed lo iave intended
to disturb this, from a general impression that it might
have been otherwise established- at first. This then
being a case, in which the common ,law has jurisdic-:
tion, according to established rules and usage, the act
of congress has conferred no power to try the offence
.on the courts of the United Siates.
Mr. Wk aon, for the United States. 1, The
-state court had not jurisdiction of this case, because
the offence was committed on board a national ship
of war, which, together with the space of ater she
occupies, is extraterritorial even when in a port of a
foieign country; a fartiori, when in a port of the United states. A- national ship is z part of the territory of the sovereign or state to which she belongs.
A state has -no jurisdiction in the territory of the
United States. Therefore it has none in a ship of
war belonging to the United States. The exemption
of the territory of every sovereign from any foreign
jurisdiction, is a fundamental principle of public law.
This exe aption is e~ended by comity, by' reason,
,and by justice, to the cases, 1st. Of a foreign sovereign
l]mself going into the territory of another nation. Representing the power, dignity, and all the
-sovereign attributes of his nation, and going into 14h
territory of another state under the permission, which,
in ti;e ofpeace, is implied from the absence of any

OP THE UNITED STATES.
prohibition, he is not amenable to the civil or cimi,
T5!5.
nal jurisdiction of the country. 2 Of an aimbassador U
States
stationed in a foreign country, as the delegate of his Unit.
sovereign, and to maintain the relations of peace and Bevans.
amity-between his sovereign and tfie state where he
resides. He is by the coiistant usage of civilized nations, exempt from the local jurisliction' of the country"
where he resides. By a fiction of law, founded on this
principle, he retains his national character .unmixed
and his residence is considered as 'a continued iesidencein his own country.a 3d Of an army, :or fleet,
or ship of war marching through, sailing over, ,or stationed in the territory of another sovereign. if a foreign sovereign, or his minister, or a foreign ship'of
-ar,.stationed within the territorial limits of a particular state of theunion, is in contemplation of law, extraterritorial and independent of thejurisdiction of that
state, a fortiori must the army and navy ofcthe United
States be exempted from the Bame jurisdiction. If
-they were not, they would be in a worse situation than
thoseof a foreign power, who .are exempt both from
the state and national jurisdiction, Vattel says that
the teiritory af a nation comprehends every part (.f
its just and lawful possessions.b He also considers the
ships -of a nation generally portions of. it terriory,
,thoughhe admits the right of search for goqd6 -ti
enrchant vessels.c Grotius comes -more direotly".40
a The Darbline, 6 Rob.463.
b Droil des Gena, L. -ch. 7 i.bb
¢Id. L. I 'Ch.'19 s. 216i4171,
•.

850

CASES IN THE SUPREME

OURT

He holds, that sovereignof the sea, Ar &portion
a
ov1er
acquired
be
ty may
'
.'iStates .in
Iait. iSt.t
personarum, UT SI CLASSIS, QUI MARITIMIS EST
i

119." the point we have in view.

lVlVa.

ZXERCITUS,

ALIQUO

IN LOCO,

M-ARIS SE

HABrATo1)

Sb, also, Casaregis, maintains the same doctnne,
and fortifies his positions by multiplied citations from
ancient writers of authority. He holds it as an undeniable and universally received principle of public
of
law, that a sovereign cannot claim the exercise
territories,
his
jurisdiction in the seas adjacent to
"exceptis tamen IVuchu.s Generatibus vd Generalisducto"imisalicujus exercitus vel classis maratinue vel
iilnts etiam alicujus navis m'litaris nam isti in sous
vo.
milites gentem. et naves libere jurisdictinem sive
criminasive
luntariam sive contensiwsam sive civilem,
in
lem in alieno territoria quod occupant tamquam
the
stw proprio exercere possunt," ic.b The case of
learnmost
a
after
court
Exchange, determined in this
to
ed, able, and eloquent investigation puts the seal
If, in that case, the exemption of
th6 doctrine.c
foreign ships of war from the local jurisdiction, be pla.
ced on the footing, of implied or express assent;
that may more naturally and directly be inferred in
the case of a state of this Union, a member of the con,federacy, than of a foreign power, unconnected
by other ties, than those 6f peace and amity which
prevail between distinct nations. The exclusive jurisdiction which the Unitel States have in forts and
dock-yards. ceded to them, is derived from the express
a De Jur. Bel. ac Pac. L. 2 c. 3 § 13.
c 7 Crancr. 116.
6 Dis. 174. 136.

OF THE UNITEah STATES.

"351-

astent of the states by whom the cessions are made.
181S
It could be derived in no other manner; -because Unit. States:
without it, the authority of the state would be su'
v.
preme and 'exclusive therein. But the exclusive ju- Beyaw.
risdiction of the United Stat6s on board their ships of
war is not derived from the express assent of the individual states; because tha United 'States have it in
common with oll other independent powers; they,
have it by the public law of the world; a concession
of it in the constitution woild have been merely declaratoy of that law. The power granted to congress by the constitution, "1to make rules for the
government of the land and naval forces," .merely
respects the military police of the army and navy, to
be maintained by articles of war which form themilithry code. But this case is not within the . grasp
of that code, the Qffence being committed within the
jurisdiction of the United States. The power of a
court martial to punish murder, is confined to cases
" without" the United States, by the act of the 234
of April, 1800, for' the government of the navy, .c'.h
33. In England, murder.committed in the army or
navy, is triable, (not by courtg,- mar ial) but in the ordinary criminal courts of the country. But in what
courts? In the national courts. If committed on
land, in the courts of common law: if committed within the limits of the admiralty jurisdiction, at the
admiralty Sessions.a In the memorable caie of
the frigate 'Chesapeake, the pretension of searching
public ships for 'deserters was blemnly disavowed
a Tyjtler's ,MilitarjLaw, 153.

• CASES'IN THE SUPREME COURT
by the British government, and their immunity from
"Unt.7' the exercise of any ju'risdiction but that of the soveUnit. States,
v, 'reign power to which they belong was spontaneously
The principle that every power has
BernS. recognized.a
l8W0.

exclusive

jurisdiction ovef offences committed

orn

board their own public ships, wcrever they may be,,

is-also demonstrated in a speech of the present chief
justice of the United States, delivered in the house
of representatives on the celebrated ease of Xask
.lias Robbins; which argument though made in another forum, and for another object, applies with irresistible force to every claim of jurisdiction over a
public ship that may be set up by any sovereign
power other than that td which such ship belongs.b
a

Ir. Canning's Letter to Mr. Monroe, August 3d, 1807.

5 Waites' .Documcnis,89.
b Bee's Adns. Rep. 266.
The Edinburgh Review for
October, 1807, art. 1. contains an examination of this
subject, in which the writer deduces the following propositions:
I. That the right to search
for deserters on board of mcrchant ships rests on the same
basis as tihe righrs to search for
contraband goods. The ground
of this right being in each
ca e the injury done to the
belligerent-which can only
be known by a search, and redressed-by immediate imj~ressment. P. D.

1I. That this right must be
confined to rnercli:mt ships,and.
is wholly inapplicable to ships
of war of any nation. That
in case of the piotectin, of
deserteis by such ships the
only remedy lies in negotiation
and ifthat fails, in war. p. 9. 1Y.
The non-existence of the
right to search national ships
is inferred from the following
arguments.
1. The great inconvenience
of the exercise of the rightthe tendency to create dissention.
2. The silence of all pub-lie jurists on the ;ubject,thouqh

OF THE UNITED STATES.
M8S.
All jurisdiction is founded on cowent; either the'consent of all the,'citiz0ns implied in the social compact
Unit. States
.
itself, or the express consent of the party or his soBevans.
occasions have arisen in which
its existence would have settied the question in dispute at
once.
For example, the case of the
Swedish convoy. The judgment of Sir W. Scott thereon.
Dr. Croke's remarks on
Schlegel's Work. Letters of
Sulpicius. Lord Greuville's
speech on the Russian treaty,
November, 1810, p. 11.
I. The language of all
treaties, in which the subject
of search is mentioned, where
it is always confined to merchant ships. Consolato del
Mare, ch. 273. Treaty of
Whitehall, 1661, art. 12.
Treaty of Copenhagen, 1670,
art. 20. Treaty of Breda, 1667,
art. 19. Treaty of Utrecht,
1713, art. 24. Treaty of Commerce with France, 1786, art.
26. Treaty with America,
1795, art. 17, 18, 19. So, in
the language of jurists, the
right is always confined to
merchant ships. Vattel, liv.
3, ch.7. s. 113 and 114. Mar.
tens on Privateers, ch. 2. s.
20. Hubner, de la Saisie des
VOL. III.

batimens neutres, I vol. part
1. ch. S. s. \W hitlock's mem,
p. 654. Molloy, de Jur.Mar.
book 1. ch. 5.
IV. That the territory of'
an independent state is invio-.
lable, and cannot be enteiect
into to search for deserters.
Vattel, li b S. ch. 7. s. 93. "
64, and s. 79.
That the same principle of
inviolability applies to the national ships, and that these
flo'iting citadels are as muck
a part of the t6 ritory as cas
ties on dry, land. They are
public property, held by public men in the public service,
and governed by martial law.
Moreover the supreme power
of the state resides in them;
the sovereign is represented
in them, and every act done
by them is done in his name,
V. From the analogical'case
of the rights and privileges of
ambassadors, every reason for
which applies strongly to the
present exemption, Vattel,
lib. 4. ch. 7 and 8. Grotius,
de Jure Belli, 17. 4. 4.
Vt. From the absurdity of

354

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

vereiga. Bat in this case, so far from there being
1818.
- implied or express, that the state courts
- consent,,
Uni. ':'-any
Umit,
5States
cognizance of offences committed on
take
should
IV
'of war belonging to the United States,
'ships
of
board
Bevans.
determining the claims of
sovereign states in the tribunals of one of them: when
these claims can only 'be'decided by the parties themselves,
Yet if search in such case be
resisted, the admiralty would
on capture be the judge. All
jfirists agree, that there is no
human court in which the disputes of nations can be tried.
And no provisions are made
in any treaty for a trial of this
nature, p. 15.
VII. That the naval supremacy of Great Britain affoids
noargdment for the right.
That this naval supremacy
was never admitted by other
nations, generally, though it
was by Holland. That it is
confined to the British seas,
and that even in them it only
respects the mere right of salute, and no more. See Grotius, lib. 2. ch. 3. s. 81 13.
Puffendorff, de Jury Gent. lib.
4. ch. 5. s. 7. Seld. Mar.
Claus. lib. ch. 14. Ibid. lib.
2. ch. Molloy b.' 1. ch. 5.

Treaty of Whitehall, 162,
Treaty of Breda,
art, 10.
1667, art. 19. Treaty of Westminster, 1674, art. 6, Treaty
of Paris, 1784, with Holland
art. 2. Vattelliv. I. ch. 2s.
s. 289. p. 17, 18

VIII.Two instances onlyexist of an attempt to claim the
right, and these were of Holland. In the negotiation of
the peace of 1654, Cromwell
endeavoured to obtain from
the Dutch the right to search
for deserters in their vessels

of war within the British seas.

But this was rejected, and the.
right of 'salute only acknowledged. Soon after that peace
(1654) -the question was discussed in consequence of a
Dutch convoy being searched
as to the werchant ships in the
channel. The Dutch government, on this occasion, gave
public instructions to their
commanders to allow the merchant ships to be searched,
but never to allow the ships of
war. Thurloe. 2. v. p. 505.
Treaty-of peace, and alliance p. 19, 20.
with Holland, 1654. art. IS.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

355

1818.
those ships enter the ports of. the different states unes
ter the permission of 'the state ,governmenls, which Uta
V.
in as much a waiver of jurisdiction' as it would be in
Bevans.
persame
the
by
entering
ship
the case, of a foreign
mission. A foreign' ship would be exempt from the
local jurisdiction; and the sovereignty of the United
States on'board their own ships of war cannot . be
less perfect while they remain in any of the ports of.
the confederacy, than if they were in a port wholly
foreign. But we ihave seen that When they are in a.
foreign port They are exempt from the jurisdiction 'of
the couitry. With still more reason must they be
exempt from the jurisdiction of the local tribunals
when they are in a port of the" Unioni.-2. The state
court had not jurisdiction, because the place iA ivhich
the offence was committed, (even if it had not been
committed on board a public ship of war, of.the Ufiited States) is within the admiralty jurisdiction with
,which th federal courts are invested Jy the constitution and the laws. By the constitution, the judiciary
power extends to 0 all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction." There can be no doubt that the techiiical common law terms used in the constitution are to
be 8onstrued accerding to that law, such as "habeas
corpus," "trial by- jury," &c. But this is a term of
-tniversal law, 11 cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction - ' not cases of admiralty.jurisdiction only;
but the amplest, broadest, and most expansive terms
that could be used to grasp the largest sense relative'
to the subject matter. The framers of the constitution were not mere common lawyers only.. Their
minds were liberalized by a knowledge of universal

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
Uo4
.

jurisprudence and general policy. They may sw
well, therefore, be supposed to have used the term
admiralty and maritimsjurisdiction, as denoting
the

Neva n s .jurisdiction of the admiralty in France, and in every
country of the civilized world, as in England alone.
But even supposing this not to have been the case,
the statutes of Richard IL' at their enactments
noula not have e xtended to this country, because the
colonies aid not then exist. They could not afterwards .on the discovery and colonization of this coun
try become applicable here, because they are geoBritish statutes
graphicatly local in, their natutre.
were not in force in the colonies, unlems the colonies
-were expressly, or by inevitable implication, included
1herein.a We never admitted the right of the Brifish parliament to bind us in any case, although they
assumed the authority to bind us in all cases. It is,
therefore, highly probable that the framers of the
'constitution had in view the jurisdiction of those
admiralty courts with which they were familiar.
The jurisdiction of the colonial admiralty courts extended, First. To all maritime contracts, wherever
made and wherever to be executed. Secondly. To
all revenue causes arising on navigable waters.
Thirdly. To all offences committed "on the sea
shores, public streams, ports, fresh waters, rivers, and
arms as well of the sea as of the rivers and coasts,"
But if this construction should not be tenablej
&c.b
it may be shown that an offence committed in the
a I B1. Com. 407, 108.

b De Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gallis. 470. Nofe 47'.

OP THE UNITED STATES.

37

place where the record shows this crime was corn'1818.
mitted, is within the rightful jurisdiction of the admiralty, according to English statutes and English Unit. States
,I
authorities. Before the statutes of Richard II. the
Bevans.
criminal jurisdiction of the admiralty extended to all
offences cpmmitted on the high seas, and in the ports,
havens; and rivers of the kingdom.a 'Subsequently
to the statutes of Richard, there has never been any
question in England, that the admiralty had jurisdiction on the sea corst within the ebb and flow of the
tide. The doubt has been -confined to pots .andhavenms. But "the sea," techinically so termed, includes
ports and havens, rivers and creeks, as well as the
sea coasts; and therefore the admiralty jurisdieti'66i
extends as, well to these -(within the ebb and flow)
its to the sea coasts.b On this- branch of',th cm.se it
a Rouglton's Articles in
Clerk's Praxisi09, et -infra.
.Exton, took 12 and 13. Seld&x, DefDominio Masri, Book
. ch. 24. Zouc/'s Jurisdiction of the Admiralty assered,
96. Hall's, Adm. Practice,

re, quaint ilflowe chescun poet pischer en le ewe ,que eit
flow sur ma tere, car donques
il st parcel de le mere, et' en
le mere chescun ,onme ,poit.

Pischer de common droit.'
Year Book, "8Edw. 4. '1, a.

XrIX.BpSelnian'a W'orks, 228,' S. C., cited b Co.
Rep. 10,

Ed'. 1727.
b Nota, Que chescun ewe,
que flow et reflew est appel
bras de meer ci tant aunt come
PI lowe." 2.Assisc, 93.
MJhoke, . "Si jeo ay terre
'Adjoint al mere issint que le
S*
her 'ebbe et fiow su ma ter-

"It was resolved that wer6
the sea flows and'has .plenitu.
dem 1aris, the admiral shall
have jurisdiction of every
thing done on the wateri
between the high water .mark
by the natural course of the
lea ; yet, when ihe sea ebbs'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

3

-would be useless to do more than refer to the opiniln
MI 8.
Un
aes of one of the learned judges of this court, e in which

.-

Bevans.

all the learning on the civil and criminal jurisdiction
a De.Lovio v. Boit, 2 Gallis, 393.

the land may belong to a
siibject, and every thing done
on the land, when the sea is
ebbed, shall be tried at the
common law, for it isthen
parce oJ the county and infra
eot'pus comekotus, and there-

with agrees 8 Edw. 4. 19. a.
SSbnote that below the low water mark the admiial bath the
sole and absolute jurisdiction;

between the high"water mark
and low wate mark, the common law and the admiral have
divisum imperium, as is aforesaid, scilicet one super acquam
and the other super terran"

Sir Henry Constable's case,
5 Co. Rep. 106, 107.
- The place absolutely subject to thejurisdiction of the
a'dmiralty is-the sea, which

seemeth to comprehend public rivers, fresh waters, creeks
and surrounded places whatsaoever, within the ebbing and
flowing of the sea at the highest water, the shores or banks
adjoining, froin all the first
bridges sea ward, for in these
the a i'l*y.hath full jtiris-

diction in all causes critninal
and civil, except treasonis and
right of wreck." Speltnan,
of tIhe Admiralty Jurisdictie
Works, 226. Ed. 1727.
"The court was of opinion,
that the contract being laicito
be made infra fiuxtitn .et refluxuma marts, it might be upon the high sea; and was so,
if the water was at high water
mark, for in that case there
is divisum imperium between
the common Idw and the admiralty jurisdiction, according as thq water was high or
low." Barber v, Wharton, 2
Ld. Roym. 1452.
The ancient commission issued under the statute 28
Henry VIII.'ch. 15, concerning the trial of crimes committed within the admiralty
jurisdiction, contains the following words, dccriptivo of
the criminaljurisdiction of the
court: "Tam in aut super
mart, nut in aliquo porta, rnio,
Aqua dulci, creca, seu loco
quocunque infra fluxum maris
ad plenitudem a quibuscunn"

OF THE UNITED STATES.

of the admiralty is collected. together', and concen-

1818.
trated in a blaze of luminous reasoning, to prove that i.
t
II. U .
this tribunal, before the statutes of Richard
Bevans.
prithus pontibus verses mare, of the common law have been
quam super littus mars, et named and set in their comalibi abicunque infra jurisdic- mission; but we are not to extionem nostram maritimam, tend the words "pretends to
aut limites Admiralitatis Reg- have" to such a pretence as is
ninostri, et dominium nos- without any right at all, and
trorum." Zouch, 112,2 Hale's therefore, although the admi', C. ch. 3, Lord Hale, ral pretends to nave jurisdicspeaking of this statute. 28 tion upon the shore when the
Hen. VIII. ch. 15, quoting water is re-flowed, yet he hath
the words, which define the no cognizance of ,a felony
locality of the jurisdiction committed there," &c.. &c.
given to the high commission 2 Hale's P. C. ch. 3.
court, viz. "in and upon the
The navy mutiny act of the
sea, or in any'other haven, 22 Geo. II. ch. 33, sec. 4,
creek, river, or place, where thus defines the jurisdiction
the admiral hath, or pretends of a navy court marfial, to wit.-'
to have power, authority, or "=Nothing contained in the Arjiurisdiction." this seems to me ticles of war shall extend or
to extend to great rivers, be construed to extend, to emwhere the sea flows and re- power. any court maitial. it
flows belowthe first bridges, virtue of this act, to proceed
and also in creeks of the sea to the punishment 'brtrial of
at full water, where the sea any of the offeances specifibil
flows and re'*flows, and upon' in the several articles, (other
high watei upon the shore, than the offences specified in
though these possibly be with- the 5th, 34th and 35 articles
in the body of. the county; and orders,) which shall not
for here at least, by thetulatute be committed upon -the main
of Rich. II. they have a juris- sea, or in great rivers only,
diction; and thus, accordingly, beneath the .bridges of te said
it has been constantly used' in rivers nigh to the sea, or in.the
all times, even when judges .haven, river, or creek within

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
had cognizance of all torts, and offences, on the high
seas, and in ports and havens, as far as the ebb and
Unit.States flow of the tide; that the usual common law inWyag.. terpretation, abridging this jurisdiction to transacions wholly and exclusively on the'high seas, is indefensible upon principle, and the decisions founded
on it are irreconcilable with one another; whilst
that of the civilians has all the consistency of truth
,itself; and that whether the Ehglish courts of common law be, or be not, bound by these decisions, so
that they- cannot retrace their steps, yet that the
courts of this country are unshackled by any such
bonds, and may and ought to construe liberally the
grant of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction contain,
To the authorities there
ed in the constitution.
cited, add those in the margin, showing that the courts
iL

lthjursdictio, of te damiral- ing or claiming any admiralty
4y," &c. In the 5th section
of 'the act is the following
proviso: "Provided always,
-that nothing in this act shill
extend, or be construed to ex.tend, to take away from the
'Lord High Admiral of Great
Britain, or the commissioners
for executing the office of
Lord High Admiral of Great
Britain, or any vice-admiral,
or any judge or judges-of the
,admiralty, or his ,or their deputy or deputies, or any other

officers or ministers of the
admiralty, or apt others hav

power, jurisdiction, or autho-.

rity within the realm, or any
other of the king's dominions,.
,or from any person or court

whatsoever, any power, right,.
jurisdiction, pre-eminence, Qr
authority, which he, or they,
or any of them, lawfully bath,
have, or had, or ought to have
and enjoy, before the making
of this act, so as the same person shall not be punished
twice for tha same offence."
I M'Arthur on Courts Mutia,
174. 348. 4th Ed,

OF THE UNITED- STATES.

861

of admiralty in Scotland, France,. and the other coun-- 1818.
tries of Europe possess the extent of'jurisdictibn we U
contend for.a
The liberal construction of the con- Unit. T.States
stitution, for which we contend, is strongly fortified Berans.
by the interpretation given to it by tle.congress in
an analogous case, which interpretation has, been
confirmed by this court. The judiciary'act declares
that revenue suits, arising of seizures on waters:
a In Scotland, the delegate pirateries, pillage. et deserof the high admiral, who holds tions des equipages, et genethe court of admiralty, "is ralement de tous crimes et
.declared to be the king's jus- delits commis sur nerses ports,
tice general upon the seas, or havres, et rivages." Ordonfiesh water, within flood and
ance de la .lfarne, L. 1. t. 2.
mark, and in all harbours and art. 10, de la Competence
creeks," &c. 2 Blro. Ci. and "L'amiraute etoitune veritable
ldn. Lat. 30. ,190.Erskine's jurisdiction ayant le droit do
Institutcs, 34. 10th ed. "In
glaive et consequemment dG
Scotland,(as Welwood,a Scot- juger les personnes tan't au,
tish man, writes,) the admiral criminel qu'au civil, et cerand judge of the admiralty hath taines choscs qui par leur napower within the sea-flood, ture etoient purement mariover all sea-faring men, and times, ce qui resulte Ou titfe
in all sea-faring causes and de ]a competence, art. 5 et 10.
debates, civil and criminal: So Ia tribtnal des jtiges consul&
that no otherjudge of any de- jugoient les chctaes comimergree may meddle therewith, ciales; d'ou ilresti-toit qlue les
but only by way of assistance, amirautes connoissent de tous.
as it was found in the action les protes,-actions. et contrht
brought by Anthony 46 la su-V .ntts potir venitble navires
Tour against Christian Mar- na iftagcs, 4sur nces, etc. etf
tens, November 6, 1542."2 le. tribunau'.xOnsu~eir s de,
Zouch. 91.
tot s Its actes de 'o~imorct
"Connoitront (les juges de - pt reryeut mercarltU]." ' #ouPamiraute) par6illement &a cher, Drbitf
Mqrqfr
ie. 727
VoL. III.

969
1q18.
nt; ,S'tacs
C
Ui
P
2e11119I

CASES IN-THE SUPREME COURT
navilable from the sea, &C.shall be euses of adiniralty and maritime jurisdiction. And in'the case of
the Vengea'nce,a and other successive cases, the court
has confirmed the constitutionality o this legislative
provision. Bur neither the congress noir the court
could make those suits cases of admiralty and'naritime jurisdiction which were not so by the constitution itself. The constitution is the 'supreme law,
both for the legislature and for the court. The high
dourt of admiralty in England has no original jurisdicticin of revenue causes whatever. But the coloniIl courts of admiralty .have always had, and that
xnhercnt, independent of, and pre-existent to, the staThe inevitable conclusion
lutes on this: subject.b
therefore is, that both the legislature and the court
understood the term cases 'of admiralty and inaritime jurisdiction, to refer, not to the jurisdiction of
the high court of admiralty in England, ts frittered
down by the illiberal jealousy, and. unjbst, usurpations of the common law courts; but to the adm-=
valty jurisdiction, as it had'been exercised in this
&auntiy from its- first colonization. But it has been
already shown that this jurisdiction- extended to all
crimes and offences committed in parts and. havens.
It therefkre 'follows that such was the, extent of the
admiralty- jurisdiction meant to.,be conferred upon
the federal courts by the framers of the constitution.
S. By the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 25. the circuit
dourt nas jurisdiction of all crimes cognizable under,
the authority of,the United States. By the act of
a.$3 DaU. 297.

b, The Fabiu2,Rob..4S..

OF THE TJNITED STATCS.
1790, ch. 9, it is provided that "if any person c, per- 18 18.
sons shall commit upom the high seas, or in any river, Unit. gtaces

haven, basin or bayi out of thejurisdictioii of any particular state, murder, &c. "he shall suffer death." It
appears by the face of the record itself that this murder was committed, in fact, "in a riier, haven, or
bay," and it has already been shown that in law, it
was committed out of the jurisdiction of any paiticular
state.
The Attorney- General on the, same side. If the
offence in question be not cognizable by the circuit"
court, it is entirely dispunisbable. The harb6ur of
Boston is bounded by three distinct counties, but" fidt
included in either; consequently the locis in quo is;
not within the body' of any county' These thre'E

counties are Suffolk, - Middlesex, and Norfolk i and
are referred to as early as the year 1637, in the "putlie abts of the colony of

M1assach-nsetts

as then esta-

blished.a It is not pretended that .the place- -whem
the ship'of war lay at the time this offence was" conimitted is within the limits of the county of Middleser. By the act of the legislature of Massaehus'i"t
on the M6th of March, 1793, all the territory of' zht
county of Suffolk not comprehended within the towns
of Boston and Chelsea, was formed into a new tav
by the name %fNorfolk. And by this act and.the
subsequent acts of the 20th of June, 1793, and 18tir
of June, 1803, the county of Suffolk now bompreo.
hends only the towns of B.oston and Chelsea.' Thfie
a Colonry Laws, ed. 1672. title Courts, 36, $7

V..
BE"ans.

VASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
locus in quo cannot 'be within the body of 6ither of
these counties, or of the old county of Suffolk ; for
Unit. Statse
there is no positive law fixing the local limits of the
V.
Dens. counties themselves; or of the towns included there-in : and according to the facts stated on the record.
it is at least doubtful whether a person on the land
on.one side of the waters of the birbour could discern what was done on the other side. a It the locus
in quo be not within the body of any county, it is
confessedly within the admiralty jurisdiction. That
jurisdiction is exclusively vested in the United States'
courts;b and therefore th6 state court could not take
cognizance of this offence. To which ever forum,
however, the cause be assigned, the accused is equal,
ly safe. In either court the trial is by d jury, and
there is the same privilege of process to compel the
,attendance of wJitnesses, &c. The objection commonly urged to the admiralty jurisdiction, that it praceeds according to the course of the civil law, and
without the intervention of a jury, would not apply.
Besides, that objection is wholly unfouanded, even a s
applied to the court when proceeding in criminal
coes according to. ,the :ancient law of the admiralty,
iDdependent of statutes 5 wbeA thus proceeding, it
never, acted withaut the, aid of a grand and petit
j*y. There is no doubt -the courts of the United
,States are courts of limited jurisdiction, but not limited
asto each general class of cases of which they
The terms of the constjt.ution
take cognizance.
1811.

'l"

a 2 Hawklns,.ch. 9. s, 14.

2 .East's P. C, 84.

,b Martin v. Hunter, 'VWhea.t. 333. .357,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
embrace "ALI. cases of admiralty and mritime ju- 1813.
risdiction;" civil and criminal, and whether thesame Umit. tateu
arise from the locality or from the nature of the controV.
versy. The meaning and extent of these, terms is to Bevansg.
be sought for, not in the common laiv, but in the civil
law. Suppose the terms had been jus postliminii, or
jactitationof marriage; where else, but to the civil law,
oould resort be had in order to ascertain their extent
and import? It may be that the jurisdiction of the civil
law courts is a subdivision of the great map of the
common law ; but in order to ascertain'its limits, extent and boundaries, the map of this particular province
must be minutely inspected. The common law had no
imperlial prerogative over the civil law courts by which
they could be controlled, or have been in fAct controlled. The terrors of prohibition were disregarded, and
the contest between these rival jurisdictions was continued with unabated hostility until the agreement signed by all the judges in 1632, and ratified by the king in
council.a 'The war between them would never have
a .f esolution upon thecases ofAdmiral Jurisdiction. Whitehall,

18th February.

Present, the hing's most excellen' majesty.
Lbrd Kceper,
Lord V. Wimnbleton,,
Lord Ab. of York,
Lord V. Wentworth,
Lord Treasurer,
Lord V. Falkland,
Lord Privy Seal,
Lord Bishop.of London,
Earl Marshall,
Lord Cottington,
Lord Chamberlain,
Lord Newburgh,
E arl of Dorset,
Mr. Treasurer,
Earl of.Carlisle,
Mr. Comptroller,
Earl of Holland,
Mr. Vice Cbamberlaio,
Earl of Denbigh,
Mr..Secretary Voke,
Lord Chancellor of Scotland, Mr. Secretary Windebank,
Earl of Morton,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
been terwinated, but by the overruling auth6rity of the
-1818.
king in c6uncil. A tdmporary suspension of hosUn'
tilities had been eff'ected by a previous agreement of
. tiit.
v.States
Bevans.

demand"This day the king being as he penally be isnotnot
to be
prohibition
a
ed,
presentin eouncil, the articles'
be
suit
the
granted. rlut if
and proposition following, for
questhe
or the penalty, orif
the accommodating and set- f
be nzade, whether the
tion
ting the difference concerning
charter party be made or not;
pro.ibitions, arising betwpen
or .-heaier the plaintiff did
his majesty's courts at Westminstei, and his court of admi- release, or othe-wise discharge
tile same within the realm:
;ralty, were fully debated and
this is to be tiled in the king's
,resolved by the board ; and
courts, and not in the admi'were then likewise, upon readralty.
ing the same, as well before
"3. If suit be in the court
the judges ol his majesty's said
of admiralty, for building
courts at Vestminster, as beamending, Eating, or necessafore the judge of his said court
ry victualling of a ship, against
of admiralty, and his attorneythe ship itself, and not against
gief-A-al agreed unto, and subany party by name, but such
scribed by then ai in his ma- as for his interest makes himJesty's presence, viz.
prohibition is
"". If suit should be com- self a party ; no
to he granted) though this be
'menced in the court of admi- done within the realm.
ralty upbn contracts made, or
"4. Although of some cauother things personal done ses arising upon tha Thaiaes
beyond the sea, or upon the, beneath the bridge, and divers
see, no prohibition is to be other rivers beneath the first
awarded.
bridge, the king's courts
u2. If suit be before the adhave cognizance; yet the
minlfor freight or mariner admiralty hath also juriswages, or forbreach of char- diction there in the point
ter.Tarties, for wges to- be specially mentioned in the
made beyond the seas ; though statute of Decimo quinto Rich,
the charter party happen to ardi "-undi, and also by exbe made within the realm; so

OF ThE UNITED STAThS.

P

the judges of the king's bench and the' adtithy, made 118t.
States
uYnit...
i
in 1575; but that agreement -was soon violated, by
v.
the common law courts.a' So, that the limits of the
position and equity thereof, the court of admirajly, in any
he may inquire of and redrs.ss •caise or appeal ma efrom thp.
all annoyances and obstruc- same to the.high court of
tions in those rivers, that are chancery,, if may please theme
any impediment-to navigation to forbar the granting of any"
or passage to or firom the sea; wit of prohibition; either to:

and no prohibition is'- to be
granted in such cases.
"5. Itany ie impriscned,
and, upon habeas corpus
brought, ibe certified, that any
of these be the cause of his imprisonment, the party shall be
remanded,
"Subscribed 4th February,

163-, by all the judges of both,
Cro. Car. !Z16,
benches."
London Ed. of 10S"7. By Sir
Harbottle Grimstone. These
resolutions are inserted in the
early editions of Croke's reports, but left out in the latter,
seemingly ex

B14twn's ci.

-

industria. 2

-

the judge of said court or'ito
her majesties delegates, at the
aute of him by whon such appeal shallbe made, seeing by'
choice of remedy in that wayr
in reason he oughtfobe con.,
tented therewith, and not to
be relieved any other way.& .swer. It is agreed by

the lord chief justice and hiw'
colleagues, that after sentence
given in the dleleptes, no pro.
hibition shall begranted. And,
if there be no seutence, if a
prohibition- be not~sued for
within thew-et terun following
sentence in thadniralty-court
or within two terms aftir, at
the farthest, no prohibition
shall pass to the delegates.
" 2d Request. That. prohibitions hereafter be not granted upon bare suggestionas -or
surmises, - without summary

4-.2m. Law. '9.
a "12th of M1ay, 157a.
"The request of the judge
of the admiralty to the lord
chief justice of her admiralty's
bench, and his colleagues
with theiranswers to the same,
'- 1st. Request. That after examination and proof thereof,
judgment or sentence given in whdrein it may be lawful to

CA$AZS IN THE SUPREME COURT

368
"I t8

ai3miralty jurisdiction in England, as fixed at the time
could
- the United States' epndtitution was established,
not be ascertained by the common law alone. IRe,. nynit..States

nAVANS
S.
.II,VA

the judge of the admiralty,
and te party defendant to
have counsel, and. to plead for
the stay thereof, if there shall
appear cause.
"Ansz er. They have agreed
that the judge of the admiralty
and the party defendant shall
have counsel in court, and to
plead to stay, if there may appear evident cause.
"3d Reqjuest. Thatthejudge
of the admiralty, iccording to
such an aqcient order as hath
been taken by king Edward
the first and his council, and
aciording to the letters patent
of the lord admiral for the
time being, and allowed by
other kings of the landever
sinde, and by dustom tIhe out
of the memory of man, may
'have and enjoy cognition of all
. ontracts, and other things,
.rising as well beyond, as upon
the,sea, without let, or prohibition.
oAnswer. This is agreed
upon by the said lord chief
justice, and his colleazues.
"4th Reqlest. That the
said judges may have and enjoy the knowledge of the
breach

of

charter-parties,

made betwixt masters of ships
and merchants for voyages to
be made to the paits beyond
the. sea, and to be performed
upon and beyond the sea, according as it hath been accuEtomed time out ofmind,and according to the good meaning
of the 32d of Henry 8 c. 14
thouglr-the same charter parties be made within the realm
,Saswver. This is likewise
agreed upon, for things to be
performed, either upon or beyond 'dhe sea, though the
charter party b made upon
the land, by the statute of the
a2d of Henry 8. chap. 14.
,5h Request. That writs
of corpuv cum causa be not
directed to the said judge,' in
causes of the nature aforesaid,
and if any happen to be directed, that it may,please them to
accept of the return thareof,
with the cauze, and not the
body,.as it bath always been
accustomed.
" Answer. If any writ of
this nature be directed in the
causes before specified, they
are -ontent to return the bodies again to the lord admiral's
gaol, upon -certificate of the

OF THEUNITED STATES,
sOrt raust have been had for this purpose to the r&. 151.
solutions of the king in council, in 1575 and 1632,
1_
and to the statutes of Richard II. a~d Henry VIIL Uait Stater'
cause to be such, or if it be pf mind, the admiral court have Bevya.
had jurisdiction wit~io sucir
ports, creeks, and rivers.
"7. That the agreement

for contempt or disobedience
to the court in any such cause."
Zouch's Jurisdictionof the Admiralty of England Asserted,
121.
Eltract from , The cornplaint of the- lord admital of
England, to- the- king's most
excellent majesty, against the
Judges of the realm, concerning prohibitions granted, to. the
court of admiralty, 11 February, penultimo die Termini
Hillarii, Anno 8. Jac. Regis:
"5. Td the end that tfie
admirar jurisdiction may receive all mantrer of ihmpeichment and interruption, the
rivers-beneatfi the first bridge
where it ebbeth and floweth,
and the ports and creeks, are
by the judges of the common
law Affrmed to be no part of
the seas, nor within the admiral jurisdiction: And whereupon prohibitions are usually
awarded upon actions depending ;n that court, for contracts
and other things done in those
places ;* notwithstanding that
by use and practice time out
VOL. IL

made anno domini 157.5, be-

tween the judges of the king's,
bench and the court of admiralty for the more certain andquiet execution of admiral jurisdiction, is not observed asit ought to be'." Zotich. Preface. The last of the abovo
articles of complaint. was answered by Sir Edward Coke
in the name of the commonlaw judges as follows-:
,

"Jnswer.

The ,supposed

agreement meatibned in this
article hath not as yet been
delivered untp us, hut having
heard the- same read over before his majesty (out of a paper not subscribed with thte
hand of any judge) we answer.
that for so much thereof as.
differeth from these ansoers,
it is against the laws and sta
tutes of the realm :-and there
fore the judges of the king'r.
bench never assented thereunto, neitmer doth the phrase
thereof agree with the terms.
of the law of the reahn'
L8

310
18ig.
Vnit. States

V.
Befin.

CA*$S IN THY SU"PXVIE COURT
The framers if the constitution took a large and

They were not igno courts
rant of the usurpations of the common law
used,
therefore
upon the admiralty jurisdiction, and
admiex industria, the broad terms " alI cases of
ralty and maritime jurisdiction ;Y" leaving the judinot
ciary to determine the limit of these terms,
English
the
'of
merel, by the inconsistent decisions
common law courts, (which are irreconcileable with
each. other, and wvith the remains of 'jurisdiction that
adwe by them acknowledged still to -belong to the
matwhole
the
of
miralty,) but by an impartial view
What
ter, going back to its original foundations.
cases are " of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,"
must be determined, either by their nwOtre, or by the
ptace wf.ere they arise. The first class includes all
questions of prize, and all maritime contracts,
wherever made, and wherever to be executed. The
second includes all torts and 6ffences committed on
the high seas, and in ports and rivers N'bin the ebb
and flow of the .tide. It is within the lat, r bianch
of the admiralty jurisdiction that the present case falls.
The jurisdicion of the admiralty all over Europe,
and the countries conquered and colonized by Europe,
extteuds to the sea,, and its inlets, arms, and ports ;
Even in Engwherever the .tide ebbs and flows.
land, this particular offence, when " committed in
great ships, being hovering in the main stream of
great rivers, beneath the bridges of the same, nigh to
the sea," is within the admiralty jurisdiction. The
place where this murder was committed is precisely
w-ithin the jurisdiction, of the admiralty as expounded
liberal view of this subject.

OF THE UNITED STATE&
Ig
by Lord Hale in his commentary an the statute 28th
to,
preferred
UtiLtgt
been
has
Henry VIII. ch. 15. which
v.
Lord Coke's construction, by ail the judges-of Eng*
land in the very' recent case of the King v. Bruce.a Beeasm"
a "At the admiralty sessions
loldenat the 011'ailey in the.
-year 1312, John Brtce was
tried before Lord Ellenborough, Ch. J. for the wilful
murder of a ferry boy of the
name of James Dean.
"The evidence of the fact
was extremely clear, and was
fully confessed by the prisoner
himself at the'trial, and the
jury found him guilty. But it
appeared also, that the place
inwhich this murder was committed is a part of Milford
Haven, ia the passage over the
same, between Bolwell and
the opposite shore, near the
town of Milford, the passage
there being about three miles
over. It was about seven or
eightmiles from the wouth of
the river or, open sea, and
about .sixteen miles belbw any
bridges over the river: the
water there, which was always perfectly salt, was generally above twenty-three feet
deep, and the place was, excepting at very low tides indeed, never known to be dry.
Ken of war of 9eventy-four

guns were 1hen building near
an inlet close by. the place.
In spring tides, sloops .nd'
cutters of one hundred tonsbuthen, are navigable where
the body was found, which is
also nearby opposite to wheremen of war ride. The depv-.
ty Vice Admiral of Pembroke,
shire said, that lie had qf lp.fq
employed his water bailiff to
execute process in that part of
the haven, but there was no
evidence either way, as to'the
execution of the common-law
process them.
" The court upon, this Pvi-,
dence left the case to thb
jury, with observations as.1othe situation of the place,
whether it was within the jurisdiction or not, and the jury
found the prisonerguilty ; but
the case was saved for theopi,
nion of the twelve judges.
"The question was, whe,
ther the place where the rnui.
der was committed was to b
consideredras within the limiA.
to which commissions branted
under the statute 28, HeJeiv
Vill. c. 15. for the trial of the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
The -observation of Mr. Justice Buller, in Smarf v.
1118.
sta..s W1ffa that "with respect to what is said relative to
-the admiralty jurisdiction in 4 Inst. '135., I think
,
that part of Lord Coke's work has been always reRO.&aY.
.ceved with great caution, and freqvently contradicted. He seems to have entertained, ,not only a jealousy of, but an enmity against, that jurisdiction," is
-a suflcient ansWer to any thing that depends on the
authority of Lord Coke as to this controversy. If
- then the loc, in qxo be within the admiralty jurisdiction, it is "out of the jurisdiction of any particuIlar state ," because all the states have surrendered,
-by the constitution, all the admiralty jurisdiction they
formerly possessed to the United States. The cri-

-•

ifibnees therein mentioned,
"committed in or upon the sea,
or in -any other haven, river,
creek, or place, where the
admiral or admirals have or
pretend to have power, authority or jurisdiction," do by
law e'xtend.
"The judges, with the exception of M4r. Justice Grose,
all assembled on the 23d of
D ecemner, 1812, at Lord El1enborough'schambers, to conjider this question, and they
were unanimously of opinion,
that the trial was properly
had. and that there -was no
objeciop.to the conviction, bn
.the ground of any supposed
want of jurigdictio , in the

commissioners appointed by
commission, under the statute
28 Hen. VIII. c. 15. in respect of the place where the
offence was committed. Ddring the' discssion of 'this
point, the construction of this
statute by Lord Halo in his
Pleas of the crown, was much
preferred to the doctrine of
Lord Coke in his Institutes,
"and most, if not all the judtaes,
seemed to think that the common law had a concurrent jurisdiction in this haven ; and
in other havens, creeks and
rivers in this realm." 2 Leach's
Crown Cascs, 1093. Case 3524thed. 1815.
m

a 3 T. R. 348.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

373

rninal branch of that jurisdiction has been given by
1818.
the United States to the circuit - court in the hct of 'i"t
1790, ch. 9. The locus in quo has not been shown Unit.WStates
to be witlhin the state jurisdiction. Because the state Beva,.
process has been served -therein is no proof of the
legality ofsuch seriice; and the case does not state,
that such process had been, in 'any instance, served onboard the public ships of war of the United Statese
Those ships are exempt eve'n from a foreign jurisdiction.; and, when, lying in the 'dominions of another nation, are not subject to its courts, but all civi and crimin'al causes arising on board 6f them are exclusively
cognizable in the courts of the United States. This is
a principle of public law which has its foundation in
the equality and independence of sovereign states, and
in the fatal inconvenien6es and confusion which any
other Tule would introduce. The merchant vesseJs of
a nation may be searched for contraband, for enemy's
property, or for.smuggled goods, and, as' some have
contended, for deserters, Nxhether they are on the -high
seas or in the ports of the searching power; but publie ships of war may not be searehed, whether on the
high seas or in the ports of the' power making the
search. I Thefirst may be searched any where,,except
within the jurisdiction of a neutral state. They Mi4y
be searched on the ocean ; because there all nations.
have a common jurisdiction : They may be searched in
the waters of the searching power ; because the permis.
sion to resort to its ports, (whether implied oi ex,
press,) does not import any exemption from the local

374
1818.

CASES, IN THE SUPREME COURT
jurisdiction.a The latter ( i. e.,public vessels) may not

be searched any where, neither in the ports which they
,Uni, States
enter nor on the high seas. Not in the ports whicl
Y.
Bevans. they enter; because the permission to enter implies an
exemption from the jurisdiction of the place. Nor on
the high seas ; because the common jurisdiction which
all nations have thereon does not extend to a public
ship of war, which is subject only to the jurisdiction
of the sovereign to which it belongs. Every argument
by which this exemption is sustained, as to foreign
states, applies with equal force as between the United
States and every particuldr state of the Union ; and
it is fortified by other arguments drawn from the peculiar nature and provisions of our own municipil condti,
tution. The sovereignty of the United States and of
Massachusetts are not identical ; the former have, a
distinct so-'-reignty, for separate purposes, from the
latter. Among these is the power of raising and maintaining fleets and armies for the common defence and
the execution of the laws. If any particular state had
it in its power to intermeddle with the police and government of an army or navy thus raised, upon any pre
text, there would be an end of the exclusive authority
of the-United States in this respect. Wars and other
Tneasures, unpopular in particular sections of the coun.

try, might be impeded in their prosecution, by the inter'ference of the state authorities. Such a conflict of jurisdictions must terminate in anarchy and confusion.
But the court will take care that no stich conflict shall
a The Exchange, 7 Crancll, 144.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

-

375

9uie. The judiciary act of 1789j ch. 20. s. I. giving .1 8.
to the circuit courts cognizance of all crimes and offen'
"_
States
ces cognizable under the authority of the United Stde Unit. T.
and the statute of 1790, ph. 9. declaring, that "if any Bevans.
,person shall commit upon the high- seas, or in any
river, haven, basin, or bay, out of thejurisdiction of aqy
partiwlarstate, murder, &c. he shall on conviction su'Mr death," and that "if any person or persons shall,
within any fort, &c. or in any other place or district of'
country under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the
United States, commit the crime of wilful murder, such
person or persons, on being thereof c6nvicted, shall suffet death," and a public ship of war, as well as the
%paceof water she occupies, being "out of thdttrisdiction, of any particular Ytate," and being "a place" undo
the sole and exclusivejurisdi'ctionof ths United States; '
ft follows that the circuit court of Massachusetts district$ had exclusive cognizance of this offence, which
Was committed out of the jurisdiction of any particular state, and in a place under'the sole and exclusive
Ijurisdiction of the
United States.
Mr. Webster, in reply. The argument on 'the part
of the United States is; that the circuit court' has
jurisdiction, first, because the murder was committed
on board a national -ship of war, in which no state can
exercise jurisdiction; inasmuch as ships of war are
cqnsidered as parts of thQ territory of the 'government
to which they belong, and no other go-yernment can
torke cognizance of offences committed in 'them. Two
answers may be given to tlu, argument. The first is,

376

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818. that the main inquiry being, whether the circuit court
of that c.art be' ~eshas jurisdiction, and the jurisdiction
act of congress,
the
by
it
to
given
is
as
such
only
iae,
.
Rvans. it is sufficient to say that no act of congress authorizes
that court to take cognizance of any offtrnces, merely
because committed on shipos or war. Wheher congress
might have done Ibis. or might not, it is clear that it
has not done it. It is the nature of the place ii which
the ship lies, not the character of the ship itself, that
decides the question of jurisdiction. Was the "haven"
in which the murder was cmmitted,'within the jurisdiction of'Massachusetts ? If soy no provision is made
by the act for punishing the offence in the circuit court.
The lavr 4joes not inquire into the nature of the employment or serwice in which the offender may have
been, engaged at the time of committing the offence ;
but only into the local situation or territory where it
was committed. -. If committed within the territorial
jurisdiction of a state, it excludes- the jurisdiction of
the circuit court by express words of exception. If,
therefore, it has been shown that this haven or harbour
is within the limits of Massachusetts, and under
the general common law jurisciction of that state,
the offence being committed in that harbour, cannot
be tried in the circuit court. The second answer is,
that the'dobtrine contended for is applicable only- berelation
t'Ween one sovereign power and another; a
does
States
United
the
of
government
in whijeh the
Whenever
governments.
not stard towards the state
ships of \var of the United States are within the
country, in the ports or harbours of any state, they

OF THE UNITED STATES.
are to be considered as at home. They are not then 1918.
in foreign ports or harbours, and the jurisdiction ofie Un.
states is, as to them, a domestic jurisdiction.
If
4
this be not so, persons on board'such ships, though irq Bevap
the bosom of their own country, would be in most ca-'
ses subject to no civil jurisdiction whatever. Even
persons committing offences, on land might flee onboard such ships, and escape punishment, if theycould
not be followed by state process. The doctrine cohtended for would go to a great length. The chses cited speak of-armies, as well as ships of wr; and-the
doctrine, if applicable in the latter case, is equally so ii
the former. How then are offences t9 be- pnished, if
committed by person attached to the army of the United States, while in their own country? It is adfitted,
that in England, such offehders are punished in the
courts of common law; and the 'ct of congress establishing the articles of war, also provides expressly, that
any officer or soldier accused of a capital or other crime,
such as is punishable by the known laws of the land,
shall be delivered to-the civil magistrate, in order to 6L
brobght to trial. What civil magistrate is here inten-.
ded? It must necessarily be such magistrate as acts under state authority, because no provision is made for thetrial of such offenders in the courts of the United
States. -Perhaps such provision might be made by congress, relative as well to offences committed by soldiers in the army; as by scamen'in the navy, under'th.
general power to establish rid[e§ for the government of,
the army and navy. But no such provision has hitherto been made. State process,. on the contrary, has
VoL. Ill.
49

378

CASES -IN THE SUPREME COURT

ISM- 'been constantly served and obeyed in cases proper for
t. States theinterference
of the civil authority, both in the army
;Jni.
state
V1. and navy. Writs of Habeas opus, issued by
military
by,
obeyeOl
and
TLns. judges, have been served on,
!fficers in their camps and naval commanders on
their quarter decks.a Toall these purposes the state
courts are considered as parts of the general System
of judicature estalished in the country. They are
not regaided as foreign, but as domestic tribunals.
The consequences, which it has been imagined might
follow from the exercise of state jurisliction in these
cases, are hypothetical and possihle only. Uitherto
In most
no incongenience has been experienced.
have a
would
instances'which might occur, ,this court
inconvepower of revision; and if, in other instances,
nience should be fedt, it must be attribute6. to that distribution and partition of power, which the people
have made between the gen&ral and state governments. It would be a strange inconsistency to hold
the states to 13e foreign powers in relation to the government of the United States, and to apply to them
the principles of the cases cited, and to hold their
courts to b6 judicatures existing under a foreign -ithority; when the judgments of those courts are rot
only tr6ated here as judgments of the courts of the
United States are treated, but when. also congress has
referred to them the 'execution of many laws of the'
general government, and when appeals from their decision are constantly br'ought, in the provided cases,
into this court by writ of error. It is also insisted,
A In the matter of Stacey, TO -kohns. Rep. 3 10.

OF THE UNITED STATERS.
1811.
on the ofher side, that this is a case of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, It is not a case of exclusive uat. Sta1t
admiralty jurisdiction, if that jurisdiction is to be define'd and limited in its application to the ease, by the "Bcv
general principles of the English law. And not only
must the common law be resorted to, forthe inter"pretation of the technical terms and phrases of that
science, as used in the constitution but 6lso for ascertaining the bounds intended to' Te set to the jurisdiction of other courts. In -other words, the framers
of the constit-ution must be supposed to have intended
to establish courts of common law, of equity, and-of
admiralty, upon the same general foundations, and
7
with similar 'powers,' as the courts of the same descriptions respectively, in that system of jurispru.
dence with which they were all acquainted. Is there
any doubt what answer they. would have given, if
they had been asked whether it was iheir purpose to
include in the admiralty.and maritime jurisdiction;
such cases only'as had been tried byT the courts of
that jurisdiction for a -century, or whether they intended to confer the admiralty jurisdiction, as the
civilians contend it existed before the time ef Richard
the Second ? It -issaid, ho'wever, that there has been,
a practical construction given to this provision of the
constitution, as well by congress as the courts of law,
which has, in one instance at least, and that a very
important one, departed from the limit assigned to
the admiralty by the. cormon law. -This, refers to
seizures for the violation of the laws of trade and of
the revenue ; which seizures, although made in ports
and harbours, and. within the bodies of counties, are

380

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1111. holden to be of admiralty jurisdiction, although such
nr
U . Mtate certainly is not the case in England. The existence
of this exception must be admitted. The act to establish the judicial courts provides, that the district
D 6Vat.
court "shall have exclusive origipal 'cognizance of
all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction,
including all seizures under laws ?,f impost, navigation or trade, where the seizures are made on waters
navigable from the sea, &c." -Perhaps this act need
not necessarily be so construed as to consider such
seizures ti be of admiralty jurisdiction, if they were
not such before. The word "including" might re'fer to the general powers of the court, and not to the
words immediately preceding, viz. " admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction." But then such seizures, like
other civil causes, are, by the constitution, to be tried
by jury, unless they be of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction ; and it must be admitted that this court
has repeatedly decided, that they are of admiralty
jurisdiction, and are not to be tried by jury. The
Jfirst case is that of La Vengeance. The opinion of
the court was delivered in this case, without giving
The next
the reasons upon which it was founded.a
is the Sally.b Thi§ was decided without argument, and
expressly on the authority of the preceding case. The
point was, made again in The United States v. The Betsey and Charlottec and decided as it had been before;
the court considering the law to be completely set.
fled by the case of the The Vengeance. Two subsequent cases, the Samuel and the Octaviad have
a S Dall. 297.
d I Wheat. 9. 20.

b 2 Cranch,406

c 4 Cr)jfnch, 443,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
been disposed of in the same manner. As was said in
181
the argument of 'Lie case last cited, the arguments ur,
Sate
ged against the doctrine, in all the-cases subsequent to
1.
the Vengeance, have always been answered by a refer- Bevano
ence to the authority of that case. As these case$
have all bgen decided, without any exhibition of tlIW
-grounds and reasons on which the decisions rest, they
afford little light for analogous case§, They show, thvA
in one respect, admiralty jurisdiction. Where to be taken to be more comprehensive than it is in England.
It will not follow that it is to be so taken in all respects. If this were to follow, it would be impossible
to nd any bound or limit at all. it is admitted, that
this exception from the English doctrine of admiralty
jurisdiction does exist here. But if distinct and satisfactory reasons for the exception can he shown, this
will rather strengthen than invalidate the g~neraJ position. Such reasons may, peihaps, be found in the
history of the American colonies, and of the vice-admiralty courts established in them by the crown. Th#
first and grand object of the English navigationi act.
(12 Cb. II.) seems to hiive been the plantation tradea
It was provided by that act, that none but English ship,
should carry the plantation commodities; and that thg
principal articles should be carried only to the Mother
country. By the subsequent act of 15 Ch. 1, the
supplying of the plantations with European gooc:s wameant to be confined wholly to the mother ouatry. Strict rules were laid down to secure thp due
a Reeve's Hist. Law

f Ship. 45.

CASES-IN TEE SUPREME COURT
execution of these acts, and heavy
Unit. gt6'iaeon such as. shiould violate them.
enforce the provisions of these were
r.
3}vans. rules, and new penalties, in the
ifg.

penalties imposed
Other statutes to
passed, with other
subsequent years

of the same reign. "In this manner was the trade
to and from the plantations tied up, almost for the
sble and e.c'usive benefit of the mother country.
But laws whieImnade the interest of a whole people
subordinate to that of another, residing at the distance
of three thousand miles, we-re not likely to execute
themselves very readily; nor was it easy to find
many upon the spot who could be depended upon for
carrying them into execution."a In fact, these laws
were, more or less, evaded or restricted in all the
colonies. To enforce them was the constant endea*our of the government at home; and to prevent or
elude their operation the constant object of the colonries. "But the laws of navigation were no where
disobeyed znd contemned so openly as in NewEngland. The people of .TXassachvsetts Eay were,from
the 'first, disposed to" act as if independent of the
mao er country; and having a governor and magisfrates of their own choice, it was very difficult to
enforce any regulations which came from the English' parliament, and were adverse.to their colonial
inierest."1b No effectual means of enforcing the several
acts of navigation hnd trade had been found, when,
ift 1696, the act of 7 and 8 Will. III, oh. 22.
was 'passed, for prevenhing frauds, and regulating
absesin the plantationtrade. This act gave a new
a Bees, 55.

bid. 57.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

AEP

IBI.
body of regulations ; and, among other things, because
iatgreat difficulty had been experienced in procuring con
victions, new qualifications '-ere required for jurors, *."
.
who should sit in causes if alteged violation of the Bg
laws; and the officer or informer might elect' to - bring
his prosecution in any county within the colony. All
these correctives were of little force, so that the government soon after, with the view of securing the execution
of this and the other acts of trade and. navigation, proceeded to institute courts of admrira!!yt.a These conrts appear to have claimed jurisdiction in, causes of alleged
violation of.the laws of trade and navigation, upon the
construction of this act of 7 and 8 Will. III. In 1702.
the Board oIfTrade, "being doub'tful," as they say, "of
the true jurisdiction of the admir alty," desired to be
informed by the Attorney and Advocate General, (Sir
Edward Northey and Sir John Cooke,) "whether the courts of admiralty, in the plantations, by viirtte ot the7 and 8 oeKing William, or any other act, have there
any further jurisdiction than is exerdised in Ergland ?
Whether the courts of admiralty, in the plantations,
can take cognizance of questions which arise conce'rning the importatioft or exportation of an. , goods to or
from them, or of frauds in mattex,' of ff'de ? AnI in
case a vessel sail up any river with prohibited goods,
intended for the use of the inhabitants, whether the
informer may choose in what caurthe will prosecutein the court of admiralty, or of common. lw?" The
opinion of the Attorney General was, that "the act
(7 and 8 Will. III:) gave the admiitIlty court in'theaId. 70.

CASES IN TH1

SUPREME COURT

plantations, jurisdiction of all penalties and forfeitures
for unlawful trading, eit.her in defrauding the king in
V-., his customs, or imparting into, or exporting out of%
Bevans. the plantations, prohibaed goods; and of all frauds in
matters of ttnde, and offences against the acts of trade
committed in the plantations :" and he mentions the
case of Colonel Quarry, judge of the admiralty in
Pennsylvania, then pending in the Queen's Bench, in
which a judicial decision on the poit might be expected. The opinion of tl.e Advocate General wasofcourse, equally favourable to the admiralty jurisdidtion.a On this construction of the statute, the
courts of admiralty in the colonies assumed jurisdiction over causes arising from violation of the laws of
trade and of revenue ; "and from this time," says
Mr, Reeves, "there seems to have been a more general oabedieni~e to the acts of trade and navigaton."
This jurisdiction continued to be exercised by the
colonial courts of admiralty down to the period of therevblution ; and is still'exercised by the coarts of those
colonies, which retain their, dependence on the Brilish crown.b This may be the ground on which it
haas been suwed that the states of the union, in
forming a new government, and granting to it jurisdiction in admiralty and mariiirie causes, might be
presumed to have included in the grant the authority
to take cognizance of causes arising from the violation of the laws relative to customs, navigation, and
Isla.

&. C"tnalmis' Opinions of E ninent Lawyers, 187, 193,
b Bro. Civ, 4- Adrta. Law, 492. ! Rob. 248.

OF THE UNITED STATPM

aft

11
trade. All the colonies had'seen this authority exere
"n'tStatescised as matter of maritime jurisdiction. It was not Unit.
V.
cornbut
them,
of
one
any
of
courts
the
to
peculiar
mon-toall. It had been engrafted on the original Bevans.
admiralty powers of these courts for neat a century.
They were familiar to the exercise of this jurisdic- •
tion, as an admiralty jurisdiction. It had been incorporated with their admiralty jurisdiction, by statute ; and they'had long regarded it as a part of theordinary and established authority of such courts..
There migitt be reason, then, for supposing, that those.
who made the constitution., intended tp -onfer this.
power as they found it. And if any other exception
to the-English definition, and limitation of the powerof courts of admiralty, can be found to have been asearly adopted, as uniformly received, as long. practised
upon, and as intimately interwoven with the system of.
colonial jurisprudence, there will be equal reason to
believe that the framers of the constitution had regard.
to such exception also. Such exceptions do not impeach the rule-. On the contrary, their effect is to establish it. If the exception when examined, appears
to stand on grounds peculiar to itself, the'inference is,
that where no peouliar reasons exist for afi exception;.
such exception does npt exist- In the case before the
court, no reason is given, to induce a belief that an exception does exist. No practice ofV excluding the.
common law courts from the, cognizance of crimes.
.ommitted in ports and harbours, is shown to have ekisted in any colony. There can be no doubt, thereso
Vorp. II I.

CAS

"IN THE SUPRFME COUR'

181 . fore, that, saving such exceptions as can be reasonabi-f
-%"accounted for, the admira ty jurisdiction was intended
Unit. States to be given to the courts of the United States, in the
ievar,.. extent, and subject tofr the limits, which belonged to it
in that sysiem of jurisprudence with which those who
f6rmed the cdnstitution were well'acquainted.

Ab . 4rL

Alr. Chief Justice' MARsIIALI; delivered the opinion
of the court. The question proposed by the circuit
court, which will be first consifered, is,
Whether the ofrnce charged in this indictment was,
according to the statement of facts which accompanies
the question, "within tfie jurisdiction or cognizance of
the circuit court of the United States for the districtof
Massachusetts;"
The indictment appears to be founded on the 8th
sec. of tfie Ilact for the punishment of ccrtain crimes
against the United States." That section gives the
coits of the union cogniza. ce of certain offences committed on the high seas, or in any river, h'aven, basin;
or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any pae'ticular
state.
Whatever may be the constitutional power of congress, it is Ciear that this power'has not been so exer_
cised, in thi's section of the act; as to confer on its
courts jurisdiction over any offence committed in a
river, haven, basin or bay ; whiih river, haven, basin,
or bay; is within'the jurisdiction of any particular
state.
What th~n is the extent of jurisdicti6n which a state
possesses?

W nswer, without' hesiatioz

the jurisaiction of

OP'THIt UNITED STATE'.

. M,

MS18.
a state is co-extensive with its territory ; :o-extensive
Stat
-with its legislative power..Unit.
, y,
The place described is unquestionably within the original territory of Massachust-ts' It is then within the ;Beya=.
jurisdiction of Massachnsetts, *unless that juri~diction
has been ceded1 by the United States.
It is contended to have Leen ceded by that article
in the constitution which declares, that "the judicial
power shall extend to all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction." The argunient is, that the power
thus granted is exclusive ; and that the murder com
mitted by the prisoner is a case'of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction.
Let this be admitted. .It proves the power' of congress to legislate in the case ; not that PdAgress has
exercised that power. It has been argued,-and the argument in a favour of, as well as that against the lropbsition deserves great congideration, that courts of
comrmon law have concurrent jurisdiction with courts
of admiralty, over murder com:nitted in bays, which are
inclosed parts of the sea ; and that for this reason the
offence is within the jurisdiction of Massachusetts.
But in constkiing the act of. c6ngress, the court believes it to be unnecessary to pursue ihe investigation
*hich has been so, well made at the bar -respectibig the
jurisdiction of these, rival courts.
To brb',g the offence within the jurisliction of the
courts of the uni,'n, it must have been committed in a'
river, &c. out of the jurisdiction of any state. Itis not
the offence eonmrittedl, but the bay ia which it is conwitted, which must be out of the jurisdi6tion, of the

388

'CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'

state. If, then, it should be true that Massachusetts
18 1S.
Unit. Sascan take no cognizance of the offence; yet, unless the
place itself be out of her jurisdiction, congress has not
v
,Bevans. given cognizance of that offence to its courts. If there
be a common jurisdiction, the crime cannot be punished
in the courts of the union.
Can the cession of all cases of admiralty and maritime turisdiction be construed into a cession of the waters on -which those cases may arise:
This is a question on which th court is incapable
of feeling a doubt. The article which describes the judicial power of the -United States is not intended for
the cession of territory or of general jurisdiction. It
is obviously designed for other purposes. It is in the
8th section of the 2d article, we are to look for cessions
,of territory and of exclusive jurisdiction. Congress
has power to exercise exclusive juisdiction over this
district, and over all places purchased by the consent
.of the legislature of the state in which the same shall be,
,for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dock
yards, and other needful buildings.
-It is observable, that the power of exclusive legislation (which is jurisdiction) is united with cession of
territority, wlich is- to be the free act of the states.
It is difficult to compare the two sections together,
without feeling a conviction, not to be strengthened by
-any commentary on them, -that, in describing the judicial power, the femers of our constitution had not in
view any cession of territory, or, which is essentially
the same, of general jurisdiction.
it is not questioned, that vhatever may be necessary
to the full and Unlimited exercise of admiralty

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18I1.
and maritime jurisdiction, is in thegovernment of thL
States
unit.
neces
are
whlch
all
laws
pass
may
Congress
union.
v.
sary and proper for giving the most complete effect to
this power. Still, the gie:iral jurisdiction over' the Bevam
place, subject to this grantof power, adheres to the territory, as a portion of sovereignty not yet given away.
,The residuary powers of legislation are still in Massachusetts. Suppose for e'ample the power of regulating trade had not been giv en to the general government, Would this exte nsion of the judicial power to
all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, have
devested Massachusetts of the power to regulate the
trade of her bay? Ag the powers of the respective governments now stand, if two citizeng of Massachusetts
step into shallow water when the tide flows, and fight
a dueli are they not within the jurisdiction, and punishable by the laws of Massachusetts? If these questions must be answered in the affirmative, and we believe they must, then the bay in which this murder was
committed, is not out of the jurisdiction of a state, and
the circuit court of Massachusetts is not authorized, by
the section under consideration, to take cognizance of
the murder which ha'I been committed.
It nay be deemed within the scope of the quesuon
certified to this court, to inquire whether any other part
of the act has given cognizance of thismurder to the
circuit court of Massachusetts?
The third section enacts, "that if-any person or persons shall, within any fort, arsenial, dockyard, magazine, or in any other place, or district of country, under
th- sole and exclusive jurisdiction rf the United

CAsES IN T11P., SUPREME COURT
1818.
V.
Bevan.

States, commit the crime of wilful murder, such person or persons, on being thereof convicted, shall suffer
death."
Although the bay on which this murder was committed might not be out of the juris-liction of Massachusetts, the ship of war on. the deck of which it was
committed, is, it has been said, "a place within*the sole
•and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States," whose
courfs may consequently take cognizance of the
offence.
That a government which possesse§ the broad power
'f war; which "may provide and maintain a navy;"
:which "may make rules for the government and regulation of the land and navel forcds,".has power to punish an offence committed by a marine on board a ship
of war, wherever that ship may lie, is a pioposition
never to be 'questioned in this court. On this section,
as on the 8th, the inquiry respects, not the extent of
the power of Congress, but the extent to which that
power has been exercised.
The objects with which the word "pace" is associa ted, are all, in their nat'ure, fixed and territorial. A
fort, an arsenal, a dock-yard, a magazine, are all
of this character. When the sentence proceeds with
the words, "or in any other plitce or district of country under the sole and exclusive 'jurisdiction of the
United States-" the construction seems irresistible
that, by the words "other place" was intended
another place of a similar charactee with those previously enumerated, and with that which follows.
Congress might have'.omittel, in its enumeration,
smi odsimilar place within its exclusive jurisdictioa

O

THE UNITED-STATES. .

auk

which was not comprehendedby any ofthe terms em- 1818.
VlQye! to which some other name might be given;unit States
v
and, therpfore, the words "other place," or "district of
country," were" added; 13t the context shows the mind Bevans.
of the legislature to huve been; fixed on territorial objects of a similar char'acter.
This cohstruction is strengthened' by the fact fhatr
at the time of passing this law, the United States didnot posse ,a single ship of war. It may, theief6re, be
reasonably supposed, that a provision'for the punfishmentof crimes, in the navy might be postponed 'until some
provision for a navy should be Madl. While taking
'this view of the subject, it is not entirely unworthy of
remark, that arterwards, when a navy was c'eated, ind!
congress did not proreed to make rules for its regulhtion and'government, no jurisdiction is given'to the-

courts of the Unite.J States, of any crime committed in
a ship-of war, -wiere'er it riy be- -ationed.a. Upon
these reasons the co.art is-of opinion. that a murder

committed on board a ship of war, -lying within: the'
.4arbourof Boston, is not eognizable in the circuit
court for the district tfMassacilfisetts ; which opinion

is to be certif ed to that court.
The opinion of the court, on tliis loint, 'is believed.
to render it unnecessary o qecide tbe question respect- •
ing the jurisdiction ofth& ptate court in the case.
Certificate accordingly..
,a Thi-I it is conceived, re- tlh United Statese, proceoing
fers to the ordinary courts of according to tho law of the

