OF THE UNITED STATES
exactly the same law of nations with ourselves; yet in
matters of contract between
such persons, or between them
and other foreigners, courts of
justice have notThought themselves at liberty to act otherwise, than by the general rules
applicable to all forensic business. Thfe Jerusalem, 2 Gal-.
lis, 191-201.
The case of the rescue of
captured -vessels and cargoes
from the enemy, by the insurrection of the persons on
board, is not provided for by
our salvage act or the British
statute. Nor is the case of res,cue mentioned in the French

and other continental ordinances. Restitution to the original owner, is, however, universally decreed in such cases
without regard to the length
of time the recaptured proper
ty may have been in the enemy's possession ; and the rate
of salvage is discretionary and
dependant upon the Value of
the services perfo;med. The
Two Friends, 1 Rob. 2,71.
The Walker, Stewart, 105."
Palin, "Traie'des Prises,, ch.
6, s. 1, n. 18.

Bonnemant's

Translationof f De Habreu,
tom. 2, o. 84. Ernerigo,, Des
Afssurances, tow. 1, p. 505.

(COMMON LAW).
LANUSSE-V. BARKE R.
13. a merchant in New-York, wrote to L.,,a merchant in New-Orleans,
on the 9th of January, 1806, mentioning that a ship belonging to T
& Son, of Portland, was ordered to Now-Orleans for freight, and requesting L. to procure a freight for her, and [purchase and put on
board of her five hundred bales of cotton on the owners' account;
:for the payment ofall shipments on owners' account, thy bills on T.
-&Son, of Portland, or me, 60 days sight; shall meet due honour."
On the 13th ofFebruary, B. again wrote to L. reiterating the fornoer
request, and enclosing a letter from T. & Son to L. containing their
instructions to L. with whom-thay afterwards continued to corres,pood, adding, "'yfhiUson .ne io their account, foag<tton they order

1818;
Lanusse
V.

Barker'

02
18181
S
LanusSe
V.
Barker.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
shipped by the Macs,shall meet with due honour." On the 24th of
July, 1P06, B. again wrote L. on the same subject, saying, "the owners wish her loaded on their own account, for the payment of which,
thy bille ma
ine shall meet with due honour at 60 day's sight." L.
proceeded to purchase and ship the cotton, and drew several bills
on B. which were o'Paid. He, afterwards, drew two bills on
T. & Son, payable in New-York, which were protested Cor non-payment, they having, inthe meantime, failed; and about tw5 years afterwards, drew bills on B. for the balance due, including the two pro
tested bills, damages, and interest.
Held thatthe letters of the 13tli of February, and 24th of July, contained no revocation of the undertaking in the letter of the 9th of January; that although the bills on T. & Son were not drawn according to
B's assumption, this could billy affect the right of L. to recover the
damages paid by him on the return of the bills, but that L. had still,
a right to recover on the original guaranty of tle debt.
It was also held that L. by making his election to draw upon T. 4" Son,
in the first instance, did not, thereby, preclude himself from resorting
to B., who ie undertaking was, in effect; a premise to furnish the
funds necessary to carry into 6xecution the adventure. Also, held
that L. had a right to recover from B. th commissions, disbursemonts, and other charges of the transaction.
Where a general authority is given to draw bills from a certain place
oh account of advances thera made, the undertaking is to replace
the money at that place. In this case, therefore, the legal interest at
New Orleans was aliowed.
An agreement of the parties entered on a transcript, siating the amount
of damages to be adjudged teone of the parties upon several alternatives, (the verdict stating no alternative,) not regarded by this court
as a part of the record brought up by the writ of error; but a renire
de novb awarded to have the damages assessed by a jury in the court
below.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of NewYork.
This was an action of assumpsit brought in the
circuit court of New-York by the plaintiff in error,
against the defendant, to recover. the- amount of 500
bales of cotton, shipped by the plaintiff from New-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

•103

1818.
Orleans, on account of John Taber & Son, of PortLanusse
promalleged
the
land, in the district of Mpine, upon
V.
ise of the defendant to pay for the same, with the inBarker.
cidental disbursements and expenses.
At the trial a verdict was taken, and judgment rendered thereon for the defendant, and the cause was
brought up to this court by writ of error.
On the 19th of December, 1805, the defendant, a
merchant in New-York, wrote a letter to the plaintiff, a
merchant in New-Orleans, containing,- among other
things, the following passage:
"I am loading the ship Mac for Jamaica; she bel6ngr
Son, Portland, whio I 'ext6 myfriends, John Taber ",
pect, will order her fcom thence to N. Orleans, to thy
address for a freight, and in that case, if thee makes any
shipments for my account to the port where she may bebound, give her'the preference of the freight."
This.letter was received by the plaintiff on the 6th
of February, 1806.
On the 9th of January, 1806, the defeidant wrote to
the plain tiff the following letter:
"(Original per blac.)

N€ew- York, 1st month, 9th,. 1806.
PAUL LANUSSE, zsQ.
Friend,
Esteemed
E,
"This will be handed you by Captain Robert Swaine,
of the Portland ship Mac, which vessel is bofind from
this to Jamaica, and from thence to New-Orleans in
pursuit of freight; she will be to -thy address ; she is
a good ship, between* three and four years old, has

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
an American register ; is of an easy draft of water 1 all
though rather large ; a freight for Liverpool will be
Lanusse
preferred ; if not to be had, for such other port as thee
V.
Barker. thinks proper, send her. If no .freight offers for Europe, send her to this, or some neighbouring port, -with
allthe freight that can be haa4.which I have not any
doubt will b6 sufficient to load her ; if thee can get
three-fourths as much for this port as for Europe, I
should prefer it; if not, I should prefer a freight to
Europe, Immediately after her. arrival, I wish thee to
commence loading her on owner's account, who wish
thee to ship five hundred bales on their account, but
do not wish to limit the quantity, a few bales move or
less according as freight offers ; and for the payment of
all shipments on owner's account, thy bills on them,
John Taber & Son, Portland, or me, at sixty days
sight, shall meet due honour; all shipments on own.
er's acco'unt, if the ship goes for Liverpool, address to
Rathbone, Hughes, and Duncan; if for London, Thom
as lullet and Co. ; if Bordeaux, to John Lewis Brown
& Co. ; if Nantz or Cherbourg, Preble, Spear & Co. ; if
Antwerp, J. Ridgway, Merting & Co. ; if Amsterdam,
Daniel Cromelin & Sons. , Captain Swaine will take a
sufficiency of specie from Jamaica for ship's disbursements; please write me often, and keepme advised of
the state of your market. &c. Of thy shipments by the
Mac on owner's account, let as much go on deck as
can be safely secured, and have her despatched from
your port as soon as possible.
Thy esteemed friend,
JACOB BARKER."
1818.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
And on'the 26th of -January, 1806, the defendant
wrote the plaintiff as follows :
"Since writing thee under date of the 9th 'instant,
I have engaged for the sai Mac the freight of eight
hundred bales Qf cotton from New-Orleans to Liverpool, agreeably to the enclosed copy of charter party.
I have therefore, to request thy exertions in dispatching
her for Liverpool, filling her up either on freight, or
owner's account, and particularly fill her deck and
quarters on owner's account. Her owners wish large
shipments of cotton made bn their account, which, if
bills can be negotiated on New-York, I haye informed
them thee would 'make; I, however, am clearly of
opinion, that it will'be more for their interest to have
her filled up on freiglt ; on this subject I shall write
thee again more fully. Capt. Swain. will take with
him from Jamaica, eight thousand Spanish dollars, for
my private'account, which I wish invested in cotton."
This letter.was written on the same sheet of paper, and
immediately following a duplicae of the 'preceding letter of the 9th .of January, and was received by the
plaintiff on the 18th of March, when he wrote an answer, saying, I on my. part, nothing shall be Wianting to
satisfy the contracting parties, when the! ship arrives,
'and your instructions shall be strictly 'observed,conforming myself to the latter you gave, and in case of
necessity, I think, itwill be eaty to place bills."
On the 13th February, 1806, the defendant wrote t6
the plaintiff as follows':.
"Enclosed, I hand thee a letter from the owners of
ship IMac, to which I have only to ad, tha.t thy bills
VOL. III.

15

1818.
La'nusse
W
Barker

CASES" TN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

on me for their account for the cotton they order, shipped by th6 Mac, shall meet due honour."

Lanusse
On the 29th of August, 1806, the 1 laintiff wrote the
v.
-Barker. defendant:
"A few days ago I was favo.red with a few lines
from Messrs. John Taber & Son, importing that they
wrote to. you, to Capt. Swaine, and pe, such directions
as youmight thinkproper, but I have not as yet been
favoured -with any of yours. The Mac remains precisely.in the same situation. 4250 dollars demurrage,
have been paid on her account, and I only wait ?or further information from youj to act, in case demurrage is
refused."
On the 24th of July, IS06, the defendant wrote the
plaintiff as follows:
"Relative to the unfortunate situation of the Mac, I
have to observe, that if she remains at your port idle,
Fontaine Maury, or his agent there, must pay the demurrage every day, or the master must protest, and
end the charter; as long as the demurrage is paid,
agreeable to charter party, the ship mupt wait ; as
soon as that is not done, the' captain or owners' agent
can end the voyage by protesting, and entitle the owners to recover their full freight ; so that thee had better take the eight hundred bales, on account of Fontaine Maury at a low rate, than to subject him to such
a heavy loss ; thee will on receipt, of this be pleased
to receive the demurrage daily, or end the charter, and
despatch her for Liverpool on owners" account, taking
all the freight that offers, and fill her up -with as much
cotton as possible, [not less than five hundred bales,]
log ood and staves, as it will not answer to keep so
-valuabl a ship there any longer, -ithout earning some-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
thing for her owners. Although I say fill her up with
1818.
cotton, logwood, and staves, on owners' account, thee Lanuss
will please understand, that I shoild prefer her being
v.*
be
Barker.
can
;
if
that
party
charter,
to
despatched agreeable
dope, I prefer ber taking freight for Liverpool, excepting about five hundred bales, the o ,ners, wish shipp'ed
on their account; yet rather than have her there idle,
the owners wish her loaded on their own account; for
the,payment of which, thy bills on me shall meet due,
honour at 60 days sight, which I presume thee-can easily negotiate.2
On the'26th of September, S0b,.the plaintiff wrote
the defendant
"Since my respectful last of 29th August, 1 am favoured with your much esteemed of 24th July, the
contents'of which I have duly noticed."
"I have to inform you of the- disaster which has befallen the Mac. On the might of the 16th and -17th
inst. 'we experienced a most violent gale; which has
done great injury to the shipping, and drove the MaG
from her moorings to a considerable distance from the
town," &e. "Nor can I flatter you of procuring either freight for her, or accomplishing your older before
December," &a.
On the 6th of September, 1806, the defendant wrote
the plaintiff as follows:
"Since I ast had this pleasure, ordering a protest
2gainst the charterers of the Mac, and that Vessel des-patched on owners' account for Liverpool, with staves,
logwood, and cotton, I have not received any of thy
acceptable communications. I now confirm that order,

CASES91N THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

and request, if a full cargo be not engaged for the
Ma'c, on receipt of this, that you ship two hundred
Lanusse
bales of cotton for-my account, to the address of Marv.
Barker. tin, Hope & Thornley, and thy bills on me, at 60°days
sight, shall meet due honour for the same. On receipt
of this, lose no- time in purchasing. the two hundred
bales, and what may be yet wanted for the ship on
owners' account, as a very considerable rise has taken
plarce in that article at LiV'erpool ; therefore, thee will
_not lose any time in making the purchase."
On the 10th of Otobef, 1806, the- defendant wrote
the plaintiff:
"By thy letter of the 29th of August, to John Taber
, Son, I observe thee'had an idea of sending the Mae
here, if a freight did not soon offer,. which I think thee
would not (on' reflection) do, if a freight from this port
did not offer, as she had much better remain at NewOrleans than be sent here in ballast. Therefore request,
if she is.not despatthed agreeable to charter party, that
she remain at yo~ir port until a freight can be obtained
for her, with what thee can ship on owner's accountThey wish at least five hundred bales of cotton. I hope
thee did not ship logwiod,,as I find that article will
not.pay any freight therefore, it thee ha, not made
a shipment of that arti 'Ie, please omit it. Thee must,
of course, keep the ship as longas demurrage is
paid."
On the 26th of November, 1806, the defendant wrote
the plaintiff.

'OF -THE UNITED STATES.

10

1818.
"I wish the Mac got off as soon' as possible, and
~Lanugse
when I wish five hundredbales
prepared for a voyage;
of cotton shipped, on account of her owners, for Liv- v.
erpool, and the ship filled up with freight goods, even Barker.
at a low rate: if freight should be scarce, and thee can
purchase good flour at about.four.and a half dollars
per barrel, thee will please to ship from five hundred
to one thousand barrels, on account of the'owners of,
the Mac, and on thy making any purchase for those
objects, inform Rathbone, Hughes & Duncan, Liverpool, by letter duplicate and triplicate, requesting
them to have the full amount of thy shipment on owners) account insured, stating particularly wheh thee
expects the ship to leave New-Orleans, &c., &c.
If cotton falls to twenty cents, please ship- five
hundred bales of'cotton for my account, by the Mac,
consigned to Martin, Hope Thornley, drawing on
me at sixty dayb for the same. I do not wiih a
bale shipped at a higher price than- twenty cent ,
and I hope thee will engage the freight as low as I 1-2d.
My only reason for ordering it in the Mac is to assist
her owners; therefore, if- a full charter offers for herr
or if any thing should prevent her going, thee will
ship five hundred bales by some other good vessel, or
vessels."
On the 29th of December, 1806, the defendant wrote
the plaintiff :
"I am favoured with thy letter of the 7th, by which
I am pleased to observ'e the Mac was off, and likely to
be despatched for Liverpool. Her owners are desirous
that she be despatched for that- place without delay)
as,I mentioned to thee in my last letter on the subject

CASES IN THE SUPREME CORUt

10

of the Mac's business. If thee has contracted for the
cotton, or any-part thereof, that I ordered, let all that
Lanusse
has'been contracted for be shipped according to my
v.
Barker. last request, but do not purchase a bale, for my account,
after this letter reaches thee, above sixteen cents, as
that article has become very dull at Liverpool, and
likely to be low, in consequence of the success of the
French army on the continent. If thee can purchase
at or under sixteen cents, before May, thee may
purchase and ship such part of the five hundred bales
,as has not been purchased before this letter reaches
1818.

thee."
On the 22d of January, 1807, the plaintiff wrote the
defendant as follows :
"I havb now commenced the purchase of cotton
for account of Messrs. John Taber &"Son, and have
paid hitherto twenty-two cents ca sh, at which price
seventy two bales were ready to 'be shipped, as I expect to find an opportunity of placing my bills upon
you. I'shall complete the purchase of 500 bales,
which will be necessary, in order to get a full freight,"
Sfe. "I have now to inform you, that I have drawn on
you, under date of the 15th of January, for 1,800 dollars. Say eighteen hundred dollars, payable sixty
days after sight, to the order of Mr. A. Brasier, in
Philadelphia, which draft goes on account of the 72
bales of cotton already purchased, and request you to
honour the same."
And on the same day he wrote the defendant:
"The present merely serves to inform you, that I have
this day valued upon you.

'OF THE UNITED STATES.
$1,370
Order Joseph Thebaud.
607 23 Declaire & Count.
1100
Steihen Zacharie.
$3077 23 sixty days after sight, and refer to my
letter of this day."
On the 13th of Febtuary, 1807, he wrote the defendant:
"I have engaged 150 bales for account of Messrs.
John Taber & Son, at Market price, which I expect in
town in a few days, when I shall without delay ship the
same on board the Mac, making the 220 bales in all.
This comaiencement, I hope will encourage shippers
to give us some freight; at all events I shall keep you
duly advised of my proceedings. Under date of the
6th inst. I took the liberty of valuing upon you 301
dollars 22 1-2 cents sixty days ofter sight, to the order
of Jacdb D. Stagg; on the 12th inst. $673 to the order
of Samuel Lord, and shall continue drawing as opportunity offers.
On the 16th of the same'month he wrote the defendant :
"The present merely serves to inform you, that I
have this (lay valued upon you 600 dollars. , Say six
hundred dollars to the order of Benjamin Labarte,
sixty days after sight, and request you to honour the
same, and place to account of J. T. & S."
On the 20th of February, 1807, the defendafit wrote
the plaintiff:

1818
Laziusse,

V.
Barker;

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
Lanusse

'~'progressing

v.
Barker.

"I am in daily expectation of hearing of the Mae's
fOr Liverpcol. Before this reaches thee,
I hope she will have sailed; if not, please lose no time
in despatching her. That thee may be fully acquainted with the wishes of her'owners, I annex a copy of
the last letter I have receiv'ed from them, and request
thee to comply with their wishes in every particular."
The copy of the letter fro'm John Taber & Son, referred to in this letter, is as follows
"Port!and, d mo. 9, 1S07.
"JAcoB BARKER,

"By last mail we received thy favour of the 2d inst.
We
enclosing one from Captain Swaine to thee.
notic,- thy proposition for us to give liberty for the
Mac to take freight for any port in Europe, but as
we have fgot her and her freight insured in Liverpool, at and from New-Orleans to that port, we wish to
have her go there, even if -we load on owners' accodnt. We are well satisfied that Lanusse hath not
yet loaded her, as we have no doubt cotton will be
much'lower in a short time. And a'swe apprehend
that shippers of cotton will now turn their attention to
other parts of Europe, we think the probability is, that
cotton will be in demand in Liverpool by the time
the Mac will arrive there, we likewise think it Nill
answer to ship good flour, and probably some
good staves can be purchased; we had rather have
her loaded on our own account with tho e three
articles, than to take freight for any other port, but
we think there can be no doubt, but that when she
begins to load on owners' account, that some consi-

itiC

OF THE TINITED STATES.
derable freight can be obtained.' We really wish thee
to write Lanusse to despatch her, with liberty to
take two thousand barrels of good fresh flour, if freight
does not offer sufficient with the five hundred bales
of cotton before ordered, to load her without delay;
as we have no doubt good flour will answer, and we
cannot think of her 'being longer detained at NewOrleans.
We remain, thy assured friends.
JOHN TABER & SON."
(Signed)
And on the 3d of March, 1807, the plaintiff wrote
the defendant:
" The present merely gerves to inform you, that I
hav this day valued upon you 10,000 4Iolars. Say
ten thousand dollars, payable .sixty days after sight,
to the order of Mr. Thomas Elmes, and 'request you
to honour the same, and place to account of J. T.
& S.,,
On the 6th of March, 1807, he again wrote the
defendant :
"I refer to my respectfal last of 13th, 16th 24th
ult. and 3d inst. the contents of which I confirm. On
the 16th I valued, upon you for 600 dollars, and on
the 3d inst. for 10,000 dollars, making in all the sumi
of 16,351 3 3-4 cents,'on account of the shipment per
Mac, for account of Messrs. John Taber '& Son. I
have already bought 72 bales at 22 cents, 107 do. zt
20 3-4 cents, 175 do. at 20 1-2 cents, together 354 bales,
pnd 30m. staves, amounting to about 22,000 dollars.
There remains 146 bales more to be purchased, which
I hope to get; the total amount, with charges and corn16
VOL. III.

1818.
Lanusse
vBarker.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
"1818.

~
Lanusse,
V.

mission, will be about 34,000 dollars-for which sum I
shall o'rder Messr.. Rathbone, Hughes & Duncan, to
get insurance effected.

I shall continue to draw on

Barker. you as occasion piesents."
- On the l1th of March, 1807, he wrote the defendant, informing him that he had drawn on the defendant to the order of Mr. F. Depau, for 6,000 dollars,
and to the order of Mr: J. P. Ponton for 691 dollars
and 50 cents.
On the 15"h of April, 1807, the defendant wrote the

plaintiff:
"I have this rmoment received the unpleasant information of the failure of John Taber & Son, therefore beg the favour of thy taking every precaution to
secure my caim on them fo: the payment of the cotton
thee has shipped for their account by the Mac. If that
ship has not got clear of your river, take up the bills
of lading and fill up new bills, consigning the cotton
to my order, forwarding me several of the bills, and
instruct Captain Swaine to hold the cotton until he
bears from me; and if part of the old set have gone
on, let them go, but take a new set, and make all the
freight money payable to my order, and if'she bas got
clear of the river, mate an arrangement with the
shippers of the cotton to pay thee the freight money,
and give them a receipt for it, forwa. ding that receipt
to Liverpool, but for the consignee to keep as a secret
that the freight money has been paid, until they get all
the freight goods."
And on.the 16th of April, 1807, the defendant again
-yrote the plaintiff:

OF THE UNITED STATES.

Ill

1818.
"I have taken the best counsel, and find the goods
Lanusse
per ship Mac can be stopped for thy account 'i
v.
my
in
steps
transitt, and have therefore taken.P1l the
Barker.
succeed
shall
and
effectied;
power to have that object
so far as to keep'the property at thy disposal until
thy power reaches Martin, Hope & Thornley, which
will enable them to hold the property for thy use;
therefore send the power by the packet and send duplicates and triplicatesby other vessels, and several
copies by mail and packet to me to be forwarded;
also draw on Rothbone, Hughes & Duncan, for the
whole amount of'shipment, ordering Martin, Hope
& Thornley, to pay them 1000 pounds of the amount
drawn xor, if they accept 'the bills. Confirm what I
have wiitten, copies of which I enclose for thy government. Thy bills on me will all be protested for
non-payment, that thee can say thee has not received
pay for the cotton, but shall endeavour to furnish
money that will prevent disappointment to the holders. This, my counsel tells me, is indispensable, to enable thee.to benefit by transiti, which cannot be done
by any other person, nor by thee after thee gets pay for
the goods shipped."
And on the same day the defendant wrote to Martin,
Hope and Thornley, of Liverpool, as follows
" I enclose a letter written as agent and friend of
Paul Lanusse to Rathbone, Hughes and Duncan,
which you will have the goodness to hand them, anc
make a memorandum of, the delivery, and endeavour to make the contract for Lanusse as therein
mentioned, and I *ill indemnify you from all loss
in so doing; if you cannot make an absolute agree-

L6

CASDS IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818 ment with R. H. and D. to receive all the property La%,
nusse has or may ship by the Macfor account of Taber
Lanusse
Spn, to be applied for the payment of the bills LaV.
Barkor. nusse has or may draw on them, excepting one thousand pounds, and the profits on the adventure, which
they may place to the credit of Taber & Son, if they
are so much indebted to R.,'H. & D. ; if not so much,
then such sum as may 8e due them. You will cause
insurance on the cargo of ship Mac to the amount of
nine thousand pounds steiling, and proceed as the agent
of Lanusse to get hold of the property ; you certainly
can stop it in transitat."
On the same day the defendant also wrote to Rath-

1o-ne- Hughes & Duncan:
"1As the agent of my friend Paul Lanusse at NewOrleans, I have, in consequence of the failure of John
Taber & Son, to inform you, that the goods he is shipping on board the Mac, Captain Swaine, have not in
any part been paid for, therefore they are to be stopped
in transits, for the benefit of my said friend Paul Lanusse, who is by me represented; and as his ageni, I
charge you, on your peril, not to accept, or in any manner commit yourselves for said Taber & Son, on account
of said Shipment, but if you are willing to receive said
consignment, sell the same, and apply the 'whole proceeds to the payment of such drafts rs Lanusse may
draw on you, which shall not exceed the amount of
invoice."
On the 30th of April, 1807, the defendant wrote the
plaintiff:
"I annex copy of my last respects, and have to request, in the most pointed manner, thy particular at-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
tention to my request therein. I have sent out many
1818.
letters in hopes of meeting the Mac ; if any of hem
0
meet her in the Mississippi, Captain. Swaine will re- Lanusse
v.
tur, to New-Orleans with all his papers for thee to Bayker,
alter the direction of the-goods shipped.by that vessel
for account of Taber & Sop'; if not so 'successful as
to meet her, but if any of them meet her after she leaves
the Mississippi, she will stop at this port, when 'I wdl
nake the necessary alterations ; but if none of my letters meet her, my only chance for securing, myself is
by thy stopping the -property'in transitu. To have
That done, thee must immediately send out powers to
Liverpool, therefore I beg thee to confirm all I have
written to Martin, Hope & Th6rnley."
On the 20th of May, 1807, the plaintiff wrote to the
defepdant:
"Your esteemed favour of the 15tl ultimo has just
reached me, and with much regret do I learn the fall.
ure of Messrs. John Taber & Son. I hope that youwill
not be a sufferer, and that you'have taken timely precaution. Agreeably to your request, I have written-on
to Liverpool, but am afraid my letters -,Vill come too
late, as the Mac sailed -from e Balize on the 23d. of,
April, and as she is.-a-good sailer, will no doubt have.
discharged her cargo "before "the receipt of my letter.
For your government I enclose you invoiee and bill .of
lading of the 500 bales cotton shipped per Mac ; also,
my account current with Messrs. John Taber & Son,
according to which a balarnce of $125128 1-2, for
which amount I shall value upon you as occasion- ofl
fers. You will, I hope,' have taken -the 'necessary
measures to meet my drafts -dated March, 20th draN

18

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

in
direct on Messrs. Taber & Son, in Portland, payable to
1818.
anxious
am
I
you.
advised'
I
New-York, of which
'"
Lanusse
v.
receive your further communications, and most sin.
Barker. cerely'hope that you have been atle "to cover your
claim, and not be a loser by this unfortunate accident."
And on the 9th of June, 1807, he wrote the defend
ant:
"I have only time to inform 'you of the receipt of
'your favour of 16th and 30th Ap~ril, and to assure you
that I shall punctually follow your instructions, and
lose no time in forwarding to you and to Liverpool all
and honnecessary papers, relying on your integrity
our. I feel no uneasiness respecting my concern in
this unfortunate business at the same time I most sincerely -regret that you should be & sufferer, but hope things
may yet result favourable."
On the 28th of August, 1807, the'plaintiff wrote the
defendant:
"The last m-il brought me the non-acceptance, pro.
test, &c. of the two bills of exchange drawn by me on
th house of John Taber & Son, under date of the 20th
of March, 1807, in favour of Thomas Elmes, and endorsed by him to Messrs. Corp, Ellis -and Sh'aw, each
for five thousand dollars, making the sum of ten thouobliged here io
sand dollars, and which I have been
pay to Mr.'Elmes, together with ten per cent. damages, amounting to the further sum of one thousand dolis
larsgiving a total of eleven thousand dollars. It
unnecessary for Mne to dwell upon the serious inconven
or
iences which have resulted from this circumstance,
transaction
the
of
whole
to 'repeat how prejudicial the
my
'vith the house of John Taber & Son has been to

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
affairs. I, however, rely upon you for the payment
Lanusse
recommenyour
upon
entirely
of this money, as it was
dation, upon the strength of your assurances and the
V.
resprctability of your guaranty, that I was induced to Barker.
embark in this business, and to procure cotton -for the
cargo of the ship Ma.; but this subject has al ,'ady
been sufficiently enlarged upon in my former letters to
you, and I sanguinely trust that you wiUi not delay
making the necessary arrangements for this reimbursement. No information has as yet been received by me
from Liverpool, respecting the fate of the 500 bales, of
cotton shipped on board the Mac. I feel anxious toknow the success of the steps which have been taken
in that quarter. I trust that you will communicate to
me the earliest information that you may receive on
this subject."
On the 30th of January, 1806, John Taber & Son
wrote to the plaintiff-as follows:
"We wrote thee the 24th inst. since which wehave
received a letter from Jacob Barker, informing that he
had engage] eight hundred bales of cotton for the Mac,,
previous to her sailing from New-York, from your port
to Liverpool, whii has fixed her rout; as she iaath so
much freight engaged, we flatter ourselves that she
will be filled up immediately. It is our wish to have
two hundred bales of good cotton shipped on owners' ,
account, and as much more as may-be necessary to make
despatch, as we are not willing to have her detained
in your port f~r freight. -T6reimburse thyself for th
cotton purchased on owners) account, thou may draw
bills at sixty days sight, either on Jacob Barker or 'n
us. If thou can sell bills. on Rathbone, Hugbes&

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Dancan, merchants at Lixerpoo], at par, thou may on
1818.
xanuss~" therd taking care not to send the bills before she sails,
I
Lanusso
V

and to write on timely to them to get insurance made

Barker.- oh the: amount of property shipped on or account. 1
On the 27th 61',March; 1806, the plaintiff' wrote J.
Taber & Son:
"'Your much respectful favour of the 30tb ofLJanuary last came duly to hand. I 'observe what ydu say
respecting,the purchase of cotton for your account to
-go by ship Mac, of which our friend Jacob Rarker,
likeiwise makes mentio4 ; this shiip has not yet made
her appearance, but as soon as she do6s you may depend on my utmost exertions tb follow your orders,
and give the ship all dispatch that lays in my power.
°
Themode of reimbursements for purchasers made here
will be by drawing on our friend Barker, agreeable to
his advice, as I thinkit will be less diffcult for me to'
place bills on New-York. Cotton is rising, and fetches now 26 cents. Notwithstanding, I shall follow
your orders with respect to the Mae, unlesq any thing
to the contrary should reach me before she arrives., As
for drawing, on Liverpool, it is altogether out of my
power, for such bills are seldom asked for here., I shall
advise.Messrs. Rathbone, Hughes & Duncan, in due
time, to effect insurance on the property I may ship on
your account. Awaiting the pleasure of announcing
you the Mac's arrival, I continue with respect,,, &6.
On .the 5th 9.f June, 1806, the plaintiff wrote J.
Taber & Son : Cottbn is 'pretty steady at 22 cents,
Should circumstances authoride my purchasing for

OF THE UNITED STATES.
your account, I shall, in preference, value for the 1818.
amount of Mr. Ja6ob Barker,
On the 29th of June, 1806;'John Taber & Son wrote Laniisse
V.
to the plaintiff.
Barker.
"We have not been favoured with any of thy communications since 4th month,, 7th. We hava been
daily expecting to hear of our ship Mac being laden
And re~dy for sea as we had not the least idea
but tft the eight hundred bales that Jacob Barker
contracted for would be ready at the time agreed on,
and expected thou would have purchased a sufficiency to fill up on owners' account, provided freight did
not offer in season. By last mail we received a letter
from Mr. Jacob Barker, informing that he feared the
contractors would not'furnish the eight hundred 'bales,
and that in consequence thereof the Mac would be detained until -further orders from us. We, therofore,
have this day wrote Barker to give thee and Captain
Swaine such directions a* he may think proper. But
we hope she will be despatched for Liverp6ol before
this reaches thee,'as it is our wish to have her go
there."
On the 15th of July, 1806, John Taber & Son wrote
the plaintiff :
"Thy favour of the, 5th ultimo by mail, was this day
received, the contents noticed, ve are very sorry to find
that the Mac is so detained with you, we having flattered ourselves that she wduld have been at Liverpool
by this. We wrote thee 27th ultimo by mail, directing
thee to follow Jacob Barker's instructions respecting
the Mac, which we now confirm, and say that we wish
VOL. Ill.
17

2CASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT

same as
1818. thee to follow his instructions at all times the
from us."
""
Lanusse
'wrote J. Taber
On the 29th of August the plaintiff
v.
Barker. & Son:
duly
"Your esteemed favour of the 29th of June has
difurther
come to hand, but I have in vain expected
.
h
which I
rections from Mr. Barker, for the want of
difficulties."
experienced many
& Son again
On the 25th of July,'1806, J. Taber
wrote the plaintiff:
handed
Thy favour of the 13th ultimo was this day
brobeen
had
It
Phicnix.
us by Captain Webb of the
not
have
We
cruiser.
ken open at sea by an English
it.
see
to
like
received a copy of thy protest; we should
infirst
the
We are extremely sorry that we had not, in
ship with
our
laden
have
to
stance, given thee orders
what
with
account,
our
staves, logwood, and ootton, on
have
certainly
freight could be obtained; we should
have
done it, if we had the least idea that we should
We have
been disappointed of the S hundred bales.
informing
Barker,
Jacob
this day received letters from
as
immediately
he had given thee direction to load
large
a
above; hope thou can make it convenient to put'
think
we
as
account,
our
on
share of cotton on board
trust
we
staves;
than
that article will pay much more
as.
documents
thou 4ill send to Jacob Barker such
demurwill enable him to recover the freight and
rage."
wrote the
And on the 30th July, 1806, Taber & Son
plaintiff.
,Wehope that the Mac will sail for Liverpool before

OF.THE UNITED STATES.
this reaches thee, with a cargo on owners account.
and a large proportion of cotton."
On the 16th of*September, 1806, the plaintiff wrote
J. Taber & Son:
" amsuccessively favoured with your much esteemed of 15th, 25th, and 30th July, and have taken due notice of their contents. Mr. Jacob Barker has likewise
wrote me,, and shall follow his instruction; as far as
]ayi in my power."
On the 3d of October, 1816, .Taber & Son wrote the
plaintiff:
"We observe that thou had thoughts of sending the Mac to New-York after a few weeks, if thou
did not receive further instructions: but we trust that
will not be the case, a s we presume that thou received Jacob Barker's orders soon after, to load her on
owners' account for Liverpool, except the demurrage
was continued to be paid. If so, we are willing to
let her lay until the charterers procure the 800 bales
freight. When that is the case, we presume thou will
not let her be detained for the remainder part of the
cargo to the charterer's damage. We renew our request for thee to confinue to follow Jacob Barker's instructions from time to timQ respecting the Mac, the
same as from us. We are well satisfied with thy pro.
ceedings."
On the 12th of December, 1806, the plairitiff wrote
.. Taber & Son, acknowledging the receipt of their
letter of the 3d of October, and saying, " I have not,as yet, commenced the purchase of cotton, only small
parcels have as yet come to hand ; as soon as I can

I,
1818.
Iv
Barker

24

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

succeed I shall value upon Jacob Barker for the
1818.
%nS
Lanusse amount," i'c.
& Son
On the 9th of November, 1806, J. Taber
.
the'plaintiff:
Barkr. 'wrote
"We do not pretend to give thee any positive order
respecting the Mac, as we have heretofore directed
but we
thee to follow Jacob Barker's directions;
have
Tp
viz.
wishes,
our
of
will give thee a sketch
possible,
as
the Mac despatched to Liverpool, as soon
with about five hundred bales of cotton on owner's
account, and the remainder of her cargo on freight,"
&c..
J. TaOn the 22d January, 1807, the plaintiff wrote
ber and son:
"I have written this d,-rto Mr. Barker, and keep
his
hifa advised of the state of affeairs here. Upon
reaarks on the subject of demurrage, I have unconpaid
ditionally passed to your account, the total sum
the
of
expenses
the
for
in, and shall employ the funds
for
cotton
of
ship, and the surplus for the purchases
your account. I -am happy to inform you, that I
have already made a commencement, and purchased
"72bales at 22 cents, whici, are now ready to be shipped on board the Mac. I shall, as opportunity offers,
draw upon Mr. J. Barker for the amount, and complete the 500 bales to be shipfd for your account
which will be absolutely necessary to procure a full
,freight.
I valued upon Mr. 3. Barker, 1,800 dollars, which
qsur ispassed to your credit. I need iot recommend
to you to take the necessary measures, in order to
liave" 'my drafts duly honoured by- that gentleman."

OF THE UNITED STATES.
On the 13th of February, the plaintiff wrote J. Taber
1818
and Son, and after mentioning a farther purchase of Lanu
cotton for their account, he states: "I add you a note
,v. ,
of my drafts, upon Mr. T. Barker, on account of this Barker
shipment, for your account, and shal. keep you constantly advised of my proceedings."
On the 9th of February, 1807, Taber & Son wrote
the plaintiff:
"We having by last mall received account, that the
Mac had not begun to take'her cargo on New-Year's
day; we are well satisfied that thou had not purchas.
ed cotton for us at the high price that we understood
it was selling at, as we presume it will be much lower
by the time this reaches thee. If the Mac hath not
taken in any of her cargo before this reaches thee, we
wish thee to commence loading her on owners' account
immediately; as we have 'ever found that when our
ship commenced loading on owner$' account, that
freight sooh offered. Jacob Barker informed us some
time past, that he had given thee directions to ship five
hundred bales of cotton on our account, and liberty
to ship some flour, which -we think may answer well,
provided it is good. If freight cannot be obtained, to
fill her up with the flour and cotton that Barker
hath 6rdered, we should like 'to have her filled up
with good staves or timber, the growth of your country; but no logwood or mahogany. We much wish to
have the Mac depatched for Liverpool as soon as may
be."
On the 6th of March, 1807, the plaintiff wrote J,
Taber & Son,
"On the 13th ultimo, I last had the pleasure of

26

CASES IN THE SUPREME COTRT

addressing you. I ha-,e since procured a full freight
1818.
Lanuasp for the Mac at three cInts per pound cotton, and she
I
willbe despatched in all this month for Liverpool.
T.
bales
hundred
five
Barker. sha,11 ship on board for your account,
cotton and thirty thousa-nd staves, of which you now
may get insurance effected, the amount per invoice will
be about 3,400 dollars. I have, since my last, valued
uppfi Mr. J. Barker, for 600 dollars and 10,000 dollars,
to
on account of these purchases, and shall continue
purentire
the
as
draw as occasion offers. As soon
and
chase is completed, I shall hand you the invoice
Rathbone,
account current, and shall acquaint Messrs.
respecting
proceeding
my
with
Hughes. and Duncan,
early opthe above order for insurance, and shall have
I have
portunities of giving them timely information.
of
state
communicated to Mr. Jacob Barker the present
affairs."
wrote
And on the 20th of March, 1807. the plaintiff
to J. Taber & Son:
inform you, that I
Z The present merely serves to
have this day valued upon you, payable in New-York,
of 5,000 dolthe sum of 10,000 dollars, in two bills
days after
lars each, say, ten thousand dollars, sixty.
which
sight, to the order of Thomas Elmes, Esq.
your
for"
purchased
cotton
of
drafts go on account
It is
Mac.
ship
the
account, and shipped on board
have
I
that
upon the particular request of Mr. Elmes,
Mr. Jacob
altered the mode of my drawing direct on
Barker."
On the 17th of April, 1807, the plaintiff again wrote
J. Taber & Son:
you that
. I have now the pleasure of informing

OF THE UNITED STATES.
the Mac has sailed for Liverpool, having on board
500 bales of cotton for your own account, and 549

bales on freight. Enclosed, I hand you invoice and
bill of lading of the former, amounting to 33,098
dollars 31 cts. for which you will please credit my
Fccount. I have engaged 30 m staves, but they were
of inferior quality, and I preferred not shipping them.
With my next I shall hand you account current, &c.
Capt. Swaine has taken along -with him all the necessary documents to recover from the underwriters
on the ship Mac; the amount of expenseg incurred
since the gale until she was afloat, were 3,042 dollars
25 cts.
On the 24th of April, 1807, the plaintiff wrote- to J.
Taber & Son :
"I refer to my respectful last of the 17th instant
and have now the pleasure of handingyou account cur.
rent to this day, and other papers respecting our'transactions, agreeable to which, there is yet a balance due
me, of 1,276 dollars 51 1-2 cents, for which amount I
shall value upon you as occasion may offer."
Besides the above correspondence, the plaintiff pro.
duced in evidence an answer of the defendant to a bill
of discovery, filed by the plaintiff in a suit formerly depending in the supreme court of the state of Niw-York,
which was commenced in April, 1810, and discontinued
in October, 1813; of which answer the following is an
extract :
And this defendant, further answering, says, that
previous to the month of May, 1807, he had large
commercial dealings with the house or firtm of John
Taber & Son, of Portland, in the state of Massachti.

12
1818.
'

'"

Lanusse
.v.
Barker.

28

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'
that the said firm or house of John Tahaving failed prior to the said month of
and at the time of such failure largely
the defendant; and this said defendant
visited Portland for the purpose of securig his demand against said firm or house of John Taber &
Son ; and soon after his return, he, about the 1st
of May 1807, in conversation with 3abriel S.
Shaw, of the firm of Corp, 0lis & Shaw, Merchants,
residing in this city, about the charter of a ship, mentioned to said Shaw, that he, Barker, had just returned from Portland, where he had been for the' purpose of
getting security from John Taber & Son, when hel
said Shaw, informed him that they had, a few days
previously, sent bills drawn at New-Orleans on said
Taber and Son, under cover to the said Tabers, for
acceptance, to the amount of ten thousand dollars;
and inquired if he, this defendant, supposed they
would, in the deranged state of their business, return
From this
iheni regularly protested or accepted?
defendant's knowledge of- said Taber's business he
believed that those bills were drawn in payment for
the ship Mac's cargo; this being the only information this defendant had of any bills being drawn- at
New-Orleans on sail John Taber & Son, he was* induced to accompany the said Gabriel Shaw to his office,
to ascertain the particulars ; who, at the instance of
of
this defendant, exhibited to him either a letter or one
the same sets of bills by which this defendant learnt
they were drawn by Paul Lanussei at New-Orleans, on
John Taber and Son, Portland, in part payment for
the cargo of the Mae. That this defendant, acting

etfs. And
b~r & Son,
Mar, 1807,
v.
Barker. iAdebted to
1818.

'aus'

OF THE UNITED STATES.
from the information so received, and from no other in
1818.
formation or advice whatever, and, also, from an ap. "Lanusse
4"
prehension that the said complainant, when he should
Y.
hear of the failure of the said house of John Taber &, Barker.
Son, would claim from this defendant the amount for
which the said bill -orbills were drawn, and thereby expose this defendant to an expensive course of litigation in resisting the said )Jaim, if any should be made,
he, this defendant, wrote to the said John Taber & Son
a letter on the srbject of the said bill or bills, and
which letter, he believes, is as follows, to wit
A'tew- tork, 5 mo. 5th, 1807,
John Taber 8f Son,
I am this day advised of Paul Lanuss&'s having
drawn on you to the amount of ten thousand dollars,
which bills were forwarded to you for acceptance: for
the payment of those drafts I am not liable, as I 6nly
promised to accept in case of his drawing on me. You
undoubtedly, accepted those bills ; if not, and.yoii l*a
them, be pleased at all events, to accept them,, as if'
they are returned without acceptance, the charge will
be, as,at first, for. the shipment for which Lanusse
may possibly think me answerable, but if the bills are
accepted, he can only look to you. The debt, as to
him, thereby becomes of another nature, but as *to you
it is the same thing, and cannot place you !n any
worse situation. Therefore, let thep be accepted, andif you have returned them without acceptance, authorise me to accept them' as your agent to this business
'VOL. III.
18

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
If18. give immediate attention as'I must not he made anans
swerable for them; although injured,
Lanusse
I am yet your friend,
v.
JACOB BARKER,
Barker.
And that afterwards this defendant wrote another
letter to the said John Taber & Son, which he believes is as follows :

.Xew-York, 5mo. 15, 1807.
John Taber,
This day's mail brought me thy letter, by which I
.am surprised to observe thee hs, refused compliance
with my request. I cannot account for the strange advice youi merchants gave respecting protesting those
bills. I, however, admit thaf in ordinary cpses there
would not be much impropriety in protesting them,
though I could not possibly alter the state of your business, the debt being indisputable, their being accepted only acknowiedged the debt to be due ; but I must
insist if thee has any regard to justice, that thee will,
if not returned, accept them for account of John Taber & Son; if returned, authorise Ne to accept them
for their account. Irconsitler the argument that I expected to secute the Mac and cargo, no excuse at all,
particularly as no attachment can be made in this state
for partial benefit, all attachments must be made for
the benefit of all the creditors. So that if I have
property in my hands, the' best possible step the creditors could take would be for one of them to attach it
in my hands: therefore, must pointedly insist on thy accepting, or ordering me to accept those bills. As to,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
advice from thy neighbours, it is one of those simple
cases that do not require advice, and I say expressly,
when thee considers my situation, thee cannot honestly
refuse my request. If I was in thy situation, and all
the world advised me not to do it, I should not pay the
least respect to such advice, but accept the bills without a moment's hesitation. If thou thinks Paul Lanusse will be a more difficult creditor than I shall be,
thee will, under present circumstances, be mistaken, to
where I am thus forced into'a monstrous loss, I shall
be very difficult, although, in common cases,, should be
favourably disposed.
Your friend,
JACOB BARKER.
The plaintiff further proved by Joseph TI ebaud, of
New-York, the plaintiff's agent, that in the beginning
'of October, 1807, he received from the plaintiff the following account, dated 1st September, 1807, at NewOrleans, which he showed to the defendant, and demanded payment of the same, which was refused by the
defendant:

1818.
Lanusse
V.
Barker

CASES IN 'THE SUPR3EME CORUT

32

Dr. Mr.Jacob Barker of New.York,for account of .lfe:r. John Ta0
Cr.
aanusse 'her and &on, ofPortland,in acct; current with Paul Lanutne.

V.

Barker.

1807.
April13. To amount of 500

J

1807.
23. By mydraftfav Bra..

sier.

bales of cotton as

01800 00

do Stephed Zacharie, 1100 00
per invoice, $33,098 31
do Delarie & Canut, 607 2.5
24. Disbursements of
1370 00
do Jos. Thebaud,
ship Mac, as per
301 00
5943 69 Feb, Q.do J. B. Stegg,
account
12. do Samuel Lord, 573 00
My commi-sions on.
600 00,
15. do B. Labarte,
freight procured for
Mar. 3. do Thomas Elmes, 5000 00
the Mac, $597460
5000 00
do
do
298 73
a 5 per cent.
10. do Francis Depau,6000 00
Do. on demurrage
do J. Paul Poutz. 691 60
collected $5,150 a
20. do Thomas Elmes, 5000 00
12875
2 1-2 per cent,
5000 0
do
do
My drafts of
Denmurrago ship Mac,
March 20 on
commencing 5th June,
John Taber &
to the 16th Sept. being
Son, favour of
103 days, at #50 per
The. Elmes, #5000 00
5150 00
day.
5000 00
do
May 2. I junk cable from ship
Damagee paid,
26 24
Mac,
10 per cent. 1000 00
Balance duo Paul La.
II000 00
12251 8;
nusse,

I

:

$5046944

$50469 1&

To bafance per cont. 1225128
Errors excepted.
New-Orleans, 1st September, 1808.
PAUL LANUSSE.
(Singed)

The plaintiff further proved, that in the suit first
a-ove mentioned, which had been depending, between
him and the defendant in the supreme court of the
state of New-York, the plaintiff suffered a nonsuit,
on the nineteenth of December, 1808, after the judge
had charged the jury in favour of the defendant. And
,
the plaintiff further proved, that he did on the 30th of
January, 1809, draw two new sets of bills upon the defendant, which were produced and read irievidence

'by the plaintiff's counsel, and are in the words and
-figures following:

OF THE UNITED STATES.
few-Orleans, 30h January, 1809.
Exchange for, dolls. 10055 35 cents.
Sixty day after sight of this my second of exchange,
(first and third of same tenor and date not paid) pay
to Mr. Jos. Thebaud, or order, ten thousand and fiftyfive dollars5 thirty-five cents, value received, which
place to the account of
PAUL LANUSSE.
To Mr. Jacob Barker, 'Merchant, JNew-York.
.New-Orleans, 30th January, 1809.
Exchange for dolls. 2195 93 1-2 cents.
Sixty days after sight of thi's my second of exchange,
(first and.third" of- same tenor and date not paid) pay
to Mr. Jos. Thebaud, or order', two thousand one hundred and ninety-five dollars, ninety-three and a half
cents, value received, which place to accouix oi
PAUL LANUSSE.
To Mr. Jacob Barker, Merchant, JV'ew-Yorlc.
That the said hills were protested- for non-acceptance on- the 11th of March, 1809, and for non-payment on the 13th May, 1809. The notary also
proved, that at the time of presenting the said bills,
he offered to the *defendant the account and letters
herein next stated, which the defendant refused- t
accept, and desired the notary to take them-away,
who refused, and threw them on 'his, the defendant's
counter. The bills were accompanied with a letter
of advibe, mentioidg that the first bill was'for the
L
balance due for th
purchase of the 690 bales of
cotton, and the other for dist-ursements of the ship

I618.
Lanuse

V.
Barker.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

Mac and 1500 dollars damages paid on the two drafts
Lanusse of 5000 each on Taber & Son, returned'protested for
v.
non-payment.
Barker.
The plaintiff further proved, that all the bills of exchange drawn by plaintiff on the defendant, and contained in the above account, amounting to 23,042 dollars 96 cents had been paid by the defendant after the
same had been protested for non-payment, excepting'
the last mentioned bills for 5,00 dollars each, drawn
in favour of Thomas Elmes, and forwarded as aforesaid to Corp, Ellis & Shaw. It was also admitted,
that the plaintiff had received no part of the freight
of the Mad's cargo, although it is mentioned in a letter of his that he had received the freight or a part of
it.
The plaintiff then proved, that the ordinary interest
of money in New-Orleans was ten per cent. per annum,
and the. lawful interest in New-York was seven per
cent.
The plaintiff having made the proofs on his part,'here
rested his cause. NXhereupon, the defendant then produced in evidence the following account, forwarded to
him by the plaintiff, in his letter of the 20th of May,
1807.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

135

Dr. .lessrs. J. Taber & Son, in Portland,in account current with Paut
Cr,
Lanusse
1807.
1807.
April 13. To amount of 500
Jan. 22 By my draft fav.
bales of cotton as
Brasier, 1800
per invoice, $33,098 31
do. Stepn.Zacharie,1100
24. Disbursement of
do. Delaire & Canut,60725
ship Mac, as per
do Joseph Theband,1370
account,
594369 1-2, Feb. 6. do Jacob D. Stagg. 30121
My commission on
12. do Samuel Lord, 57S
freight procured for
16. do Labarte,
600
the Mac, $5,974' 0
iar . 3. do Thomas Elmes, 5000
a 5 percent
6873
do
do
5000
D
on demurrage
do Francis Depau, 6000
do J. Paul Poutz,
691
collected, $5,150 a
2 1-2 per cent. 128 75
20 do Thomas Efxnes, 5000
do
do
5000
Demurrage of ship Mfac,
commencing 5th of
June to 16th Sept.being 103 days a $50 5150
April 24 Bal. due me, 1276521-2
39,469 48 1-2

39,469 48 1-2

April 24. To balance por
contra due me, 1276 42 1-2
Errors and omissions Gxcepted.
New-Orleans, April 24, 1807.
(Signed)
PAUL, LANTISSE.
Dr. .feysrs. J. Taber 4- Son, ofPortland,in account wtth-P. Lanusse. Cr
1807.
1807.
April 24, To balance per
Mav 2. By 1 junk cable, 2524
contra, $1276 52 1-2
20.O balance,
1251 28 1-2
1276 52 1-2
1807.
May 20.

To balance due
me.
1251 28 1-2
E. & O.E.
Now-Orleans, May 20th, 1807.
(Signed)

1726,52 1-9
- ------

-o7 Paul Lanusse,
P. & H. AMELUNG.

The defendant then proved, by gabriel Shaw, of
the house of Corp, Ellis & Shaw, of New-York, that
the two bills'of exchange drawn by Paul Lanusse on
John Taber & Son, dated the 20th of March, 1807,
were received by Corp, Ellis & Shaw, from Thomas
Elmes of New-Orleans, in whose favour they were
drawn, about the 27th or 25th day pf April in the same
year, and were immediately forwarded by him "to John

18f 9.
Lanuqse
V.

Barker,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Taber & Son, of Portland, for acceptance; that they
on the 30th of the same month at Port.
tanusse -were protested
land, for non-acceptance, and were received by the
"v.
Barker. witness withi the protests about the 5th or 6th of May,
1818.

about which day, and after the receipt of the said bills,
he either met the defendant in the street, or called .at
his house, but which he cannot recollect, and showed
him, he believed, the said bills ancd protest, having understood the said defendant had, in some way, some
concern in the business. That the said bills at maturity were protested in New-Yokk, for non-payment, and
were afterwards remitted to the said Thomas Elmeg
at New-Orleans. From the protest it appeared that
the two bills of $5,000 each, were protested for
non-payment on the 2d day of July, 1807, in New.
York, and that the limited time mentioned in the said
bills with the days of grace, were then expired, since
the bills w7ere protested for non-acceptance in Portland.
The defendant then rested his cause; upon which
the plaintiff claimed a verdict for the sum of
$17,909 02, if the court and jury were of opinion
that interest was allowable at the rate of ten per cent.;
but if they were of opinion that interest at the rate of
seven per cent. only was allowable, then the plaintiff
claimed a verdict for the sum of- $15,910 94; and the
plaintiff exhibited' the following statement, showing
the manner in which the said several sums were calculated, viz.
1807.
1st.
April 13. To amount of 500 bales of cotton, as per invoice, f33,098 3I
5,943 60
-4. To disbursements for ship, with com. at 5 per cent.
298 7;
To commissions on freight, f5974 60, at 5 per cent.
To do on demurrage collected, #5150, at 2 1-2 per cent 198 75
89,469 3S

137

OF THE UNITED STATES,

1818.

Cr.
by bills paid,
by demurrmge receivcd,
By one junk cable,

.23,042
.

96
5,150 00
• 24, ,Barker.
28,218 20
$11,2.51 19

t[o interest on $11,25i 19, train 15th of May, 1809,
(protest of new bills,) to the 13th Bf Apnl, 1615,
(day of verdict at 10 per cent.,5 years llmonth

6656 93
17908 02

2d,

11,251 19
To atiount of damages as above,
To interest on the above sum of $1 1251 19,
4,659 75
ior the same period, at 7 per cent.
$15910 94

The plaintiff then prayed the judge of the circuit
court to charge and deliver his opinion to the jury that
tae plaintiff was entitled to the aforesaid sum of 17,908
dollars and 2 cents if the interest was to-be calculated
at the rate of 10 per cent, or to the sutm of 15,910 dollars and 94 cents, if the interest was to be cal~ulated at
the rate of seven per cent. The defendant insisted
that the plaintiff was not entitled to any damages; and
the judge so charged the jury, proforma. A verdict
was thereupon taken for the defendant, and a bill of
exceptions tendered. An agreement was entered Thto
by the counsel for both parties, that the cause should
be carried to the supreme court by writ of error, and
that if the supreme court should be of opinion that the
plaintiff was entitled to a judgment for the principal
sum of 11,251 dollars and 19 cents with interest, at the
rate of 10 per cent., then the judgment should be rendered for the sum of 17,908 dollars and 2 cents, with
costs. Or if the court should be of opinion that he
was entitled to interest at the rate of seven per cent. only that judgment should be rendered for the sum of19
VOL.,III.

Lanusac
V.
a5

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

188

15,910 dollars and 94 cents with costs: or if the court
be of opinion tha-t any other-sum different from
Lanusse
either of the above sums, is recoverable by the plainIt.
Barker. tiff, that judgment should be rendered for such other
sum as the court might direct. But if it should be of
opinion that the plaintiff is not entitled to recover any
damages, then the judgment for thq~defendant should
be affirmed.
Mr. Pendleton, for the plaintifTf, argued, that the defendant was liable, both for the bills drawn by the
FLb. Sth.
plaintiff on Taber &-Son, and, also, for the bills drawn
in January, 1809, on the defendant. That the original
undertaking of the defendant was a guaranty that all
bills drawn by the plaintiff, on account of the ship Mac,
should be paid whether drawn on the defendant or oqn
Taber & Son. The learned counsel entered into a critical analysis of the opinion of the supreme court of the
state of New-York in this cause,- and contended that
the rule- for codistraing contracts extend to all parties
alike, whether sureties or principals: That they must
be construed according to the intention of the parties,.
not ahcording to the mere literal meaning of thewords.
If these are ambiguous, the intention must be ascertained by the context, by contemporaneous declarations, writings, and transactions, and, above all, by
the purposes and objects to be answered. This prinIt
ciple is applicable to the undertaking of a surety.b
is by no means a -well established rule that the
1818.

Sshould

a 10 Johns R. 325.
b Barclay-el al. v. Luca, I T. R. 291.

Note a.

OF THE UNITEII STATES.

13

.ontract of a surety is to be construed more favourably
1818
than that of the rincipal.a The law knows no favour- Lanusse
ites. The obligation of the surety is the inducement
,:
for the creditor to trust the principal, with whose af"
fairs and circumstances the surety is 'Presumed to be
best, acquainted. Formerly' nothing could discharge
this liability at ]aw, but performance, if the creditor had
discharged the prirkcipal, or extended the time of paymeifi by a new contract with the principal, with6ut the
surety's consent, the surety had no remedy. In later
times, the courts of law have interposed to protect the
surety; but there is much contrariety in the numerous
cases that have been decided, upon the question 'whit
transactions between the creditor and the piincipal
sliall discharge the surety. There is no doubt that an
absolute discharge of the principal will discharge the
surety also. But it is contended that-no new contract
or transaction between the* creditor and principal shall
discharge the surety, unless it deprive him of the right
he always possesses of placing himself in the creditor's
situation by paying the debt according to the original
contract, and thus getting into his own hands the
means of securing himself. This principle -is founded
on the nature of the contract of suretyship, and is stip
ported by tbhe authorities, except one or two cases,
which it will be difficult to reconcile.with priaciple.b
All the cases decided in England in favour of sureties
have been where the creditor has taken away this right
by discharging the principal, or by giving him a ijew
a Mason v. Prichard, 12 East, 227.
b Bishop v. Crunch, 2 Ves. 371-. Woffington v. Sparks Id.

CASES IN THE SUPIlEME COURT
1818.

extended credit.a Mere delay and want of notice have
been uniformly held- insuffcient to discharge a surety.&

-'
Lanusse But even if the law were otherwise, there has been no

V.

Raoker, unnecessary delay or want of r otice in the present
case.
The Ittornq General, and Mr. Jones, contra, contended, that the defendant was to be considered iro
the character'of a surety merely; that this was evinced by every part of the correspondence; and that consequently he was bound only according to the litexal
terms of his contract. That by the well established
doctrine of law and equity, a different rule was to be
Applied, in the construction of the contract of the surety,
from that which was applicable to the contract of the
principal. In regard to the principal, a liberal interpretation i§ to be indulged, to reach the substance and equity
of the contract; whilst the undertaking of the surety is
to be limited to its precise terms. The reasons of this
distinction are, that there is a valuable consideration
inoving from the creditorwhich ereates an equitable obligation,.on the part df the principal, independent of the
express contract, whilst, in respect to the surety, tbere is
nothivg but his express promise, acceding to that of the
-Nesbitt it. Smith, 2 Bra. C&. Cas. 579. Rees v. Barrington, 2 Fts.
J3un. 540. Smith v. Lewis, 3lBroq. Ch. Cu. 1. 'hillips v. Astling,
Taunt. 206. Deming v. Norton,Kirby, 397.
b Cartlidge v. EaIes, .2 Com. R. 557. Peel v. Tatlock, Bos. &Put.
419. Trent Navigation .Co. v. Harley, 10 East. 34. Warrington Y
Turbor, 8 East, W. O'Kelly v. Sparks,. 10 East, 377. Barnard vNorton, Kir y, 193. Meade v M'DonnalI, 5 Binney, 195.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

141

rfincipal debtor. Another reason is one of legal policy, to
1818.
encourage suretyships for the benefit, of commerce,. and
the'extension of credit, and at the same time to protect. Lanusse
v.
the sureties by every means consistent with morality, Barker.
All the cases at law are consonant with this distinction.a The aid of the courts of equity has been invoked in vain'to effect a more enlarged construction of
the undertaking of sureties.b
Besides, whatever was
'the undertaking of the diefendant in the present case,
the plaintiff considered the order contained in the letter of*the 9th of January as completely abrogated by
the letter of thel3th of February, after which date the
principals step in, and the plaintiff acts under their orders, and corresponds with them only. By the last
mentioned letter, the defendant promises to answer
bills drawn on himself only, which was a new- undertnking, on his part, under which he could' not be liable for bills drawn on Tber & Son. Nor did the
plaintiff give the defendant any notice of those bills b6ing drawn, which omission would alone be sufficient
to discharge him from his liability.
Mr. D. B. Ogden, in reply, insisted, that though the
surety could not be made responsible beyond the tenor
of his engagement, he could not be discharged by ima Lord Arlington v. blerick, 2 Saund. 411. and Sergeant Williams
note, (5.) p. 415. Wright v. Russel, 3 Wi!s. 53Q. S.C. 2 W. l. 934
Myers v. Edge, 7 T. R. 254. Barker v, Parker, 1 T. R. 287. Ludlow vr
Viznond, 2 Caine's Cas. n error, 1. Walsh v. Bailie, 10 AJoihns. Re.
180.
Rusel v. Clark; 7 Cranch. 90.
b Maxims in equity, 71. 8.impson v. Field, 2 Ch. Ca,. .122 Rees v.

PBarington, 2 Ves..jun. 540.

142
1818.
L
Lanuss
Barker.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
plication, still less by studied ambiguity of language
That the great fundamental
and artifice of conduct.
prinple, in the interpretation of contracts, is to carry
into effect the intention of the parties, and that this
principle was peculiarly applicable to commercial contracts. That where there is a doubt -arising from
the ambiguity of expressions, the acts of the parties
may be resorted to as supplementary evidence of their
intention. That even supposing their had been a revocation, or modification of the original cortract, on the
part of the defendant, he is still liable under his subsequent undertaking. No case can be found, where a
mere attempt to recover of the principal will tischarge
the surety. All the authorities are the' other way.
The draw'ing the bills on Taber & Son was not a waiver of the defendant's liability. Nor was any notice to
of
thle defendant necess.ary, any more than on a bill
exchange, where the want of funds in the drawee's
hands dispenses with the necessity of notice. So, in
this - case, the defefidant having no funds in the hands
of Taber & Son, noti6e to him would not have enabled
him to get into his own hands the means of securing
himself.

Feb. 17th.

the
Mr. Justice J0axsoN delivered

opinion of the

court. " This case comes- up on a bill of exceptions.
This chrge of the Judge Was" given proforma,generalto it.
ly against the plaintiff, and the verdict conforms
on
There are many counts in the declaration, and if,
recovto
entitled
was
plaintiff
any of those counts the
or, the judgment below must be reversed.

OF THE UNITED STATES
The first count is on a refusal to 'pay two sets' of 1818.
bills drawn on Taber & Son of Portland, payable in Lanusse
New-York. These bills were duly protested and rev.
turned, and the amount, with damages, refunded by the Barker.
plaintiff.
In defence to this count if is contended: That the
undertaking of Barker, as expressed in his letter of
the 9th of January, 1806, relates to a different transaction from that upon which, this cotton was purchased; that this transaction originated in the letters of the
26th of January, or 24th of July, 1806, or of the 20th
February, 1807, and in neither of those letteis is the
undertaking, on bills to be drawn on Taber & .Son, reiterated : That the letters alluded to contain, in fact,
an implied revocation of the undertaking in the letter
of the 9th, of which the plaintiff was bound to take notice.
To the correctness of these positions, this court can- , The defendnt's ]tters of
not yield its assent. Nothingn could
be more inconsist- the l3thofFewt
bruary, and
eat with that candour *and good faith which ought to 24th of July,"
fo
g contained no
mark the transactions of mercantile men, than to
to fvoug revocation of
the revocation of an explicit contract on the construc- the undertaking, in the lettion of a correspondence no where avowing that ob- ter of the 9th
Ject. It was in the defendant's power to have revoked of.Januairy
his assumption, contained in the letter of the 9th, at
any time prior to its execution, but /if was incilmbent
on lim to have done so avowedly, and in language
that could not be charged with equivocation. In this
case, we discover nothing from which such. an intention can fairly be inferred. The whole correspondence
refers to the same subject, and has in view the same
object. The expediting of the .sbip Mac on freight, if

44
1818.
ans
v.
Barker.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT"
uipe
freight could be obtained, and, ifC not, to be filled
(at least to the-quantity of cotton here purchased,) orf
owner's account. This agency the plaintiff undertakes
expressly on the credit of Barker, for a house, with
whose credit, except on his infroduction, he is unpquainted: and so far from restricting the order conthe
tained in the letter of the 9th, thereis not one from
does
defen'dant, in the subsequent correspondence, that
continthe
upon
not enlarge the order as to quantity,
gency of the ship not getting freight.
But, it is contended, although the original assumption may not have been revoked; it was not complied
-with, according to the terms in which it was e~pressed,
And
and, therefore, was not binding, to the defendant.
bills in this
on thisground, so far as relates to the
is supcount, the court is of opinion, that the defence
is to,
assumption
The
ported oil legal principles.
or
Portland,
guaranty bills, "drawn on' Taber & Son,
on Tame, at 60 da-'s sight." I These bills are drawn
alNow,
New-Yoxk.
in
ber'& Son, Portland, payable
of
discharge
though we cannot see why an honourable
accept
to
his contract did not prompt the defendant
when they
these bills for-the honour of the drawer,
yet, as
non-acceptance,
for
were returned to New-York
individualst
of
it is our duty to construe the-contracts
that these
and not to make them, we are of opiniou,
assumpthe
to
conformity
in
bills were "not-&rawn
understand
well
tion of the defendant . Merchants
a spethe difference between drawing bills upon
one place
cified place, and drawing them upon
iWto the
inquire
to
not
are
We
payable in another.

145

OF THE UNITED STATES.
reasons which govern them in forming such contracts,
or competent to judge, whether any.other mode of

1818.

Lanusse
V.
complying with a contract may not be as convenient
Barker.
gobe
to
consented
have
they
which
that
as
'to them,
Although the
verned by. But it will be perceivedi that this opinion
can only effect the right of the plaintiff to recover the bills on Taber
and Son were
can
not drawn ac-"
and
bills,
those
of
return
the
on
him
by
paid
damages
cording to- the
defendant'sasplainthe
upon
case,
tlie
of
view
has no effect, in this
umptionlt.
this
of
guaranty
original
the
upon
tiff's right to recover,
feet the plain.demanded.
legally
debt dbwhen
tiff's right to
.
g
It is, however, contended, that the election to drawrecoverthedages paid by
in this form, was conclusive upon the plaintiff, and he him onthe recould not afterwards resort to a draft upon the defend- turn of the
had tllar.ght
ant himself. And this brings up the question upon the
plaintiff's right to recover upon the second count, the original
This count is on a refusal to pay a bill drawn on Bar- gtdebt.
ker himself, for the exact balance of the invoice of the
cotton, after crediting the defendant with the bills
that he had paid. This bill was not negotiatd and returned, but drawn in favour of an agent of the plaintiff,
and of course nor damages are demanded on it.
malting is
The defence set up to this count, to.bywit, that the TheIplaintift;
to
erection,
Taber
upon
'draw
to
election
his
plaintiff, by making
draw upon T.
the
in
Son
Bar-&
to
and Son, is thereby precluded from restoring
instance,
ker, we think canntot be sustained. It is in vain that first
did not prehimself
elude resorting
we look for any passage in the correspondence thatI from
defendto the
un-'"
whose
holds out this idea, nor is there any thing in' the nature ant,
was
dertaking
of the transaction that will sanction this court in atpro.
miseto furnisha
tachirg 'such a restriction to Barker's undertaking.
'was in effect a promise to furnish the funds necessary the funds neto carry into execution this adventure. Had itcon-rythe adven-"
VoL. III.

20

ture i0t exc-

cution,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
tained a mere guaranty of bills to be drawn on Taber
Sons, there might have been some ground for this ar'&
Lapusse
gument ; but where the defendant confers the right to
r.
Barker. draw upon himself, and, in fact,'clearly recommends a
1818.

preference to such bills, he makes himself the paymaster, and we consider it an original substantive undertaking. In this view of the case, the law quoted on
the subject of securityship undertakings cannot be applicable, and we think the plaintiff ought to recover
on this count.
There are other items in the plaintiff's deman 4,on
which, as the case will be sent back, it is necessaryto
express an opinion. The first is the charge of about
1200 dollars for services and expenses incident to this
agency; the other is the charge of interest.
The first of these items we are clearly of opinion
the plaintiff is entitled to, and that it is recoverable unwhereagen-der
the counts for services performed, and money exoral authority
to pended in th6 discharge of this undertaking. And as
given
i
a certain place to the second, we are equally satisfied that interest is
on account of'
advancestherd recoverable under the second count in nature of damaBut some difficulty has arisen on the question
,tralcgis.to-g
replaca thi whether the plaintiff is entitled to recover the interest
money at that
Newin- of New-Orleans or ofNew-York. The former, the bill
The
place. of
terest
-Orleans,there- of exceptions states to be ten per cent."- the latter
fore allowed in

this cue.

seven per cent.
Where a general authority is given to draw bills from
a certain place, on account of advances there made,
the underthkingis to replace the money at that place.
Had this bill on Barker been negotiated and returned
under protest, the holder would have been entitled to
demand of the drawer the interest of.New.Orleans, and

OF THE UNITED STATES.

147

thus incidentally at least, the defendant would have
1818.
been compelled to pay the plaintiff that interest. But •
Lanusse
it maybe contended that as the letter of the 26th apV.
pears to resticjt the order for this purchase, so as to Barker.
make it depend on the condition of the practicability of
negotiating bills on New-York, the undertaking of
Barker was limited to payments to be -made in NewYork. On this point the court ore of opinion that, even
though we attach this condition to Barker's undertaking, the liability to replace the money at New-Orleans still continued; and any necessary loss on the
bills on account of the difference of exchange, would
have been chargeable to the defendant; but we think,
farther, that the restrictive words in the letter alluded
to may justly be considered as enlarged into a general
order in his subsequent correspondence.
The court is therefore of opinion, that as the money
was advanced at New-Orleans, and to be replaced at
New.Orleans, the plaintiff may claim thq legal interest
at that place.
This court is of opinion that there is error-in the
judgment below, and that it.must be reversed. But this Agreet
court can do no more than order a venire fiacias de no- of the parties,
")0.

•
. from this
.
An attempt has been made to obtain

stating the amount
ages toofbedamad.
courtjudged
upon

a &andate to the circuit court, to enter a judgment in ....
ml

t"'

and a
conformity to an agreement of parties entered on the garded,
venire de nmo
transcript, which states the amount to be adjudged to awarded to
have the damthe plaintiff, .upon several alternatives. But we are of ages assessed
opinion that this court can take no notice of that con- by ajuryo
"nt.,

The- verdict 'presents no alternative: and the

48

-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

consent entered on the transcript or on the minutes of
the circuit court, forms no part of the record brought
'
this court be led
up ty this writ of error. Nor will
IN.
approaching the
nearly
so
power
Barker. into the exercise of a
province of a jury in assessing damages.
Judgment reversed.a
1818.

a Although contracts'of guaranty are *very familiar in the
practice of the commercial
world, comparatively few cases
have been subjected to judicial
decision in the English and
American tribunals. It may
not, however, be without use
to the learned reader, to collect the principal adjudications
on this subject, especially as
no attempt has yet been made
to bring them before the public in a connected view.
Contracts of guaranty, like
all commercial contracts; have
received a liberal interpretation in furtherance of the intention of the parties. But at
the same time, they are not
extended beyond the obvious
import of the terms in their
reasonable interpretation.Where, in a-letter of introduction of a mercantile firm,
the defendants used'the following terms.-"We do ourselves
the pleasure of introducing

them to your correspondence,
as a house on whose integrity
and punctuality, the utmost
dependence may be placed;
they will write you the nature
of their intentions, and you
may be assured of their complying fully with any contract
or " enrarements they may
enter into with you," it was
hbld that the letter did not
import a guaranty of such e .gagements ; and that parol evidence was not admissible to
explain the terms so is to affect
their import, with regard to
the supposed guaranty. Russel v. Clarke, 3 Dall. 415. S.
C. 7 Cranch, 69. So where
B. wrote to C. "as I. understarid Messrs. A. & Co. hare
given you an order for rigging,
&c. which will amount to
4,0001. I can assure you, from,
what I know of A.'s honur
and probity, you will be per.
fectly safe in crediting them to
that amount ; indeed I have no

-

OF THE UNITED STATFS.
1818.
objectionto guarantyyou against to 1241., all which had been
any lols, from giving them this paid for, and the sum now in Lanusse
V.
credit;" it was held that the dispute, (and which by the
Writing did not import a per- judgment of' the court, the Barker
fect and conclusive guaranty, plaintiff recovered,) wis for a
butonly a proposition or over- • farther supply to W. P. Mason
ture tending to a guaranty; v. Prichard, 2 Camp. . P.
and that to make it a guaranty, 436. S. C. 12 East. 227. So,
B. ought to have had notice, where the defendant wrote to
that it was so regarded and the plaintiff, "I have beenap-meant to be accpted or there plied to by my bruther, W. W.
should have been a subsequent to be bound to you for, apy.
congent on his part to convert debts he may -contract, no.t tl.
it into a conclusive guaianty. exceed 1001. (will you,) for
I gooos necessary in his businessM'Iver v. Richardson
Jiaule and Sehyn, 557. But ft a jeweller; I have wrote to
it is said that the words are to say by this declaration, I conbe taken as strongly again,; the sider myself bound 'to you for
party giving the guirdnty, as any debt lie may contract for
the sense bf them ivill admit his business as a jeweller, not
of, Therefore, where the de- "exceeding I 00l.after this date."
fendant wrote the plaintiff, Lord Ellenborough said, that
"I hereby promise to be re- the defendant was answerable
sponsible to T. MI. [the plain- for any debt not exceeding
tiffI,] for any goods he hath or 1001.,which W. W. mightfrom
may supply my brother W.- P. time to time contract with the
to the amount of 100," it was plaintiff in the way of business;
held that this was a sanding that the guarinty was not conor conduing guar,,n!y to the fined to cre instance, but apextent of 1001., which might plied to debts successively reat any time beconle.due for newed; and that if a party
goods supplied, until the credit meant to be a surety only for
was recalled. At the time the a single dealing, he should say
letter was written, goods had so. Merle v. Wells, 2 .Camp.
been supplied to the amount of .N P.R. 413. So, where the
661., and afterwards, another defendant *wrote, "I hereby
parcel was delivered, amount- undertake and engage to. be.
ing together with the former answerable to the extent of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

3001. fdr any tallow or soap
supplied by Mr. B. [the plainLanusse
tiff] to F. & B., provided they
V.
Barker. shall neglect to pay in due
time;"Lord Ellenborongh held
it to be a continuing guaranty
while the parties continued to
deal on the footing established
when it was givei but that
goods supplied after 'new arrangements were made, were
not within, the scope of the
guaranty; and he relied on the
word "any," without wlhich
he thought it might perhaps be
confined to one dealing to the
imount of 3001. Baston v. Bennett, 3 Camp. X. P. 20. But
in debt or a bond entered into
by A. and B. with the plaintiis,
reciting,that it was to enable A.
to carry on his trade, and conditioned for the payment of all
such sum or sums of money
not exceeding 30001. with lawful interest which should or
might at any time or times
thereafter be advanced, and
lent by the plaintiffs to A. or
paid to his use, by his order
and direction," it was held,
that it was a guaranty for the
definite amount of 30031., and
when an advance was made to
that amount, the guaranty becameJunctus officio, and was
not a continuing guaranty,
Kirby v. Duke ofMarlborough

2 .Maule and Seltwan, 18.
And, where the -defendants
wrote to the plaintiff "If W.
& B., our sons, wish to take
goods of you on credit, we are
willing to lend our names as
.security for any amount they
may wish," the court held,
that it was not a continuing
guaranty, but was confined to
the first parcel of goods sold to
W. & B.; that it gave an unlimited credit as to amourd,
but was silent as to the continuance of the credit 'to future
sales, and expressio unius, est exclusio allerius. Rogers v.
Warner, 8 Johns. Rep 119.
and in, a very recent case,
where the defendants wrote
to the plaintiff, "our friends
and connexions S. & II. H.
contemplate under certain circumstances, making a considerable purchase of goods on
the continent, and for that
purpose, are about to send an
agentto Europe. Theywished a -letter of credit from us
to increase their means, and
to be used -or not as circumstances may require. As we
are now indebted to you, and
have no funds on the continent
of Europe, we told them we
could not give a positive letter
of credit for any sum, but that
we had no doubt you would

OF THE UNITED STATES.
be disposed to furnish them guarantee, and not a joint debtwith funds tinder our guaranty. or, and that a contract by C.
The object of the present let- with B. to pay him a premium
ter, is therefore, to request for guaranteeing a contract
you, if conveient, to furnish of C. with -a third person was
them with any sum they may within A's promise. Meade v.
want, as far as $50,000, say M'Dowell, 5 Binney, 195.
50,000 dollars. They will reA. guaranty to the plaintiffis
imburse you the amount they "that if they will credit D. a
receive, together with interest, sum not exceeding $500 in
as soon as arrangements can case he shall nat pay it in
be made to do it. We shall twelye months, the guarante
hold ourselves answerable to will pay it," doe.s not imply a
you for the amount;" it was- condition that the plaintiff may
held, that was a guaranty fot not advance more than $ 500,
a single advance to the amount if the additional advance be on
of 50,000 dollars, and not a the general credit of D.-Sturcontinuing guaranty, tolies quo- ges v. Robins,7 Mass. R,so1.
ties, to that amount, arid that
A guaranty, "we jointly and
as soon as 50,000 dollars were severally promise to guaranty a
once advanced, the guaranty payment of 5001. at percent.
5
ceased to operate upon future say, by a bill drawn on G. H.
advances, although by inter- by D. and F. for 500!L dated
mediate payments the sum due 10th of January, 1808," is' to
at the time of such new ad- be construed as a general guavances, were below 50,000 ranty-of the bill, not(as usual)
dollars. Cremer v. Iligginson, a guaranty that the acceptor
circuit court U. S. lass. Oct. should pay, but a contractthat
T. 1817. MSS. Where A. re- either the drawer or the accepquested B. to give C. any as- tor should pay. Philips v. Astsistance in the purchase of ling, 2 Taunt. Rep. 206. But
goods, by letter, or otherwise, upon such a guaranty (if it is to
adding, "you may consider be construed as limiting the bill
me' accountable with him to to the specific sum of 500M)
you, for any contract he may the guarantee would not be limake; it was held, that A. able to the extent even of the
was to be considered as a • 5001. if the bill be 'drawn for a

1818.
Lanusse
V.

Barker,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
of the partnerlarger sum ; for the terms of t he formation,
hip. Bellairs v. Elsworth, !
tile contract must be strictly s
Cainp. A. P. 53. So a bond
Ianusse
complied with. lb. And a guaV.
conditioned ,orepay all sums
to b,
Barker. ranty to A. for goods
idvanced by .fiv persons, or
sold by him on credit to B.
any of them, was held not to
will not enure tO the benefit of
extend to sums advanced afa third person, who shall acter the decease of one of them
tually furnish the goods to B.
by the four survivors, the four
although at the request of A.,
then acting as bankers. Wesfor a surety is not to be held
ton v. Barton, 4 Taunt. 674.
be~ond the scope of his own
And to the same effect will be
engagement. Robbins v. Bing- found the following cass ;
ham 4 Johns. Rep. 476. Walsh
Arlington v,Merritt, 2 Saund,
v. Bailie, 10 Johns. iep. 180. 44. Wright v. Russel, 2 WV.
And see I M,aide 4-Seiv. 557. B1. 934. S.C. 3 Vils. 539.
So if a letter of credit be ad- Barker v. Parker, T. R 287.
dressed to A., and part of the lyers v. Ede, 7 T. R. 254.
goods are delivered by A., and Strange v. Lee, 3 East, 484.
pait by 1. and D., the latter But if a bond be given to truscannot recover on the guaran- tees conditioned for the faithty. Robbins y. Binvha i, 4, fil service of a per.on during
Johns. Rep. 476. S), a letter his c ntinuancu in the service
of guaranty, addressed to J. & ofa fiuctuatng or successive
A. N. by mistake, for J. & J. body orl persons, not incorporaN. will not cover advances
ted, as the Globe Insurance
made by the latter on the faith Cotlpany, it will extend to thg
of the letter. Grant v. Naylor, whole time tle party is in the
4 Cranch,2-4. Iany cases an- service of such company, alalogous to this have been deci- though the members may be
ded. As where A. became continually changing,. Metcalf
surety by bond that B. should v. Uruin. 12 East. 400. An
truly account to C. for all agent in England for merchants
sums of money received by B. the vendors of goods in Russia
for O.'s use, and afterwards B. who guaranties "that the shiptook a partner with C.'s know- ment shall be in conformity
ledge, it vas ruled that the with the revenue laws of Great
guaranty ad not extend to Britain, so that no impediment
sums received by B. and his
partner, for C.'& use, after
iS 18.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
alrall arise upon the importa- ces made, and of the non-payI818
tion thereof, or that in default. ment by the debtor.- In Oxley
the consequences shall rest. v. Young, 2 H. Bl. 613, where Lanusse
V.
with the sellers,"makes himself the defendant, upon an under- Barker.
personally responsible to the taking of D. to indemnify himi
vendee. Readhead a al. v. guarantied to the plaintiff an
Cator, I Slarkz'a . P. R. 14. order sent to him by A. for
An impediment arising from certain goods, and the plaintiff
non.compliance with the .Nav- informed the defendant that the
igalion Act, is an impediment goods were preparing, but did
within the terms ofthe guaran- not give him notice of the ac.
ty. And such a guaranty is tual shipment, the court
not within the statute of frauds, thought that the right to sue
if the terms of the agrebment on the guaranty attached when
can be collected from the writ- the order was put in a train for
ten correspondence between execution, subject to its being
the parties. Id. A. engages to actually executed; and that the
guarantee the amount of goods notice of such intended execusupplied by B. to C., provided tion was sufficient; -and the
18 months credit be given; if court farther thought, that
B. gives credit for 12 months that right could not be devested
only, he is not entitled, at the even by a wilful neglect of
expiration of six months more, the plaintiff, though, perhaps,
to call upon A. or his guaranty. he might be liable to an action
But B. having, after the com- on the case at the suit of the
mencement of the action, deli- defendant, if any such neglect
vered an invoice from which could be shown contrary to all
it appears that credit was given good faith, and by which a loss
for 12 months only, is dt liber- had been incurred. In Peel
ty to show that this was a mis- v. Tutlock, I Bos. 4r Pull. 419.
take, and that, ;n fact, 18 Chief Justice Eyre appears to
months credit was given. Ba- have been of opinion, that at
con v. Chesney, 1 Starkica . least in guaranties for go. d be-,
haviour, notice of any embez,
RP.
. 192.
In cases of guaranty, it has zlement or fraud ought to be
been made a question, wheth- given within a reasonable time;
er notiae ought to be givefi to but the case finally went off'
ounds. lza
the guar.ntee of the advan- upon narrower
VOL. .11.
Z

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Russell v. Clarke, 7 Cranch, the vendeq, and. that in a de'92. it was distinctly held claration upon such a guaran'~'69.
Lanusse by the court, that if the con- tee arainst the agent, it is uny.
any appli-,
Barker. tract in that case had been a necessary to allege
guaranty, it would certainly cation for indemnity to the
Readhead d at,
aave been the duty of the principals.
plaintiff to have given immedi- v.Cator,1 Slar e's N.P.R.M14
ate notice to the defendant of And it is' not necessary to sue
the extent of his engagement. the debtor, b fore the right atAnd the same doctrine was as- taches to sue on the gtwrafnty.
certedin the circuit court, in Bank of New-York v. LivingCremer v. Higginson, already ston, 2 fohns. Cas. 409. And
where the guaranty is of a note
cited.
Where there is a guaranty or bill payable at future time,
of advances or supplies, it is ne- although it is not necessary to
cessary in the first instance to pursue the same strictness im
make a demand of payment order to charge a guarantee as
from the original debtor, or at to charge !he drawer; yet a
leastto use reasonable diligence due demand and notice of nonin endeavoring to make such payment ought to be given to
a demand, and notice of non- the drawer and guarantee;
payment must be given in a and if the necessary steps are
reasonable time to the guaran- not taken to obtain payment
tee. This may be collecte l as from the parties who are liathe general result of the cases ble on the bill, and solvrent, the
on this subject. But where an guarantee is dieharged. Philagent in England, for mer- lips v, Astling, 2 Taun. 206.
chants the vendors of goods in Warrington v. Furber, 8 East.
Russia, who guarantees "that 245. But it is a sufficient exthe shipment shall be in con- cuse for not making a demand,
formity with the revenue laws that'the debtor cannot be found
of Great Britain, so that no or that he is :nsolvent. Warimpediment shall arise upon rington v. Furber, 8 East, 245.
the importation thereof, or that Phillips v. Astling, 2 Taunt.
in default the consequence shall 206. And if there be gross
rest with the sellers," it was laches in securing the debt,
held that the agent made him- (Dural v. Trask, 13 .Mass. R.
self personally responsible to 154. The People Y. Jansen,
1818.

OP THE UNITED STATES.
I Tohns. R, 332, Hunt v. United States, I Galh.s, 34.) or if
the creditor undertake to do
any thing whereby to lessen or
postpone the regponsibility of
the debtor; (Commissioners of
Berks v. Ross, Binney, 520,)
or if the right of the parties be
altered, as if any new debt
have been incurred; or if the
demand have been enlarged to
the prejudice of the guarantee;
(Peel v. Tatlock, 1 Bos. 4
Ptd. 419, King v. Baldwin,
2Johx,. Chan.R.554. Bbultbee
v. Stubbs. 18 es.20.) or if the
,reditor give time to his debtor
without the knowledge of the
guarantee; (Skip v. Huey, 3
.Alk. 91,6 Yes. 809. notea.
Rees v.Berrington, 2 Fes. Jn.
540. Nisbit v. Smith, 2 .Bro.
Ch. Cas. 579. loore v. Bowmaker, 6 Taunt. 379. S. C. 2
.Marshall'sR. 81.) or if upon
a guar2nty of a partnership
debt, the partnership debt is
discharged by carrying the
propottions of each partner to
his separate account without
any notice to the -guarantee ;
(Cremer v. Higgonson, MSS.
above cited;) or if there be a
fraudulent concealment to the
injury of the guarantee ; (Oxley v. Young, 2 H. Bl. 613,
Semble, Eyre, C. J.) in all
these cases the auarantee is

18"18.
discharged. And it has been
held in a recent case, that if
Linusse
the holder of a note is requestV;
ed by the surety, (being one of ]Barker.
the joint makers,) to proceed
without delay and collect the
money of the principal, who is
solvent, and he omits to do it,
until the principal becomes insolvent, the surety will be exonerated at law. (Paine v.
Packard, 13 Johns. R. 174,)
But this deeision has been
questioned- by very high authority. (King v. Baldwin, 2
Johns. Chan. R. 563, 564.)
Where there are.several debts
due, some of which are guartied and some not, and payments are made by one debtor, the same general rule applies in this as in other cases,
that where the debtor makes
no aplication of any payment,
the creditor may apply it to
any account be pleases. (Kirby v. Duke of Marlborough, a
3Iaule 4- SIw. 18. Dawson v.
Remnant, 6 .Esp. R. 26.Field
v. 11lolland, 6 Cranch. 8.
Hutchinson v. Bell, 1 Taunt.
558. Sturges v. Robbins, 7
Alass. R. 301.)
Pothier, in his treatise on
obligations, has discussed with
great learning and ingenuity
the whole doctrine of suretyshib aid vuarantv. Trailte des"

CAS9S IN THI, SUPREME OOURT,
1818.

'Lanusse

Obligaiions,paft 2. ch. 6. lect.
1 to 8. Among other things;

he remarks, that tart should
Maker. be,taken not to take for a pro,
uise t6 become'surety, what
,one says or'writes-, unless there
be a well-marked' intention to
do so. Therefore, 'e adds,
if I wrote or said to you, that
a. rnam who asked you to lend
-you monq, was solvent, -this
coutd not be taken for an
•agreement to become a slirety
for I might'well have no other
intention than to inform you of
what I believed to be the case
,and not to bind myself On
this principle it was adjudged
in a case reported inPapon X.
4. 12. that these wordain a
letter to the keeper of a boarding-house, "A. B. iptends to
send his son to board with you.
He is, an honest man and will
pay you well," did not include
an obligation. On the same
.principle, if I accompany a
t
person to a woolen-draper s,
Vwhere he buys cloth, the draper ought not to conclude that
I am security for him. The
'following distinctions and principles stated .by this learned
-writer, seem worthy of notice,
,in reference to -the subject of
this note.' 1. 'Where the surety
has expressed the sum and
-cause for which he became
,surety, his obligation does not
V.

extend beyond the sum abd
cause expressed. As if one
become bound for the principal
debt, he will not be liable for
interest. Q. On the other hand,
when the words of the suretyship are general and indetetminate,lthe surety is presumed
e bound himself Tor all
to ha%
the o'bligatiOns of the debtor
resulting from the contract to
which he acceded; and, therefore, a *suretyin generel terms,
is bound not only for th'a pincipal suln, but for interest; and
not only for the interest due ex
rei natura, but for that occasioned by the delay of the
debtor. And this is conformable to the doctrine of the Romanlaw, 3. And, in general,
hovever u-nlimited the suretyship may be; it does not extend
to the penalties to which the
debtor may be colidemned.

ojficiojndices p'optersuam canLunaciam. 4. The obligation
of suretyship is extinguished
by an extinction of the princi.
pal debt ; -by the creditor's disablinghimself by his own act
from ceding his action against
his principal debtor, which the
surety has an interest in having
assigned to him; by the creditor's accepting in payment property, the title to which afterwards proves to be invalid, at
least if the p.incipal debtor in

bF THE UNITED STATE9thb mean time becomes insolvent. 5. Andthe principaldebt
maybe extinguished not only by
payment ora set off or release,
but also by a novation of the
debt, that is, by accepting a
new obligation in dischqrge of
the old one. 6. Pothier then
puts the case, whether the
.surety be discharged by the
creditor's granting to the debtor a delay for the payment, and
agrees With Vinnins in holding the negative, for he says,
the simple delay, not making
the debt appear discharged,
deprives the surety of no means
of providing for hi own safety
and the surety cannot pretend That the delay prejudices
him, since he himself derives an advantage from it.
7. According to the principles of the ancient civil law,
the ereditor could demand paymehti'from the surety without
first resorting for payment to
the principal debtor. Byt Justinian altered that rule, and
gave to the surety an exception or plea, which is called an
exception of discussion, or of
order, by. which he may require the creditor to proceed
in the first instance against the
principal debtor. And this

. rule, with some exceptiOns,
was adopted into the ancient
jurisprudence of France. But
at no time, either in the civil or
French law, did the bringing of
a suit by the creditor against
his principal debtor discharge
the surety, who, theref9re, remained bound until payment.
And the omission of the creditbr to institute a suit of discussion against the principal
debtor, notwithstanding a request of the surety, until after
the debtor becomes insolvent,
is not thought to disbharge the
surety. But if a surety had
contracted only to pay what the
creditor could not obtain fron
the principal debtor, an omission to sue for a long time,
and until after an insolvency,
may discharge the surety. 8.
To entitle the surety, after payment, to recover over against
the prificipal debtor, it is necessary that the surety should
not have neglected, by his.owr
fault, to plead any proper plea
in bar of the creditor; that the
payment should have been valid, aid sh9uld have. discharged the principal debtor; and
that theprincpal debtor should
not have paid a second time ny
the fault of the surety See

181;
-

V.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Baieker.

.Poihier,Traite des Obligations
part 2. ch. 6. s. I to 8. The
Code .Napoleon, or civil code,
adopts, for the most part, the
doctrines stated in Pothier.
L'.£v. s. lit. 14. art. 2011, 4c. to
2043. It declares that a guaranty or suretyship, (cautionnement,) ought not to be presumed; it ought to be express;
and ought not to be extended
beyond the limits of the contract itself. Anindeflnite-guaranty of a principal obligation
extends to all the accessories
of the debt. The guarantee
is not bound to pay but upon
the defaultvof the debtor, who
o.ught, in the first instance, to
be sued by discussion, against
his'goods. In a suit against
the guarantee, he may enter
the same exceptions to the
debt (except they are purely personal) as the principal
debtor may. . The surety is
discharged, when by the act of
the creditor the guarantee cannot have the benefit of a sub-

stitution to the rights, hypoth
ection, and privileges of the
creditor. A simple postponement of the time granted by
the creditor to the debtor, does
not-oischarge the guarantee,
who may, however, in that
case, pursue the debtor to enforce paymnt. Code .Napoleon, ubi supra. See also, the
Digest of the civil Laws of
Louisiana, p. 429. .Erskine~
Instilutes of the Laws of Scotland, 10th ed. 320 The coincidences between the doctrines of the common law, and
those of the civil law, and the
codes derived from it, are
very striking; and the differences in particular cases,
seem to result rather from the
difference of the remedies, of
guaranties and sureties, under
the various systems, J(which,
of course, require a corresponding change asto.theirliability,) than from any theoretical opposition in principles.

