OF THE UNITED STATES.
suppression, or any gross misconduct inconsistent with
1818.
good faith; and, therefore, .we are of opinion, that
Brown
condemnation ought to be to the captors.
v.
It is the unanimous opinion of the court, that the de- Jackson.
cree of the circuit court be affirmed, with costs.
Decree affirmed.

(CoMmox LAW.)

BROWN V. JACKSON.
Although the grantees in a deed executed after, but recorded Sefore,
another conveyance of the same land, being boaiflt purchasers with.
out notice, are by law deemed to possess the better title;: yet wherq
L. conveyed to C. the landin controversy specifically. describing hin"
self as devisee of A. S. by whom the land was owned in his life time'
and by a subsequent deed (which was first recorded) L. conveyed
to B. "all the right, title, and claim, which he, the said A. S., had
and all the right, title and interest which the said S. holds as legateo
and representative to the said A. S. deceased, of all land lying and
being within the state of Kentucky, which cannot at this time be
particularly described, wliether by deed, patent, mortgage, qurvey
s
location, contract, or otherwise," with a covenant of warranty
against all persons claiming under L. his *heirsand assigns; it was
held, that the latter conveyance operated only upon lands, the right
tie and interest of which was then in L. and which he derivedfrom
A. S., and consequently, could not defeat the operation of The firgt
dced upon the land specifically, conveyed.

ERRoR to the circuit court for the district of Xentucky.
VOL. III.
58

450

CASES IN TH. SUPREME COURT

This was an action of ejectment, brought by the
1818.
defendant in error 'against the plaintiff in error, to
'
Brown
w. recover th possession of certain lands in the state of
Jackoon. Kentucky. To support his action, the plaintiff below
showed the fdalowing title' a phtent to Alexander
Skinner; fhe will of Alexander Skinner, devising
all his estate to' Henry Lee ; and a deed from Henry
Lee to. Adam Craig, con.veying the tract of land in
controversy specifically by metes and bbunds, describing himseif as devisee of Skinner; with a regu"
lar deductioi:b f title from Craig to, the plaintiff.
The, deed from Lee to Craig was dated the 23d of
December, 1790 ; attested by three witnesses ; acknowledged by the grantor on the 15th of Oecember, 1795, before two justices of the peace in Virginia, and recorded in the" 6ourt of appeals in Kentucky,
on the 26th of July, 1796. The execution of this
deed was proved by one of the subscribing witnesses.
The defendant below produced in:,evidence a deed
frdm Henry Lee to' Henry Banks, dated the. 5th of
May, 1795, acknowledged betore.the mayor of Richmond, Virginia, on the 13th of May, 1795, and recorded in the court of appeals of Kentucky, on the
11th of luly,'1796, granting "all the right, title; and
claim which he the said Alexander Skinner had, and
all the right, title, and interest .which the said Lee
holds -as legateb and rqpresenitive to the baid Alexander Skinner, deceased, of all land, lying and being
wilin the state of Kentucky,. which.cannot at this
time be particularly described, whether they be by
reed,,tatent, mortgage, survey, location, contract or

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1311.
otherwise," 'with a covenant of warranty agaiist all
assigns.
and
heirs
his
Lee,
under
persons claiming
counsel moved Bw
Upon this testimony'tle defendant's
the court to instruct the jury, that by virtue of the Jackson.
deed aforesaid, from Lee to Banks, first acknowledged and first recorded, the legal title was vested in the
said Banks to the land in question; that the deed un.
der which the plaintiff 'clatmed was not operative.
and valid a'gainst the deed to Banks, and that the
said deed to Banks showed such a legal' title out of
the plaintiff as that he could not maintain his action
The question of fact, whether the deed of Lee to
Craig was duly executed on the day it bears date
was left by the court to-the jury, who found a verdict for the plaintiff, subject to the opiriio.4 of the court,
upon the question of law arising in the cause. Judgment was thereupon rendered for the plaintiff by the
court below, and the cause was brought to this court
by writ of error.
The cause was argued by Mr. Talbot, for the plain- March 34
tiff in error, and by Mr. Swann, for the defendant in
error.
Mr. Justice TODD delivered the opinion of the 2rsk 7th.
court. In this case the question of fact, whether the
deed of Henry Lee to Adam Craig was duly execu-.
ted on the day it bears date, was left by the court to
the jury, and upon the evidence, they properly found
a verdict in favour of that .deed, as an existing deed
at that time.
The material question for the consideration of this

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
court is, whether, under the circumstances of this case,
Brown~ the deed of Henry Lee" to Henry Banks, which was

Brown

V.
Jackson.

executed after, but recorded before, the deed of Lee to
Craig has a priority over the'latter.
This depends upon the construction of the ierw
of the conveyance from Lee to Banks ; for if it conveys the same land as the deed to Craig, then the
parfies claiming under it, being bona fide purchasers,
'without notice of Craig's deed, ate by law deemed to
possess the better title.
It is necessary to bear in mind, that Alexander
Skinner, by his will, devised all hi; real estate to, Lee,
-and that Lee, by his deed to Craig, conveyed the
tract of land in controversy, specifically by metes and
boundary, describing himself as devisee of Skinner.
By his deed to Banks, he grants "all the right, title
and claim, which he the said Alexander Skinner had,
and *11 the right, title, and interest which the said
Lee holds as legatei and representative to the said
Alexander Skinner, deceased, of all land, lying and
,being within the state of .Kentucky, which cannot at
this time be particularly described, whether they be
by deed, patent, mortgage, survey, location, contract,
or otherwise ; and then follows a covenant of war
ranty against all persons claiming under Lee, his heirs
and assigns,
A conveyance ok the right, title, and interestin land,
'is certainly sufficient to pass the land itself, if the
party conveying' has an. estate therein at the time of
the 'conveyance; but it passes no estate which was
not then possessed by the party. If the deed to
Banks had. stopped after the words-" all' the right,
-

OF THE UNITED STATE$.
title and claim which Alexander Skinner bad," there j!8.
might be strong ground to contend, that it embraced"all
BroW
the lands to which Alexander Skinner had any right,
v.
title, or claim, at the time of his death, and thus have JIckson.
included the lands in controversy. But the court i;
'of opinion, that those words are qualified by the
succeeding clause, which limits theconveyance to the
right, title, aud claim, which Alexander Skinner had at
the time of his decease, and which Lee tlso held at the
-time of his eonveyance,.andcoupling both clauses together, the conveyance operated only upon lands, the right,
title, and interest of which was then in Lee, and which
h6 derived from Skinner. This construction is, in
the opinion of the court, a reasonable one, founded on
the apparent intent of the parties, and corroborated by
the terms of the covenant of warranty. Upon any other construction, the deed must be deemed a fraud upon
the prior purchaser-: but in this way both deedi may
well stand together, consistently with the innocence
of all parties.
Judgment affirmed.

