CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
(COMMON LAW.

Swan
V.

Union

Ins.

Company.

SwAN

v.

THE UNioN INSURANCE COMPANY olr

MARYLAND.
To entitle the p]aintiff to recover in an action on a policy of Insuran;C9r
against.
the loss must be eccationed by one of the perils insured

The insured cannot recover for a loss by barratry, unless the barraso protry produced the loss; but it is immaterial whethe the loss,
afteror
barratry
the
of
duced, occurred during the continuance
wards.

ERROR to the circuit court for the district of Mary-

land.
This was an action on a policy of Insurance upon
the schooner Humming Bird, at and from New-York
to Port ,u Prince, and at and from thence back to
New-York. The policy was dated on the 21st of July,
1810, and the vessel sailed on the voyage insured on
the 5th of that month. About the 5th of August follow
ing, she arrived at Port au Prince, and was there stripped of her sails and a considerable part of her rigginig
by one James Gillespie, to whom she had been chartered
for the voyage. This was done with the knowledge
and acquiescence of the master, either for the purpose
of procuring the loss of the vessel, or of fiting up anoth
er vessel, which Gillespie wished to despatch to the
United States. On her return voyage she was sunk by
Gillespie, but whether with or without the knowledge
of the master, did not appear. The plaintiff insisted
at the trial, that as barratry had been committed at
Port.au Prince, the subsequent loss, however occa-

169

OF THE UNITED STATES.

sioned, was to be ascribed to thvat.cause, and he was 1818.
swa
the jury
5wari
"
. the Court directed
entitled to recover. But
r.
barratry,
be
to
Prince
au
Port
that, admitting the act at
Ins.
un-Union
it,
of
account
on
the plaintiff could not recover
Company.
the
produced
that'it
opinion
of
less the jury should be
Under this direction, to which the plaintiff
loss.
excepted, the jury found a verdict for the defendants.
Mr. Harper, for the plaintiff, argued that the loss, Feb. 121h.
though not immediately consequent upon the act of
barratry, was a ground of recovery; the insured ought
to be protected against the incidental, consequences of
that act; and could not else have the benefit of his contract of indemnity. In the case of yalleip v. Wheeler,a the smuggling which was the barratrous act, was
not the immediate and dire 't z;iuse of the loss: yet the
insured recovered, because the loss was sustained in
consequence of the alteration of the voyage. Sergeant
Marshall deduces from the case this corrolary, that if
barratry be once committed, every subsequent loss or
damage may be ascribed to that cause; and the underwriters are liable for it as for a loss by a barratry.b
Mr. Winder, contra, contended that it did not appearthat the act of the master at Port au Prince was harra..
that
trous, or any thing more than gross neglect, or
supposed
his
of
he had any interest in the 'consequences
misconduct. The case. of Vallejo v. Wheeler does not
a Cowp. 143.

VOL. III.

0Alarshallon Ins. 528.

23

b Id. 531.

OF THE UNITED STATES,

170

support the inference of Marshall, and his opinion is
not authority any further than it is borne by the case,
I has been doubtedt by the most enlightened jurists,
Union Ins. whetherbarratry ought to be the subject, of insurance,
Company. and certainly it ought not to be extended beyond its di1818.
Swan
,."

rect and immediate consequence'.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion
of the court, and after stating the facts, proceeded as
follows,:
is, that to enThe insured The general principle unquestionably
be occasioned
must
rumnot recover title the plaintiff to recover, the loss
for a loss by
barratry, un- by one of the perils, in the policy. This is equally the
less the barracontry produced rule of reason and the rule of law. But the plaintiff
theloss; but it
Wheeler deniesthe
is mnatrial tends that the caseof Vallejo v.
u- application of this principle to a loss in a case in
os pro he
lsether
This, court is
cd occurred which barratry has been committed.
durdug the con
af'
or
barrati7,
of that opinion.. The case of Vallejo v. Wheeler
tinuanceofthenot
declares it to be, immaterial whether the loss occurred
terwards,
Feb. ISth.

during the continuance of the barratxyor afterwards, not
whether the loss was produced by the barratry. -In that
ease the court was of opinion that theloss was produced
'by the harratry.
-Judgment Affirmed.a
a The cases on the subject
of barratry are collected in
Condey's edition of Marshall
on lnsurqnce, vol. 2 p. 515 d
infra, and note (84) p. 534.

To which add the following
Where 'the owner of a vessel
chartered her to the master
for a certain period of time,
the master covenanting to

OF THE UNITED STATES.

11ft -

victual and man her athis own ly put up a lighted -candle jn
1818.
,expense, he was held to be the binnacle, which took firo,
Swvan
owner pro hao vice, and no act and communicating to some
of his would amouit to barra- powdei the vessel was blown Union Ins..
try. And if he committed an up, and wholly- lost; it was Company.
act, which, were he invested held that the insurers were
with no other chfaracter than not liable for th6 loss. A loss
that of master, would be bar- occasioned by the meie negliratrous, the insurer would not gence or carelessness of the
be liable 6ven to an innocent master or mariners, does not
owner of the goods laden on amount to barratry, which
hoard the vessel. Hallett v. an act done with a fraudulent
The Columbian Ins. Co. 8 intent, or enaleflcio. Grim vJohns. Rep. 272. Barratry The United Ins. Co. 13 Johns.
May be committed by thD mas- Rep. 451. See 8 .Mass. Rep.
ter, in respect of the cargo, 308. A sentence condemning
although the owner of the car-" as enemy's property a cargo,
go is, at the same time, owner which the master had barraof the ship; and although the trously carried into an enemy's
owner ii, also, supercargo or. .blockaded port, although conconsignee for the voyage. clusive evidence that the carCook et al. v. The Commer- go was enemy's property at
cial Ins, Co. 11 Johns. Rep. 40. the time cf capture and con'QuQre, Whether information demnation, does not disprove
or facts, known to the assured an -averment that the cargo
as to the carelessness, extra- was lost by, the ciptain's-barvagange, and want of economy ratrously. carrying it to places
in 4he master, be material, unknown, whereby the goodsand ought to be disclosed to became liable to confiscation,
the insurer at the time of ef- and were confiscated. Goldfecting the policy ? Walden v. dehmidt v.Whitmore, 3 Truh.
The Firem. Ins. Co. 12 Johns. 508. Where the plaintiff deRep. 128.513; Avessel was clared'on a policy from Jutland
insured, among other risks, to Leith, and aierred 'a, 16ss
againstfirpe; during the voyage by seizure; the master testi-

a seaman of the crew careless- fled that the ship was pursuing

CASES IN THE SUPREIE COURT
have recdived instructions to
her course for Leith, when touch at Norway ; and for
sh-..vas captured by a Swedish
she might have
frigate, five German oiles'off other reasons
Dugan
any imwithout
thither,
gone
Y.
The
Norwivdy
of
coast
the
But
States.
barratry.
Unit
putation of
defendant produced-a Swedish' the court did not decide whesentence of condemnation for ther the plaintiff could have
breaking the blockade of Nor- recovereW without a count for
way. Hfeld, that this was conbarratry, nor whether, upon a
-clusive evidence of the breach - count for barratry,the sentence
of blockade, but that it was not for a breach of blockade would
sufficieht I evidence to fix th be conclusive. Everth et al. v.
master'with barratry: That
Hannam, 2 Marshall's Rop.
cannot be done, unless he act 72. S. C. 6 Taunt. 375. Im'criminally ; ind today that he proper treatment of the vessel
broke the blockade in disobe- ,by the master,will not constiinstructions of
dience to tlie
tute bn rratry, although it tend
his owners, from some private to the destruction of the vesinterest of his own, was too sel, unless it be sbown that he
strong an inference from the acted against his own judgevidence as it stood. The Iment.
Todd v. Richie, 1
4
ship -might have been bound Sjarkqn'3
N . P. e40.
fbr "Leith, and .yqt 'might
1818.

(doDMoN LAw.)

.Du'Aci

et al., Executors of

CLARK, v.

Tun UNITED

STATES.
T. T., treasurer of the
WhIhere a bill of exchange was endorsed to T.
and for acc unt of
capacity,
the
in
it
received
United States, Who
by the Secretary
the United States, and the bill had been purchased
fund, amd
sinking
the
of
of the Treasury (as one of the commissioners

of the United States, and
as agent of that board) with the money

