OF THE UNITED

STATES:

691

1818.
the land, was to betaken as personalty or land ; and
although he mentions the case of Roper, v. Radcliffe, Cameroa
v.
he adds, that he does not depend upon it, as it was imblRoberts.
as
considered
be
to
was
surplus
material whether the
land or rhoney under the mortmain" act.
Upbn the whqle, we are uaani:nluily of opinion,
that the legacy given to Thomi.s Craig, in the will of
Robert Ciaig, is to be co-isi.lere.l as a bequest of personal estate, which he is capable of t-ekirg for his own
benefit.
Certificate accordingly.

(CHANCERY.)

C.,mErtoN v. M'RoBERTS.
in equity
The circuit courts have no power to set aside their di~erees
,on motion, after the term at which tfiey are rendered.
in the cirWhere MIR. a citizen of Kentucky. brought a suit in eq'iity,
of Vircuitcourt of Kentucky, Oga net C. C..stated to be a ctizrr
; all
citizenship
of
deaignation
any
ginia, and E. J. & S. E.. without
pronoun.
was
decree
a
and
;
ansivred
-.nd
appeared
the defunda~fts
codfor the plaintilf; it wa h.ld, that ifaj.int intorestves ed in,CZ,

over the
C. and the other defindanto,'the court had no jurisdiction

substancause. But that if distinct interest ve-ted in C. C. s. that
affecting
tial justice,(mo far as he w concerned.)could be done without
might ba lesreis e d
the other defendants, the jurisdiction of the court
ed anto him alone.

APPEAL from the circuit court for the district o(

Kentucky.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT"

592
"1818.

John MIRoberts, stated in the leadings to be a
of the slate of Kentucky, brought his suit in
Cameron
equity, in the district court of Kentucky (said court
V.
M'Roberts. then having by law the jurisliction of a circuit
court,) against. Charles Cameron, stated to be a
citizen . of Virginia, dnd Ephraim Jackson, Samuel IEmerson, and other parties named in the bill,
without any designation of citizenship. The defendant Cameron was not srvel with process,
but appeared and answered the bill, as did, the
The cause was heard, and at
other defendants.
the November term of said court, in 1804, a final
M'Rodecree was pronounceil far the plaintiff
I
berts.
In1805, the defendant Cameron filed a bill of review, which is now pending and at the May term of
the circuit court, of 1811, moved the court to set
aside the decr~e, and to dismiss the suit, because the
want of jurisdiction appeared on the record; and
upon the allegation that the said J ikson,. Emerson,
and the other parties to the bill, were, in fact, citizens of the state of Kentucky. On wlhich motion the
following quettions arose:
1st. Has the circuit court power and jurisdiction
over a judgment or decree, so. as to set the same
aside after the term 'at which it was pronounced?
2d. If it has, could it be exercise.1 after the Japse o
five years?
3d. Had the district court jurisdiction of the cause
as to the defendant Cameron and the other dcfendants.
If not, hid thq court jurisdiction as td th4 defendant
Cameron alone ?
'

'citizen

OF THE UNITED STATE9.
Upon which questions the judges 'of the, circuit
S -were ordered
court being devided in opiniQn, the same
court.
this
to
to be certified

18I1.
Ca-mer6n
v.
M'Roberti.

The cause was argued at the last term by .Mr. .A.
D. Hardin,for the plaintiff, M'Roberts; -no counsel
appearing for the defendant.
At the peesent term of this court it'was ordered to
be certified to the circuit'court for the district of Ken.
tucky as follows, viz.
CERTiPTCATE. - This cause came on to "beheard on
the statement of facts contained in the record, and' on
the questions on which the opinions of the judges of
the circuit court were opposed, and* @bich were,
therefore, at the request of one of the'parties, adjourn-.
ed to this court, and was argued by counsel.. On
consideration whereof this court doth ordei it.to 'be
certified to the circuit court of the 'nited States for
the district of Kentucky.
1st. That in this 'case the court had not power
over its decree, so as to set the same aside on 'mation after the expiration of the term in which it was
rendered.
.2d. Consequently, such power cannot be exercised
"after the lapse "bffive yeats.
3d. If a joint interest vested iii, Cameron and the
other defendants, the court had no jurisdiction over
the cause. If a distinct intere'st vested in Cameron,
so that substantial Justice (so .far as' he was in-"
VOL. 111. -76

CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'r
1838 terested) could be done without affec'ing the other"
jurisdiction of the eourt might be
Craig defendantsthe
•

exercised as to him alone.
r.
RadforC"

(CHAN CERtY.)

CRAIG

etat. V'.

RADFORD.

ander the Virginia land law, the warrant mnst be lodged ir, tM'e
office of the surveyor at the time %lien th .. survey is made, his curtiffcate, stating that the survey was made by iirtue of the governor'*
warrant, and agreeably to the royal proclamation of 1703, is sufficelei*'
evidence that the warrant was in his posscssson at the time.
The 6th section of the act of Virginia of 174%) entitled, "An ael
directing the duty of surveyors of lands," is merely directory to the
officer, and does not make the validity of the survey doputd upon hi
"It,

conforming to its requisitions.
A survey made by the d..puty survoyor is, in law, to be considered
as made by the principal surveyor.
An alien may take, by purehsse, a freehold estate which cannot be
ofevested on the ground of alienage, but by inquest of office or soma
legislative act eqbivalent thereto.
A defeasible title, tius vested, during the war of the revolution, in P,
British b-rn sqbjeet, u ho has never become a ci.izen, is completely
protectcd and confirmed by the 9th article of the treaty of 1794, between the United States and Gicat Britain.

THIS cause was argued at the last term by Mr.

M/,

D. Hardin, an'd Mr. Talbot, for the appellant, anti by
Mr. B. Hardin, for the respondent.
Mar, 121h.

Mr. Justice' WASHI

GTON

delivered the opinion of

