CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

ctding interest on thtiamount of the appraised valuie
of the said ship Neptune, to be computed' from the dateThe
U. States of the decree of the said. district court,
V.

Palm ez

THE UNITED S9.rATES V. P'ALMER

etal.

A: robbery committed on tile bligh sens, although such rol-bery if committed on land would not by the )au s of the United States be purshhable with death, is pirtrnj, underthe 8th section ofthe act of 1790,
oh.'36, (ix) for the punishment of certain crimnes against the United
States; and the circuit courts havejuri.d&etion thereof
The crime ofrobbern. as nenticnmd in ihe act, is the eritno of robbcry
as recognized and defined at common lair.
The crime ofroLbery committed by a pcrsor'%%ho is not a citizen of
lhe United States, on the high seas, on board a Ehip belonging exr
elusively to, subjects of a foreign state, is not piracy under the act
and is not punishable in the courts of the Unitt d Statte.
When a civil war rages in a foreign nation, one part of which separates itself from theold 'stab'ifl.ed te:v(rn nt, nd crcits it*(.If
into a distinct government, the courts of the Union thust view such
newvly constituted government, as it is viewed by the legi~latiie and
executive departments of the government of the United States:.
If that government remains neutral, but recognizes the existence of a
civil war, the courts of tme Union cannot consider as criminal thoso
acts of hostiity which war authorizes, and uhich tlo new goveror
inent may direct against its enemy.
The same te.timony wh'ich woul] be sufficient to prove that a vessel or
person is in, the service of an acknowlcdaed state, is admitsible to
prove that they are in the service orsuch novhy erected .nvornment.
Its seal cannot be alioc rd to prove it~elfu
lut may be proved lby such
testimony aq the nature of the case admits ; an! thelfact that a vesso! or person is in the service ofsuch g . .rnient may be cstabl;hed
etherwise, ,hould it be impracticable to prove.tile seal.

THis case was certified from the circuit court for the
Massachusetts district

10P THE UNITED STATES

611

1818.
At the 'ircuit court of the United States, for the irst
TOe
and for the
within
Boston,
at
holden
and
begun
tircuit,
Mlassav'husetts district, on Welnesday, the fifteenth day U. States
V.
of October., in the year of our lord one thousand eight Palmer.
hundred and seventeenBefore the honourable Joseph Story, associate jus
lice, and John davis, district judge.
The jurors ofthe United States of America within
and for the district aforesaid, upon their oaths, do
present, that John Palner and Thomas Wilson, both
late of Brston, in the district -aforesaid, marin~rs,
;and Barney Colloghan, late of Newburyport, in the
aforesaid district, mariner, with force and armns
upon the high seas, ,out of the jurisdiction of any particular state, on the fourth day of J.aly now last
past, did piratically and, feloniously set upon, board
break, and enter a certain ship called the Industria
,Raffaelli, then and there being a ship of certain persons (to the jurors aforesaid unknown,) and thenand
there,. piratically and feloniously, did make an assault in and upon certain persons, being mariners,
subjects of the king of Spain, 'vhose names to the jurors aforesaid are unknown,, in the same ship, in the
peace of God, and of the said United States of America, then and there being, and then there piratically
and feloniously did put the aforesaid persons, mari"
nets of the samin ship, in the ship aforesaid then be"
ing, in corporal fear and danger of their lives, then
and there, in the ship aforesaid, upon the high seas
aforesaid, and out of the jurisdiction of any particular state, as aforesaid, and piratically -and feloniously
lid, then and there, steal, take and carry away five

512$
18i

CASES IN THESUPREME COURT
hundrcd boxes of sugar, of the value of twenty thou-

~ sand dollars of lawful manev of the said United States;
The'

U. States sixty pipes cf rum, of the value of six thousand dollars,
'Y.
two hundred demijohns of honey, of the value of one
Palmer. thousand dollars; one thousand bides, of the value of
three thousand dollais; ten hogsheads of coffee, of
the value of two thousand dollars; hnd four bags of
silver and gold, of tire vailue of sixty thousand dollars,
of i like lawful money of the said United States of
America, the goods and chattels of certain persons, (to
the jurors aforesaid unknown,) thern and there, Up_
on the high seas aforesaid, and out of thejurisdiction of ary particular state, being found in the aforesaid ship, in custody and possession of t.he said mariners in the said, ship, from the said mariners ot the
same .ship,.and f.om their custody and possession,
-thbn an-l there, up-n the high seas aforesaid, out of
the jurisdiciion of any particular state, as aforesaid;
against the peaceaa I dig iity of the said United States,
and"the form of the statutes of the United States, in
such case made and provided. And the jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, do farther present, that
the afore.a*-d district of Massachusetts is the district
where tl-e offenders - firescid were first opprehended
for the said offeice.
To which indictment the prisoners pleaded not guilty, and upoti the trial the following question, occurred,
upon which the opinions of the said judges of the circuit court we "eopposed.
Ist. Whether a robbery coirm'tted upon the high
seas, although such robbery, if committed upon land,
wvould not, by the laws of the United States, be pun-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ishable with death, is piracy under the eighth section of
1818.
D.
Tie
the act of congress, p-:ss.d the thirtith of April, A_.
1790 ; and whether the circuit court of the United U. Statei
a.
States hath atuthority to take cognizance of, try, and
pu.nish such ofl'unce?
2". Whether the crime of .robbery, mentioried in the
said eighth section of the act of congress aforesaid, is
the crinme of robbery, as recognized and defined at common law, or is dispunishable until it is defined and expressly punished by s6rne act of congress- other than
the aet of congress above mentioned?
3.1. Whether the crime of robbery, committed by persons -vho are not -itizeas of the United States, on the
high seas, on boar.! of -any ship or vessel, belonging ex
elusively to the sulijrcts of any foreign state or sovereignty, or upon thie person of any suhjvet'of any forein state or sovereigntv, not on board of any ship pr
vessel b-onr.ging to any citizen or citizens of the Tnj.
ted Stawel be a ro'erv or pir;;'cY. within lhetrue intent and meaning of the said 6izhth seefinn of the act
of cngres afores did, and of which the Ci: cuit court of
the United States hath eognizance, to hear,-try, determine, and punish the same ?.
4th. Whether the er.me of robbery committed on
the high seas, by citizens of the united States, on
board of any ship or vessel not belonging to the United States, or to any citizens of the United States,
in whole or in part, but owned by, and exclusively
belonging to- tOe subjects of a foreign slate or sovertign'ty, or (ommittei on the high seas, on the
person of any suhj, ct of any foreign -slate or sovereignty, who is not, at the time, on board of any

614
1818.
The
U. States

V.
Palmer.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
ship or vessel, belonging in whole or part to the United States, or to any citizen thereof, be a robbery or piracy within the said 'eighth section of the acts of congress aforesaid, and of' which the cirtuit court of the
United States biath cognizance to hear, try, and determine, and punish the same ?
5th. Whether any revolted colony, district, or people, which have thrown off their allegiance to their
mother country, but haye never-been acknowledged
by the United States, as a sovereign or indepen'lent
nation or 1-ower,. have authority to issue commissi'on s
to make captures on the high seas of the persons,
property and vesstds of the subjects ot the mother
tountry, who retain their allegiance; and whether
the captures made under such commissions are, as to
the Unite:I States, to be deemed lawful; and whether
the forcilAe. seizure, with violence, and by putting in
fear of th,: persons on board of the vesscls, the property of the subjects of such mother country, who
retain their allegiance, -on tie high seas, in virtue of
such commissions, iz not to be deemed a roobery or piracy within the sai.] e'ghth section of the act of con"gress aforesaid ?
6th. Whether an act, which would be deemed a
robbery on the high seas, if done without a lawful
comc:.ssion, is protected from being considered as a
robbery on the high seas, when the same act is done
under a commission, or the colour of a comaission
from any foreign colony, district, or people, which
have revolted fro:, their native allegiance, and have
declared themselves inddpendent and sovereign, and

OF TI E UNITED STATES.

61.

818.
have assumed tc exercise the powers and authorities
of an independent and soveivign
. 0The"government, but
have never beeh acknowledge. 1, or recognized, as an U. Statbs
V.
independent or sovereign government, or nation, by the Palmer.
United States, or by any other foreign state, prince, or
sovereignty ?
7th. Whether the existence of a-co-mmission to make
captures, where it is set up as a defence to an indictment for piracy, must be proved by the production of'
the original commission, or of a certified c 8 py thereof
from the proper department of the foreign state or
sovereignty by whom it is granted ; or if not, wh&ther
the impossibility of producing either the original
or such certified copy must not be proved before
any inferior and secondary evidence of the existence of such commission is to be allowed, on the trial
of such indictment before any court of the United
States ?'
8th. Whether the seal, purporting to be the seal of a
fpreign state or sovereignty, and' annexed to any such
commission or a ce;tified eopy thereof, is to be admitted'
in a court of the United States as proving itself, with out any other proof of its ge-iiieness, sn as to establish
the legal existence of such commissionfrom such foreign
state or sovereignty?
9th. Whether a seal, annexed to any such commission, purporting to be the public seal used by'the
persons exercising the powers of governmient in any
foreign colony, district, or people, which have revolted from their native allegia.ce, and have declared
themselves independent and sovereign, and actually
exercise the powers of an indepe-ndent government

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
T
The

or nation, but.have never bee-i ack-iouledged as such
independent government or n:ttion by the United
U. States States, is admissible in a court of the United States
V.
.as proof of the legal existence of such ccminission,
with or without farther proof of the genuineness of such
seal ?
10th. Whether Lay colony, district, or people, who
have revolted from thir native allegiance, and have
assumed upon themselves the exercise of independent
and soverejrn power, can be deerye.l, in any court of
the United State., an independent or sovervign nation,
or government, until they have been at knowle'dged
as such -by the government of the United Sttes;
and whether stuch acknowledgement can he proved in
a court of the United States, otherwise than by some
act, or statute, or resolution, of the congress of the
United States, or by some public proclamation, or
other public act of the executive authority of the
United State,, directly containing or announcing such
acknowledgement, or by publicly receiving and acknowledging an am')assador, or other public ministerfrom such colony, district,- or' people ; and whether
such acknowledgement can be proved by mere inference
from the. private racts or priva'c instructions of the exe.
c'utive of the United States, %%hen no public acknowledgement'has ever been made ; and whether the courts
of the United States are boun.! jp:Iicially to take notiec
of the existing relations of the Unite.l. States, as to
foreign states and sovereignties, their colo:ies, and
dependencies ?
11th. Whether in case of a civil war between a
mother country ant its colony, the subjects of the different parties arc to be deemed, in respect to neutral

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
nations as enemies to each other, entitled to the
rights of war ; and that captures made of each other's
Tlhe
ships and other property on the high seas are to be U. States
V.
considered, in respect to neutral nations as rightful, Palmer.
so that courts of law of neutral natiohs are not authorized to deem such acts as piracy .
And the said judges, being so opposed in opinion
upon the questions aforesaid, the same were then and
there, at the repuest of thd district attorney for the
United States, stated, under the direction of the judges
and ordered by the court to be certified under the- seal
of the court to the supreme court, at their fiext session
to be held thereafter, to be finally decided by said supreme court ; and the court being farther of opinion,
-that farther proceedings could not be had in said
cause without prejudice to the merits of the same
cause, did order, that the injury impannellel as aforesaid to try said cause, be discharged from giving any
verdict therein.
Mr. Blake for the United States, argued 1. That March 18th.
a robbery committed on the high seas, is piracy, under the 8th section of the act of 1790, ch. 36. "for the
punishment of certain crimes against the United
States," although no law of the United States be sub ;
sisting for the punishment of the anme'offence if committed on land ; and that such piracy is cognizable in
the circuit court. The words of the statute are, That
if any person or perso'ns shall commit, upon the high
seas," &c. "murder or robbery, or any other offence,
which if committed within the bidy of a county,
,would by the law of the United States, be punisha79
VOL. IIT.

618
1818.
'
The
U. States
V.
Palmer.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
ble with death ;" &c. "every s.clh offerdor shall be
deemed, taken, and adjudged to be a pirate and felon,
&cand being thereof convicte 1, shall suffer death,"
to
back
relate
not
The relative pronoun '"which" does
the first specified ofrence' of "'murder or robbery"' but
refers only to its immediate antecedent, "any other
offence." It is this last class of c,imes only that
must be punishable, by the laws of the United States,
with death, if committed within the body of a coun'ty, in order to constitute them piracies, when committed on ihe high seas. It'is a misfaken principle
commonly applied to Fenal stalutes, that they are to
be construed strictly. Sir William Jones has lai I
down the true rule, that criminal laws are to be construed liberally as to the offence, and strictly as to the
A strong i'lustration of the good sense of
offender.a
this rule, is to be found in the construction which has
been given in -England to.the Stabbing Act.b A contrary construction of the statute now under consideration, would render it wholl) inoperative, until there
shall be a law of the United States, for the punishme nt of ro'bbery crinmitted in the body of a 'county ;
which will never happen, as the United States have
no constitutivral autlhority to punish a robbery committed within the body of a cou'ty. Forts, arsenals,
dockyards, &c. "under the sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the United States," cannot be said to be
,within the body of a county. It may be admitted
that there is some degree of loosness in the phraseo*
aLife of Sir W. Jones, p. 268.
hi Fosor's Tromn L w= -97.

o0 THE UNITED STATES.

619

logy of this section, which was evidently copied from 1i1 .
the British statute of the 3L) Geo. I1. ch. 37. reTre
lative to the same sub.ect, withouit regarding the dif- U. States
V.
ference between the constitutions of the two counPalmer.
tries. On the constructior, of the British statute, it
would be perfectly immaterial whether the pronoun
"twichl"was carried hack to the words ';murder and
robbery,"! or whether it was confined to its immediate antecedent; because, in England, murder and
robbery are punishable with death, when'committed
in the body of a county, undler the same laws which
constitute them piracies when committed on the
high seas. But such a construction of our statute
would render it wholly inoperative as to the great offences of murder and robbery, which are not, and cannot be made punishable under the laws of the United
States, when committe I within the body of a countys
Nor can it be objecte:l, that by the construction now
contended for, the -words "any other offence" would
be equally inoperative ; because there are various offences which would still be reached by the statute, such
as treason, &c. for the pumishment of which Congress
ra%,y provide, though committed v;thin the body of a
county. It follows as a corollary, 'hat the circuit
court.has cognizance of these offences ; for, by the judiciary act of 17S9, ch. 20. s 11. it has cognizance of
all crimes and offences cognizable under the authority
of the United Shies.' -2. The crime of robbery mentioned in the Sth se&ion of the act of 1790, is the
crime of robbery as understool at commo n law. A
piracy or felony on the high seas is sufficiently defia"ed, by terming it a robbery committed on the high seas-

520
1818.
'
Tl.e
U. States
v.
Palmer.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
The import of the term "robbery," must be sought in
the common law, in the same manner as the imrecous,
port of the terms murder, manslaughter,
in
uased
benefit of'clergy, and many others that aie
the
If
States.-3.
United
the criminal code of the
robbery in question amount to piracy, by the law of
nations,, the words "any person, or persons," in the
8th section, will embrace the subjects of all nations,
who may commit that offence on the high seas, wheto
ther on board a foreign vessel, or a vessel belonging
is
which
felony,
citizen- of the United States. A
not
was
made a piracy by municipal statutes, and
such by the law of nations, cannot be tried by the
courts of the United States, if comomitted by a foreigner on board a foreign vessel, on tne high seas; because the jurisdiction of the United States, beyond
their own territorial limits, only extends to the punishment of crimes which are piracy by the law of nations. But it is the right and the duty of the
United States, as.a member of the community of nations, to punish offences committed on the high seas
con-.against the law of nations."* By this statute,
conalso
is
which
power,
gress have exercised this
of
offence
The
ferred on, them by the constitution.
naof
piracy, which is imperfectly defined by the law
tions, is dechred to be murder or iobbery committed
on the high seas, or in any river, &c.. out of the
punishjurisdiction of any particular state ; and is made
able with death. Congress cannot be presumed to
have neglected so important a duty as that of defining and punishing the offepce of genera1 piracy,
a 4 BL. Con. 71.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

621

Without this itatute, there can be found no definition
1818.
and punishment of it; because the law of nations
merely creates the offence, and the common law and U.The
States
statute 28 Henry VII I. ch. 15. may perhaps not be
V.
considered as in force in the United States.--4. The Palmer.
crime of robbery committed by a citizen of the
United States on the high seas, on board a foreign
vessel, or on the person of a foreigner, must be considered as a piracy, under the Sth section of the act;
because the jurisdiction of a nation extends to its citizens, wheresoever they maybe, except within the territory of a foreign sovereign.a The jurisdiction of a nation over its public ships is exclusive every where; but
it is not exclusive over merchant vessels belonging to
its subjects. It is there concurrent with the personal
jurisdiction of other nations over their citizens. Consequently the personal jurisdiction of the United States
over their citizens extends to offences committed by
them on board of foreign merchant vessel on the high
seas.--.5. The general principle applied by the writers
on the law of nations to the case of a civil war, considers the war, (as batween the conflicting parties,) as just
on both sides, and that each is to treat the other as a
public enemy, according to the established usages of
-ar-b So, also, it is the duty of other nations to re.
main neutral, and not to interfere with the exercise of
'omplete belligerent rights by both parties within the
erritory which is the scene of their hostilities. But
a 2 Ridherfords's Inst. 180.

b Vattud, L: 3 ch. 18. s. 296.

Vatlc, L. 2 ch. 6.

122

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

this does not im'ply a right on their part to push tiieir
wars on to the cean, and to annoy the rest of the
The
U. States world on this common highway of nations. The genV.
erality of the expressions u-ed by Vattal on this subject may, indeed, seem to import such a right. But it
should be remiembered that, with all his merit, he is
very deficient in precisiot., and on this question pe
culiarly unsatisfactory. The maritime rights of a belligerent power must be perfect, or they cannot exist at
all. They must, -therefore, include the right, of visitation and search, and of detaining for adjudication;
and of punishing a resistance to the exercise of these
rights by the appropriate penalty of confiscationSo that neutral nations may come to be affected in
their most valuable interests by a mere domestic
quarrel, which never ought to have been extended
beyond the territory of the people where it originated. This renders it indispensable to inquire how
far neutral nations are bound to submit to the exercise of these high prerogative; of sovereignty in a
civil" war, under colour of a commission from one of
the belligerent parties, whose independence has not
been acknowledged by any power. The right of an
insurgent people to be treated by the parent state,
against which it revolts, with all the humanity and
moderation which are required in any other war, and
the duty of neutral nations to abstain from ;nterfering in the contest, are not denied. But the right
of the new people to thrust themselves into the family
of nations, and to make the ocean the theatre of their
predatory,-hostilities, without the consent of other nations, is denied. Such a right ran only be founded
18S.

6V

OF THE UNITrED STATES.
upon a perfect title to sovereignty, which cannot exist in a case where the very object.of the war :s to
overeign,
decide whether the claim of the former
This title
or of the revolted people shall prevail.
cannot be taken notice of by the courts of justice until,
it has been recognized by- the government of the
country under whose -iuthority they sit.a-6. If,
then, a revolteJ[ colony or people, whose independence has not been recognized b -the government of the United States, have no authority to issue
a commission to malke captures on the high seas,
which can be considered as valid in the courts of the
United States, a capture un-ler such a commission is,
in no respect, distinguishable from a capture without
any commission. A privateer, cruizing under two
commissions from different sovereigns {s a pirate.b In
the case of the famous pirate lfyddc the indictment
was for general piracy. He had two commissions, one
against the French, the other against certAin pirates,
which he produced. in his justification. But Lord
Chidf Baron Ward sai 1, "If he bad acte I pursuant
to his commis-4on, he ought to have condemnea Ship
and goods, if they wew French ; but by his pot candemning, he seems to show his aim, mind, and im.
tention, and that he did not act in that case by virtue
of his commission, but quite contrary to it. Whilst
a Rose v. Himnely, 4 C,'anch, e92. Gelston v. Hoyt, antd
p. .24.
b e Sir L. Jenycins' Lfe, 71.1. , Ord. de la 1M1ar. L s. t.9.
art. S. Vartenh on Privateers,44;
e 5 State Trials, 314.

1818.
The
V.
a1mer.

S24

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

men pursue their commissions, they must be justified ;
but when "the) do things not authorized, or never
Tile
U. State, intended by them, it is as if they had no commission."
This principle, that :bhere the criminal intention is
V.
Palmer. apparent, the quality of the act will not be changed by
188
'

its havin'g been committed under colour of legal authority, is illustrated by all the analogies of criminal
law.a-7. The established rules of evidence ought not
to be dispensed with in the proof of an authority to
capture, where that authority is set up as a defence
All civilizad nations
to an inlictment for piracy.
which the commisin
offices,
and
have departments
; the' oriregistered
are
sions issued to their cruizers
ginal is borne about with him by the cruizer as his
authority to search, to detain, and to capture ; a copy
of it may always be readily obtained by application
at the proper office. The impossibility of producing
the original, or an examined copy of such a commission, is, therefore, an inadmissible supposition. The
rule of evidence which requires that it should be produced is inflexible, and is founded upon the reasonable suspicion, excited by a resort to inferior testimony,
that there must be some fatat defect in the original
documents.- 8 . There can be no doubt that the seal
of a recognized foreign state' or sovereignty; is to be
admitted as proving itself, without other proof of its
genuineness. But the seal of a new people, or state,
is not sufficiently notorious to prove itself, and to give
credit to it would be to recognize the sovereign from
whom it emanates, which courts of justice are not
a 2 East's Crown Law, 660. Forster, 135, 154. 312.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
9. The ninth question certified
competent to do.
from the court below has been already answered. '
The
10. The first branch of the tenth question has been U. States
v.
before answered by this court in the cases already. Palmer.
The second branch of this question. pre-sup-.
cited.a
poses that no distinct acknowledgment of the new
state has been made by the United States, since it
excludes from consideration any public act of recognition by the legislative and executivt departments,
and confines itsfelf to the mere private .cts and in.
structions of the executive. On a subject of such im.
portance as a change in the foreign relations of the
country, nothing but the most explicit, public, and
notoribus acts of the government should be noticed
by courts of justice. Nothing should be left to inference and conjecture ; because, such a 'cotirse might
lead to a usurpation by the courts of the high prerogative of making war and peace, and the whole nation
would become responsible to other nstions for the
error of judgment in a department -%4th which it had
not entrusted the care of its foreign affairs. .111 the
infinite variety and complication of these affairs, the
language and conduct of the executive may. be, misunderstood ; and, therefore, nothing short of an act
of the whole legislature, a' treaty, a proclamation of
the president, or the public reception of an ambassador from the new state, oughf to be considered as a
11. The eleventh
recognition of its, independence.
a Rose v. Himely, 4 Cranch, E-92.
p. 324.
so
VOL. IlL

GeLton v. Hoyt, ante,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

696
1818.

question is involved in the discussion of the proeed-

The V
U. States

og.
No counsel appeared to argue the cause for the pris-

Y.

oners.

Palmer.

March t4th.

Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion
of the court. In this case, a series of questions has
been proposed by the circuit court of the United States,
for the district of Massachusetts, on which the judges
of that court were divided in opinion. The questions
occurred on the trial of John Palmer, Thomas Wilson,
and Barney Calloghan, who were indicted for piracy
committed on the high seas.
The first four questions, relate to the construction of
the 8th section of the "act for the punishment of cer-'
tain crimes against the United States."
The remaining seven questions, respect the rights of
a colony or other portion of an established empire,
which has proclaimed itself an independent nation, and
is as.3erting and maintaining its claim to independence

Atobb

by arms.

initted on
thgh sac

lh of the act on which these prison-*
The 8th setion
"And be it
ters were. indicted is in these words

that if any person or persons shall com-e
upon the high seas, or in any river, haven,
land,woutdnotmit,
oft
by the laws
partithe U. S. bebason, or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any
robbete

ifeeacted,

wihdat, is cular state, murier or robberv,-or any other.offence,

underwhich, if committed within
piray,
8tM , O79

body of.
the
I~u -

a county I

ch. 3U.,s. 8.; would, by the laws of the Unite:i States, be punisha.
and the circuit
ju'risdiction.
eourt have ble with death ; or if any captain or mariner 'of any
t jriof .
ship or other vessel, shall piratically and feloniously
run away. with. such ship or vebsel, or any goods or

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ItII.
raerchitndize, to the value of fifty dollars or yield
The.
up such ship or ves:,el voluntarily to any pirate ; or
if any seaman shall lay -violent hands upon his zom- U. States
V.
mn~uder, thereby to hinder and prevent his fighting in
Palmer.
trust,
to'his
committed
defence of his ship, or gon.Is
or shall-make a revolt i. the ship; every such offend
er shall be deemed, taken, and adjudged to be a pirate and felon, and being thereof convicted, shall suffer death ; an-' the trial of, crimes committed on the
high seas, or in any p!ace out of the jurisdiction of
any particular state, shall be in the district where the
offender is apprehended, or into which he may first be
brought."
Robbery committed on land, not 'being punishable
by the laws of the United States with death, it is
doubte I whether it is made piracy by this act, when
committed on the high seas. The argument is urderstood to be, that congress did not intend to make
that'a caliital offe tce on the high seas, which is not
a capital offence on land. That onl' such murder,
and such rob'cry, and such other offence as, if
ommitted within the body of a county. would, by
the laws of the United States, be punishable with
death, is made picacy. That the word "other" is
without use or meaning, if this conotruclion be rejected. That it so connects murder dand robbery with'
the following member of the sentence, as to limit the
words murder and robbery to that description of
those offences which might be made punishable with
death, if committed on land. That in consequence
of this word, the relative "which" has fat its antecedent the whole preceding part of the sentence,
and not the words "other offences." That section

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
consists of three distinct classes of piracy. The first
of offences which if committed within the body of a
The
The se"
U. States couTaty, wpuld be punishable with death.
conci and third, of particular offences which are enuV.
Palmer. merated.
1818.

'

This argument is entitled to great respct on every
account ; and to the more, because, in expounding
a law which inflicts capital punishment, no over ,rigid
construction ought to be admitted. But the court
.cannot assent to its correctness.
The le.r:slature having specified murder and robbery particularly, are understood to indicate Alearly
the intention that those offences shall amount to piracy; there could be no other moti~e for specifying
them. The subsequent words do not appear to be
emplove.I for the purpose of limiting piratical murder
and robbery, to that desci.ption of those offences
which is punishable with death, if committed on land,
but for the purpose of adding other offences, should
there be any, which were not particularly recited, and
,which were rendered capital by the laws of the Uni"tel States, if committed -%ithin the body of a county.
Had he intention of congress been to render the
crime of piracy dependent on the punishment affixed
to the same offence, if committed on land, this intention must have been expressed in very different terms
from those which have been selected. Instead of
enumerating murder and robbery as crimes which
should constitute piracy, and then proceeding to use
a general term, c,,mprehending other offences, the
language of the legislature would have been, that
"any offence" committed on the high seas, which, if

OF THE UNITED STATES.

62

1818.
committed in the boly of a county, would be punisha.
The
ble with death, should amount to piracy.
The particular crimes enumerated were undoubtedly U. States
v.
first in the mind of congress. No other motive for the Palmer
Yet on the construction
assigned.
be
can
enumeration
contended for, robbery on the high seas would escape
unpunished. It is not pretendeJ that the words of the
legislature ought to be strained beyond their natural
meaning, for the purpose of embracirig a crime which
would otherwise escape with impunity ; b'ut when the
words of a statute, in their" most obvious sense,
comprehend an offence, which offence is apparently
,placed by the legislature in the highest cltss of crimes,
'it ftirnishes an additional motive for rejecting a construetion, narrowing the plain meaning of the words,
that such construction would leave the crime entirely
,unpunished.
The correctness of this exposition of the 8th section
is confirmed by those which fDllow.
The 9th punishes those ritizens of the United States
who co'nnit the od.1ce3 described in the 8th,
under colour of a commission or authority derived from
a foreign state. Here robbery is again particularly
-specified.
The 10th section extends the punishment of death
to accessories before the fact. They are described
to be those who aid, assist, advise, &c. &c any person to "commit any murder, robber.y, or cther piracy
be connected
aforesaid." If the word "aforesaid"
with "murder" and -"robbery," as well as with
"other piracy," yet it seems difficult to resist the

CASES LN THE SUPREME COURT

600
1818
The
U. States
v.
Palmer.

conviction that the legislature considered murder and
robbery as acts of piracy.
The 11th section punishes acccessories after the
fact. They are those who, "after any murder, felony, robbery, or other piracy whatsoever, aforesaid"

shall have been committed, shall furnish aid- to those
by whom the crime has been perpetrated. Can it be
doubted, that the legislature considered murder, felony, and robbery, committed n the high seas, as'piracies?
If it be answered, that although this opinion was
-- tertained, yet, if the legislature was mistaken, those
whose duty it is to construe the law, must not yield to'
that mistake ; we say, that when the legislature manifests this clear understanding of its own intention, which
The crime ofintention consists with its words, courts are bound by
robbery, as .
mentioned inIt.
thactof1790
Of the meaning of the term
crime recnz
ofrobbe 5tatute, we think no doubt can
ryas

robbery, as used in the
be entertained. It must

ed
and deAned be understood in the sense in which it is recognized and
atommon

law.

defined at common law.
The question, whether this act extend4 farther than
t to American citizens, or to persons on board Ameri-

The crime of

' robbcry coni

mestted

b1

hotacitizen of can vessels,
the U .,Staes,

or
.. to

offences committed
•

.
•
* against

citon tfie high zens of the United States, is not without its difficulseas, on board
of a ship beties. The constitution having conferred on congress
longing excluthe power of defining and punishing piracy, there
... e r
p u is i n
e in n
ri
e y to su b
jects of a

focan be no

reign state, is

doubt of the right
of the
.

legislature

not piracy unto enact laws punishing
pirates, although they may
I notpunishbe foreigners, and may have committed no 'particular offence against the United States. The only
colntof
United States.

OF THE UNITED STATES

bul

t.
question is, has the legislature enacted such a law?
The
unthe
Do the words of the act authorize the courts of
ion. to inflict its penalies on persons -wh are not citi- U. States
V.
under their flag.
zens of the United States, nor sailing
them?
against
nor offending particularly
The words of the section are in terms of unlimited
extent. The words "any person or persons," are
broad enough to comprehend every human being.
But general Words must not only be limited to cases
within the jurisdictionof the-stale) but also to those
objects to which the legislature intended to applr them.
Did the legislature intend to apply these words to
the subjects of a foreign p9wer, who in a.foreign
ship may commit murder or robbery on the high

seas ?
The title of an act cannot control its words, but may
furnish some aid in showing what was in the mind of
the legislature. The title of this act is, "an act for
the punishment of certain crimes against the United
States." It would seem that offences against the United States, not offences against ihe human race, were
the crimes which the legislature intended by this law
to punish.The act proceeds upon this idea, and uses general
terms in this limited sense. In describing those who,
may commit misprision of treason or felony, the words

used are "any petson or persons ;" yet these words are
necessarily confineJl to any person or persons owing
permament or temporary allegiance to the United
States.
The 8th section also commences with the words
icany person or persous."1 , But these words must be

CASES tN THE SUPREME COURT
limited in some aegree, and the'intent of the legislature
-will determine the extent of this limitation. For this inThe
U. States tent we must examine the law. The succeeding member of the sentence commences with the words, "cif
v
Palmer. any captain or marinei" of an. ship or other vessel,.
shall piratically rutni way with such shipr or vessel, or
any goods or merehandize, to the value of fifty dollars,
or yield up such ship or vessel voluntarily to any pi1818.

'

rate."
The words "any captain, or'Wartner of any ship
or other vessel," *eomprehend all captains and mariners, as entirely as the words "any person or persons,"
comprehend the whole human race. Yet it would be
difficult to believe that the legislature intended to
punish the captain or mariner of a foreign ship,
wio should fun away with such ship, and dispose
of her in a foreign port, or who should steal any
goods from such ship to the value of fifty dollars,,
or who should deliver her up to a pirate when he.
might have defended her, or even according to previous arrangement. The third member ,of. the sentencealso begins with the general words "any sea"
man. But it cannot be supposed that the legislature intended to punish a seaman on board ,a ship sailing under a foreign flag, under the jurisdiction of a
foreign government, who shokiLll lay violent hands up.
on his commander,,or make a revolt in the ship. These
are offences against the nation under whose Ig the
vessel sails, and within whose particular jurisdiction
all on board the vessel are. Every, nation provides
for such offlences the punishment its own policy may
dictate; and no general *nrds of a statute ought to,

OF THE UNITED STATES. .
be construed to emhbrace them when ,.ommitted by for-, 1818.
The
eigners against a foreign government.
U.
States
of
members
latter
two
That the general words'of the
Y.
committed
offences
to
restricted
this sentence are to be
Palmer.
on board the' vessels of the United States, furnishes
strong reason for believing that the legislature intended
to impose the same restriction on the general "words
used in the firAt member of the sentence.
This construction derives aid from the 10th section
of the act., That sedtion ueclares, that "any person "
who shall " knowingly and wittingly aid and assist, procure, command) counsel, or advise, any person or persons, to do or commit any murder or robbery, &c.11 shall
be an accessory before the fact, and, on conviction,
shall suffer death.
It will scarcely be denied that the words "any person," when applied to aiding or advising a tact, are
as extensive as the same words when applied to the
commission of that fact. Can it e' believed that
the legislature intended to punish with death the
subject of a foreign prince, who, within the dominions of that prince, should advise a person, about to
sail in the ship of his sovereign, to commit murder
or robbery ? If the advi'ce -is not a 'crime within the
law, neither is the fact advised a crime within the
law.
The opinioti formed by the court on this subject
might be still farther illustrated by animadversions on
other sections of the act. But it would be tedious, and
is thought unnecessary.
The court is of opinion that the crime Qf robbery,
committed by a person on the high seas, on board of
81
VOL. III.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1318.

Tihe
T
U. States
,.
Palmer.

any ship or vessel belonging exclusively to subjecfs
of a foreign state, on persons within a vessel belonging exclusively to subjects of a foreign, state, is not a
piracy within the true intent and meaning of the act for
the punishment of certain crimes against the UJnited

States.
This opinion will probably decide the case to which
it is intended to apply.
D
When a cil
Those questions which respect the righih of a part of
war ragesin a a foreign empire, which as.erts,"and is contending for
foreign nal ionM
one part ifits independence, and the c6nd'iet whikh must be observthe subjects of
rateite-lomr ed by the courts of the union towards
the old esa- such section of an empire who may be brought before
goblished
vtrnment, and the tribunals of this country, are equally delicate and
itself
erects
into 2. distinct difficult.
governAen

the. curts
nie,,,
thewmn,
vtjew-stuhmust

it is understood that the construction which

As
has been given to the act of congress, will render a

constituted particular answer to them unntcessary, the court will
1Y
goyernment as
are generally rather
by only observe, that such questions
itisviewed
T eb ln
. tr
. .
. .
thb"legislative ..
They belong
and executive political than lecgal in their character. what
the law
properly to tose who can declare
departmentsof-more
mo
governthe
ment othe U-,shall be ; who can place the nation in such a 'position
with respect to foreign powers'as to their own judgment sb ll appear wise ; to w~hom are entrusted all its
foreign relations ; than to that tibunal whose power
as well as duty is confined to the application of the
rule which the legislature may prescribe for it. In
such contesis a nation may engage itself with the one
party or the other---may observe absolute neutralitymay recognize the new state absolutely-or may make
a limited recognition of it. The proceeding. in courts
mu.t depend'so entirely on the course. of the govern-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18 it.
maent, that it is difficult to give a precise answer to
T
questions which do not refer to 6"particular nation.Tihe
It may be said, generally, that if the government re- U. SItes
Y.
mains neutral, an.! re'ognizes the existence of a civil
war, its courts cannot consider as criminal those acts Palmer.
of hostility which war authorizes, and uthich the new
government may direct against its enemy. To decide
otherwise,would be to determine that the wa'r proseatted by one of the parties was unlawful, and would be
to arrange the nation to which the court" belongs
against that party. This would transcend the lirmits
Thesame tesprescribed to the judicial department.
It follows as a consequence, from this -*:ew of the timony *which
Iould
be suffleientatovessel
prove
subject that persons or vessels employe, -:. the service thit
or
of a self declared government, thus acknowledged to

* cs or
t serva is in aie

be maintaining its separate existence by war, must tee"....
0
ackilwVledged&
is a dnl s permitted to prove the fact of their being oactually em-stf
ploye

w
sible to prove
in such sprvice, by the same testiihony whichthattheynrein
the service of

would be sufficient to prove that such vessel or per- aednewlycrestgov ' n t
e
son was employed in the service of an acknowledged state. The seal of such acknowledged government cannot be permitted to prove itself; but
it may be prove'l by some testimony as the nature of
the case admits ; and the fact"that such vessel or person is employed may be proved without. proving the
seal.
Mr..Justice JoHNsox. The first of these questions
arises on the oonstruti'on of the first division of the
8th section of the act for the punishment of certain
crimes.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
That act comprises two classes of cases, the second of which may again bc subdivided into two diThe
,U. States visions. In the -second class of cases, each crime is
specifically described in the ordinary mode of defining
V.
Yalmer.crimes, and so far the constitutional power of defining
and punishing piracies and felonies 'nptlie high seas,
is strictly complied with. But, with regard to the
first class bf cases, the legislature refers for a definition to other sources-to information not to be found
in that seclion itself. The words are thes- : "If any
persons shall commit, upon the high seas, &c. mur.
der or robbery, or any other offence, which, if committed in the body of a county, would, by the laws
of the United States, be punishable with death, &c.
such person shall, upon conviction thereof, suffer
death." Thus referring to -the common law definition of murder and robbery alone, or to the common
law definition of murder and robbery with the superadded statutory requisite of being made punishable with
death, if committed on land, in order to define the
.6ffence which, under that section, is made capitally
punishable.
The crime of robbery is the offence charged in this
indictment, and the question is, whether it must not
,be shown that it must have been inade punishable with
.death, if committed on land, in order to subject the offender to that punishment, if comniitted on the high
seas. Aind singular as it may appear, it really is the
,fact in this case,, that these mens' lives may depend
upon a comma more or less, or upon the question
whether a relative, which may take'in three antecedents just as wpll a one, shall4e confined to one
818.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

W

1818.
alone. Upon such a question I here solemny deTh7
clare, that I never will consent to take the life of
States
U.
any man in obedience to any court ; and 'if ever forc
ed to choose between obeying this court, on such a
point, or resigning my commission, I would not hesitate adopting the latter alternative.
But to my mind it is obvious, that both* the intent
of the legislature, and the construction of the words,
are in favour of the prisoners. This, however, is more
than I need contend for,'since a doubt relative to that
construction or intent ought to be as effectual in their
favour, as the most thorough convicti6n.
When the intent of the legislature is looked into, it
is as obvious as the light, and requires as little reasoning to prove its existence, that the object proposed was
with regard to crimes which may be committed either
-on the sea or land, to produce an uniformity in the
punishment, so that where death was inflicted in the
one casd, it should be inflicted in another. And congress certainly legislated under the idea, that the pun.
ishment of death had been previously enacted for the
crime of robbery on laic!, as it had in fact been. for
murder, and some other crimes. And in my opinioni
this intent ought to govern the grammatical construction, and make the relative to refer to all three of
the antecedents, murder, robbery, and other crihw, instead of being confined to the last alone. That it may,
be so applied consistently with grammatidal correct.
ness, no one can deny; and if so, in favorein vita,
we are, in my opinion, legally bound to give it
Again ; there is no reasoh to
that construction.
think that the word other is. altogether a supernumerary

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.
8II.

member of the sentence.

To give the construction con-

tended for'in behalf of the United States, 1hat word

The
U. States must be rendered usetess and inoperative; the sentence has the same meaning with or without it. But
-v.
Palmer. ifwe retain it, and substitute its definition, or examine
its effect upon the meaning of the terms associated with
it, we then have the following results : other is commonly defined to mean not the samc, or (what is certainly
With this
synonymous,)' not before mentioned.
or
Imurder,
thus:
expression, the sentence would read
for
robbery, or any offence not before mentioned,"
,which the punishment of death is lty l-w inflicted.
And as the use of the commi is exceedirgly arbitrary
and indefiite, by expunging all t'e eommos from the
sentence the meaning becomes still more obvious. Or,
if instead of subst iutingthe words not before mentioned,
we introd,uce the single term unnumcrated, in the sense
of which the term other is unquestionably u.ed by the
legislature, the conclusion becomes irresistible in favour
oftthe prisoners. There is another view ofthizsubjeet that leadf to the same conclusion ; by supplying
an obvious elision, the same meaning is g4iven to this
section. The word other is responde'l to by than, and
the repetition of the excluded words is understood.
Thus, in the case' before us, by supplying the elision,
we "make murder, robbeiy, or any crime other than
imrder or robbery,", made punishable, &c. the signification ofwuich words, had they been used, would have
left no doubt.
There are several ineonsistences ,rowinc, out of a
construction unfavourable to the prisoners, which

OF THE UNITED STATES

63.

1818.
merit the most serious consideration. The first is,
T
the most sanguinary character that it gives to this law
The
0
in its op,-ration ; for it is literally true, that under it a U. States
.
-P
whole ship's crew may be consigned to the gallows,
for robbing a vessel of a single chicken, even although
a robbery committed on land for tlousands, may not
have been made punishable beyond whipping or confinement. If natural reason is not to be consulted on
this point, at least the mild and benignant spirit of
the laws of the United States merits attention. With
regard to the mail this iiconsistency actually. may occur under existing laws, should the mail ever again
be ctrried by water, as it has. been formerly. This
cannot be consistent with the intention of the legislature.
But, it is contended, if congress had not intended
to malce nurder and robbery punishable with. death,
independently of the circumstance of those offences
being so made lunishiable when committed on land,
they would have omilted those s.ecified crimes altogether from this section, and ha'-e erracted generally, that all crimes made puni~Aable with death on
land should be pnishable with death if committed on
the seas, without enune.rating murder and robbery.This is fair reasoning; and in any case but one of life
an(I death, it mgAt hive some weigat. But in no case
very great wcig'i; b.caau;e, in Ihat respect, a legislature
is su'~ject to no laws in the selection or the course to be
the obvious fact is, that they
pursued. In t.mk cia,
and fearing some omission
enumerating,
commenced
by law, to death,.these
subject
of crimes then supposed

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
181L . general decriptive words are resorted to. But every
crime that this division of the section comprises
The
U. States was punishable with death, both these which precede
robbery in the enumeration, and those %%hich c ome afX,
Palmer. ter. Robbery, except in case of the mail, stands alone;
and, no doubt, was introduced under the idea, that that
also had the same punishment attached to it. If it had
not, in fact, then it was the case on which the legislature intended to act; and according to my views of the
grammatical or philological construction of the sentence, it is one on which they have not acted. This
construction derives considerable force, also from the
consi leratiorr that this act is fiamed on the modlel of
tie British statute, which avowedly "had'this uniformity for its object.
The second quest*ion proposed in this case is one on
which, Ipresume, there can be nodoubt. For the definition of robbery under this act we must look for the
definition of the term in the commo, law, or we will
find it no where; and, according to my construction.
superadd to tbit definition the circumstance of its being made punishable 'with death, under the laws of
the United States, if commitied on land, and you have
described the offence made punishable under this
Sother

section.
There are eleven questions certified from the circuit
conrt of Massachusetts; but of those eleven, these
two only appear to me to arise cut of the case. 'The
transcript contains nothing but the indictment and
impannelling of the jury. No motion; no evidence;
no demurrer ore ten=, or case stated, appears upon the
transcript, on which the remaining questions could

OF THE UNITED STATES.
I.Sa&
arise. On the indictment the two first questions might
as
of
themselves,
the
court
raised
by
have
been
well
counsel for the prisoners ; but as far as appears to this U. The
States
v.
court, all the other questions might as well have been
raised in any other case. I here enter my protest Palnier.
ag.inst having these general questions adjourned to
this court. We are constituted to decide causes, and not
to discuss themes,. or digest systems. It is true, the
words of the act, respecting division of opinion in the
circuit court, are general ; but indkpendently of the consideration that it was not to be-expected that the court
could be divided, unless upon questions arising out of
some cause depending, the words in the first proviso,
" that the cause may be pfoceeded in,' 5 plainly show
that the questions contemplated in the act are questions
arising in a cause depending; and if so, it ought to be
shown that they do arise in fhe cause, and are not
merely hypothetical. In the case of Martin v. Huntera
this court expressly acted upon this principle, when it
went into a consideration of the questidn, whether any
estate existed in the plaintiff in error, before it would
consider the question on the coqtruction of the treaty,
as applicable to that estate.
If, however, it becomes necessary to consider the
other questions in this case, I will lay down a few gene ral principles, whibh, I believe, will answer all : I. Con
gress can inflict punishment on offences committed&Qb
board the vessels of the United States, or by citizens nf
the United States, any where ; but congress cannot
make that piracy which is not piracy by the law of haa 7 Cranch, 603.
VoL.. III.

Ante, vol. 1, p. 304.
82

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

tions, in order to give jurisdiction to its own courts over
such offences.

The

2. When open war exists between a nation and its
subjects, the subjects of the revolted country are no
v.
Palmer. more liable to be punished as pirates, than the subjects

U. States

,who adhere to their allegiance; and Whatever immunity
the law of nations gives to the ship, it extends to all
who serve on board of her, excepting olly the responsibility of individuals to the laws of their respective
countries.
3. The proof of a commission is not necessary to
exempt an individual serving on board a ship engaged
in the war, because any shilpif a belligerent may capture
an enemy ; and whether acting under a commission or
not, is an immaterial question as to third persons: he
must answer that to his own government. Ttis only
necessary to prove two"facts.: 1st. The existence oi
open war: 2dly. That the vessel is really documented,
owne:i, and commanded as a belligerent vessel, and not
affectedly so for piratical purposes.
4. For pro ad of property and documents, it is not to
be expected thit any'better evidence can be produced
than the seal of the revoltedtountry, with such reasonable evidence as the case may admit of, to prove it
to be known as such; and a seal once proved, or admittq to a court, ought afterwards to be acknowledged by
t!le court officially, at least, as 1gainst the party who
has once acknowledged it.
CERTJF1'1CAT.-This cause came on to be heard
on the transcript of the record of the circuit court of
-the United States, for the district of Massachusetts,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Zn on the questions on which the judges of that 1818.
court were divided; and was argued by counsel on
Tie
the part of the United States. On consideration U. States
v.
whereof, this court is of opinion that a robbery coinmitted on the high seas, although such robbery, if
comnitted on land, would not, by the laws of the
United States, be punishable with death, is piracy
under the eighth section of an act entitled, "an act for
the punishment of certain crimes against the United
States;" and that the circuit courts of the United
States have jurisdiction thereof. And that the crime
of iobbery, as mentioned in the said act of congress, is
the crime of robbery as recognized and defined at common law
This court is further of opinion, that the crime of
robbery, committed by a person on the high seas, on
board of any ship or vessel belonging exclusively to
subjects of a foreign state, on persons within a vessel
belonging exclusively to subjects of a foreign state, is
not piracy within the true intent and neaning of the
act, entitled, "an act for the punishment of certain
crimes against the Uuited States," and is not punishable in the courts of the United States.
This court is further of opinion, that when a civil
war rages in a foreign nation, one part of which separates itself from the old established government,
and erects itself into a distinct government, the courts
of the union must view such newly constituted government as it is viewed by the legislative and executive departments of the government of the United
States. f f the government of the union remairis neutral;
but recognizes the existence of a civil war, the courts

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
of the union cannot consider as criminal those acts of
hostility, which war authorizes, and which 'the new
Thb
general,
U. States government may direct against it* enemy. in
the same testimony which would be sufficient to prove
v.
Palmer. that a vessel or a person is in me service of an ac181-8.

knowledged state, must be admitted to prove that.
a vessel or person is in the service of such newly
erected government. Its seal cannot be allowed to
prove itself, but, may be proved by such testimony As
the nature of the case admits. And the fact that a vessel or person is in ihe service of such government may
be established otherwise, should it be impracticable to
prove the seal.
All which is ordered to be certified to the circuit
court of the United States for the district of Massachusetts.

