OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.

(CHANCERY.)

ILIver
V.
Xyger.

M'IvER, assignee, &c. v. KYGER, et al.
Bill for the specific performance of an agreement for the exchange of lands.
The contract enforced.

THIS cause was argued by Mr. Taylor for the nppel- Feb. 4th.
lant, and by Mr. Swann for the respondents.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion Feb. 10th.
of the court.
On the 25th day of March, 1789, George Kyger and
Josiah Watson entered into articles 'for the exchange
of a lot in Alexandria, estimated at $2,200, for certain
lands in Kentucky, the property of Watson. The lot
was to be conveyed to Watson within eighteen months
from the date of the contract; in consideration of
which, Watson stipulated to convey to Kyger such lands
surveyed and patented for him, on the waters of Elkhorn in Kentucky, as the said Kyger should select; to
the extent of $ 2,200, at one dollar per acre, as soon as
Kyger should make his election, and furnish a plot and
survey of the lands chosen.
On the 23d day of December, 1790, a second agreemeat was entered into, which,' after reciting the terms
of the first, states, that George Kyger had represented
to the said Josiah) that the land on Elkhorn was not so
valuable as Kyger had supposed; and had proposed
to extend the time of surveying and, choosing the

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
'

M,Iver
V.
Kyger.

lands in Kentucky, and to be allowed to take lands to
the amount of $2,200 on the waters of the Elkhorn, or
from otherlands patented for the said Josiah, in Kentucky, at the intrinsic value which such land bore at
any time between the 25th day of March, 1789, and
the 25th day of September, 1790. On this representation it was agreed that the time for choosing, valuing,
and conveying the lands in Kentucky, should be extended eighteen months; that Kyger might take lands to
the stipulated amount, from other tracts, which were
specified, at the intrinsic value between the periods before mentioned, taking not less than 700 acres out of
any one tract. To ascertain the value of these lands,
Thomas Marshall, the elder, was chosen on the part of
Watson, and Samuel Buler on behalf of Kyger; and it
was agreed that if T. Marshall should die or refuse to
act, the agent of Watson in Kentucky should nominate some other person in his stead., A similar provision was made for supplying the place of Buler. The
selection and valuation being thus made, Josiah Watson was to convey the land selected and valued.
In the year 1806, Daniel Kyger and others, devisees
of George Kyger, party to the said contracts, filed
their bill in chancery in the circuit court for the county of Alexkandria, stating the contracts above mentioned : and stating, farther, that the lot in Alexandria had
been duly conveyed ; that Thomas Marshal had refused
to act as a valuer ; that the agent of atson had nominated John M'Whattan in his place; that in the year
1791, the said M'Whattan and Buler proceeded to make
a valuation, by which the lands on Elkhorn were val-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

5

1818.
ued at 1,200 dollars, and by 'which one tract of 1,800
acres on Ravin creek, and one other tract of 1,200 acres
lIver
on Fofklick creek, were taken to complete the amount
v.
in value to which Kyger was entitled under the con- Kyger.
tract.
The bill proceeds to state, that this valuation wds
made known to Josiah Watson, and the, conveyances,
demanded, but from some unknown cause were not
made until Josiah Watson became bankrupt. That in
the year
George Kyger departed ihis life, having
first made his lastwill in wiiting, in which he devised
all his real estate in Kentucky, to the plaintiffs. In
the year 1805 the plaintiffs presented to Josiah Watson
an affidavit made by M'Whatt~n and Buler, stating the
valuation they had made, and demanded a conveyance.
He excused himself on accoint of the bankruptcy, but
executed a release which recites the agreement and valuation; and th,t a deed for the lands had been executed by him, which was in the hands of John .M'Iver,
the defendant. This release is annexed to the bill.
The bill prays that M'fver, the defendant, who is the
assignee of the bankrupt, may be decreed to'e'onvey the
lands contain'ed in the valuation of lvPWhattan and Buler.
The answer admits the contracts, but dpes not admit that Thomas Marshall declined abting as a valuer,
or that M'Whattan was appointed in his place. It
avers that the Elkhorn lands where worth the sum at
which they were rated in the first contract, and that
the second was obtained by the fraudulent riepresentations of Kyger. ' That the valuation of M'Whattan
and Buler was not only unauthorized, but made under

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
18I8.
'

M"lIver
v. I
Kyger.

an imposition practised on'them by Kyger, who prevailed on them to consider the contract

as" obliging

them to value the lands on Elkhorn and Eagle creek at
no more that one dollar per acre, although they might
be worth more. That Josiah Watson never admitted
that Kyger was entitled to more than the Elkhorn and
Eagle-creek land, which was, therefore, not conveyed to his assignees, though the other lands mentioned
in the bill'were so conveyed' The 'defendant consents that a conveyance be decreed for the Elkhorn
and. Eagle-:creek lands, and insists thit the bill as to
the residue'ought to be dismissed.
Several depositions were taken, which generally estimate the Elkhorn and Eagle-creek land at a dollar.or
more per-acre. One deposition estimates them at 83
cents. Parts of those lands were sold by Kyger at various prices. whether on credit, or on what credit, is
not stated, averaging rather more than one dollar per
acre.
The deposition of M!Whattan was taken by the defendant,'and states ,that the valuers acted under the
first agreement; and, to the best of his. recollection,
thought themselves bound to estimate the first rate
land at no more than one dollar per acre.
The c6urt decreed a conveyance for all the lands
contained in the valuation, from which decree the defendant, appealed to this court.
The appellant contends:
1st. That the second contract ought to be annulled,
having been obtained by fraud. If this be against him,
then;

OF THE UNITED STATES.
2d. The valuation ought to be set aside, and a revaluation directed.
I. Admitting the lands on Elkhorn and Eagle-creek
to have been w~rth, intrinsically, one d~llar per'acre,
a fact not entirely certain, the court is of opinion
that
the second contract is not impeachable on that
ground.
It is not suggested, nor is it to be presumed,
that Watson derived his sole. -knoivledge of the value
of his
lands from the representations made by Kyger.
The
value fixed in the first contract was probably
founded
on his previous information, and there is no
reason to
doubt, that when Kyger was dissatisfied -with
the stipulated price, Watson was ,perfectly willing
to leave the
value to arbitrators haitually chosen by the
parties.
The court perceives no reason for:- annulling
the second contract.
2. On the second point the e~tablishment of
the vaI
uation made by M'Whatten and Buler, there
is a total
want of testimony. The defendant, in his angwer,
denies the authority of M'Whattan to act ai a
valuer, and
thete is no proof to support the allegation of
the bill.
The ex parte affidavit of M'Whattan and Buler,
did it
even contain any evidence of their authority,
is inadadmissible; and the recitals of the deed of
the release
executed by.Watson after he became a bankrupt
are
not evidence. The decree, therefore, sa far
asit establishes this valuation, and orders conveyances
to be made
in conformity.with 'it, must be reversed, and
that valuation set aside and a new one directed.
Decree accordingly.
VOL. I1I.

A

1818.
M'Iver
v.'
Xyger.

