201
16iL
'Patton
"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opilca
of the court,

The onlyquestiQn is, whether the price

of the article at the time of the breach 'of the contract,
v,,
Nicholson, or at any subsequent time before suit brqught, constiFA. 191. tates the proper rule of damages in this case. The unaximous opinion, of the court is, that the price of the
article at the time it was to be delivered, is the measure of damages. t'or myself only, I can say that I
sho'uld not think the rule would apply to e case where
edvances of money bad been made by the purehaser
under the cofitract; but I am not aware what would be
she opinion of ile court insuch a case.
Judgment affimed.

jcomxoN LAW.
PATTON v. NxIcSOLSON.
3el1 t
One cftizen of the United States bis no right to purchase ofor
oN
"d
be
to
encmy,
public
the
from
pass
or
-taother, a- license
board an Ameroah vessol.

EzzoR to the circuit court, of the district of Columbia
for the county of Alexandria.
The plaintiff in error declared in assumpsit for that
the deferant, &c. was indebted to the plaintiff in the
sum of 75Q dollars for a certaiu dQcument or pfper

0F THE UNITED-STATES.

,fned a 8awyer's License by tie plaintiff, &c. sold and

1818.
delivered to the defendant, &c. and being so indebted, Patton,
ato
the defendant, &c. afterwards, &C.promised, &c. Plea
Y.
son-assumpsit. Evidence was offered to the jury to Nicholson.
show that both parties were citizins of the United
States. and that the license in question was sold by
thi plaintifflo the defendant in Alexandria, to be used'
for the protection of the schooner Brothers, an American vessel, during the late war, against enemy's yes.sels, on -a voyage from Alexandria to St. Bartholomews,
1o be cleared out for Porto Rico. The license was as
follows:
"Copy of a letter from his Excellency H. Sawyer.
his Btitanic. Majesty's Vice-Admiral on the Halifax
station, to-his Excellency the Chevalier de Onis, his
Catholic Majesty's envoy extraordinary, -and minister
plenipotentiary near the United States of America.
His Majestys Ship Centurion at HalifaT,
the 10th of .dugust, 1812.
.Excellent Sir,
I have" the honour to acknowledge -the receipt of
your excellency's letter of the 26th ultimo, and have
fully considered the subject. of it, as being of the greate t importance to the best interests of Great Britaip, and those of his Catholic Majesty, Ferdinand VII.
and his faithful subjects; and in reply," I have great
satsfaction in informing your excellency that I will
.give directions to the commanders of his Majesty's
4quadron on this station not to molest American yes-

M6CASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT'

sels, or others under neutral flags, unarmed and laden
wilh flour and other dry provisions, bona fide bo t4
to Portuguese and Spanish ports, whose papers shill
NiCh6llon. be accompanied with a certified. copy of this letter from
your excellency, with your seal affixed or imprinted
thereon, which I doubt not will be respected by all.
I beg leave to assure your excellency of the high
consideration with which I have the henour td be your
excellency's most obedient humble servant,
1818.
Patto
P.t

(Signed)

H. SAWYER,

Vice- Admiral.
His Excellency,
Don Luis de Onis Gonzalez Lopez y Vara, his Catholic Majesty's Envoy Extraordinary, and Minister
Plenipotentiary to the United States, &c. &c. &c.
Philadelphia.7"
The court below upon this evidence, charged the jury, that on the evidence so offered, if believed by the
jury, they ought to find a verdict for the 'defendant.
'To which charge the plaintiff excepted. A verdict
was taken, and judgment rendered for the defendant;
where upon the cause was brought to this court by
writ of error.
Mr. Swann, for the plaintiff, -cited Coolidge v. InFeb~. 11h glee, 13 Mass. Rep. 26. to show that an action might
be maintained upon the sale of such a license.
Mr. Lee, on the other side, was stopped by tk*
co t.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opinion
1818.
of the court, that the use of a license or pass from the
Patttm
enemy, by a citizen, being unlawful, one citizen had
V.
iib right to purchase of, or sell to, another, such a ii- Nicholson.
cense or pass to be used on board an Amercan yesset.
Judgment affirmed a
alI the several cases, du- founded on an illegal considering the late war, of the -Julia, ration. That no contract wnat.
SCranch. 181.; the Aurora.Id. ever, foufided upon such a
203.; the Hiram, Id. 444, S.C. consideration, can be enforced
atfe. vol. 1 p. 440, and the in a court ofjustice, is a docAriadne, ante, vol. 2. p. 143. trine familiar to our jurispruthe court determined, that the dence, and was also the rule of
use of a license or passport of 'the civil law. It is upon the
protection from the enemy sanie principle that every conconstitutes an act of illegality tract, whether of sale, instawhich subjects the property rapce, or partnership, &.m
saliling under it to confiscation growing out of a commercial
in the prize court. The act of intercourse or trading with
the 2dof August, 1813, ch. the enemy, is void. Thus it
585. and of the 6th of July, has been held by the supreme
1812 ,ch. 452. s. 7. prohibiting court of New-York, that 'a
the use of of licenses or passes partnership between persons
granted by the authority of residing in two different counibe government of the United tries, for commercial purposes
Kingdom of Great Britain and is, at least, suspended; if not
Ireland, repealed by the act of ipsofacto detel:rmined by the
3d of March, 1815, ch. 766., breaking out of war between
were merely cumulative upon thosb countries; and that if
the pre-existing law of war. such partnership expire by its
It follows as a corrollary from own limitation during the war,
this principle, that a contract the existence of the war dis for the purchase or sale of penses with the necessity of
such a license is void as being givingpublic notice of the dis-

CASES IN'THE SUPREME COURT
solution. Griswold v. Wad- had been discovered, than that
of delivering passports to thq
dington, 15 Johnt. Rep.'67
Patton
of the enem5, permitvessels
superIt is, perhaps, almost
V.
to trade with the
them
ting
a
Nichoisou. fluous to'add, that the use of
kingdom upon the
the
license from the government of ports of
the country itself, to which the payment or a duty of"a crown
person using it belongs, is law- per ton, which was done by an
ful; and, consequently, any edict of 1673.ralin Sur 'Ord.
But, in order to protect a
eontract beiieen the citizens
OP mbjects of that country re- citizen in the use of 'a license
upecting such license is also from his own government to,
lawful. Thus, by the act of trade with the enemy, it is
indispensably necessary that
the 6th of July, 1812, ch. 45.
should conform to the term
"he
a. 6., thepiesident was authoconditions under which it
and
rised to give, at any time with; otherwise, thetragranted
in six months after the passage is
all contracts arisemg
and
of the act, passports for the 'ding,
safe.prote&ion of any ship or out of it, will be illegal. See
vther property belonging to the cases collected in ,hity's
British subjects, and which Late f Nalion, ch.4VIII. To
w& then within the limits of which add the following: The
the United State's. And such Byfield, Edward's adm. RqpX
licenses are by no means, as 108. The Goede Hoop, Id.
has been commonly supposed, 327. The Catharina Maria,
an invention of the present Id. 337. The Carl, Id. 339.
time. For Valin, speaking of Thd Europa, Id. 342. The
the frauds by which the com- Speculation, Id. 343. The
merce and property of the ene- Cousine Mariane, Id. .W46.
my were screened from cap- The Vrou Cornelia, Id. 349.
ture, during the war in which The Johan Pieter, Id. 354.
France and England were alli- The Jonge Frederick, Id. 357.
ed against Holland and Spain, The Europa, Id. 358. The l
not only on the high seas, but Cornelia, Id. 359. The Sarah
even in'the ports of France, Maria, Id. 361. Tb.'Henrip
remarks, that previous to the etta, Id. 363. The Nicoline,
ordinance on which he was Id. 364. The Wolfarth, Id.
.cQmmenting, no othe!, means 365. The..Enma, Id. 366.
,-of counteracting these frauds The Frau Magdalena1d. 367.
1818,

-

OF THE UNITED STATIS:.
1
v. Reid, Id. 567. Hagedorn
,PattoJ
v. Bazett,2 Mauze and Selwyn
100. Hullm'an and another
v. Whitmore, 3 Maule and NicholiMA
Gibson and
Selwyn, 337,
others v. Mair, 1 Amshall's
Rep. 39. Gibson v. Service,
Id. 119. Darby x. Newton,
2 Marshall's Rep. 252. Sudlicences, which issued to the
citizens .or subjects of the
state only, in order to'legalize
a limited commercial intercourse with the enemy, which
is tolerated from political motive, of which every govern.
ment is the exclusive judge,
have nothigg in.'them contrary
Thompson, I 'Taunl. 121. to the law of 'nations. but
Feise v. Waters, 2 Taunt. 249. when grantqd to neutrals, im
order to"enable them to cariMiller v. Gern~n, 3 Taunt. on
a trade which they have a
394. Fayle v, 13oardilJa, Id.
546. Morgan v. Oswold, Id. right to pursue, independently.
854. Feise v.Bell, 4 Taunt. of the license, or to the sub4. De Fastet v, Taylor, Id, jects of the belligerent state,.
!33. Le Cheminant vt Pear- in order to enable them to.
son, Id. 367. Fre4 alnd v. carry on a trade which is for-.
Walker, Id. 478. Wiiiiw v. bidden to neutrals under the
Scott, Id: 605. Siffkirv'G(lo - pretext of a proclamation qt
ver, Id. 717. Effurthv 5nith, blockade, they are manifestly.
47aunt. 329. Flindtv.'Scott. an abuse ofpower,. and a viola.
6 Taunt. 674 Schdafoneg ti3n of the law ofiations. In
Y. Andren, Id. 716. "Robert- both these cases they would
sonY. N4orris, Id. 720. Stant- subject the property to cap..
forth v. Sonlha, Ia.626. Sif- ture and to condemnation in
keti v. Allnut, Aaule 4r S4dwjn, the prize courts -of the other
39. Robinson and others v. belligerant, and if issted to the
Tourays Id. 217. Hagedorn subjects of that -belligerent by
28
VOL. II,

The Hoppet, Id, 369. The
Bourhe,nlias Gufe Erwagtung,
Id. 370. The, Jonge Clara,,
Id. 371. Th6' Mipryva fd.
375. The St Ivand."376.
The Hector Id." 17" The
Edel Catharina, I Xdswj'"
Mdm. Rep. 55. Thi. Vrcw
Deborah, Id. 160. Th6"ffenrietta, I'd. 168. The Bednamt,
Id. 1176. The Dankerbarfivit,
Id. 118. The Seyerstadt, Id.
tily Id. 257.
24!. The
300. The
'ld.
The lug,
The
Wohllforth, Id, 305.
Louise Charlote: de Guldene.
roni, d. 368., The Freundschaft. Id.- 316. Feise'v.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
the enemy, would also render
it liable to confiscation as bePatton
ing abreach of their allegiance.
V.
The licenses granted by the
Nicholson.
officers of the British government, Sic. during the late war,
to American vessels have been
pronounced, by this court,, to
-subject the property sailing
under them to confiscation7
when captured by American
cruisers; and it has been decided to be immaterial whether
the licenses would or would
not have saved the property
from confiscation in the British
prize c-urts, (& Cranch. 200)
but it has been made a question
in those courts how far these
could protect
documents
against British captuie, ofn account of the nature and extent
of the authority of the persons
by whom they -were issued.
The leading case on this subjectis that of Hope,(IDodson's
Adm. Rep. e26.) which was
that of an Amer;ican ship laded
-with coin and flour, captured
whilst proceeding from the
United States, to the ports of
Spain and Portugal,and claimed as protected by an instrument on board, granted by Allen, the British consul at Boston, accompanied by a certified
copy of a letter from Admiral
Sawyer, the British comman1818.

der on the Hlalifax station. Iz
pronouncing judgment in this
case, Sir W. Scott observec,
thatif there was nothing further in the way of safeguard
than what was to be derived
from these papers, it would
certainly be impossible to hold
that the property was sufficiently protected. The instrument -of protection, in order to be effectual, must c6me
from those who have a competent authority to grant such a
protection: but these papers
cbme from persons who are
vested with no such authority.
To exempt the property of
enemies from, effect of hostilities, is a very high act of
.sovereign authority: if ataiiy
time deligated to persons in a
subordinate station, it must be
exercised either by those who
have a special commission
granted to them for the particular business, and who, in
legal language, are termed
-mandatfories, or by persons in
whom such a powe is vested.
in virtue of any official situation to which it may be considered incidental. It is quite
clear, that no consul in any
country, particularly in an enemy's country, is vested with
any such power, in virtue of
his station. Ei rei xonprar

OF THE UNITED STATES.
pmlfur, and, therefore, his acts
relatingto it are not binding.
INeither does the admiral, on
any station, possess such authority. He has, indeed, power relative to the ships under
his inmediate, command, and
can restrain them from cornmitting acts of hostility; 'but
he cannot go beyond that; he
cannot grant a safeguard of
this kinJ, beyond the limits
of his own station. The protections, therefore, which have
been set up,.do not result from
any power incidental to the
situation of the persons by
whom they were granted;
and it is not pretended that
any such power was specially
entrusted to them, for the particular .occasion. If the instruments which have beeii
relied upon by the claimants
are to be considered as the
naked acts of those persons,
then they are in every point of
view, totally invalid. But te
question is, whether the British government has taken any
steps to ratify and confirm
these proceedings, and thus to
convert them into valid acts
of state ; for persons not having full powers, may make
what in law are termed posnimse, or, in diplomatic Ian-

guage, treaties, ,subspe rati, to
1838.
which a subsequent ratification
a tton
may give validity: ralihabitio
v.
iftandato eluiparature." He Nicholson.
proceeds to show that the British government had confirmed the acts of its officers by
the order in councl of the 26th
of October, 18I,
and accord-'
ingly decrees restitution of the
property. In the case of the
Reward, before the lords of
appeal, the principle of this
judgment of Sir Win. Scott
was substantially confirmed.
But in the case ot the Charles,
,and other similar cases, certificates, or passports of thesame kind, signed by Admiral
Sawyer, anj also by Don Luis
de Onis, the Spanish minister
to the United States, had been
used for voyages from America. to certain Spanish ports in
the West Indies, and the lords
held that these documents not
being included within the terms
of the ,confirmatory order in
council did not afford protection, and accordingly condemned the property. 1 Dodson, Appendix, (D.) In the
cases of the Venug and the
South-Carolina, a similar
question arose on the effect of
passports granted by Mr. For
ster,'the British minister in the

'CAS8S IN THE SUPREME COURT.
permitting all thecases in which the ]ase
Uitted States,
American vessels to sail with ports were not within the
"
'Robiumn provisions from the ports of ternsof the orders in coutcl
certain iescriptions
qazpbeli. the United-tates to'the islarn -by which
of St.Bartholomews, but not of licences granted by Mr.
eonfir.med by an order in coun- Forster 'had been -confirme&
18)lk

cit. Tbe~lords-condemned in

b.

'(CONS'rTUTIONAL ANb LOCAL LAW.)
ROBINSON T. CAMPBELL.
the compact of I802, settling the boundary line betwein Virginia ants
Tennessee, and the laws made in pursuance thereof, it ie declared that
all claims and titles to tands derived from Virginia, or North Carolina,
or Tennessee, whichhave fallen into the respective states, shall remiiB
as secure to the owners thereof, as if derived roiomthe gnvsinwunt
within whose boundary they have fillen, and shall not be prejudietil
or affected by the establishment of the line. Where the titles, bet!
of the pJaintiff and ddfendant in ejectmient were derived under grant.
from Virginia, to lands which fell within the limits of Tennessee, it
was held that a prior settlement right thereto which would, in equity,
give the party a title, could not-be asserted as a sufficient title in'am
action of ejectment brought in the circuit coutt of Tennessee.
. Although the state courts'of Tennessee have decided, that under their
statutes declaring an elder grant founded on a junior entry to be void,
a junior patent "futnded on e prior entry shall prevail at law against
4 senior. patent !'founded on a junior entry; this doetriva, has never
been extended beyond cases within the express purvier of the statute of, Tennessee, and could not apply to the present case 'Qf titles
deriving all their validity from the laws of Virginia, and cpnfirmed by
the compact between the two states.
*The general ruli is, that remedies in respect to real property are to be
,pursued acqording to the lex loci reisite. The acts of the two state

