CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
charter-party, no original correspondence, nothing, in
'fact, but those forinzl papers which never fail to acv.
company a fictitious, as well as a real, transaction.
On
Hoyt. the contrary, we find the captain, without any instructions from his supposed owners, submitting implicitly
to the orders of Bennett & Co. in every thing; and the
latter assuming even a control over the contract which
he exhibits with h;. supposed owner in Riga, and expressing a solicitude about his expenses, which could
only have been suggested by a consciousness that the
house of B. & Co. would have to pay those expenses.
Upon the whole,'we are satisfied that it is a case for
condemnation both of ship and cargo.
1818.

Decree affirmed.

(CONSTITUTIONAL AND COMMON LAW.)
GELSTON, et al. V. HOYT.
Under the judiciary act of 1781, ch. 20. s. 25. giving appellate jurisdictionto the suprome court of the United Stateq, from the final judgment or decree of the hghest court of ]aw or equity of a state, its
certain cases, the writ of error'may be directed to any court in which
the record and judgment on whicl it is to act may be found, and if
the record has been remitted by the highest court, &c. to another
court of the state, it may be brought by the weit of error from that
court.

The courts of the United States have an exclusive cognizance of the
questions of forfbituro upon all seizures made under the laws of the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
United Ltile; and it is not competent for a state court to entertain
or decide such question of forfeiture. If a sentence ofcondemnation
be dcfinhdvely pronounced by the proper court of the United States,
it is conclusive that a forfeiture is incurred ; if a sentence of acquittal
it is cqually conclusive against the furfeiture , and in either case, the
question cannot be again litigated in any common law forum.
Where a seizure is made for a rupposed frorfaiture, under a law of ther
United States, no action oftrespass lies in any common law tribunal,
until a final decree is pronounced upon the-proceeding in rem to enforce surh forfeiture; for it depends upon the final decree' of the
court proceeding in rem whether such seizure is to be deemed rightful or tortious, and the action, if brought before such decree is made,
is brought too soon.
If a ;uit be brought against the seizing officer for the supposed trespas
while the suit fot the forfeiture is depending, the fact of kuch pendency
may be pleaded in ahatomen, or a temporary bar oftbe action. If
after a dcree of condemnatim, -then that fact may be pleaded as a
bar; if afler an arquittal, with a certificate of reasonable cause of
seizure, then that may be pleaded as a bar. If, after an acquittal with.
otil sech certificate, then the officer is without any justification for
the seizure, and it is definitively settled to be a tortious act. If to anactiori:of tresrass in a state court for a seizure, the seizing officer
plead the fact of forfeiture in his defeuce without averring a li pen.
dens, or a contdemnation, or an acquittal with a certific-ate of reasonabin cause ofseizure, the plea is bad ; for it attempts to put in issue the
question of forfeiture in a state coqrt.
At common laty any person may, at his peril, seize for a forfeiture to the
government, and ifthe government adopt his seizure, and the properiyis condemned, he is justified. By the act ofthe 18th of February
1793, ci. 8.9. 27. officers of the revenue are authorized to make sei-

zures of any ship or goods for any breach ofthe laws of the United
States.
The statute of 1794, eh. 50. s. 3. prohibiting ioe litting out any ship
&c. for the service ot any foreign prince or states, to cruise against the
subjects, &c. of any other foreign prince or state, does not apply to
any now government, unless it has been acknowledged by the United
States, or by the governnentofthe country to which surh newrstate
belonged. And a p'ea which sets up a forfeiture under that act in fitting out a ship to cruise against such new state, must aver such recog.
nition, or it is bad.
A plea justifying a seizure under this statute need not state the partie-

1818.

Gelston
V,
Hoyt.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT,

'48

ular prince or state by name, ag:inst whom the Oh'p was intendodta

18.
S

Geiston
V.t

-oy

cruise.

A plea justifying a seizure and delention by virtue of the 7(h section of
)u' t
the act of 1794, under the expree instroclions of the presidcn',
was
States
Uni:ed
the
of
force
aver tlt thenaval or military
the frro so emed for that purpose, and thiat the seizor belonged to
apply exrept
ployed. The 7th section of the act was not intendrd o
by thii orenfneed
be
not
could
detention
to cases where a seizure or
Pruki*
the
of
opinion
the
in
necesi'y,
a
was
there
and
dinary power,
dent, to employ naval or military power for this purpo. c.
it is stirTo trespass for taking and detaining, and converting properly,
and if the
detention;
and
dking
t
the
of
justification
a
plead
ficienttp
new as
plaintiff relies on the conversion, he should reply it by way of
signment.
should n,)t
A plea alleging a seizure for a forfeiture as a justification,
aver that
but
firfeiture,
the
establish
only state the facts relied on to
was qeiand
fbrfried,.
actually,
was
and
became,
thereby the property
forfeited.
as
zed

for the trial of impeachiments
and correction of errors of the State of New-York.
ERRQP to the court

This-cause had been removed into that court by the
present plaintiffs in error, by writ of error directed
to the supreme court of the said state.

1816,

the court

the correction of

In January,

of the state of New-York for
errors in all things

affirnred the

judgment which had been rendered by the supreme
court of the state of New-York, in favour of loyt,
the prfesent defendant in error.

And before the com-

the
ing of the'writ of error issued from this court,
of
state
said court for the correction of errors of the
New-York, according to the laws of the state of New-

York, and the practice'of that. court, had remitted the
record, which had been removed from the supreme

court of the state of New-York. to the said suthe
premte court, with a mandate thereon requiring

OF THE UNITED STATES.

kupreme court of the state of New-York, to execute the

1818.

judgment, which had lheen' so rendered by it in favour
of the defendant in erior., And the saidr'cord having Gelston
v.*
been so remitted, -the court of errors .of the state of Hoyt
New.York upon the coming of the said writ of error.
from this court, made the following return thereto:
"State 6f New-York, ss. The president of the senate,
the senators, chancellor, and judges of the supreme
court, in the court for the trial of impeachments and the
correction of errors; certify and return to thq supreme
court of the United States, that before the coming of
their writ of error, the transcript of the record in the
cause, in the said writ of error mentioned, together with
the judgment of this court thereon,1 and all things
touching the same, were duly remitted in pursuance of
the statute instituting this court, into the supreme court
of judicature of this state,to.the end that farther proceedings might be thereupon had, as well for executiob as
otherwise, as might be agreeable to law and justice; and
in which supreme court ofj udicature, the said judgment,
and all other proceedings in the said suit, now remain
of record; and as the same are no longer before, or within the cognizance of this court, this court N' unable to
make any other or farther return to the said writ. All
which is humbly submitted."
thereupon the counsel
for the plaintiffs in error made an application to the
supreme court of the state of New-Yorkto stay the proceedings upon said jtidgment, till an application could
be made to this court iq respect to the said writ of error.
To avoid this delay,, the counsel under the advice or j
suggestion of the judges of the said supreme court of
VOL. III.
33

CASES IN THE SUPREIE CQURT
1818.
.

Gelston
v.
Hoyt.

the statd of New-Ycrk, entered into the following agreeMent viz. "Itis agreed, betwebn the attorneysof theerror, that
above named 'plaintiffs and defendant in
of exthe annexed is a true copy of the record and bill
ceptions, returnedl by the supreme court of the state of
and
New-York, to the court of errors of the said state,
remitted by 'the said court of errors, in the affirmance
said
of the judgment of the said supreme cour to the
conbe
shall
copy
said
the
supreme court. And that
sidered by the said supreme court of the United States,
as a true copy of the said record and bill of exceptions,
writ
and shall have the same effect as if annexed to the
court
suprc.ne
said
the
from
of error in the above cause
of the United States, and that the clerk of the supreme
court of the state of New-York transmit the same, with
the
this agreement to the clerk of the supreme court of
said
the
by
be'annexed
United States, and that the same
clerk of the supreme court of the United States, to the
said writ of error, as a true copy of the said record and
bill of exceptiOns."

Record and Bill of Excepfions."
of N w-York, ss. Be it rememberCounty
City and
Lord
ed, that in the term of January, in the year of our
Goold
came
one thous and eight hundred and thirteen,
Hoyt, by Charles Graham, his attorney, into the Suof
preme court of judicature of the people of the state
state
New York, before the justices of the neople of the
the
of
judicature
of
of New-York, of the supreme court
and
Albany,
same people, at the capitol, in the city of
in a
Schenck,
A.
Peter
and
impleaded David Gelston
Hoyt
certain plea of trespass, on which the said Goold

OF THE UNITE]i STATES.
declared against the said David Gelston and Peter A.
1818.
Sbhench in the words following:GelstQn
City and County ot New-York, ss.: 'Goold Hoyt,
v.
Hoyt.
and
Gelston
David
of
complains
suit,
this
in
plaintiff
Peter A. Schnckj defendants in the Suit, in custody, Declaratio&c.: For that, whereas, the said defendants, on the
tenth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand
eight hundred and ten, with force and arms,at the city
of New-York, in the county of New-York, and at the
first ward of the same city, the goods and chattels of the
said plaintiff)- of the value of'two hundred thousand
dollars, then and there found did take and carry a way,
and other injuriesto the said plaintiff then and there did,
to the great damage- of the said plaintiff, and against
the peace of the people of the State of New-York. And,
also, for that the defendant§, afterwards, to wit, on the
same day and year last'aforesaid, at the city and county, and ward aforesaid, -with force and arms, to wit; with
swords, staves, hands, and feet, other goods and chattels of the said plaintiff, to wit, a ship or vessel of the
said plintiff, called the Amlerican Eagle, together with
her tackle, apparel, and furniture, five hundred tons of
stone ballast: one hundred hogsheads of water. one
hundred and thirty barrels salted provisions, twenty
hogsheads of ship-bread, of the value of two hundred
thousand dollars, at the place aforesaid found, did take
and carry away, 'and other wrongs and inju'ries. to the
said plaintiff then and there did, to the great damage of
the said plainti, and against the peace of the .people of
the state of New.York: And also, for that the said,

52
3818.
%
Gelston
V.
11oYt.

CASES IN THE SUPRENE COURT
defendants, afterwards, to wit, on the same day and
year, and at the place aforesaid, the goods and chattels
of the said plaintiff, to wit, a ship or vesqel of the said
plaintiff, called the American Eagle, ogether with her
tackle, apparel, and furniture, five hundred tons stone
ballast, one hundred hogsheads of water. one hundred
and thirty barrels of salted provisions and twenty hogsheads of shili-broad, of the value of two hundred thousind dollars, then and there being and found, seised,
'took, carried away, damaged, and spoiled, and converted and disposed thereof, to their own use, and other
wrongs to the said plaintiff then and there did, to the
great damage of the said plaintiff, and against the peace
of the said people of the state of New-Yorl:: And, also,
for that the said defendants, on the same day and year
aforesaid, with force and arms, to wit, with swords'
staveshands, and feet, to wit, at the city, county,
and 'ward aforesaid, seised and took a certain ship
or vessel of the said plaintiff of great value, to wit,
of the value of two hundred thousand dollars, and in
which said ship or vessel the said plaintiff then and
there intended, and was about to carry and convey certain goods and merchandises, for certain freight and
reward, to be therefor paid to bim the said plaintiff;
-and thefi and there carried away the said ship or
vessel, and kept and detained ithe same from -the
-said plaintif, for a long 'space of time, to wit,
hitherto, and converted and disposed thereof.to their
own use; and thereby the' said plaintiff was hindered
and prevented from'carrying and'conveying the said
goods and merchandises as aforesaid, and thereby

OF THE UNITED STATES.

•
lost and was deprived of all the profit, benefit,
arid. ad1818.'
vantage which .fight and would otherwise have arisen %
and accrued 'to him therefrom, to wit,
at the city, Gilston
.
county and ward aforesiid, and other
wrongs aid UOYt
injuries to the said plaintiff then and there
did, against
the. peace of the people of the.state of
New-York, and
to the great damage of the said plaintiff.
And also, for
that the said defendants, afterwards,
to wit, 'on the
same day and year last afordsaid, at the
city, county,
and ward aforesaid, with force and arms,
seised,, and
took possession of divers go.ods and chattels
of the saidplaintiff, then and there found, and being
in the whole
of a large value, that is to say,_a shp
or vessel of the
said plaintiff, called the American Eagle,
together. with
her tackle, apparel, and furniture, five
hundred tons of
stone ballast, one hundred hogsheads
of water, one
hundred and thirty barrels of salted provisions,
twenty
hogsheads of ship--bread, of the value
of two hundred
thousand dollars, and staid and continued-in
possession
of the said goods and chattels, o -by them
seized and,
taken as aforesaid, and the said goods
anal"ehattels afterwards took and carried aivay, from
and out of the
possession of the said plaintiff: whereby,
and by reason, and in consequence of such said
seizure, and of
other the priemises aforesaid, the said plaintiff
not only
lost, and was deprived of his said goods
and chattels,
and of all profits, benefits, and ad'vantages,
thatcould
have arisen and accrued to hira for the
use, sale, eniployment, and disposal thereof, but was
aIso forced and
obliged to, and did 'actually, lay' out and
expehd large.
sums o money, and to beat further trouble
and expense

,54
1818.
Gelsown
G
V.
Hot.

1st. Ple.

d. Plea:

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
the
in and about endeavouring to obtain restitution of
property so bythe said defendants seined, vs aforesaid,
plaintiff then
and'other wiongs and injuries to the said
of the
people
thq
of
peace
and there did, against the to the damage of the said
state of New-York, and
and, thereplaintiff of two hundred thousand dollars;
fore, he brings suit, &c.
Schenck
And the said David Gelston and Peter A.
thereto pleaded in the words following:
And the said David Gelston and Peter A. Schenck
come and de'by Samuel B. Romaine, their attorney,
say that they
and
&c.,
fend the force and injury, when,
above laid
are not guilty of the said supposed trespasses,
manner and form
to their charge, or any part thereof, in
thereof complained
as the said Goold Hoyt hath above
upon the
against them, and of this they put themselves
counitry.
this behalf, as to the sevAnd for a further plea in
eral trespasses mentioned in the first, second, third,
of the said
foxirth, and fifth counts in the declaration
away
carrying
and
plaintiff mentioned, to wit, in taking
mentioned
plaintiff,
the goods and chattels of the said
of the said
declaration
said
in the first count in the
away the goods and
plaintiff; in taking and carrying
wit, a ship or vessel of
chattels of the said-plaintiff, to
Eagle, together
the said plaintiff, called the American
furniture, five hundred
withher tackle,, apparel; and
hogsbeads of water,
tons of stone ballast, one hundred
salted provisions, and
one hundred and thirty barrels of
mentioned in the sectwenty hogsheads of ship-bread,
of the said plaintiff;
ond epunt in the said declaration
damaging, spoilings
in seizing, taking, carrying away,

OF THE UNITED STATES.

25

converting, and dlisposihg to their own use, the goods '1818.
the sai,_ plaintiff,.to r-it,:.a ship or Ves- Gist
and chattels off
i
called the,-American Eagle, toplaintiff;
sel of-the said
Holt.
hunfive
furniture,
gether with her tackle, apparel, and
dred toneaf ston.ballast, one bulndred hogsheads of
waterlpn4e hundred and thirty barrels of salted provisions, -and twentyhogsheads of ship-bread, mentioned ini
thq,thgr count in the said declaration of the said plainqff;"in-sciitg, taking carrying away, keeping and
detaining, and'converting.,igd disposing to their own
use, a certain ship or ves vl of -the said plaintiff,
mentioned in the fourth cpat in the said declaration,
df the said plaintiff, and, it seizing and taking possession of, and in taking and carrying from and out of
the possession of the said plaintiff, the goods and chattels. of the said plaintiff, to wit, a ship' or vessel of the
said. plaintiff; called the cmerican Eagle, together with .her, tackle, apparel, and furniture, five
hundred tons of stone ballast, one hundred 'hogsh'eads
of water Wena hundred and 'thirty 'barrels of salted
provisions, and twenty hogsheads of ship read, men
tijond in the fifth c.ount ijn. the said' declaration of the
•
said plaintiff, above su~iposed to have beert committed
by the said David 'Gelston and Peter A. Sdhenci;
they, the said David Gelston and Peter, A. Schenck,
by leave of the court here for this purpose first had
and obtained, according to the form of the statute in
such case made and provided, say, that the said
Goold Hoyt ought not to have or iaintain his aforesaid action again'st them, because they say that the
said ship or vessel, called the American Eagle, with

56
1818.
Gelston,
'
Gt,
Hoyt.

cASES IN THE SUPREME COURT'
her tackle, apparel, and firditure, the five hundred
hogshead of watons of stone ballast, one hundred
ter,' one hundred and thirty barrels of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of ship-bread, mentionet
in the second, third, and fifth counts in the said
declaration of the said plaintiff, are the same and not
other or different ; and that the seizing, taking, carrying away, keeping, detaining, damaging, spoiling,
converting and disposing thereof to their own use,
mentioned in the second, third, and fifth counts in the
said declaration of the said plaintiff, are the same and
And the said David Gelsnot other or different.
ton and Peter A. Schenck further say, that the ship
or vessel, mentioned in the fourth count in the said
declaration of the said plaintiff, is the same ship or
in
vessel, called the American Eagle, mentioned
declarasaid
the
in
the second, third, aid fifth counts
;
tion of the said plaintiff, and not other or different
and that the seizing, carrying away, keeping and detaibing, and converting and disposing thereof, to their
own use, meptioned in the fourth count in the said
declaration of the said plaintiff, is the same seizing,
and
taking, carrying away, keeping and detaining,
converting and disposine thereof, to their own use;
in the
*mentioned in the'secona, third, and fifth counts'
or
other
gaid declaration of the said plaintiff, and not
different. And the said David Gelston and, Peter
A. Schenek further say, that the said shin or vessel,
called ihe American Eagle, with her tackle, ipparel,
of stone
and furniture, and the five hundred tons
hunballast, one hundred hogsheads of water, one
and
ilred and thirty barrels of salted provisions,

OF THE UNITED STATEg.
tWenty hogsheads of ship-bread, mentioned in the second,
1818.
third, and fift~olaunts in the said declaration of the said GeiSton
plaintiff, are ieluded in and are the only goods and
v
chattels-embraced by the general description of goods Hoyt.
4nd chattels tuentioned in the first count in the said declaration of the aid plaintiff, andthat the taking and
carrying away thereof,, mentiondd in the said first
count in the said declaration of the said plaintiff, is the.
same taking and carrying away thereof mention in the
saia second, thirdi and fifth counts iri the said declaration of the said plaintiff, and not other or differenf;.and
that the several trespasses mehtioned in the-first, secondi
third, fourth, and fifth counts in the said declaration
of the said plaintiff, are the same trespasses,,and not
other or.different. And the, said' David Gelston tnd
Peter A. Schenck further Say,, that before the tenth
day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight
hundred and ten, to wit, on the first day of Jily, in
the year last aforesaid, 'at the port of Ifew-York, in the
district of New-York, to wit, at the city of NeWYork, in the county of New-York, and.' it the first
ward of the said city, the said ship or vessel, called
the American Eagle, with her tackle, apparel, and
furniture, was attempted to be fitted out and armed,
and that the said five'hundredtons of stone ballast$
one hundred hogsheads of water, one hundred and
thirty barrels of salted provisions, and, twenty hogshtads of ship-bread. were- then -and there procured
for equipment of the said vessel, and were then an-'
there on board of the said vessel, as- a part of her
said equipment, 'with intent that the said ship or 'yes,
34
VoL. III.
'""

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
sel, called the American Eagle, should be employed
in the service of a foreign state, to wit, of that part
%
Gelston
of the island of St. Domingo wlaich was then under
the government of Petion, to commit hostilities upon
HoyI
the subjects of another foreign state, with which the
United States of America were th'en at peace, to wit,
of that part of the island of St. Domingo which was
then under the government of Christophe, contrary
proto the form of the statute hi sunh case made and
provided. And the president of the said United
presiStates, to wit, James Madison, who was then
the
of
virtue
by
dent of the said United States,
constitution
the
power and authority vested in him by
and laws of thor 3aid United States, did, afterwards,
year last
to wit, on the sixth day of July, in the
of Newcity
the
at
aforesaid, at Washington, to wit,
the ward
York, in the county of New-York, and at
direct
aforesaid, authorise, empower, instruct, and
to
Schenck
A..
and''Peter
Gelston
the- said David
the
to
forfeited
as
detain,
seize, take, carry away, and
user of the; said United States, the said ship or
vessel, called 'the American Eagle, with 'her tackle,
apparel, and furniture, and the said five hundred tons
of- stone ballast, one hundred hogsheads of water.
one hundred and thirty barrels of salted prbvisions,
and twenty hogsheads* of ship-bread: And the said
David Gelston and Peter A. Schenck' further say,
that they did afterwards, to wit, on the tenth day of
July, in the year last aforesaid, .at the port of' NewYork, in the district of New-York, to wit, at the city
of,-New-Ybrk; in the county of New-York, and
at- the ward aforesaid, by virtue of the said power
18,18.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

t3!

and authority, and in pursuance of the said instruc1818.
tions and directions so given as aforesaid to them, the '
said David Gelston 'and Peter A. Schenck, by the Gelstoh
said pr.esid'nt of the said United'States, and not Hoyt.
otherwise, seize, take, carry away, and detain the said
ship or vessel, calId the American Eagle, with her
tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the said' five hundred
tons of stone ballist, one hundred hogsheads of
water, one hundred and thirty barrels of salted'
previsions, and twenty hogsheads of ship-bread, as
forfeited to the use of the 'said United States, according to the form of the Statute in such case made and
provided: And the said David Gelston and Peter 'A.
Schenck further say, that the seizing, taking. carrying
away, and detaining of the said ship or. vessel, with
her tackle, apparel, and furniture,, and the. said fivehundred tons of stone ballast, one hundredhogsheads of
water, one hundred and thirty barrels of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of shil-bread; by the
said David Gelston and Peter A: Schenck, on the
tenth day of July one thousand eight hundred and
ten, as aforesaid, is the same seizing, taking, carrying
away and detaining of the said, ship or vessel, with
her tackle, apparel,, and furniture, and the said five
hundred tons of stone ballast, one hundred hogsheads of Water, one hundred and thirty barrels of
saltdd provisions, and twenty hogsheads of shipbread, mentioned in the several counts in the said depIaration of the said- plaintiff, and not other or different: And this they, the sail David. GeJston and
Peter A. Schenck, are ready to. verify;, wherefore
they pray judgment if the said Goold Hoyt ought to

260
1818,
o
6elston
v.
HDoyA
Od. Plea.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
have or maintain his aforesaid action thereof against
them, &c.
3" And for a further plea in this behalf, as to the
several trespasses mentioned in the first, second, third,
Ififth counts in the declaration of the said
fourth, .and
plaintiff mentioned, to wit, in taking and carrying
away the goods and chattels of the said plaintiff, mentioned in the first count in the said declarationof
the said plaintiff; in taking and carrying away the goods
and chAttels- of the said plaintiff, to wil; a ship or
vessel of the said .plaiatiff, cal~ed Ihe American
Eagle, together with her tackle, apparel, and- furni.
ture, five hundred tons of stone ballast, one hundred
hogsheads of water, one hundred and thirty barrels of
salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of ship-bread,
mentioned in the second count in the said declaration
of the said plaintiff; in seizing, taking, carrying away
damaging, spoiling, converting, and disposing to their
own use, the goods and chattels of the said plaintiff,
to wit, a ship or vessel of the said plaintiff, called th6
American Eagle, together with her taokle,'aplarel,
ptnd furniture, five hundred tons of stone ballast, one
hundred hogsheads of water, one hundred and thirty
barrels of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of
ship.breid, mentianed in the third count iii the said
leclaraIion of the said ptaintiff; in seizing, taking,
parrying away, keeping and detaining, and convert,
ing and disposing to their own use, a certain ship or
vessel of the said plaintiff, mentioned in the fourth
count in the said declaration of the said plaintiff, and
in seizing and 'taking possessiqn of, and in taking and
q~rrying from 'and out rf the possession of the said

OF THE UNITED STATES.
plaiptiff, to wit, a ship or vessel of the said plaintiff, 1811
e
called the American Eagle, together w;ith her tackle,
v.
stone
apparel) and furniture, five hundred tons of
ballast, one hundred hogsheads of -ater, one hun- jj@IJ
dred and. thirty barrels of salted provisions, and twen
ty hogsheads of ship bread, mentioned in the fifth
,count in the said declaration of the said plaintiff,
above supposed to iave been 'ommitted by the said
David Gelston and Peter A. Schenk, they, the said
David Gelston and Peter A. Schenk, by leave of'the
court here for the purpose first had and o6tained, according to the form of the statute in such case made
and provided, say, that the said Goold Hoyt ought not
to have 'or maintain his aforesaid action against thqm,
because they say, that the said ship or vessel, called
the American Eagle, with her tackle, apparel, and
furniture, the five hundred tons of stone ballast, one
hundred hogsheads- of water, one hundred and thirty
barrels of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of
ship-bread, mentioned in the second, third, and fifth
counts in'the said declaration of the said, plaintiff,
are the same, and not other or different; and that
the seizing, taking, carrying away, keeping, detaining damaging, spoiling, converting, and disposing
thereof to their own use, mentioned in the second,
third, and fifth counts in the said declaration 4f the
said plaintiff, are the same, and not other or different :
And the said David Gelston and Peter A. Schenck
further say, that the ship or vessel mentioned in the
the said declaration of the said plainfourth count 'in
tiff, is the same ship or vessel, called the American
Eagle, mentioned in the second, third, and fifth counts

t'ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Isis.
'.0-

Gelston
V.
Hoyt.

in the said declaration of'the said plaintiff, and not

other or different ; and that the seizing, carrying
away, lieeping and detaining, and converting and
disposing thereof, to their qwn use, mentioned in the
fourth count in the said declaration of the said plaintiff, is the same seizing, taking, carrying away, keeptrig and detaining, and converting aad disposing
thereof, to their own use, mentioned in the second,'
third, and fifth counts in the said declaration of the
said plaintiff, and not other or different: And the said
D)avid Gelston and Peter A. Schenck further say,
that the said ship or vessel, called the American
Eagle, with her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and
the five hundred tons of stone- ballast, one hundred
'hogsheads of water, one hundred and thirty barrels
of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of shipbread, mentioned in the second, third, and fifth counts
in the s, id declaration of the said plaintiff, are included in, and are the only goods and chattels embraced by the general description of goods and chattels, mentioned in the first count in the said declaration of the said plaintiff, and that the taking and carryirg away -thereof, mentioned in the said first count
in the said declaration of the said plaintiff, is the
same taking and carrying away thereof, mentioned
aid " second, third, and fifth counts in the said
in t*
declaration of the said plaintiff, and not other or different ; and that the several trespasses mentioned in
the first, -second, third, fourth, and fifth counts in the
said declaration of -the said plaintiff, are the same
trespass, and not other or -different: And the said
David Gelston and Peter A. Schenck further say,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
181.
that before the tenth day of July, in the year of o ur
to
wit,
on
'0t'
Lord one thousand eight hundred and ten,
the first day of July, in the year last aforesaid, at the
port ofNew-York, in the district of New-York, t6
HoYLt.
wit, at the city of New-York, in the county of NewYork, and at the first ward of the said city, the said
ship or vessel, called the .Americam Eagle, with her
tackle, apparel, and furniture, was atteinpted to be
fitted out and armed, and that the said five hundred
tons of stone ballast, one hundred hogshesds of wa-.
ter, one hundred and thirty barreis of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of ship-bread, wer6
then and there procured for the equipment of the
said vessel, and were then and there on board of the
said vessel, as a part of her said' equipment, with intent that the said ship or vessel, called the American
Eagle, should be employed in the service of some foreign state, to commif hostilities upon the subjects of
another foreign state, with which the United States
were then at peace, contrary to the form of the statute in such case made and provided. And the president of the said United States, to wit, James Madison, who was then president of the said Tnited States,
by virtue of the power and aithority vested in him
by the constitution and laws of the said United
States, did afterwards, to wit, on the sixth day
of July, in the year last aforesaid, at Washington, to wit, at the city of New-York, in the county of New-York, and at tne ward aforesaid, authorize, empower, instruct, and direct the said Dayid Gelston and Peter A, Schenck to take possession .of, and detain the, said ship or vessel, called the American - Eagle, with her tackle, apparel

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
III$.
"'-"*on
GeIston
V.
hoyt.

and furniture, and the said five hundred tons of stone
ballast, one nundred hogsheads -of water, one hi~ndred and thirty barrels of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of ship-bread, in order to the execution
of the prohibitions and" penalties of the act in such
case mad6 and provided: And the said David Gelston,
and Peter A. Scheuck further say, that they did
afterwards,'to wit, oih the tenth day of July, in the
year last aforesaid, at the port ;f New-Yoik, in the
district of New-York, to wit, at the city of NewYork, in the county of New-York, and at the ward
aforesaid, by virtue of the said power and authority,
and in pursuance of the said instructions and directions so given as aforesaid to them, the said David
Gelston and Peter A. Schenck, by the said president
of the said United States, and not otherwise, take
possession of, and detain the said ship or vessel, called the American Eagle, with her tackle, apparel and
furniture, and the said five hundred tons of stone ballast, one hundred hogsheads of water, one hundred
and thirty barrel's of salted provisions, and twenty
hogsheads of ship-bread, in order to the execution
of the prohibitions and penalties of the act in such
case made and proviaed: And the said David Gelston and Peter A. Schenck further. say, that the
taking possession of, and detaining of the said ship
or vesse with her tackle, apparel, and furnitiire, and
the sqid five hundred tons of stone ballast, one hundred hogsheads of water, one hundred and thirty
barrels of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of
ship-bread, by the said David Gelston and Peter' A.
Schenck, on the tenth day of July, one thousand

OF TH9 UNITMDSTATt.

26

eight hundred and ten, as aforesaid,, is the same 1I18.
seizing, taking, carrying a:way, and detaining of the
'
said ship or vessel, with her tackle'appareI, and fur- Geisteit
V.
niture, and the said five hundred tons of stone hal- hoyt.
last, one hundred hogsheads of water, one hundred and
thirty Bari els of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads
of ship-bread mentioned in the several co'unts in the
said declaration of the said plaintiff, and ndt other or
diferent: And this they, the said David Gelston and
Peter A. Schenck, are ready to verify ;,wherefore
they pray judgment if the said Goold Hoyt ought to
have or maintain his aforesaid action 'thereof against
them, &c.
And to which th -said foregoing pleas, was subjoined the following notice.
SiR-Please to take notice that the defendants, at
the trial of the above cause, will insist upon, and give
in evidence, under the general issue above, pleadedi
t hat the ship or vessel called the American Eagle,
with her tackle, apparel, and furnitdre, before -the
tenth day of July, in the year oi our Lord one thousand eight hundred and ten, to wit, on the' first day
of July, in the year last aforesaid, at the port of NewYork, in the district of New-York, .to wit, at the city
of New-York, in the county of New-York, and at the
first ward of the said city, was attempted to be fited out
and armed, and was fitted out and armed, and that
the said five hundied tons of stone ballast, one hundred
hogsheads otwater, one hundred and thirty barrels of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of ship-bread
were procured for the equipment of the said. vessel and
were then and there on board of the' said vessel, aS
VOL. IIL

35 ,

I

IN THE SUPREM

6CASM
1818.
Gelstoa
1.
Bol

,ECOURT

'Apart of her sail- equipment, with intent that the
ship or vessel, called the American Eagle, should
be employed in the service of a foreign prince or state,
to wit, of that part of the island ofSt. Domingo

Ssaid

which was then under the government of Petion, to
cruise and commit hostilities upon the subjects, citizens, and Woperty ofanother foreLa prince or state
with which the United States were then at peace, to
wit, of that pait of the iland of St. Domingo which
wasthen under the government of Christophe, contrary to theform of the statute in such case made and
provided: And the 'said- defendants will also' insist
upon, and~give in evidence under the .'said plea, that.
the said ship or vessel, with her tackle, apparel, and
furniture, on the day and year last aforesaid, at the
port of New-York, in the district of New-York, to
wit, at the city of New York, in the county of
New-York, and at the ward aforesaid, was at,tempted to be fitted out and armed, and was fitted
ouit and armed, and that the said five hundred
tons of stone ballast, one hundred hogsheads of
water, one hundred and thirty barrels of salted provisions, and twenty hoasheads of ship-bread, were
procured for the equipment of the said vessel, and
-were then and there on board of the said vessel, as a
part of her said equipment, with:intent that the said
ship'or' vessel should be employed in the service of
some foreign prince or state, M6 cruise and commit
hostilities upon the subjects, citizens, and property of
some other foreign prince or state,, with which the
United States were then at peacey contrary to the
form of'the'statute in such case made and provided,

OF THE UNITED STATtS.
And the said defendants -will also insist up:n, and' "118.
give in evidence under the said plea, that he', the said Goistop
David Gelston, was .cdllector, and that' he, the said
Peter A. Schenck, was surveyor of the customs for
Hoyt.
the 'district of the city of New-York, on the 10th day
of July one thousand eight 'hundred and ten, and before that time, and that they have ever 'since continued to be collector and sexveyor as aforesaid4,and
thatthey, the said David Gelston and Peter A. Schencc
as collector and surveyor as aforesaid, and not oth.
erwise, did, on the said tenth day of July, in the year
last aforesaid, at the port of New-York, in the di-trict
of New-York, to wit, 4t the city of New-York, in the
county ofNew-York,-and at the first ward' of the said
city, seize, take, and detain the ship or vessel,'with
her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the' said five
hundred tons of stone ballast, one hundred" hogsheads
of water, one hnudred and thirty barrels of salted pro.
visions, and twenty bogsheads of ship-bread, according.
to the form of the statutfin such case made and provided, and by virtue of the powerand authoity vested
in them by the constitution and laws of the United
States. Dated this 11th day of March, 1813. *
And the said Goold Hoyt, to the said first plea,
joined issue, and to the second"and third pleas the said
Goold Hoyt demurred as follows :
And as to the plea of the said David qelston and
Peter A. Schenck,.by them" first above pleaded' and
whereof they have put themselves upon the" country,"
thesaid Goold Hoyt doth the like, &c.
And as to the pleas by the said David Gelston and pmr.

68

CASES IN4 THE SUPREME COURT

18 M. 'Peter A. Schenek, by them
GdIstoU
.,
Jj0yt.

econdly and thirdly

above pleaded in oar, the said Goold Hoyt saith,
that the second and third pleas of the' said David
Gelston and Peter A. Schenck, or either ,of them, and
the matters therein contained, in manner arid form as
,the same are above pleaded and set forth, are not sufficient, in law, to bar and prehcl e him, the said
Gopoid Hoyt, from having and maintaining his action
af6desaid, against the said David Gelston and Peter
A. Schenck; and that he, the said GoqId Hoyt, is
not bound by the law of the land to answer the same,
and this he- is ready to verify ;" wherefore, for want of
a sufficient plea in, this behalf, the said Goold Hoyt
prays judgment, and his damages by him sustained,
on occasion of the committing of the said trespasses, to
be adjudged to him, &c.
And the said David Gelston, and Peter A. Schenck
thereupon joined in demurrer as follows.
And the said David Gelston and Peter A. Schenck
say, that their said pleas, by them secondly and third
ly above pleaded, .and the matters therein contained,
in manner and form as the same are abo-e pleaded
and set forth, are sufflcient, in law, to bar and preclude the said Goold Hoyt, from havina and maintaining hls aforesaid action !thereof. against, them, the
said David Gelston and Peter A. Schenck: and that
they, the said David Gelston and Peter A. Schencx,
are ready to verify and prove the same, -when, where,
and in such manner as the said cour tshall direct;
wherefore, inasmuch as the said Goold Hoyt has not
answer.ed the sail second and third pleas, nor hitherto,

in any manner, denied the same, .the said David Gel-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
,ston and Peter A. Schenck. Prav iudament. and that
the said Goold Hovt may be barred from having, 9r
maintaining, his aforesaid .action thereof against
theni, the said David Gelston and Peter A. Scienck,
&c-

IA S,
o.
.:

And; after*ard',; the said demurrer was brought on
to be argued before the said ,supreme court,,at the
city hall of the city of New-York, and judgmentva•
given against the said David Gelston and PeterA.
Schenck upon the said demurrer.
And afterwards, to wit, at the sittings of nisi prius, Bill or Er
ceptions.
held at the city hall of the city of New-York 'afor_
said, in and for the said city and county, on the fifteenth day of November, in the- year of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and fifteen, before the
honourable Ambrose Spencer, esq. one of the justice's
of the supreme court of judicature of the people of
the state' of New-York, assigned to hold pleas in the
-said sittings, according to the form of the statute in
such case mate and provided, the aforesaid issue, P
joined between iihe said'parties as aforesaid, came on
,to be tried by a jury of the city and county of NFW.vw'
York aforesaid, for that purpose empannoled, that io
to say, Walter Sawyer, Edward Wade. William Prj9x
James M'Cready, Richard toines, john Rodz.rs,
Aslber Marx, Benjamin Gomez, Samuel Milban ,
James E. Jennings, George Riker, and Jacob atxing, good 4nd lawful men of the city and county of
New-York, aforesaid, at which day came there as
well the said Goold Hoyt as the.said David Gelston
and Peter A. Schenck, by their respective attprnipA
Aforesaid, and the jurors of the jury, jnpaeled4-1

. OASES 1NTHE SUJPREME COURT.

70

try the said issue, being called, also came, and were
I818.
Gelston
Gonthen and theie; in due manner, chosen and sworn to
try the same issue ; and upon the trial of that issue
HMyL the counsel learned in the law for the said Goold
Hoyt, to maintain and prove the said issue on their
part, gave in evidence, that at the time of the seizure
of the said ship. American Eagle, by the said David
Geston and Peter A. Schenck, she -was in the actual,
full, and peaceable possession of the -said Gzoold
Hoyt, and that, on the acquittal of the said vessel in
the district court of the United States, for the district
of New-York, it was decreed that the said vessel should
be restored to the said Goold Hoyt, the claimant of
the said vessel, in the said district court: and for
that purpose the counsel of the said Goold Hoyt
gave in evidence the proceedings in the said district
court of the United States, by which it appeared that
a libel had been filed in the name of the United
States against the said ship American Eagle, in
'which it was, amon- other things, alleged, tl~at the
said ship had been fitted out and armed, and at-.
tempted to be fifted out and armed, and equipped
and furnished, with intent to be employed in the- ser,vice of Petion against Christophe, and in the service
o that part of the 'island of St. Domingo w lich was
then under the, government of Petion, agaihft that'
part of the said island of St; Domingo which 'was
then under the government of Christophe, contrary
*.

to the statute in such case made and provided; and
that the said Goold Hoyt had filed an answer to the
said libel, and a claim to the said vessel, in -which the
said Goold Hoyt had expressly denied the truth of

OF THE UNITED STATES.

07

I 8
'teallegations in the said libel; and it also appeared
-Vr~p
April,
of
month
the
in
-that
proceedings,
said
the
by
GeIsSOP
T.
one thousand eight hundred.and eleve , an application
had been made to the said district court% by the HoyR.
said Goold Hoyt, to have the said ship appraised, and tohave her delivered up to him. on giving security fdr
her appkaised value; and it also appeared, by the'
said proceedings, that appraisers had been appointedby,the said court;'and that they had appraised the-1aid
ship, her tackle, &c. at thirty-five thoupand dollars, and
that the said appraisement had been filed, and jhad not
been excepted to; and that the sureties offered by the,
said Goold Hovt. for -the appraised value of the said
ship, had been accepted by the said court; and it also
appeared, by the'said proceedings, that the said cause
had been tried before the said district court, and that the
said libel had been dismissed, anl that the said ship had
been decreed to be restored to the said claimant, anol
that a certificate of reasonable cause for the seizure of
the said vessel'had l'en denied. And the counsel of
the said Goold Hoyt, to maintain'and prove the said
issue, did give in evidence that the value of the said
phip, her tackle, apparel, and furniture, at the time of
her seizure as aforesaid, was one hundred thousand
dollars, and did also give in -evidence, that the said
Peter A. Schenck seized and took possession of'the
said ship by the written directions of the said David,
Gelston; but no other.proof was offered by the said
plaintiff, at that time, of any right qr title in the siid
plaintiff to the said vessel; and here the said plaintiff
rested his cause.

7

"CASES

IN THE SUPREMP COURT

Whereupon the counsel for the defendants did, then
18Mr
and there, insist, before: the said justice, on the behalf
G sib
y. 'of the said defendants, that the said several matters so
Ho~t. produced and given in evidence on the part of the
plaintiff as aforesaid, were insufficient, and ought no:
to be admitted or allowed as sufficient evidence to entitle the said plaintiff to a verdict; and the said counsel
for the defendants did, then and there, pray the said
justice to pronounce the said matters, so produced and
given in evidence for the said plaintiff, to be insuficient
to entitle the said plaintiff to a verdict in the said cause,
and tor nonsuit the said plaintiff; but to this the counsel
learned in the law, of the said plaintiff, objected, and
difd then and there insist before the said justice, thiat
the same were sufficient, and ought to be admitted and ali
16'ed to he suficient to entitle the said plaintiff to a
v'rdict; and the said justice did then and there declare
"id deliver his opinion to the jury aforesaid, that the
said several matters so produced, and giv n in evidenhce on the part of the said plaintiff, wdre sufficient to
efititde the said plaintiff to a verdict, and that he ought
not to be nonsulted: vhereupon the said counsel for thb
dfendants did, then and there, on the behalf of the
iaid defendants, except to the aforesaid opinion of tht
diidjuistice, and insisted that the said several matters,
i6 produced and given in evidence, were not sufficient
t6 eititle the Said plaintiff to a verdict, and'that he
ought to be nonguited.
After the said motion for a nonsuit had been retiied, and the opinion of the said justice' had been
excepted to as aforesaid, the counsel of the said

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Goold Hoyt, did, inthe progress of the' trial, give in

I$]&.

evidence, on the part of the said Goold Hoyt, that he Geston
purchased the said ship, of James Gillespie, who hac'
v.
purchased her of John R. Livingston and Isaac Cla.
Hoyts.
son, the owners thereof; and that in pursuance of
such purchase, by the plaiatiff, the said James Gillespie had delivered full and complete possession of
the said ship, her tackle, &c. to the said plaintiff, before
the taking-thereof by the defendants.
And the said motion for a nonsuit having been refused, and the opinion of the said justice accepted to
as aforesaid, the said counsel for the said, defendants
did, thereupon, state to the said jury, the nature and i
circumstances of the 'defendant's defence, and did
then and there offer to prove and give .iri
evidence,
by way of defence, or in mitigation or diminution of
damages, that the said ship. or vessel, called the Awerican Eagle, with her tackle, apparel, and furniture,
before the tenth day of July, in the yjar of our Lord
one thousand eight hundred and ten, to wit, on the
first day of July, in the year last aforesaid, at the
port of New-York, in the southern district of NewYork, to wit, at the city of New-York, in the county
of New-York, and at the 'first ward of the said-city,
-was attempted to be fitted out and armed, and w4s
fitted out and armed, aRd that the said five hundred
tons of stone ballast, one hundred hogshead ot wa-ter, one hundied and thirty barrels of salted provi"
sipns, and twenty hogsheads of ship-bread, were
procured for the equipment of the said veasel,, and
were then and there on board of the said vessel, as
a part of her said equipment, -With intent that the.
Vol. III.
-36

274
1818.
'm
Geo
Hoyt.-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
said ship or vessel, called the American Eagle, shonld
be employed in the service of that part of the island ot
St. Domingo which was then under the government of
Petion, to cruise and "commit hostilities upon the subof
jects, citizens, and property of that part of tim island
St. Domingo thich was- tnen under the government of
Christophe, contrary to the form of the statute in such
ease made and provided.*
And the said counsel of the, said defendants did,
then and there, offer to prove, and give in evidence,
by -way of defence, or in mitigation or diminution of
damages, that he, the said David Gelston was collector, and that he, the said Peter A. Schenck, was
surveyor df the customs, for the district ot the city
of NewL-York, on the tenth day of July, one thousand eight hundred and ten, and before that time,.
and. afterwards, continued to be collector and surveyor as aforesaid; and that they, the said David
Gelsion and Peter A. Schenck, as collector and surveyor as aforesaid, and, not otherwise, did, on the
said tenth day of July, in the year last aforesaid, at
the pQrt of New-York, in the southern district of
New-York, to wit, at the city of New-York, in the
county of New-York, 'and at the first ward of the
zid city, seize, take, and detain the' said ship or ves&elwith her tackle, apparel, and furniture, and the
said five hundred toos of stone'balfast, 6ne: hundred
hogsheads of.water, one hundred and thirty barrels
of salted provisions, and twenty hogsheads of shipbread, according to the 'form of the statute in such
aase made and provided, and by virtue of the power
avid authority vested in them by the constitution and

OF THE UNITED STATES.
taws of the United States, and for such cause as is
1815.
herein before stated.
"
, Gelaton
And the said counsel of the said defendants, did,
v.
ihen -and there, insist, before the said' justice, on the
Hoyt
behalf of the said defendants, that ft. said several
matters, so offered to be proved and given in etidence
on the part of the said deferidants as aforesaid, ought
to be admitted and allowed to be proved -and given in
evidence, in justification of the trespass" charged.
against the said defendants, or in mitigation or diminution of the damages claimed by the plaintiff ai aforesaid.
And the said counsel for the said deiendants, did,
then and there, pray the said justice to admit and
allow the said matters so offered to'be'provedand
given in evidence, to be proved and given in evi,'
dence in justification of the trespass -charged
'against the said defendants, 'or- in mitigation'or
diminution of the damages claimed by the plaintiff as aforesaid ; but to this the counsel learned in
the law, of the said plaintiff, objected, and did, then
that the
and there, insist, before the said justice
same ought not -to be admitted, or allowed to be
proved or given in evidence, iti justification of te
irespass charged against the said defendants,' aid4
that the same ought not to be admitted,or allowed
to be proved or given in evidence, -in mitigation or
diminution of the damages claimed by the plaitttii"
,s aforesaid, inasmuch as the counsel of the said
Goold Hoyt admitted, that the defendait!. had not
been influenced by any malicious motives in making
the said seizmre,. and that they had not aced vith

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.
1818.
G
Gelston
V.
Hoyt.

any view or design of oppressing or injuring tIe
plaintiff. And the said justice did$ then and there, declare and deliver his opinion, and did then and there
overrule the whole of the sid evidence, so offered to
be proved by the said defendants, and did declare it to
be inadmissible in justification of the trespass charged
against the said defendants; and after the admission so
made by the counsel of 'the said Goold Hoyt, as aforesaid, did declare and 'deliver his opinion, that the said
evidence ought not to be 'received in mitigation or diminution of the said damages, as the said admission precluded the said plaintiff from laiming any damages
against the defendants by way of punishment or smart
money, and that after such admission • the plaintiff
could recover only the, actual damages sistained, and
with that direction left the same to the said jury:
and the jury aforesaid, then and there gave their verdict for the said plaintiff for one hundred and seven
thousand three hundred and sixty-nine dollars and
forty-three cents 'daiaages : whereupon the said counsel for the said defendants, did, then and there, on
the behalf of the said defendants, except to the afore.
said opinion of the said justice, and insisted that the
said several maatters, so offered to be proved and given
in-evidence, ought to have been admitted and given
evidence in justification of the trespass charged against
the ,said deferndants, or in mitigation or diminution
of the damages claimed by the Plaintiff as Pfnrpsaid.
And inasmuch as neither the said several matters
so produced and given in evidence on the part of the
-said plaintifTl and by the tounel. of the said defen-

OF THE UNITED STATES,
dants objected to, as insufficient evidence to entitle 1811.
the said plaintiff to a verdict as aforesaid, nor the Geluton
said several matters"so offered to be proved and given
Y.
in evidence, on the part of the said defendants, in Hoyt.
justification of the trespass charged against the said
defendants, or in mitigation or diminuflon of the damaeres claimed by the plaintiff as aforesaid appear
by the rpord of the verdict aforesaid, tne said counsel for the said defendants did, then and there, propose their exceptions to the opinions and decisions
of the said justice, and requested him to put his seal
to this bill of exceptions, containing the said several
matters so produced and given in evidence on the
part of the said plaintiff as aforesaid, and the said several matters so offered to be proved and given in
evidence, on the part of the said defendants' as aforesaid, according to the form of the statute in such
c ase made and proi-ided. And thereupon the said
justice, at the request of the said, counsel for the said
defendants, did put his seal to this bill of exceptions,
on the said fifteenth day of November, in the year of
our Lord one thousand -eight hundred and fifteen,
pursuant to the, statute in such case made and provided.
If either party shall require the proceedings in Ae
district court to be set out mbre at length, then it is,
understaod,that such proceedings shall be engrafted in.
to the bill of exceptions, and form part.thereof.
(Signed).
AMBROSE SPENCER.
tL."S.]

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
The bill of exceptions being carried before the su-,
preme court of the state of New-York, the exception,
were disallowed by the court. The cause was then
carried to the court of errors of the state, 'where the
judgment of the supreme court of the state was affirmed
and the cause Was brought to this court in the manner
1hefore stated.
3farch 24th, T he .1torney General, (Mr. ,Rush,) for the plain1318.
Qilston
V.
HoY-t

181'o

tiffs in error, argued, 1. That the special matter offered in evidence by- the plaintiffs in error ought to
have been admitted as a defence to the action, or at
any rate, that it ought to have b-en, admitted. The
27th section of the act of 1793, contains, in general
terms, a.provision that it shall be lawful for any revenue officer to go on board of any vessel for purposes of
search an(, examination ; and if it appear that a breach
of any law has been committed, whereby a forfeiture
has been incurred, to make'a seizure. It has been the
vise policy of the law, by enactments and decisions
co-extensive with the range of public office, to throw
its shield over officers, while acting under fair and
onest convictions. Thus, under the English statutes,
no jaistice of the peace, ,or even constable, can be
suAd for any thing done officially who is not clothed
with some protection more than is allowed to ordinary defendants; some relaxation of the rules of pleading, or other immunities are extended to him. It is
the same With mayors, bailiffs, churchwardens, overseers, and a variety of other officers. So, also, excise
officers may always plead the general issue, and give
the special matter in evidence By stat. 24 Geo. IT.

OF THE UNkITED STATES.
no justice shall be sued for what he has done official.
ly until notice in writing served upon him a month Gelstoaz
beforehand; nor then, if he tender amends., It
v_
would be easy to multiply analogous examples. Hoyt,
Several acts of congress, passed- since that of June,
1794, ill-listrate the same legal printifle. By the
11th section of the embargo act of the 25th April,
1808, ch. 170. the collectors of the customs were authorised to detain any vessel ostensibly bound withStates, when.
cargo to some other port of the United
ever, in their opinions, there existed any intention to
violate or, evade any of the provisions of the acts laying an embargo, until the decision of the president
could be had upon the seizure. It has been repeat.edly determined, that it was sufficient, under this act,
for the collectors to have dcted with honest convictions; and that theabsence of probable- cause afforded, in itself, no grourid to a claim for damages.a So,
also, in the law just passed, to preserve more 'effectually our neutral relations, a principle closely analogous
has been introduced.b It is provided by the act of the
24th February, 1807, ch. 74. "That when any prosechtion shall be commenced- on account of the seizure of any ship or vessel, goods, wares, or merchan-.
dise, made by any collector or other offrer under aay
act of congress authorizing such seizure, and judg._
ment shall be given for the claimant or claimants, if
it shall appear to the court before whom such prosea Cronell el al. v.

M'Fadon, 8

Cranch, 94; "Otifr v. Watirr,

Cranch, 337, Ois v. Walter. 2 Wheat.'18.
b Act of March, 3d. 1817. ch. 58.

9

so

OASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

cution shall be tried, 'that there was a reasonable
court shall cause a proper
Gsten cause of seizure, the said
certificate or entry to be made thereot ; aud in such
G.
118.

Hoyt.

case the claimant or claimants shall not be entitled
to costs, nor shall the person who made the seizure ;
or the prosecutor, be liable to action, suit, cw judgment, on account qf such seizure or prosecution:
provided, that the ship or vessel, goods, -wares, or
merchandise, be, after the judgmient, forthwith returned to the claimant or claimants." Here it appears,
-indeed, that if a certificate be granted, it operates as an absolute bar to an action. But it does
not follow, that the refusal of a certificate is to close'
the ear of a court and jury te all the real merits. -It
will, perhaps, be said, that the judgment of the diO
trict court restoring the vessel, and refusing the certificafe,.is conclusive ; that it was a court of compelent jurisdiction, and that, therefore, the matter which.
it adjudicated could not be reheard, or its propriety
examined into collaterally, in any other court. We
are aware of the decisions of this court upon this
point, and of the English dcisions upon the conclusiveness of judgments, from that in Fernandez v. De
Acosta~a in the time of Lord Mansfield, to the more
xerwet cases. Those, however, who have scrutinized
this doctrine see plainly that, in latter times at least,
though it be the law, its inconveniences appear to be
sometimes felt, and its wisdom perhaps sometimes
doubted. It is an intrinsic objection to the doctrine,
that wfile it professes to look with a single eye to
the binding 'nature of the judgment, turnino away
Parlonlrt. 178. 3ct ed.

OF THE UNITED STATES.'
from the maerits, yet, in point of fact,.the merits do, in
• view; so..Gelstoi
difficult it is to thrustmost of the cases, get into
them back in discussions where justice only is sought.
Already has the doctrine disappeared from the codes
of some of the leading states in the tinion; from that
of Pennsylvania by a positive statute, from that, of
New-York by a judicial decision.a In how many
more of the states it his been -broken down is not
kn~wn, but it is not supposed to be a doctrine entitled to any peculiar favour in this court, But the
difference between a sentence of condemnation and
of acquittal is material. An acquittal does not ascert,
tain fact, A conviction does, Its character is posilive. The former -may have arisen from want. of
evidence, the latter must always rest upon some
foundation of- proof. A conviction, says Buller, is
evidence of the fact; but tf6e reverse of it i's not
shown by an acquittal.b Even in a common action for
;assault and battery, the plaintiff cannot rely upon
g conviction upon an indictment for the same assi.ult.c
The consequence is, that the defendant may defend
himself against thd suit by going into the original
facts. The plaintiffs in error asked no idre below.
So also, to.support an action for malicious prosecu.tion, malace in the defendant, and want of probable
r ause, must both concur.d If, in this action, an acqatttal ha3 bae 1had upon the, indictment, the plaintiff
anay still lay before the jury the evidence which was
a Vandenheuvel v. The United Ins. Com. 2 Johns. Cas. 45g6 N. P. 245
c.Jones v. White, 1-$trango ,68.
d Bull.N.P. 14
VoL. II.
37

1818.

V.
HoYt

8%CASES"
18I.

heard on the indictment, viz. all the facts and cirto show that the prosecution was mali.
cious.a This surely opens-to the defendant the corresponding right of going into the original facts on
his side. Every principle of just reasoning would
seem, then, to lead to the conclusion, -that the special
matter ought to have gone before the jury. If it did
n6t justify the seizure and detention, it might have
served to mitigate thedamagep. The admission of
the plaintiff's counsel, that the defendants below were
not actuated by any malicious or vindictive motive,
was not tantamount to hearing all the special matter, since it might, and no doubt wduld, have-established in the minds of the jury a far stronger claim to
mitigation than ihe mere absence of malice. The
great end, therefore, of every law-suit has been over.
Justice has not been done. Unless the
looked.
judgments belowfbe abrogated, the defendants below,
acting as innocent men,'and as vigilant and meritorious public officers, are in danger of being crushed un-der a load of damages which could scarcely have been
made more heavy it ieveiied at conduct marked by
the most undisputed and malignant guilt.-2. The
plaintiff below, by demurring to the second plea, was
precluded from all righlt of recovery; and that plea
contains .matter, which the demurrer itself admits,
and which entitled the defendants below to iudg..
A demurrer admits all facts that are suffi,nent.
ciently pleaded. What, then, are the facts set forth
in this plea? Plainly these: that the American
"Fagle was fitted out and equipped with intent that
a Bull, . P. 14.

Scumstances

GelstQn
V1.
-Ry&.

IN THE SUPREME COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES.
s9he should be employed in the service

of a foreigh

prince or state, to wit, of that
. part of St. Domningo
governed by Petion, to cruise against another foreign
prince or state, viz. against that part of St. Domingo governed b'y Christophe; that this was contrary to
the act of the 5th June, 1794, and that the, sei
zure thereupon took place under orders from the
president. Is not the cage of the defendants below,
after these admissions, completely made out? Does
it lie with the plaintiff to say that St. Domingo was
not a state, or Christophe aprince? Does not the
plea affirm both? Does not the demurrer admit both?
What besides was it'the object of the plea to affirm?
What else did the -demurrer intend to admit? The
former sets them forth as fundamental facts. The
latter does not deny, but admits them.-S. In contending that, within the true, scope and intention of
the act of the 5th of June, 1794, both Petion and
Christ ophe were to be considered foreign princes,
we do not mean to depart from the reverence due to
the former decisions of this court in Rose v. Himelya
but think that there are solid grounds for distinguishing the present case from that decision. It
is important that the different branches of the gov&nment should look upon foreign nations with the
same eyes, and subject them to the same rules of
treatment. The decision in Rose v. Himely, took
place in February, 1808. At that epoch, the act of
congress specifically, cutting off intercourse with St.
'Domingo, and treating it as a depcndency of France,
was in full force.
For the judiciary to have pro-

,a4 C'ranch,241.272.

1818.
Geisti
Galston
v:
Hoyt.

84,

,AsES IN ThE SU1 REME COURT

18f§. nounced this island an independent state, whilst tfie
Ge letislature considered itas a colony, would have
disturbed the harmony of the different parts of the
v.
IKot. governing poI ei. It would not be e~sy td foresee
the mischiefs of such a conflict of authority and opi'nion. Look to the South American provinces at this
moment. Spain claims them as her, lawful dominion:
no power in turope has acknoledged their independence': yet, in some of them, the authority of
the once mother country is wholly at an end. Now,
what embarrassments might not result, if, alter the
Januletter of the secretary of state of the 19th of
should
courts
our
ary, 1816, to the Spanish minister$
pronounce Buenos Ayres, for example, to be rightfully
3n its full colonial dependence upon Spain. Vattel's
-thority upon this subject. is decisive, According t6
him, we are to look to the state of things de facto
-taking each, party to be in the right.a The rule Is,
t6
'down in Rose-v. Himely, tha't such language was
been
have
may
,
court
be addressed to, sove'reigns, not
"applicable to the condition in 'vhich St. Domingo
it
then was. It cannot, however, be* conceded, that
pro'is of constant and universal application. The
which,
oi
things,
of
state
gress of events may create a
as they impress their c'onvictions 'upon mankind, courts
too *ill take notice. The Neikerlands waged a wat
of more thani 'half a century with Spain. 'Spain nevet
the
'ceased to call it a rebellion-. But 'what were
Europej,
protestant
sympathies, what the conduct of
'towards them. duying the principal part of the time?
What -that of Engianu, -rnparticular, who ai not
Vattel, L, 3 ch. S'S. 18.

OF THE UNITED STATES,
lbruple to form 'treaties with them, while Spaln was 181ti
still denouncing them as heretics, and i.sur'gents'? iGelsto
-,The, fact being now palpable to the world, that St.
v.
.Domingo is independent of all conriexion with- Fran"e,
ol
:repudiating her authority) and .sprning, her powei'
'this positive state of independence de facto'may at
'length well be taken to stand in the place of a formol.
.acknowledgmeht of it by governments: and if courts
,1f justice are to wait until France relinquishes her
caim, that day may. be indefinite indeed. The act.
of congress, 'which specifically interdicted intercourse
with St. Domingo, onsidered as a colony of France;
expired in April, 1808. It was-in full'force-at the
time of the decision in Rose, v..Himely, which con'stitutes another marked distinction between that case
and the present. As to the condemnations which it
'may be alleged took place under the general non-in
tercourse laws passed afterivards, of 4essels coming,
ftom St. Domingo, upon the footing of its belbnging
to France, no inference 'against, the argument can be
hence deduced. *In the first place, those laws left it
wholly indefinite as to What' colonies did or did not
belong 'to France. They were couched in general
terms only. .They prohibited all intercourse -with
Gr-at Britain and France, and' their dependencies,
without uhdertaking to designbte 'in' any case what
the dependencies of either were. In the next place
as far as is known, it appears that the government
'remitted the forfeitures in all such gases of condemnation, thereby minifqsting its opinion, if Qny infe,fence is to be drawn, that time, and the progressof
,e-vbnts, had-at length taken tfiis.'island out of-.-the trat

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1918.
.
Gelston,
V.
-Hoyt.

spirit and meaning of these general laws; and that,
as the nations of Europe were trading with it as an
States
independent island, the citizens of the United
4 A lead.
same.the
do,
to
might fairly be permitted
the
ing object of the act of 1794, was, to preserve
peace as well as neutrality of'the United States. Thus,
then, although St. Domingo might not be a sovereign
nestate to all intents and purposes, (which it is not
independent,
cessary to contend,) it was sufficiently
the
whether as to commerce or power, to fall within
law
mischiefs, and be embraced by the penalties, of the
in questioi.
Mr. Ho'ffman, and Mr. D. B. Ogden, for the deto
fendant in error. 1 This court is not competent
section
25th
the
under
take cognizance of this cause,
has
of the judiciary act of 1789, cb. 20. The court
or
uppellate jurisdiction, only from the final judgment
of the
decree of the highest 6ourt of law or equity
jurisdiction
this
13ut
state in certain specified cases.
court of
cannot he here exercised, because the highest
whom
law and equity of the state of New-Yoik, to
possession
in
longer
no
is
the writ of error is directed,
judgof the cause, but has remitted the record and
the
whom
to
ment to the supreme court of the state,
The
writ of error is not, and cannot be directed.
is
record
the
which
under
agreement of the parties
be
to
question
now before this court, reserves this
be reargued. It does not determine the retow to
have
gular and vtlid, but only that the transcript shall
error.
of
-writ
the
to
the same effect as if annexed
But even supposing the cause could be re-examined

OF THE UNITED STATES
upon a return to the writ of error by the supreme
court of the state, the main foundation of appellate
jurisdiction in this court is wanting. The judgment
of the state court does not decide against the title,
right, privilege, or exemption set -up by thE defendants below, under the act of congress of 1794, ch. 50%
On the contrary the state court has refused to give*
any construction whatever to the act of 1794, and to
decide whether, under the facts of the case, it did
or did not afford the defendants below, a legal defence
to the action ; because, the parties defendant, having
declined to argue the demurrer in the supreme court,
the court of 6rrors refused, upon grounds of state'law
and state practice, to hear them in that coult.A Partties litigant are bound to exercise their rights, aecording to the law and practice of the forum where
they attempt to assert them., If they do not assert
them according to the rules prescribed by the lex fori,
a decision against the party is not a decision against
the right set up by him; but only a decision that he
has not claimed that right according to the local law
and practice.-2. Ifhowever, the couft should beof
opinion, that the cause is regularly before it, then
we contend, that the testimony dffered by the defend-n
ants below, upon the trial at nisi prius, and which
was over-ruled by the judge, was properly -excluded,
They did not offer any evidence to show, that the
vessel had been, or was intended to be engaged in any.
illegal trade or employment. The only law to which
es For these grounds reo the this cause in the court of errors.
qpiqion of Chancellor Kr. in 13 Johns. Rep. 576.

481S.
GelstotR
v.
I-oyt%

CASES. IN.THE SUPREME COURT
the testimony offered could have any reference, is,
J8181
Gt
an act of congress, which was passed June, 1794,
Gelstovi
V. ' entitled "an act, in addition to an act, for the punishment of certain crimes against the United States,"
]0oYt
made perpetal by a subsequent act. By the third
section of the first mentioned act, it is enacted, "that
if any person shall, -within any of the ports, harbours,
bays, rivers, or other waters of the United States, fit
'but, and arm or attempt to fit out and arm, or procureto be fitted out and armed, 'or shall knowingly be con'cerned in the furnishing, fitting out and arming, of
any ship or vessel, with intent that such ship or vessel shall be employed in the service of any foicign
prince ors-fnte, to cruise or commit hostilities upon the
subjects, citizens, or property of any otherforeign rince
or state, with whom the United States are at
peace, &c. every such ship or vessel, with her tackle.
apparel, and furniture, together with all materials,
arms, ammunition, and stores which may have been
pro'cured for the building and equipment thereof,
shall be forfeited, one half to any person who shall
giie infoimation of- the offence, and the other half
The detendto the use oft he United States."
ants below merely offered to prbve that the
ship was fitted out, -with intent that she 'should
be employed, in the service of that part of the island
of St. Domingo, wlich was then under the government of Petion, to cruise and commit hostilities uv.,
on the subjeets,.citizens, and property of that part of
the island of St. Domingo which was then under
the government' of Christophe ;" but did not offer tQ
zhow that either of these parts of the island va; 4

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ioreign state, or that either Petion or Christophe. 1818.
were foreign princes, with whom the United States
SGelon
were at peace. And even if they had proved these
v.
facts,'the evidence would have been perfectly immk- Hoyt.
terial and irrelevant: because, in the words of this
court, "It is for governments to decide whethei they
will consider St. Domingo , as an independent nation,
and until such decision shall be made, or France
shall relinquish her claim, courts of justice must
consider the ancient state of things as remaining unaltered, and the sovereign power of France ovrdr that
colony as still subsisting."a The same principal has
also been recognised by the highest British tribunals, both as applicable t6 the case of St. Domingo, and to other revolutions of states not re
cognised by the government of the country where
the tribunal is' sitting that is required to take
notice of them.b- What would be the absurd con,sequences of leaving each tribunal tq settle this question according to the information it might possess I
Nothing can be more opposite and irreconcileable
than the views given' of the situation of St. Doxningo by different writers and travellers. How then
should a court decide which has no other sources ,of
information 1 The government is informed' by its
diplomatic agents. It has a view of the.whole ground,
and can judge what considerations ought to inguence
the decision. of this question of complicated pq1icy.
Our foreign. relations are, by necessary, implicatior
a Rose v. Himely,4 Oran.h, 292.

-

b 1 .Edwards, 1. and Appendix, G. The city of Bor"G V
The Bank 'of Englandi 9 1es. $47.

VoW. III.

-

1

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
,-i_,t_

Gelstoa

r.
Htoyt.

delegated to congress and the executive, by the con'istitution. Neither Petion nor Christophe. have ever
had any secure, firm possession of the sovereignty irt
St. Domingo. They have not only been contending
with each other, but they have had rivals who have
attempted to establish adverse claims to different
parts of the island by the sword. The defendants
below have themselves theted in their official conduct
on these principles. In the year 1809, they seized
and prosecuted in the district court, the James and
the Lynx, two vessels which had come with cargoes
from St. Domingo to New-York, contrary to the
provisions of the non intercourse acts, forbidding
all commercial intercourse between the United
States and Great Britain, France, and their depcndencies,. In these cases they consider St. Domingo
as a colony of France ; and whilst the suits were depending, the ship, now in controversy, was seized by
them, under an allegation that she was intended for
the service of art independent state, which independent state was the same St. domingo they had just
before considered, as a French dependency.- . The
testimony 9ffered by the defendants below could'not
be admitted, because the district court was the proper tribunal to determine -whether the vessel in question was or was not liabIe to seizure and forfeiture
for the causes alleged. It having been decided in
that court that she was so liable, its judgment is conelusive, and' preclude's every' tribunal, unless upon
deciappeal, 'from re-ekamining the grounds of the
innumerable,
are
point
this
don. The authorities on,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
rand flowing in a uniform current. a As to foreign
sentence
a
that
sentences, it is -settled in this 'court
Geltort
V
of condemnation, by a competent court, having jurisdiction over the subject matter of its judgment, is Holt.
cunclusive as to the title of the thing claimed under
it.b And that the sentence of a .prize court, cundemning a vessel for breach of a blockade; is conclusive evidence of the fact as between the insurer, and
But what is still more pertinent to the
insured.c
present case, the court has deteimined that the ques.
tion, under a seizure for a breach of the laws of the
United States, whether a forfeiture has been actually
incurred, belongs exclusively to the courts of the
United States, and it depends upon their final decree.
whether the seizure is to be deemed rightful or tor.
tious.d
The distinctiofi which 'has' been suggested
between the conclusiveness of condemnations and of
acquittals, has been considered in several of the authorities, and iLis now perfectly settledthat no such dis-tinction exists. A condemnation may be founded
-on the oath of the seizing party; and though by
a Vanderheuval v. The (3d London ed.) 78, 79. and
United Ins. Co. 2 Johns Cds. the cases here citeg in a note.
'127, and the autboritics there Cooke v. Stholl, 5 T. R. 255.
cited. The authorities col- Lane v. Degburgh, Bllc"is
lected in the same case, 2 N. P. 244. Opinion of Mr.
Caines' Cases in Error, 217, Justice JouNsoN in Rose v;
-and by Mr. Chief Ju stice (now Himely, in the circuit court,
Chancellor) KENT, iq his opi- 4 Cranch, 508. Appendix,
,i6n in Ludlow v. Dale, Id. Note (C.) i2 Vi. Abr. 95,
217. "Wheaton on Capt. 274, Ev. (A. c. 22.)
278. Peake'sLaw of.Evidence.
b Rosev. Himely, 4 Cranch, 241.
a Croudson et al. v. Leonard, 4 Cranch, 434.
d Slocum v. Mayberry, 2 Wheat. 4.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

M10.
celstou

VP

)iO.Y

the laws' of the United States, he cannot share in the
forfeiture if he becomes a witness, still he is interested to protect himself -by a condemnation. Shall,
then, a condemnation founded on such testimony be
conclusive, and an acquittal not? The defendants,
themselves, applied for time to plead until the district
court should decide,,on the ground that its decision
would be conclusive.a---4 . The testimony offered by
the defendants below cbuld not be admitted in mitigation of damages. Because, if admitted, it would
only be to show that there was reasonable cause for
the seizure,' and, consequently, that the defendants
acted withoift malice, or any intention to oppress the
plaintiff bellow. - But the question whether there was
-or
was not reasonable cause of seizure, is a question
which is expressly submitted to the disirict court by
the statiltes of the United States,b and over which
this court has declared the district court had exclu.
of reasonable cause
sive cognizance, A certificat
for the seizure having been denied by the district
court, every other tribunal is as much precluded, except on appeal, from examining whethei there
was or was not reasonable cause for the seizure, as
they are froix examining whether there was or was
nbt sufficient cause of forfeiture. The plaintiff below
•adiiitted upon the trial, that the defendants had not
been influenced by any malicious motives in making.
-the "sezure, and that they had not acted with any
view or design of oppressing or injuring the plaintiff.
And the judge who tril the cause at msi priu

.a See 8 oW. Rqi. 119.
.b Act of the 24li Fob. i807, cb. 7-,

OF THE UNITED STATES.,
charged the jury that this afImission precluded9th

28
1(8

plaintiff from claiming vindictive damages, and the
Gelaton
jury rendered a verdict only for the actual damag es,
v.
as proved by uncontradicted testimony. Where a cerHoyt
tificate of reasonable cause is refused, or not gran,
ted, a party making an illegal seizure, can" be in no
'better state than he would be, if te law had made
no provision respecting a certificate. It is well settled that probable cause is no justification of an ile
.gal seizure,- unless it be made a justification, by sta
lute. Nor can evidence of probable caxise be re"
,ceived, td mitigate the damages in cases where ther
is a disclaimer as 'to e -ery -thina but actual damages;
For whether there was or was not malice or probao
hle cause, the actual damages sustained must be rst
covered for an illegal seizure, or for any other tres
'pass, if -any thing whatever is recovered.-5. TIhe
second and third pleas of the defen'dant below gre'
manifestly bad on general demurrer. First. P e
tion and Christophe were not foreign princes, nor
their territories foreign states, and consequently a
seizure for fitting out the vessel to be employed iii
their service could not be justified.a Secondly. The
president had no authority by.law to order the -seiz-.
ure. The 7th section of the act of 1794, does nt
apply to thit cause. If it did, the president's order
can only be a justification when applied to an -illegal
Act; If no illegal act be proved, there can be nQ
justification under the order. Were it otherwise, the
president would be a despot. The 7th section 'Of
h See tho authorities citpd ante, p. 289,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
Gelston
V.
Hot.

~

the act provides, "that in every case in whicl a vessel shall be fitted out or-armed, or attempted -so to be
fitted out or armed, or in which the force of any vessel
of war, cruiser, or other armed vessel, shall be increased or augmented, or in which any military expedition
or enterprise shall be begun or set on foot, contrary
to the prohibitions and provisions of this act; and in
every case of the capture of a ship or vessel within
the jurisdiction or-protection of the Unitcd. States, as
proabove defined, and in every case in which any
States,
cess issuing out of any court of thd United
pershall be disobeyed or resisted by any persor or
cruiser,
war,
of
vessel
sons having the custody of any
or other armed vessel, of any fqreign prince .or statp
or of the subjects or citizens of such priace or state
in every such case, it shall be lawful for the president
of the United States, or such other person as he shall
have evapowvered for that purpose, to employ such
part of the lamai or naval forces of the United States,
or of the militia thereoft.as shall be judged necessary,
for the purpose of takin6g possession 9 f, and detaining
any such ship or vessel,' yith her prize or prizes, if
any; in order to the execution of the prohibitions and
penalties of this act, and to the restoring such prize
or prizes, in the cases in which restoration shall have
been adjudged, and .also for the purpose of preventing the carrying on of any such expedition or enterprise, from the territories of the United States, against
or
the territories or d minions of a foreign prince
state with whom the United States are at peace."
Under this provision; the, president could not
Ha
authorize the defendants below to seize.

OFTHIE UNI TEDTAT

1818.,005

could only employ the army and Aavy, or the
militia, for that purpose. He couid only authdrize
an arrezt or detainment, not a seizure, which is a Gelston
V.
taking and carrying away. He could )nly au
Hoyt.
thoriz*e a taking possession of and detaining the
vessel, in order to the execution of the penalties and
prohibitions of the act. rhe vessel migl. have been
libelled, and taken into custody of the officers of
the court ; but the defendants below have not averred themselves to be revenue- officers, and as such, authorized to seize by the act of 1790, ch. 153. Thirdly. The 2d plea is not a nar in'the court where it was
pleaded. What could the plaintiff below have -replied
to this plea ? That there was no forfeiture, as alleged ?
But the state court has no authority to try the question of forfeiture under the laws of the United
States. The- courts of the United States have exclusive jurisdiction of that question, and their decision.
is final and conclusive upon every other tribunal.' - 0 r
suppose that the plaintifi had replied, that Petion and
Christbphe were not independtnt princes., No municipal court whatever has power to determine that
question. The executive government is alone competent to recognise new states arising in the world.,
and it would be extremely inconvenient and embarrassinz in this age of revolutions, for courts and juries
to interfere in the decision of a question of such delicate and complicated policy, depending upon a va..
riety of facts which they cannot know, and of considerations which they cannot notice. Again; if-the
plaintiff had replied that the president had given no
such instructions as mentioned in the plea, the repli-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
'1818.
Grelstda
°' "
T,
BOXlt

cation would have been immaterial, and a ground of
Fourthly, Neither of the pleas aver,
demurrer.
but only that it
that thes ship was actually forfeited,
an equivawas " eized as forfeited," which is not
lent averment. The case of Wilkins v. DespardC
where a similar plea was pleaded, is distinguishable.
That was a seizure under the British navigation act,
of the
12 Car. II. ch. 18. s. 1. by which the legality
be
might
seizure, and the question of foifeiture itself
tried in any court -of record in the British dominions,
the plea
"and, consequently, in the court itself; where
act of
the
of
,was pleaded. Fifthly, The 3d section
punbe
to
1794, after specifying the offences meant
offen.dished,' provides, that " every such person so
of a
guilty
adjudged
ing shall, ',upon conviction, be
imprisonand
high misdemeanour, and shall be fined
the conwhich
in
court
the
of
ed af the discretion
to be imposed
'viction' shall be. had, so that the fine
hall in no case be more than five thousand dollars,
three
and the term of imp:isonment shall not exceed
tackle, ap.
ybars; and every suAh' ship or vessel, her
arms,
materials,
all
with
parel, and furniture, together
probeen
have
ammunition, and stores, which may
shall
cured fo'r the building and equipment thereof,
person who
,be forfeited, one half to the use of any
the other
and
offence,
'shall give information of the
just
every
By
half to the use of the United States."
indictment
rule of construction, the proceeding by
precede
must
conviction,
his
and
against the offender,
g 5 T.R. 112.

OF THE UNITED STATE.'
the suit in rem, and the forfeiture of the- vessel. The 1816.
phraseology of the act is different from all the other, Galgim,
statutes authorizing seizures and creating forfeitures.
v
By those statutes, the revenue officers have power to Hoyt.
seize and proceed in rem against the thing seized as
forfeited, independent of any criminal proceeding
against the offending individual. By this act, the, forfeiture of the thing is made- to depend upon the convictionof the person, and the president alone has power
to seize, and -that only as'a precautionary measure to
prevent an intended violation of the laws.
Sizt1
The 3d plea is particularly defective, in oinitting to
state, as is done in the 2d plea, what princes or foreign
states were intended- it merely alleges, that the vessel was fitted out with intent to be "emplobyed in the ser
vice of some foreign state, to commit hostilities upon the
subjects of anotlierforeign state,. with which the United
States *ere' then at peace." It is a sacred rule of
pleading, that where an offence is charged or a 'forfeiture is claimed, the facts must be so alleged as that
the court may judge whether Uwj~e has been an offence
committed or forfeiture incurrea.a To so vague an allegation as this, it would be impossible for the plaintilT
below to reply.
Mr. Baldwin, for the plaintiffs in error, in reply,
insisted on the validity of the special'pleas.. The defendants below were not bound to answer the cona Coin. Dig. tit. Action .on v. Robe. 2 Slrange, 999. 2:
Stat. (A. 3.) pl. 1. Davy v. Saund. 379.
Radford v.
Baker, 4 .Burr. 2471. Rex M'Intosh, S T. R. 636.
VOL. III.
39

SCASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT

version, because the trespJass' was complete withoat
it. - This defect, if any, ought to have been newly asGeiston
signed by the plaintiff below, if he intended to hve adV.
Hoyt." vantage of it.a The forfeiture was .well pleaded.
The offence being committed, the forfeiture instantly
attaehes.b The plea here states, that the ship was
seized "as forfeited," in the same ,manner with that
which was held good in Wilkins v. Despard, and it
alleges the offence in the words. of the statute. An
allegation that the seizure was made for a violation
of the law, that the thing sei6zed *as taken as forfeited, is equivalent to' an allegation that it was actually~forfeited. Nor was it necessary to aver that the
seizure was made by a military or naval force. The
7th section of the act of 1794, evidently contemplates
the employment of that description of force, only
when, in the opinion of the Dresident, it might become
necessary to carry into effect the law. In other cases
the seizure might be made by the ordtinary means of the
revenue officer.. Nor is a conviction , on an indictment or informatioin personam, necessary before
None
the proceedings in rem. are commenced.
of the objections to the special pleas are availble orr
general demurrer. The plaintiff below should have
replied, -that Petion and Christophe were not independent princes or states, and so have had that question tried as a question of fact. The existence of
new states in the world may commence in various
ipodes. First Colonies may become independent
1618.

''

a Taylor v. Cole3 T. R. 292.
4.ThaM]Iars, 8.CranIh,417..

e 5 T. R. 112

OF THE UNITED STATES.
of the parent state by means, of force, and in acqui1818.
escence in the effects of that force on the part of the GeistoR
mother country for a sufficient length of time, to in
dicate a relinquisbment of all hopes of recovering X1167
possession of'the dominion. The pride of princes
and nations will not always permit them o'penly and
expresAly to recognise the independence of rebellious
subjects, until long after they have relinauished all
hope of subduing them. When the case of Rose v.
Himely was determined, a war de facto existed between France and St. Domingo ; and the former, so
far from relinquishing her sovereignty over the latter,
was actually attempting to assert it by force of arias.
A long period of time has since elapsed, and-the attempt has not been -renewed. The people of the isl.
and have settled down under governments, the conduct of which is a pledge of their stability, and whose
policy and institutions would .do ,honour to more civilized and ancient communities. Secondly. The existence of new states may -be recognised by the supreme power of every country, in whose courts of
justice the question of their independence may arise,
and that even"while the civil war still rages between
the new people. and its former sovereign. ,When thus
recognised by the legislative or executive authority
of other countries, the tribunals of those countries
are bound to take notice of their existence as independeat states. This recognition may be made in
various modes : by treaty; by a legislative act ; by an
executive proclamation; by sending to, or receiving
from the new state, a public minister or other diplomatic agent. Thirdly. Their independence may also

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
Is.' be recognized, by a treaty of cession from the parent
4-0-~
4G]SItoli
V.

Eoy,

country.

This treaty, may not have become a public, historical fact, of which courts of justice will take

notice without other evidence than its pwn notoriety.
It may be deposited in the archives of a foreign, or
of our own government. It may require to be proved
'in the same manner .as foreign written laws are proved. In any -of these views, the question as to the
independence of St. Domingo is a question of facti
-to be tried by the jury, and, consequently, the plaintiff ought to have replied,' that Petion and Christophe
were not independent princes or states, as alleged in
the defendants' pleas. The instruction of the presi,dent, in this very case, implies that he recognised the
independence of the island ; -the instruction could
Uot otherwise have been legally given. As to the
conclusiveness-bf the decree of restitution in the dis'rict court, it is founded on" principles which push
the doctrine of the conclusiveness of sentences, to a
degree of extravagance irreconcileable with reason
and common sense. That every sentence of a court
lhaving jurisdiction of the subject matter, so long as
it remains unreversed by the appellate tribunal, is
-conclusive as -to the title of the thing claimed under
.it', is conceded. But, according to the jurisprudence
of the state of New-York, the, sentences of foreign
,courts of admiralty 'are held not to be conclusive as
-Io other persons than those claiminr titld to the proyerty;& and the- conclusiveness of the sentences of
a Vabdonheuverlv. The United Ins. Co. 2 Caues' Cas.
2. 45 L
E932. a. C.]3 Jv ass-.] ff,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
.
-domestic courts of peculiar and exclusive jurisdctio1
Geiston
sup1tut
depends upon precisely the same principle.
Y.
posing a sentence of condemnation to.be conclusive,
Hoyt
for all purposes, and against all persons; it does
mot follow that a sentence of' restitution ought
to have the same effecf. A judgment of acquittal
is of -a negative quality merely. and ascertains no
precise facts.a It only shows that sufficient evidence
did not appear to the court to authorize a condemnation. Why is a decree of'condemnation held to be
conclusive? Because it is a basis of the title to the
thing condemned. But an acquittal forms no part of
the title to the thing acquitted, which is restored to
the former proprietpr, who holds it by the same title
as-before. The case, said to have been decided'before
Baron Price, in the year 1716,b is not pertinent, The
elementary writers d9 not consider this.as.an adjudged
point in any of the cases; and their' authority, which
-s of great weight, makes'a distintinction, founded in
reason and the nature of things, between a sentence of
condemnation and a sentence of acquittal.c All the authorities confine the conclusiveness of the res judcatz
to parties and privies. The defendants below were
neither. Mr. Evans, in commenting upon the decision
of Baron Price, reported in Viner, says that, "upon
c Buller's N. P. 245. Peake's Law of Ev. 48.
.jaw Tracts, 742.

b 12 Vin. Abr. 95.
c Peake'sLaw of Er. 48.
2 Evan's Pothier,354-

1 Harge.

"v.
(A. b. 22.)
Phillips on Evido 228, 229.

IN

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

principle, I should conceive that the opposite determination would be more correct, as such an acquittal
""'
.so wolId be warranted upon the mere negative ground,
Hoyt. thatthe crown had not adduced sufficient eyidence to
support the seizure; and an individual, having a collateral interest in supporting the legality of the seizure, is
not a concurrent party with the crown in supporting
the condemnation, and asserting the claim of property
on the one side, in the same manner as every person
having an interest in opposing such condemnation, is
in contemplation of law a sufficient party on the other.a So, in this case, the defendants below were not
concurrent parties with the United States in supporting
the condempation. It does not appear that the defendants -were informer's, and so entitled to one half the forfeiture ; the prosecution -was carried on in the name of
the government and by its law officers; the defendfrom
ants had no control Over it, and could not appeal
the decision of the district court. They 'ought not,
therefore, to be concluded by it.
1818.

Eb'. !3.

The cause 'was again argued at the present term,
by Mr.
by Mr. Baldwin for the plaintiffs in error,'and
in- erD. B. Ogden and by Mr. Jones for the defendant
ror.

Mr. Justice STonY deliyered the opinion of the.
court of
Feb. i7th. tourt. This is a writ of error to the highest
law of the state of New-York; and the questions
which are re-examinable upon the record in this

1%2 Eans' Pothier, lb.

OFTIIE UNITED STATES.

40o

1818.
court .are such only as come within the purview of the
Gelaton
25th sectioh of the judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20.
.
But-a preliminary question. bas been,made, which
Meyt.
must be discussed before proceeding to consider the
merits of the cause.
It is contended that the Irecord is not, and cannot
be brought, before this court.
By the judicial system of' the state bf New-York;
the decisions of their supreme court are revised and
2
5th
.corrected in a court of errors; after which the record Underthe
section of the
act
judiciary
judgment
the
where
courl,
is returned to the supreme
.
of 17891 ch. $0
•
of
n
of
er
as corrected is entered, and where the record • remains. for from thi,
In this* case the writ of error was received by thecourt may be
directed toany
court of errors, after the record had been transmitted state
court i
which the re
to the supreme court whose judgment was affirmed.
cord and judg
It is contended that, the record being no longer mment in the
be
the court of the last resort in the state, can, by no pro-found.
cess, be removed into this court.
The judiciary act, allows the party who thinks him"
self aggrieved by the decision of any inferior court,
five years, within which he may sue out his writ -of er.
ror, and bring his cause into this court. The same rule
applies to judgments and decrees of a state court, in
cases within the jurisdiction of this court. As the constitutional jurisdiction of the courts of the union cannot be affected by any regulation which a state may
make of its owu judicial system, the only inquiry will
be, whether the judiciary act has been so framed as to
etmbrace this case.
The words of the act are, "that a final judgment
br decree in any suit in the highest court of law or

CASES- IN THE SUPREME COURT

04
1I51.
e.h
Hoyt.

eqUiIty of a state in which a decision could be had,
where is drawn in question," &c. "may be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the supreme court of
the United States upon a writ of error, the citation
being signed," ' &c. The act does not prescribe the
tribunal to which the writ of error shall be directed.
It must be directed either to that tribunal which car?
execute'it; to that in which the record and judgment to be examined are deposited, or to that whose
judgment is to be examined, although from its structure it may have been rendered incapable of performing the act required by the writ. Since the low requires a thing to be done, and gives the writ of error,
as the means by which it is to be done, without prescribing in this particular the manner in which the
writ is to be used, it appears to the court to be perfectly clear that the writ must be so used as to effect the
object. It may therl be directed to either court in
which the record and judgment on which it is to act
may be found.' The judgment. to be examined must
be that of the highest court of the state having cognizance of the case, but the record of thatjudgment
may be brought from any court in which it may be
legally deposited, and in which it may be found by
the writ
In this case, the writ was directed to the court of"
errors, which; having parted with the record,. could
not execute it. It was then presented to the supreme
court but, being directed to-the court of errors, could
In this
not regularly be executed by that court.
all ab.
waive
to
consented
parties
the
things
of
,state

OF THE UNITED STATES.

30J

1818.
jections to the direction of the writ, and to consider
the record as properly brought up, it, in the opinion
o
of this court, it could be now properly brought up on Gelston
r
a writ of error directed to the supreme court of NewHoyt.
York. The court being of opinion that this may be
done, the case' stands as if the' writ of error had been
properly directed.
. The orivinal suit was brought by the -defendant in
error against the plaintiffs in error for an alleged trespass for taking and carrying 'away, and converting to
their own use, the ship American Eagle, and her
appurtenances, and'certain ballast and articles of provisions, &c. the property of the defendant in error.
This is the substance of the declaration, although
there are some differences in alleging the tort in thq,
different counts. The original defendants pleaded,
in the first place, the general issue, not guilty, to the'
whole declaration ; and then two special pleas. The
first special plea,; in substance, alleges5 that the said'
ship was attempted to be fitted out and armed, and
that the ballast and provisions weie procured 'for the
equipment of the said ship, and were put on bord of
the said ship as, a part of her said equipment, vith intent thatthe said ship should be employed in the service of a foreign state, to wit, of thatpart of the 'istand
of S, Domingo which was then under the government of
Petion, to commit hostilities upon the subjects of,
another foreign state; with which the United States
were then at peace, to wit, of thatpartof the island .of
t. Domingo which was then under the government c f
Ckristophe, contrary to the. form. of the stat ut .m
4P
VOL. II.

CASES IN' THE. SUPREME COURT
ISIS.
k
061sto,

such case made and provided; and that the original
defendants, by virtue of the power and authority, abd
in pursuance of the instructions and directions of the

Hoyt,,

president of the Vnited States, seized the said ship.
&c. as forfeited to the use of the United States, acc6rding to the statute aforesaid, &c. The second
special plea is like the firsf, evcept that it does not
state that the ship was seized as forfeited, but alleges that the ship was taken possession of, and det'aied, under the instrucfior s of' the president of the
order to the execution of the prohiUnited States, iri
bitibn and penalties of tile act in such case made and
providdW; and except that it omits the allegations
fnde' the videlicets in the first plea, specifying the
Vdtf.e4g state by or :against whom the said ship was
to be employed. To these pleas there is a general
dilturrei, and joinder in demurrer, updn which the
state court gave judgment in favour of the original
iliihtiff "U'poh the trial of the general issue,, a bill
o'fexcelptions was taken to the opinion of thecourt.
gy.that bill" of exceptions, among other things, it ajp6ar:z, tIat the originar pliftiff, at the triiil, gave in
evadence, that at the time of' the seizure the ship was
inhis actual full and peaceable possession ; that the
ship, upon the seizure, had been duly- libelle'd f6r the
alleged offence in the- district eoirt of New-York;
that the original plaintiff appeared and drly claimed
the said shi't; and upon the trial she was duly acquitted, and ordered to be restoredi to the origina
plainti fby the district court*; and that a certficateof'rkasonable cause -for the seiz'ure of the said ship
brd 'heir deid. The plaintiff .then gave in evi-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
dence, that the value of the ship at the time of her
isis,
-seizure was 100,000' dollars ; and that the said
Schenck seized and took possession of the said ship Geiston
ly the written directions of the said Gelston; but no
Hoyt.
other proof was offered by the plaintiff, at that time,
of any right or title in the said plaintiff to the said
ship; and here the original plaintiff rested his cause.
The original defendants then insisted before the court,
that the said several matters, so produced and given
in evidence on the part of the original plaintiff, were
hot sufficient to entitle him to a verdict, and prayed th
court so to pronounce, and to nonsuit the' plaintiff.
But the court refused the application, and declared,
that the said several matters so produced and given in
evidence were sufficient to entitle the plaintiff to a verdict, and that he ought not to be nonsuited. To which
opinion the original defendants then excepted; and
the original plaintiff then gave in evidence that he
puretased the said ship of James Gille'pie, who had
purchase her of John R. Livingston and Isaac Glason, the owners thereof, and that in pursuance of such
purchase, the said Gillespie had delivered full and complete possession of the said ship, &c. to the original
plaintiff, before the taking thereof by the original defendants.
The otiginial defendants (having given previous
notice of the special matter of defence to be given in
evidence on the trial under the general issue, accordlngto the laws of New-York,) offered to prove and
give in evidence, by the way ofdefence and in mitigation
of damages, the same matter of. forfeiture alleged in
their first special plea, with the additional fact that

3 CASES JTN THE SUPREME COURT

308
1818.
t

the said Gelston was collector, and the said Schenck
was surveyor of the customs of the district of r~ew-

Hoyt.

zure of the ship, &c.. And the original defendants did,
thereupon, insist that vie said several matters, so offered to be proved and given in evidence, ought to be
admitted in justification of the trespass charged against
the defendants, or in mitigation of the damages claimedby the plaintiff, and prayed the court so to admit it.
But the counsel for the plaintiff, admitting that the deferndants had not been influenced by any malicious motive in making the said seizure, and that they had not
actea with any view or design of oppressing or injuring
the plaintiff, the court overruled the whole of the said
evidence so offered to be proved by the original defendants, and did declare it to be inadmissible in justification of the trespass charged against the defendants;,
and after the admission so made by the original plaintiff's counsel, that the said evidence ought not to be
received in mitigation or diminution of the said damages, as the said admission precluded the plaintiff from
zlalming any damages by way of punishment or smart
money, and that after such admission the plaintiff could
only recover the damages actually sustained, and with
that direction left the cause to the jury.
Prnm this summary of the pleadings, and of the facts
in controversy at the trial, it is apparent that this court
lias appellate jurisdiction of this cause, only so far as
is drawn in question the validity ot an, authority exercised under the United States, and the d ecision is against the validity thereof and so far as

v.

York, and as such, and not otherwise, made the sei-

OF THE UNITED STATES. is drawn in question the construction of some clause in
198.
a statute of the United St.tes, and the decision, is
e
against the title, right, privilege, or exemption special- G.
ly set up or claimed by the original defendants, for to HoyL
such questions, (so far as respects this case,) the 25th
section of the judiciary act has expressly- restricted
our examination., Whether such a restriction be not
inconistent with sound public- policy, and does not
materially impair the rights of other parties as'well as
of the United States, is an inquiry deserving of the
most serious attention of the legislature. We have
nbthing to do but to expound the law as we find it; the
'defects of the system must be remedied byranQth.er department'of the governnient.
The cause will be first' considered in reference to
the bill of exceptions. In respect to the proof of the
original plaintiff's cause of action, and the opinion of
the court that such proof was sufficient to entitle hiu
to a verdict, no errnr has been shown upon the argument; and certainly none is perceived by this court. If,
bowever, there were any error in that opinion, we
could not re-examine it, for it is not within the purview
of the statute. It does not draw in question, any au. ,
thority exercised under the United States, nor the con-.
struction of any statute of the United States.
In respect to the reiection of the evidence offered by
the original defendants to prove the forfeiture, and
their right of seizure, there can be nb doubt that this
court has appellate jurisdictionj if by law that evidence
ought to have ,been admitted in justification of the
trespass chargect .on the original defendants; for it

310

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

involves the construction *of a statute of, and an authority derived from, and exercised under, the United
'
Gelston
States.
V.
In order to establish the admissibility of the eviHoyt.
dence offered by he defendants, it is necessary for
them to sustain the affirmative of the following propo1. That a forfeiture had been actually
sitions.
the statute of 1794, ch. 50.-2,
under
incurred
That it was competent for a state court of commbn
law to entertain and decide the question of forfeitures. 3. That the sentence of acquittal in the district court was not conclusive upon the qaestion of forfeiture; and, 4. That the defendants as officers of the
customs, had a right to make the seizure.
not seem to be
At common Upon the last point, there does
law, any person
common
At
doubt.
for
rocm
per-much
any
law,
0onmaytat
peril,
seize his
formay at his peril, seize for a forfeiture to the governa foeitiure. to
the -govern-ment; and if the'government adopt his seizure, and the
property is condemned, he will be completely justified;
ment.
1818.

and it is not necessary to sustain the seizure, or
justify the condemnlhtion, that the party seizing shall
(Hale
be entitled to any part of the forfeiture.
on the Customs. Harg. Tracts, 227. Roe v. Roe,
Hardr. R. 185. Malden v. Bartlet, Park. R. 105.;
though Home v. Boozey, 2 Str, 952. seems contra.)
And if the party be entitled to any part of the forfeiture, (as the informer under the statute of 1794,
ch. 50. is by the express provision of the Law,) there
can be no doubt that he is entitled in that character to seize. (Roberts v. Witherhead, 12 Mod. 92.)
In the absence of all positive authority, it might be
proper to resort to these principles, in aid of

OF THE UNITED STATES,

311

the manifest purposes of the law. But there are ex-, 1818.
press statuteable provisions,
which directly apply to Gelston
est
,
the present case. The act of the 2d of March, 1799,
V
ch. 128. s. 70: makes it the duty of the several offi- Hoyt.
cers of the *customs, to make seizure 'of all ves- statute the
selg and goodi liable to seizure by virtue of any act ofcers,of the
revenue may
of the United States, respecting the revenue, andseize where
the laws of the
assuming the statute of 1794, ch. 50. not to be a reve-unitet
States
been rionue law within the meaning of this clause, still the case have
lated.
falls 'within the broader- language' of thd act of the
18th of February 1793,. ch. 8. s. 27. whi'ch authorizes the officers of the revenue to make seizure of any
ship or gobds, where any 'breach of the laws of the
United States has been committed. Upon the general principle then, which has been above stated, and
upon the express enactment of the statute, the defend'ants, supposing there to have been an actual forfeiture, might justify'themselves in the seizure. There *Aforf-i'ure
is this strong additional- reason in support of the po- ret, at the ma
I
ment the ofsition, that the forfeiture must be deemed to
fence is
,. attach 'rnitted
andcorn
thtr
at.the moment-of the.commission of the offence, and, prdperay is in
consequently, fron that moment, the title of
te'sropery
tntly disein
deves
plaintiff would he completely devested1 so that he could
maintain no action for the subsequent seizure. This is,
the doctrine of the English courts, and it has been re- The United
cognised and enforced in this court, upon very solemn States' courts
argument. (U. S. v. 1960 Ba~s of Coffee, 8 ranc, have exclusive
398. The Mars, 8 Cranch, 417. Roberts v. Witherhead questions of
, I
I'foreLiture
12 Mod: 92. Salk. 223. Wilkins v.- Despard, 5 T. BR. dirthe lawsun
of
the
United
112.)
States,
Their
sentence
of
In the next place, can a state court of common condemnation
law, entertain and decide the question of forfeiture or acequittai
conclusive.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.
"
Gelston
V.
hoyL

in( this case. This is a -question of vast practical
importance ; but 'in our judgment, 'of no intrinsic legal
difficulty, By the constitution, the judicial power of
the United States extends to all cases of law and equity arising under the constitution, laws, and treaties of
the United States, and to all cases of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction; and by the judiciary act of 1789,
ch. 20: s. 9. the district courts are invested with eXdisive original cognizance of all ivil 6auses of admirIlty and maritime jurisdiction, and of all seizures on
land and water, and of all suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred under the laws of the United tgates.
This is a seizure for a forfeiture under the laws of the
United States, and, consequently, the right:to decide
upon the same, by the very terms of the statutes,
exclusively belongs to the proper court of the United
States ; and it depends upon its final deciee, proceeding iT 're m whether the seizure is to be adjudged
rightful or tortious. If a sentence of condemnation
be pronounced, it is conclusive, that a forfeiture is incurred ; if a sentence of acquittal, it is equally conclusive against, the for:feiture ; and in either case, the
question cannot be litigated in another forum. This
was the doctrine asserted by this court, in the case of
Mayberry, (2 Whieat. R. 1.) after very
Slocum -v. A
deliberate consideration, and to that doctrine we unanimously adhere.
The reasonableness of this doctrine results' from
the very nature of proceedings in rem All persons
having an interest in the subject matter, whether as
seizing officers, or informers, or claimants, are parties
or may be parties to such suits, so far as their interest

OF THE UNITED STATES.
extends. The decree of the court acts upon the thing
1818.
in controversy, and settles the title of the property it- G61ston
self, the right of seizure, and the question ,of forfeiture.
v;
If its decree were not binding upon all the world upon
Hoyt.
the points which it professes to dqcide, the consequences would be most mischievous to the public.
In case of condemnation.no good title to the propei could be conveyed, and no justification of the seizure could be asserted under its protection. In case
of acquittal, a new seizure might be made by pny other
persons to.ie's quoties for the same offence, and the
claimant be loaded with ruinous costs and expenses.
This reasoning applies to the decree of a court having
competent jurisdiction of the cause, although it may
not be exclusive. But it applies with greater force to
a court ot exclusive jurisdiction; since an attempt to
re-examing its decree, or deny its conclusiveness, isa
,uanirest violation of its exclusive authority. It is doing that indirectly,.which the law itself prohibits to be
done directly. It is, in effect, impeaching collaterally,
a sentence which the law has pronounced to be valid until vacated or reversed on appeal by a superior tribunal.
The argument against this doctrine, which has been An action for
the
seizure
urged at the bar, is, that an action of trespass will in cannot
be
brought
in a
case of a seizure, lie in a state court of common law, common
state court
of
law,
and therefore the defendant must have a right to pro- beforo th, deteat'himself by pleading the fact of. forfeiture'in hisc isio n of the.
States',
defence. But at what.time and under what cil cum- United
courtupon the
itances will an action -of trespass lie? If the action be M-ding in
commenced while the proceedings ii rem for the supposed forfeiture are pending in the proper court Of tlie
Veo,. is
41

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818. United States, it is commenced too soon; for until a final
decree, it cannot be ascertained whether it be a trespa#0
Gelston,
or not, since the decree can alone decide -whether he
V.
Hoyt.

taking be rightful or tortious. The pendency of the
suit Sn rem would be a good plea in abatement, or a
temporary bar of the action, for it would establish that-

If the action be
if the action no good cause of action then existed
be brought at- commenced after a decree of condemnation, or aftervmn
ter a condemnation, or ac- acquittal, and there be a certificate of reasonable cause
quitthl with a

of of seizure, then in the former case by the general law,
eause of sezand in the latter case by the special enactment of the
statute of the 25th of April, 1810, ch. 64. s.*1. the deurc
certiticate

re&'onable

plead-cree and certificate are each ..good bars to the actioli.
maybe
ed in bar.
But if there be a'decree of acquittal and a denial of
such
conclhsively
established
is
seizure
_ ift upon""certificate, then the
But
the acquittal, to he tortious, and the party is entitled to hi4 full demaa certificate is
re.used,- the ges for the injury.
l5soncuzsire
estaelusively

The cases also of Wilkins v. Despard,

(6. "r, R.

92. Sa/k.
acourt of
a
that
,thefact otfor-33.) have'been relied on to show
feiture cannot
be pleaded in common law maRy entertain the luestiont of 1cfbar. suaso be feituie, notwithstanding the exclusive jurisdiotion fof
!,gain drawn
in question in the exchequer in rem. But these cases do not sustain
be 112.) and Roberts v. Witherhead (12 .od.
blished
tdrtious ;toand

the state court.

the argument.. They were both founded on the act
-of navigalioni 12 Car. 2. Ch. 18 s. 1. which vmong
o'ther things, enacts that one; third of the Sforfeiture shall go to him "who shall seize, inform, or
So that it
sue for the same -inany court of record.?
is apparent that in respect to forfeitures under this
9tatute, the ekchequer had not ,an exclusive jurisdiction, -but that the other courts of common lw had

OF THE UNITED STATES.
at least a concurrent juri.diction; And if these cases
1818.
,id not admit of this obvious distinction, certainl yG
"Geso
G elstont
they coulfd not be 'admitted to govern this court in
it..
ascertaining a jurisdiction vested by the 'constitution
Hoyt.
and laws of the United States exclusively in :their
wift courts.

'It is, therefre, clearly our opinion, that a state court
hias no legal autnority to bntertain the question of forfeiture in this case; and that it xclusively belongea
to the cognizance of the proper court of the United
States. Indeed no principle of general law seems bet-ofTedeci.lon
aCOurt of
ter settled, than that the decision ot a court of a pecul-pecuaiar and
iar and exclusive jurisdi tion must be completely bind- exclusive jurisdiction, is
ing upon. the judgment
of every
other
court, .'"inding
in which completelyupon
. .
"
.
the saine subject inatter comes incidentally in contro- thn judgment
It is familiarly known in its application to the of every othe
cutwhere.
sentences of ecclesiastical courts, in the probate of the same subversy.

. I"jee

matter

Wills and granting of adminhistrations
of personal estate; comes inidenI
tally in contro
to the sentences of prize courts in all matters of prize veisy.
jurisdiction ; and to the sentences of codirts7 of 'admiralty and other courts acting in rem, either to enforce Sorf~itures or todecide civil rights.
In the preceding discussion, we have been*unavoida bly led to consider and affirm the conclusiveness of
the sentence of a court of competent jurisdiction proceeding i remr as to the question of forfeiture; and a
,fortioritoaffirm it in a case where there is an exclusive
jurisdiction. In clases of condemnation the authorities are so distinct and pointed, that it would, after the'
Yery learned discussions in the- state courts, be- a'
4asteof time to examine them at large. Nothing can
be better settled, than that a jentence of Pondemna-

1ASES IN THM SUPREME COURT
I8S.

tion is, in an action of trespass for the property seite*,

dnclusive evidence against the title of the. plaintif.
(See Harg.-Tracts, 467. and cases there cited. Th.
mas v. Withers, cited by Mr. Justice Buller- in Wilkins
v. Despard, 5 T. R. 112. 117. Scott v. Shearman, 2
W. Bok. 977. Renshaw v, Pleasance, 2 W. BlMck.
1174. Geyer v. Aquilar, 7 T. R j8L and caem cited
bh. Lord Kenyon, 14U696. Meadows x. Dutchess 'Ef
Pothir
Kingstop, ,Amber's Rep.756,, 2 .ens'
.Obligatios, 346 to 367.
aud
A. distinction, .howdver, 'has lie" takett 4*
tempted to. be sustaihed' at the br,,between the effect
og'eondemimtion-:aqd of a senteace Of
ke,-the
tof'z: ~seilteqce
Looncls
~
whlether
forme is 1CA.CItadmitted.-that'rit
It'.i
of
acquttal.
be
etenc.
condemation
aft, to the latter,
otherwise
is,
it
that
.said
raquittd. sive ; but it is
for it 9scertainis 'no fact. IV ip:.certai*ly kncumlatt
on the party-whio asserts such a Aistinctios to porve
it .existence by.direct authorijes, or indiucti ns frtp
Duchess of
known and admitted, principles, . -the
v.
Hoyt.

RwppixgKingston's casej (11 State TTWA -261.
Hist..Comm Law by.Rpn Eject. 364. .!e,

-

ning&n note, p. 39,. &c.) Lord, hief Justice I)e
Grey aecljiree that'the r ule of Ovide wp must, bei as
it is, Often. declred, to be, rFciprocql;.4nd" that, in all
,casesin'.hich-the -seute~ces favourable to the party
are to bd adr't!ed aA ronclusiv, Ovidence for him, the
denteijees, if uniavouranle, are, in [ike manner, conclx"siye evidence against him. .This is the, language of
very , gh authprity, sinc.e it is:the unied. opinion of
all tme. juages of Englal ; ap4, thpugh., delivered, i
;kn
ppp~cabp, ,trictly"j,o a-onrpngl , suit, mg,;.e
tpl

TIM~ U!ILTPD STAME.

enWequUll'to upply to civil 'suits ..and sentences.And uponp'rinciple, where isthere to be found a subtrntial dijierence between a sentence of condemna4ion 'aud of acouittal n rem.? If the,former ascertains
and Etes the -ftrfeiture, and, therffore, it is concluive,. the latter no less ascdrtains that there is no. fir,:1eithre,-4nd, therefore, restores the property to- the
Mkimant. It dannot be pretended that a new seizure
hight, after asi'tzcuittal, be made for the same sub-posed.offence; orif made, 'Mal the former sentence
Jwould not,,as evide'nce, be conclusive, anid" as a bar,
be' peremptory against the second suit in rem. And if
Cinclusive"either way, it must be because the acquitt ascerizans the, fact that there was no forfeiture.
And'if the-ct.be found, 'it is 'strange that it cannot'be
evidexce for the party if found one way .and yet can
4*evidenee against him, if found another way. Ifsuch
were the rule, it would -be a perfect anomaly in th.'
kw,. and utterly subversive of the first principles of re
'cippocal justice. The only authority relied on for'this
.purpboe is a dictum in. )3uller's 'isi Prius, (246.)
where ij is said that though a conviction in a -court of
-criminal-jurisdiction be conclusive evidence of the fact,.
a.9it.atferyvids come collaterally in -controversy in.a
-Court-oftiviljurisdiction; yet an acquittal in such,
.urt is n pfoof' ofthe reverse, for an acquittal ascei-ins ho fact.as a conviction does. The case relikd
onto.support this dictum, (3 .fod. 164.) contains nothingwhikh-lends any-countenance to it, (Peake's-Evid.
3d ed. p. 47, 48.) But assuming it to be goodlaw.in respect to criminal suits-it has nothing to do with pro-

8M.
'
v.
.

18
1818.
V.
Ge.stoi.

Hoyt.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
ceedings in rem. Where property is seized and libelld
of the
as forfeited to the government, the solebeobject
rightful, and
suif is to ascertain whether the seizure
of the
the forfeiture iricurred or not. The decree
itself, and binds
court, in such case,'acts upon the thing
any party acthe interests of all the world, whether
the title of
tually appears or not. If it is condemned,
new title
the
the property is completely changed, and
thing in all
acquired by the forfeiture travels with the
it is acquitits future progress.' If, on the other hand,
and
removed,
ted, the taint of forfeiture is completely
stands
owner
cannot be re-annexed to it. The original
claims, with
latent
any
of
upon his title discharged
previously in.
which the supposed forfeiture may have
does, thererem,
in
fected it. A sentence of acquittal
of confore, ascertain a fact, as much as a sentence
fact that the
demnation ; it ascertains and fixes the
claim of forfeitproperty is not liable to the asserted
upon all the
ure. It should therefore %be conclusive
forfeiture, for
wbrld of the non-existence of the title of
condemnation is
the same reason that a sentence of
of forfeiture. It
conclusive of the existence of the title
ex diforfeiture
the
would be strange indeed, if, when
by
but
the thing,
recto could not be enforced against
that indirectan acquittal was completely purged away,
the seizing
through
ly the forfeiture might be enforced
asseit a tito
officer; and that he should be at liberty
abandoned
tie for the government, which is judicially
government
the
against,
Iby,or *onclusively established
itself.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
,One argument farther has been urged at the bar on
this point, which deserves notice. It is, that the sentence'of acquittalought not to be conclusive upon the
-original defendants, b'cause they were not parties to
4hat suit. This argument aaaresses 'itself equally to-a
sestehc.e of condemnation; and yet in such case the
sentence would have been conclusive evidence in fa-r
v'odr of thYe defendants. The reason, however, of this
rule is to be found in the nature of proceedings -n Tem.
To. such proceedings all perffons having an intefest Idr
title in the subject matter are, as we have already. sta.
tedi in law, deemed parties; -and the decree of the
couxrt is conclusive upon all interests and titles in coittroversy before it. The title of forfeiture is,necessarly in controversy in a suit to establish that forfeiture ;
and therefore all persons having a right or interest ,in
establishing it (as the seizing officer 'has.) are, in IegaJ
'ontetnplation, parties to the suit. It is a great misr
,take to consider the seizing officer as a mere stranger
to tbe suit. He virtually identifies himself- with thi
government itself, whose aorent he is, from the ronent of the seizure -up to the termination of the suit,
R{is own will is bound up in the acts of the government
Ot reference to the suit: For some 'purposes, as. for
-instance to procure a decree of distribution after cortdetonation where he isentitled to share in the forfeituye,
or to dbtain a certificate of reasonable cause of seizure
after an acquittal, he may ihake himself a direct- partyv
totheuit. and in all other cases he, is deemed to be
present and represented by the government itself, By
the very act of seizure le agrees to become a. party to

38
IBM:.
.
ROiA

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURt
the suit under the government; for in no other r*Wa18r1.
s
Gelston, ner can he show an authority to make the, seizure,
or to enforce the forfeiture. If the government ro'
fuse to adopt his acts or waive the forfeiture, there ib
Roy
an end to his claim: he cannot proceed to enforce
that which the government repudiates. In legal propriety, therefore, he cannot be deemed a stranger 'to
the decree in rem; he is at all events a privy, and, as
such must be bound by a sentence which ascertains
the seizure to be tortious. But if he were a mere
stranger, he would still be bound by such sentence,
because the decree of a court of competent jurisdiction
in rem is, as to the points directly in judgment, conclusive upon the whole world.
Upon principle, therefore, we are of opinion that the
sentence of acquittal in this case, with a denial of
a certificate of reasonable cause of seizure, was conelusive evidence that no forfeiture was incurrpd, and
that the seizure was tortious : and that these questions
cannot again be litigated in any other forum. And if
the point had never been decided, we should from, its
reasonableness and known analogy to other proceeda
ings, have had entire confidence in' the correctness of
the doctrine. But there are authorities directly ih
fwhr
point which have never been overruled, iiox a

'as we know ever been brought judiciallyinio
doubt. Above a century -ago it was decided
by Mr. Baron Price, (12 Vir...A.fignegi. A
B.. 22. p. 95.) that an acquittal in the :ewciequer was conclusive eviderice of the illgxiity
of the seizure, and he refused, in thit case (whiih
was trove for the goods seized) to let the ..parties in

OF THE UNITED STATES.to contest the fact over again.

321

This case 'was tited
1818.
as undoubted law by, Mr. Justice Blackstone, in his Gelston
elaborate opinion, in Scott v. Shearman, (2 W. B1.
v.
977.-) and the doctrine was fully recognized by the Hoyt.
court, and particularly by Lcrd Kenyon, in Cooke v.
Sholl, (5 T. R. 255.) 'although that cause finally 'went
off upon another point. In all the cases which have
been decided on this subject) no -distinction has ever
been taken between a condemnation and an acquittal
in rem, and the mainer in which these cases have been
cited by the court, obviously show, that no such dis.
tinction was ever in their contemplation. If to these
decisions we add the pointed language of Lord Chief
Justice De Grey, (in the Dutchess of Kingston's case,
11 S ae Tiials, 218. &c.) "tnat the rule of evidence
must be, as it is oftendeclared to be reciprocal;" the dec-'
laration of Lord Kenyon, in Geyer v. A'guilar, 7 T. R.
681. 996) that "where there has been aproceeding in
the exchequer, and a judgment in reml•as long, as that
judgment remains in force it is obligatory upon the parties who have civil rights depending on the same question;" and the generul rule laid down by Lord Apsley,
(Meadows v. Dutchess of Kingston, Amb. Rep. 756.)
that where a matter comes to be tried in "a collateral
way, the decree of a court having competent jurisdiction shall be received as conclusive evidence of the
zfttter," ez dir~cto determined; -there seems a weight of,
authority in favour of the doctrine, which it is very
difficult to resist. We may add, that in a recent case
which' was not cited at the argument, (The'-ennet, 1
Dodon's Rep. 175. 180.) where a.ship had been.capturVoL.' IIi.
"42

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

Geiston
V.

HoytL

ed as a prize, as being engaged-in an illegal voyage
and acquitted by the sentence of a vice.admiralty
court, Sir. W. Scott held, that by such sentence of a

competent tribunal, the question had become res adjudicata, and might be opposed with success as a bar
to any inquiry into the same facts upon a second capture during the, same voyage. Yet here the parties,
who ere, captors, were different; and the argument
might have been urged, that 'the acquittal ascertained
The learned jtdge, however, considered
no fact.
the acquittal conclusive proof against the illegality of
the voyage, and that all the world were bound by the
sentence of acquittal in rem. And the same doctrine
was held by Mr. Justice Buller, in his very learned
opinion in Le Caux v. Eden, (Doug. Rep. 594. 611,
612.)a
a In a recent case, in the
courtof exchequer in England, it has been determined,
that a judicial sale of a vessel
found at sea and brought into
port as derelict, under an order of the instance court of
admiralty, on the part of the
salvors and claimant, (without
fraud and cqllusion,) is available against the crown's right
of seizure for a previous forfei-'
ture incurred by the ship having beer guilty of a forfeitable
offence against the revenue
although. .the crown.
4w.

was not a party to the proceeding in the admiralty court,
other than by the king's procurator-general claiming ther
vessel as a'droit of adatirally;
and although no decision of
droit or no droit was, pro-

nounced, and the sale took
placependente lite under an interlocutory order. It was held,
that the crown should have
claimed before, the courtv
either as against the ship in
the first instance, or subsequently against the proceadv
of the iale, which werepAd

OF THE UNITED STATES.
IS 18.
"This view of the case would be conclusive agailast
the admission of the evidence offered by the original
Gelston
defendants at the trial, as a justification of the asV.
serted trespass. But the other point which has been Hoyt.
stated, and which invclves the. construction of the
act of 1794, ch. 50. s. 3. is not less decisive against
the defendants. That act inflicts a forfeiture of the
ship, &c., in cases where she is fitted out and armed,
or attempted or procured to be fitted out and armed,
with the intent to be employed "-in the service of
any foreign prine or state, to cruise or commit hostilities upon the subjects, citizens or property of another foreign prince or state with whom the United
States are at peace." The evidence offered and rejected, was to prove that the ship was attempted to
be fitted out and armed, and was fitted out and armed,
with intent that she should be employed in the ser-"
vice of that patt of the island of St. Domingo which
was then under the government of Petion, to cruise
and commit hostilities upon the subjects, citizens, and
property of that part of the Island of St. Domingo
-which was then under the government of Christophe.
into the registry to answer
claims under the order of
sale, or have moved a prohibition. That the 'warrant for
arresting the ship by the admiralty, and the process of
citation, was notice to all the
worid ofthe subsequent proceedings: And that in pleading
such Lale, in defence to an information in the exchequer,

the facts shoul be put specially on the record, so that
the attorney-generh! might dernur to, or traverse them, The
Attorney-General v. Noistedtf
(claiming the ship Triton,)
3 Price'sExchequer Rep. 97.
See Vyne's History of the
Life of Sir £eoline Jenkins,

vol. 11, p. 762.

324

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

No evidence was offered to "prove, thateither of these
governments was recognised by the government of
Gelston
the United States, or of France, "as a foreign prince
y.
the
lioyt. or state ;" and if the court was bound to admit
evidence, as it stood, without this additional proof, it
musi have been upon' the ground that it was bound to
take judicial notice of tfie relations of the country
with foreign states, and 'to decide affirmatively, that
Petion. and Christophe were foreign princes within
purview ,of the statute. No doct .ne is better
It is theexclu- the
1818.

sive. right of'

governmentsto established, than that it belongs exclusively to goacknowledge

new states n.vernments to recognise new states in the revolutions
such rewhich may occur in the world; and until the go
oisiithe
or
government,
own.
world, and un cognition either by our
tit such recog$

new" state belonged, courts
°
nition by our vernment to which the
government,or
-"
new state".
thie
of justice 'are bound to consider the ancient state
byhattowhih
This was ex.
things as remaining unaltered.
trev Ay be
on esiour preSsly held by this court in the casq of Rose v,
bund to Con Himely, (4 Cranch, 241.)- and to that decisign on

.iderth6 an
as re
of this point we adhere. , And the same doctrine is
cient order
.thin.s

tibumaning unclearly sustained by the judgment or' foreign
nals, (The Manilla, 1 Edwards R. 1. The city of
changed,
Berne v. The Bank of England, 9 Ves. 347. Dolden
The rivalv. Bank of 'England, 10 Ves. 353. 11 Ves. 283.) If,
chiefs in. the
are therefore, this were a fact proper for the consideration
Domingo
island of -SL
court below
,notforignprin of a jury, and to be proved i&pais, the
"ces or states
the other evidence, unless
within the aetwere not bound to admit
o~f that evidence, for
aid
in
proved
was
fact
ofI794,ch.50-this
prohibiting the.
.
.
ser
it no forfeitur6 could be incurred.
ship for theany.withiut
.ttingout

If, on tfie

the
ee of ny fo other hand, this was matter of tact, of which
then
cognizance,
take
reign princeor court were boundi judicially to
-mte tocrie

e"the court were right in rejecting the 'evidence, for to
. ."foriaa
'my 0-

OF THE UNITED STATES.

far as- we have knowledge, neither the government of 1 'S;
Petion nor Christophe have ever been recognised as
a foreign 'state," by. the government of the United Gelstox"
States, or of Prance.
H.oyt
In every view, therefore, of this case, the state
court were right in rejecting the evidence, so. far,as
it was offered irt justification. Was it then admissible in mitigatiQn of damages?. Upon this point -we
reallydo not entertain the slighest doubt. The evidence has no legal tendency to show that any 'forfeiture had been incuired, and upon the proof. already-V
in,the cause, the seizure was established to be torilous."
The plaintiff admitted that the 'defendants had actedwithout malice, or an intention of oppression.. Under
such circumstances, he waived any claim for, vindidtive damages, and the state court very properlydirecti& the jury, that the plaintiff could -only recovei "the
ac'tual damages sustaine4 by him, And in no p"'sAil
shape, -consistently-with the rules of law, coul d theat7.
idence diminish the right of ,the plaintiff to recover his
aottal damages. We have taken notice of this pointthe-more readily, because it was pressed at the bai
with considerable earnestness. But in strictness of
lau$ the point is not subject to, our revision. We have
no right, 9n a writ of error from a state court, under
*& act of congress, to inquire into the legal correctness
bf the rule by which the damages were ascertained and
#essed.
Thereis )io law of the United States, which
interferes with; or tiuches, the question bf damages. It
il.aquestion depending altogether upon the dominoni
Jaw; and the act of congress. has expressly prechu,.

.26

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818.' ded us from a consideration of such a question. Whether such a restriction can be defended upon public pole
Gelston.,
icy, or principle, may well admit of most serious
T.
Hoyt. doubts.
We may now pass to the consideration, of the second plea, which asserts, as a defence, a seizure under the laws of the United States, by the express intruction of the president, for a supposed forfeiture
in rem, and attempts to put in issue the question
whether sxiuh forfeiture was incurred or not. If this
plea was well pleaded, then a question may properly
be said to drise within the meaning of the 25th section of the judiciary act, and as the state court decided against the right and authority set up thereon,
the decision is re-examinable in this court. Several
objections have been urged at the bar against the
sufficiency of this plea upon technical grounds ; aid
if these objections are well founded, then it may be
admitted that the court below may have given judgment on these special grounds, and not have decided
against the right and authority set up under the United
States. In the first place, it is argued, That this plea
is bad, because-it does not answei the whole charge
in the declaration, the plea justifying only the taking
and detention, and containing no answer to the damaging, spoiling, and conversion of thq property
-charged in the declaration. We are, however, of
opinion, that the plaintiff can take nothing by this
objection, The gist of the action in. this case was
the taking and detention, and the damaging, spoiling,
and conversion were matter of aggravation only;

OF THE UNITED STATES.
and it is perfectly well settled, that a plea need answer
1818.
only the gist of the action, and if the matter alleged in
Gelston
aggravation be relied on as a substantive trespass, it
v
Hoyt.
should be replied by way of new assignment. (Taylor v. Cole, 3 T. R. 292. S. C. I. Bi. 555. Dye v. A plea need.
Leatherdale, 3 Wils. [. 20. Fisherwood v. Carman.
S answer
the gist ofonly
the
cited 3 T. R. 297. Gates v. Bayley,2 Wils. R. 313. 1 action, and if
the matter al
Cam. Dig. Plead. E. 1. Mon- leged in aggra
Saund. R. 28- note 3.
privatt v. Smith, 2 Camp. R. 175.) Independent, ho.. lation ba
ever, of this general ground, there is', in this partitular substantive ,
case, a decisive answer to the objection; for if the mat- h8old"be re
plied by way
ter of the plea were true and well pleaded, then by the of nt
new assign
.
of
forfeiture the property was completely divested out me
.the plaintiff; and, consequently, neither the conversion
nor damage were any injury to him.
Defetsofthe
But there are-other defects in this plea which, in pleas
innLb
our judgment, are fatal. In the first place it is not
alleged that theship and her equipments were forfeited
for any offence under the laws of thd United States. It
is true that it is stated, that the ship was attempted to
be fitted out and armed, with intent that she should be
employed in the service bf a foreign state, &c. to commit hostilities upon the pubjects 6f another foreign
state, &c. contrary to the statute in such case made and
provided. But it is not added, whereby and for the
cause aforesaid she became and was.forfeited co the
United States. Nor is this deficiency supplied by the
subsequent averment, that the ship was, by the instructions of the president, seized "as forfeited to the use
of the United States;" for the manner and capse of the

29
1818.
t
Gclston
v.
Hoyt,

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
forfeiture ought to be directly stated. The plea is,
therefore, not only argumentative, but it omits a substantive allegation, without which it could not be sustained as a bar.
In the next place, the plea is bad, because it does
not aver that the governments of Petion and Christophe are foreign states which have been duly recognised, as such, by the government of the United
States, or of France, which, for reasons already stated,
was mees~ry to complete the legal sufficiency of the
plea.
And in our judgment a still more decisive objection
is, that the plea attempts to draw to the cognisance of
a state court a question of forfeiture under the laws of
the United States, of which the federal courts have, by
the constitution and laws of the United States, an exclusive juridiction. For the reasons already mentiobed, if the suit for the forfeiture was still pending when
the action was brought, that fact ought to have been
pleaded in abatement, or a temporary bar to such abtion:
If the action was brought before proceedings in rem had
been institutedithat fact ought to have been pleaded,
with an allegation that the jurisdiction of the question
of forfeiture exclusively belonged to the district court
of the district where the seizure was made, which
would have been a plea in the nature of a plea to the
jurisdiction of the state court: If the suit were determined, then a condemnation, or a acquittal with
a certificate of reasonable cause of seizure, ought to
have been pleaded, as a general bar to the action.
These are all the legal defences *which the mere
seizure coild justify; and if these all failed, then the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

399 1

seizing officer must have been deemed gui:.y of the 1818.
trespass. The plea then stops short of the allega- Gelstou
"'
tions which the seizing officer, was bound to make
v.
to sustain his defence, and it ittempts to put in issue H'Yt,
matter which, standing alone, no court of common
law is competent to try. The demurrer then may well
be sustained to this plea, since the party demurring admits nothing except what'is well pleaded, ahd the plea
beirig bad in substance, there is, in poixt pf law, no
eonfession of any forfeiture.
The third plea differs in several respects from the
second, and is that on which the court have felt their
principal difficulty. Itasserts that the ship was attemp.
ted to be fitted ont and armed, with intent that she
should be employed in the service of *ome foreign state,
to commit hostilities upon the subjects of -another foreign state with which the United States were then at
peace, contrary to the form of the statute in such case
made and provided ; and that the defendants by virtue
of the instructions of the president, "did take possesion of, and detain"the said ship, &c. "'in order to
the execution of the prohibitions and penalties of the
act in such case made and provided." It omits to allege any forfeiture of the ship, or that she was seized
as forfeited. So far then as the plea , may be supposed
to rely on such forfeiture as a justification, it is
to A plea j~ tifjr
. open
•
the same objections. which have been stated against the A a seizure
under
second plea. ,
Sof
1794the
ch.act
5o.
Another objection bas been urged ,at the bar against
nedparticula
not state
e the
this plea,-which does not apply to the second. It is, prince Pr state
am a
in whose
thitit does not specify the foreign' state
ste
os srganst
whaom
th pw"
4t3
Vey. ITL

CASES IN THF SUPREME COURT

30
1818.
Gelston
,.,

Hoyt.

vice, or against whom,.the ship was intended to be employed. .A6the allegation follows the w6rds of the
statute, it has sufficient ceftainty fora lbel or information in -remfor the asserted forfeiture under the statute;
dnd, consequently, it has sufficient certainty for a plea.
thdeed, there is as much certainty as there would have
been, if it had been averred that it was in the service of
or against, some foreign state unknown to the libellant,
which has bpen adjudged in this court, to be sufficient
in an information of forfeiture. (Locke T. The United
States, 7 Cranch, 339.
But the main otjection' to* this- plea is that it attempts.to-justify the taking possession, and detaining of
the ship, under the' instructions of the president, when
the facts stated in the, plea do not bring the case
within, the purview of the statute of 1794, ch 50.
which is relied on for this purpose. This statute, in
the seventh section, provides, that in every case in
Which a vessel shall be fitted out and armed, or attempted to'be fitted out and armed, or in which the
force of any' vessel of war,, cruiser, or other armed
essel, shall be increased or augmented, br in which
any military expidition or efiterprise shall be bdgun,
tir set on foot, contrary to the prohibitions and provisions of that act, and in'every case of the capture of
t ship or vessel within the jusdiction or protection
ofthe,United States, and in every case in which anyprocess iisuihg out of any court of the United States
shall be disobeyed or resisted by any person or perabns, having the custody of any vessel of war, cruiser,
or ather. armed vessel of any foreign prince or state,

OF THE UNITED STATES.
or of the subjects or citizens of any such-nrince or
1818.
state; in every suc. case, it shall be lawful for the pres- G
ident of the United States, or such other person as he G ;
shall have empowered for that purpose to eraploy such Hoyt.
part of the land or navel forces of the United States,
or of the malitia therieof, as shall be judged necessary
for the purpose oftakingpossession of and detaining any
such ship or vessel, with 'her prize or prize if any, in
order to the execution of the prohibitions anl penalties
of the act, &c. It is to be recollected that this third
plea does not. allege any forfeiture, or justify the taking
and detaining of the ship for any forfeiture; and that
it does not allege that the president did employ any
part of the land or- navel forces, or militia of the
United State- for this purpcse, or that the original defendants, or -either of them, belonged to the navel or
military forces of the United States, or were employed
in any such capacity, to take and detain the ship, in order to the execution of the prohibitions and peralties
of the act. But the argument is, that as the president
had authcrity by the act to employ the navel and military forces of the United States for this purpose, a The 7th e
fortiorn he might do. it by the employment of'civil ore. tinof794,.
the act0.
But'upon the most deliberate consideration, we are f vO'notiltbnd
ed ;to apply,
a different opinion. The power thus entrusted
to the exoepttocases
'
sci
president is of a very high and delicate nature, and man- where
zure or. adeten
tionnoud not

ifestly intended to be.exercised only when, by the ordi- benroreed by
nary process or exercise of civil authority, the purpo, the ordinary
auo itpower,
ses of the law cannot be effectuated.
It is.to be ex- nd "ws no
cessary in the

erted oji extraordinary occasions, and subject to that
pre8sident's
,, pinion
to.-emo
high responsibility which all executive acts necessar.iyploy iajal or
military pow
er.

CASPS IN THE SUPREME COURT

is$
1818.
Gelston
T.

HoYt

sit
Involve. Whenever ii is exerted, all persons who
cases
ii
in obedience to the executive jnstructions,
in takihg pbswithin the act, are completely justified
and arL
session of,_and detaining the offending vessel,
the
Whirh
injury
any
n6t responsible in damages for
SueIy
proceeding;
.party may suffer by reason of such
tioft U congress,
inten
the
been
It never could have
as a shield tb the
allowed
be
t hat such a power should
might be
seizure
'seizing officer, in cases where that
of the case3
made 'by the ordinary civil meang? One
of the courts
put in the section is, where any process
and
resisted;
and
of the United States is disobeyed
the
of
this case abundantly shdws, that the authority
exercise,
president wiis not intended to be called into
necessary
were
force
naval
and
%unlesswhere military
terms the
to ensure the execution of the laws. In
military
of
section is confined to, the employment
tnd naval forces; and there is neither public policy not
principle to justify an extenasioni of the prerogative,
beyond the terms in -which it is given. Congress
might be perfectly willing to entrust the president
iii
With the power to take and detain, whenever,
or
military
that
go-flagraht
his opinion, the case was
'naval force was necessary to enforce the lawg, and
eircurmyet with great propriety deny it, where, from
gostances of the case, the civil- officers of the
responsibility,
private
vernment might, upon their
eewithout any danger to the public peace, completely
general
It is certainly against the
ecute them.
to create great 'discretioninstitutions
theory of our
"r.y powers by' implication: and in the present ift-

OF TrlE INITED iTATE,.

.43

1818.
;Mance we see nbthing to justify it. The third plea
is, therefore, Tor this additional Teasbn, bad in its Gelstoik
*y.
'very sifbstance, and the state court were: right in
Hoyt
giving judgment on the demurrer for the -original
plaihtif.
Th'e judgment of the 6ourtfor the correction or etrors of the state of New-York, is affirmed with dama.
ges at the tate of 6 per cent. upon the judgmnent, from
the rendition thereof, and costs.
Mr. Justice JoHuzsoN;. As the opinion delivered iii
'this case goes into the'consideration of a variety of topics which do not appear to me to be essential to the
vase I will present a brief view of all that I consider
as now decided.
Three pleas are filed to the -action. The first. is
The general issde, under which, 'accordiig *to the practice of the state, from which the case comes, .notice
was giv'n that the forfeiture would, be given in ev-.
dence.
The second pleaL is a justification, on the ground
of a seizure under the order of the president, for the
-forfeiture, incurred under thi third section of. the act of
1794.
The third is. a justification under the. order of the
ptesident, to detain for the'pui-pose of enforcing the
prohibitions -and penalties incurred under the third
section. And this order is supposed to have beeh
issued under authority given in, the .seventh section.
On the first plea issue was taken; and on the trikI
the state court refuised to admit evidence of the foi-

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

8.3.

feiture, on the ground that the acquittal in the district court was conclusive against the forfeiture. And
*'
Gelston
on 'this point this court is of opinion that the state
v.
Hoyt. .rourt decided correctly. This court is also of opiAcquittal in
the
conclu nion, that the state court could not have tried
court
the district
the
of
laws
question of forfeiture arising under the
sire.
fatal
been
stat courtsUnited States. But this point would have
1818.

'

could not try to te

had itbeen properly
the question ofthe suit, not to the defence,
forfeiture.

pleaded.

demurDefect of the To the second and third pleas the defendantan 't
rguonly
contained
plea
second
asred,
secondplea
e. but as the
contanmng an
argumpntativementative, and, of course, defective averment of the
averment
forfeiture, viz. "seized as forfeited," that is " becaue
forfeited," that plea did not bring up the question of
forfeiture, or any question connected with it.
Neither does the third plea bring up the question of
forfeiture: for the justification therein relied on is
forfeiture, and rests upon
'The seventh wholly independent of the
section of thethe 6rder of the president to detain for trind, in effect.
act of 1794 did

Aftd hence the only other point in the case is, whether
presiorder private the seventh section of the act empowered the

authorize
not presidenitto
the

individuals to dnt to issue such an order. And on this point we are
seize, but only
to employ the of opinion, that there is no power given by that act to
military andt
a seito authorize a seizure, but only to call on themilitary or
enforceforce
naval
forces to enforce a seizure when necessary. The
iatal
zure. a

defence set up is-not founded upon the exercise of s h
a power, but upon a supposed order to the defendants,
in their private individual character, to take and detain.
The act, therefore, does not sustain the defence.
Judgment affirmed.

OP THE-UNITED STATES.
1818.
Mr. D. B. Ogden inquired to which of the'-state
courts the mandate to enforce the judgment was to be
Gelston
tranismitted.
v.

Mr. Chief Justice

MARSHALL.

We must consider

the'record as still remaining in the supreme court of
New-York, and consequently the mardate must be directed to that court.
Mandate to the supreme court of New-York.
JUDGMENT.

This cause came on to be heard on 'the

transcript of the record of the. supreme court of judicature or the people of the state of New-York,
returned- with the writ o'f error issued in this case,
and was argued by counsel.
On consideration
whereof, it isadjudged and ordered, that this court
having- the power of revising, by writ of error, the
judgment of the highest court of law in any state,.
in the cases specified in the act of congress, in such
case provided, at any' time within five years from the
rendition of the judgment in the said courts, have the
power to bring before them the record of any such
judgment, as well from the highest court of law in.
any state, as from any court to which the record of
the said judgment may have been remitted, and in
wLich it may be found, when the writ of' error from
this court is issued. And the court, therefore, in' virtue of the writ of error in this cause,, do proceed and
take cognizance of this cause upon the transcript of
the record now remaining in the supreme court of
judicature of the people of the state of New-York;
and they do hereby adjudge and order, that the judg.
ment of the court for the trial of impeachments and

Hoyt.

assR

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818. correction of errors in this case, be, and the same is
%a
~
heieby affirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate
Unit. States
. Iof six per centum per annum on the amount of tne
Bevans. judgment of the said court, for the trial of impeachments and correction of errors of the state of NewYork, to be computed from the time of the rendition
of the judgment of the said court for the trial of
impeachments and correction of errors of the state of
New-Yoik.

(CONSTITUTIONAL

-The UNITED

STiTES

LA w.)
V. BE-ANs.

Admitting that the 3d article of the constitution of the United State%,
which declares that "the judicial power shall extend to all cases of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction," vests in the United States
exclusive jurisdiction of all such cases, and that 'amurder committed in the waters of ikstate where the tide ebbs and flows, is a came
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; Congress lave not, in the
8th section of the act of 1790, ch. 9; ." for the punishment of certain offences against the United States," so exercised this power as
to confer on the courts of the United States jurisdiction over such
murder.
Quere, whether courts of common law have concurrent jurisdiction
with the admiraly over murder cdmmitted in bays, &c. which are
enclosed parts of the seal
,Congress having, in the 8th section of the act of 1790, cli. 9, providsd
fur the'punishment of murder, &c. committed "upon the high seas,
or in any river, haven, basin, or bay, out of the jurisdiction of any
particular state," it is not the offence committed, but tho bay, &€c
in which it is tommitted that must be out ofthe jurisdiction of the

