CASES IN THE SUPREME COUR'r
1838 terested) could be done without affec'ing the other"
jurisdiction of the eourt might be
Craig defendantsthe
•

exercised as to him alone.
r.
RadforC"

(CHAN CERtY.)

CRAIG

etat. V'.

RADFORD.

ander the Virginia land law, the warrant mnst be lodged ir, tM'e
office of the surveyor at the time %lien th .. survey is made, his curtiffcate, stating that the survey was made by iirtue of the governor'*
warrant, and agreeably to the royal proclamation of 1703, is sufficelei*'
evidence that the warrant was in his posscssson at the time.
The 6th section of the act of Virginia of 174%) entitled, "An ael
directing the duty of surveyors of lands," is merely directory to the
officer, and does not make the validity of the survey doputd upon hi
"It,

conforming to its requisitions.
A survey made by the d..puty survoyor is, in law, to be considered
as made by the principal surveyor.
An alien may take, by purehsse, a freehold estate which cannot be
ofevested on the ground of alienage, but by inquest of office or soma
legislative act eqbivalent thereto.
A defeasible title, tius vested, during the war of the revolution, in P,
British b-rn sqbjeet, u ho has never become a ci.izen, is completely
protectcd and confirmed by the 9th article of the treaty of 1794, between the United States and Gicat Britain.

THIS cause was argued at the last term by Mr.

M/,

D. Hardin, an'd Mr. Talbot, for the appellant, anti by
Mr. B. Hardin, for the respondent.
Mar, 121h.

Mr. Justice' WASHI

GTON

delivered the opinion of

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18,18.
I'he court.' This is an appeal from a decree of the 'cirCraig
'cuit court for the district of Kentucky, made in a suit
v.
in chancery, instituted by the appellee against the ap
Radford.
convey
to
decreed
were
latter
tho
whereby
pellants,
to the fornier certaiti parts of a tract of land, granted to
them by the commonwealt4 of Virginia, to which the
-appellee claimed title, under a junior patent, founded on
a prior warrant and survey.
The xwrrant to William Sutherland, (under whom
the appellee claims,) bears date the 24th of January,
1774, and was issued by the governor of Virginia, by
virtue of the proclamation of the king of Great Britain,
vf 1763. Under this warrant, one thousand acres of
land, lying in Fibcastle county, on the south side of
the Ohio river, was surveye.1 on the 4th day of May,
1774, by Hancock Taylor, deputy surveynr of that
county, and a grant issued for the same, by the commonwealthof Virginia, to the said William Sutherland,
bearing, date the 5th of August 1783. The appellee
,derives his title as devisee under the will of his father,
William Radford, to whom the sail tract of land was
conveyed, by William Sutherland, on the 13th of February 1799.
The appellants claim parts of the aforesaid tract of
lan'd, under entries ma.le ujon treasury warrants: in the
year, 1780, which were surveyed in 1785, and patented
prior to the 26th of May, 1788.
It is admitted by the paities, 1. That William
Sutherland was a native subject of the king of Great
Brit.hin, and that he left Virginia, prior to the year
1776, and has never since returnel to .tl~e UPnited

CASE

IN THfE SUPREME COURT

States.
dly. That'Hancock Taylor was killed~by the"
Indians in 1774, and that he never did return the srin-Craig
Ca
veys made by him to the office of Preston.
the principal
:Jadford. surveyor of Fincastle county, but that A. Hemptonstrall
one of the company, took possession of his field notes,
after his death, and lodged them in Preston's office;
and that it was Taylor's usual practice to mark all the
.,corners of his surveys.
Thd correctness of the decree made in this cause
'isobjected to on various grounds.
1st. Because it does not appear that .Hancock Taylor had in his possession, or under his control, a war,rant, authorizing him to execute this survey for William Sutherland.
2d. Because there is not only an absence of all eviden,., to prove that the survey, for Sutherland, was
made and completed on the ground, but, that it appears,.from the evidence of Hemptonstrall, that no -such
survey was actually made. This witness states that
he attended Hancock Taylor; on this survey as a mar
ker, and sometimes as a chain carrier. He proves the
beginning corner, and the five first lines of the sur.
•ey ending at four chesnutfrees, the mark of which
'lines were plainly discernable when this tract was surveyed under an order of the circuit cozirt made. in this
cause. But he adds, that the subsequent lines of the
survey were n'ot run; and the. surveyor who executed
the order of the circuit court reports, that he met with
no marked-line, or corner trees, after he left thefour
chesnuts.
.3d. It.iq objected, in the third place, that the surI819.

or THE UNITED STATES.

-597

1818o
vey, not having.been completed by the deputy surveyor) the court ought to infer that the lines actually run Craig
v.
were merely -e'xpcriimvntal ; aftl, in such a case, it isdford.
t.
not'make,
could
surveyor
principal
contended, that the
and certify a plat of the survey on which a grant.could
legally be founded.
It appears to the court, that these objectionswere
fully examined and over.uled in the case of Taylor
and'Qtiarles v. Brown, 5 Cranch, 234.
It was there decided, 1. That if in p ,nt of law,
the warrant must be lodged in the office of the surveyor at the time when tIte survey is made, his certiLcate, which states that the survey was made by virtue of the governor's warrant, and agreepbly to his majesty's rnyal proclamation of 1763, is sufficient e-idence
that the warrant was in his possession at that time.
In this case the warrant, under which Sutherland's.
survey was made, is described in the certificate with.
sufficient certaintv,o nrove that the officer in making the survey acted under its authority. 2. It was
decided that the 6th section of the act of-Viijinia,
passed in the yeai 1748, entitled, "an act directing
the duty of surveyors of lands," upon which the second objeclion xnade iihat case, and in this, is founded, is merely directory to thP nffiver. and that it-does
not make the valility of the survey -to denpnd upon
the conformity.of the officer to its rieqv'isitions. This
construction of the above section appears to the,
vourt to be perfectly well founded. The ownIr -of
the warrant has no power to control the conduct of
the surveyor, whose duty it is to execute it, and'it
wtaild therefore be unreasonable to depriv-e him of

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
the title -which the warrant confers upon.him, on ac1818.
count of the siibsequent neglect of that officer. I
' C raig , I"I"
V.
the omission of the surveyor to "see the land plainly
Radford. bounded .by natural bounds or marked trees," which
tle law imposes upon him as a duty, cannot aft
feet the title of the warrant holder, it viould follow that his omissionto run all the lihes'of the survey on the 'ground, which the'law does not in express
'terms require him to dd, ought not to" produce that
effect.' If the surveyor, by running some of the, lines,
and from adjoinirig surveys, natural boundaries,,or his
personal knowledge of the ground, is enabled to protract the.remaining lines, so as to close the survey,
no subsequent locator can impeach the title foundel
upqn such 'survey, upon the ground that all the lines
were not run Mid marked. The legislature may undoubtedly declare all such surveys to be void; but no
statute to this effect was in force in Virginia at the time
when this snrvey .was made.
3. The third objectio.i nade to this decree appears to
be substantially removed by the opinion of this court,on the third point.in the case above referred to. It was
there decided that the survey, though in fact made by
the deputy surveyor, was in point of law to be considered as made by the principal, and, consequently, that
his signature to the p~at and certificate was a sufficient
authentication of the surlrey to entitle the person claiming under it to a grant.
As to the distinction taken at the bar between that
case and this, 'upon the ground 'that in this the survey was merely experimental, and was not intended
to be made in execution of the warrant, there is cer-

OF THE UNITEIY ST.,arES.

'

.

699

186.
tainlry nothing in,it. It is by aets that the intention
Craig
can,
declaralions,
positIv6
of men., in the absence of
v.
bestbe discovered. .The survey madeby Taylor was
adopted by the principal surveyor, as one aetually done Radford.
in execution" of the warrant to Sutherland,.and it
would be too much for thiq or any other court, to
presume that a "conirary interition prevailed in the
mind either -of the principal or deputy surveyor,,.
and on that supposition to pronounce the survey iivalid.
The last objection made to this decree is, that as a:
British subject, Win. Sutherland could not take 'a legaf
title t6 this land under the state of Virginia, and-"
consequently, that the grant to him in 1788 was voidand was not protected'by. the treaty of 1794, between
the United States and Great Britain.
The decision of this court in the case of Fairfax'g
devisee v. Hunter's'lessee, (7 Crhnch, '603.) affords'a
full answer to this objection.- In that case. the will
of Lord., Fairfax took effect in the year "1781,
during the war, and Denny Martin, the 'devisee, under
that will, was found to be a natlive born British subject, who had never become a citizen of any. of
the United States, but had always resided' in England.
It was ruled in that case, 1st. That although thedevisee was an a7;alienenemy at the time of the testa.;
for's death,'yet.he took an estate in fee under the will,
which could not, on the ground of alienae, be devested but by inquest of office, or by some legisla.tiye .act
equivalent thereto. 2d. That the defeasible title
thus vested in the, alien devisee was complete-

6M,
1818.
Ross

CASES.'IN THE:SUPREE COURT
ly protected and confirmed.by the ninth article of'00i
treaty of 1794.
These principles are'decisive of the -objection now

Triplet.. under consideration. In that, c'se, as in this, the le-,
gal title-vested hi the -alien by purchase during the
'war, and was not ddvested by any act of Virginia, prior to the treaty o 1794," which rendered their estates
absolute and indefeasible.
]Decree affirmed with costs.

(PRACTICE.)

Ross v.

TRIPLETT.

'Irscourthas no jtridiction o6causes bro ught bdrore it,.upon
,certiEcato of a diVision of opinions of t',e jiidjes of tho circuit court
Jfr the Districtof Columbia. Thisr.atjIylatc juiisdictioii ofthi; court,
ia isipect, to that court, only extends to the final judgments arid decrees qf the lattef.

Tnis cause *as brought from the circuit court for
the ditrict of;Columbia, upon a certificate that the
opinions:of the judges of that court were divided upon
a ruesetion wiich occurred in the cause, under tbe judiciary act of 1802* ch. 291. (xxxi.) s. 6. It'was submitted withput argument.
It was ordered to be certified to the circuit court,
MarcT& 12th for the district of Columbia, as follows :

