Or THY,UNITED STATES.
shipped? a sea which carried away her. railings, and -181
washed overboard one of her passengers ; her shrouds- T
The
and bow-sprit were materially damaged, and her water Atamuta.
short. Under these circumstances, I must think that
this collector was less under the influence of humanity
and a s-nse of duty, than that of avarice, in making this
seizure. Had he libelledher as enemy's proplerty, I
should have thought the'6ase not destitute ;f reasonable grounds ; but it was not his iiterest to convert her
into a droit of admiralty, and it is not ou, province,
under this libel, to admit any thing into the, case which dan hear the appearance of charging with one crifiie,
amd trying for another.
Dedree affirme&.-

(PRIZE.)
Tat ATALANTA.--- Fossat ,Claimatt.
X uteutral cargo found on board an arnied er-my's vesselis not fiable
to
cotdemonation as prize of war.
A question ofprop ietary interest Farther proof ordered.

AiPXtAt&from the cire~it

couft ofor the distric t 6f

Georgia.
This ship, being a British armed vessel, was captur
ed in the year 1814, on a voyage from .Bordeame to
V6t IIL
6-

CASF9 IN THE SUPREME COURT

'41
'818.

Pensacola, by the sloop of war Wasp, and sent intm
Savannah, in' Georgia, where she was libelled, and

The
Sianta. condemned in the district court as prize 'of -;ar, The
cargo, which was claimed for "M. Foussat, a merchant
domiciled at B&urdeaux, was also ,condemned. On ap'peal Lo the circuit court as to the cargo farther proof
was ordered, and restitution decreeA to the-claimant.
brought by, appeal to this
The cause was .then
tourt.
The vessel was owned by Messrs. Barclay, Salkeld
& Co.'of Liverpool, who were- also owners of large
She sailed
cotton plantations near' Pensacola.
1814, for
August,
-of
-14th
from Liverpool on the
Boraeaux, laden with a cargo, part of which, about
equal in value to, the cargo subsequently taken in at
Bordeaux, belonged to the. owners of the shilp; ano
the dodumentary evidence showed that her ultimate
deatination was,Pensacola or'the Havanna. A iew days
aftar the arrival of the vessel nt Bordeaux she was
chartered by the claimant, who then had a vessdl o"
his own lying unemployed in that port, and the cargo claimed was put on board in September, 1814.
One Pritchard, wh6 sailed in the vessel, was a British
subject, and according to 'some of the testimony, acted
as superqargo. At the time of the capture, the master
and Pritchard were taken out of the vessel and carried on board the Wasp, which ship has never since
been heard of, and is supposed to have been lost at
sea. The proceedings in-the district court were extremely irregular; no examinations of the prisoners
on the standing interrogatories having 'been taken, and
vitaesses, having, been examined in the first in..

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Wance, who neither belonged'to the captured nor the
1813.
tapturing vessel. The farther proof produded by'the
claimant in the court below consisted of an affidavit AUINW&
of the claimant, swearing to the property in huiself,
and a certilicate of two royal notiries at Bordeaux,
that the copy of a letter from the claimant-to Vincent
Ramez, the c'onsignee at Pensacola, dated thi 28th
of August, 1814, and stating the object of the adventure, was truly extracted from'the claimant's letterbook.
o

fMr.Berrien, fir The appellants and captors, argued,
that the cargo was liable to condemnation, '1st. 'As
being laden on board-an' enemy's ' armed v rsel : and,
2dly, on accunt -of the defects in the proofs of proprietary interest. That, although the doctrine inculcated in the case of the Nereide,a tended to Show that
the circumstance of the cargo being found on board
an armed enemy's vessel wag not, in itself, a substantive cause of condemnation, .the prinfciple had not
been decided by a majority or the 'court; Mr. Justici
Johnson's oninion liniting it. to the case of a ileutrat
at peace with all the .world.b This wa's'not the case,
of Mr. Pinto, but it was the case of M. Foussat.
Just before the decision of the Nereide, Sir Wil1am Scott had -held the contrary doctrinec, and
decreed salvage for the recapture of neutral goods
previously taken 'by one of our cruizeri, on
board an armed British. ship,' upon, the ground that*
v; 9 Crand, 388&
5 Id. 431.
4 The Fanny, Dodson, 445.

July'20th, 1814.

12

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

1818. the American courts might 'ustly have condemned
the property; But even supposing this circumstanice
"-'
The
it inAtalanta. not to be a substantive cause of condemnation,
arising'fronA
interestq,
flames the suspicions of hostile
the other circdmstances of the case, and does not adnuit of an explanation consistently with the pretended
neutral character set up by the claimnant. The inconvenience of exposing imself to these suspicions must
have been compensated by the protection afforded by
an armed force, or that protection would not have
been resorted to. The case is, in that respect, distinguished to its disa vantage from the whole class of
cases, including the St. Nicholas and others,a where
fraud, and not force was resorted to, in order to evade)
instead of directly resisting belligerent rights. The
principle of reciprocity, as a doctrine of prize law,
has been overrqled by the court~b and, therefore, it
,*tnnot be, contended that the rnle of the French prAe
eode, by which the having an enemy'S supercargo on
board is a cause of condemnation, is to be retaliated
upon the claimtnt, But this fact 'increases the
improhability Ihat Frenchman, who must have <numa
the law of his own country in this respect, would
have exposed his property to the risk of confiscation in
the courts of a country whos;prize law -he cou(ld not
know., because it was still unsettled. All the other
o.ircumstances of the case tend to the conclusioi that
'it wasnothis property,.but that of the British .shp
-owner.
4 7
a Ante, vol. I. p. 1 .
-b The Nereide, .9 Cranch. 422.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. &rgeanti contra, contended; that the case of 1818.
the Fanny, even if it were not coitradicted by that
h
r"!
of the Nereide, was not directly in point:
Sir W, .Atfi~n#,
Scott there goes on the ground of the probabity or
danger of conflemnation in our -ourts, as affording a
rcas64 far giving slvagt
Besides,. the Fanny W"
a cmmissioned, ab well as armed vessel ; w~cpb. tbe
Nereide and the Atalnta were not, But it must
be confeszed tliat the decision in the Fanny was a
very careless, not to say superficial, judgment. The'
judge agrees that the Portuguese flag was an inadequate protection, and yet I
the neutral liable to
condemnation for taking sheiter under a belligerent
forge. With all due respect to the great man- by
whom it was pronounced, it may be said to be tinptured with 'oome of those peculiarities which nmark
the conduct of the tribunals of a great maritime
country, bent on the assertion of its pretensions by its
vve.rwhelming naval power. At all events, if. dpps
not form a law for this-court, any more than the prin'cple of retalfation -which has beenalready repudjAted by the court. The proceedings in the present
case have been marked by irregularities sub e;siv*
of that justice whteli is due to neutrals, and by g
neglect of those forms which are a part of the silent
opmpact by which they agree to submit to the exercise of the harsh and inconvenient prerogative 4f
search. The cause was not heard in the cour.t of
first insrance upon the ship's. papers bpd the ppepar-a.
tory depositions, 'before extraneous testimony'was
let in, by ,an order for farther proof The tlitary
principles of prize practice, which afford a security to

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

414

the courts ot the captor, that
:grossly oppressive, have beeo
It is a rule of justice in admiof instance or prize, that where
the original evidence appears to be clear, the court
If the
will not indulge in extraneous suspicions.a
employment of an armed enemy's vessel be innocent,
no unfavourable inference can legally be drawn from
it any more than from the employment of an vnarmed belligerent carrier. Both this circumstance
and the employment of an English supercargo (if he
was employed) would rather show that no fraud
'was intended, since the annals of the prize court do
not afford a single instance of a fraudulent case
which was not entirely covered with the neutral

neutrals in a trial in
would otherwise be
The
A-talanta. wholly disregarded.
ralty courts, whether
1818.

garb.

The Attorney-General, in reply, insisted, that the
fact of the cargo being captured on board an armed
belfigerent ship, raised a strong presumption, throwing the onus probandi on the claimant with more
than usual weight. The only evidence to reli.-e
this presumption, was the oath of the claimant himself, unsupported by that of any other witness, or by
any documentary evidence; and- that too uude'r an or.
der for farther proof; a mere test affidavit, without
which a claimant can in no case receive restitution, but
which is no evidence, or next to none, in a case of the
least doubt or difficulty.
a The Octavia. I Wheat. 23, n te

c

OF THE UNITED STATES.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL, delivered the opinion
18ts.
of the dourt. This vessel was captured on a voyage
from- Bordeaux to Pensacola by the sloop of war Wasp Atalanta.
and sent into Savanna in Georgia, where she was libel-.
led and condemned as prize of war.' The cargo was 1grrA4fA.
claimed for Mons. Foussar a French merchant residing
at BIordeaux. In the district court the cargo was condemned as enemy's property, avowedly on the principle tha t this character was imparted to it by the vessel in which it was found. On an appeal to the circuit court, farther proof was directed, and this sentence was reversed, and restitution decreed to the
claimant. From this decree the captors appealed to this
court.
It has been contended, that this cargo ought to be
conademned as enemy's'property,. because, lst,JIt was
found on board an armed belligerent.
2d. It is, in truth, the property of British subjects.
On the first question, the case does not' essentially
differ from that of the Nereide. It is unnecessary to A neutral carrepeat the reasoning on which that case was decided. g
a aundrmthe opinion then given by the three judges is retained ed enemy's
vessel, is nmm
1I
by tnem. The principle of the law of nations, that the able
to cona*
goods of a friend are safe in the bottom of an enemy, demnatiorp
prizm
may be, and probably will be changed; or so impaired
as to leave no object to which 'it is ap'plicable; but so
long as the principle shall be acknowledged,. this court
must reject costructions which render it toi lly inoperative.
2d. Respecting the proprietary interest, much doubt
is entertaine-d. In add'tioft to the extraordinary fact
of employing a belligerent carrier, while a neutral vts,-

CASES

THE SUPREMKE COURT

el lielonging to the alleged owner of the cargo lay in
port, there arecircumstances in this case calculated to
Thb
ought to clear up,.
Atalanta. awaken suspicion, which the claimant
power.
his
in
be
may
as
far
so
The returil cargo of the Atalanta, was to be in cotton, end Berkley,, Salkeld & Co., the owners of the
vessel, were also owners of large-cotton plantations,
the produce of which might be readily shipped from
Pensacola. The papers show that the Atalanta sailed
from Liverpool, where her owners reside, with a cargo.for Bordeax, a part of wihich, about equal in value
to the cargo taken in a' Bordeaux, belonged to Berkley, Salkeld', & Co., and that her ultimate destination,.
at the time of sailing, was Pensacola, or the Havanna.
Within a day or two after her arrival at Bordeaux.
she was chartered by the claimant for the voyage on
as captured, and the cargo he now
which she
claims was put on board. A Mr. Prichard sailed in the
vegsel, who was a British subject, and -who has b en
.represented in, some of the testimony as a supercar-

r--.

'

go.
There are, undoubtedly, circumstances to diminish
the. suspicion which must be excited by those that
roceedings haie been
have been mentioned. The
very irregular; no examinations in preparatorio have
The captain, and probably themate
beer taken.
with the alleged supercargo, were carried on board the
.Wasp, and have perished at sea, and Mr. Foussat,
whose character is unexcelitionable, has sworn popitively to his .interest. Yet, this interest can be, and
therefore ought to be, proved by other testimony, int

6r THE UNITPUY STATES;.

;I

jt is inthe power of Mr. Foussat to explain- circum- 1818.
The
stances, which,. as. they now'appear, cannot be disregarded. The court, therefore, requires farther proof, Atdiant'
which Mr. Foussat is allowed to produce,.to the following points:
1st. To his proprietary interest in the cargo. Toshow how an-d when it was purchased.
2d. To vroduce his correspondence w;th Barclay,.
Sallceld & Co., if any, respecting this voyage.,
3d. To explain the circumstances relative to the,
original destination to Pensacola, when -the Atalan-.
ta sailed from Liverpool.
4th. To explain the character of Mr. Pritchardi,,
and his situation on boaid the Atalanta.
5th. To establish the genuineness of tile letter of
,the 28th of August, and say by what vessel it was.
sent..
6th. To show to whom that part of the cargo of the.
'Atalanta,on the voyage from Liverpodil to Bordeaux,
which belonged to Barclay, Salkeld & Co., was con.
signed, and how it'was. disposed of.
7th. To produce copies of the letters of Barclay,
Salkeld & Co. relative to this transaction, or accouhi.
for their non .production.
Mr. Justice JoHNso.N. When this cause was consi .
dered in the court below, I entertained great doubts os
the subject of the proprietary interes . But those doubts
hve here been satisfactorily cleared up. I am now
satisfied, that no inference unfa-ourable to the claim
can fairly be drawn from the circumstance of this.
54
VOL. III.

CASRS IN THESUPRENIR COURT
1819.
cargo being laden on board an armed belligerent.',I
0
it had been intended to throw a yeil of neutrality
Tht
Atatanta. over hostile property, it is more probable that a neutral carrier would have been used thag a belligerent ;
and as to the dangers supposed to have been unnecessarily ineurred', of being captured and turned away
from the desifned market, it is more than probable
that a chance of being aptured and carried into, an
American port, go far from , being prejudicial to the
adverture, would have enhancel its profits. The
claimant, then, if conscious of his innocence, had' no
evilto apprehend from capture; on the contrary as
:the cargo was calculated for" an American market, it
might in case of capture, have reac.hed its destinatlion
directly; whereas, if it hd arrived at Penzacola,
its route wduld have been more circuitous. With.
regard to the fact, that -the voyage in its inception,
was destined to Vensacola, that I think also satisfactoriTy explained. It was in strict pursuance of her original destination ; on her'arrival at Bordeaux she was
put up for. Pensacola, and chartered by this. claimant
for the voyage. The instructions to the captain show
that it was not fixed, wh-ther, on her return voyage, she shduld be laden on owners' account, or not;
and it probablydepended upcn the ccntingency of her
.being taken up at Bordeaux for.a return freight. As
to the fact's that Pritehard, the supercargo to Bordeaux, continued in that capacity on, the voyage to
Pensacola ; that Ramez, the consigiee, was me agent
of the ship-owner ;and that the present cargo was
.purchased with the freight ana cargo to- Bordeaux,
La.mnowsatisfied that they are unsupported by the

OF THE UNITED STATES.

419

isIl.
.'vdence. That-Pritchard should continue to' be de.
the
..
a
mong
supercargo
of
signated by the appellation
'crew was to be expected from his -having been Atalant.
known among them by' that epithet on the voyage
o Bordeaux, and that Ramez,, who had been recommended to Salkeld, Barclay & Co., for his integ-.
rity by their -agent, should be by them, or by some
-other, recommended to the patronage of Poussat, was
perfectly consistent with ordinary mercantile intercourse; and in the total absence of proof, that the
freight, or proceeds of the outward cargo of the ship
ever came to the hands of Foussat, there is n.o sufficient reason for conjecturing that the cargo laden on
board for Pensacolh was purchased with those funds.
I am, therefore, of opinion, that the proprietary
interest is sufficiently established. But, as the proprietary interest is altogether immaterial, if lading
neutral cargo on board an Armed belligerent is, per se,
a ground of condemnatfon, it becoVres necessary to consider that question.
It has long been with me a rule of judicial proceeding, never, where I am free to act, to decide more
in any case than what the case itself necessarily re.quires; and so'far only, in my- view, can a case be
Accordingly, when the
considered as authority.
-case of the Nereide was before this court, I declined
,expressing my opinion upon tie general question,
because the cargo, considered as Spanish properfy;
7as e*posed to capture by the Carthaginian and
other privateers, and coo'sidered as belonigig to a revolted colony, was liable to Spanish capture. 'The
zeutral shipper, therefore, could not, be charged . th

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
evading our belligerent rights, 6r piittirng off his neutral
1819.
character when placing himself under the protection of
T
"The
,Atalanta. an armed belligerent, when sailing, as that Lhipper
was, between Sylla and Charybdis, he might accept of
the aid or protection of one belligerent, without giving
just cause of offence to another.
But a case now occurs of a vessel at peace With
;all the world ; and to give an order for farther proof
without admitting the rule, that lading a neutral cargo
'bn board an armed belligerent is not, ver se, a cause
,of forfeiture appears to me nugatory.
It is true, this is not a case of a commissioned or
cruizin g vessel, and I haire no objection to reserving
the 'question on such a case until it shall occur, if it
can be done consiitently with the principles upon
which I found myopinion; but in my view, there is
no medium, and no necessity for a belligerent to ingist on any exception in his favour. On the contrary,
I consider' all the evils as visionary that are dwelt
upon as the result of thus extending his -right in fayour of neutrals. No nation can be powerful on the
-ocean that does not possess an extensive commerce';
,and if her armed ships are to be converted into carriers, (almost, I would say 'an 4bsurd suppositi6n,)
her own commerce would have the preference :, so
Jhat the injury could never be of any real extent. But
should it be otherwise; what state of things ought
one belligerent more devoutly to desiie than that the
-,whole mililary marine of her enemy should be so
employed, and bound down to designated voyages,
from wbich they were not at liberty to deviate ? It
.wqlal-j curious to .q # govqr pmet thus involving

O

THE UNITED STATES.

itself wilth merchant,shippers in question's of affreight1818.
ment, assurance, deviation, average, anild so forth; the
Th.
possibility may .be imagined, but the reality will Atalan t ,
never-exist.
The general rule in.this 'case, it will be obsexved,
is controverted by no onL ; nor is it denied that it is
incumbent on the captor to maintain the exceptioncoutended for, It is for him to prove, that the acknowl
eaged right of the neutral to employ a belligerent carrier does not include the right of -employing'an ared
belligerent carrier.
In order to support this proposition, argumdnts are
usually adduced, from the silence 6f writers upon the
subject; Irom decisions in analogous eases; and from
its general inconsistency with the belligerent right of
search or adjudication.
If it be asked, why have writers,- and pa'rticularly
the champions of neutral rights been silent on this
subject ? I think the answer obvious. P ractically it
'isof very little general importance either to neutrals or belligerents, and those -who are more disposed
to favour "belligerent claims would naturally avoid a
doctrine which they'could not maintain, wbilst all
who' wrote for the benefit of 'those who are to read
would -avoid swelling their volumes with unnecessary discussions, or raising phantoms, for the. amusement of laying them.
The silen'ce of the-w*orld
upon the -subject is, to my mind, a suffibient evid.ence
that public sentiment is against it. It is. impossible,
"bu that in the course of the long and active naval
wars of the last two centuries),. cases'niust have "cctwrect in which- it became necessary- to con0der this
-

4CASES

IN THE SUPREME COURT

question; and though it 'had escaped the notice of
1818.
jurists, it must have been elicited by theavarice of
'
The
Atalanta. captors, the ing-nuity of procters, or the learned researches of courts of prize. Yet we find not one case
on record -of a condemnation as, prize of war'on the
ground of argument, nor a dictum in any of the books
that suggests such an exception. But the rule itself
is laid down everywhere; and in my view, laying down
the rule without the exception' is in effect a negative to
the.exception.
I But it is not true that this subjct' has altogether
escaped the notice of writers on the law of prize.
There is on record one opinion on this subject, and
that of great antiquity and respectability, and" whith
may nave given the tone to public opinion, and thus
account for the silence of subsequent writers : I alide to the dictum: extracted from Casaregis, in which
the author asserts, "that if a vessel laden vith neutral merchandize attack another vessel, and be captured,. her cargo shall not be made prize, unless the
owner of the goods, or his supercargo, engage in the
conflict." Now, if an actual attack shall not subject
to forfeiture, inuch le's shall arming for defence;' and
it is fairly inferrable from the passage that the author
had in"his view, the case of an armed belligerent efirrier, or'he would not hcve represented her as theL'attacking vessel.
But it is contended, that decisions have taken
place in the courts" of other states, in.analogous cases,
vhieah cfndnot be reconciled with the printiple on
which the claim,*& rests his defence. On this sub
ject I will make ope geqeral remark: I acknow

OF THEM UNITED STATE$-& .
ledge no decision as authority in this court but the deI8'18
cisions of the court, as far as necessary to 'he case deciThe
ded; and the decisions of the state courts as far as they Atalanta.
go to fix the lahilharks of property; and, generally,
the lea loci of the respeciive states. All other decisions I will respect for as much as they are worth in prii.
ciple.
The decisions relied orf ii. this part of the argument are those by which nreutral vessels under veutraZ
convoy, were condemned for the unneutral act of the
convoying vespel; and those in which neutral vessels
have been condemned for placing themselves under
protection of a hostile convoy. With regard to the
first cla.s of cases, it-is very well known that
they originated in the capture of the Swedish convoy,'at a time when Greaf Britain had, resolved to
throw down the glove to all, the world on the princi,ple of the northern bon federacy. It was, therefore, a
measure esseiiiialli histile. But independently of
this, there are several considerations which present
qn obvious distinction between both classes otbases
and this under consideration. A convoy is an association for a hostile object. lb undertaking it, a nation spreads over, the merchant vessel an immunity.
from search, which belongs only to a national ship;
and by joining a convoy, every individijal ship puts
off her pacific character, and undertakes for the dis.
charge of duties Whith belong only to the military
marine, and adds to the numerical, if not to the real,
strength of the convoy. If, then, the association be
voluntary, the neutral, in suffering the fate of the
whale, has only to regret his owu. folly ihwedding

04

CASES: IN T1E SUPl

ME COURT"

in the aggreseio,'
08; his fortune to, theirs; or if 'involved
or opposition of the convoying vessel, he -shares the
•-The
Atalbnta. fate which the leader of his own choice either was,
or would have, be -n made liable to, in case of captue" To elucidate this idea let us suppose tbe case
of an individual, who voluntarily fills up the ranks
of an enemy, or of one who only enters upon the discharge of those duties in war which would otherwise
take men from the ranks; and the reason will be obvious why he should be treated as a prisoner of war
and involved-in the fate of a conquered enemy. But
it is not so with .ie goods which constitute the lading,
of a ship; those give -,either real nor numerical strength
to an enemy, but rati.r embarrass and impede him.
And even if it be admittt- T that, in all cases, a cargo,
should bf tainted with the offence of the carrying vespel, it will be- seen that th6 reason upon which those
eases profess to proceed is not applicable to the case
of neutral goods on board of a hostile carrier. Resistaine, either real or constructive, by a netral carrier,
is, with a view to the law of nations, unlawful; but not
so with the hostile carrier, she had a right to resist, and
in her case, therefore, ere is no offence committtA to.
6ommunicate a taint to her cargo.
But it is conterided that the right to use a hostile,
itmed- carrier, is inconsistent with the belligerent's.
right of search, or of capture, or of adjudication; for,
bn this point the argument is not very distinct, though'
I plainly perceive it must be the right .of adjudication,
If any, that is impaired. The right -ofcapt'ure applies
dnly to enemy ships or goods; the right of search to,

OF"THE

TJIrE STATES.

421

1918.,
eamy goods on board a neutral carrier; and therefore
it must be the-right of adjudication that is supposed to
T0*"'
Thebe impaired, which- applies to the case of goQds found Atalaiitu,
either im board of a neutral or belligerent, and this
mere 86intilla juris is at last the real basis upon
which the exception contenided for must rest. But in'
what manner is this rigit of icjhadication impaired?'
The neutral' does not dbny the right of the belligerent
to decide the question of proprietary interest. If it bereally neutral, of what consequence- is it to tlie'bellig-"
erent who is Ihe carrier? Ire has no right to capture
it; and if it be hostile covered as neutral, the belligerent.
is only compelled to do that which he must db in all'
ordinary cases, subdui the ship before he gets the car-go. It cannot be expected that the belligerent 'vilr
rest his complaint upon the humiliating ground' of hisinability to subdue his enemy; and if he should, the
neutral may well reply it is his affair or hi misfortune'
but ought not in any of its *consequences to'affect the,
rights of the neutral. Nor is' it at. all 6ertain thatlading on board' an enemy carrier is done at all times,
with an intent to avoid capture;it may be to solicit it;
as in the'case of the late war,. when British goode,.
though neutral owned, could only be brought into-our'l
market through the' medium of capture. There, instead of capture being a iisk of the voyage, it was
one of the chances of profit. And the hostile carrier may have beeh preferred to-the ,neutral, with the
express view of increasing the' chance, of capture.
When we come to analyze and apply the ara:-'-

Vo.

111.

55",

CASES iN THE SUPREME COURT

426

-'

lots. ments of the defenders ot this exception, I think it
will be found that they expose thernsllves to the impu"
The
,Alxnta tation of unfairne-s, in professing to sustain an exception, when they mean to aim a blow at the whole neutral right of using a belligerent carrier; or they do not
follow up their 'reasoning in its conseqxences, so as to
be sensible of the result to which it leads. ' The exception which exhausts the pincipal Aule must be incorrect, if the rule itself be admitted as a correct one;
it is, in fact, an adverse proposition, and it appears to
demonstrate that all the arguments urged in favour of
the exception, now under conisideration, if they prove
any thing, prove too much, and obviously extend to
the utter extinction of the rule itself, or the destruction,
can
of every beneficial consequence that the neutral
an
employ
to
unlawful
derive from it. Thus, if it be
arof
armed belligerent carier, then what proportion.
mame'nt or equipment will render it unlawful ? Between oie gun and one hundred, the difference is only
i ,degree, not in principle; and if tt is left to the courtri
of the belligeient to apply the exception to successive
cases as they arise, it vvidently becomes a destroying
principle, which Will loon consume the vitals of the
rule. And the neutral will soon consider it as a snare,
not a privilege..
emAgain ; the proposition is. that the neutral may
attributes
indispensible
the
but
ploy a hostile carrier;
of a state of hostility are the iight of armament, of defence, of attack, an'd of capture ; if then you strip the
belligerent (f any one, or more of these characteristao, the poposition is- falsified, for he can no longer
'

-

OP THE UNIMTD STATES.
le called" a hostile carrier ; he assumes .an amphlbi-

1ti.

ous anomalous character, for which there is no epithet applicable unleis it be that 6f'semi-hosfile. And AtAltmg.
Vrhat btcomes of the interest of the neutral? It is
mockery to hold out to him the right- of employing a'
hostile carrier, when you attach "to the exercise of that
right consequences, which would make it absiurd fbi'
a belligerent to enter intc a charter paity with him.
If resistance, arining, convoying, capturing, be' the
acknowle'.lged attributes and characteristics of the
belligerent, then deprive him of' these- attributesi
and yotu reduce him to a state of rfeutiality, nay',
worse than a state of neutiality ; for he continues liable to all the langet incident to the hostile charictir,
without any of the rights which that character.cohtfers upon him. What belligerent could ever be iA-'
duced to engage in the transpdrtation of neutral goods,
if the consequence of such an undertaking bt that lhe
puts off his own charactet, and assumes that of the
neutral, relinquishes his righ~of arming, or rlesisting
without acquiring theimmunities or protection of the
neutral character.. It is holding out but, a-shadow of
a benefif to the neutral.'
Some confusion is thrown. over this subject by* not
discriminating carefully b tween the ,cases*where 4
•neutraf shipper, and a hostile carrier, are the parties-tb
the coitract,' and those ,inwhich both shipplir aid
carrierare hogtild. In the latter case, the carrier,'.when
armed, may fairly lip -understood. fo have undertaken
to fight' as well as tQ carry. But when a neutral is
the shipper, the carrier, (independently .of speclog
entraot,) is lift io .figlt, -or not, 4 he shall' dtev%

,CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1Ris& prpper., Thus, if a aeutral shipper charter an unarmbel1igerent, he would not be releaseA from his conTheed
; tra ct, should thebelltcerent put arms or men into his
j.
ship,, otherwise taking ordinary and prudent -pregau-tion forthe safefy of his vesse], precautions which
would ihgeneral lessen .the insurance on .the cargo
itself, wouldbe d violation ofthe master's contract.
And on the other'hand, a belligereA tapster wouldbe
under, no.obligation to the neutral tr, fight, if 'met by
.axn enerpy on the ocean, even though particularly'rejlred,by the nutrIal shipper. There is then :nothing
iu.that argument which is,founded on the supposition
ihat the neutral'is assisting in expediting a naval hos.
tile equipment, when he employs a belligerent carrier;
on the contrary, he either embarrasses the -belligerent
in,or detaches hjwx from, the operations of war.
It makes no -difference in my view, whether the right
.ofusing a-hostile carrier, be considered as a votunta9y
concessiou in behalf of neutrals, or as a conclusion
of interna,from those principlgs which form the basis
same
tipna,l aw. We 4ind it eminating from the
it
and
adjudiiation,
and
search
Source as the right of
be
'ever
should
it
is of equal authority. if in practice
pz jonal
found materially detrimental to aknowledged
1
tights, it-may be disavowed -or, relinquished ; or should
to.de,our own legislative power ever tbink proper
its
upon
law
the
olare against the right, it can impose
or
own courts. Bdt until it shall be so relinquished,
all the
abrogated, we are bound to pply 'it with
to
intended
was
it
'beneficial consequences that
produce.
IXOp uot howver,.conider it as,a .mee volimtar

42

101P THE .NITEDSTATES,
-concession in favopur of neutral -commerce. W ere t
-now, for the first time, made a. question whether a
neutral.should, be permitted -to use a hostile carrier,
I should not - hesitate to. deide that it would be exceedin'ly harsh and unreasonable to deny to the neutral the exercise of such.a"right. The laws of war and
of power, already possesses sufficient advantages ovet
the claims of he weak, the wise, and pacific. I am,
in ,sntiment, opposed, to the extension of belligerent
rights. Naval warfare, as sanctioned by the practice
of the world, I consider as the disgrace of modern
Why should private plunder degrade
,civilization.
the privilgges -of a naval commission ? It. is ridieu'lous at this day, to dignify the practice with.he. epithet of reprisal. If it be reprisal, we may .caim all
the benefit of the exarhple of.the savages in our forests, to whom the practice is fainiliarly known$ but
we must yield to them in the reasonahletiess of its
application, for they really do apply the thing tUkeh1
to indemnify the' party injured.- The time was When
war, by. land and by sea, was carried.on upon the
Same principles. The go6d sense of mankind has
lessened its horrors on land, and it is scarcely possible to find any sufficient reason why an analogbius
reformation should not take place, upon the ocean.
,Thepresent time is the. most favourable that has ever
oeurred for effecting thisdesireable change. There is
-1 power organized upon the continent of Europe that
may command 'the gratitude- and'yeneration ot -poste,
It,must
tity by determining on this reformation.
.Ace effect wheA they resolve to euforce it..

1I-S
slA41ant

-CASES IN TIft SUPREM3

COURT

We find the law'of nations unfortunately embarraswith the principle that it is lawful to impose a di.
The
of a
Atalanta. rect' restrailit upon the industry and enterprize
embarrassincidental
an
produce
neutral; in -order to
ment to an enemy. In its original restricted applica-tion, this principle was of undoubted correctness, and
'did little injury ; but in the modern extended use
iWch has been made of it, we see an exemplification
of the difficulty of restraining a belli.;erent in the application of a convenient principle, and an apposite
illustration of one of the objections to admitting the
exception unfavourabile to the use of an armed hostile carrier. ' But surely there must be some limit to
the exercise of this right by a bejligerent. And it
id inciiwbent upon him to show that the restraint imposed upon the neutral, is indispensable to the exercise of his oivn acknowle:ged right, or the punishInent inflicted on him~to be justly due to the violation
of his neutral obligations. Now, what violation of
-belligerent right, dr neutral obligation, can result from
th0 employment of a hostile, -carrier? If employed to
break - blockade, carry goods' that are contraband
of wai,- or engaged in other illicit trade, the'goods
are liable to condemrntion, on principles having no
relation ' to this case. But if empioye I in lawfil commerce, where is the injury done to the belligerent?
There is no partiality exhibited on the part lrf the
neutral ; fir the belligerents are necessarily excluded
'from each others ports,, an d'cannot be employed, except each in the vommerce of his own country; and
so tar from violating any. belligerent right, the peu-

leis.

'sed

OGTHE UNITED ISTATES.
tral tempts the ship of the enemy 'from a place of' 1814
safety to expose hqr to hostile capture, or -detaches
The
ker from warlike operations,and engages her in pur- Atalants.
fluits less detrimental to the interest of her enemy,
than.,cruizing or ,fighting. 'To the'neutral the right
of employing a hostile carrier may be .of vital importiane. The pore of the enemy may 'be his graiary ; he may have no ships of his own, noother carrier
maybe found "there; no 'other permitted to be thus
employed, oy no other serve him as faithfully, or on.as
good term,-. 'So, also,,with regard to the produce of
is 9wa industry, his only Inarket may be in the port
"ofone of the belligerents, and his only means ot access to it through the use. of the carriers of that
port,
A case has been referred to in the argumerit ; the
case of the Fanny in Dodson's Reports; in which the
court of admiralty in tngland granted salvage upon
goods shipped on' board an armed enemy carrier
captured-by an American Priva'teer, an'd 're-captured
by the British. The grouid on which the court, professes to proceed, accordingto 'the report, is'that these
goods w'ere in danger of being condemned in our,
courts,' on the ground that the shipper had quit the'
protection of his neutrality, and resorted to the piotection 'of arms.
Had the questi6n decided in that case been one of
forfeiture, and not of salvage, that decision would have
been in point. But Oven then I shojdld have claimed
the privilege exercised by the learned judge who 'presides in that couit with so 'much usefulness to, hi%
countryi and honour to himself, of foupding my 6wn"

CASCS9 IN THE SUPREME COURT'
Iola,

opinions upon my own researches and resources,
Should a silhilar case ever again occur in' that conrt,
Aiahntl. and, the decisions of this court have passed the Atlantic, thai learned judge will:be called on to acknowledge thtthe danger of condemnation was not
as great as he had imagined ; and that independent of
the question agitated in -this case,, this court would
liave- had respect to the embarrassing state of warfare in which the people of Buenos Ayres were in-volved, and adjudged that the precautions for defenee
-Were intended against their enemies rather than their
friends. With regard to'the award -of salvage, it is
weir known"that the grant of salvage upon the recaptilon of'a neutral was the favourite offspring of that
judge's administration; until then no contribution
had been levied upon-neutral commerce to give' activity to hostil&"enterprise. - When a question of salvage
on such a recapture shall occur in this court those
adjuidications wVill'come under review: but this casecaffnot be considered in. point until this court is called'
on tb decide whether the British0 example shall prevail, or the obvious dictate of reason, that the neutrar
should be liberated and permitted to pursue his
vo yage, gr at least to decide f6r himself in which of*
th0 belligerent,' courts his iights will be most
secure.
Upon the whole, I am fully satisfied that the de-,
cision in the'case of the Nereide, was founded in the
most cofrect principles, and recognize the rule, that
Twding on board an armed belligerent is not, per re, a
cause, of forfeiture ; as not only the most correct

OF TME UNITED STATEf-'-$
on principle, but the most liberal and honarable to" 161t
Houston
the jurisprudence of this country.V..
Farther proof ordered.a
*'Mr. Justicd'TonD and: Mr. JusticeDtVAi.1did not tit in-

(PRACTICE.)

HOUSTON v. MooR
i%. cbuit has no jurisdiction under the 25th section ot the judiciary ad"
of 1789, ch. 20; unless thejudgrnent, or decree, f th6 state court be
ifina judgment or decrec. A juaginnt reversing that oi~an inferiol'
dourt, and awarding a venirk facias de ttovo isnot a finaljudgment.-

ERROR to the supreme court 'of'te state of Peih ,
sylvania.
This was an action of trespass, brought by tie plaihtiff in error against the defendant in error, for levying
a fine ordezed to be collected by. the sentencei 6f a
court martial, under an act of't~ei 1egislattire-of the
state of Pennsylvania, which" was. alleged to' be repugnant to the constitution .and laws of the United'
States. The suit was .commenced- in the court of4
common pleas for the county of tancaster,'in which
court a trial was had, and the jury, under the charge
h
of the court, found a verdict for the plaiutiffCon'whic
56
VoL. III.

Moore.

