CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
1818.

Shephdrd
V.
Hamio*.

(CoMmq0
SHEP9ERD

LAW.)

et al. v.

HAMPTON.

In an action by the vendee for the breach oa contract efsiklb oy the
'vendor, in not delivering the articlo, the measure of damage is the
price dfthe article at the time of the breach ofthe contract, and not
at any subsequent period.
Quire, How far this rtle applies to a case where advances ofmoney
have been made by the purchaser under the contractW

court of Louisiana.
The plaintiffs filed their petition or libel in the "ourt
below*, stating, that on the 12th day of December, 1814,
th~y entered into a contract with the defendant for the
purdhase or I00;000 pounds'weight of cotton to be delivered by the defendant to the plaintiffs on or before
the 15th day of February, ensuing the date 'of said contract, the said cotton to be bf prime quality, and in good
6rder,- and for which the plaintiffs stipulated to pay at
the rate of ten cents pei! French pound; and in case the
price ot cotton, at the time of delivery, should exceed
the above limited price, then the petitioners were to
allow .the commom market price on 50,000 pounds of
paid cottont and alleging a breach of the agreement on
the- part of.the defendant in not delivering the cotton,
&c.
The case agreed stated the contract as set forth in
the petition, and that 49,108 pounds of cottor, were delivered by the defendant undei the contract about
the time mentionea therein, to wit, on the 15th day
ERROR to the district

OF THE UNITED STATES.

201

ofFebruary, 1815, when the highest market, price of 181&.
&$ion at 14 ew-Orleans was 12 cents per pound; that '"h "
the defendant refused tu deliver the remaining 50,892
v.
pounds of cotton ; that for some days after the said 15th HwmPot.
day of February, 1815, the price of cotton remained
stationary at about 1 cents ; that it then began to iises
and continued gradually to rise until the commence
ment of this suit, when the market price wa' 30 cents
per jound, and that the plaintiffs frequently called upon and demanded of the defendant the execution of
said contract between the said 15t. *fFebruary, 1815,
ard the time of bringing the presiii suit, and were
ready and offered to comply with all the stipulations on
their part, which was -efused by the defendant.
g9pon this stqte of the case the defendant contended,
that the rule of damages for the breach of the contract
must be the market pride f cotton on the day the contract ougl.f to have been executed.
The plaintiffs contendea, that they were entitled to
the difference between the price stipulated, and the
highest market price up to the rendition of the judg
mert.'
It was agreed, that if the court should be -ofopinion
that the law is with the defendant, then judgment
should ke entered for the plaintiffs for the sum of 100
dollars damages; but if the court should be of opinion
that the law was with the plaintiffs, then judgment
should be entered for the plaintiffs for the difference
between ten cents, the stipulated price, and thirty
cents per pound, the present market price on the said,
27
VOL. III;

102

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

50,892 pounds of cotton, amounting to 10,178 dollsui
and 40 cents.
The cause was heard, according to the practme in
p.
'M Pt0W the state of Louaisianan, 'by the court below, on the
iase agreed, neither party demanding a jury." Where4818.

" Louisiana, beinq a French
Colony, was originally governed by tI e custom of Paris,and
such royal ordnances as were
;pplicable. In Aunust. 1769,
when Louisiana paid under
itie dominion of Spami, the
Spanish governor O'Reilly,
,published a collection, or ratheian abstract of the adminis•ttative ,egulations adopted itt
the Spanish colonies,* and a
few leading principles containefl'in.the Spanish laws,' referFing for further elucidations to
the text in the Partidas, the
Reccoloacion of the Indies,
&c. but at thesame time, retaining in full force, until'farther orders- (which have never been given, ) the French
laws such as they were at the
time bpain took -possession of
he country. In the mean time
the ailministration of justice
l6eing chiefy ;n'the bands of
Frenchmen, (except in the
city of New-Orlean',) they
continued to be governed al-

together by the French laws,

save only in cases where the
few rule contained verbatim
in OsReilly's ordinance positiVely applied. Thing* remained in this situation until
the government of the United
States took possession of the
province in 1803, when the
increasing -ommerce of NewOrleans brbught into adion
the whole hodTy ofthe Spanish
laws, and especially the laws
of Toro and the ordinance of
Bilboa, which -last i3 regarded
as the text law in commercial matters. Every thing itt
the ancient laws repugnant to
the constitution of the' United
States was taken away, and all
olher subsisting laws were
confirmed by the act of congress ofthe 26th of March,
1804, ch. 391. ; which als.
gave the right of trial by jury
'in all criminal cases ofa capital nature, and in all civil and
criminal cases, if required by
either of the parties. In 1808,
the civil code was adopted
which is principilly a tran-

OF THE UNITED STATES.
upon, after judgment, judgment was entered up for the
plaintiff for the sum of 100 dollars damages, with cost%
and the cause was brought by writ of error to this ShEtphed
°
V1
court.
Mr. Winder for the plaintiffs, contended, that they Feb. 16th.
were entitled to recover the difference between the
stipulated price of the cotton and the higheft market,
price at any time after the contract was made, up to
the rendition of the judgment. He cited the authorities
in the margin.a
No counsel appeared to argue the cause on the other side,
cript of the Code .Napoeonor menced by a petition-or libel
civil code of France. Where setting forth briefly the nathat is silent, its omissions are' ture ofthedemand, to which
supplied by a resort to prin- the defendant answers;"and
ciples derived from the Roman the cause id set down for hearlaw, and the codes founded on ing, without any special or diit, including the laws of Spain, latory pleadings. The trial
f'rance, and the commentaries is byjury, only when'required
upon them The works of el- by either of the parties.
ementary writers, and the Ena Bussey v. D;naldson, 4
lish and American reporters DalU. 306. Douglass et al. v.
ire cited in the courts, not as M'Allister, 9 Cranch. '208.
binding authority, but as the Nelson et al.. v. Morgan, 2
opinions of learned men enti. .7Martin's .Xe&Qrlezans Rp.
tled to rexpeet and attention. 256. Coit v. Lansing,22a.ive'
A regular series of reports of Cases, 215. Shepherd v. Johs-'
the decisions of the supreme son, 2 East..21 1. Fisher Y.
courtof the state is published Prince, 3.Burr. 1863. Whit.
by Mr. Martin, one of the ten v. Fuller, 2 'W. BL 02.
judges. A civil suit is com-

201
16iL
'Patton
"

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.
Mr. Chief Justice MARSHALL delivered the opilca
of the court,

The onlyquestiQn is, whether the price

of the article at the time of the breach 'of the contract,
v,,
Nicholson, or at any subsequent time before suit brqught, constiFA. 191. tates the proper rule of damages in this case. The unaximous opinion, of the court is, that the price of the
article at the time it was to be delivered, is the measure of damages. t'or myself only, I can say that I
sho'uld not think the rule would apply to e case where
edvances of money bad been made by the purehaser
under the cofitract; but I am not aware what would be
she opinion of ile court insuch a case.
Judgment affimed.

jcomxoN LAW.
PATTON v. NxIcSOLSON.
3el1 t
One cftizen of the United States bis no right to purchase ofor
oN
"d
be
to
encmy,
public
the
from
pass
or
-taother, a- license
board an Ameroah vessol.

EzzoR to the circuit court, of the district of Columbia
for the county of Alexandria.
The plaintiff in error declared in assumpsit for that
the deferant, &c. was indebted to the plaintiff in the
sum of 75Q dollars for a certaiu dQcument or pfper

