CASES IN THE SUPREME

TYRT

(C11ANC.FT)1
Lenox
.
L;Nox et al. v. PRour.

Prout

of * promissory note, v ho his been charged by due no
'lice of liedeful;ofl te maker, is no. en itkd to lie protiction of a
s court ofequi y as a surety ; tire holder may procee I against either
at his pleasure, and does not disritarge the ctadat-er, by not itpartly
mi-g, or by counternatding fn cZecution against th,- maker.

the endorser

Bythe statute ofrMar) latd, of1763, ch 23 a. 8. %%hich isrtithaps only
declaratory (f the comMOn law, dn endorser- has- a right to pay the
amount of tho note. or bill to the holder, aml to be sgbrog -ted to all
his righrs by obtaiting an assignment ofitne lIolder'ajudgment agains t
th- maker.
The anstwerofan defendant in chanrery, iliouih lie may be intere'ed to,
if unctn'the whole armount in conitroversy, is conclusive evidence.
ttadicted by the .Lestimony of any witnessin the cause.

'from a decree of the circuit court for thedistrict of Columbia.
The facts of this case were as follow William
Prout, the plaintiff in the court below, on the 29th of
July, 1812; endorsed, without any consideration, a
promissory note made by Lewis Deblois, in his favour,
flr 4,400 dollars payable in thirty days after date.
This note .was discounted by the defendants, as trustees for the late bank of the United S!ates, for the
accommodation aid"use df the maker, and not being
paid, an actijon was brought against him, and another
against the endorser, in the name of the trustees, aifj
judgment rendered therein in the. same circuit court,
in the term of December, 1813.
In the April following,' Prout, fearful of Deblois?
APPEAL

OF TIM UNrrit

STATVS-

failure , called on the defendant Davidson, who was'
agenit of the other defendants- and requested him to

181.

Lenpkt
issue a ftier fircias on the judgment against Deblois,
,
promising to show the marshal property 6r, which Pou-t,
to levy. On the 16th of April, gr thereabouts, Da-"
vidson directed an execution of that kind to issue,
and"Prout, on &eing apprized thereof, offered: to point
out to the marshal prioperty of'the d'efendant,'and
to indernify him for taking and selling- the same,
Btit before: any thing farther was done,; Davidsonr
countermanded this execution, and on the 2d of May,.
1814, or thereabouts, a ca. s. was issued against Defilois by the" clerk thro-gh mistake, and without any
order of Davidson or the other defendants. Thisv
was served on Deblois on the 10th of May, who ai.
ferwards took the benefit of the insolvent laws in
force within the district of- Columbia, the effect of
which was to divide all his property among his credifors, whose demands were very eonsideiable. It appears, from the evidence, probable thai if the fie7rifacias had been pro'secuted to' effect, a great part of th'e
money due on the judgment, against Deblois, 'which
had been recovered on the note endorsed by' Prout,
would have been raised, and the latter, in that case,
would have had to pay but a small sum on the one
against him. But zs matteis stood,.' little or nothing
was expected from the estate of Deblois; and, of'
course, no part of the judgment against Prout could
be satisfied in that way, but the whole still remained
due and unpaid.
The fterifacias appears to have b'een counterma;ndVeX.. 161

SASF9 IN 'THE 'SUPREME 0 .

R7

ed the day after it was received by the marshal, of'
Prout had notice soon alter.
"which
On these facts, the circuit court decreed that the apr.
peflants shofild be perpetually enjoined from proceedPiout.
ing at law on the judgment which thei had obtained,
against Prout, and that they shouM'I also pay him his
costs of suit to be taxe&. From ths decree, the defendants below appealed to this court.
Iss.

. 4Lk1:

Mr. Kei', for the appellants, argued; that this being
a negotiable instrument, the liability of the plaintiff
b low,. after notice of' non-payment by the maker,
was no longer conditional, .and depending on the default of the maker ; so that the holderE of the note
'could- proceed against hiM alone, without taking any
step's against The maker., That, therefore, they were
not bound Co issue the fte, facias against Deblois, on
the ippli4.tion of the plaintiff. That having issued
it, they had, a right to countermand it, provided they
did not place ihe pfaintiff in a worse situation than he
wasrvn before it was issued. That thefi. fa. was not
countermanded %rith any view to injure the plaintiff,
tut because the agent had, ascertained that the trus'toes of the bank were not bound to issue the ft. fa.
in the first instanice, and, that it was neither right nor
safe for th e bank to give thereby a preference to the
plaintiff over other endorsers of Deblois. And that
the plaintiif vas 'not placed'in a worse situation by
countermanding theft. fa. ; but had it, in his power,
'under the act of assembly of Maryland of 1763, ch.
2. to tender the amount of the note to the agent of
thL6ebnk1_and obtain an assignment of the. judgment,,

GlF THE UNITE) STAT.S.
1y vhiA he might have secured, himself, by levying on
the property still in the possession of Deblois.

85
1818.
V.

Mr. Jones and Mr. Law, for the respondent and ProuL
plaintiff below, argued, that the plaintiff being a mere
gratuitous surety, was entitled to the protection of. a
.court of equity. That'even in a court of law,- it had
beepi determined, that where the htlder of a bill gave
an indulgence to the -acceptor. 'fter judgment, the
endorser was discharged.a That of allIforms 'of
suretyship, that by endorsement emphatically entitles
the surety to proteotion.
the relative obligations"
between the holder and endorser require the foimer
in the first instance, to look to the drawer for p-iyment, and to give notice of his default to the endorser. The relief given by courts of equity to sureties
on a bond is derived from the common law principles in favour of endorsers. A surety has a right to
come into equity, and compel the creditor to proceed
against the principal debtor.b' If -the party for.
whose benefit a contract is made prevents its execution, the' contract is rescinded.
The contract bet'ween the holder and endorser is, that the former
shall seek payment of the maker before he resorts
to the endorser. If he disables the maker from
paying, the endorser is discharged. -If
the holder
of the bill, or note, gives time to the acceptor or
maker, in prejudice of the -endorsers, without their
English v. Darley, 2 Bos. 4- Pul.61.
b Nisbet v. Smith, 2 Bro. Ch. Cas. 578
ton, 2 '.T.
Jun. 540.
4%

Recs v. Berrin.

,24
1818.
Lenox
V.
XrPo4.

CASESIN THE SUPREME COURT
concurrence, they will be discharged from all liability, althouch they may have been previously charg.
The doctrine of equied by notice of non-payment.a
ty, that a surety is discharged by any indulgence
of
shown to the principal by the cr.editor in prejudice
suretyof
species
the surety, is applicable to every
the
ship, whether absolute or collateral ; and whether
has
liability of the co-obligors, sureties, or endorsers,
staytime,
giving
If
beed fixed by judgment or not.b
"ingexecution, or taking new security, in consideration
of indulgence, releases the surety, how much more
ought he to be discharged by the countermand of an
execution on which the money might have been levied.
The statute of Maryland is only in affirmance of the
pre-existing rules of equity. Nor. does it apply to this
-case; the issuing of the fierifacias, at the plaintiff's
a
solicitation, being a waiver of all right to demand
compliance with, the act.
Mr. Key, in reply, insisted, that a court of equity
,Would. not relieve in such a case as this, even if the
plaintiff was to be conside'red as a gratuitous "suretyeThat the cases cited of co-obligors, or sureties, ii
'bonds, were not pertinent. This is a commercial cone
aving made default%,
The drawer of the note
,ract.
and the endorser having had legal notice of non-payment, becomes liable absolutely. His engagement
,ceases to be collateral and contingent, and he is conr
-verted into a principal debtor. The p~inctuality of
a Cltty on Bills, 300. .a. cd. 1817.
b. Nisbet v. Smith, 2 Bro. Ch. Cas.'578. Rees v. Berring.- Jun. 540. Law v. The E. I. Company. 4 Ves. 814.
ton. .2 Ys.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
1818.
commercial dealings, and the preservation of papei
Lenox
indulgence
An
so.
be
should
it
that
eredit requires
I.
given to the maker can no more discharge the endorser, when thus fixed, than an indulgence to himwill dis-- Prout.
charge the maker. The law does not require that the
holcer should take any active measures of diligence ;
nor can a single case be found where a court of
equity has compelled him to take any such measzreq.
Mr. Justice LIVINGsTON delivered the opinion of the ,3farc7 91h.
courtand, after stating the facts, proceeded as folThe endormw
lows :
promissowho
The only ground on -%Vhich this decree can be sus-.o
.. I a note,
of
tehbeencharg
by
Davidson
countermand
taiuedis, that the
ed.by due no......
fierifacias which had issued on the judgment againt ti. 9ftue .defaulL
Deblois, absolved the complainant from all liability on ke't
i* not entiled
of a
totheaid
the
on
him
-against
the one which had been recovered
court ofequity
same note ;'and this has been likened to certain cases as a surety.
between principals and sureties; but it does not fall
within any of the rules which it has 'been thought
proper to adopt for the protedfion of the latter. Al-though the original undertaking of an endorser of a
promissory note be contingent, and 'he cannot be
,,charged withouttimely notice of non-payment by the
miaker, yet, when the holder has 'taken ffais precaution,
'and has proceeded to judgment against both of them,
he is at'liberty to issue an execution or not, as he
pleases, on the judgmenc against the maker, without af'fording any cause of complaint to the endorser; or if
he issues an execution,- he is at liberty to make 'choice
ofthe one which he thinks will be most beneficial to-

CASES.IN THE SUPREME COURP

.

himself, without any consultation whatever with the en'dorser on the subject ; nor ought he to be restrained
from counterby any fear of exonerating the endorser,
v.
he may
which
execution
any
of
service
PrOut. manding the
have-issued, and proceeding immediately, if he chooses,
And the r-7 on the judgment against the indorser.
bc
son iq obvious ; for.by the judgment, they have
:gufi
become principal debtors, and if the endorser
:"',,
any injury by the negligence of the judg
it being his dutI ,
creditor, it is clearly his own fault,
1,,
pay the money, in which case, he may take under
r'w:against the
By'the local own direction the judgment obtained
expressly pfovi
seems
rt
Maryland,
of
act
an
By
tker.
a
land,
of the.
declarratory
only
which, is, perhaps,
1818.
Leno*
""n

at'om-ded.
seeths,law
the
mon
to a plaintiff
endorser has a common law, that an endorser may tender
recovered
has
he
which
judkment
a'
of
amount
hetamountothe
a
s h
the note or bill
a note, and obtain an assignment
to the holder, agains the maker of
and to be sub-

oi

case there was a posi.isrighs."But it is alleged; that in this
Mr.
tive agreement on the part of Mr. Davidson with
and
therein,
Prout, to issue afierifacias, and proceed
his
that by not doing so, the latter was thrown off
out
guard, and lost the' opportunity of an indemnity
might
what
deciding
of the estate of Deblois. Without
.issuffihave been the effect of such an .agreement, it
Mr.
cient to 'say that there is no evidence of it.
the
with
agreed
he
that
Davidson' expressly denies
afieri
issue
complainant, or even promised him to
he went
faciasagainst the estate of Deblois, and' that
his lawno farther than to say that he would consult
yer. Not being able immediately tP find, his lawyer,

OF THE-UNITED STAT.S.
and not knowing whether s6me advantage might not be 1818.
taken if he refused to comply with'the coniplainant's
fa
request, he directed a fieri Jaciaato be issued, which)
for reasons assigned by him, was afterwards recalled. .fbhtl
To this answer of Mr. Davidson, it is supposed, by
the claimant's counsel, no credit is due, because hipi
commission on the sum in question gave him an interest
in the controversy, and he might be answerable'-over. to
his principal for his conduct in this business. .Ac,
constat, that he wo.uld be entitled to any commission on
this sum.: It is quite as probable he was acting'under
a fixed salary, which would n~ot be affected by the event
Iof the suit; and as to his respDnsibility, none could. Ox.,
ist, if he had acted within the scope of his withority;
and if he had transcended his power as agent, it would
hardly be fair. that his constituents should suffer by his The anser Of"
act. But qdmitting both objections, and they will notad.eenrd - t in.
effect the verity 6f his answer; 'or if lie hard a direct in- conradicted
byanywtncas
terest in the event of the suit, and to the extent of the-ia 'coPcsive'
whole sum in controversy, still his denial of a faqt di.
rectly alleged in the bill would be'entitled'to' full. crodit, according to the rules of a cOurf of equity,,AWere
not a single witness has been jroduced'to disprove it,
and where the circumstances of the case, "and his.own
conduct, render his account a very. proba'ble one.- if
he-had not been made a, defendolnt, which was not a
very correct course, he Wight
eavbeen examined as a
Vitness for the other defendant, or for the complainant;
but. havine been made a defendant, and being the only
on* acquainted' with the "transactio the court is of

CASgS IN TiE SUPREME COURT
1818.

opinion that his answer, uncontradicted as it is, i%
against the complainant of the non-existence of,
any, such agreement as he alleges, was made between
them, in relation to the issuing of the fieri facias.Nor would Mr. Prout have suffered by the withdrawing
of the fieri faccs,, which is the burthen of his complaint,'if he had' done what he might and ought to have
done. He had sufficient notice of this fact,. before the
o. sa. was served,, to-have ealled' and paid the judg-ment against him, and thus have obtained a controul
over the one which had 'been recovered against Deblois. If he had done this, instead of censuring the
conduct of Davidson,, lie might have issued a'fieri facias himself, and' secured a property, which irit has not
been applied towards his relief, is owing more to his,
own neglect in not paying, in time, a debt justly due
from himpelf, than to any other cause whatever.
A person so regardless of his interest, -s well as du.ty, as Mr. Prout has been, who has not only refused to
pay a note endorsed by him when due, but has put
the holders to the troubler delay, and expence, of pro
eeeding to judgment against him, has but little right to
be dissatisfied, if a court of equity shall not think itself
bound by any extraordinary exertions of its powers,
to extricate him froin a difficulty and loss which he,
might so easily have avoided.
The decree of the circuit court is reversed, and the
complainant's bill must be dismissed, with the costs of
that court, to be paid by the complainant to the defen
dant.
Decree reversed.a

Sproof

Lenox
Prout.

a Vide ante, p. 148. Lanusse vwBarker,. note -a.

