OF THE UNIFED STATES.
1818
(which cannot, all of them, be reconciled,) the court
bill of Olivera
a
endorses
who
person
any
if
that
is of opinion,
Y.
exchange to another, whethet for value, or for the purpose of collection, shall come to the possession thereof Union Ins.
again, he shall be regarded, unless the contrryp- Company.
pear in evidence; as the bonafide holder and proprietor
of such bill, and'shall be entitled to recover, 'ndtwithstanding there may be on it onc'or. more endorsements
in full, subsequent to the one to him, without producing any receipt or enddrsement back froth either of
such endorsees, whose names he may strike from the
bill, or not, as he may think proper.
Judgment affirmed.,

(COMMON

LAW.)

OLIVERA V. THE UNION INSURANCE COMPANI 4
A vessel within a port, blockaded after the commencement of her voyago, and prevented fron proceeding on it, sustains a loss by a peril
within that clause of the policy insuring against th6 "arrests, restraints
1
and detainments of'kings, ' &c. for which the insurers are liable
and if the vcessel so prevented bo neutral, having on board a neutral
cargo, laden before the institution of the blockade, the restraint is
unlawful.
A blockade does not, according to modern usage, extend to a neutral
vessel found in port, nor prevent her coming out. with the carga
which was oti board when the blockade was inetituted.
A technical total loss must continue to the timq of abandonment

184

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

a case where the loss
Quere as to the application of this principle to
of the ommencemade
by a restraint on a blockake, and proof
Swas
to the tirpe of the
continued
it
that
proof
no
ment of the blockade, but
Olivera
abahdonnient?
.
U Iis.

18 1S.

Union

Company.

ERRoRt to the circuit court for the district of Maryland.
On the 29th day of December, in the year 1812, the
plaintiffs, who are Spanish subjects, caused insurance
to be made on the cargo of the brig called the St.
Francis de Assise, "at and from Baltimore to the Havanna." Beside the other perils insured against in the
policy, according to the usual formula, were "all unlawful arrests, restraints, and detainments of all kings,"
&c. The cargo and brig were Spanish property, and
-were regularly documented as such. The vessel sailed from Baltin ore, and -was 'detained by ice till about
the 8th day of February, in the year 1813, when, being
near the mbuth of the Chesapeake bay, the master of
the brig discovered four frigates, which proved to be
a British blockading squadron. -He, however, endeavoured to proceed to sea. While making this attempt,
he was boardedby one of the frigates, the commander
of -which demanded and received the papers belonging
to the vessel, and endorsed on one oT them the wprds
following : "I hereby certify that the bay of Cheapeake
and ports therein, are under a 'strict and rigorous blockade, and you must return to Baltimore, and upon no account whatever atteinpt qhitting or going out of the
said port." The brig returned ; after which the master
made his protest, and gave notice to the agent of the
owners in Baltimore, who abandoned "in due and

OF THE'UNITED STATES.

05

1818.
reasonable tinie." The' underwriters ,refused "topay
the loss on which this suit was brought. "It-appear- Olivera
ed, alsos on the trial, that- the vessel had taken he'
v.
Ins.
Union
the
before
cargo on board, and siled on her.voyage
Company.
the
testimony
thig
On
blockade was. instituted.
plaintiffs pouns el requested the Court tb instruct the
jury that if they believed the matters, so given to them
in evidence the plaintiffs were entitled ,to recover.
The court refused to give tliis instrucion, and the jtry found a verdict for the defendants;, the. judgmenton
which was baought before this court,-on a writ .>f er-,
ror.
Mr. Harper,for theplaintiffs, argued, that a right Pf
abandonment accrudd oi .the' original ei'traint or obb
struction of the voyage by the blockade, without an actual attempt to pass.' Upon re'son and a.utbority, the
interposition of-the blockade was a prevpntion of the','
prosecution of'the voyaie, and consequenlly, a losswithin thEe policy. To constitute a technical total loss,
which wmlild give' a right.to abandon, it ,was necessary,
that the vessel should' expose 'herself to a physical risk,.
or actual- manucapti6n. It was sufficient, that there
was a moral impossibility of proseduting the voyage.
But here was an actual restraint by the vis major in 'endbrsing the vessels papers, and -ordering, ber back to
Baltimore, which would unquestionably justify the
abandonment. The restraint was "unlawfil,' accord-,
ing to the true intent of this qualificatiou .of- the usual
terms of the policy; bedause the blockade was instituted
afterthe cargo was taken on board, and the vessel had
VO. III.
25.
'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT

186
o18I8,
"'

'-

v,
Union 1ns.

a legal right to proceed with it, notwithstanding th.
blockade.a The, case of .arker v Blakesb supports the
doctrine that the insiured may abandon upon a mere
proclamation of blockade, although under the peculiar
circumstances of that case the party was held to have
delayed his abandonment too long. The decisions of
crur own courts 'concur to support thig doctrine.c
Mr. Jones, and Mr. Winder, cottra, contended, that
the. decisions'of this court laid the true foundation for
the termination of the present case The loss did not
fall within the peculiar plause of the policy as to "tunlawfut arrests, restraints, hnd d"etainments." The case
de"of M'Call el al. v. The Maine Insurance Company,
to,
extends
"unlawful',"
termines that the qualification
aind
all the perils mentioneda.to arrests, and restraints,
detainments; and that a blcdckade is not an unlawful
xestraint.d Whether egress in the present case was
iinlwful or not, is. immaterial unless the vessel had
een 'actul1-y detained and carried in for adjudication.
The manner in which the blockade is to be enforced, is
of military discretibn, and a neutral vessel, with a cargo
taken'on board after the commencement of the blockade, 'may be turned-back, thourgh she may not be liable
in
to cobddmnation as prize.- Had the vessel been s
a The'Betsoy, I Rob. 93. the Vrow luditl,, Id. 150. The Potsdam. 4 nob. 89.
b 2 Eamt, 2WS.S: C: 2 Marhal on Ins. App. No. VfLI. p. 8351,
"c Schmidt v. The United Ins. Co. 1 ,Johas. ARe. 24. symonda v..
The United fas. C9, 4 Da 417,.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
for adjudication, the captors would have been excused
from costs and damages, though she might have been

181

1818.
he
Ohiera,
acquitted, and pursued her voyage.
Consequently' " 'v.
the restraint was not unlawful. This is a claim for in- Union' Tns.
demnity on account of a technical toial loss, conse-•compan"°
quential on some'of the perils insured against; a loss
breaking up the voyage, or rendering it-not wuytli .pursuing. But there is no proof on the re~or'd that"the
blockade still continued at the time of the abandonment. Besides the voyage must be completely and entirely broken up. The authorities have settled it that
mere apprehension is no grouind of abandohnent no
loss, quia "timet,is known to the law. In Baiker v.
Blakts, the two circjapstancIes of capture and the supervising bockade, were combined and connected
together to render the voyage not worth pursuing, and
to justify the abandonment. The elementary writers
hiave collected tlie cases concurring to establish the
doctrine that a blockade, or. embargo,6r any other in
iibition 6f .irade will not authorize" an abandonmnent.a
Mr. Harper, in reply. The case of MCCall et al. v.
the Marine Insurance Company, went on t.le ground
that the blockade was lawful, and, therefore, the in-'
ured was held not entitled to recover. But in this
,case, it is contended that the blockade was unlawfullu.
-applied to a neutral vessel attempting to depart with a
cargo taken on board before the conmencement of the
blockade. The right of the neutral to depart is inconsis-"
41

faraka/l onIn.'219. Park ca ins. 223. .61h ed.

1-88
181a.
Olivera
vi
Union Ins.
Company,

,ASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
tent with the pretended right of the' belligerant t6
.prevent his egress
The supposed exemption from costs
p.
and damages on the part of the blockading squadron
would not show that the neutral had noright to proceed, but only that his right was not so manifest and
apparent as to subject the captors' to costs and damages. It was unnecessary for the insured 'to prove tha;
the blockade continued after the vessel was turned back:
The legal presumption is that it still continued; and it
is a publik n6torious, historical fact that it (lid continve. In Barker v. ;Blakes, the court of K. B. merely
state the previous detention by the capture, in order to
show that the party was in fault, in not reaching Havre
befdre the blockadingcommenced. But the main stress
of a
of the opinion tends. to sho* that the institution
,
without
blockade may afford a tround of abandonment
an actual attempt'to enter the blockaded port. The
cases cited by Marshall and Park,are not cases of blockade, but of municipal edicis interdicting tiade with the
ports of the sovereign by whom they were establish-

ed.
Mr. Chief Justice MA.LFHALL delivered the opinion
Feb. 19th.
of the court, and after stating the-facts, proceeded as
follows:
On the part of the plaintiff in error, it has been contended, that the assured have sustained a technical total loss, by a peril'within that clause in the policy,
which insures "against all unlawful arrests, restraints,
.and detainments of kings," &c.

OF THE UNITED STATES.
He contends, Ist.' That a blockade is a "'restraint,"
18.
a foreign power. 2d. That, on a neutral vessel, with Olnvera
a neutral cargo, laden before.the institntion of the block-v.
ade, it is "an utnlawfui restraint."
Union is.
Voimpany.
The question, whether a blockade is a peril insured
against is one on which the court has entertained great
doubts. In considering it, the import of the several
words used in the clause has been examined. It, cer-.
tainly is not "an arrest," nor is it "a detainment."
Each of these terms implies possession of the thing by
the power which arrests or detains; and in the case of a
blockade, the vessel .remains in
possession of the
master. But the court -does not understand the clause
as requiring-a conctirrence of the three terms, in order
to constitute the peril described. They are to be taken
severally; and if a blockade be a "rest 'rait, the insur.
ed are protected against it, although it be neither- an
96arrest," nor "detainment."
,f

-the'

What, then, according to common understandiig,
is the meaning of the ter.'restraint?" Does it imply,
that the limitation, restriction, or confinement, must be
imposed by those who are in possession of the person or
thing which is limited, restricted, "orconfined; or is the
termsatisfied by a restriction, created by the application of external force? If, for example, a town be besieged, and the inhabitants confined within its walls
by the besieging army,, if in attempting to come out,
they are forced backwould it be inaccurate to say they
are rest'ainedwithin these limits? The court believes
it would not; arid, if it would not, then with equal pro.

190

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT.

prit~y may it be said, when a port is blockaded, that
the vessels within are confined, or restrained irom corning out. The blockade force is not.in possession of
v.
vessels inclosed in the harbour, but it acts upon and
the
I'
Uon
Compao restrains them. It is a is major, applied directly and
Itsl.

"

efectually to them, which prevents them from coming
in correct
out of port. This appears to the court to b,.,
blockade,
the
imposing
power
language, "a restraint" of
boarded
is
and when a yessel, attempting to come out,
and turned back, this restrining force is practically applied to such vessel.
Although the word, as usually understood, would
s#em to comprehend the case, yet this meaning cannot
be sustained, if, in policies, it has uniformly received
a different construction. The f6rm of this contract has
been long settled, and the parfies enter into it without
a particulhr consideration of its terms. Consequently,
no received .c6nstruction3 1f those terms ought to be
varied.
A is, however, remarkable, that the industrious
researches of the bar have not produced a single case,
from the English books, in which this question has been
clearly decided. In the case of Barker v. Blakes,
which has been cited and relied on at the bar, one of.
the points made by the counsel for the underwriters
was, that the abandonment was not made in time, and
the court was'of that opiiio. ,Although, in this case
it may fairly be implied, from what was said by the
judge, that a miere blockade is not a peril within the
-policy, still this dois not appear to have been considered, either at the bar or by the bench, as the direct question in the cause, nor was it expressly decided. The

-OFTHE UNITED STATES.
opinionof the court-'was, that the blockade constit~ted
181S.
a total loss, which was occasioned by the detention of
the vessel, but that the abandonment was not xnade
within leasonable time nfter notice of that total loss.-l'n i n
In forming this opiniorrt,,4 had not become nece*ary to Gbrrpany.
inquire 'whether the bT6ckade,. unconnected with the
detention, was, in itself, a peril against w.ich.the pol "
cy provided. The judgment of the court, could not
be in the most remote degree; influep ed by the-result of
this inquiry; and, -consequently, it was noP,'made with
that exactuess of invdstigatio). which woid probably
have been employed, had the case depended on it.
It is also to be observed, that the vessel did not'attem)t
to proceed towards the brockaded port, but lay in Brfi'
tol when the abando'nment was made. The blockading
squadron, therefore, did not act directly on'the vessel,
nor apply to her any physical forc& It is not certain
that such'a circumstance migjt not have materially affected the case.. This court, fherefore, doe&-aotconsider the question as positively decided, in Barker y.,
Blakes.
The deoisions of our own country would be greatly
respected, were they uniformn; but they are in contradiction to each other. fn New-York, it has been. heid,
'hat a blockade is, and in Massachusetts, that itis not,
a peril within the policy. The opinions of the. judges
of both these courts are, on every account, entitled to
'the'highest consideration. -But they oppose each.qth.r,
and are not given in cases p'ecisely similar to that now
before this court. "The. opinion that a blockade "Ws
not a iestraint, was held by'the courts of Massgchusetto;
but was expressect by the very eminent judge who then"

t K

CASES IN. THE SUPREME COURT

pjesided in that court, in a case where the vessel was
not confined within a blockaded port by the direct and
O9yera.
immediate application of the physical force t 'the ves-V.
" ion Tn- sel herself.
Believing this case not tn1aye been expressly deciCompany
181 .

"4'M'

ded the court has inquired hloW far it ought to be influonced by its analogy-to principles whih have been settled.
It has been determined ifi England that if the port for
which a vessel sails be~shut against her by the goverr\ment of the place, it is dot a peril within the.policy. In
.Hadkinson v. Robinson, a vessel bound to Naples was
'carried into a neighbouring port by the-masteT in corsse-,
"Tuence of information re6ived at sea that the port of
Naples was shut agAinst English vessels. In an action
against the underwriters the jury found a verdict for
the derendants, and, on a motion for a new trial, the
%courtsaid "a loss of the voyage to wariant the insured
to abandon must be ocsioned by a peril 'acting upon
the subject matter of the insurance immediately, and
not circuitously,as in the present case. The detention of
the ship at a neutral port, to avoid the danger of entering the port of destination cannot create a total loss
-within the'policy, .because it does not arise from-any
peril insured against'"
It will not be denied that this case applies in principle to the case of a vessel whose voyage is bioken
up by the act of the master on hearing that his port
of destination is blockaded The peril acts directly
on the vessel not more in the- one case than in the
other. But -if, in attempting to pass th blockading
a S Bog. 4r Pta. S88.

OF THE UNITED STATES.

198

1818
squadron, th6 vessel be stopped and turned backj:jfe
onI
directly
act
force is directly applied to h'r, and does
and not circuitously.
Without contesting, or admitting the reasonableness Unioffus
occuiohed Compar.j.
of the opinion, that t l Ips of the voyage
by the' detention of the ship by her master in 'a neutral port is not within the policy, it may well be deniYAd
to 'folo %vas a corrollary from it, that a vessel confined in port by a blockading squadeon, ind actually prevented by that squadron fro~m coming Ot t. does not
sustain the loss of her voyagp from the restrainf of 'a
foreign power, which is a peril insured against.
Lubbock v. Rowcroft, which was deqided at -isi psr
us, is in principle no more Athan the case of -Hadkinson v. Robinson. Having heard that his jOrt of destinaticn was blockaded by, or in possession of, the
enemy, the master stoppe4 in a different port, and the
insured abandoned. The loss was declared to be produced by a peril not within t policy.. I...unnecessary to repeat the observations which were made on
the case of Hadkinson v. Robinson.
An embargo is admitted to be a peril within the policy. But as has bpen already observed., the soveieign
imposing the embargo is virtually in possession of the
vessel, and may, therefore, be said to arrest and detain her. Yet, in.fact, the vessel remains in the actual
possession of the master or owier, and has the iohysical power to sail out and proceed on her voyage. The
application of force is not more direct on a 'vessel
stopped in port by an embargo, than on a vessel stopped in port by a blockading squadron.. The danger of
attempting to violate a blockade is. as great as the
26
VOL. III.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
danger of attempting to violate an embargo. The
1818.
voyage is as conpletely broken up in one case, as in
O e
Olivera
the other, and in both the loss is produced by the act of
v,
s. a sovtreign power. There is gs much reason for inC~ion
surin gainst the one peril aq against the other; and
if the word restraint does not liecessarily imply possvssion of the thing by the restraining power, it must
be construed to compreh'end the -forcible confinement of
a vessel in port, and the forcible prevention of her proeeeding onbher voyage. If so, the blockade isin such
a case a peril within tho policy.
The next point to be decided is the unlawfulness" of
this restraint.
'That a belligerent may lawfully blockade the port,
of his eemy is admitted. But it is also admitted
that this blockade does not, according to modern usage
extend to a neutral vessel, found in port, nor prevent
her coming out with the cargo which was. on board
when the blcekade was instituted. If, then, such a
vessel be restrained from- proceeding -n her voyage by
the blockading squadron, the restraint is unlawful.
,The St, Francis de Assise was so restrained, and her
case is within the policy.
It has been contended that it was the duty of the
neutral master tok show. to the visiting officer 6f the bp1!
ligerent squadron his right of egress, by showing not
only the neutral character of his vessel and cargo, but
that his cargo was taken on board, before the institutioti of the blockade.
This is admitted; and it is believed that the bill of
exception's shows satisfact6rily that these facts were
proved to the visiting officer. It is stated that the

OF THE UNITED STATES.
18I
vessel and cargo were regularly docutMented ; that 'he
papers were shown, and that the cargo was put on Olivera
board, and the.vessel had actually sailed on her voy".
Union Ing.
age, before the institution of the blockade. "
Comay
There is, however, amaterial fact which is nqstated
mply.
in the bill of exceptions -with perfect clearness. The
loss, in this case, is'technical, and the hourt has decided that such loss mu#4 continue to the time of abandonment.a It is not necessary that it should bd known
to exist at time of abandonment, for that isimpossible;
but that.it should actually ex%(t ; a fact which admjits of
affirmative or negative proof at the trial of the cause.
Upon theapplication of this principle to this case,
much diversity of opinion has prevailed. One judge is
,f pinion that the rule, hiving been laid down in a
case of capture, is inappl~cable to a loss sustained by
a blockade. Two judgesa re of opiniort that proof of
the existence of'the blockade having been made by the
plaintiff, his case is complete ; land that the proof that
it was raised before the abandonment ought to come
from the other side. k fourth judge-is'of opinion, that
connecting with the principle last' mentioned, the fact
stated in the bill of exceptions that the abandonment
was "in. due and reasonable time," it must be taken to
have been made during the existence of the technical'
loss. Four judges, therefore, concur in the opinion
that the plaintiffs are entitled to recover ; but as theY
form this opinion on different principles, nothing biut
the case itself is decided : That is, that a vessel within
; portblockaded after the commencement of her voyage,
--

a See Rhinelander v. The ware Ins. Com.1d. 602. AlexIns. Com. of Pennsylvania, 4 ander v. The Baltimore Ins.
Cranch, 29. Marshall v. Dela- Com. Id. 370.

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
and prevented from proceeding on it, sustains a loss by
*a peril within the policy ; and if the vessel so preventOlivera
ed, be a neutral, having on board a neutral, cargo reV.
Union Ins. ceived before the institution of the blockade, the reCompany,straint is unlawful.
Judgment reversed.
1818.

a On the queition of bloqk- which it is not customary to
ade three things must be~pro- giveany notice: that conseved : 1st the existence of an qiently, the presence of the
actual blockad6; .dly, The blockading force is the natural
knowledge of the patty; a~d criterioh by which the neutral
3dly. some act of',violation, is enabled to osc6rtain the xeither by going in, or by com- istence of the blockade at any
inig out with a cargo laden af- given.,period, in like manner as
ter the. commencement of the actual investment-of a beThe Betsey, 1 sieged place is the evidence by
•blockade.
which we decide whether the
93.
Rob.
which may be commensiege,
courts
and
The government
recommenced, and
raised,
ced,
conhave
of the United, States
-iscontinued or
aagain,
raised
ports
stantly maintaifed, "that
a mere noofcourse
that
;
not
a
pot actually- blockaded by
minister,
neutral
to
a
tification
present,, adequate, stationary
as afupon,
relied
be
not
shall
force, employed by the power
the
of
knowledge
with
fecting
which attacks them, shall nt
blockthe
of
existence
actual
be considered as shut to neutral trade in articles not con- ade, either'his government or
traband of war; that, though its citizens; that a vessel clearit is usual for a belligerent to ed or bound to a blockaded
give notice to neutral nations, port, shall not be considered
when he intends to institute a as violating.in any manner, the
blocka de;,it is possible that he blockade, unless, on lit, apmay. not act upon his intention
at all, or that he may execute
it insufficiently, or that lie may
discontinue his blockade, of'

proach towards such port, she
shall haye been previously
warned not to enter it; that
this view of the law, in itself

OF THE UNITED STATES.,
perfeety correct, is peculiarly The United Insurance Comp T 1918.
lj
Rep. 38.
V 7VJohns.
i
Oliygi.a
tonations,situated at ny,
iMportant,"V,.
In the case of Fitzsimmons
a great distance from the belligerent'parties, .and, 'therefore, v. The Newport insurance Union Ins.
incapable. of obtaining other company, (4 Cranch, 18b. Company
than tardy' information of-the 198.) it'was laid down by this
actual 'state of their ports;- court, that the 18th article of
that whole coasts and countries -thetreaty of 1794, between the
shall not be declared (for they United States and Great Britcan never be more than declar- ain, seems to be a correct exed) to be in a state of block- posilion.of the lawv of nations,
ade, und thus the right of and'is admitted by the parties
blockade converted into the to the treaty, as between
means of extinguishing the themselves, to be a correqt
trade of neutral nations; and exposition of the law. Qr tot
lastly, that every blockade constitute a rule in that plav.:
shall be impartial in its oper. of it. "Neither the law of
ation, or , in other words, shall nations, nor the treaty, admits
not open and shut for ihe con- of the condemnation of a neuvenience of the party that in- tral ves elfor the,intentioh-to
5titutes it, and at the same enter a blockaded port untime repel the commerce of the corieeted with any fact. Sailrest of the world, so as to. be- ing for a blockaded portknowcome the odious instrument -ing it to be blockaded, haq
of an unjust monopoly, instead' been in some engli§h casep
of a measure of honourable construed into an afetnpt, to
war." For the condct of the enter that port, qnd has, hr.,government in this respect, see fore, been "adjudged a breacli
the documents in the Appendix of the blockade from the .dJto this volume, NOTE 1."The parture lf the vessel.' .Y-it4decisions of the courts, are out giving any opinion on that
collected in Mr. Condy's edi- point, it may he obsorved,.that
tion of Marshall on Insurance in such cases, the fa# ofsa4Il
vou 1. p. 81. note (3.) To ing is coupled with the inen.
the cases there cited, add the iionand the sentence of confollowing: Williams v. Smith, demnationis founded on an
t-Caines' Rep. I Radcliff'v. * actual breach of blockade.t'

CASES IN THE SUPREME COURT
181.
Olivera

4 is impossible to read that the blockade, a neutral is no
"It
tq make any
instrument, (the treaty) with- longer at libertyport.
TheBetout perceiving a clear inten- purchase in that

Union Ins. tion in the parties to it, that
Company. after notice of the blockade,
an attempt to enter the port
must be made, in order to subjbct the vessel to'confiscation.
By the language of the treaty
it would appear, that a second
attempt to enter theqport must
be made, in order :db subject
the vessel to confiscation."
"It is agreed," says that instsument, "that every vessel
so circumstanced" (that is,
every vessel sailing for the

blockaded port, without knowledge of the' blockade) "may
be turned av -ayfrom such port
or place, but she shall not be
detained, nor her cargo, if not
contraband, be confiscated,
unless after notice be shall
again attempt to enter."
As to violating a blockade by
coming out with a .argo, the
time of shipment is very material, for although it might be
hIardto refuse a neutral liberty
to retire with a cargo already
laden, and by that act already
become neutral property; yet
after, the commencement of
a blockade, a neutral cannot
be allo'wed to interpose in any
way to assist the exportationof
thr property of the ,enemy.
After the .commencement of

sey, 1. Rob. 93. The Frederick Molke,ld.72. The Neptunus, Id. 180. A neutralship departing can only take away a
cargo bonayfde purchased and
delivered before the cornmencement of the blockade:
if she afterwards take on board
a cargo, it is a violation of the
The Vrow Ju
blockade.
dith, Id. 1Rob. 150. The Rolla, 6.Rob. 364. Whereaship
was transferred from one.neutral merchant to another in a

blockaded port,'and sailed out
in ballast, she was determined
not to have violated the blockade. The Potsdam, 4 Rob. 39.
The JuffirouwMaria Schrceder,
.Id. note (a.) But a ship which
had been purchased by a neutral of the enemy in a blockas
ded port. and" sailed from
thence on a voyage to the neutral country, was held liable
to condemnation. The General Hamilton, 6 Rob. 61. And
where the yessel was captured
on a voyage to the blockaded
port, in ballast, she having
sailed for the purpose of bring.
ing away goods which had become the property of neutral
merchants 'before the'date of
the blockade, she was held 1iabletocondemnatioa. Therule

OF THE UNITED STATES.
ofblockade permitj an egress tion. The Maria, 6 Rob. 201.
1818.
toxhips innocently in the port The penalty for a breach 'of
before the restriction was im-' l3lockade is remitted by the Olivera
" V.
posed, and even ivith cargoes, raisingot'theblockadebetween Union lus.
if p~eviously laden; but in the the time of sailing from the Company.
case of ingress, there is not the port and the capture. - When
same reason foi" indulgence; the blockade is raised, a veil is
there can be no surprise upon thrown over every thing that
the parties, Arnd, therefore, has been done,'and the vessel
nothing short of a physical me- is no longer taken inz delido.
cessity is admitted as an ade- The deliAum completed at one
quate excuse for making thp period i l'subsequent events
alttempt ofentry. The Comet, entirely done away. The LiEdwards, 32.
A maritime sette, 6 Rob. 387. A neutral
blockade 'is not violated by ship coming out of a blockaded
sendinggoodsto the blockaded port in consequence of a ruport, or by bringing them from mour that hostilities were likePe same, through the interior ly'o take place between the
canal navigation of thr court- enemy and the country to
try. Amere maratim'block- which the ship' belongs is not
ado, effected by a force oper- liable to condemnatio'n,though
ating'only at pea, can have no' laden with a cargo, where'the
dperation upon the interior regulationsof the enemy would
communications of the port. not permit a departure in'balThe Ocean, 3Rob. 297. The last. 'The Drie Vrienden,
Stert, 4 Rob.' 65. But goods Dodson, 269. Butthe danger
shipped in a river, having been of seizure and confiscation by
previously sent in lighters theenemy, must be immediate
along the coast from the block- -and pressing. The mere apaded port, and under charter- 'prehension of possible and reparty with the ship' proceeding' mote dauger. wiJl not ju!tify
also from the blockaded port bringing a cargo out of a
in ballastto take them on hnard blockaded port. The,Wasser
were held liable to, config-a- 'Hundt, Id. 270. note

