.574

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

allowed to the grade or rank which they held at the date of
their retirement. But we have seen that Brown did not belong
to the general list of retired officers, but to a distinct class,
namely, officers retired on furlough pay. His case, therefore,
fell under the enactments embodied in § 1593 of the Revised
Statutes, which fixed his pay at one-half that to which he would
have been entitled if on leave of absence on the active list.
This is the rate at which he has been paid. It is next said
that, conceding that his pay was fixed by § 1593, he should,
after his retirement, have received the increase of pay allowed
officers on the active list for length of service by § 1556 of the
Revised Statutes, page 267, commonly known as longevity pay,
which, after July 1, 1875, would have entitled him to $600 per
annum instead of the $500 which he actually received. This
last contention has been decided adversely to the view of the
appellant by this court, at the present term, in the case of
Thornley v. United States, ante, page 310. We are, therefore,
of opinion that Brown was paid, in his lifetime, all that he was
entitled to receive under the laws then in force. The judgment
of the Court of Claims dismissing his petition was therefore
right, and is
Affirmed.
CHICAGO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. NTEEDLES,
Auditor.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COUdT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Argued January 29, 1885.-Decided March 2, 1885.

When the final judgment of a State court necessarily involves an adjudication
of a claim, made therein, that a statute of the State is in derogation of
rights secured to a party by the Constitution, this court has jurisdiction of
the cause in error, although the State court did not in terms pass upon
the point.
A grant of corporate franchises is necessarily subject to the condition that the
privileges and franchises conferred shall not be abused ; or employed to defeat the ends for which they were conferred ; and that when abused or
misemployed, they may be withdrawn by proceedings consistent with law.

'CHICAGO LIFE INS. CO. v. NEEDLES.
Opinion of the Court.
.corporation is subject to such reasonable regulations, as the legislature may
from time to time prescribe, as to the general conduct of its affairs, serving
only to secure the ends for which it was created, and not materially interfering with the. privileges granted to it.
The establishment against a corporation, before a judicial tribunal, in which
opportunity for defence is afforded, that it is insolvent; or that its condition
is such as to render its continuance in business hazardeus to the public, or
to those who do business with it; or that it has exceeded its corporate
powers ; or that it has violated the rules, restrictions, or conditions prescribed by law; constitute sufficient reason for the State which created it
to reclaim the franchises and privileges granted to it.
An adjudication by a competent tribunal, after full opportunity for defence,
that a corporation against which the foregoing grounds have been established, shall no longer enjoy its corporate franchises and privileges, does
not deprive it of its property without due process of law, or deny to it .the
equal piotection of the laws.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Yr. C. C. Bonney for plaintiff in error.
Xr. J. L. High (Mr. E B.
fendant in error.

kerman was with him) for de-

MR. JusricE HA .LAN delivered the opinion of the court.

By an act of the -General Assembly of Illinois, approved
February 16, 1865, certain named persons were created a body
politic-and corporate by the name of the Traveller's Insurance
Company, with authority to carry on the business of insuring
persons against the accidental loss of life or personal injury
sustained while travelling by railways, steamers, and other
modes of conveyance. Subsequently, by an act approved
February 21, 1867,-the provisions of which were formally
accepted by the company--its name was changed to that of
the Chicago Life Insurance Company, and it was invested with
power to make insurance upon the lives of individuals, and of
persons connected by marital relations to those applying for
insurance, or in whom the applicant had a pecuniary interest
as creditor or otherwise; "to secure trustd, grants, annuities,
and endowments, ajid purchase the same, in such manner, and
for such premiums and considerations as the board of directors

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

or executive committee shall direct." , That, as well as the
original act, was declared to be a public act, to be liberally
construed for the purposes therein mentioned.
A general law of the State, approved March 26, 1869. and
which 'took effect July 1, 1869, entitled "An Act to organize
and regulate the business of life insurance," provides (§ 10):
"1When the actual funds of any life insurance company doing
business in this State are not bf a net value equal to the net
value of its policies, according to the 'combined experience'
or 'actuaries' rate of mortality, with interest at four per
centum per annum, it shall be the duty of the auditor to give
notice to* such company and its'agents to discontinue issuing
new policies within the State until such time as its funds have
become equal to its liabilities, valuing its policies as aforesaid.
Any officer or agent who, after such notice has been given,
issues or delivers a new policy from and on behalf of such
company before its funds have become equal to its liabilities as
aforesaid, shall forfeit, for each offence, a sum not exceeding
one thousand dollars." The same statute requires, among
other things, every life insurance company incorporated in
Illinois to transmit to the auditor, on or before the first day of
March, in each year, a sworn statement of its business, standing, and affairs, in the form prescribed or authorized by law
and adapted to its business; empowers that officer to address
inquiries to any company in relation to its doings or condition,
or to any other matter connected with its transactions, to
which it was required to make prompt reply; and makes it his
duty to make, or cause to be made, an examination of its condition and affairs, whenever he deems it expedient to do so, or
whenever he has good reason to suspect the correctness of any
annual statement, or that its affairs are in an unsound condition. The provisions, relating to life insurance companies,
incorporated in other States, and doing business in Illinois need
not be here examined, or their effect determined.
By another general statute, approved February 11, 1874, in
force July 1, 1874, it is provided as follows:
"SEC. 1. If the auditor of State, upon examination of any

insurance company incorporated in this State, is of the opinion

CHICAGO LIFE INS. CO. v. NEEDLES.
Opinion of the Court.

that it is insolvent, or that its condition is such as to render
its further continuance in business hazardous to the insured
therein, or to the public, or that it has failed to comply with
the rules, restrictions or conditions provided bT law, or has exceeded, or is exceeding its corporate powers, he shall apply by
petition to a judge of any Circuit Court of this State to issue
an injunction, .restraining such company, in whole or in part,
from further proceeding with its business, until a full hearing
can be had, or otherwise, as he may direct. It shall be discretionary with such judge, either to issue said injunction
forthwith, or to grant an order for such company, upon such
notice as he may prescribe, to show cause why said injunction
should not issue, or to cause a hearing to be had on complaint
and answer, or otherwise, as in ordinary proceedings in equity;
before determining whether an injunction shall be issued. He
may in all such cases make such orders and decrees, from time
to time, as the exigencies and equities of the case may require,
and in any case, after a full hearing of all parties interested, may
dissolve, modify or perpetuate such injunction, and'make all such
orders and decrees as may be needful to suspend, restrain or
prohibit the further continuance of the business of the company."
"Sw. 5. When the charter of any such- insurance company
expires, is forfeited, or annulled, or the corporation is restrained
from further prosecution of its business, or is dissolved, as
hereinbefore provided, the court, on application of the auditor,
or of a member, stockholder or creditor, may, at any time be,
fore the expiration of said two years, appoint one or more
persons to be receivers, to take charge of the estate and effects
of the company, including such securities as may be deposited
with the auditor or tfeasurer of State, and to collect the debts
due, and property belonging to it, with power to prosecute and
defend suits in the name of the corporation, or in their own
names, to appoint agents under them, and do all other acts
necessary for the collection, marshalling and distributing of the
assets of the company, and the closing of its concerns; and,
when necessary for the final settlement of its unfinished business, the powers of such receivers may be continued as long as
the court deems necessary therefor."
vo&. cxm--87

578

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 9. The mode of summoning parties. into court, the
rules of practice, course of procedurL- and powers of courts, in
cases arising under this act, shall be the same as in ordinary
proceedings in equity in this State, except as herein otherwise
provided."
Under the authority conferred by the latter statute the
auditor caused an examination to be macle, by the chief clerk
of the insurance department of the State, into the condition of
this 3ompany. That officer reported that it had been doing a
losing business for several years, was insolvent within the
meaning of the statute, and that immediate steps should be
taken to appoint a receiver, to the end that the affairs of .the
company be wound up as quickly as possible, as being for the
best interests of its policy-holders. As the result of that exanination, the present proceedings were commenced by the
auditor in the Circuit Court of Cook County under the said act
of 1874. The petition filed by him shows that, in his opinion,
the condition of the company rendered its further continuance
in business hazardous to the insured. He prayed that the
company be enjoined from further prosecuting its business;
that a receiver be appointed to take charge of its real estate
and effects; and that such other relief be granted as should be
meet. An injunction was issued, and a receiver appointed,
with authority to take possession of the property of the company, the latter being directed to execute all conveyances
necessary to vest in him full title to all its property, assets and
choses in action. The company, by its answer, put the plaintiff
on proof of all the material allegations of the petition. At
the final hearing, it moved the court, upon written grounds,
for a final decree in' its behalf; one of which was, that the
statutes of the State, under which these proceedings were had,
were in violation of the Constitution of the United States, in
that they impaired the obligation of the contract between the
State and the company, as well as of the contracts between
the company and its policy-holders and creditors.
This motion was denied, and a final judgment rendered perpetually enjoining the company from further prosecution of
its business. From that judgment a writ of error w&as prose-

CHICAGO LIFE INS. CO. v. NEEDLES.
Opinion of the Court.

cuted to the Supreme Court of the State, where, among other
things, was assigned for error the refusal of the court of
original jurisdiction to adjudge that the said statutes of Illinois
were in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
The judg ent of the inferior court was, in all things, affirmed
by the Supreme Court of the State,.,and from that judgment
of affirmance the present writ of error is prosecuted.
The Supreme Court of Illinois did not, in terms, pass upon
the claim distinctly made there, as in the court of original jurisdiction, that the statutes in question were in derogation of
rights and privileges secured to appellant -by the Constitution
of the United States. But the final judgment necessarily involved an adjudication of that claim; for if the statutes upon
the authority of which alone the. auditor of state proceeded,.
are repugnant to the National Constitution, that judgment could
not properly have been rendered. 'This court, therefore, has jurisdiction to inquire whether any right or privilege protected by
the Constitution of the United States, has been withheld or
denied by the judgment below. And our jurisdiction is not
defeated, because it may appear, upon examination'of this
federal question, that the statutes of Illinois are not repugnant
to the provisions of that instrument. Such an examination
itself involves the exercise of jurisdiction. The motion to dismiss the writ of error upon the ground that the record does
not raise any question of a federal nature must, therefore, be
d&nied.
The case upon the merits, so far as they involve any question
of which this court may take cognizance, is within a very narrow compass. The main proposition of the counsel is that the
obligation of the contract which the company had with the
State, in its original and amended charter, will be impaired, if
that company be held subject to the operation of subsequent
statutes, regulating the business of life insurance and authorizing the courts, in certain contingencies, to suspend, restrain, or
prohibit insurance companies incorporated in Illinois from
further continuance in business. This position cannot be sustained, consistently with the power which the State has, and,
upon every ground of public policy, must always have, over

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

corporations of her own creation. Nor is it justified by any
reasonable interpretation of the language of the company's
charter. The right of the plaintiff in error to exist as a corporation, and its authority, in that capa6ity, tp conduct the yarticular business for which it was created, were granted, subject
to the conditiol that the privileges and fianchises conferred
upon it should not be abused, or so employed as to defeat the
ends for which it was established, and that, when so -abused or
misemployed, they might be withdrawn or reclaimed by the
*State, in such way and by such modes of procedure as were consistent with law. Although no such condition isexpressed in
the company's charter, it.
is necessarily implied in.every grant
of corporate existence. Terrett v. Taylar, 9 Cranch, 43, 51;
Angell & Ames on Corporations, 9th Edit. § 774, note.
Equally. implied, in our judgment, is the condition that the
corporation shall be subject to such reasonable regulations, in
respect to the general conduct of its affairs, as the legislature
may, from time to time, prescribe, which do not materially
interfere with or-obstruct the substantial enjoyment of the
privileges the State has granted, and serve only tP secure the
ends for which the corporation was created. Sinking Fund
Cases, 99 U. S. 68, '0; Commonwealh-'v. Favners' &.Mechanics' Bank, 21 Pick. 542; Comme~rial -Rank v. .isssippi ,
4 Sm. & Marsh. 497, 503. If this condition be not necessarily
implied, then the creation of corporations, with rights and franchises which do not belong to individual -citizens, may become
dangerous to the public welfare thro~gh the igirorance, or
misconduct, or fraud of* those to whose management their
affairs are ifitrusted. It would be extraordinary if the legislative department of a government, charged wIth the duty of
enacting such laws as may promote the health, the moials, and
the prosperity of the people; might not, when unrestrained
by constitutional limitations upon its authority,- provide, by
reasonable regulations, against the misuse of special corporate,
privileges which it has granted, and which could not, .except by
its sanction, express or implied, have been exercised at all.
In the present case it is claimed by the State that the Chicago
Life Insurance Company was never solvent at any time after
-

CHICAGO LIFE INS. CO. v. NEEDLES.

.581

Opinion of the Court.

its original organization; that only ten per cent., of its authorized capital stock was ever paid in; that stock subscription
notes, representing unpaid subscriptions, were ingeniously made
payable on demand, with interest after such demand, and that
no demand havifig been made, no interest accrued; that, nevertheless, the verified reports of the company to the State indicated that its capital stock was fully paid up in cash, thus leading the public and the insured to believe that the stock was
paid up and invested in interest-bearing securities; that large
dividends were annually paid to stockholders from the earnings
of the company, which, consistently with an honest exercise of
its franchises and privileges, and with its duty to policy-holders,
should not have been paid; that interest upon collateiral securities deposited by stockholders owing subscriptions was received
by the stockholders themselves ; that the annual dividends paid
to stockholders were in direct violation of the company's bylaws : that the annual reports to the auditor scheduled large
amounts of assets and securities as the property of the corporation, when, in fact, they were the property of individuals; that
such reports falsely magnified the receipts of the company and
misstated its disbursements; and that its last annual report included, among its securities, about $80,000 of mortgages which
were not the property of the company. These statements,
counsel for the State claim, are fully sustained by the evidence
in the cause, while counsel for the company, with equal emphasis, contends that*the showing made is all that could be
desired in a corporation managed by careful, honest directors.
We express no opinion as to the correctness of either of these
opposing views; for, they refer to matters that do *notnecessa
rily involve the validity of the statutes which, it is contended,
violate the National Constitution; they relate only to the manner in which the company has exercised its corporate powers,
and do not involve any question of a federal nature. It is not
competent, under existing laws, for this court 'to inquire
whether the State court correctly interpreted the evidence as
to the company's insolvency; nor whethbr the facts make a
case which, under the statute of 1874, required or permitted a
judgment perpetually enjoining it from doing any further busi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of tne Court.

ness. We are restricted by the settled limits of our jurisdiction
to the specific inquiry, whether the statutes themselves, upon
which the judgment below rests, impair the obligation of any
contract which the company, or its policy-holders, had with the
State, or infringe any right secured by the National Constitution. Raibpoad Co. v. Rock, 4 Wall. 177, 180; Enox v. Exchange Bank, 12 Wall. 379, 383. It is only as bearing upon the
question of the power of the State-without any express reservation to that end having been made in the charter of the
company-to subject it to such regulations as those established
by the act of 1869, or to compel it to cease doing business
when the circumstances exist which are set out in the act of
1874, that we have referred to, the facts which counsel for the
State contend are fully established by the evidence. If the
State had no such power, ihen the statutes under which she
proceeds would impair the contract -vhich the company had
wth her by its charter., But can it be possible that the State,
which brought this corporation into existence for the purpose
of conducting the business of life insurance, is powerless to
protect the people against it, when-assuming, as we must, the
facts to be such as the judgment below implies-its further
continuance in business would defeat the object of its creation,
and be a fraud upon the public, and on its creditors and policyholders? Did the company, by its charter, have a contract
that it should, without reference to the will of the State, or the
public in-erests, exercise the franchises granted by the State
after it became insolvent and consequently unable to meet tne
obligations which, as a corporation, under the sanction of the
State, it had assumed to its policy-holders? Our answer to
these questions is sufficiently indicated by what -has been said.
The act of 1869 does not contain any regulation respecting the
affairs of any corporation of Illinois which is not reasonable in
its character, or which is not promotive of the interests of all
concerfied in its management. It only guards against mismanagement and misconduct; its requirements constitute reasonable regulations of the business of such local corporations; it
does not impair the obligation of any contract 'which this company had with the. State; the conditions imposed upon the

CHICAGO LIFE INS. CO. v. NEEDLES.
.Opinion of the Court.

rights of the company to continue the issuing of policies are
neither arbitrary nor oppressive.
The same general observations apply to the act of 1874,
which, recognizing the contract right of the company to carry
on business as a corporation, does not, by a legislative decree
merely, based upon the exp
_arte representations of public officers, assume to withdraw that right. There is no denial, as
counsel supposes, of the equal protection of the laws, nor any
deprivation of property without due process of law; for, that
statute authorizes a public officer to bring the company before
a judicial tribunal, which, after full opportunity for defence,
may determine whether it is insolvent, or its condition such as
to render its continuance in business hazardous to the insured
or to the public, pr whether it has exceeded its corporate powers, or violated the rules, restrictions or conditions prescribed
by law; grounds which, if established, constitute sufficient reason why the corpQrate franchises -and privileges grdnted by
the State should be no longer enjoyed., Terrett v. Taylor, Ubi
8upra; 2 Kents Com. 304, 312; &ee -iBloom,5 Johns. Ch.
366, 379; Commonwealth v. Favorers' & Jfeohanic' Bank, 21
Pick. 542. See also Angell & Ames on Corporations, § 774
and note, 9th Ed. That a suit, for such purposes, might be
instituted if, in the opinion of the auditor of state, any of those
grounds existed, affords no justification to characterize this
proceeding as harsh or arbitrary; for, at last, the final judgment of the court must depend upon the facts as established
by competent evidence, and not upon the mere opinion of that
officer. Indeed, the existence of such an opinion, upon the,
part of that officer, as a condition of his right to institute the
proceedings prescribed by the act of 1874, is in the interest of
the corporations embraced by its provisions; for it furnishes
some protection against hasty- or oppressive action against
them.
These views are strengthened by the company's acceptance
of the amended charter granted in 1867. The fifth section of
that act is in these words: "This act and the act to which
this is an amendment shall not be deemed to exempt said company from the operation of such general laws as may be here-

'584

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

'after enacted by the General Assembly on the subject of life
insurance." That section may not be equiyalent to a reservation of the riglit of the legislature to alter, amend, or repeal
the original charter at pleasure; and, if it be admitted that the
company, prior to that amendment, could not have been subjected to the regulations prescribed by the acts of 1869 and
1874, yet it was entirely competent for it to waive-as, by its
acceptance of the amended charter, it did waive-any such
exemption, ad, in consideration of the grant of additional
powers, or without any consideration of that character, agree
to come under the general laws on the subject of the business
in which it was engaged, which did not materially impair its
right to carry on that business, or take from it any substantial
privilege conferred by the original charter., It took the additional rights given by the act of 1867, subject to the condition
imposed by its fifth section.
•It is further contended that the State enactments in question
impair the obligation of the contracts which the company has
made with its creditors and policy-holders. To this it is suffi#m
cient to reply, in the language of the court in Xum
v. Potomac Co., 8 Pet. 281, 287, where it was said: "A corporation, by the very terms and nature of its political existence, is
subject to a dissolution, by a surrender of its corporate franchises, and by a forfeiture of them for wilful misuse and nonuse. Every creditor must be presumed to understand the nature
and incidents of such a body politic, and to contract with reference to them. And it would be 4 doctrine new in the law,
that - the existence of a private contract of the corporation
;ould force upon it a perpetuity of existence, contrary to public policy, and the nature and objects of its charter." The
contracts of policy-holders and creditors are not annihilated by
sqch a judgment as was rendered below ; for, to the extent that
the company has any property or Assets, .their interests can be
protected, and are protected by that judgment. The action of
the State may or may not have affected the intrinsic value of
the company's policies; that would-depend somewhat on the
manner in which its affairs have been conducted, upon. the
amount of profits it has realized from'business, and up6h its act-

PEARCE v. HAM.

-585

Syllabus.

ual condition when this suit was instituted; but the State did
not, by granting the original and amended charter, preclude
herself from seeking, by proper judicial proceedings, to reclaim
the franchises and privileges she had given, when they should
be so misused as to defeat the objects of her grant, or when the
company had become insolvent so as not to be able to meet the
obligations which, under the authority of the State, it had assumed to policy-holders and creditors.
The whole argument in behalf of the company proceeds upon
the erroneous assumption that this court has authority to determine whether the facts make a case under the statutes of
1869 and 1874, and if it be found they did not, that it must
enforce the right of the company to continue in business, despite
the final judgment to the contrary by the courts of the State
which created it; whereas, we have only to inquire whether
the statutes in question impair the obligation of any contract
which the company has with the State, or violate any other
provision of the National Constitution. Being of opinion that
they are not open to any objection of that character, the judgment must be affirmed without any reference to the weight
of the evidence upon any issue of fact made by the pleadings.
Jdgrzent aflrmed.

PEA-RCE & Another v. IM
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted January 9, 1585.-Decided March 2,188.

F contracted with a county to construct a public building, and gave bond with
K as surety for the performance of the contract. F abandoned the contract. After procuring some modifications in ft at request of H, It as.
signed the contract to P and H as partners with equal interests. P and
H agreed with W to construct the building. H then left the vicinity
and engaged in other work elsewhere. W constructed the building. K
received the compensation under the original contract, paid W in -full

