MORGAN v.

TAMTET.

Opinion of the Court.

MORGAN, Administrator, & Others v. HAMLET & Another.
APPEAT FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
]tASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Argued January 30, 1885.-DeIded March 2,1885.

The statute oi Arkansas thet "All demands not exhibited to the executor or
administrator, as required by this act, before the end of two years from the
granting of letters, shall be forever barred"-begins, on the granting of letters of administration, to run against persons under age, out of the State
with no guardian appointed within the State, and whose claims are alleged
to be founded in frauds which were not discovered until after the expiration of the two years fixed by the act.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Mr. Solicor-Generalfor appellants.
Xr. U.

. o8e filed a brief on behalf of appellees.

MATTEws delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity filed by the appellants September 3,
MR. JusTiCE

1879. The complainants are the. administrators de .on5,4 non
of Samuel D. Morgan, deceased, and the children and heirs at
law and widow of the intestate, citizens of North Carolina.
The feiiale defendants are the children and heirs at law of John
G. Morgan, deceased, sued with their husbands, and all citizens
of Arkansas.
The case alleged in the bill is substantially as follows:
In 1860 a partnership was formed between Samuel D. Morgan and John G. Morgan, who were brothers, the former advancing the means, the latter being baiikrupt, for stocking and
cultivating a cotton plantation in Arkansas, purchased in the
name of the firm, but paid for only in part. Samuel D. Morgan continued to reside in North Carolina. John G. -organ
lived on the plantation in Arkansas, and personally conducted
its operations. This he did during several years, including the
year 1865, when the plantation was sold, under judicial proceedVOL. cxnr-29

OCTOBER TERM, 1884:
Opinion of the Court.

ings,to pay the unpaid purchase money.. Samuel D. Morgan
died in January, 1864. It is alleged that large profits were
made by John G. Morgan, and particularly that after the death
of his brother he continued in possession of the partnership
property, conducted its business, and made profits amounting
to $20,000. He rendered no account at any time of the business,
and made no settlement of the partnership affairs, but it is
charged that he converted the whole of the partnership property
and profits to his own use.
John G. Morgan, in, 1865, took out letters of administration on
the estate of Samuel D. Morgan, in Ashley county, Arkansas, in
which the plantation and partnership property were situated.
The administration was closed in 1872..
John G. Morgan died in. 1875, the defendants, his heirs at law,
having come into possession of the property in his possession
at his decease, more than sufficient to satisfy the claim of the
complainants.
Of the complainants, Samuel T. Morgan became of age
September 8, 1876, and William W. Morgan in May, 1878.
They never had a guardian' and allege their ignorance of the
frauds charged to have been practised against them by John G.
Morgan until 1879.
The prayer of the bill is for an account, &c.
The answer of the defendants,. though admitting the fact of
such a partnership as alleged, denies that any profits were made,
and denies all the allegations of fraud. It also shows that John
G.. Morgan died in April, 1875, leaving him surviving Emma S.
Morgan, his widow, and the defendants, Alice R. Hamlet and
Emma G. Abell, and Lula Morgan, an infant, his only children;
that letters of administration were issued on his estate by the
Probate Court of Chicot County, Arkansas, in which he lived
at the time of his death, on August 6, 1875, to his widow, who
acted as administratrili of his estate until October 13, 1875,
when -he resigned, anl the defendant, John C. Hamlet, was
appointed by the same court administrator de boni8 non, and
qualified and acted as such. And it is relied Qn as a defence that
the demands made in the bill were not authenticated and presented- to the administratrix or the administrator de boni8 non

MORGAN v. HAMLET.
Opinion of the Court.

of John G. Morgan, deceased, according to law, within two
years of the granting of letters of administration. on his estate.
The cause was heard on the pleadings and proofs, and on
final hearing the bill was dismissed. From" this decree the
complainants bring the present appeal.
In Arkansas it appears that there is a' special statute of
limitations governing claims against estates of deceased per-sons, commonly called the, statute of non-claim. It is as
follows:
"All demands not-exhibited to the executor or administrator,
as required by this acf, ,.efore the end of two years from the
granting of letters, sl.ali be forever barred." Dig. Ark. Stat.
1874, ยง 98.
It has been decided that the statute runs against all creditors,
whether resident oi'non-resident. Erwin v. Turner, 6 Ark. 14.
And that-all.cl&nis fall within the provisions of the statute
that are capable of being asserted in a court of law or equity.
existing at the death of the deceased, or-coming into existence
within two years after the grant of administration, .whether due
*ornot, it running to a certain maturity. Wdlker v. Byers, 14
Ark. 246.
And the effect of a failure to present the claim as prescribed
in'the statute, is not to let it in against the heirs or devisees,
but it is t6 bar if"
forever as against all persons. Bennett v.
.Dawson, 18 Ark. 334; Brierly v. Norri, 23 Ark. 771.
And in Public Wor v. Columbia College, 17 Wall. 521,
530, in a like case, it was held by this court that a failure to
present the claim is,
in the absence of circumstances constituting an excuse, fatal to the bill for relief in equity.
It is sought, in argument on behalf of the appellants, to distinguish their case, at least the case of the two infant children of
Samuel D. Morgan, from any case within the statute of ntnclaim, on the ground that at the death of their father, his title
to the real estate, which constituted the plantation, descended
t9 them as his heirs at law, and thereafter as to the operations
conducted by John Morgan in 1864 and 1865, having no guardian, the latter, was in equity their representative and guardian
de 8on tort and trustee, so that upon his death, and until they

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

arrived at age, there was no one competent to make a demand
against his administrator, within the terms of the statute.
But wu are unable to appreciate the force of this supposed
distinction. The statute in question contains no exception in
favor of claimants under disability, of non-age, or otherwise;
the claim of the complainants against John G. Morgan was
adverse to his administration, although it may have originated
in consequence of a relation of trust; and there is no ground,
that we are able to understand, on which it can be excepted
out of the operation of the statute in question. Their claim
was equally against the adwinistrator of John G. Morgan,
whether the latter be considered as the defaulting partner of
themselves or of their father. Whatever its description, it was
a claim against the estate of John G. Morgan, and for which
his personal representative was in the first instance liable; and
the statute is a bar to every such claim, unless presented within
the time prescribed.
On this ground, the decree of the Circuit Court is
Afflnmd.

CHASE v. CURTIS & Another.
IN ERROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE'SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Argued January30, 1885.-Decided March 2, 1885.

The provision in ยง 12 of the act of the legislature of N4w York of February
17,1848, as amended June 7,1875, whereby trustees of corporations formed
for manufacturing, mining, mechanical, or chemical purposes are made
liable for debts of the company on failure to file the reports of capital

and of debts required by that section, is penal in its character, and must
be construed with strictness as against those sought to be subjected to its
liabilities.
In a suit under the provisions of that act, as amended, to recover of the trustees
of such corporation the amount of a judgment against the corporation, the
judgment roll is not competent evidence to establish a debt due from the
corporation to the plaintiff.
A claim in tort against a corporation formed inder that act, as amended, is

