SOON HING v. CROWLEY.
Syllabus.

authority, for the purpose of providing a national currency
secured by United States bonds. If the principle of substantial equality of taxation under State authority, as between
capital so invested and other moneyed capital in the hands of
Individual citizens however invested, operates to disturb the
peculiar policy of some of the States in respect of revenue
derived from taxation, the remedy therefor is with another
department of the government, and does not belong to this
court.
We are of opinion that upon the allegations of the bill the
defendants should have been put to their answer. The facts
may then disclose a case quite different from that made by the
bill. What we have said relates to the case as now presented.
The judgment must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded for further proceeding8not incon.sitent with this

SOON HING v. CROWLEY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF OALIFORNIA.
Submitted December 16, 1884.-Decided March 16, 1885.
The decision in Barber v. Connely, ante, 27-that a municipal ordinance
prohibiting from washing and ironing in public laundries and wash-houses
within defined territorial limits, from ten o'clock at night -to six in the
morning, is a police regulation within the competency of a municipality
possessed of ordinary powers-affirmed.
It is no objection to a municipal ordinance prohibiting one kind of business
within certain hours, that it permits other and different kinds of business to
be done within those hours.
Municipal restrictions imposed upon one class of persons engaged in a particular business, which are not imposed upon others engaged in the same business and under like conditions, impair the equal right which all can claim
in the enforcement of the laws.
When the general security and welfare require that a particulai kind of work
should be done at certain times or hours, and an ordinance is made to that
effect, a person engaged in performing that sort of work has no inherent
right to pursue his occupation during the prohibited time.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
This court cannot inquire into the motives of legislators in enacting laws,
except as they may be disclosed on the face of the acts, or be inferrible
from their operation, considered with reference to the condition of the
country and existing legislation.

The petitioner in the court below, the plaintiff in error here,
was arrested by the defendant, who is chief of police of the
city and county of San Francisco, for an alleged violation of
an ordinance of the Board of Supervisors of that municipality,
approved on the 18th of June, 1883; and while in custody of
the officer applied to the Circuit Court of the United States
for a writ of abea8 corpus, in order to obtain his discharge.
The Circuit Court refused to issue. the writ; the judges of the
court being divided in opinion, and that of the presiding judge
controlling.
The ordinance was adopted to regulate the establishment
and maintenance of public laundries and wash-houses within
certaiii limits of the city and county of San Francisco. It recited that the indiscriminate establishment of -such laundries
and wash-houses, where clothes and other articles were cleansed
for hire, endangered the public health and public safety, prejudiced the well-being and comfort of the community, and depreciated the value of property in their neighborhood. It then
ordained, pursuint to the authority vested in the board, that
after its passage it should be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain, or carry on the business of a public laundry
or a public wash-house within certain designated limits of the
city'and county, without having first obtained a certificate of
the health officer of the municipality that the premises were
properly and sufficiently drained, and that all proper arrange-.
ments were made to carry on the business without injury to the
sanitary condition of the neighborhood; and also a certificate
of the Board of Fire Wardens of the municipality that the
stoves, washing and drying apparatus, and the appliances for
heating smoothing-irons were in good condition, and that their
use was not dangerous to surrounding property from fire, and
that all proper precautions were taken to comply with the provisions of the ordinance defining the fire limits of the city and
county, and making regulations' concerning the erection and

SOON HING v. CROWLEY.
Statement of Facts.

use of buildings therein. The ordinance requires the health
officer and the Board of Wardens, upon the application of any
one desirous to open or conduct the business of a public laundry, to inspect the premises in which it is proposed to carry on
the business, in order to ascertain whether they are provided
with proper drainage and sanitary appliances, and whether the
provisions of the fire ordinance have been complied with; and
if found satisfactory in all respects, to issue to the applicant
the required certificates, without charge for the services rendered.
Its fourth section declares that no person owning or employed
in a public laundry or a public wash-house within the prescribed
limits shall wash or iron clothes between the hours of ten in
the evening and six in the morning, or upon any portion- of
Sunday; and its fifth section declares that no person engaged
in the laundry business within those limits shaft permit anyone suffering from an infectious or contagious disease to lodge,
sleep, or remain upon the premises. The violation of any of
these provisions is declared to be a misdemeanor, and penalties
are prescribed according to the nature of the offence. The
establishing, maintaining or carrying on the business without
obtaining the certificate is punishable by a fine of not more
that $1,000 or by imprisonment of not more than six months,
or by both. Carrying on the business outside of the-hours prescribed, or permitting persons with contagious diseases on. the
premises, is punishable by a fine of not less than $5 or more
than $50, or by imprisonment of not more than one month, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.
The petitioner was arrested by the chief of police upon a
warrant of a police judge of the municipality, issued upon a
complaint under oath, that the petitioner had washed and
ironed clothes in a public laundry within the prescribed limits
between the hours of ten o'clock in the evening of the 25th of
February, 1884, and six o'clock in the morning of the following
day, thereby violating the provisions of section four of the
ordinance.
The petition for the writ of habeas corpu8 presented to the
judges of the Circuit Court set forth the arrest and detention
ToL. cxI--45

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

of the petitioner by the chief of police, the ordinance under
which the arrest was made, the complaint before the police
judge , and the issue of the warrant under which he was taken
into custody. It then proceeded to state that the petitionerhad for several years been engaged in working for hire in a
public laundry in the city and county of San Francisco, and
had in all respects complied with the laws of the United States
and of California, and the ordinances of the city and county,
except in washing at the hours mentioned; that the business of
carrying on a laundry was a lawful one in which a large numbef of the subjects of the Emperor of China had been and were
engaged in the said city and county within the limits prescribed
by the ordinance; that there had been for several years great
antipathy and hatred on the part of the residents 6f that city
and county against the subjects of China residing'and doing
business there; that giich antipathy and hatred had manifested
themselves in various ways and under various forms for the
purpose of compelling the subjects of China to quit and abandon their business and residence. in the city and county and
State; that owing to that feeling, and not otherwise, and not
for any sanitary, police, or other legitimate purpose, but in order
to force those subjects engaged in carrying on- the business of
a laundry in. the city and county of San Francisco to abandon
the exercise of their lawful vocation, and their only means of
livelihood, the supervisors passed the ordinance in question;
that the petitioner had been and was earning his living
exclusively by working at washing and ironing for hire, and in
order to gain a livelihood was obliged to work late in the night,
and had no other lawful vocation; that on thefirst of January,
1884, his employer paid the license collector of the city and
county six dollars, the amount required by the ordinance to obtain a license to carry on the business of a laundry, and obtained
from him a license to carry on the business at a designated place
*within the prescribed limits. The petition also averred that section four of the ordinance was in'contravention of the provisionsof the Burlingame Treaty, and of the Fourteenth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, in that it deprived
them of the equal protebtion of the laws.

SOON BING v.. CROWLEY.

. 707

Opinion of the Court.

On the hearing of the application for the writ certain questions arose, upon which the judges of the Circuit Court were
divided in opinion. They were as follows:
1. Whether section four of the ordinance mentioned is void
on the ground that it is not Wyithin the police power of the
Board of Supervisors of the city and county of San Francisco.
2. Whether said section is void on the ground(that it discriminates between those engaged in the laundry business and
those engaged in other classes of business.
3. Whether Said section is void on the ground that it discriminates between the different classes of persons engaged in
the laundry business.
4. Whether said section is void on the ground that it deprives
a man of the right to labor at all times.
5. Whether said section is void on the groifud; that it is
unreasonable in its requirements, in restraint of trade, or upon
any other ground apparent upon the face of the ordinance, or
appearing in the petition.
The opinion of the presiding judge being that the said
section was valid and constitutional, the application for the
writ was denied; and the judgment entered upon the denial was
brought to this court for review.
.iMr. David XcClure and Xrr. Thomas D. Riarda for plaintiff in error.
No appearance for defendant in error.
M .

JUSTICE FIELD,

after n~aking the foregoing statement of

facts, delivered the opinion of the court.
The ordinance of the Board of Supervisors of the city and
county of San Francisco, the legislative authority of that municipality, approved on the 25th of June, 1883, is similar in its main
features to the ordinance under consideration at this term in
Barbier v. Connolly, ante, page 27. It differs in the designation
of the limits of the district of the city and county within which
its provisions are to be enforced, but not otherwise in any essential particular. The fourth section is identical in both. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opiuion of the Court.

prohibition against labor on Sunday in this section is*not involved here, as it was not in that case; and the provision for
the cessation of labor in the laundries within certain prescribed
limits of the city and county during certain hours of the night
is purely a police regulation, which is, as we there said, within
the competency of any municipality possessed of the ordinary
powers belonging to such bodies. Besides, the Constitution of
California declares that "any county, city, town, or township
may make and enforce within its limits all such local, police,
sanitary, and other regulations as are not in conflict with general laws." Art. XI., ยง 11. And it is of the utmost consequence
in a city subject, as San Francisco is, the greater part of the
year, to high winds, and composed principally within the limits
designated of wooden buildings, that regulations of a strict
character should be adopted to prevent the possibility of fires.
That occupations in which continuous fires are necessary should
cease at certain hours of the night would seem to be, under such
circumstances, a reasonable regulation as a measure of precaution. At any rate, of its necessity for the purpose designated
the municipal authorities are the appropriate judges. Their
regulations in this matter are iot subject to any interference
by the federal tribunals unless they are made the occasion for
invading the substantial rights of persons, a-Ad no such invasion
is caused by the regulation in question. As we said in Barier
v. Connolly, "the same municipal authority which directs the
cessation of labor must necessarily prescribe the limits within
which it shall be enforced, as it does the limits in a city within
which wooden buildings cannot be constructed." No invidious
discrimination is made against any one by the measures adopted.
All persons engaged in the same business within the prescribed
limits are treated alike and subject to similar restrictions.
There is no force in the objection that an unwarrantable discrimination is made against persons engaged in the laundry
business, because persons in other kinds of business are not
required to cease from their labors during the same hours at
night. There may be no risks attending the business of others,
certainly not as great as where fires are constantly required to
carry them on. The specific regulations for one kind of busi-

SOON HING v. CROW-LEY.
Opinion of the Court.

ness, which may be necessary for the protection of the public,
can never be the just ground of complaint because like restrictions are not imposed upon other business of a different kind.
The discriminations which are open to objection are those
where persons engaged in the same business are subjected to
different restrictions, or are held entitled to different, privileges
under the same conditions. It is only then that the discrimination can be said to impair. that equal right which all can
claim in the enforcement of the laws.
But counsel in the court below not only objected to the
fourth section of the ordinance as discriminating between those
engaged in the laundry business, and those engaged in other
business, but also as discriminating between different classes
engaged in the laundry business itself. This latter ground of
objection becomes intelligible only by reference to his brief, in
which we are informed that the laundry business, besides the
washing and ironing of clothes, involves the fluting, polishing,
blueing, and wringing of them; and that these are all different
branches, requiring separate and skilled workmen, who are not
prohibited from working,,during the hours of night. This flut
ing, polishing, blueing, and w nging of clothes, it seems to us,
are incidents of the general business, and are embraced within
its prohibition. But if not incidents, and they are outside of
the prohibition, it is because there is not the danger from them
that would arise from the continuous fires required in washing;
and it is not discriminating legislation in any invidious sense
that branches of the same business from which danger is apprehended are prohibited during certain hours of the night, whilst
other branches involving no such danger are permitted.
The objection that the fourth section is void on the ground
that it deprives a man of the right to work at all times is
equally without force. However broad the right of every one
to follow such calling and employ his time as he may judge
most conducive to his interests, it must be exercised subject to
such general rules as are adopted by society for the common
welfare. All sorts of restrictions are imposed upon the actions
of men notwithstanding the liberty which is guaranteed to
each. It is liberty regulated by just and impartial laws. ] ar-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ties, for example, are free to make any contracts they choose
for a lawful purpose, but society says what contracts shall be
in writing and what may be verbally made, and on what days
they may be executed, and how long they may be enforced if
their terms are not complied with. So, too, with the hours of
labor. On few subjects has there been more regulation. How
many hours shall constitute a day's work in the absence of contract, at what time shops in our cities shall close at night, are
constant subjects of legislation. Laws setting aside Sunday as
a day of rest are upheld, not from any right of the government to legislate for the promotion of religious observances,
but from its righlt to protect all persons from the physical
and moral debasement which comes from uninterrupted labor.
Such law's have always been deemed beneficent and merciful
laws, especially to the poor and dependent, to the laborers in
,our factories and workshops and in the heated rooms of oui
cities; and their validity has been sustained by the highest
courts of the States.
The principal objection, however, of the petitioner to the
ordinance in question is founded upon the supposed hostile
motives of the supervisors in passing it. The petition alleges
that it was adopted owing to a feeling of antipathy and hatred
prevailing in the city and county of San Francisco against the
subjects of the Emperor of China resident therein, and for the
purpose of compelling those engaged in the laundry business
to abandon their lawful vocation, and residence there, and not
for any sanitary, police, or other legitimate purpose. There is
nothing, however, in the language of the ordinance, or in the
record of its enactment, which in any respect tends to sustain
this allegation. And the rule is general with reference to the
enactments of all legislative bodies that the courts cannot inquire into the motives of the legislators in passing them, except
as they may be disclosed on the face of the acts, or inferrible
from their operation, considered with reference to the condition
of the country and existing legislation. The motives of thE
legislators, considered as the purposes they had in view, will
always be presumed to be to accomplish that which follows as
the natural and reasonable effect of their enactments. Their

UNITED STATES v. INDIANAPOLIS RR. CO.

11

Opinion of the Court.

motives, considered as the moral inducements for their votes,
will vary with the different members of the legislative body.
The diverse character of such motives, and the impossibility of
penetrating into the hearts of men and ascertaining the truth,
precludes all such inquiries as impracticable and futile. And
in the present case, even if the motives of the supervisors were
as alleged, the ordinance would not be thereby changed from a
legitimate police reglation, unless in its enforcement it is made
to operate only against the class mentioned; and of this there
is no pretence.
It follows that the several questions certifiet must be answered in the negative and the judgment be affirmed;
And it i8 8o or'dered.

UNITED STATES, Intervenor, v. INDIANAPOLIS & ST.
LOUIS RAILROAD COMPATY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Submitted January 28, 1885.-Decided March 16, 1885.

Interest on bonds of a railroad corporation earned by the company during the
year 1871, but payable 1ly the terms of the coupon January 1, 1872, is not
subject to the tax authorized by ยง 15, act of July 14, 1870, 16 Stat. 260, to
be levied and collected for and during the year 1871.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Solieitor-Generalfor appellant.
.Mr. Joh f. Dye for appellee.

MR. JUSTicEiA.RLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought to foreclose certain mortgages given
to secure bonds issued by the Indianapolis and St. Louis Rail.
road Company. A final decree of foreclosure having been
passed, the mortgaged .property was sold, and the sale was

