OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

ter of the Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company, including the
exemption in question, would have vested in the new company.
But, as it was not accepted and acted upon Lmtil a change in
the organic law of the State forbade the creation of corpora,
tions capable of holding property exempt from taxation, it must
be presumed that when the original company entered into the
consolidation it did so in full view of the existing law, and with
the intention of forming a new corporation, such as the Constitution.and laws of the State at that time permitted. That,
at least, we must hold to be the legal effect of the transaction.
In that viewtjhe language used by this court at the present
term in the case of the .A'emphd and -LitteRock Railroad
Co. (as reorganized) v. Berry et al., 112 U. S. 609, is strictly
applicable and is now re-affirmed.
The conclusion is unavoidable, that the exemption from taxation declared in the eleventh section of the charter of the
.Cairo and Fulton Railroad Company did not pass by the act
of consolidation to the St. Louis, Iron Mountain and Southern
Railway Company.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is therefore
Affirmed.
MORGAN & Another v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. MANHATTAN SAYINGS INSTITUTION.
VON HOFFMAN &-Another v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. MANHATTAN SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 12, 1885.-Decided March 2, 1885.

The ruling in Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, that the legislature of Texas, while
the State was owner of the bonds there in suit, could limit their negotiability by an act of legislation, with notice of which all subsequent pur-

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.
chasers were charged, although the bonds on their face were payable to
bearer, overruled.
The ruling in that case, that negotiable government securities, redeemable at
the pleasure of the government after a specified day, but in which no date is
fixed for final payment, cease to be negotiable as overdue after the day
when they first become redeemable, limited to cases where the purchaser
acquires title with notice of the defect, or under circumstances discrediting
the instrument, such as would affeot the title of negotiable demand paper
purchased after an unreasonable length of time from the date of the issue.
The distinction between kedeemability and payability commented on in that.
case embraces and defines the five-twenty bonds in suit in this case.
Holders of government bonds must be presumed to have knowledge of the
laws, by authority of which they were created and put in circulation, and
of all lawful acts done by government officers under those laws.
The obligations of the United States under the five-twenty bends, consols of
1865, are governed by the law merchant regulating negotiable securities,
modified only, if at all, by the laws authorizing their issue.
The five-twenty consols of 1865 on their face were "Redeemable at the pleas.
ure of the United States after the 1st day of July, 1870, and payable on the
first day of July, 1885.' In conformity with provisions of law, notice was
duly given, as to the bonds of this class in suit in these hctions, that in three
months after the date of such notice the interest on the bonds would cease.
He d, That the exercise of the right of redemption made the bonds payable
on demand, without interest, after the maturity of the call, until the date
for absolute payment.
Ordinary negotiable paper payable on demand, is not due without demand
until after.tbe lapse of a reasonable time in which to make demand.
What is reasonable time in which to demand payment of negotiable paper
payable on demand, depends upon the circumstances of the case and the
situation of the parties.
A holder of a called five-twenty consol could without prejudice, except loss of
interest, wait without demand, for the whole period, at the expiration of
which the bond was unconditionally payable.
In stamping upon these bonds the faculty of passing from hand to hand as
money, and in conferring upon the Secretary of the Treasury the power to
receive them in payment, in the great exchange of bonds by which the
annual interest on the public debt was reduced, it was intended to leave
with the called bonds the character of unquestioned negotiability, and to
protect bona fide purchasers for value, in the due course of trade, without
actual notice of a defect in the obligation or title.

These four cases involved claims against the United States
for the payment of certain bonds of the United States, known
as "five-twenty bonds," consols of 1865, issued in pursuance of
the authority conferred upon the Secretary of the Treasury by
the act of Congress approved March 3,1865, entitled "An Act

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

to provide ways and means for the support- of the government."
Twenty bonds of the denomination of $1,000 each and sixteen
of $500 each were embraced in the suits. The controversy related to the title only, all of them being claimed by the Manhattan Savings Institution, and ten of each denomination by J.
S. Morgan & Co., and the others, being ten of $1,000 each and
six of $500 each, by L. Von Ho fman & Co. The bonds having been called -in for redemption were presented at the
Trasury for that purpose by the holders respectively, J. S.
Morgan & Co. and L. Von Hoffman & Co., but payment was refused by the United States on account of the adverse claim of
the Manhattan Savings Institution, and the claims of the several
parties to the proceeds were transmitted for adjudication to
the Court of Claims by the Secretary of the Treasury, March
12, 1880, pursuant to section 1063 Revised Statutes. Judgments were rendered by that court in favor of the Manhattan
Savings Institution, and against the other claimants respectively. 18 C. C. 386. The several appeals brought up all the
cases as they stood in the Court of Claims, the United States
appealing from the judgment in favor of the Manhattan Savings Institution, the other paries from the judgments dismissing their respective petitions. The controversy was wholly
between the claimants, the United States being merely in the
position of a stakeholder, not denying its liability to pay to the
true owners of the bonds.
The act of Congress, in pursuance of which the bonds in
question were issued, being "An Act to provide ways and
means for the support of the government," approved March 3,
1865, 13 Stat. 468, ch. 77, provided:
"That the Secretary of the Treasury be, and he is hereby,
authorized to borrow from time to time, on the credit of the
United States, in addition to the amounts heretofore authorized,
any sums not exceeding in the aggregate six hundred millions.
of dollars, and to issue therefor bonds or treasury, notes of the
United States, in such form as he may prescribe; and so much
thereof as may be issued in bonds shall be of denominations
not less than fifty dollars, and may be made payable at any
period not more than forty years from date of issue, or may be

MORGANv. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

made redeemable, at the pleasure of the government, at or
after any period not less than five years nor more than forty
years from, date, or may be made redeemable and payable as
aforesaid, as may be expressed upon their face," &c.
The bonds issued under this act were called the consolidated
debt or consols of 1865, because, in addition to the loan of
$600,000,000 authorized by it, the Secretary of the Treasury
was empowered to permit the conversion, into any description
of bonds authorized by it, of any treasury notes or other obligations, bearing interest, issued under any act of Congress.
The bonds themselves, dffering only in numbers and denomination, were in the following form:
[165.120..
"165,120.]
"[Consolidated debt. Issued under act of Congress approved
March 3, 1865. Redeemable after five and payable twenty
years from date.]
[1,000.
"1,000.]
"It is hereby certified that the United States of America
are indebted unto the bearer in the sum of one thousand dollars, redeemable at the pleasure of the United States after the
1st day of July, 1870, and payable on the 1st day of July, 1885,
with interest from the 1st day of July, 1865, inclusive, at six
per cent. per annum, payable on thd first day of January and
July ia each year, on the presentation of the proper coupon
hereunto annexed. This debt is authorized by act of Congress
approved March 3, 186.5.
"j. LowLRY,
"Washington, July,l,1865.
" For -egi&er of the Treaury.
"Six months' interest due July 1, 1885, payable with this
bond.
"(Thirteen coupons attached from and including coupon for
interest due January 1, 1879, to and including coupou for interest due January 1, 1885.)"
They were accordingly known as five-twenty bonds, being
redeemable afterfive years, but not payable until twenty years
after July 1, 1865.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

The act of July 14, 1870, "to authorize the refunding of the
national debt," 16 Stat. 272, authorized the issue of three
classes of bonds, according as they bore interest at the rates of
5 per cent., 41 per cent. and 4 per cent. per annum, amounting
in the aggregate to .$1,500,000,000, which the Secretary of the
Treasury was, by the second section of the act, authorized to
sell and dispose of, at not less than their par value in coin, and
"to apply the proceeds thereof to the redemption of any of
the bonds of the United States outstanding, and knqwn a#
five-twenty bonds, at their par value," or, the act continues,
"he may exchange the same for such five-twenty bonds, par for
par."
By the fourth section of this act it was provided:
"That the Secretary of the Treasury is hereby authorized,
with any coin of the Treasury of the United States which he
may lawfully apply to such purpose, or which may be derived
from the sale of any of the bonds, the issue of which is provided for in this act, to pay at par and cancel any six per cent.
bonds of the United States of the kind known as five-twenty
bonds which have become, or shall hereafter become, redeemable by the terms of their issue. But the particular bonds so
to be paid and cancelled shall in all cases be indicated and
specified by class, date, and number, in the order of their numbers and issue, beginning with the first numbered and issued,
in public notice to be given by the Secretary of the Treasury,
and in three months after the date of such public notice, the
interest on the bonds so selected and advertised to be paid shall
cease."
By an act passed January 20, 1871, 16 Stat. 399, the foregoing act was amended so as to authorize the issue of five hundred millions of five per cent. bonds instead of two hundred.
millions, as limited by the act of July 14, 1870, but not so as
to permit an increase of the aggregate of bonds of all classes
thereby authorized.
During the period from July, 1874, to January, 1879, the
Secretary of the Treasury made various contracts, in writing,
for the negotiation of five, four-and-a-half, and four per cent.
bonds issued under the refunding act of 1870, in Europe and

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts

this country, with associations of bankers and banking institutions in London and New York, which became known as syndicates.
The claimants, J. S. Morgan & Co., were members of such a
syndicate, between which and the Secretary of the Treasury a
contract was entered into on the 21st of January, 1879. The
members of that syndicate were Messrs. August Belmont &
Co., of New York, on behalf of Messrs. N. M. Rothschild & Sons,
of London, England, and associates, and themselves; Messrs.
Drexel, Morgan & Co., of New York, on behalf of Messrs.
J. S. Morgan & Co., of London, and themselves; Messrs. J. &
W. Seligman & Co., of New York, on behalf of Messrs. Seligman Brothers, of London, and themselves; and Messrs. Morton,
Bliss & Co., of New York, on behalf of Messrs. Morton, Rose
& Co., of London, and themselves. The subscription was for
$10,000,000 of four per cent. bonds of that date, and five millions additional each month until June 30, 1879, when the contract terminated, the proceeds to be applied to the refunding
of the public debt, "theSecretary of the Treasury agreeing, on
receiving each subscription under the contract for not less than
$5,000,000, .to issue a call for the redemption of United States
six per centum five-twenty bonds equal to or exceeding said
sum. The syndicate agreed to pay to the Treasury at! Washingtn within the running of such call the amount of four
per cent. bonds subscribed for, at par and accrued interest
to the date of subscription, in United States gold coin, Unied
State§ matured coin coupons, coin certificates of deposit issued under the act of March 3, 1863, or United States six
per centum five-twenty bonds called for redemption not later
than the date of the subscription to which the payment was
to. apply. It was also agreed that the United States should
maintain an agency at London for the purpose of making deliveries of the bonds subscribed for to the parties s they should
desire, and the agent appointed for that purpose was authorized
by the Secretary of the Treasury to receive the stipulated payment therefor, including the five-twenty bonds offered in exchange.
On October 27, 1878, the Manhattan Savings Institution, a
voL. c XU-81

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

savings bank in lNew York, was the owner in possession of the
thirty-six United States five-twenty coupon bonds which are
the subject -f these suits, .ixteen for $500 each and twenty for
$1,000 each; and on that day, the building in which was its
bankinig-house was entered by burglars, and these bonds,
among others, amounting in all to about $2,500,000, were
stolen from the safe, without any negligence or want of proper
care in their safe-keeping on the part of the officers and servants
of the institution.
On July 30, 1878, the Secretary of the Treasury issued a call
.for the redemption of $5,000,000 of five-twenty bonds, designated by numbers, in which it was stated as follows:
"By virtue of the authority given by the act of Congress
approved July 14, 1870, entitled 'An Act to authorize the refunding of the national debt,' I hereby give notice that the
principal and aectued interest of the bonds herein below designated, known as five-twenty bonds,' of the act of March 3,
1865, will be paid at the Treasury of the United States, in the
city of Washington, on and after the thirtieth day of October,
1878, and that the interest on said bonds will cease on that
day."
Successive notices of other like calls were issued thereafter
from time to time, according to which the dates on which the
interest would cease on the bonds designated were from October 30, 1878, to and including March 18, 1879, which calls embraced all the bonds involved in these suits.
The twenty bonds claimed by J.S. Morgan & Co., and the
sixteen claimed by L.Von Hoffman & Co., were bought by
them, respectively, at different times, during the year 1879, in
London, from well-known and responsible parties, the latter
purchasing from R. Raphael & Sons, bankers of high respectability in London, dealing largely in United States government
securities; but all the bonds when bought, as well by R. Raphael & Sons as by the claimants, had been called for redemption by the Secretary of the Treasury, and designated in one
of the notices to that effect, and the call in each case had matured, and the bonds were bought by them, respectively, with
knowledge in each case of that fact; but they bought them, in

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

the due course of their business as bankers, and paid the full
market price for them, to wit, par and accrued interest, in good
faith, without suspecting, or having any reason whatever to
suspect, that the bonds, or any of them, had been stolen by or
from any person, or, that there was any defect in the titles of
the persons from whom the purchases were made, or that the
numbers of any of the bonds had been changed, or that the
numbers of any of the bonds were not the original and genuine numbers as issued by the Treasury Depatment of the
United States. In point of fact great publicity was given
through the newspapers to .the fact of the robbery, and some
kind of a circular was issued by the Manhattan Savings Institution in regard to it, but it did not appear what its terms
were, nor where, nor to whom it was sent. It was also shown
that the serial numbers of four of the bonds purchased by J. S.
Morgan & Co., and five of those purchased by L. Yon Hoffman
& Co., had been, in fact, subsequently to the ,robbery, wrongfully altered, but when, where, or by whom. could not be ascertained, and there was nothing in the appearance of the altered
bonds, or the numbers when purchased, calculated to excite the
suspicion or notice of a prudent and careful man, the alterations having been so skilfully effected that they were only discoverable with the aid of a magnifying glass.
The twenty bonds claimed by J. S. Morgan & Co., were
purchased by them-for the purpose of making payment to tlie
United States for four per cent. bonds, subscribed for, under the
contract entered into with them and their associates, by the
Secretary of the Treasury on January 21, 1879, for the negotiation of four per cent. bonds, and to avoid the transmission
of gold to settle their acc6unts with the Treasury Department.
They were delivered by the claimants at different times, soon
after their purchase, to the officer in charge of the agency of
the United States for the refunding of the national debt in
London, who received them in payment for four per cent.
bonds of the United States, then delivered by him to the claimants, and were by him transmitted to the Treasury Department at Washington for redemption. The Secretary of the
Treasury, in copsequence of notice of the adverse claim of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

Manhattan Savings Institution, 'having withheld payment of
these bonds, the claimants, J. S. Morgan & Co., in a letter to
the Secretary of September 1, 1879, stated the grounds of their
claim as follows:
"We would submit that this course is in entire contradiction
to the practice of the department hitherto, and in violation of
the agreement upon the face of the bonds to pay them to
bearer.
"The government has hitherto always paid its bearer obligations, as every other State, company, or individual does, to
any innocent holders who had paid full value for them. This
we have done for all these bonds, having purchased them in
the regular way of business in the market, and even paying a
small premium for them to avoid the transmission of gold to
settle our accounts with the Treasury in America.
"They had no fixed maturity; they were arbitrarily drawn
by the government for payment at the present time; they carried no notice on their face that they were not payable in accordance with their tenor, and the only penalty for not presenting them was the cessation of interest. The analogy drawn
from the equities attaching to an overdue note, as carrying
notice on the face of non-payment, has consequently no bearing on the case. These bonds are scattered all over Europe,
and the notice.that they are due frequently does not reach the
holder for months, and sometimes years. We buy them in the
regular course of our business, nor could we do otherwise.
"If the government were to decide not to pay bonds to
bearer of which the ownership .is disputed, except after decision of courts, they would do what neither they nor any other
government has ever done before. It would prevent dealing
in their securities, be a distinct injury to their negotiability,
and a loss to the public credit."
The' sixteen bonds claimed by L. Von Hoffman & Co. were
transmitted by them directly to the Treasury Department at
Washington for redemption. It was from letters from the
department, written in answer to their letters of transmittal,
that they rebeived first the information that the bonds had
been stolen, and some of them altered, and learned of the claim

MORGAN v. UNTED STATES.
Argument for Manhattan Savings Institution.

of the Manhattan Savings Institution, as owners, to await the
decision of which the bonds were retained by the Secretary in
the custody of the Treasury Department.
In addition to, the foregoing facts, found by the Court of
Claims, it also found, that "during the period of the refunding
transactions under the act of July 14, 1870, many five-twenty
bonds of every call were not sent in promptly for redemption,

but were held, in this country and Europe, through want of
information, or otherwise, until -long after the maturity of the
call," and that. "during the period of the refunding transactions of the government under the act of July 14, 1870, large
numbers of the European holders of the five-twenty bonds of
the act of March 3, 1865, called for redemption, from want of
facility for sending their bonds to the United States, or to
avoid the risk and expense of transmission, or various other
reasons, were obliged to and did sell and dispose of their bonds,
in the market, in London, to money-changers, bankers, and merchants, as th6 only means of obtaining the money for them.
Many millions of the said called bonds were thus sold and disposed of in the London market, and dealt in by money dealers
during that period, long after the maturity of the various
calls;" and also that, "according to the custom and practice
in London, the said called bonds of the United States were
commonly dealt in by buying and selling after the time fixed
for their redemption, in the same way and just as freely as the
bonds not balled for redemption."
-Yr. A&itant Attorney-Genera: .aury, on behalf of the
United States, stated that they had no interest in the result of
the suit; that their attitude was like that of the complainant
in a bill of interpleader.
-Yr.J. Hubley A~hton for Morgan and another, and Von
Hoffman and another.
.(r. Howard C. Cady (Mr.IFaldo fftchm8 was with him)
for Manhattan Savings Institution.-These b-nods are a contract, and are to be taken with reference to the intent of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Manhattan Saving Institution.

parties, under the law. The government wanted to borrow a
large sum, and they devised these bonds as the basis of the required loans. There could be no misunderstanding on the part
of any holder that each of the bonds would become payable
wl~en the government, in the mode and at the tim6 to be indicated, as prescribed by law, should express its will. It was
not necessary to specify more on the face of the instrument
than just what is there, to the end purposed. An .instrument is
to be taken with reference to the law governing it. This was
-the understanding of the public at, large, for in those days
bonds ,of this character were presented almost universally, and
of this the court will take -judicial notice. Again, this was the
understanding of the parties, else why invariably make no
claim "for interest after those days?' And look at the expressions of J. S. Morgan & Co. in the fetter dated September 1,
1879: "Much to our surprise, payment has been withheld by
the Treasury Department" of these bonds. Again, these
bonds became due on the days fixed in the call, or these claimants would not all have been at the doors of the -Treasury
asking for principal and interest on or about the respective
days when they presented these bonds. Still, again, why the
notice in the call and in the law that on those days the interest
on those bonds so selected and advertised for payment should
cease? But we are not left to reasoning alone. Upon the
cases decided heretofore by this court the qu~sfions presented
7 Wall. 'too, was a
in these cases are settled. TaZs v. w-fi?,
case where United States coupon bonds issued to Texas in
1851 were transferred to White while the government of that
State was in rebellion, after the 31st of December, 1864. The
bonds were dated January 1, 1851, payable by their terms to
bearer, and redeemable after the 31st day of December, 1864;
and each of them stated, that it was "tra n s.ferabk on delivery."
The court held: "Purchasers of notes or bonds past due take
nothing but the actual right ,and title of the vendors. The
bonds in question were dated January 1, 1851, and were
redeemable after the 31st of December, 1864. In strictness,
they were not payable on the day when they became redeemable; but the known 'msage of the United States to pay all

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Manhattan Savings Institution.

bonds as soon as the right of payment accrues, except where
a distinction between redeemability and payability is made
by law, and shown on the face of the bonds, requires the
application of the rule respecting overdue obligations to l5onds
of the United States which have become redeemable and in
respect to which no such distinction has now been made.
N ow, all the bonds in controversy had become redeemable be:
fore the date of the contract with White." An attempt has been
made to ward off the decisive effect of this authority by reason
of what. was said in connection with the phrase, "except
where a distinction between redeemability and payability is
made by law and shown on the face of the bonds." By
analyzing this we shall see what it does not mean. Certainly
it does not mean that in the absence of a distinction made by
law and shown, the rule laid down does not apply. What led
to the phraseology will better appear, perhaps, by referring to
a paragraph on page 703 of the reports, where it is stated:
"In pursuance of an act of the legislature of Texas, the comptroller of public accounts of the State was authorized to go to
Washington and to receive there the bonds; the statute making
it his duty to deposit them, when received, in the Treasury of
the State of Texas, to be disposed of 'as may be provided by
law, ' and enacting further, that no bond issued as aforesaid,
and payable to bearer, should be 'available in the hands of any
holder until the same shall have been indorsed, in the city of
Austin, by the Governor of the State of Texas.'" The italics
are in the original. Applying this to the phrase in question* if
such parts of this act as were intended to control the payment
of these Texas bonds had been inserted on their face, it would
have made such a distinction as to control the terms "redeemable after the 31st of December, 1864;" and the rule referred
to in connection with the known usage -of the United States
to pay, &c., would not, by 6onsequence, apply.
But look at this phrase, ' distinction between redeemability
and payability made by law," and see if by possibility it can
apply to the bonds stolen from the Manhattan Savings Institution. Those bonds are, in terms, as-will be recollected, redeemable at the pleasure of the United States- after July 1, 1870,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Manhattan Savings Institution.

and payable on the 1st day of July, 1885. Now, is there any
law making a distinction between redeemable and payable,
as used in these bonds? None. The act of '65 and the provision of section 3691 of the Revised Statutes as to the mode of
working out the pleasure of the United States by calls, numbers, &c., and fixing the day and place of presentation for
payment, voice the iistrument; but the use of the word
"redeemable" invariably contemplates payment in connection
therewith. Sol that in the case of the bonds in these suits,
there being n6 such distinction as that referred to, the Supreme
Court of the United States says: "the known usage of the
United Istates to pay all bonds as*soon as the right of payment
accrues requires the application of the rule that purchasers of
bonds past due take nothing but the actual right and title of
the vendors to bonds of the United States which have become
redeemable." And this point was affirmed in Texas v. Hardenberg, 10 Wall. 91, where it is said: "We have reconsidered the
grounds of that decision [Texas v. WVMt], and are stil satisfied
with it." And reaffirmed in 1'ermilye v. Adams Express, 21
Wall. 138, 145, where it is said: "1This point being, as the court
cojsidered, settled." Mr. Justice Miller, in delivering the
opinion in the Vermilye case, says: "We have not qu&ed the
language from.the opinion in that case [Texas v. W-hite] with
any view of affirming it. It may admit of grave doubt whether
such bonds [the Texas bonds], redeemable but not payable at
a certain day, except at the option of the government, do become overdue, in the sense of being dishonored, if not paid or
redeemed oh that day." But, so far from repudiating the rule
itself, as laid down in Texas v. 'White, the court unanimously
held it applicable to redeemable United States bonds
In proceeding with the consideration of the second propositiom
of our adversaries, the cases cited seem to be sufficient.'
They have dwelt much on the lex mereatoria; but these
instruments are themselves only of recent introduction, and
there can be no custom in regard to them which is a part
of the law mer'6hant. That is a graft upon the common
law, which by its age and universality has become such a
branch of the unwritten law that courts have knowledge

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Manhattan Savings Institution.

thereof. In the present cases, assuming any practice of trade
in these bonds (truly or not), it is claimed to be only of recent
growth; and if the wording of an instrument is such as to exclude any such practice, no such usage can affect the established
rules settled by adjudication. Crouch v. Credit Foncier,8 L. R.
Q. B. 374, 386. In Barnardv. Kellogg, 10 Wall. 383, 391, Mr.
Justice Davis says: "It is well settled that usage cannot be
allowed to subvert settled rules of law." In Goodman v.
Roberts, 10 L. R. Ex. 357, the Chief Justice of England says:
"We must by no means be understood as saying that mercantile
usage, however extensive, should be allowed to prevail, if contrary to positive law.

.

.

.

To give effect to a usage which

involves a defiance or disregard of the law would be obviously
contrary to a fundamental principle." In the case of 'ermilye
v. Adams -Express Co., above cited, Mr. Justice Miller said:
"We cannot agree with counsel for the appellants that the
simple fact that they were the obligations of the government
takes them out of the rule which subjects the purchaser of
over-due paper to an inquiry into the circumstances under
which it was made, as regards the rights of antecedent
holders." And further on he says: " Bankers, brokers, and
others cannot, as was attempted in this case, establish by
proof a usage or custom in dealing in such paper which, in
their own interest, contravenes the established commercial
law. If they have been in the habit of disregarding that
law, this does not relieve them from the consequences nor
establish a different law." In England, a decade or more ago,
a disposition seemingly manifested itself to extend the rule laid
down in the leading case of Miller v. Race byLord Mansfield, 1
Burr, .452, and as stated in Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1, by Mr.
Justide Story, in his quaint, incisive way, viz.: "There is no
doubt a bonafide holder for value, without notice before due,
may recover." "This is a doctrine laid up among the fundamentals of the law, and requires no authority," &c. See; also,
Goodman v. Simond8, 20 How. 343. In many of the English
cases, both old and modern, certain negotiable instrdments are
spoken of as passing like money, but in no one of these cases is
that phraseology used with reference to the transfer of paper

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of tbe Court.

after due. It cannot be wise to occupy time in reciting this
class of cases in detail; many of them specifically maintain the
doctrine that negotiable instruments past due are transferable,
subject to equities. Notably, in .Miller v. Race, above cited;
Gorgier v. 2ieville, 3 B. & C. 45; Crouchv. Credit Foncierof
England, L. R. 8 Q. B. 374. Finally, these different claimants adverse to the Savings Institution, are standing in the
shoes of the robbers, so far as title goes. They derived under
them matured obligations which the Supreme Court of the United
States has repeatedly held to be governed by the laws of negotiable paper. And in Commissioners v. Clark, 94 U. S. 278, the
rule is clearly recognized that where there is illegality shown
in a previous holder the presumptions are against the title of
his transferee; and in all the cases, if the obligation is past due
when taken, it is subject to the right of former rightful owner.
MR.

JUsTicE Mx.LrHEws delivered the opinion of the court.

He recited the facts, as above stated, and continued:
The conclusions of law reached by the Court of Claims, on
which its judgments are founded, and which are stated and
supported in its opinion by the late learned Chief Justice of
that court, are comprised in these propositions: that if the
claimants, J. S. Morgan & Co., and L. Vo Hoffman & Co., or
any other party from whom they are shown to have bought,
had purchased the bonds in good faith for value before maturity, their-title would prevail against that of the Manhattan
Savings Institution, from whom they had been stolen; that, on
the face of these bonds, the United States, while fixing a day
of ultimate payment, after which they would certainly be
overdue, had also reserved the right of redemption at an earlier
time, at its pleasure after five years from date; that, as this
option could be exercised only by the United States, and not by
any officer or department of the government of its mere motion, it could be declared only by law, as was done in the act
of Congress of July 14, 1870 ; that this right of redemption,
being expressly reserved on the face of the bonds, was part of
the contract, of which every holder had notice by its terms, and,
as it could be exercised only by a public law, every holder sub-

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

sequent to the passage of such law must be held to know that it
might be, and when it had been, exercised; that, consequently,
the contract is to be read, after the passage of the act of July
14, 1870, as though the time of redemptiou fixed and declared
in pursuance of it by the call of the Secretary of the Treasury
had been originally written in it as the final day of payment;
and that, by way of conclusion, it must therefore be adjudged
that the claimants, against whom the judgment was passed,
were purchasers of overdue paper, and not entitled to the protection of the rule which otherwise would shield their title
against impeachment.
And it is insisted in argument that this conclusion is anticipated and required by the decisions of this court in the cases
of Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, and lermilye v. Adams Express
Co., 21 Wall. 138, 142. It becomes necessary, therefore, at the
outset, to examine those cases with particularity.
The bonds in controversy in the first of them were United
States coupon bonds, dated January 1, 1S51, payable, by their
terms, to the State of Texas or bearer, with interest at five per
cent., payable semi-annually, and "redeemable after the 31st
day of December, 1864.." Each bond contained a statement on
its face that the debt was authorized by act of Congress, and
was "transferable on delivery," and to each were attached sixmonth coupons, extending to December 31, 1864. White and
Chiles acquired their title on March 15, 1865.
The rules established in .Afrray v. Lardner, 2 Wall. 110,
118-" that the purchaser of coupon bonds, before due, without
notice and in good faith, is unaffected by want of title in the
seller, and that the burden of proof in respect- to notice andwant of good faith is on .the claimant of the bonds as against
the purchaser "-were repeated and reaffirmed, but it was
added: "These rules have never been applied to matured obligations. Purchasers of notes or bonds past due take nothing
but the actual right and title of the vendors. The bonds in
question were dated January 1, 1851, and were redeemable after
the 31st of December, 1864. In strictness, it is true they were
not payable on the day when they became redeemable, but the
known usage of the United States to pay all bonds as soon as

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the right of payment accrues, except when a distinction between
redeemability and payability is made by law and shown on the
face of the bonds, requires the application of the rule respecting overdue obligations to bonds of th6 United States which
have become redeemable, and in respect to which no such distinction has been made."
It appeared in the case that the bonds were the property of
the State of Texas on January 11, 1862, having come into her
possession and ownership-so the court declares-" through
public acts of the general government and of the 'State, which
gave notice to all the world of the transaction consummated by
them;" and the State, while thus their owner, in 1851, passed
a legislative act declaring that the bonds should be disposed of
"as may be provided by law," but that no bond should be
"available in the hands of any holder until the same shall have
been indorsed, in the city of Austin, by the governor of the State
of Texas." It was in reference to this legislation that the court
said: "And we think it clear that if a State, by a public act of
her legislature, imposes restrictions upon the alienation of her
property, that every person who takes a transfer of such property
must be held affected by notice of them. Alienation in disregard of such restrictions can convey no title to the alienee."
In 1862 the legislature of Texas repealed this act of 1851,
but the repealing act was held to be void, as an act of a State
government established in hostility to the Constitution of the
United States, and "intended- to aid rebellion by facilitating
the transfer of these bonds."
It further appeared that all the bonds which had been put in
circulation with the indorsement of the governor had been paid
in coin on presentation at the Treasury Department; "while,
on the contrary, applications for the payment of bonds without
the required indorsement, and of coupons detached from such
bonds, made to that department, had been denied. As a necessary consequence, the negotiatiofi of these bonds became difficult. They sold much below the rates they would have commanded had the title to them been unquestioned. They were
bought in fact, and, under the circumstances, could only have
been bought, upon speculation. The purchasers took the risk

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of a bad title, hoping, doubtless, that through the action of the
national government, or of the government of Texas, it might
be converted into a good one."
"On the whole case," the conclusion was, that the State of
Texas was entitled, under the bill, filed for that purpose, to reclaim the bonds from persons who had acquired title under the
circumstances stated.
The case came before the court again in another aspect, and
is reported as Texas v. Hardenerg,10 Wall. 68, in which the
grounds of the former decision were reconsidered and declared
to be satisfactory.
The same questions, as to part of the same issue of bonds, came
again before the court in f'uninon.v. Texas, 16 Wall. 402, in
which the two prior decisions were relied on, on behalf of
the State of Texas, as conclusive. The court rehearsed
the propositions decided in those cases, and referring to
the question, in regard to the invalidity of the act of 1862,
repealing the act of 1851, restricting the negotiability of the
bonds, said: "But it must be observed that we have not held
that such a repealing act was absolutely void, and that the title
of the State could in no case be divested. On the contrary,
it may be fairly inferred from what was said in Texas v.
RTite, that if the bonds were issued and used for a lawful purpose, the title passed to the holder unaffected by any claim of
the State. Title to the bonds issued to White and Chiles was
held not to be divested out of the State, because of the unlawful purpose with which they were issued, and because the holders were, in our opinion, chargeable with notice of the invalidity of their issue and of their unlawful use."
Some of the same issue of bonds were in litigation before this
court in
6ationa4
Bank of Washington y.Texas, 20 Wall. 72.
In that case the title of the appellant was acquired after the
31st aay of December, 1864, when they became redeemable,
and they were not indorsed by the governor. It was alleged
that they were issued and used in aid of the rebellion, but the
fact, and all knowledge of it on the part of the appellant, was
denied, and the court found the allegations were not sustained
by the proof. The question "whether the bonds were overdue,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

in the sense which puts a purchaser of dishonored negotiable
paper on the inquiry as to defences which may be set up against
it," was exTressly waived, in the opinion of the court, because,
it being "quite clear that they were transferable by delivery
after due, the same as before," it followed that, "to invalidate
the title so acquired by a purchaser, it is necessary to make out
some defect in that title," which the court decided had not
been done. In answer to the point that the title of the appellant failed for want of an indorsement by the governor, in support of which Texas v. White and Texas v. Jiardenbergwere
cited, the court said:
"On an examination of the report of that case it will be seen
that the court was of opinion that it was established, both in
evidence and by the answers of some of the parties, that the
bonds then in controversy were all of them issued to White
and Chiles, and the illegal contract on which they were issued
was in evidence, and the court was further of opinion that the
parties had notice of these facts."
As to what was said in Texas v. White, that the indorsement
of the governor was essential to the title of a purchaser, on the
ground that the State could, by statute, while the bonds were
in its possession, limit their negotiability by requiring as one of
its conditions the indorsement of the goVernor, and that the
repeal of tht statute, in view of its supposed treasonable purpose, was void, it is remarked byj the court: "All of this, however, was unnecessary to the decision of that case, and the
soundness of the proposition may be doubted."
In the case of lFermilye v. Adams Express Co., 21 Wall.
138, the controversy involved the title to treasury notes
issued under the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 468, payable
to the holder three years after date, and dated July 15, 1865,
bearing interest payable semi-annually, for which coupons
were attached, except for the interest of the last six months ;
that was to be paid with the principal when the notes were
presented. On the back of each note was this statement:
"At maturity, convertible at the option of the holder into
bondW, redeemable at the pleasure of the government at any
time after five years, and payable twenty years from June 15th,

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

1868, with interest at six per cent. per annum payable semi;
annually in coin."

The notes in question were stolen from the Express Company
and subsequently bought by Yermilye & Co., bankers in New
York; but, at the time of the purchase, more than three years
had elapsed from the .date of their issue, and the Secretary of
the Treasury had given notice that they would be paid or converted into bonds at the option of thd holder on presentation
to the department, and that they had ceased to bear interest.
The judgment of the court sustaining the title of the Express
Company was founded on the fact, that the purchase was
made after the maturity of the obligations. Mr. Justice Miller,
delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"They had the ordinary form of negotiable instruments,
payable at a definite time, and that time had passed and they
were unpaid. This was obvious on the face of the paper."
It was further shown that the fact that the holder had an
option to convert them into other bonds did not change their
character in this respect; and "that the simple fact that they
were the obligations of the government" did n ot take them
"out of the rule which subjects the purchaser of overdue paper
to an inquiry into the circumstances under which it was made,
as regards the rights of antecedent holders." And referring to
the case of Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, where the bonds were
redeemable after the 31st day of -December, 1864, it was stated
that the court had there held "that after that date they were
to be considered as overdue paper, in regard to their negotiability, observing that in strictness it is true they were not
payable on the day when they became redeemable, but the
known usage of the United States to pay all bonds as soon
as the right of payment accrues, except when a distinction
between redeemability and payability is made by law and
shown on the face of the bonds, requires the application df the
rule respecting overdue obligations to bonds of the United
States which have become redeemable and in respect to which
no such distinction is made." Mr. Justice Miller then added :
"We have not quoted the language from the opinion in that
case with any view of affirming it. It may admit of grave

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

doubt whether such bonds, redeemable but not payable at a
certain day, except at the option of ,he government, do become
overdue in the sense of being dishonored if not paid or redeemed on that day. But the notes in the case before us have
no such feature. They are absolutely payable at a certain
time, and we think the case is authority for holding that such
an obligation, overdue, ceases to be negotiable in the sense
which frees the transaction from all inquiry into the rights of
antecedent holders. This ground is sufficient of itself to justify the decree in favor of the Express Company."
It is apparent that the original decision of the court in referrence to the Texas indemnity bonds in Texas v. White, 7 Wall.
100, has been questioned and limited in important particulars
in the subsequent cases involving the same questions. The
position there taken that the legislature of Texas, while the
State was owner of the bonds, could limit their negotiability
by an act of legislation, of which all subsequent purchasers
were charged with notice, although the bofids on their face
were payable to bearer, must be regarded as overruled. And
the.further position that negotiable government securities, redeemable at the pleasure of the government after a specified
day, but in which no date is fixed for final payment, cease to
be negotiable as overdue after the day named when they first
become redeemable, must be regarded as limited to cases where
the title of the purchaser is acquired with notice of the defect
of title, or under circumstances which discredit the instrument,
such as would affect the title to negotiable paper payable on
demand, when purchased after an unreasonable lengti of time
from the date of issue.
In addition to this, the opinion of Chief Justice Chase in the
first case expressly excepts from the rule of the decision, out of
the class of overdue obligations to which it is applied, those in
which "a distinction between redeemability and payability is
made by law and shown on the face of the bonds;" an exception which embraces and defines the very bonds now in
question; for, by law, as well as by the terms of the obligation,
they were redeemable at the pleasure of the government after
the first day of July, 1870, but were payable, finally and un-

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opiniou of the Court.

conditionally, on the first day of July, 1885; and the interest
coupons attached covered the whole period until the date of
ultimate payment. So that, in no aspect, can the cases cited
be considered as governing the present, unless, indeed, the implications from them may be treated as furnishing the rule
which determines that, at the time when the title of the claimants, in these cases adjudged invalid, accrued, these bonds were
not overdue.
The single question in the present cases is whether the bonds
in controversy were overdue at the time of the purchase by
those who claim title against the Manhattan Savings Institution? That question must be resolved by a proper construction
of the contract, contained in the bonds themselves, assuming it
to be still open, so far as affected by previous judicial decisions;
and, in construing the contract, it must be conceded that the
obligations 6f the government in this form are governed by
the rules of the law merchant regulating negotiable securities,
modified only, if at all, by the laws of the United States, under
the authority of which they were created and put in circulation ;
and of those .laws, and of whatever was lawfully done or declared by the government or its officers in pursuance of them,
it is also to be admitted, every holder must be conclusively presumed to have had knowledge.
On their face, these bonds are payable on the first day of
July, 1885, and are redeemable at the pleasure of the United
States after the first day of July, 1870. This was in conformity to the act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 468, under which
they were issued, which expressly authorized that they might
be made payable at any period not more than forty years from
date of issue, or that they might be made redeemable a' the
pleasure of the government at or after 'any period, not less
than five nor more than forty years from date, or might be
made both redeemable and payable, as aforesaid, as should be
expressed upon their face. They were accordingly made both
redeemable and payable as was expressed upon their face.
'The pleasure of the government to redeem them, or any part
of them, of course, could only be declared by law. Provision
to this effect was made by the act of July 14, 1870, which proVOL. cxm-32

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the, Court.

vided the means for actual redemption by the sale or exchange
of the bonds which it authorized the SecretaiT of the TreasUry
to issue, and required him to designate by public notice, from
time to time, by class, date and number, in the order of their
numbers and issue, the particular bonds to be redeemed by payment and cancellation. And the effect, as to all bonds called for
redemption and not sooner presented, was declared to be that,
"in three months after the date of such public notice, the interest on the bonds so selected and advertised shall cease."
It may be admitted, for the sake of the argument-although
the proposition cannot be considered indisputable-that, after
the maturity of a call for the redemption of designated bonds,
the obligation of the government to pay them thereby became
fixed and irrevocable, so that thereafter, on demand and refusal of payment, an action would accrue to the holder for the
recovery of the principal and accrued interest, the Court of
Claims having jurisdiction in such cases.
In that view, preserving the distinction expressly made by
the law between redeemability and payability, the bond becomes, after the maturity of a call for redemption, payable at
the option of the holder on demand, but without future interest,
at any time prior to the day fixed for ultimate payment, when
it becomes unconditionally due. The construction which, after
the maturity of such a call, reads the contract as if the day
when interest is to cease had been originally inserted as
the day of ultimate payment, confounds and obliterates the
express distinction made in the law itself between redeemability and payability, and rewrites the contract upon a different basis. The legal effect of the call undoubtedly is to entitle
the holder to. demand payment at its maturity, and, even
though not demanded, to exonerate the government from
liability for interest accruing after that date; but, consistently
with the terms of the statutes and the obvious purposes in view
in the original creation and issue of the securities in the form
adopted, it cannot be, that the legal effect of such a call for
the purpose of redemption is the same as if the bond had been
originally framed as an obligation to pay absolutely on a day
previously fixed.

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The acts of Congress, under which these and similar bonds
of the United States were authorized and issued, do not in
terms attach to them the legal quality of negotiable securities;
but they are such in form and fact, and obviously for the purpose of giving them the highest credit and the widestand most
-unfettered currency, by passing by delivery with a title unimpeachable in the hands of bona fide purchasers for value. In
the form in which those now in question were issued, until a
call for their redemption was advertised, they were not due
upon their face until the day fixed for final payment; and the
right reserved to the government, at its option, to anticipate
the payment cannot be construed as affecting the contract injuriously to the holder, any further than the law declaring it,
either expressly or by necessary implication, requires. That
law gives to the holder three months after the date of the call
for redemption within which to present his bonds for payment
or exchange, with interest to the date of redemption; but the
only penalty it prescribes, if the holder chooses to retain his
original security, is the loss of future interest. In no other
respect does it alter the original contract. It seeks to impose
upon it no other *disability,nor take from it any other immunity. It stands, therefore, upon its statutory basis, as a
bond redeemable at the Treasury on demand without interest
after the maturity of the call, payable according to its original
terms, and not overdue, in the commercial sense, till after. the
day of unconditional payment. If the obligation had been
originally written in that form-a promise to pay absolutely
on the 1st day of July, 1885, with interest according to the
coupons attached, but redeemable at the Treasury at and after
July 1, 1870, interest to cease three months thereafter if not
presented for redemption within that period-it would have
expressed in advance the exact contract, as it became by the
exercise of the reserved option of redemption ; and in that. form,
it seems to us quite plain that it could not be c6nsidered an
overdue obligation, in the sense in which that term is applied
to ordinary commercial paper, until after the limit fixed for
final payment had been passed.
The title of the purchaser of overdue negotiable paper, such

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

as a bill of exchange or a promissory note, stands on the same
footing as if it had been dishonored by a refusal to accept or
pay, and had been put under protest. When transferred after
it has._become due, although not reduced to the rank of an
ordinary chose in action, the legal title to which cannot pass
by assignment or delivery, it carries on its face the presumption
which discredits it, and deprives it of that immunity which,
while the time for payment was still running, was secured
to it in favor of a bona fide purchaser for value without actual
notice of any defect, either in the obligation or the title. This
wa&put by Mr. Justice Buller, in Brown v. Da!vim, 3 T. iR. 80,
on the ground that to take an overdue note or bill was "out
of the common course of dealing." Ordinarily a note or bill
when due becomes fundu8 ojlcio, because it was made to be
paid at maturity, and if it fails of its intended operation and
effect, the presumption is that it is owing to some defect, which
has furnished a sufflcient reason to the party apparently
chargeable for not having punctually performed his obligation.
In the strong language of Lord Ellenborough in Tinson v.
_pancis, 1 Camp. 19, "after a bill or note is due it comes disgraced-to the indorsee."
No such presumption, in our opinion, arses to affect the title
of a holder of the bonds of the United States, such as those
now.in question, acquired by a bopa fide purcbasgr for value
prior to the date fixed' in the bonds themselves for their ultimate payment; for, as we have already shown, the only change in the original effect of the contract by the. exercise of the
right of earlier redemption is to stop the obligation to pay
future interest. And as against one choosing for anypurpose
of his own toretain his bond as a continuing security for the
value it always represents, having impressed upon it by the law
of its creation the faculty of passing from hand to hand as
money, and therefore just as useful in the pursuits of trade and
the exchanges of commerce and banking as so much money in
the form of coin or bank notes, and more convenient because
more portable, no such presumption can be entertained on the
ground that its continued circulation is not in the due course of
business, that it has fully performed all its intended functions,

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and that ithas been in any sense dishonored by a refusal on
the part of the obligor to- fulfil its obligation. On the contrary, supposing the purchaser bound to know, what in fact
does not appear on its face, that the-bond has been called for
redemption under penalty of a stoppage of interest after three
months, the very notice, which, it is said, discredits his title, is
in fact an advertisement, not that the maker has any ground to
refuse payment, but that the previous holder preferred to hold
the security for the money rather than to accept the money
which it represents.
As we have seen, the true effect to be given to the exercise
of the right of redemption within the period of absolute payment is to make the bonds payable during that interval, on demand, but without interest, after three months from the maturity of the call. But the rule, as to ordinary negotiable paper,
payable on demand, is that it is not due, without demand, until
after the lapse of a reasonable time within which to make demand; and what the length of that reasonable time is, may
vary according to the circumstances of particular cases, and
must be governed very largely by the intentions of the parties,
as manifested in the character of the paper itself, and the purposes for which it is known to have been created and put in
circulation. It is said by Baron Parke, in Brooks v. iXitchell,
9 M. & W. 15, that "a promissory note, payable on demand,
is intended to be a continuing security." And in Losee v.
Dunkin, 7 Johns. 70, it is said: "The demand must be made
in reasonable time, and that will depend upon the circumstances of the case and the situation of the parties." 'Inreference to the bonds involved in this litigation, we have no hesitation in saying that, at the time the title of the purchasers
was acquired, no unreasonable length of time had elapsed after
the maturity of the call. On the contrary, we think any
holder had a right, without prejudice, except as to loss of
interest, to wait without demand for the whole period, at the
expiration of which the bond was unconditionally payable.
The fact that interest was to cease to accrue three months
after the date of call, had no tendency to discredit the bonds
or affect the title of a bona fide purchaser for value in the due

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour.

course of trade. While it has been held that a note, the principal of which is payable by instalments, is overdue when the
first instalment is overdue and unpaid, and is thereby subject
to all equities between the original parties, Vinton v. Zing,
4 Allen, 562, yet, it is said by the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts in National Bank of North America v. Xirby,
108 Mass. 497, 501, "We are referred to no case in which it
has been held that failure to pay interest, standing alone, is to
be regarded sufficient in law to throw such discredit upon the
principal security upon which it is due, as to subject the holder
-tothe full extent of the security, to antecedent equities." "To
hold otherwise," said this court in C'omwell v. County of Sac,
96 U. S. 51, 58, "would throw discredit upon a large class of
securities issued by municipal and private corporations, having
years to run, with interest payable annually or semi-annually."
And the doctrine was reaffirmed in Railway Co. v. Sprague,
103 U. S. 756. These were cases where non-payment of interest was in breach of the contract and constituted a default.
It is much stronger,. in its application here, where the obligation to pay interest ceases because that is the contract, to which
the holder of the bond has consented and to which he submits,
because he prefers to hold a security, although not bearing interest, rather than to surrender it at once.
But an adequate and complete view of the nature and function of the right of redemption reserved in these bonds, and
of its intended effect upon the rights of the parties under the
contract, cannot be had without considering it in its actual
operation and execution. The clause which makes the bonds
redeemable was not a casual provision occurring in a single
obligation, but was an effective and significant instrument in a
series of great financial transactions. The five-twenty bonds
issued under the acts of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 668, and April
12, 1866, 14 Stat. 31, as we are informed by public official
documents, amounted to $958,483,550, nearly a thousaud millions of dollars.
On March 1, 18-71, the nearest date prior to the commencement of operations under the refunding act of 18'70, the follow.
ing amounts of six per cent. 5-20 bonds were outstanding:

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
Five-twenties of 186.2 ......................... $493,138,350
3,102,6Q0
Five-twenties of March, 1864 ..................

Five-twenties of June, 1864 .................... 102o,028,900
Five-twenties of 1865 .......... 182,-112,450
Act March 3, Consols of 1865 ............... 264,619,700
Consols of 1867 ............... 338,832,550
1865.
Consols of 1868 ............... 89,663,750
"The National Loans of the United States," by Baily, Washington, 1882, p. 94.
Of these, large amounts were held abroad by investors in
foreign countries, and had been dealt in by bankers in the
principal money centres of the world. It was expected and
desired by Congress that this should be so, as the Secretary of
the Treasury had been expressly authorized by law to dispose
of any of the bonds of the United States, "either in the United
States or elsewhere." Act of March 3, 1865, 2. And under
the refunding act of July 14, 1870, as we have already seen,
the Secretary of the Treasury established an agency in London
for the purpose of delivering the bonds sold under that act,
and receiving in exchange therefor the outstanding securities
of the United States agreed to be received in payment therefor. The object of this great exchange was to reduce the annual interest on the public debt of the United States from six
to the lower rates of five, four and a half, and four per cent.
To have called in the redeemable debt and paid for it in gold
coin, and to have obtained the gold coin for that purpose by
sales of the new securities, would have been awkward, circuitous, and impracticable, involving the needless export and import of a mass of the gold coin distributed by the necessities
of the world's commerce throughout its mar:ets, the attempt to
do which would have produced disturbances of market values,
certain to have defeated it. Any transfer of specie, in large
amounts, to meet balances occasioned by these operations,
would have been almost as serious in its effects, and was,
therefore, by every consideration of public and private interests, to be avoided. The difficult practical question was how
to avoid it, how to substitute in the markets of the world one

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

loan for the other, by an exchange of securities, without any
serious and disturbing movement of coin. Congress had placed
it within the power of the Secretary of the Treasury to accomplish this by authorizing him to receive the five-twenty bonds,
to be redeemed in exchange at par for the bonds to be issued
at a lower rate of interest. This he was enabled to do by calling in the five-twenty bonds for redemption, by which they
were made equal in value as money to par and interest then
due, and by agreeing to treat and receive them as money in
the exchange. This created a demand for the "called bonds"
to be used for that purpose, and they were bought from the
holders by bankers and agents of the syndicates who had contracted to place the new-loans under the act of 1870. This
transaction could only have been successfully effected upon the
assumption that the call for redemption did not affect the negotiable quality of the bonds, nor impose upon them any disability, except the cessation of interest after the maturity of
the call, nor deprive them of any.other immunity which had
previously belonged to them. On the contrary, it must have
been within the contemplation of the Treasury Department,
and of those with whom it was dealing, that the "called
bonds," until finally absorbed by payments into the Treasury
in exchange for new bonds, which constituted the fact of redemption, were equivalent, in all legal qualities, to money
itself, or to those usual equivalents of money which circulate,
without questibn, as such, like treasury notes payable on demand. And this view, we have already seen, the parties were
authorized and justified in adopting by the language and purposes of the statutes under which the transactions were accomplished. By this means an enormous public debt was shifted
and converted, so as largely to reduce the burden of its interest; the agents of the government were facilitated in the great
work they had undertaken; the individual holders of the securities of the United States, scattered throughout the countries
of Europe, received the money due them on the bonds for
which they subscribed, at their own domicils; and this series
of great financial operations was successfully accomplished
without interference with the usual course of the business of

MORGAN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the world, without disturbing the fixed distribution of currency
which commerce had apportioned to its appropriate markets,
and without unsettling the value of property or labor either at
-home or ibroad. These beneficial results were greatly facilitated, if not made feasible, by the unquestioned negotiability
of the called bonds, which, when subjected to the right of redemption reserved by their terms, were thereafter considered
and treated as the equivalent of money. This could not have
been if the principles which protect bo& fide purchasers for
value, in the due course of trade, without actual notice of a
defect in the obligation or title, had not been practically
adopted. The practice,. as found to have existed, was, in our
opinion, well warranted by law.
This confidence was invited by the convenience of the government itself, and certainly promoted its interests and advanced
itspurposes. The practice it engendered, on the part of the public
dealing in its securities, had been expressly sanctioned by formal
recognition-and approval by the Treasury Department long prior
th'the niegotiation of the war loans, which commenced in 1862.
In 1860 AttorneyGeneral Black officially advised the Secretary
of the Treasury, 9 Opinions, 413, that treasury notes, redeemable after one year from date, -interest thereon to cepe at the
expirafion .thereafter of sixty days' notice of readiness to pay
and redeem the same,_*ere intended to be a continuing security,
and to pass by delivery after-the period of redemption equally
as before, as money or bank notes not, liable to any equities
between the original or intermediate parties.
It was, by force of such a custom, declared by Lord Selborne
"to be the legitimate, natural and intended consequence (unless
there should be any law to prohibit it) of that representation
and engagement which appears on the face of the scrip itself,
when construed according to the obvious import of, its terms,"
that in the case of Goodwin v. Robartq, first in the Exchequer
Chamber, L. R. 10 Ex. 337, and afterwards in the House of
Lords, 1 App. Cas. 476, an instrument, payable to bearer in the
bonds of a foreign government, was held to be negotiable by
delivery, on the ground that, "after those payments had been
made and receipts for them signed, the scrip was - much a

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

symbol of money due and as capable of passing current upon
the principle explained in the authorities, with respect to bank
notes and exchequer bills, as the bonds themselves would have
been if they had been actually delivered in exchange for it."
1 App. Cas. 497.
We are, therefore, of opinion that the title of J. S. Morgan &
Co., and of L. Von Hoffman & Co., respectively, to the bonds
claimed by them, ought to have prevailbd against that set up
by the Manhattan Savings Institution; and for error in not so
holding,
The several judgments of the Court of Claims,in these cases
are reversed, and the causes are remanded to that court,
with directions to renderjudgments in accordancewith thi8
opinion.

PROVIDENT INSTITUTION FOR SAVINGS v. MAYOR
& ALDERMEN OF JERSEY CITY.
IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF CHANCERY OF THE STATE OF NEW
JERSEY.
Submitted January 9, 1885.-Decided March 2,1885.

An act which makes water rents a charge upon lands in a municipality, with a
lien prior to all encumbrances, in the same manner as taxes and assessments, gives them priority over mortgages on such lands made after the
passage of the act, whether the water was introduced on the lot mortgaged
before or after the giving of the mortgage.
An act thus making water rates a charge upon lands in a municipality prior to
the lien of all encumbrances, does no violation to that portion of the
14th Amendment to the Constitution which declares that no State shall
deprive any person of property without due process of law.
It is not necessary in this case to decide as to the effect of such act upon mortgages existing at the time of its enactment; but even in that case the court
is not prepared to say that it would be repugnant to the Constitution.

This was a bill in equity filed in the Court of Chancery of
New Jersey by the appellant, to foreclose two mortgages
given to it on a certain lot in Jersey, City by Michael Nugent
and wife, and another person, the first being dated. January

