HOLLISTER v. BENEDICT MANUFACTURING CO. 59
Syllabus.

The instruction by the court below proceeded upon the
ground that the payment by Arndt in cash and notes of the
amount which he agreed to pay, and their receipt and entry
upon the books of the firm to his credit, gave him an interest
as partner in the business; whereas such facts only established
the performance of some, not of all, the conditions prescribed;
for, by the agreement, the formation of the proposed corporation was expressly made a condition, with the others named, to
Arndt's becoming interested in the business.
In our judgment, looking at the whole agreement, the parties did not contemplate a partnership, and none was ever established between them. The agreement looked only to a corporation, the payments and other things specified being in preparation for its ultimate formation, which was an adequate, as it
was the actual, consideration; consequently, there was, prior to
the loss, and under the most liberal interpretation of the policies, no change in the title or possession of the property, nor
any transfer thereof, that avoided the policies.
This is ufficien.t to dispose of the case. For the reasons
given

The judgment must be reversed and a new t7r0iaZ

d.

HOLLISTER, Collector, v. BENEDICT & BURNHAM
MANUFACTURING COMPAiNY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued November 11, 12, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.

Novelty and increased utility in an improvement upon previous devices do not
necessarily make it an invention.
A device which displays only the expected skill of the maker's calling, and involves only the exercise of ordinary faculties of reasoning upon materials
supplied by special knowledge and facility of manipulation resulting from
habitual intelligent practice, is in no sense a creative work of inventive

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
faculty, such as the Constitution and the patent laws aim to encourage and
ieward.
The third claim in the specification and claims of the patent issued to Edward
A. Locke, August 3, 1869, for an improvement in revenue stamps, although
new and useful, is not such an improvement upon the devices previously in
use, as entitles it to be regarded as an invention.
While it would seem clear that a suit may be maintained in the Court of
Claims against the United States to recover for the use of a patented invention by an officer of the government for its benefit, if the right of the
patentee is acknowledged; Semble, that it may even be maintained when
the exclusive right of the patentee is contested.

This was a bill in equity brought by the assignees of a patent
granted to Edvard A. Locke, August 3, 1869, for an "improvement of a revenue stamp for bhrrels, and- identifying
marks, stamps, or labels, for revenue purposes," against a collector of internal revenue. The bill alleged infringements by
the defendant, and prayed for a temporary injunction, a perpetual injunction, an accounting, and damages. The answer
set up the official position of the defendant in the use of the
stamps alleged to be infringements; denied that he had infringed ; denied that the alleged invention was new or useful,
or that it was patentable; and averred that so much of it as related to the cancellation, affixing, and removal of stamps, and
identification of packages was not patentable.
The court below sustained the patent., and found that the
defendant had infringed it, and decreed a perpetual injunction,
and an accounting, and the payment of what might be found
due as profits. From this decree the collector appealed.
.X, . Assistant .Atorney-GeneraZ.-Mauryfor appellant.
Hr. S.

K..-ellogg and Xk.

ToAn S. Beach for appellee.

MiR. JUSTIC MLrrTIEWS delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill in equity to enjoin the alleged infringement of
letters patent No. 93, 391, issued to Edward A. Locke for certain
improvements in identifying revenue marks or labels, dated
August 3, 1869, the appellees being assignees of the patentee,

HOLLISTER v. BENEDICT MANUFACTURING CO. 61
Opinion of the Court.

and the appellant, the collector of internal revenue for the
Second Collection District of Connecticut.
The specification and claims, with the accompanying drawings, are as follows:

9 8

~ N9A909062

"This invention is designed more especially for use in sealing
liquor casks with identifying marks or labels for revenue purposes, and in such a manner that while truly designating the
contents of the cask, or giving such other indication as may be
demanded, they cannot be fraudulently removed.
"Fig. 1 represents a printed ppaper revenue stamp, the circular
portion at the right hand being the stamp pr6per, which is applied to the cask or box, and the portion at the left hand being
the ' stub,' or that portion retained by the government official.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour

Fig. 2 represents a separate strip, which is showin in Fig. 1 as
attached at its left end to the stub of the paper stamp proper,
in such manner that its coupons may be readily cut off and permanently affixed to the stamp proper when the latter is secured
to the cask. Fig. 3 represents a metallic piece or strip, shown
as detached, and before being applied to the stamp.
"The main body of the sheet of paper being printed substantially as shown, so as to designate by a letter of the alphabet,
or otherwise, the appropriate series, and with blanks for the
particular number of each series, and also with a number indicating numbers of gallons, &c., in tens, has also a series of
numbers, from one to nine, inclusive, any one of which may be
punched out by the proper official, in accordance with the
actual number of gallons contained in the vessel. Thus, if 126
be the proper, number of gallons, and 120 be the whole number
printed upon the particular stamp, the officer, in order to indicate 126, would punch through the digital number 6, both
upon the circular stamp, and upon its 'stub' or counter-check.
"The piece shown in Fig. 3 I prefer to make of thin metal,
because more readily embossed or impressed with permanent
or ineffaceable characters, and because less destructible in handling and transmission, after it shall have been torn away from
the stamp. This piece (also shown in part in Fig. 1) may be
conveniently made of oblong, or any appropriate form, its conditions being merely, so far as concerns its shape, that it be of
sufficient size to extend beyond the opening made in the paper
for the exposure of the letters and figures made on it, and be
capable of being retained in its place between the paper and
another backing-piece of paper, the two pieces of paper being
gummed together for this purpose. This backing-piece I prepare with dried gum on its outer face, that the stamp may be
always ready by merely moistening the gum for instant application to the cask.
"The strip shown in Fig. 2 I secure in part to the left side
of the paper, by gumming its remaining portion, upon which
are coupons for the units, being dry-gummed on its under side,
so that when the proper number of gallons has been deter-

HOLLISTER' . BENEDICT MANUFACTURING CO. 63
Opinion of the Court.

mined, the officer, upon cutting off the coupons at the figure
designating the unit or digital number required, may, by moistening it, instantly, and without cutting or injuring the stamp,
apply it to the stamp, while the stub or remaining portion of
the slip will correspondingly indicate thereon just- what has
been so detached and applied to the stamp. Thus, to indicate126 gallons, 120 being the whole number of the stamp, the
coupon slip is cut off between the numbers 6 and 7, and the
piece so cut off is moistened on the back and permanently attached to the face of the stamp, the 6 being the significant figure of the coupon.
"The mode of applying a stamp so made to a cask may be,
by way of greater protection against liability to damage or
accident, as shown and described in my patent No. 58,847that is, by boring a shallow depression in the wood of the cask
or case, and after affixing the stamp by its gum to the bottom
of this depression, then placing over it a ring having downturned edges, and, by pressing the same, forcing its outer edge
into the wood. Or the wood may have an annular groove cut
therein to receive the edge of the ring when so forced home.
"Instead of making the removable piece out of metal, or of
making it in a piece separate friom the stamp, it may be made
of the same piece of paper of which the stamp is composed, by
simply having its .outline perforated after the manner.of postage stamps, but ungummed at its back, so as readily to be torn
away and detached from the stamp.
"Although I have shown and described a lining-paper, between which and the stamp or surface-paper the metal slip is
held, yet I may dispense with such lining and employ a thicker
paper for the stamp, the metal strip in such cases, if preferred,
being confined or held to it by having its ends pass through
slits made in the paper for such purpose. Or the metal piece
may have points or projections at its ends or corners, or elsewhere, which may be forced or passed through the paper and
clinched on the under side.
"For the purpose of readily separating the circular stamp
from the sheet, I perforate it about its periphery with any

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

suitable slits, cuts, or openings adapted to the thickness or texture of the paper. I also prefer to have'the stamps prepared
with blanks and dotted lines, on which the collector, gauger,
and storekeeper may place their signatures, as shown in
Fig. 1.
"It is to be understood that the metallic or other slip, the
stub or check part of the stamp paper, and also the stub of the
coupon piece, are all to be consecutively numbered alike for
each alphabetical series, the capital letter A in the drawings
indicating the alphabetical series, and the number immediately
to the right thereof indicating a number in the consecutive
numbers of such series.
"For convenience I prefer to have the stamps, after being
printed, bound up in book form, after the manner of Merchants' or bankers' check books, so that each stamp, as cut out,
shall leave in the book its corresponding marginal piece or stub,
having thereon a record of letters, figures, marks, &c., according with those upon such stamps.
"I claim"1. A stamp, the body of which is made of paper or other
suitable material, and having a removable slip of metal or other
material, displaying thereon a serial number or other specific
identifying mark corresponding with a similar mark upon the
stub, and so attached that the removal of such slip must mutilate or destroy the stamp.
"2. In a paper revenue stamp for indicating the contents of
a cask, and having thereon a number designating the number
of gallons or other measure, providing the stamp, and also its
stub or check-piece, with corresponding digital numbers, to be
punched out to indicate the units, substantially as described.
"3. In combination with a paper stamp having a check-piece
or stub, from which it is detached- when applied for use, a coupon slip, whose coupons are to be secured to the face of the
stamps, as and for the purpose described."
The following is a copy of the face of the tax-paid internal
revenue stamp used by the appellant and claimed to be an
infringement of the patent:

HOLLISTER v. BENEDICT MANUFACTURING CO. 65
Opinion of the Court.

CoPY oF HOLLISTER REVENUE STAMP.
.emovable part is indicated by linee.

As described by the complainant's witnesses, this stamp "is
composed of a single thickness of paper, on the face of which
the number and registering marks are conveniently placed.
On the back-di this stamp is a piece of paper somewhat wider
VOL. Cxm--5

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

than the surface on which the number and registering marks
are printed. The two edges of this back-piece are caused to
adhere to the back of the stamp, one above and the other below
that portion of the surface which indicates the number, contents, etc. The back of the stamp, between the two edges of
this strip or back-piece, is free and loose. The object of this is
that when the back of the stamp is coated with adhesive
material and attached to the barrel, that portion of the surface
of the stamp which is covered by the strip or back-piece will
not adhere to the barrel, hence, after the stamp is secured to
the barrel that portion of the stamp on which are the registering marks may be removed, and preserve the marks and figures
thereon, the removal of that part defacing the stamp as well as
preserving the record, and this can be done because that portion
of the stamp which is removed is prevented from adb."ing to
the barrel. To remove this portion it is only necessary to
separate that portion from the body at its two edges."
This is marked in the record as Complainant's Exhibit Hollister Revenue Stamp.
The present controversy relates to the first claim of the
Locke patent, in respect to which alone the decree appealed
from established an infringement. It is as follows:
"A stamp, the body of which is made of paper or other material, and having a removable slip of metal or other material,
displaying thereon a serial number or other specific identifying
mark corresponding with a similar mark upon the stub, and so
attached that the removal of such slip must mutilate or destroy
the stamp."
One of the defences relied on by the appellant is thus stated
in the answer, and, in matter of fact, is by stipulation admitted
to be true:
"First. That any and all acts complained of in said bill by
the said petitioner as done by the respondent were done and
performed by him in the discharge of his duties as collector of
internal revenue for the United States for a designated collection district of the State of Connecticut, and by direction of the
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, an officer of the Treasury
Department of the United States; that any revenue stamps by

HOLLISTER v. BENEDICT MANUFACTURING CO. 67
Opinion of the Court.
him used have been furnished by the Bureau of Internal Revenue, of which said Commissioner is the official head, for use in
the discharge of said duties as collector, and the same have
been used solely as a means of collecting the taxes due to the
United States, which said taxes have been imposed by the laws
of the United States, and the manner of said collection, as followed by said collector, regulated and authorized by such laws;
that said respondent has acted as such collector by virtue of
legal appointments thereto by the President of the United
States, duly confirmed by the Senato of the United States, for
and during all the times mentioned in said bill of complaint?'
It was authoritatively declared in James v. Camjbell, 104
U. S. 356, that the right of the patentee, under letters patent
for an invention granted by the United States, was exclusive
of the government of the United States as well as of all 6thers,
and stood on the footing of all other property, the right to
which was secured, as against the government, by the constitutional guaranty which prohibits the taking of private
property for public use without compensation; but doubts were
expressed whether a suit could be sustained, such as the present,
against public officers, or whether a suit upon an implied promise of indemnity might not be prosecuted against the United
States by name in the Court of Claims. If the right of the
patentee was acknowledged, and, without his consent, an officer
of the government, acting under legislative authority, made use
of the invention in the discharge of his official duties, it would
seem to be a clear case of the exercise of the right of eminent
domain, upon which the law would imply a promise of compensation, an action on which would lie, within the jurisdiction
of the Court of Claims, such as was entertained and sanctioned
in the case of The United States v. 1he Great 1a7s MHanu.facturing 0o., 112 U. S. 645. And it may be, that, even if the
exclusive right 9 f the patoptee were contested, such an action
might be brought in that cburt, involving all questions relating
to the validity of the patent; but, as we have concluded to dispose of the present appeal upon other grounds, it becomes unnecessary to decide the question arising upon this defence. It
is referred to only for the purpose of excluding any infer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour.

ence that might be drawn from our passing it over without
notice.
The course of business in the collection of the revenue upon
distilled spirits, so far as the use of these stamps is involved, is
explained by Mr. Chapman, a witness for the defendant below,
who had been chief of the stamp division in the Internal Revenue Office. He says:
"After spirits have been produced they are drawn from the
cistern into the barrels, and there is attached to each barrel a
stamp, called a warehouse stamp, together with certain marks
and brands put on simultaneously with the stamp; this stamp
is an oblong piece of paper, properly engraved, with blanks, in.
which are inserted the numbers of the package, the number of
wine and.proof gallons contained therein, name of the distiller,
location of the distillery, and are signed by the storekeeper and
gauger 6n duty at the distillery; this stamp is merely used as a
check, and does not represent a tax; the stamp consists of but
one piece of paper about three by two inches, and is attached
by paste or other adhesive material, and by tacks at the corner
and centre, by the gauger on duty at the distillery; this stamp
(warehouse) has been in use from 1868 to the present time, and
no- change has been made in the construction of, the same, the
only changes being in the quality and kind of paper used and
the designs of the engraving.
"The package is then removed to the bonded warehouse of
the distillery, where it remains until the distiller files with the
collector of the district a paper, called an entry for withdrawal;
this paper is accompanied by the amount of the tax upon the
spirits-contained .4n the package; the collector thereupon fills
out, signs, and forwards to. the gauger the tax-paid stamp, which
is a piece of paper nearly square, upon the face of which is engraved the body of the stamp, together with nine coupons, of
which stamp and coupons, with the stub that remains in the,
books from which the stamp is cut, complainant's Exhibit
Hollister Revenue Stamp is a copy.
"From 1868 until about 1M1 this stamp, which has always,
been called the tax-paid stainp, was constructed of two pieces
of paper; before the stamp was printed, the paper of which the

HOLLISTER v. BENEDICT MANUFACTURING CO. 69
Opinion of the Court.

body of the stamp was composed was perforated with a round
aperture, about one and a half inches in diameter; to the back
of the paper was then attached, by paste or mucilage, a. piece
of tissue paper, completely covering said aperture; the stamp
was then printed, the engraving covering both the body of the
paper and so much of the tissue paper as appears through the
aperture. From about 1871 to 1875 the stai.p was composed
of but one piece of paper, the use of the tissue paper and the
aperture having been abandoned. In August, 1871, there was
added to the tax-paid stamp'a piece of paper, which was pasted
by its edges upon the back thereof, .as shown in complainant's
Exhibit, Hollister Revenue Stamp. Stamps of the latter character have been in use from August, 1875, to this date.
11On receipt of the tax-paid stamps by the gauger, he proceeds
to affix them to the head of the barrel, together with certain
marks and brands; he, together with the storekeeper, having
first signed the same at the places indicated in complainant'.;
Exhibit, Hollisier Revenue Stamp. The gauger puts this stamp
on the barrel by means of some adhesive material and tacks;
he then cancels it by the use of a stencil-plate, imprinting across
the face of the stamp and extending over each side upon the
head of the barrel waved lines; he also imprints upon the head
with a stencil-plate his name and official designation. The
whole surface of the stamp is then varnished with a transparent
varnish; no varnish can be used which is oily enough to affect
the paste.
"The package is then removed from the warehouse and
passes into the custody of the distiller or owner. •If the owner
desires to purify the contents of the package it is then taken
to the establishment of a duly authorized rectifier of distilled
spirits. The rectifier then notifies the collector of the district
that he desires to dump, for rectification, the contents of certain
specified packages, whereupon the collector directs a gauger to
proceed to the rectifying establishment and gauge the specified
packages. When the packages are gauged the gaugeris required by regulations to cut from the tax-paid stamp a designated portion thereof, and transmit the same to the collector
with a report of his operations. The packages are then dumped

I

.OBER

TERM, 1884.

Opinion of the Court.

into the tubs of the rectifier, and the identity of their contents
lost.
"The portion of the tax-paid stamp detached or cut and forwarded by the gauger, as heretofore described, includes the
serial number of the stamp, the date on which the tax was paid,
and the number of proof gallons; the number-of the cask, the
location of the warehouse, and the person or firm to whom
delivered, and the signature of the collector; the part so cut
out is over the paper back..'
The employment of the paper backing in the stamp used by
the appellant, whereby the part to be cut out is prevented
from adhering to the head of the barrel, and the arrangement
of a part of the stamp so as to identify the package with that
described in the stub, the removal of which destroys the stamp
so that it cannot be used again, constitutes the alleged infringement of the first claim of the Locke patent, which covers-every
stamp within that description.
The counsel for the appellee describes "the Locke stamp as
a combination of three parts: 1st, a part which is designed
to become a stub when the stamp proper is separated therefrom,
and displays a serial number; .2d, a constituent part of the
stamp proper which is designed for permanent attachment to
the barrel; 3d, a constituent part of the stamp proper displaying the same Identifying serial number as the stub, which part,
after the stamp proper has been affixed to the barrel, bears
such, relation to the permanent part, that it can be so removed
therefrom as to retain its own integrity, but mutilates and
thereby cancels the stamp by its removal."
In this combination it will not be questioned that the first
and second elements were well known, and that the third, so
far as its contents are identical with those on the stub, is not
new. The question turns on that feature of the third element
whereby a removable part of the stamp proper, the contents
of which identify the stamp with the stub after the stamp has
been attached, can be so removed as to retain its own integrity, but mutilates and thereby cancels the stamp by its removal.
This is what we ascertain to be the precise idea embodied in

HOLLISTER

i.

BENEDICT MANUFACTURING CO. 71
Opinion of the Court.

the invention described and claimed in the patent, and which,
although we find to be new in the sense that it had not been
anticipated by any previous invention, of which it could therefore be declared to be an infringement, yet is not such an improvement as is entitled to be regarded in the sense of the
patent laws as an invention.
In reaching this conclusion we have allowed its due weight
to the presumption in favor of the validity of the patent arising from the action of*the Patent Office in granting it; and
we have not been unmindful of the fact, abundantly proven,
and indeed not denied, that the adoption of the present taxpaid stamp, in lieu of that previously in use by the Internal
Revenue Bureau, has proven its superior utility in the prevention of frauds upon the revenue. The testimony on that point
of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue from his official reports is quite conclusive. In his report for 1875 he mentions
the adoption of "new regulations in regard to the use of taxpaid stamps, by which a portion of the stamp is cut out at the
time of dumping and returned with the gauger's report," and
says: "This effectually destroys the stamp and prevents its
re-use, while at the same time, a sufficient amount of the engraving is shown upon the slip to determine whether the stamp.
is genuine;" and, in 1876, that official reported that "the -plan
of requiring the return of a portion of the tax-paid § tamps,
whenever a package to which it is attached is dump. ed for
rectification, has been found to be such a vahiable preve ntion
of fraud that it has been extended to include all stamps for
rectified spirits and wholesale liquor dealers' stamps.
"These three varieties of stamps for distilled spirits are now
prepared at a trifling additional cost, with a paper back affixed
to each in such a way that the portiQn of the stamp containing
all the important data can be cut therefrom and filed with the
commissioner or collector, thus furnishing conclusive evidence
of the destruction of the stamp (rendering its re-use impossible), and furnishing also evidence as to the contents of the
package bearing the stamp.
"It is believ l that this system affords the government a
very effectual protection against the perpetration of fraud

OCTOBER TRIiM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

in connection with the collection of the tax on distilled
spirits."
Such an increased utility; beyond what had been attained by
devices previously in use, in cases of doubt, is usually regarded
as determining the question of invention. But in the present
case we are not able to give it such effect.
No change, it will be observed, was. made in the character
of the stamp, so far as the relation between the stamp proper
and the stub is concerned, nor in the identifying marks which
constituted the written and printed matter upon both ; and the
expedient of using a paper backing which prevented the adhesion to the package of the part intended to be detached and
removed, it is manifest would be adopted by any skilled person
having that end in view.
The idea of detaching that portion of the stamp, with the
double effect of destroying the stamp by mutilation and preserving the evidenca of the identity of the package on which
it had been first placed in use, w]'ch is all that remains to
constitute the invention, seems to us not to spring from that
intuitive faculty of the mind put forth in the search for new
results, or new methods, creating what had not before existed,
or bringing to light what lay hidden from vision; but, on the
otlher hand, to be the suggestion of that common exparience,
which arose spontaneously and by a necessity of human reasoning, in the minds of those who had become acquainted with
the circumstances with which they had to deal. Cutting out
a portion of the stamp, as a means of defacing and mutilating
it, so as to prevent a second us8, was matter of common knowledge and practice, before the date of this patent ; and cutting
out a particular portion, on which the identifying marks had
been previously written, or printed, was simply cutting a stub
from the stamp, instead of cutting the stamp from the stub,
as before. So that, when the frequency and magnitade of the
frauds upon the revenue, committed by the removal of taxpaid stamps from packages, on which they had been originally
placed by the officer, to others surreptitiously substituted for
them, or by emptying the packages of their original contents,
and fraudulently refilling them with spirits on which no tax

HESS v. REYNOLDS.
Sy]labus.

had been paid, attracted the general attention of the revenue
department, the answer to the problem of prevention was
found by immediate inference from the existing regulations, in
the adoption of the expedient now in question. As soon as
the mischief became apparent, and the remedy was seriously
and systematically studied by those competent to deal with the
subject, the present regulation was promptly suggested and
adopted, just as a skilled mechanic, witnessing the performance
of a machine, inadequate, by reason of some defect, to accomplish the object for which it had been designed, by the application of his common knowledge and experience, perceives the
reason of the failure, and. supplies what is obviously wanting.
It is but the'display of the expected skill of the calling, and
.involves only the exercise of the ordinary faculties of reasoning
upon the materials supplied by a special knowledge, and the
facility of manipulation which results from its habitual and
intelligent practice; and is in no sense the creative work of
that inventive faculty which it is the purpose of -the Constitution and the patent laws to encourage and reward.
On this ground
M7zdecree of the Circuit Court i'8 ,evered,and thecauge remanded, with directione to enter a decree dimigging the
bill.

HESS v. REYNOLDS, Administrator.
IN

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNID STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAW.
Submitted December 9, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.

A proceeding in a State court against an administrator, to obtain payment of a
debt due by the decedent in his lifetime, is Yemovable into a court of the
United States, when the creditor and the administrator are citizens of different States, notwithstanding the State statute may enact that such claims
can only be established in a Probate Court of the State, or by appeal from
that court to some other State court.
The act of March 8, 1875, to determine the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts

