OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

THORNLEY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF. CLAIMS.
Argued January 13, 1885.-Decided February 2, 1885.

Officers on the Retired List of the Navy are not entitled to longevity pay.

The appellant brought this suit against the United States to
recover a balance due him, as he contended, on his pay as
an officer of the navy. His petition alleged that, on September
1, 1855, he was commissioned a surgeon in the navy; that
on June 1, 1861, while he still held the grade or rank of
surgeon, he was, by order of the Secretary of the Navy, issued
by direction of the President, placed on the retired list, in
accordance with the 'provisions of § 3 of the act of Congress
approved February 21, 1861, 12 Stat. 150, by reason of incapacity for further service at sea, but that for some years
after said retirement he was assigned to and performed active
duty; that by § 3 of the act of Congress approved July 15,
1870, 16 Stat. 333, the sea-pay of an officer on the active list 6f
the navy of the grade or rank held by the appellant at the time
of his retirement was fixed, for the first five years from the date
of commission, at $2,800 per annum; for the second five years
from the date of commission, at $3,200 per annum; for the
third five years from the date of commission, at $3,500 per
annum; for the fourth five years from the date of commission;
at $3,700 per annum; and after twenty years from the date of
commission, at $4,200 per annum.
The petition further alleged that § 1 of the act of ConreFs
approved Mllarch 3, 1873, 17 Stat. 547, fixed the pay of officers
of the navy, who were then or might thereafter be retired on
account of incapacity, resulting from sickness or exposure in
the line of duty, at seventy-five per cent. of the sea-pay of the
grade or rank which they held at the time of their retirement;
that the act of Congress approved April 7, 1882, 22 Stat. 41,
entitled "An Act f6r the relief of Medical Director John
Thornley, United States Navy," the appellant, directed that he
be considered as havihg been retired from active service as a

THORN LEY v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

surgeon and placed on the retired list of officers of tl~e navy,
June 1, 1861, on account of physical incapacity originating in
the line of duty, and that he be paid accordingly.
The petition also referred to § 1 of. the act approved August
5, 1882, 22 Stat. 286, which provided that all officers of the
navy should "be credited with the actual-time they may have
served as officers or enlisted men in the regular or volunteer
army or navy, or both, and receive all the benefits of such actual
service, in all respects, in the same manner as if said service had
been continuous in the regular navy."
The petition further alleged that the appellant, under a
proper construction of said acts, should have received pay since
March 3, 1873, at the following- rates, to wit: from March 3,
1873, to September 1, 1875, $2,775 per annum, or seventy-five
per centum of the sea-pay of a surgeon on his fourth lustrum
from the date of his commission; and from September 1, 1875,
to the time of filing his petition, $3,150 per annum, or seventyfive per centum of the sea-pay of a surgeon after twenty years
from the date of his commission; that such pay had been
wrongfully withheld from him, and he had only been paid since
March 3,1873, at the rate of $2,400 per annum. The petitioner,
therefore, demanded judgment for $6,343.67.
The findings of fact made by the Court of Claims, January
29, 1883, were as follows: "On the 3d of September, 1855, the
petitioner was commissioned a surgeon in the navy. On the
1st of June, 1861, on account of physical incapacity-t6 perform
further service at sea, he was placed on the retired list as a
surgeon, under § 3 of the act of February 21, 1861, 12 Stat.
147, 150. 'From March 3d, 1873, to November 16, 1882, he
was paid at the rate of $2,400 per annum, but the accounting
officers of the treasury have refused to allow him any more
than that amount."
From these facts the court deduced thfe conclusion of law,
that the petitioner was not entitled to recover, and dismissed
his petition. From this judgment the petitioner appealed.
Xr. John PaulJ'ones and MrA.Robert B. Lines for appellant.
Mr. Solwitor-General for appellee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court. Her
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
'It is not seriously contended that § 1 of the act of August
5, 1882, referred to in this petition, has any application to the
case. The controversy arises upon § 3 of the act of July 15,
1870,16 Stat. 321, entitled "An Act making appropriations for
the naval service for the year ending Jane 30, 1871, and for
other purposes," and the second clause of § 1 of the act of
March 3, 1873, entitled "A n Act making appropriations for
the naval service for the year ending June 30, 1874, and for
other purposes," 17 Stat. 547. These sections have been reproduced in the Revised Statutes, and read as follows, respectively :
"SEc. 1556. The commissioned officers and warrant officers
on the active list of the navy of the United States, and the
petty officers, seamen, ordinary seamen, firemen, coal-heavers,
and employds in the navy shal, be entitled to receive annual
pay at the rates herein stated, after their respective designations: The admiral, thirteen thousand dollars;
surgeons, paymasters and chief engineers, who have the same
rank with paymasters during the first five years after date of
commission, when at sea, two thousand eight hundred dollars;
on-shore duty, two thousand four hundred dollars; on leave or
waiting orders, two thousand dollars; during the second five
years after such date, when at sea, three thousand two hundred'
dollars; on shore duty, two thousand eight hundred dollars;
on leave or waiting orders, two thousand four hundred dollars;
during the third five years after such date, when at sea, three
thousand five hundred dollars; on shore duty, three thousand
two hundred dollars; on leave or waiting orders, two thousand
six hundred dollars; during the fourth five years after such
date, when at sea, three thousand seven hundred dollars; on
shore duty, three thousand six hundred dollars; on leave or
waiting orders, two thousand eight hundred dollars; after
twenty years from such date, when at sea, four thousand two
hundred dollars; on shore duty, four thousand dollars; on leave
or waiting orders, three thousand dQllars.

THORNLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

"SEc. 1588. The pay of all officers of the navy who have
been retired after forty-five years' service after reaching the
age of sixteen years, or who have been or may be retired after
forty years' service, upon their own application to the President,
or on attaining the age of sixty-two years, or on account of incapacity resulting from long and faithful service, from wounds
or injuries received in the line of duty, or from sickness or exposure therein, shall, when not on active duty, be equal to
seventy-five per centum of the sea-pay provided by this chapter
for the grade or rank which they held, respectively, at the time
of their retirement. The pay of all other officers on the retired
list shall, when not on active duty, be equal to one-half the
sea-pay provided by this chapter for the grade or rank held by
them, respectively, at the time of their retirement."
§ 1 of the act of March 3, 1873, upon which § 1588 is
based, also provided that no officer on the retired list of the
navy should be qmployed on active duty except in time of
war. This provision is now reproduced in § 1462 Revised
Statutes.
The contention of the appellant is that upon these enactments he is entitled to what is known as "longevity pay."
The contention of the United States is that longevity pay is
only given to officers on the active list of the navy, and
not to retired officers, to which latter class the appellant
belongs.
Where the meaning of a statute is plain it is the duty of the
courts to enforce it according to its obvious terms. In such a
case there is no necessity for construction. Benton v. Wickwire,
54 N. Y. 226; Toodbury v. Berry, IS Ohio St. 456; Bosley v.
.Xattingly, 14 B. Mon. 89 ; Ezekiel v. Dixoni 3 Georgia, 146;
FarrelFoundry v. Dart, 26 Conn. 376 ; SussexaPeerage Case,
11 C1. & Fin. 85, 143; Bishop on the Written laws, § 72.
Applying this rule, wo are of opinion that the case of the
appellant finds no support in any act of Congress.
The effect of the act for the relief of the appellant referred.
to in his petition was simply to allow him the rate of pay of
the grade in which he was retired, prescribed by § 1588 of the
Revised Statutes, for officers retired on. account of incapacity

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

resulting from long and faithful service, from wounds or injuries
received in the line of duty, or from sickness or exposure therein.
It placed him on the same footing in respect of his pay, and
no other, as § 1588 placed the retired officers therein mentioned.
There have been but three acts of Congress giving longevity
pay to officers of the navy. The first was the act of March 3,
1835, 4 Stat. 755, by which longevity pay was given to surgeons only. At that time retired officers were unknown to the
navy. The second was the act of June 1, 1860, 12 Stat. 23,
which gave it to commanders, lieutenants, surgeons, engineers,
pursers, boatswains, gunners, carpenters and sailmakers, when
on duty at sea; and the third was the act of July 15, 1870,
which gave it generally to officers on the active list of the'
navy, including surgeons.
By no act, therefore, since the foundation of the government,
has Congress ever given longevity pay to officers of the navy,
except those on duty at sea, or on the active list of the navy;
and the statute book is now bare of any enactment which
awards to any officer of the navy, not on the actiye list, any
increase of pay for length of service.
The appellant seeks to find a reversal of this persistent policy
of Congress, in respect to .the pay of naval officers, in the expression found in § 1588 of the Revised Statutes, to wit, that
"the pay of all officers of the navy, who have been retired,
shall, when not on active duty, be equal to seventyfive per centum of the sea-pay provided by this chapter for
the grade or rank which they held respectively at the time of
their retirement." The contention is that by these words Congress intended to give, in this roundabout and indirect manner,
longevity pay to the. retired officers, which, when dealing
directly with the subject, it had uniformly refused to give
them. To our minds the section will bear no such construction.
Its plain meaning is that the pay of a retired officer shall be
three-fourths of the sea-pay to which he was entitled when he
was retired. It is contended that, because Congress graduated
the pay of officers on the active list by the length of their time
of service, officers not on the active list are entitled to the same

THORNLEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

increase. But the contrary is the true construction. By omitting retired officers from the class entitled to longevity pay,
Congress expressed its purpose not to allow them longevity
pay. No other construction can be put upon the law without
importing into it words which Congress has left out, namely,
that besides the pay to which his grade or rank at the date of
his retirement entitled him, the retired officer should also receive, for every period of five years after his retirement, the
increased pay allowed officers on the active fist. To give the
statute this meaning would be legislation and not interpretation.
The case of United Statme v. Tyler, 105.U. S. 244, relied on
by appellant, brings no support to his suit. The statute allowing longevity pay to officers of the army, § 1262 Rev. Stat.,
declared that there should be allowed and paid to all officers
below the rank of brigadier-general ten per cet. of their current yearly pay for every term of five years' service, but it did
not restrict the increased pay to officers in active service. The
point on vhich the case turned was the decision of the court,
that an officer of the army, though retired, was still in the service; and he was included in the very terms of the statute
allowing the increased pay. The statute on which the appellant
relies excludes him by its terms from its benefits.
We are not called on to explain why Congress should apply
one rule to the officers of the army and another to the officers
of the navy. It is sufficient to say that it has clearly done so.
If the law is unequal and unjust, the remedy is with Congress
and not with the courts.
Judgment aflrmed.

