M

EX PARTE FISK.
Syllabus.

way in which the company can be charged on thig account.
The tax is not on the interest as it accrues, but when it is paid.
No provision is made for airorata distribution of the burden
over the time the .interest is accumulating, and as the tax can
only be levied for and during the year 1871, we think, if the

interest is in good faith not payable in that year, the tax is not
demandable, either in whole or in part."
This decision covers the present case. The claim of the
United States is not for a tax on dividends or gains, but is distinctly for a tax on interest accruing on the bonds -of the railroad company, and.which was not payable nor paid until after
the year 1871, for and during which the act directed it to be
levied and colected. We do not perceive that the liability of
the corporation for tax on this interest, as such, is affected by
the circumstance that the interest was paid out of the earnings

made in the previous year.
Jucftrwnt.Affli,7d.

Ex paxte FISK.
ORIGINAL.
Argued January 6.1885.-Decided March 2,18B.
The principle that in actions at law the laws of the States shall be regarded as
rules of decision in the courts of the United States, § 721 Rev. Stat., and
that the prac'tice, pleadings, and forms and modes of,proceedings in such
cases shalU conform as near as may-be to those of the courts of the States
in which the courts sit, § 914, is applicable only where there is no rule -on
the same subject prescribed by act of Congress, and where the State-rule is
not in conflict with any such law.
The statute of New York, which permits a party iba suit to be examined by
his adversary as a witness at any time previous to the trial in an action at
law, is in conflict with the provision of the Revised Statutes of the United
States which enacts that "The mode of proof in the trial of actions at common law shall be by oral testimony and examination of witnesses in -pen
cour except as hbereinafter provided." § 861.
None of the exceptions afterwards found in §§ 868, 866 and 867 provide for
such examination of a party to the suit in advance of the trial as the statute
.of-New York pezmits.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
The courts of the Uited States sitting in New York have no power, therefore,
to compel a party to submit to such an examination, and no power to punish
him for a refusal to do so.
Nor can the United States court enforce such an order made by a State court
before the removal of the case into the Circuit Court of the United States.
Where a person is in custody, under an order of the Circuit Court, for contempt
in refusing to answer under such an order, this court will release him by
writ of habeas corpus on the grouud that the order of imprisonment was
without the jurisdiction of that court.

This was an application on the part of Clinton B. Fisk for a
writ of habeas corpus, to be directed to the marshal of the
Southern District of New York, in whose custody the petitioner
was held under an order of the Circuit Court for that district.
The history of the case which resulted in this order, so
far as it is necessary to the decision of the matter, may be
briefly stated as follows:
Francis B. Fogg brought suit in'the Supreme Court of the
State of New York against Fisk to recover the sum of $63,250,
on the allegation of false and fraudulent representations made
by Fisk in the sale of certain mining stocks.
In the progress of the suit, and before the trial, the plaintiff
obtained from the court the following order:
"Ordered, that the defendant, Clinton B. Fisk, be examined
and his testimony and deposition taken as a party before trial,
pursuant to sections 870, 871, 872, 873, &c., of the Code of
Civil Procedure, and that for such purpose he personally be
and attend before the undersigned, a justice of this court, at
the chambers thereof, to be held in the new county court-house,
in the said city of New York, on the 31st day of January,
1883, at 11 o'clock in the forenoon of that day." A motion
to vacate this order was overrdled and the judgment finally
affirmed by the Court pf Appeals.
Thereupon the defendant appeared before the court and sub' mitted to a partial examination, answering some questions and
objecting to others;.until, pending one of the adjournments of
the examination, he procured an order remoVing the case to
the Circuit Court of the United States.
In that court an order was made to continue the examination
Ibefore a master,,to whom the matter was referred. The de-

EX PARTE FISK.
Argument against the Petition.

fendant refusing to be sworn and declining to be examined, he
was brought before the Circuit Court on an application for
attachment for a contempt in refusing to obey the order.
Without disposing of this motion, the Circuit Court made
another order, to wit:
"It is hereby ordered and adjudged that the motion to
punish the said defendant for such contempt stand adjourned
to the next motion day of this court, to wit, on the 28th day of
March, 1884.
"It is further ordered, that the defendant, Clinton B. Fisk,
be and he is hereby directed and required to attend personally
on the 14th day of March, 1884, before the Honorable Addison
Brown, one of the judges of this court, at a stated term thereof,
at his charnbers in the post-office building, in said city of New
Y6rk, at eleven o'clock in the foren6on of that day; then and
there, and on such other days as may be designated, to be examined and his testimony and deposition taken and continued
as a party before trial, pursuant to section 870 et seq., of the
Code of Civil Procedure, and for the purposes mentioned in
said order of January 12, 1883, and February 12, 1884, heretofore made in this action."
The defendant appeared before the court in pursuance of this
order, and, stating that he was advised by counsel that the
court had no jurisdiction to require him to answer in this manner to the questions propounded to him by the counsel for
plaintiff, he refused to do s&
For this, on further proceeding, he was held by' the court to
be in contempt, and fined $500, and committed to the custody
of the marshal until it was paid.
It was to be relieved of this imprisonment that he prayed
here the writ-of habeas corpus.
Afr.

Vwller1H. Peckham for petitioner.

. r. John- .R. Dos Pa8sos opposing.-I. A writ of habeas
corpus cannot be issued to review the proceedings of the Circuit Court. That court had jurisdiction over the person and
subject matter, and had p6wer to punish for contempt. R ev.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument agaist the Petition.

Stat. § 725. When a court commits a party for contempt, the
adjudication is a conviction, and the commitment, in .consequence, is execution. .Rx parte Kearney, 7 Wheat. 38. This
court can take cognizance of such a case only upon a certificate of
division of opinion. New Orleamnv.Steam8hip Co.,720 Wall. 387;
JJyes v. Fischer, 102 U. S. 121. See also Williamwo &'.Ca e,
26 Penn. St. 924. If the Circuit Court had refused the motion
to compel defendant to submit to examination, no writ of error
or appeal would lie. The writ now applied for, if granted,
will be an exercise of appellate jurisdiction from an interlocutory decree of a Circuit Court. The proceeding to examine
the petitioner is a right given by the New York Code. If,
when taken, the deposition is offered in evidence, then objections can be made and exceptions taken, and the question can
be examined on writ of error, Rev. Stat. § 691 ; Sawin v. Jenny,
93 U. S. 289, or it may be raised upon a certificate of division.
On petition for habeas corpus a court will not review questions
which can be properly heard on appeal or by writ of error.
Hayes v. Fischer, 102 U. S. 121." The only case in which this
court has reviewed, by writ of habeas corpus, proceedings of'.
the Circuit Court committing a party for contempt, is Epiparte
Riowland, 104 U. S. 604. The court placed its -decision uponExparte Lange, 18 Wall. 163; .E partePark8,93 U. S. 18;
EoarteTirginia,100 U. S. 339; and Erxpatte Sieboll 100
.J
U. S. 371. None of these were commitments for contempt:
In the first in was held that the court was fundue oficio when it
undertook to impose sentence on the petitioner; in tie second,
the court refused the Writ because the court in which the in,dictment was pending had jurisdiction to detefmine whether
the act charged in the indictment was acrime; and in the
third and fourth the court denied thewrit on the ground that
the act complained of was .coustitutioial. In this case the
petitionet deliberately put himself in ,conteyipi, -in order to
raise the question of .the pover of the courtto commit-forit.
-Ii.' The Circuit Court had jurisdiction to make the order in
question, requiring, defendant to-submit to an examination as a
party before trialt This power can be upheld under two distinct statutes: lst; the act of June, 1872, § -914 Re, Stat.,

EX PARTE FISK.
Argpmnent against the Petition.

which provides that "the practice, pleadings, and forms and
modes of proceeding in civil causes, other than equity and admiralty causes, in the Circuit and District Courts, shall conform,
as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings and forms and
modes of proceeding existing at the time in like causes in the
courts of record of the State within which such Circuit or Dis-.
trict Courts are held, any rule of court to the contrary notwithstanding;" or 2d, under the act of March 3, 1875, § 4,18
Stat. 471, which provides, "that when any suit shall be removed from a State court to the Circuit Court of the United
States.
. all injunctions, orders and other proceedings
had in such suit prior to its removal shall remain in full force
and effect until dissolved or modified by the court to which
such suit shall be removed." The examination of a party under
the Code of New York, either for the purpose of enabling a
party to frame a complaint, Eenney v. Stedweil, .f4 N. Y. i20,
or for the prosecution or defence of the action, Fogg v.
Fi k, 93, N. Y. 562, is a substitute for the old Chancery
bill of discovery. The evidence so taken may or may not be
used on the trial. The practice is in no wise in conflict with
the statutes of the United States. The object of § 861 Rev.
Stat. is to provide a-mode of proof on the trial of an action;
but it does not refer to this proceeding, in the nature of discovery, conducted in accordance with the practice prevailing in
New York. See Mr. Justice Miller's opinion in Flint v. Clrawford County, 5 Dillon, 481. The act of March 3,1875, § 4,
provides that all orders made in the suit prior to removal shall
stand. The order to take the petitioner's testimony was made
before removal. This order is by the act made to stand, and
even if the evidence cannotbe used on the trial of this action,
as a deposition, it can be used in other suits; and even in this
it can be used as a declaration of the party. The transfer of
a suit from a State court does not vacate what has been done
there. The Circuit Court takes it up where the State courtleftit.
Dunoan v. Gegan, 101 U. S. 810; Akerly v. V*aB, 3 Bissell,
332; William8 M3fower Co. v. Raynor, 7 Bissell, 245; -BRiI v.
-New OrZean, St. Louig & Ckicago Railroad Co., 13 Blatchford,
227; Werte.n.v. ContinentalRailway & Trust Co., °20 Blatch-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ford, 508; Harrigson Wire Co. v. WVweler, 11 Fed. Rep. 206;
Sonstlby v. Keeley, 11 Fed. Rep. 578. We do not know an instance where a case has been removed from a State to a federal
court, in which orders made previous to its removal have not
been carried out and maintained.

Mr.

TusTicE MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court. He

stated the facts as above recited, and continued:
The jurisdiction of this court is always challenged in cases
of this general character, and often successfully. There ca be
no doubt of the proposition, that the exercise of the power of
punishment for contempt of their orders, by courts of general
jurisdiction, is not subject to review by writ of error, or appeal
to this court. Nor is there, in the system of federal jurisprudence, any relief against such orders, when the court has authority to make them, except through the court making the
order, or possibly by the exercise of the pardoning power.
This principle has been uniformly held to be necessary to
the protection of the court from insults and oppressions while
in the ordinary exercise of its duties, and to enable it to enforce its judgments, and orders necessary to the due administration of law, and the protection of the rights of suitors.
When, however, a court of the United States undertakes, by
its process of contempt, to punish a man for refusing to comply with an order which that court had no authority to make,
the order itself, being without jurisdiction, is void, and the
order punishing for the contempt is equally void. It is well
settled now, in the jurisprudence of this court, that when the
proceeding for contempt in such a case results in imprisonment,
this court will, by its writ of habeas corpus, discharge the
prisoner. It follows, necessarily, that on a suggestion by the
prisoner, that, for the reason mentioned, the order under which
he is held is void, this court will, in the language of the statute, make "inquiry into the causp of the restraint of liberty."
§ 152 Rev. Stat.
That the case as made by the petitioner comes, for the purposes of.this inquiry, within the jurisdiction of this court, under
the principles above mentioned is established by the analogous

EX PARTE FISK.
Opinion of the Court.

cases : x'
a rte Rowland, 104 U. S. 604; Ex parte Lange, 18
Wall. 163.
But did the court transcend its jurisdiction in fining the
petitioner for contempt? Or rather, did it have the power to
make the order requiring him to submit to the preliminary examination? For, if it had that power, it clearly could enforce
obedience to the order by fine and imprisonment, if necessary.
The record of the entire proceeding in this branch of the case,
both in the State court and the Circuit Court, is before us, and
we~are thus enabled to form an intelligent opinion on the question presented.
The power of the court to continu( the examinationi of the
defendant, after the removal of the case into the court of the
United States, is asserted on two grounds:
1. That the order for his examination, having been made by,
the Supreme Court of New Yorl under its rightful jurisdiction, while the case -was pending in it, is still a valid order
partially executed, which accompanies the case into the Circuit
Court; and that in that court it cannot be reconsidered, but
must be enforced.
2. That if this be not a sound proposition, the Circuit Court
made an independent order of its own for the examination of
the defendant, which order is justified by the principle that the
Code of Civil Procedure of New York, under which both
orders were mado, is a part of the law governing the courts of
the United States sitting within that State.
We will inquire into the latte' proposition first, for the points
to be considered in it lie at the foundation of the other also.
The general doctrine that remedies, whose foundations are
statutes of the State, are binding upon the courts of the United
States within its limits, is undoubted. This well-known rule of
the federal courts, founded on the act of 1789,1 Stat. 92 ; Rev.
Stat. § 721, that the laws of the several States, except when
the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States
otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law, was enlarged in 1872 by the
provision found in § 914 of the Revision. This enacts that "the
practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of proceeding in civil

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

causes, other than, equity and admiralty causes, in the circuit
and district courts, shall conform, as near as may be, to the
practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding existing
at the time in like causes in the courts of record of the State
within which such circuit or district courts are held, anything
in the rules of court to the contrary notwithstanding."
In addition to this, it has been often decided in this court
that in actions at law in the courts of the Mnited States, the
rules of evidence and the law of evidence generally of the
States prevail in those courts.
The matter in question here occurred in the court below in
regard to a common-law action. It was in regard to a method
of procuring and using evidence, and it was a proceeding in a
civil cause other than equity or admiralty.
We entertain no doubt of the decision of the Court of Appeals of New York, that it was h proceeding authorized by the
statutes of New York, under which, in a New York court, d&fendant was bound to answer.
The case, as thus stated, is a strong one for the efiforcement
of this law in the courts of the United States. Ewjar Boyd,
105 U. S.6417.
But the act of 1789, which made the laws of the States rules
of decision, made an exception when it was " otherwise provided
by the Constitution, treaties, or statutes of the United States."
The actof 1872 evidently contemplates the same exception
by requiring the courts to conform to State practice as near a8
may be. No doubt it would b6 implied, as to any act of Congress adopting State practice in general terms, that it should
not be inconsistent with any express statute of the United
States on the same subject.
There are numerous acts of Congress prescribing modes of
procedure in the Circuit and District Courts of the United
States at variance with laws of the States in which the courts
are held. Among these are the modes of empanelling jurors,
their qualifications, the number of challenges allowed to each
party. Two chapters of the Revised Statutes, XVII. and
XVIII., embracing § 858 to 1042, inclusive, are devoted to
the subjects of evidence and procedure alone.

EX PARTE FISK.
Opinion of the Court

The case oefore us is eminently one of evidence and proced
ure. The object of the orders*is to procure evidence to be
used on the trial of the case, and this object is effected by a
proceeding peculiar to the courts of New York, resting alone
on a statute of that State. There can be no doubt that if the
proceeding here authorized is in conflict with any law 'of the
United States, it is of no force in the courts of the United
States. We think it may be added further in the same direction, that if Congress has legislated on this subject and prescribed a definite rle for the government of its own .cothrts, it
is to that extent exclusive of any leisation of the Siktes in
the same matter.

A striking illustration of this effect of an act of Congress in
prescribing rules of evidence is to be found in § 868 of the Revised Statutes, originally enacted in an appropriation bill in
1864fand the amendment to it passed in 1865.
. It now reads: "In the courts of the United States no witness
shall be excluded M'any action on account of color, or in any
civil action because he is a party to or interested in the issue
tried: Provided,That in actions by or against executors, administrators, or guardians, in which judgment may be rendered
for or against them, neither party shall be allowed to testify
against the other, as to any transaction with, or statement by,
the testitor, intestate, or ward, unless called to testify thereto
by the opposite party, or required to testify thereto by the
court."
This act of Congress, when passed, made competent witnesses
inthe courts of the United States many millions of colored
persons -who were not competent by the laws of the States
in which they lived, and probably as many more' persons,
as.partiesto suits, or interested in the issues to, be tried, who
were excluded by the laws of the States. It has never been
doubted that this statute is valid in all the courts of the United
States, not only as to the. introduction of persons of color and
parties to suits; but, in the qualification made by the proviso
where its language differs from provisions somewhat similar in
State statutes, the act of Congress, critically construed, has
always been held t6 govern the court. .tonogahea Bank v.
voL. cxm--46

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour.

Jacobu, 109 U. S. 275; Potterv. The Ban,'102 U. S. 163;
Page v. Burnstine, 102 U. S. 664; Zing v. Vorthington, 104
U. S. 44.
Coming to consider whether Congress has enacted any laws
bearing on the question before us, we find the following sections
of the Revised Statutes, in chapter XVIL,on evidence, which
we here group together:
"SEc. 861. The mode of proof, in the trial of actions at common law, shall be by oral testimony and examination of witnesses in open court, except as hereinafter provided."
"SEo. 863. The testimony of any witness may be taken in
aiiy civil cause depending in a district or circuit court, by deposition de bene esee, when the witness lives at a greater distance
from the place of trial than one hundred miles, or is bound on
a voyage to sea, or is about to go out of the United States, or
out of the district in which the case is to be tried, and to a
greater distance than one hundred miles from the place of trial,
before the time of trial, or when he is ancient or infirm." The
remainder of this section, and § 864 and 865, are directory as to the officer before whom the deposition may be t-ken,
the notice to the opposite party, and the manner of taking, testifying and returning the deposition to the court.
"SEc. 866. In any case where it is necessary, in order to prevent a failure or delay -of justice, any of the courts of the
United States may grant a dedimus potestatem to take
depositions according to common usage; and any circuit court,
upon application to it as a court of equity, may, according to
the usages of chancery, direct depositions to be taken in er.petuam rei memoriam., if they r.ate to any matters that may
be cognizable in any court of the United States."
§ 867 authorizes the courts of the United States, in their
discretion, and according to the practice in the State courts,
to admit evidence so taken; and §§ 868, 869 and 870 prescribe the manner of taking such depositions, and of the use of
the subpoena duces tecum, and how it may be obtained.
No one can examine these provisions for procuring testimony
to be used in the courts of the United States and have any
reasonable doubt that, so far as they apply, they were intended

EX PARTE FISK.
Opinion of the Court.

to provide a system to govern the practice, in that respect, in
those courts. They are, in the first place, too cmplete, too
far-reaching, and too minute to admit of any other conclusion.
But we have not only this inference from the character'of the
legislation, but it is enforced by the express language of the
law in providing a defined mode of proof in those courts, and
in specifying the only exceptions to that mode which shall be
admitted.
This mode is "by oral testimony and examination of witnesses in open court, except as hereinafter provided."
Of course the mode of producing testimony under the New
York Code, which was applied to petitioner, is not oral testimony and examination of a witness in open court, within the
meaning of tl~is act of Congress. This obviously means the
production of the witness before the court at the time of the
trial, and his oral examination then; and it does not mean
proof by reading depositions, though those depositions may
have been taken before a judge of the court, or even in open
court, at some other time than during the trial. They would
not, in such case, be oral testimony. The exceptions to this
section, which all relate to depositions, also show that proof
by deposition cannot be within the rule, but belongs exclusively
to the exceptions.
We come now to inquire if the testimony sought to be obtained from petitioner by this mode comes within the exception referred to in § 861. These exceptions relate to cases
where it is admissible to take depositions de bene esse under
§ 863, or in perpetuam rei memoriam and under a dedimus
12otestafem under § 866.
In the first of these, the circumstances which authorize depositions to be taken in advance for use on the trial are mentioned with great particularity. They all have relation to
conditions of the witness; to residence more than a hundred
miles from the court, or bound on a sea voyage, or as going
out of the United States or out of the district, or more than a
hundred miles from the place of trial before the time of trial,
or an ancient or infirm witness.
None of these things are suggested in regard to petitioner,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

nor were they thought. of as a foundation of the order of the
State court or of the Circuit Court. The statute of New York,
under which both courts acted, makes no such requirements as
a condition to the examination of the party. It is a right
which, if the judge may possibly refuse to grant, he is in that
matter governed by none of the conditions on which the deposition may be taken under-the act of Congress.
Nor does the case come within the principle or profess to be
grounded on the -power conferi~d by § 866, which is another
exception to the rule established by § 861. It is not according
to common usage to call p party in advance of the trial at law,
and subject him to all the. skill of opposing counsel to extract
something which he "may then use or not, as it suits his purpose. This is a very 8pecWl usage, dependent wholly upon the
New York statute.
Nor is it in any manner made to appear that this examination "was necessary in order to prevent a delay or failure of
justice in any of the courts of the United States," nor is any
such proposition the foundation of the court's action.
These are the exceptions which the statute provides to its
positive rule that the, mode of trial in actions at law shall be
by oral testimony and examination of witnesses in open court.
They are the only exceptions thereinafter provided. Does the
rule admit of others? -Can its language be so construed_
On the contrary, its purpose is clear to provide a mode of
proof in trials at law to the exclusion of all other modes of
proof; and because the rigidity of the rule may, in some bases,
work a hardship, it makes exceptions of such cases as it recognizes to be entitled to another rule, and it provides that rule
for those case. Under one or the other all case, must come.
Every action. at law in a court of the United States must be
governed by the rule, or by the exceptions which the statute
provides. There is no place for exceptions mad6 by State
statutes. The court is not at liberty to adopt them, or to require a party to conform to them. It has no power to subject
a party to such an examination as this. Not only is no such
power conferred, but it is prohibited by the plain language and
the equally plain purpose of the acts of Congress, and espe-

EX PARTE FISK,
Opinion of the Court.

cially the chapter on Evidence of the Revision. The New York
statute would, if in force, repeal or supersede the act of Congress.
It does not require much deliberation to see, that if the acts
of Congress forbid the use of this kind of testimony in the
courts of the United States, no order for taking it made in the
State court while the case was pending in that court, with a
view to its use on a trial there, can change the law of evidence in.
the Federal court. Without deciding now, for the question is
not before us, whether the testimony actually given under that
order and transmitted with the record of the case to the Circuit Court, can'be used when the trial takes place, we are well
satisfied that the latter court cannot enforce the unexecuted
order of the State court to procure evidence which, by the act
of Congress, is forbidden to be introduced on the trial, if - it
should be so taken.
The provision of § 4 of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat.
470, declares orders of the State court, in a case afterwards
removed, to be in force until dissolved or modified by the Circuit Court. This fully recognizes the power of the latter court
over such okders. And it was not intended to enact that an
order made in the State court, which affected or might affect
the 'mode of trial yet to be had, could change or modify the
express directions of an act of Congress on that subject.
Nor does the language of the court in Duncan v. Gegam, 101
U. S.810, go so far. When it is 'there said that "the Circuit'
Court has no more power over what was done before the removal
than the State court would have had if the suit had remained,"
it is in effect affirmed that it has at least that much power.
There can be no doubt that on a proper showing before the
State court it could have discharged the order for this examination or suspended its further execution. In acting on such a
motion as this it would have been governed by the laws of the
State of New York. In deciding whether it would continue
the execution of this order or decline to execute it further, the
Circuit Court was governed by the federal law. If the law
governing the Circuit Cqurt gave it no power to make or continue this examination, but in fact forbade it, then it could not
enforce the order.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The petitioner having removed his case into the Circuit
Court has a right to have its further progress governed by the
law of the latter court, and not by that of the court from
which it was removed; and if one of the advantages of this
removal was an escape from this examination, he has a right to.
that benefit if his case was rightfully removed.
This precise point is decided, and in regard to this very
question of the differing rules of evidence prevailing in the
State and Federal courts, in Zing v. WVorthlngton, 104 U.
S.44.
* In that case, after it had been once heard on appeal in the
Supreme Court of Illinois, it was removed into the Circuit
Court of the United States.
The Supreme Court had reversed the judoment of the inferior
court, because, among other things, the evidence of witnesses
had been received whom that court held to be incompetent.
On the trial in the Circuit Court they were held to be competent and admitted to testify, notwithstanding the decision of
the Supreme Court of the State,,on the ground that § 858"bf
the Revised Statutes of the United States, already copied in
this opinion, made them competent, and; although it differed
in that respect from the statute of Illinois on the same subject,
it must prevail in the Circuit Court.
It was strongly urged here that this was error, and as to
that case the decision of the Illinois court, made while it was
rightfully before it, should control. But this court held otherwise, and said: "The Federal Court was bound to deal with
the case according to the rules of practice and evidence prescribed by the acts of Congress. If the case is properly rfmovel the party removing it is entitled to any advantage
which the practice and jurisprudence of the Federed Court
give him."
The Circuit Court was, therefore, without authority to make
the orders for the examination of petitioner in this case, and
equally without authority to enforce these orders by process,
for contempt. Its order fining him for contempt and committing him to the custody of the marshal was without jurisdiction and void, and the prisoner is entitled to his release.

COOPER MANUFACTURING CO. v. FERGUSON.

727

Syllabus.
It is supposed that the announcement of the judgment of the
court that he is entitled to the writ will render its issue unnecessary. If it shall prove otherwise,

lhe w24t will be is8ued on af

$cation to the clerk.

COOPER MANUFACTURING COMPANTY v. FPRGUSON & Another.
YT' ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THR
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued October 23, 1884.-Decided March 16. 1885. -

The right of a State to prescribe the terms 'upon which a foreign corporation
shall carry on its business in a State has been settled by this court.

A State act which imposes limitations upon the power of a corporation, created
under the laws of another State, to make contracts within the State for carrying on commerce between the States, violates that clause of the Constitution which confers upon Congress the exclusive right to regulate that com-

merce.
A corporation organized under the laws of one State does not, by doing a single
act of business in another State, with no purpose of doing any other acts
there, come within the provisions of a statute of the latter forbidding foreign
corporations to carry on business within it, except upon filing certificates
showing their place or places of business, their agents, and other matters
required by the statute.
The Constitution of Colorado provided that no foreign corporation should do
any business within the State without having one or more known places of
business, and an authorized ageut or agents in the same upon whom process
might be served. The legislature of the State enacted that foreign corporations, before being autliorized to do business in the State, should file a
certificate with the Secretary of State, and the recorder of the county in
which the principal business was carried on, designating the principal place
of business and the agent there on whom process might be served. A corporation of Ohio, without filing a certificate, contracted in Colorado to
manufacture machinery at its place of business in Ohio, and to deliver it in
Ohio. Held, that this act did not constitute a carrying on of business in
Colorado, and was not forbidden by its Constitution and law.
An act, in execution of a constitutional power, passed by the first legislature
after the adoption of the" Constitution, is a cotemporary interpretation of
the latter, entitled to much weight.

