HARVEY v. UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

HARVEY & Another v. UNITED STATES.'
UNITED STATES v. HARVEY & Another.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS6
Argued January 18, 14, 1885.-Decided February 2, 1885.

In this case, before reported in 8 C. CL 501, 12 Id. 141, 13 Id. 322, and 105
U. S. 671, the. Court of Claims, 18 C. Cl. 470, awarded to the claimants
$16,250.95, for labor done and materials furnished by them in constructing
coffer-dams, and in performing the work necessarily connected therewith,
and preliminary to the mason work for the piers and abutments referred to
in the contract. That court proceeded on the view that the claimants had
no right to rely on the testimony of experts introduced by them, as to the
value of the work, but should have kept and produced accounts of its cost
and expense ; but it gave to the claimants the benefit of the testimony of
experts introduced-by the United States, as to such value, in awarding the
above amount: Held, That the claimants could not be deprived of reasonable compensation for their work because they did not produce evidence of
the character referred to, when it did not appear that such evidence existed, if the evidence they produced was the best evidence accessible to
them, and it enabled the court to arrive at a proper conclusion.
On evidence thus rejected by the Court of Claims, this court awarded to the
claimants, for the above-named work, $40,093.77.
The Court of Claims having awarded nothing to the claimants for loss and
damage from the reduction by the United States of the dimensions of piers
and abutments, made subsequently to'the making of the contract for doing
the mason work thereof, on the view that it had before made an allowance
for such loss and damage, this court, being of a different opinion, allowed
$4,574.80 therefor.
Under ยง 1091 of the Revised Statutes, and the ruling in RIM=son v. United
tate#, 100 U. S. 43, interest cannot be allowed on the recovery, and there
is nothing in the special act of August 14, 1876, ch. 279, 19 Stat. 490,
which authorizes the allowance of interest.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.Yr. Enoch Totten for Harvey & Livesey.
frr. A88i8tant Attone-General
States.

faury for the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was before this court at October Term, 1881, and
is reported as Harvey v. United States, 105 U. S. 671. The history of it is there fully -given, and, in connection with the
reports of it in 8 C. C1. 501, 12 Id. 141, and 13 Id. 322, what
occurred in it prior to the decision of this court can be fully
understood. The Court of Claims had dismissed the petition
of the claimants, filed August 30, 1876, under the special act of
Congress passed August 14, 1876, ch. 279, 19 Stat. 490. This
dismissal involved the rejection of two items sued for in such
petition: (1) Labor done, and materials furnished, by the
claimants in constructing the coffer-dams, and in perforining
the work necessarily connected therewith, and preliminary to
the masonry work for the piers and abutments, $75,000 ; (2)
Loss and damages resulting to the claimants in consequence of
the reduction of the dimensions of the piers and abutments,
made subsequently to the making of the contract,, $33,600.
The decision of the Court of Claims in regard to item (1) was,
that the.claimahts had not shown that the written contract did
not express the intent of both parties as to the coffer-dams, and
that, even if that court were satisfied that the claimants executed the contract in mistake of their rights, there was no evidence that the defendants shared the mistake. Its decision in
regard to item (2) wasi that it would be disposed to regard the
case, on the facts, as one for equitable interposition, for the
purpose of further inquiry, and the ascertainment of the rights
of the parties in equity, if it had jurisdiction, but that the statute
did not authorize it to entertain those considerations, because,
in the proceedings before it, it could hear and determine only
claims for labor done and materials furnished by the claimants
under their contract with the defendants.
This court held that the ruling of the Court of Claims in regard to item (1)-the coffer-dams-was erroneous, and that, by
the actual contract between the parties, the claimants were not
to do any. of the work covered by the claim made by them
under item (1), and that the written contract must be reformed
accordingly.
As to item (2), this court held, that the Court of Claims had
Mr-. JusTIcE BLATCHFOBD

HARVEY v. UJNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

placed too limited a construction upon the special act of Congress, and that its power, under that act, extended to reforming
the contract in respect to permitting the officers of the United
States to materially vary the plans for the piers, so as to essentially change the obligations of the parties.
The decree of the Court of Claims was reversed, and
the cause was remanded, with directions to proceed in it
according to law and in conformity with the*opinion of this
court.
The Court of Claims, 18 C. C1. 470, proceeded to determine what the claimants did in constructing coffer-dams, and
in pumping the water from the space enclosed in them, and in
excavations for the preparation of the beds for the masonry.
It held, that, as the claimants had been notified, at the outset,
that the defendants expected them to do such work, and had, on
their part, notified the defendants that they would do it and
would hold the defendants liable for the cost and expense, it
was their duty to keep and produce accurate accounts thereof,
and they could not prove such cost and expense by the evidence
of experts as to the value. But the court gave to them the
benefit of the testimony of experts introduced by the defendants,
and, on that testimony, awarded to the claimants $16,250.95,
for the labor done and materials furnished by them in constructing coifer-dams, and in performing the work necessarily
connected therewith, and preliminaty to the mason work for
the piers and abutments referred to in the contract, the same
being on account of item (1) above referred to. A judgment
having been entered against the United States for that sum,
both parties have appealed to this court, the claimants contending that $75,000 should have been allowed for item (1), and the
defendants that nothing should have been allowed.
In regard to the view adopted by the Court of Claims, that
the claimants have no right to rely on the testimony of experts
introduced by them, but should have kept and produced
accounts of the cost and expense of the work, we are of opinion
that the claimants cannot be deprived of reasonable compensation for the work they did because the evidence they produce
as to the proper amount of such compensation is not of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.

Opinion of the Court.

character referred to, when it does not appear that such
evidence ever existed. If they produce the best evidence which
is accessible to them, and it enables the court to arrive at a
proper conclusion, that is sufficient. We think such evidence
is found in the estimate made by M1r. Abbott. Taking as
correct the statement made by the Court of Claims as to the
work done by the claimants and the defendants respectively,
in constructing coffer-dams, in pumping, in excavating, and in
preparing the beds for the masonry, we arrive at these results,
as to the work done by the claimants:
They made the coffer-dam at the Davenport abutment; that
at pier 1; part of that at pier 2 (it being completed by the defendants); all but the inside dam of that at pier 4; j of that
at the upper rest of the draw; that at the pivot pier of the
draw; that at the lower rest of the draw; and that at the
Island abutment.
They did the pumping at the Davenport abutment; at pier
1 ; at the pivot pier of the draw ; at the lower rest of the draw;
and at the Island abutment.
They made the excavation at the upper rest of the draw; and
that at the Island abutment.
They prepared the bed for the masonry at the Davenport
abutment; at pier 1; at the upper rest of the draw; at the
pivot pier of the draw; at the lower rest of the draw; and at
the Island abutment.
Applying to the above work the estimates of Mr. Abbott,
instead of those of Messrs. Scott and Stickney (which the Court
of Claims adopted), we have these results, premising, that as
Mr. Abbott's estimates are not made in separate specific items
for dam, pumping, excavating, and preparing bed, respectively,
in any case except that of the Davenport abutment, we have
proceeded on the basis of taking (in regard to pier 2, pier 4,
and the upper rest of the draw, where alone it was necessary),
as and for Mr. Abbott's separate specific items, such proportion
of his aggregate estimate as the corresponding specific item in
the corresponding aggregate estimate of Mr. Scott bears to.
such last named aggregate estimate:

HARVEY v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Davenport abutment--dam, pumping, and preparing
bed ........................................
Pier 1--dam, pumping, and preparing bed ........
Pier 2-part of dam; (the Court of Claims said that
it had no means of knowing how much work the
defendants did, and it deducted nothing therefor;
we follow that suggestion, and allow the claimants
for all the dam) .............................
Pier 4--all but the inside dam ; (the Court of Claihs
said that it had no means of knowing how much
work the defendants did, and it deducted nothing
therefor; we follow that suggestion, and allow the
claimants for all the dam) ....................
Upper rest of draw-1 of dam, of excavation, and
of preparing bed ............................
Pivot pier of draw-dam, pumping, and prepaying
-bed ........................................
Lower rest of draw-dam, pumping, and preparing
bed ........................................
Island abutment-dam, pumping, excavation and
preparing bed ...............................
Total ....................................

$2,668 35
4,668 00

4,147 86

5,793 83
2,475 25
4,842 56
3,698 19
3,780 98

$32,075 02

Mr. Abbott says that his estimates "are based upon cost of
material and labor, and intended to cover cost alone;" that 40
per cent. is "a reasonable per cent. of advance, for contingencies
and profits;" and that, with unusual- floods in the river, 40 per
cent. would be a minimum allowance. The evidence shows
that the claimants met with great difficulties because of floods
and high water. Mr. Van Wagenen's estimate is $36,000.
We have concluded to add 25 per cent. to the $32,075.02, that
is, $8,018.75, making, in all, $40,093.77.
As to item (2), that relating to loss and damage resulting to
the claimants in consequence of the reduction of the dimensions
of the piers and abutments, made subsequently to the making
of the contract, the claimants have appealed because nothing
was allowed therefor. The Court of Claims held, that, if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

claimants were entitled to recover any sum in respect of that
item, the sum was $3,066.42. ]3ut that court was of opinion
that, in its judgment in favor of the claimants, in the suit at
law, for $42,306.49, it had, in allowing $22,238.49, under item
5, as amended, "for handling, cutting, preparing and setting
stone for and in the piers and abutments," allowed the following item:
"Stone received and handled, not set, and ready as
backing to the 1,527 yards of the next preceding
item" (that is, 1,527 yards of stone, dressed, not
set), "an equal quantity, viz. : 1,527 cubic yards,
at $11 per yard, less $2, which it would have cost
$13,743.00;
to set it ..................................
that, in such allowance, it had allowed a profit of $8.65 a yard
on the 1,527 yards of undressed backing stone, being $13,208.55,
which had been paid to the claimanits ; that this was an allowance to the claimants of profits on masonry not constructed by
them; and that, although it could not be recovered back, its
payment must operate as a bar to any further recovery for the
same thing. We find, however, that, in the suit at law, item
3 claimed was "for loss of profits incurred by the unlawful reduction of the dimensions of the piers and abutments, $33,600;"
and that in its conclusions of law, in the suit at law, the Court
of Claims held that the claimants were not entitled to any recovery under item 3.
Moreover, that court allowed the
$13,743 referred to, as a part of item 5, as amended (above
quoted), for doing to the stone in question everything but setting it, it being undressed stone, in other respects prepared.
We are unable to perceive how sfch allowance can be classed
as an allowance for loss and damage from a reduction of the
dimensions of the piers and abutments.
We think the proper allowance for item (2) is this ; 449 yards
for the three piers of the draw, at $10 per yard = $4,490; and
101 yards for pier 1, at $8 per yard = $84.80-total, $4,574.80.
The only remaining question is as to interest, which the
Court of Claims disallowed. We think that, under the ruling

NEW JERSEY CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.v. MKILLS. 249
Syllabus.
in Till8on v. United States, 100 U. S. 43, interest cannot be
allowed on either of the items in question. We do not see
anything in the special statute, act of August 14, 1876, ch.
279, 19 Stat. 490, which takes the case out of the rule prescribed by ยง 1091 of the Revised Statutes.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is affirmed for the full
amount of the award made to the claimants, and an additional
amount, of $23,842.82, is allowed for the labor done and materials furnished by the claimants, in constructing coffer-dam.
and in performing the work necessarily connected therewith,
and preliminary to the mason work for the pieri and abutmerits
referred to in their contract, the same being an additional allowance on account of item (1) in their petition filed August 30,
1876; and the said judgment is reversed, so far as respects
item (2) in that petition, and the sum of $4,574.80 is allowed
for that item; and
This cause is emanded to the Court of Claims,with a direction to enterjudgment aecordingly.

THE CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW
JERSEY v. MILLS & Another, Executors.
APPEAL FROM THE oIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Submitted December 22, 1884.-Decided January 19, 1885.

A bill in equity, filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of New Jersey by
citizens of that State, stockholders in a New Jersey railroad corporation,
against that corporation, and a Pennsylvania railroad corporation, and
several individuals, citizens respectively of New Jersey and Pennsylvania,
and directors in one or both corporations, alleged that, without authority
of law, and in fraud of the rights of the plaintiffs, and with the concurrence of the individual defendants, the New Jersey corporation, pursuant
to votes of a majority of its stockholders, made, and the Pennsylvania corporation took, a -lease of the railroad and property of the New Jersey corporation ; and prayed that the lease might be set aside, the Pennsylvania
corporation ordered to account with the New Jersey corporation for all
profits received, the amount found due ordered to be paid to the New Jer-

