OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

compensation from the railroad company for taking his property
in the river for the construction of its road. The company
claimed that, as Congress, in the exercise of its jurisdiction over
the navigable waters of .the United States, had prescribed certain conditions on which the owners of saw-mills on the Mississippi River might erect piers and cribs in front of their property, the statute of Iowa, under which Renwick had made his
improvements, was void. This we held presented a federal
question and gave us jurisdiction; but nothing of that kind
appears in this record.
On the whole we are satisfied that no case has been made
for our jurisdiction, and
The inotion to dimi8 i granted.

BROWN, Administratrix, v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CbOURT OF CLAIMS.
Argued January 18, 1885.-Decided March 2, 1885.
In case of ambiguity in a statute, contemporaneous and uniform executive
construction is regarded as decisive.
The provisions of the act of August 3, 1861, ch. 42,, § 23, 12 Stat. 291, relating
to the retirement of officers of the navy, having been uniformly held, by the
officers charged with their execution, to be applicable to warrant officers, are
now held to be so applicable.
The act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 821, did not abolish the furlough pay list;
and an order after the passage of that act retiring a naval officer on furlough
pay was made in pursuance of law.
The administrator of a retired naval officer cannot, in order to recover from the
United'States an increase in the compensation of his intestate, take advantage of an alleged defect in the proceedings by which he was retired, and
which he acquiesced in without objection during his lifetime.
§ 1588 Rev. Stat. does not apply to officers retired on furlough pay.
Officers of the navy on the retired list are not entitled to longevity pay.
27wrey v. United States, ante, 310, affirmed.

James Brown, the intestate of the appellant, was a boatswain
in the United States navy. The petition in this case was filed
against the United States by the administratrix of his estate in

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the Court of Claims to recover a balance of pay which she alleged was due to Brown at his death. The Court of Claims
found the following facts: Brown, the decedent, -was appointed,
a boatswain in th na'vy of the United States, January 4, 1862.
On October 22, 1872, the Naval Retiring Board, before which
he had been ordered by the Secretary of the Navy under the
provisions of § 23 of the adt of August 3, 1861, 12 Stat. 291,
reported that he was incapacitated from performing the duties
of his office, and that there was no evidence that such incapacity was the result of anay incident of the service. He was accordingly, upon the day last .nentioned, by order of the President, retired on furlough pay. From October 22, 1872, to June
30, 1875, Brown received pay at the rate of $900 per annum,
and front July 1, 1875, to June 6, 1879, at the rate of $500 per
annum. On the day last named he died.
The court further found that the acts of August 3, 1861, 12
Stat. 28,7, and of December 21, 1861, 12 Stat. 329, were soon
after their enactment construed by the President and Navy
Department to include warrant officers,, and under that construction it had been the uniform practice of the President to
place warrant officers on the retired list, and large numbers of
these officers had been so retired. No protest or objection was
made by Brown during his lifetime either to his retirement
or rate of pay. The micounting officers of- the treasury had
uniformly held that longevity pay to retired officers was not
authorized by § 1593 of the Revised Statutes.
From these findings of fact the Court of Claims deduced, as
a conclusion of law, that Brown was legally placed on the retired list, and had received the full amount of pay allowed him
by law, and was not entitled to recover, and entered judgment
dismissing the petition. The appeal of the petitioner brings
that judgment under review.

.Mr. John PauZ Jones and M r. Robert B. Line8 for appellant.
.M. Solicitor-GenraZfor appeilee.
MR.JusTIcE WooDs delivered the opinion of the court.

recited the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:

He

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

It is not denied that up to July 1, 1 875, Brown received all
the pay to which he was entitled.
The first contention of the appellant is that the placing of
Brown on the retired lis was unauthorized by law, and that he
was therefore entitled to the full pay of a boatswain from July
1, 1875, up to the time of his death.
§ 23 of the act of August 3, 1861, 12 Stat. 291, by authority
of which the President assumed to retire Brown, reads as follows:
"That whenever any officer of the navy, on being ordered
to perform the duties appropriate to his commission, shall report himself unable to comply with such order, or whenever,
in the judgment of the President of the United States, an officer of the navy shall be in any way incapacitated from performing the duties of his office, the President, at his discretion,
shall direct the Secretary of the Navy to refer the case of such
officer to a board. . . . The board, whenever it finds an
officer incapacitated for active service, will repor' whether, in
its judgment, the incapacity resulted from long and faithful service, from wounds or injury received in the line of dutyj trom
sickness or exposure therein, or from any other inc'ident of service; if so, and the President approve of such judgment, the
disabled officer shall thereupon be phced upon the list of retired officers, according to the provisions of this act. But if
such disability or incompetency proceeded from other causes,
and the President concur in opinion with the board, the officer
may be retired upon furlough pay, or he shall be wholly retired
from the service with one year's pay, at the discretion of the
President; and in this last case his name shall be .wholly
omitted from the Navy Register. . . 21
The appellant asserts that this section applies only to commissioned officers, and not to warrant officers, to which latter class
Brown belonged.
It must be conceded that were the question a new one, the
true construction of the section would be open to doubt. But
the findings of the Court of Claims show that soon after the enactment of the act the President and the Navy Department construed the section to include warrant as well as commissioned offi-

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

cers, and that they have since that time uniformly adhered to that
construction, and that under its provisions large numbers of
warrant officers have been retired. This contemporaneous and
uniform interpretafion is entitled to weight in the construction
of the law, and in a case of doubt ought to turn the scale.
In E wards v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 206, it was said by this
court that "in the construction of a doubtful'and ambiguous
law the contemporaneous construction of those who were called
upon to act under the law, and were appointed to carry its provisions into effect, is entitled to great respect.' This case is cited
upon this point with approval in Atkin8 v. DisintegratingCo., 18
Wall. 272, 301; Smrnt7Te v. Fiske, 23 Wall. 374, 382; United
States v. Pugh, 99 U. S. 265; and in United Stats v. Moore,
95 U. S. 760, 763. In the case last mentioned the court said
that "the construction given to a statute by those charged
with the duty of executing it . . . ought not to be overruled
without cogent reasons. . . . The officer concerned are
usually able men and masters of the subject. Not unfrequently they are the draftsmen of the laws they are afterward
called upon to interpret." And in the case of United State8 v.
Pugh, the court said: "While, therefore, the question," the
construction of the abandoned and paptured property act,
"is one by no means free from doubt, we are not inclined to interfere at this late day with a rule which has been acted upon
by the Court of Claims and the Executive for so long a time."
See also United State8 v. State Bank of North Carolina,6 Pet.
29; United States v. Alexander, 12 Wall. 177; Peabody v.
Stark, 16 Wall. 240; and Hahn v. United States, 107 13. S. 402.
These authorities justify us in adhering to the construction
of the law under consideration adopted by the executive department of the government, and are conclusive against the
contention of appellant, that § 23 of the act of August 3, 1861,
did not apply to warrant officers.
The appellant next contends that the retirement of Brown
was illegal, because at the time of his retirement no officer
could be placed on the retired list for disability not originating
in the line of duty. The theory of this contention seems to be
this: the statute required that all officers retired for disability

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

or incompetency not resulting from long and faithful service,
or wounds or injuries received in the line of duty, or from
sickness or exposure therein, should be retired on furlough pay,
and, as § 3, 5 and 19 of the naval appropriation act of July 15,
1870, 16 Stat. 321, abolished the furlough pay list, the President was only authorized to retire Brown. wholly from the
service with one year's pay. We think it is clear that the sections of the statute referred to were not intended to abolish the
furlough pay list. So far as they refer to retired officers they
apply to the retired list, and not to the retired list on furlough
pay. For thirty years the legislation of Congress has divided
retired naval officers into two classes. By §2 of the act of
February 28, 1855, 10 Stat. 616, the officers on the retired, or;
as it was then designated, reserved list, were divided into those
entitled to receive leave of absence pay and those entitled to
receive furlough pay. The distinction between the two classes
of retired officers has been preserved down to the present time.
Thus, in § 3 of the act of January 16,1857, 11 Stat. 154, it was
provided that the President should be authorized to transfer
any officer from the furlough to the reserved pay list. By § 23
of the act of August 3, 1861, 12 Stat. 290, 291, by virtue of
which Brown was retired, it was provided that officers incapacitated for active service from loijg service, wounds, etc.,
should be placed on the list of retired officers, but those incapacitated from other causes should be retired upon furlough
pay. So, by § 2 of the act approved Xuly 2, 1866, 14 Stat. 345,
it was provided that the rate of pay of officers of the navy on
the retired list.and not on duty, nor retired on furlough pay,
should be one-half the pay to which such officers would be entitled if on duty at sea.
This legislation -has been reproduced in the Revised Statutes,
where the distinction between officers bn the retired list and
officers on the retired list on furlough pay is preserved. Thus,
§§ 1588 and 1592 prescribe one rate of pay for retire4 officers,
and § 1593 a different rate for officers on the retired list on
furlough pay, and § 1594 authorizes the President, by and with
the'advice and consent of the Senate, to transfer any officer of
the navy on the retired list from the furlough to the retired

BROWN v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

pay list. It is plain, therefore, that § 5 of the act of July 15,
1870, relied on by appellant, and which is the only-one which
refers to the pay of retired officers, applies in both its terms
and meaning only to the pay of officers on the retired list, and
not to the compensation of officers retired on furlough pay, to
which class Brown belonged, and did not.abolish the furlpugh
pay list. The order of the President retiring Brown on furlough pay was, therefore, made strictly in 'accordance with the
provisions of the statute then and still in force.
It is next objected that the order of the President retiring
Brown was illegal and void, because the retiring board having
reported him incapacitated, did not find and report what was
the cause of his incapacity, but only that there was no evidence
that it was the result of any incident of the service. But as it
is incumbent on the officer whose case comes before a retiring
board to show, in order to secure a report which will entitle
him to be placed on the retired list rather than on the retired
list on furlough pay, that his incapacity was the result of some
incident of the service, the report of the board that there was
no evidence to support such a finding is to all intents and purposes a report that the incapacity was not the result of an incident of the service, and justifies an order retiring the officer
on furlough pay. But if there had been any irreguFarity or defect in the report of the board it was the duty of Brown to object to it without unreasonable delay. After his acquiescence in
the proceedings during the remainder of his life, it does not lie
with his administratrix to object to them, even for a substantial
defect, much less for such an irregularity, if it be an irregularity, as is set up in this case. Our opinion is, therefore, that the
order of the President retiring Brown was authorized by law,
and was regular and valid.
Appellant next insists that, conceding the retirement of
Brown to be valid, he did not receive, after July Ist, 1875, the
pay to which he was entitled. It is contended, first, that he
should have been paid according to the provisions of § 5 of the
act of July 15, 1870, 16 Stat. 333, now forming the last clause
in § 1588 of the Revised Statutes. This enactment provides
that officers on the retired list shall receive one-half the sea-pay

.574

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

allowed to the grade or rank which they held at the date of
their retirement. But we have seen that Brown did not belong
to the general list of retired officers, but to a distinct class,
namely, officers retired on furlough pay. His case, therefore,
fell under the enactments embodied in § 1593 of the Revised
Statutes, which fixed his pay at one-half that to which he would
have been entitled if on leave of absence on the active list.
This is the rate at which he has been paid. It is next said
that, conceding that his pay was fixed by § 1593, he should,
after his retirement, have received the increase of pay allowed
officers on the active list for length of service by § 1556 of the
Revised Statutes, page 267, commonly known as longevity pay,
which, after July 1, 1875, would have entitled him to $600 per
annum instead of the $500 which he actually received. This
last contention has been decided adversely to the view of the
appellant by this court, at the present term, in the case of
Thornley v. United States, ante, page 310. We are, therefore,
of opinion that Brown was paid, in his lifetime, all that he was
entitled to receive under the laws then in force. The judgment
of the Court of Claims dismissing his petition was therefore
right, and is
Affirmed.
CHICAGO LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v. NTEEDLES,
Auditor.
IN

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COUdT OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
Argued January 29, 1885.-Decided March 2, 1885.

When the final judgment of a State court necessarily involves an adjudication
of a claim, made therein, that a statute of the State is in derogation of
rights secured to a party by the Constitution, this court has jurisdiction of
the cause in error, although the State court did not in terms pass upon
the point.
A grant of corporate franchises is necessarily subject to the condition that the
privileges and franchises conferred shall not be abused ; or employed to defeat the ends for which they were conferred ; and that when abused or
misemployed, they may be withdrawn by proceedings consistent with law.

