DRENNEN v..LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY.

51

Statement of Facts.

DRENNEN & Others v. LONDON ASSURANCE COM-

PANY.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES F OR THE
DISTRICT OF

INNESOTA.

Submitted December 2,1884.-Decided January 5, IS5.

An agreement by the members of a firm to admit a person into their business,
on condition that the company shall become incorporated, and that he shall
pay into the firm for its use, a stated sum of money which is to be put into
the corporation, it being understood that no change shall be made in the
name or character of the firm until the corporatfon shall be formed; and
the subsequent payment of the agreed sum, do not make such person a member of the firm, or give him an interest in the partnership pvoperty in advance of the creation of the corporation.

This action was brought on two policies of fire insurance,
issued March 10, 1883, by the London Assurance Corporation
of London on certain goods, wares and merchandise, which, it
was admitted, were, at the time of insurance, the property of
the firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett, doing business in the
city of Minneapolis, Minnesota. The loss occurred on the 29th
of July, 1883, and there was no dispute, at the trial, as to its
amount.
Each policy contained a provision that it should be void if
the property insured "be sold or transferred, or any change
takes place in title or possession (except by succession by reason
of the death of the insured), whether by legal process, or judicial decree, or voluntary transfer or conveyance." Also, that
"if the interest of the assured in the property be any other
than the entire, unconditional and sole ownership of the property, for the use and benefit of the assured, . . . it must be
so represented to the corporation, and so expressed in the
written part of this policy, otherwise the policy shall be void.
When property has been sold and delivered, or otherwise
disposed of, so that all interest or liability on the part of the
assured herein named has ceased, this insurance on said prop-,
erty shall immediately terminate."

OCTOBER- TERM, 1884. ,
Statement of Facts.

The defendant disputed its liability on the ground that
Drennen, Starr & Everett, on the 24th of May, 1883, before
theloss, admitted one Arndt as a partner in their firm, and
that thereby, without its knowledge or consent, and by the
voluntary act of the plaintiffs, the title, interest and possession
of the insured in the property were dhanged, and the policies
became void. The plaintiffs denied that Arndt ever became a
member of their firm, or acquired any interest in the property
insured. 'Upon this issue the proof was, substantially, as will
be now stated.
Arndt resided in Sandusky, Ohio. Hevisited Minneapolis
in May, 1883, and first became acquainted with plaintiffs,
Drennen and Starr, on or about the 20th day, of that month.
Negotiations then commenced with Drennen and Starr, who
acted for their firm, and resulted in the making of the following agreement:
"This agreement, made and entered into this 24th day of
May, A.D. 1883, by and between E. J. A. Drennen, F. W. Starr,
and Edward D. Everett, who are now members of and constitute the firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett, all of the city of
Minneapolis, Minnesota, parties of the first part, and D. M.
Arndt, of the city of Sandusky, Ohio, party of the second part,
vitnesseth: Said parties of the first part hereby agree to receive into their business said Arndt on the following terms and
conditions:
"1st. Said company is to become incorporated.
"2d. Said Arndt is to pay into said firm for its use, on or
before June 14th, 1883, five thousand dollars.
"3rd. Said Arndt is to pay into said firm for its use, on'or
before January 1st, 1885, an additional sum of five thousand
dollars.
"4th. Said Arndt is to pay said firm interest at the rate of
8 per cent. per annum on each of said sums of five thousand
dollars from January 1st, 1883, till each of said sums shall be
paid as aforesaid, the interest on last-mentioned sum to be paid
semi-annually.
"5th. If said Arndt shall be unable to pay said second
%5,000 by January 1st, 1885, his interest shall be decreased 50

DRENNEN v. LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY.

53

Statement of Facts.
per cent. and until said last-mentioned sum of $5,000 shall be
paid, or interest decreased a aforesaid, the liability of said
Arndt therefor shall be evidenced by his promissory note exe-.
cuted to said firm bearing interest as aforesaid, and dated Sanuary lst, 1883. The business to be carried on by the new
company to be formed as aforesaid shall be of the same nature
as that now conducted by Drennen, Starr & Everett; the name
of the new company to be formed shall be determined hereafter.
"It is understood and agreed that of the effects and rights
of the firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett, said Drennen owns
one-half and said Starr and Everett each one-fourth thereof.
All said rights and effects shall be put into the corporation'to
be formed as aforesaid, at their value as shown by the inventory taken January 1st, 1883, less any loss by reason of nonpayment of any claim for goods sold by them before that time,
and that to the amount to be contributed as aforesaid shall be
added said sum of ten thousand dollars to be paid by said
Arndt as aforesaid.
"The interest and shares of the several parties to this agreement in the mew company shall be in proportion to the amount
contributed by each to its capital stock according to the plaz
aforesaid.
"When a charter shall be procured as aforesaid 50 per cent.
of. the stock of said Arndt shall be held by said .company, or
some one in trust for it, till said second sum of $5,000, *with
acruing interest thereon, shall be paid. It is understood said
Arndct is to attend to the book-keeping and office work of said
business, And that each remaining partner of the firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett shall actively engage in the business of
the new company; that no change in the name or character of
the firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett shall be made until said
corporation shall be formed.
"In testimony whereof, said parties hereto set their signatures, the day and year first herein written.
"E. J. A. DRFNNEN.
"FRED. W. STARR.
"DAVID Mf. ARNDT."

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

* Everett, one of the plaintiffs, was then absent from Minneapolis, but upon his return soon after, was informed by his
partners of the contents of the written agreement with Arndt.
The latter, immediately after the agreement was signed, went
to Sandusky, but returned to Minneapolis about the 17th of
June, 1883. This was after Everett learned from his partners
what had occurred between them and Arndt. On the 18th of
June, 1883, plaintiffs received from Arndt the sum of $5,000,
which vas placed to his individual credit upon the account
books of the firm, and was by plaintiffs deposited in their
bank; and on July 3, 1883, he made and delivered to them
his promissory note for $5,000, which was also entered upon
their account books to his individual credit. It was accepted
by them as other bills receivable in their business.
This constituted the whole evidence upon which the case
went to the jury. There was a verdict and judgment for the
defendant. The plaintiffs sued out this writ of error.
.f.
3: C. Drennen and ArP. George B. Young for plainJ.
tiffs in error.
.r. C. . -Davisfor defendant in error.-The contract constituted Arndt a partner upon the payment of $5,000 and giving his note for $5,000. The language when analyzed shows
this. If not a partner, he became a credit6r, and nothing can
be clearer than that the parties did not intend such a result.
The case of Syers v. Sgyers, 1 L, R. App. Cas. 174, is precisely
in-point. Suppose from some reason--as death of one of the
parties-the corporation had never been formed. Could
Arndt have sued for his money? Obviously not. His remedy
would have been a bill in equity for winding up the partnership. If the plaintiffs' contention is correct, Arndt paid in
$10,000 on a mere executory promise to forih a corporation,
which could not be enforced. Stocker v. TVdderburn, 3 K. &
J. 393; _Naxwell v. Port Tenant Co., 24 Beav. 495; Slwft.eld
Ga8 Co. v. H'arrion, 17 Beav. 294; BlucTl v. ]Jallalue, 27
Beav. 398. The conduct of the parties, too, taken in connection with the agreement, is reconcilable with no theory other

DRENNEN v. LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY.

55

Opinion of the Court.
than that Arndt purchased a present interest. If it be doubtful, on the face of an instrument, whether a present demise or
future letting was meant, the intention of the parties may be
gathered from their conduct. C'qJpman v. Bluck, 4 Bing. N1W.
C. 187, 195. See also Doe v. Ries, 8 Bing. 181; Drummond
v. Attorney-General, 2 H. L. Cas. 861; Xaoha. v. TFowne, 5 Wall.
689; Railroadv. Trimble, 10 Wall. 367. If these conclusions
are correct, it follows that a change had taken place in the title
and possession of the property, and that the interest of the
assured became other than the entire, unconditional and sole
ownership of the same, and the policies were therefore avoided
under each of the conditions contained in them. Any process by which a new party is introduced, by which the insured
shifts the moral hazard from himself to a stranger, creates a
new contract and a new relation, which the company has not
consented to assume. .Afalley v. Insurance Co. (Supreme Cb.
Connecticut, June '. 1883), 13 Insurance Law Journal, 38.
This is not the case of one partner retiring, leaving the insured
property with the firm, which is held in some States not
to affect the policy. Lockwood v. Insurance Co., 47 Conn.
564; IfofJnan v. Insurance Co., 32 N. Y. 405. It is the introduction of a stranger as custodian of the property, which cannot be done. Malley v. Insurance Co., cited above. Test v.
Insurance Co., 22 Ohio St. 11; Dix v. Insurance Co., 22 Ill.
272; Barnes v. Insurance Co., 51 Maine, 110; Insurance Co.
v. lice, 23 Ind. 179; .Finleyv. Insurance Co., 30 Penn. St.
311; Insurance Co. v. Richer, 10 Mich. 279. See also Day v.
fisuranwe Co., 23 Barb. 623; Wood v. Insurance Co., 31 Vt.
55 ; Keeler v. Insurance Co., 16 Wisc. 523; Insurance Co. v.
fTauiyein, 60 Ill. 521; Card v. Insurance Co., 4 Missouri App.
424; Oakes v. Insurance Co., 118 Mass. 164.
delivered the opinion of the court.
the
facts
as
above
stated, and continued:
He recited
At the trial below the plaintiffs asked the cour' to instruct
the jury that the written agreement with Arndt, followed by
his payment of $5,000 in money, the delivery of his note for
a like amount, and the entry of the money and notes to his
Mn. JusTIcn HA LA.-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

individual credit -upon the books of Drennen, Starr & Everett,
did not constitute him a partner with plaintiffs, as between
themselves, aind did not have the effect to assign or transfer to
him any title 6r interest in the property insured. The court
refused to give that instruction, but charged the jury that "said
agreement so signed, if assented to by Everett, and the receipt
by plaintiffs of the money and note and the credit thereof on
their books to Arndt, would and did constitute Arndt a partner
with plaintiffs, as between themselves, from the time of the
receipt by plaintiffs of said money, and had the effect to convey and tuansfer to and vest, in Arndt a joint and undivided
interest and title with plaintiffs in the insured property."
The instruction refused, as well as the one given by the
court, assumes that the admission of Arndt at any time before
the loss-as a partner in the firm to which the policies were issued, would have involved such a transfer of the property or
such a change in its title or possession as would render the
policies void. Without considering whether that assumption
is justified by a proper interpretation of the policies, we have
now only to determine whether there was error in holding that
Arndt, by virtue of the agreement of May 24, 1883, and the
facts recited in the charge to the jury, became a partner in the
firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett. , This question is within a
very narrow compass; for our inquiry is restricted to the ascertainment of the real intention of the parties as disclosed by
the written agreement, considered as a whole,and by their conduct in execution of its provisions.
It appears, in the forefront of the agreement, that Arndt
did not acquire an interest in the firm property-immediately
upon its execution; for, the plaintiffs only agreed to receive
him into their business on certain terms and conditions thereafter to be performed. The first of those conditions was, that
the company-the one to be formed by the proposed connection between the plaintiffs and Arndt--should become incorporated.; then, he was to pay into the firm for its use, on or
before June 14, 1883, the. sum of $5,000,, and a like sum on the
1st of January, 1885, the latter to be evidenced by his note, dach
sum to bear interest from January 1, 1883, until paid; finally,

DRENNEN 7,. LONDON ASSURANCE COMPANY.

57

Opinion of the Court.
his interest was to be dgereased fifty per cent. if he failed to
pay the second $5,000 by January 1, 1885; "the business "that in which Arndt-was to have an interest-" to be carried
on by the new company to be formed as aforesaid shall be of
the same nature as that nbw conducted by Drennen, Starr &
Everett." Then follows a declaration as to the property upon
the basis of which the new company was to be organized, viz..
all the rights and effects, owned by Drennen, Starr & Everett,
in the proportion of their respective interests to be put into the
corporation to be formed, according to their value as shown by
the inventory of January 1, 1883, less any loss, by reason of
non-payment for goods sold before that date, to which was to
be added the $10,000 which Arndt agreed to pay-the interest
of the several parties in the new-ompany to be according to
the amounts contributed by them, respectively, to its capital
stock.
These provisions -all plainly point to an interest that Arndt
was to acquire, not presently, n6r.immediately upon the agreement being signed, but at some future period, when the conditions distinctly set out in the agreement, not some, but all of
them, were performed. When those conditions were satisfied,
and not before, he would have been -entitled to demand, as of
right, the execution of the stipulation that he be received into
the business then represented by Drennen, Starr & Everett,
but thereafter to be represented by the new or incorporated
company. The parties appear, ex industria,to have excluded
the possibility of his acquiring an interest- in or control over
the insured property in advance of the formation of an incorporated company. Upon no other ground can the clause,
"that no change in the name or eharacterof the firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett shall be made until said corporation shall
be formed," be satisfactorily accounted for. It may be that
Drennen, Starr & Everett were unwilling to establish the confidential relations of partner with Arndt, but were willing to
unite their property with his money, to be owned by a corporation in which all would become stockholders, according to
the amounts respectively contributed to its capital stock.
Hence, perhaps, the wording of the clause last quoted. If, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

the jury were in effect instructed, Arndt became a partner in
thq firm of Drennen, Starr & Everett prior to the liss, then
the character of that firm was essentially changed; for, as
partner, he would have become, at and before- the proposed
corporation was formed, at least as to third parties, a general
agent of his copartnerc, in respect of all matters within the
scope and objects of the partnership, with authority, implied
from the relation itself, to participate in the control and
management of the property, and, in the name of the firm,
even to dispose of the entire right of all the partners for partnership purposes. The agreement is not, in our judgment, fairly
susceptible of a construction which is attended by such results.
The requirement that Arndt was to be received into the business upon the*condition, among others, that the company
should be incorporated, and the further requirement that
neither the name nor the character of the firm was to be
changed until the proposed corporation was formed, cannot be
satisfied by any other interpretation than one which excludes
him from all control or management of, or legal interest
in, the property insured, prior to the formation of such corporation.
It is suggested that Arndt would not have paid $10,000 in
cash and notes "into the firm for its use" unless he supposed
that he would theteby acquire a present interest in the finn's
property. The answer is, that the want of business sagacity
in such an arrangement, if such there was, cannot control the'
interpretation of the written agreement between the parties.
Arndt, in effect, agreed to pay Drennen, Starr & Everett $5,000 on June 14, 1883, and a like sum on January 1, 1885, with
interest on each sum from January 1, 1883, until paid, for the
privilege of becoming, to the extent of such payments, a stockholder in a corporation thereafter to be formed, whose capital
stock should represent all the effects and rights of that firm, as
of the date from which Arndt was to pay interest (less any loss
arising from the non-payment of goods previously sold), increased by the $10,000 which Arndt agreed to pay into the old
firm. Such was the whole extent of the agreement.

HOLLISTER v. BENEDICT MANUFACTURING CO. 59
Syllabus.

The instruction by the court below proceeded upon the
ground that the payment by Arndt in cash and notes of the
amount which he agreed to pay, and their receipt and entry
upon the books of the firm to his credit, gave him an interest
as partner in the business; whereas such facts only established
the performance of some, not of all, the conditions prescribed;
for, by the agreement, the formation of the proposed corporation was expressly made a condition, with the others named, to
Arndt's becoming interested in the business.
In our judgment, looking at the whole agreement, the parties did not contemplate a partnership, and none was ever established between them. The agreement looked only to a corporation, the payments and other things specified being in preparation for its ultimate formation, which was an adequate, as it
was the actual, consideration; consequently, there was, prior to
the loss, and under the most liberal interpretation of the policies, no change in the title or possession of the property, nor
any transfer thereof, that avoided the policies.
This is ufficien.t to dispose of the case. For the reasons
given

The judgment must be reversed and a new t7r0iaZ

d.

HOLLISTER, Collector, v. BENEDICT & BURNHAM
MANUFACTURING COMPAiNY.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.
Argued November 11, 12, 1884.-Decided January 5, 1885.

Novelty and increased utility in an improvement upon previous devices do not
necessarily make it an invention.
A device which displays only the expected skill of the maker's calling, and involves only the exercise of ordinary faculties of reasoning upon materials
supplied by special knowledge and facility of manipulation resulting from
habitual intelligent practice, is in no sense a creative work of inventive

