UNITED STATES v. INDIANAPOLIS RR. CO.

11

Opinion of the Court.

motives, considered as the moral inducements for their votes,
will vary with the different members of the legislative body.
The diverse character of such motives, and the impossibility of
penetrating into the hearts of men and ascertaining the truth,
precludes all such inquiries as impracticable and futile. And
in the present case, even if the motives of the supervisors were
as alleged, the ordinance would not be thereby changed from a
legitimate police reglation, unless in its enforcement it is made
to operate only against the class mentioned; and of this there
is no pretence.
It follows that the several questions certifiet must be answered in the negative and the judgment be affirmed;
And it i8 8o or'dered.

UNITED STATES, Intervenor, v. INDIANAPOLIS & ST.
LOUIS RAILROAD COMPATY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Submitted January 28, 1885.-Decided March 16, 1885.

Interest on bonds of a railroad corporation earned by the company during the
year 1871, but payable 1ly the terms of the coupon January 1, 1872, is not
subject to the tax authorized by § 15, act of July 14, 1870, 16 Stat. 260, to
be levied and collected for and during the year 1871.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
-Mr. Solieitor-Generalfor appellant.
.Mr. Joh f. Dye for appellee.

MR. JUSTicEiA.RLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought to foreclose certain mortgages given
to secure bonds issued by the Indianapolis and St. Louis Rail.
road Company. A final decree of foreclosure having been
passed, the mortgaged .property was sold, and the sale was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

confirmed by the court. The United States intervened by
petition, and asked that certain sums, alleged to be due to the
government on account of ,taxes, be first paid out of the proceeds.
It appeared that certain interest coupons of the bonds of the
company were payable, and were paid, on the first days of
September and November, 1870, and that certain other interest
coupons of the same company were payable oh the .first day of
January, 1872, and were then paid but of its earnings made
prior to that date and during the year 1871.
The court below held: 1. That the act of July 14, 1870, 16
Stat. 260, ch. 255, § 15, did not impose an internal revenue tax
on interest coupons of the bonds of the railroad company payable and paid during the lait fiite months of that year. 2.
That the law did not impose an internal revenue tax on interest coupons of such bonds, payable and paid on the 1st day of
January,1872.
The United States acquiesces in the judgment in respect of
the first of these claims, but contends that the act of July 14,
1870, imposed a tax u pon interest coupons that were paid out
of the corporation earnings for 1871, although such payment
was not due nor made until January 1, 1872. The question
depends upon the construction of § 15 of the act of 1870,
which provides, "That there shall be levied and collected, for
and duringthe year 1871, a tax of two and one-half per centum
on the amount of all interest or coupons paid on bonds or other
evidences of debt issued and payable in one or more years
after date, by any of the corporations in this section hereinafter
enunerated [railroad corporations being among the number],
and on the amount of all dividends of earnings, income or gains
hereafter declared
shall be payable,

.

.

.

.

.

whenever and wherever the same
and on all undivided, profits of any

such corporition which have accrued and 'been earned and
added to any surplus, contingent, or other fund," &c.
In construfing- this section in Railroad Co. v.* United State,
101 U. -S. 543, 550, the court said: "The interest in this case
was' neither payable nbr paid in 1871, and, as- the tax is not
leviable or collectible intil the interest is payable, we see no

M

EX PARTE FISK.
Syllabus.

way in which the company can be charged on thig account.
The tax is not on the interest as it accrues, but when it is paid.
No provision is made for airorata distribution of the burden
over the time the .interest is accumulating, and as the tax can
only be levied for and during the year 1871, we think, if the

interest is in good faith not payable in that year, the tax is not
demandable, either in whole or in part."
This decision covers the present case. The claim of the
United States is not for a tax on dividends or gains, but is distinctly for a tax on interest accruing on the bonds -of the railroad company, and.which was not payable nor paid until after
the year 1871, for and during which the act directed it to be
levied and colected. We do not perceive that the liability of
the corporation for tax on this interest, as such, is affected by
the circumstance that the interest was paid out of the earnings

made in the previous year.
Jucftrwnt.Affli,7d.

Ex paxte FISK.
ORIGINAL.
Argued January 6.1885.-Decided March 2,18B.
The principle that in actions at law the laws of the States shall be regarded as
rules of decision in the courts of the United States, § 721 Rev. Stat., and
that the prac'tice, pleadings, and forms and modes of,proceedings in such
cases shalU conform as near as may-be to those of the courts of the States
in which the courts sit, § 914, is applicable only where there is no rule -on
the same subject prescribed by act of Congress, and where the State-rule is
not in conflict with any such law.
The statute of New York, which permits a party iba suit to be examined by
his adversary as a witness at any time previous to the trial in an action at
law, is in conflict with the provision of the Revised Statutes of the United
States which enacts that "The mode of proof in the trial of actions at common law shall be by oral testimony and examination of witnesses in -pen
cour except as hbereinafter provided." § 861.
None of the exceptions afterwards found in §§ 868, 866 and 867 provide for
such examination of a party to the suit in advance of the trial as the statute
.of-New York pezmits.

