OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

It is no answer to the case made by the petition to say, ag
the defendants, by their counsel do,-that the judgment of the
plaintiff is still in force and bearing interest, and the liability
of the county still remains undisturbed. What is a judgment
worth that cannot be enforced? The gravamen of the plaintiff's. complaint is that .the defendants have obstructed, and
continue to obstruct, the collection of his judgment, and he
avers that he has -been damaged thereby to the amount of his
judgment and interest; in other Words, that by reason of the
unlawful and. malicious conduct of the defendants, his judgment has been rendered worthless. To reply to this that the
judgment still remains in force on the records of the court is
an inadequate answer. to the plaintiff's cause of action.
It follows from the views we have expressed that the Circuit
Court erred in sustaining the demurrer to the petition.
Judgment revred,and tiw cauee remandedfor furt.ler proceedhzg8 in on.formity wit thi8 opin-on.
MR. JUSTCE MnILER and MR. JusTicE FIELD dissented.

CENTRAL RAILROAD & BANIKING COMPANY OF
GEORGIA v. PETTUS & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALA AMA.
,Argued April 14,15,1884.-Decided January 5,1885.

Certain unsecured creditors of a railroad company in Alabama instituted proceedings in equity, in a court of that State, on behalf of themselves and of
all other creditors of the same class who should come in and contribute to
the expenses of the suit, to establish a lien upon the property of that com.
pany in the hands of other railroad corporations which had purchased and
had possession of it. The suit was successful, and the court allowed all unsecured creditors -to prove their claims before a register. Pending the reference before the register the defendant corporations bought up the claims of
complainants, and other unsecured creditors. Thereupon the golicitors of
complainants filed their petition in the cause to be allowed reasonable compensation in respect of the demands of unsecured creditors (other than their

CENTRAL RAILROAD v. PETTUS.
Statement of Facts.
immediate clients), who filed their claims under the decree, and to have a
lien- declared therefor on the property reclaimed for the benefit of such
creditors. The suit between the solicitors and such defendant corporations
was removed to the Circuit Court of the United States: Held, 105 U. S. 527, the
(1) Within the principle announced in Tilustees v. (.Oreei
claim was a proper one to be allowed.
(2) It was, also, proper to give the solicitors a lien upon the property 'irought
under the control of the court by tife suit and the decree therein, such lien
being authorized by the law of Alabama.
(3) That under the circumstances of this case the amount allowed by the court
below was excessive.

This was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the [Middle District of- Alabama in favor of
the appellees--Pettus & Dawson and Watts & Sons-adjudging them entitled to the, sum -of $35,161.21, and interest
thereon at eight per cent. per annum from [March 7, 1881,
-with lien, to secure its payment, upom the road-bed, depots,
side tracks, turnouts, trestles, and bridgep owned and used by
the appellants--corporations of.the State of Georgia-in operating the railroad formerly belonging to the [Montgomery and
West Point Railroad Company, an Alabama corp'ration, and
which extends from Montgomery to West Point, with a
branch from Opelika to Columbus. This property was directed
to be exposed to sale, unless, within a given time, the said
amount was paid.
This suit was the outgrowth of certain litigation -in the
courts of Alabamt relating to the before-mentioned and other
railroad property, in which the appellants were intei'rested. A
statement of its history is necessary to a clear understanding of
the questions now presented for determination.
On the 1st of September, 1870, the Western Railroad Company, an Alabama corporation, purchased and took possession
of the railroad'(main line and branch) and all other property
of the Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company,-one
of the terms and conditions of such purchase being, as was
claimed, that the former company assumed the payment of all
outstanding debts and obligations of the latter, and agreed to
issue its capital stock, dollar for dollar, in exchange for stock
of the Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company out-

OCTOBER TERk, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

standing. It was a part of that arrangemenit that the last
named company should, as it subsequently did, surrender its
harter to the State.
When this purchase was made there were, upon the franchises and property of the latter company, two mortgages to
secure bonds proposed to- be issued; one, June 6, 1866, for
$750,000, bonds for the whole of which were issued; the other,
May 1, 1868, for $400,000, bonds for $45,000 of which were
issued. It had also outstanding bonds issued in 1866 and 1867,
not secured by mortgage or otherwise. The Western Railroad
Company had, at the time of its purchase, a mortgage, of date
September 15, 1868, upon its own property and franchises, to
secure $600,000 of bonds then, or at some subsequent period,
guaranteed by the present appellants.
On the 15th of September, 1870, that company executed to
Morris and Lowery, trustees, a mortgage upon its property and
franchises, (including the property transferred to it by the
Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company,) to secure
the payment of $1,200,000 of bonds, thereafter to be issuedand of which a large amount was issued-and their payment
was also guaranteed by the appellants.
Subsequently, on March 31, 1874, those trustees commenced
a suit in the Chancery Court of Montgomery County, Alabama,
against the Western Railroad Company,,the pr sent appellants;
the surviving trustees in the mortgages executed by the Montgomery and West Point. Railroad Company; and others. Its
object was to procure a sale of the property of the former company, including that purchased- from the latter company. A
final decree was passed December 18, 1874, ordering a sale,
subject, however, to a lien, in respect of the property formerly
owned by the last named company, in favor of thejiolders of
its mortgage bonds, according to their respective priorities;
and, in respect of the property of the Western Railroad Company, to a lien in favor of the holders of bonds secured by its
mortgage of September 15, 1868. The sale was had-the present appellants becoming the purchasers.
On the 8th of May, 1875, Branch, Sons & Co., H. P. Hoadley, and C. S. Plank-holding bonds of the (old) Montgomery

CENTRAL RAILROAD v. PETTUS.
Statement of Facts.

and West Point Railroad Company, not secured by mortgage
-through Pettus & Dawson and Watts & Sons, their solicitors,
exhibited a bill in equity in the same court, against the present
appellants, the -Western Railroad Company, the Montgomery
and West Point Railroad Company, and others. Thej sued
for themselves as well as for all other creditors of the last
named company who should come in and make themselves
complairants and contribute to the expenses of the suit. Such
proceedings'were had-the Georgia corporations appearing and
making defence-that, on the 1st day of May, 1877, a final decree was entered, by which it was, among other things, adjudged that "the unsecured creditors of the Montgomery and
West Point Railroad Company, to which class complainants
belong, have a lien" upon the property transferred by it to
the Western Railroad Company; that such lien was subordinate to those for the bonds issued under the several mortgages
executed by the Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company that were outstanding and unpaid, but superior to that of
the mortgage executed by the Western Railroad Company
after its said purchase, so far as the property of the Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company was covered by that
mortgage; and that the property of all kinds, belonging to
the latter company, be sold to satisfy its debts according to
priority.
The cause was referred to a register to ascertain and report
the amounts due to the complainants, and to such other unsecured creditors of the Montgomery and West Point Railroad
Company as should prove their claims pursuant to the decree:
also, the amounts due to holders of bonds issued under its several mortgages. Upon appeal by the two Georgia corporations
to the Supreme Court of Alabama, that decree was affirmed.
The register thereafter proceeded with its execution. Numerous parties, including the complainants, appeared before him
and had their claims rdgistered, the creditors in each instance
retaining in their own custody the evidence of their respective
demands. The aggregate amounts of such claims was very
large.
On the 15th of April, 1879, the register not having made his

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facis.

report upon. these claims, Pettus & Dawson and Watts & Sons,
by-leave of the court, filed in the cause their joini petition, alleging, in substance, that, as solicitors specially employed by the
complainants, Branch Sons & Co., Hoadley, and Plank, they
prepared and filed the original bill, as well in behalf of themselves as of all other unsecured creditors of the Montgomery
and West Point :Railroad Company who should come in and
contribute to the expenses of the suit; conducted the proceedings to a final decree; represented the same interests in the Supreme Court of Alabama; that their relations to the suit were
well known to the Georgia corporations during the whole
period of the litigation; that pending the reference before the
register, after the rights of complainants and all creditors of
the same class had been established by the final decree, those
corporations made a secret arrangement with their immediate
clients, whereby the claims of the latter were paid infull, principal and.iiterest, and whereby, also, Branch, Sons & Co., and
their co-complainants, agreed to withhold from their solicitors
the fact of such settlement until the Georgia corporations could
buy or settle all other claims of the unsecured creditors of the
Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company; that "afterwards said two Georgia companies, defendants to this suit, did
buy up or settle the other claims,.which had been filed in the
cause, under said decree," and, "either jointly or separately,
thereby acquired possession and control of said claims so filed;
that they, also, purchased and settled a large amount of claims,
which might have been, but were not, filed with the register;
that, at the time of such purchases, said Georgia corporations
had actual notice that petitioners, as solicitors in that suit,
claimed reasonable compensation for such services as they rendered in behalf of the unsecured creditors of the Montgomery
and West Point Railroad Compa~iy (other than complainants)
who should come in and take the benefit of the final decree,
and, also, the benefit. of any lien upon said property that should
be declared in favor of those creditors; and that in equity they
"were the assignees of a part of each claim as filed to the
amount of the reasonable value of the services rendered in said
cause by petitioners for the benefit of each holder and owner of

CENTRAL RAILROAD v. PETTUS.
Argument for Appellees.

such claims iespetively." The prayer of the petition was, that
an account be taken of the sums thus due to them as solicitors
representing the unsecured creditors of the Montgomery and
West Point Railroad Company (except the complainants and
other named creditors with whom they had special contracts
for fees), who received the benefit of their services; that they
be declared to have a lien for the value of such services on all
the property of that company, which had come into the posses•sion of the Georgia corporations; and that so much of it as
may be necessary for that purpose be sold to meet the amounts
due them.
The register reported, on the 22d of April, .1879, that there
were then no bonds or claims in the registry, except one claim,
filed in court, as to which he did not report because no one had
appeared and requested that it be audited.
Subsequently, April 24, 1879, the Georgia corporations presented their joint petition for the removal of the suit commenced
against theni by Pettus-& Dawson and Watts & Sons-they
being the only.defendants to the petition filed by the latterto the Circuit Court of the United States, in which court it was
docketed, see 3 Woods, 620, and, after answer by the defendants and proof taken, proceeded to final decree. When the
cause was removed from the State court nothing practically
remained for determination between the parties to the record,
except the claim of appellees, citizens of Alabama, to a lien
upon the property in question, owned by the two Georgia corporations.
.r. H. C.&mple and Xr. A. R. Lawton for appellants
cited T7wmpson v. Cooper, 2 Colby, 87; Trustees v. Crreenough,
105 U. S.527; Stanton v. Ha(fleld, 1 Keene, 361; iNave v.
Weston, 3 Atk. 557; fasaa v.Codwise, 6 Johns. 300; YTwinpson v. Brown, 4 Johns. 637; Pasca's Case, 10 Wall. 483;
Grimball v. Cruse, 70 Ala. 544; Roaelius v. .Delaclaise,5 La.
Ann. 481.
Mr. W. L. Bragg for appellees cited Trustee8 v. Greenough,

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

105"U. S. 527: Stanton v. ffatfweld, 1 Keene, 371-3;

ave v.

Waton, 3 Atk. 557; Hunt v. McClanakan, 1 Heisk. 503;
Warrfwd v. Campbell, 38 Ala. 527, 531-2; Andrew8 v. .orme,
"12Conn. 444; E parie Lehman, Dud"rr & Co., 59 Ala. 631;
Wyley v. Cox, 15 How. 415; Carterv. Bennett, 6 Florida, 214,
257-8; .Martin v. Hawk, 15. Johns. 405; .Ex parte Plitt,
2 Wall. Jr. 453 ; Bradt v. Koon, 4 Cowen, 416 ; 3fumma v.
P otomac Co., 8 Pet. 281 ; Montgomery d Wet P.oint Railroad
Co. v. Branch, 59 Ala. 139 ; Vaneter E'es8 v. Yan-Meter, 3
Gratt. 148, 162; LDargan v. Waring, 11 Ala. 988; Brown v.
Bigley, 3 Tenn. Ch. 618.
MR.JusTrICE HARL&

delivered the opinion of the court. He

recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
In Ti-utees v. Greenough, 105 U. S. 527, we had occasion to
consider the general question as to what costs, expenses and
allowances could be properly charged upon a trust fund brought
under the control of court by suits instituted by one or more
persons suing in behalf of themselves and of all others having
a like interest touching the subject-matter of the litigation.
That suit was instituted by the holder of the bonds of a railroad company, on behalf of himself and other bondholders, to
save from waste and spoliation certain property in which he
and they had a common interest. It resulted in bringing into
court or under its control a large amount of money and property for the benefit of. all entitled to come in and take the benefit of the final decree. His claim to be compensated, out of the
fund or property recovered, for his personal services and private
expenses was rejected as unsupported by reason or authority.
"It would present," said Mr. Justice Bradley, speaking for the
court, "too great a temptation to parties to intermeddle in the
management of valuable property or funds in which they have
only the interests of creditors, and that, perhaps, only to a small
amount, if they could calculate upon the allowance of a salary
for their time and having all their private expenses paid." In
respect, however, of the expenses incurred in carrying on the
suit and reclaiming the property subject to the trust, the rule,
upon a careful review of the authorities, was-held to be differ-

CENTRAL RAILROADr v. PETTUS.
Opinion of the Court.

ent. After stating it to be a general principle that a trust
estate must bear the expenses of its administration, and that
where one or more d many parties having a common interest
in a trust fund takes, at his own expense, proper proceedings to
save it from destruction and to restore it to the purposes of the
trust, he is entitled to reimbursement either out of the fund
itself or by a proportional .contribution from those who accept
the benjefit of his efforts, the court said that "the same rule is.
applicable to a creditor's suit where a fund has been realized
by the diligence of the plaintiff." It was consequently held
that the complainant in that case was properly allowed his
reasonable costs, counsel fees, charges and expenses incurred in
the fair prosecution of the suit, and in reclaiming and rescuing
the trust fund and causing it to be subjected to the purposes of
the trust. Are the principles announced in that case applicable
to the one now before us?
We have seen that the purchase, by the Western Railroad
Company of the property of the Montgomery and West Point
Railroad Company, and the surrender by the latter of its charter,
left the unsecured creditors of the vendor company unprovided
for, except as the vendee company assumed and agreed to meet
the outstanding debts and obligations of the other company. But
when the present appellants became purchasers at the sale in
the suit instituted by Morris and Lowery, trustees, they asserted
their right to hold the property, originally belonging to the
Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company, freed from any
claim against it by the unsecured creditors of that company.
Those creditors resided in several States, and their claims
aggregated a large amount. Co-operation among them was
impracticable. If some did not move, the interests of all would
have suffered.. Hence Branch, Sons & Co. and their co-complainants instituted suit for the benefit of themselves and other
creditors of the same class. They, and their solicitors, bore
the entire burden of the litigation until the lien was finally declared, and the property ordered to be sold to pay dlI claims
filed pursuant to the decree. The Supreme Court of Alabama
held-conclusively as between the parties before it-that the
Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company, like any other

:12-

. OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

private corporation chartered to transact business, was a trustee
of its capital, property and effects, first, for the payment of its
creditors, and afterwards for the benefit of its stockholders;
that while it was in operation, according to the design of its
charter, its general creditors would have no specific lien, entitling them to sue in equity; yet, having left its debts unpaid,
and having distributed its capital, property, and effects among
its stockholders, or transferred them to third persons who
were not bona fdk purchasers without notice, and having become disorganized so that it could not be efficiently sued at
law, "a court of equity will pursue and lay hold of such property and effects, and apply them to the payment of what it
owes to its creditors;" and, consequently, that its creditors
had a lien, for the payment of their debts, on its road, appurtenances, and other property, superior to .that created by the
trust deed or mortgage of September 15, 1870, executed by the
Western Railroad Company. MAfontgomery & West Point
Railroad Go.'v. Branch,59 Ala. 139.
It thus appears that by the suit instituted by Branch, Sons
& Co. and others, the property was brought under the direct
control of the court to be administered for all entitled to share
the fruits of the litigation. Indeed, the suit itself was an equitable levy upon the property, and the lien arising therefrom
remained until discharged by order of the court. It is true
that the bill states that it was brought for the benefit of all
creditors who should become complainants therein. But it was
intended to be, and throughout was, conducted as a suit for the
benefit, not exclusively of the complainants, but of the class to
which they belonged. It. was so regarded by all connected
with the litigation.
It is clear that within the principles announced in T'ustees
v. Greenough, Branch, Sols & Co. ana their co-complainants
are entitled to be allowed, out of the property thus brought
under the control of the, court, for all expenses properly incurred in the preparation and conduct of the suit, including such
reasonable attorney's fees as were fairly earned in effecting the
result indicated by the final decree. And when an allowance
to the complainant is proper on account of solicitors' fees, it

CENTRAL RAILROAD v. PETTUS.
Opinion of the Cour.

may be made directly to the solicitors themselves, without any
application by theirimmediate client.
But, on behalf of appellants, it is insisted that the utmost
which the court may do is to charge upon the property such
reasonable expenses as complainants themselves incurred, and
became directly and personally bound to meet; and, since
appellees have received from the creditors. specially engaging
their services, all that those creditors agreed to pay, .it canndt
be said that the compensation demanded in respect of such.
as were not parties, otherwise than by filing their claims with.
the register, constitute a part of the expenses incurred by the
complainants. This is 'an aspect of the general question not
presented in Tu8tee8 v. Greenough.

It is true that the complainants are not shown to have incurred any personal responsibil,-y for solicitors' fees beyond
those stipulated, bVy special contract, to be paid to the appellees;
and it is equally true that there was no express contract, on
their part, to pay appellees such additional compensation as the
court might allow and charge upon the property. Yet it is
proven that when- the appellees engaged their professional services to Branch, Sons'& Co., and other complainants named in
the bill, it was understood by the latter that their solicitors
entered upon the preparation of the suit in the belief that they
had the right to demand, and would demand, such additional
compensation as was reasonable, in resp'ect of unsecured creditors who accepted the fruits .of their labors by filing claimsz
that, but for this understanding, appellees would have stipulated
for larger compensation than was agreed to be paid by their
particular clients; and that, in this belief and upon that understanding, they conducted the suit. Mr. Watts, in .his deposition, says that on the occasion of his contract for a fee with
Branch, he "stated to him that the bill which we should file,
although it should be in the name of his firm, would be for the
benefit of all the creditors of the Montgomery and West Point
Railroad Company not secured by mortgage; and that in such
cases the lawyer who filed the bill would be entitled to a fee
from all the creditors who participated in the benefit of their
labors; and that we should charge him so small a fee, with the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

expectation that we should be paid a large fee out of the fund
brought into court or condemned by our labors; and that such
fee would be allow-ed by order of the Chancery Court, and a
lien declared on the fund for the payment of such compensation; and with such understanding the paper [special contract
for fee] was signed." Mr. Pettus says: "The bonds and other
claims on whichl the bill was filed were less than a sixth of the
unsecured debts of the Montgomery and West Point Railroad
Company- of the same class, and at the time that Pettus
& Dawson were employed to bring the suit, that fact was
known and discussed between'the parties making the contract,
and it was also discussed between said parties that the suit, if
successful, would inure to the benefit of all the unsecured
creditors who might claim the benefit of the decree, and that
everybody who claimed the benefit of the services rendered
by the complainants' solicitors would be' bound to al1ow complainants' solicitors compensation out of that part of the fund
distributable to them." There is no evidence in contradiction
of these statements. Had Branch, Sons & Co., and their
co-complainants, expressly stipulated to make such reasonable
compensation, in addition to the fees they agreed to pay
their solicitors, as the court might allow, in respect of othdr
creditois filing claims, the case, it could not well be doubted,
would-come within the very letter of the decision in Tustees
v. Greenough.' .Without at all conceding that an express contract of that character would have added to the power of the
court in -the premises, it seems to us that the present case is
embraced by the reason of the rule announced in Trustees v.
Greenough. When the litigation was commenced, the unsecured
bonds of the Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company
were without any value in the financial market. That litigation
resulted in their becoming worth all, or nearly all, that they called
for. The creditors who were entitled to the benefit of the de-'
cree had only to await its execution in order to receive the full
amount of their claims; and that result was due to the skill and
vigilance of the appellees, so far as the result of litigation may,
in any case, be referred to the labors of counsel. When creditors filed their claims they had notice, by the-bill, that the suit

CENTRAL RAILROAD v. PETTUS.
Opinion of the Court.

was brought, not exclusively for the benefit of the complainants
therein, but equally for those of the same class who should come
in and contribute to the expenses of the litigation. Those
expenses necessarily included reasonable counsel fees, which,
upon every ground of justice, should be estimated with reference as well to the claims of the complainants who undertook
to protect the rights of all the unsecured creditors, as of the
claims.of those who accepted the fruits of the labors of complainants and their solicitors. We are of opinion that the appellees are entitled to reasonable compensation for their professional services in establishing a lien, in behalf of the unsecured
creditors of the Montgomery and West Point Railroad Company, upon the property described in the. suit instituted by
Branch, Sons & Co. and others; and that such compensation
should be made with reference to the amount of all claims
filed in the cause, although the evidence thereof may have been
retained in the custody of the respective creditors; excepting from such estimate or calculation not only the claims of the"
complainants named in the bill, and of other unsecured creditors who may have had special contracts with appellees, or settled with them, but, also, such claims purchased by appellants
as were not filed-for allowance under the decree. The decree
below proceeded upon this basis.
The court below did not err in declaring a lien upon the
property in question, to secure such compensati6n as appellees
were entitled to receive; for according to the law of Alabama,
by one of whose courts the original decree was rendered, and
by which law this question must be determined, an attorney-atlaw, or solicitor in chancery, has i lien upon a judgment or decree obtained for a client to the extent the latter has agreed to
pay him; or, if there has been no specific agreement for compensation, to the extent to which he is entitled to recover, viz., reasonable c6mpensation, for the services rendered. EcoparteLehman,
.Durr&f Co., 59 Ala. 631; VarfAtd v. Campbell, 38 Ala. 527.
That lien could not be defeated by the corporations which owned
the property purchasing the claims that were filed by creditors under the decree. The lien of the solicitor rests, by the
law of that State, upon the basis that he is to be regarded as

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

an assignee of the judgment or decree, to the extent of his fees,,
from the date of its rendition. This right of the solicitors is superior to any which the defendant corporations acquired, subsequent to the decree, by the purchase of the claims of unsecured
creditors.
It remains only to consider whether the sum allowed appellees was too great. We think it was. The decree -gave them
an amount equal to ten per cent. upon the aggregate principal
and interest of the bonds and coupons filed in the cause, excluding those in respect of which there was, between appellees
and complainants and others, special contracts for compensation. It is shown that appellees h & with the complainants
contracts for small retaihers and five per cent. upon the sums
realized by the suit. We perceive no reason for this discrimination against creditors who were not parties except by filing
their claims after decree. One-half the sum allowed was, under all the circumstances, sufficient.
For the error last mentioned
The decree is reversedand the cause remanded,with direction8
to nodify the decree 8o as to award to appelZee only the
sum, of .$17,580, with interestfrom .March7, 1881, with the
benefit of the lien vpon the property as established by the'
decree. Each party will pay his co8t in this court, and
one-half the co8t of printing the record.

STEELE v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF (9fIS.
Submitted Dccember 22, 1884.-Decided January 19,1885.

A private sale of old material arising from the breaking up of a vessel of war,
made by an officer of the Navy Department to a contractor for repairs of a
war vessel and machinery, is a violation of the provisions of § l541 Rev.
Stat.
The allowance of the estimated'value of such material in the settlement of

