OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

FOURTH NATIONAL BANK v. STOUT & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted January 12, 1885.-Decfded March 16, 1885.

When separate creditors unite in a suit in equity, each claiming his proportionate share of property of the common debtor in respondent's hands, and
each recovers a separate decree for his pro rata share, the jurisdiction
of this court, on appeal, is, as to each creditor's appeal, to be determined
by the amount in dispute in his case.

This was a suit in equity begun by Stout, Mills.& Co., judgment creditors of the-Yeager Miilling Company, to recover from
the Fourth National Baitk theirpro rata share of certain property of the debtor company which was in the hands of the
bank. The bank claimed a superior right to the property,
and denied its liability to account to creditors therefor. The
only questions in the case, as made by the bill, were: (1)
whether the bank held the property, or the proceeds thereof,
in trust for the creditors of the company; and if so (2) what
was the pro rata share of the complainants. No decree was
asked for any more than this share. The bank in its answer did
not seek affirmative relief.
Upon the hearing, the court found that the bank did hold
certain property in trust for the creditors, and sent the case to
a master to ascertain the share of the complainants therein.
In the interlocutory decree to this-effect, leave was given other
creditors to intervene _pro interesse uo for the recovery of their
respective pro rata shares of the trust property. Upon the
coming in of the master's report a final decree was entered"That the said complainants, and the several, intervenors
severally have and rec6ver of defendant, the. Fourth National Bank of St. Louis, the several sums hereinafter stated,
being the severalpro 'ratdshares, as ascertained by the said report of' the special master-- pro , hac -vice) in the assets of the
Yeager Milling Company, her tofore -found by the interlocu-

FOURTH NATIONAL BANK v. STOUT.
Statement of Facts.

tory decree herein of October 30, 1882, to have been wrong
fully appropriated by said Fourth National Bank, as follows:
Stout, Mills & Temple ................. $3,591 32
Kidder, Peabody & Co ................. 2,658 72
R. Hunter, Craig & Co ....... e......... 1,072 26
Anton Kufike .........................
749 66
Merchants' Bank of Canada .............
391 23
The First National Bank of Chicago.....
527 41
$8,990 60
And to have each his several execution therefor, with his
costs."
The bill was also dismissed as to all the defendants except
the bank, and as to the bank except to the extent of the decree in favor of the several creditors as above, such dismissal
being "without prejudice to any claims or rights and claims of
any defendant as against each other connected with the matters set forth in the master's report."
From this decree the bank appealed, and the appellees, the
several creditors in whose favor the decree was rendered, moved
to dismiss, because the value of the matter in dispute between
the bank and the several appellees does not exceed $5,000.
Mr.B. A. Lee for appellant.-The complainant admits an
indebtedness from the company to the bank of $120,000, and
the proof shows one still greater. The accounting on which
the decree is based undertakes to settle this question forever,
and the decree from which the appeal is taken confirms that
report and settles and adjusts the rights of all the parties.
The cases cited by respondents in their brief, in support of
their motion to dismiss, are not applicable to this case. In the
case of Schwed v. Smith, 106 U. S. 188, complainants claimed
that the whole fund arising from the sale of the attached property had been obtained, by the defendant, by. fraud, and thatthe defendant had no legal or equitable right to hold the same
as against the complainants; whereas in the case at bar, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of. the Court.

bill of- complaint proceeds upon the theory that the fund appropriated by appellant, was one in which all the creditors, including the appellant, had a common right, and tenders an
issue which made it absolutely necessary that the affirmative
rights of appellant, as against the milling company and the
other defendants, should be determined. And appellant cannot be denied its right of appeal because the court below saw
fit, after the adjustment of these rights, to dismiss the suit as
to all of the other defendants. The appellant's rights having
-been raised by the bill, cannot be taken away from it by a dismissal as to the other defendants in a case where the decree in
its entirety reaches beyond the mere adjustment of complainants' demand.
-.Mr. Fredrick -.
appellees.

Judson and

XP. Joh

. Overall for

MNfR. CHIEF JusTIcE WA=ra delivered the opinion of the court.
Ile recited the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The motion is granted on the authority of Seaver v. Bige.ow8,
5 Wall. 208, and Schwed v. Smith, 106 U. S. 188. The appellees have separate and distinct decrees in their favor depending
on separate and distinct claims. If none of the other creditors
had intervened, and the decree had been rendered in: favor of
Stout, Mills & Temple alone upon their bill as filed, in which
they sought to recover only their pro rata share of the assets
of their debtor in the hands of the bank, it certainly could not
be claimed that an appeal would lie if their recovery was for
less than $5,000. The suit was instituted, not for the whole
property in the hands of the bank, but only for the complainants' pro rata share. After the suit was begun the intervening
creditors were-allowed to come in each for As separate share
(if the" assets. On their intervention the case stood precisely as
it *ould if each creditor had brought a separate suit for his
sqparate share of the fund. The decree in favor of the several
creditors has precisely the same effect, for the -purposes of an
-apppal, that it would have had; if rendered in such separate suits.
Since the bill was dismissed as to the other parts of case

DAVIES v. CORBIN.

687

Arguments for the Motions.

withous prejudice to the rights of the defendants among themselves, the report of the master is binding on the parties only
so far as it fixes the amounts due the several appellees. In its
effect the decree binds no one except the parties to the appeal
in respewt to the right of the several appelleesto their recovery
-Dimissed.

DAVIES t. CORBIN & Another.
GAINES v. CORBIN & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR- THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted March 3, 1885.-Decided March 18, 1885.

The docketing by the defendant if-error of a cause in advance of the return
day of the writ of error, does not prevent the plaintiff in error from-doing
what is necessary while the writ is in life, to give it full effect.
Unless there is some color of a right to a dismissal, the court will not entertain a motion made to affirm.

Motions to dismiss or affirm.
A statement of the litigation in Davies v. Corbin, is contained in 112 U. S. 36, which was also a motion to dismiss.

The grounds for the motion in Gaines v. 'orbin, are substantially the same as those in the other case.
HallettPhlklips,with whom were fessrs.B.C. Brown,
.1.. "fr.
E. . imball and C. P. R.C lnd,for the motions.-I. The
writ of error in the case of -Daviesv. Corbin was nevrer perfected. The record fails to show that any bond was given.
That in the absence of a bond the writ of error will be dismissed,
has often been decided. Sage v. Railq ovi: Co., 96 U. S. 712;
_National Bank v. Omaha, Id. 712.-IL Davies and Gaines
are not entitled to prosecute writs of error. The mandamus to
the county court constituted the judgment; the orders on the

