CLAWSON v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of Facts.

CLA WSON v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPRME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF UTAH.
Argued January 5, 1885.-Decided January 19, 1883.

A territorial statute which authorizes an appeal by a defendant in a criminal
action from a final judgment of conviction ; which provides that an appeal
shall stay execution upon filing with the clerk a certificate of a judge that
in his opinion there is probable'cause for the appeal ; and further provides
that after conviction a defendant who has appealed may be admitted to bail
as of right when the judgment is for the payment of a fine only, and as matter
of discretion in other cases ; does not confer upon a defendant convicted
and sentenced to pay a fine and be imprisoned, the right, after appeal and
filing of certificate of probable cause, to be admitted to bail except within
the discretion of the court.

The appellant, having been found guilty by a jury in the
District Court for the Third Judicial District of Utah, of the
crimes of polygamy and unlawful cohabitation, charged in
separate counts of the same indictment, was sentenced, on the
conviction for polygamy, to pay a fine of $500, and to be im-

prisoned for the term of three years and six months; and, on
the conviction for unlawful cohabitation, to pay a fine of $300,
and be imprisoned six months. From the whole of the judgment an appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory, and the judge before whom the trial was had gave a
certificate that, in his opinion there was probable cause thereof. The appeal was perfected and the certificate was filed in
the proper office.
ThkAefendant, thereupon, applied to the court in which he
was sentenced, to be let to bail pending his appeal. The application-was denied, the order reciting that "the court being of
the opinion that the defendant' ought not to be admitted to bail,
after conviction and sentence, unless some extraordinary reason
therefw. -s sho*h, and there being no sufficient reason shown
in this e, it is ordered that the motion and application for
bal be, and the same is heresy, denied, and the defendant be
remanded'to the custody of the United States marshal." The
accused theii sued out an original writ of -habeas corpus from

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the Supreme Court of the Territory. In his petition therefor
he stated that he was then imprisoned and in the actual custody of the United States marshal for the Territory at. the
penitentiary in the county of Salt Lake. He, also, averred
that, upon the denial of bail by the court in which he was
tried, "he was remanded to the custody of said United States
marshal, who from thenceforth has imprisoned and still imprisons him" under said order of commitment, which "is the sole
and only cause and authority" for his "detention and imprisonment;" that "his said imprisonment is illegal" in that "he
has been and is able and now oiers to give bail pending his appeal in such sum as the court may reasonably determine;" and
that, "as a matter of right, and in the sound exercise of a legal
discretion, the petitioner is entitled to bail pending the hearing
and determination of said appeal."
The Supreme Court of the Territory overruled the application for bail, and remanded the petitioner to the custody of
the marshal. From that order the present appeal was prosecuted.
The statutes of Utah regulating bail are printed in the margfn.'
* Laws of Utah, 1878, Title VIII.
SEC. 358. Either party in a criminal action, may appeal to the Supreme
Court on questions of law alone, as prescribed in this chapter.
SEc. 360. An appeal may be taken by the defendant:
1. From a final judgment of conviction ;
2. From an order denying a motion for a new trial;
3. From an order made after judgment, affecting the substantial rights of
the party.
SEC. 362. An appeal from a judgment must be taken within one year after
its rendition, and from an order within sixty days after it is made.
SEc. 363. An appeal is taken by filing with the clerk of the court in which
the judgment or order appealed from is entered or filed, a notice stating the
appeal from the same, and serving a copy thereof upon the attorney of the adverse party.
SEc. 366. An appeal to the Supreme Court from a judgment of conviction
stays the execution of the judgment,-upn filing with the clerk of the court
in which the conviction was had, a certificate of the judge of such court, or
of a justice of the Supreme Court, that in his opinion there is probahly cause
for the appeal, but not otherwise.

CLAWSON v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

.Mrl. Wayne .fc Veigh and 31r. F. S. Richards,for appellant.
-The facts present a case novel and grave. They show a departure from an unbroken course of judicial proceeding. They
are a substantial denial of a right of appeal. If this construction of the statute is correct, a defendant, appealing, may
nevertheless be compelled to serve out his term of punishment,
and the right of appeal thus become a delusion. It is submitted that the court below was mistaken in its construction of
the act. It is clear there was nothing in the alleged offence
which precludes admission to bail. The statute did not make
it a felony. Without such statutory declaration it was only a
misdemeanor. The American doctrine is that bail shall be allowed generally if it secures the appearance of the defendant.
This applies to misdemeanors (for the penalty can be so fixed
-s to guard against escape), and to bail after conviction pending appeal (for till final conviction the prisoner is not known
to be guilty). The grounds for admitting to bail before conviction were, the nature of the offence, and the probability of
guilt. After conviction they are, under the statute of Utah,
the nature of the offence, the penalty, and the probability of
the defendant's appearance. The offence, in Utah, may fairly be
regarded as less heinous than the same offence committed elsewhere. We contend that the question for the court to consider in such cases is whether the appearance of the prisoner
can be secured, to a reasonable ceitainty, by bail, and that the
nature of the offence, the penalty, the standing of the party,
and all the circumstances attending the case and party should be
considered. In this case the appellant was on bail from the
time of his arrest till the time of his sentence-a period of
many months, and it was not alleged that he made any attempt to escape, either before or after conviction ; nor can it be
pretended that any other person charged with or convicted o1
a like offence and on bail in Utah ever attempted to escape.
The appellant offered to give bail in any sum the court might
SEc. 38S. After conviction of an offence not punishable with death, a defendant who has appealed may be admitted to bail: 1. As a matter of right
when the appeal is from a judgment imposing a fine only. 2. As a matter of
discretion in all other eases.
VOL. CXI-O

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
.pinion of the Court.

fix, and there can be no reasonable doubt that his appearance
could be thus secured. The condition of things in Utah,and
probably other Territories, requires a liberal -construction of the
law relating to bail. As in offences against the United States
the penitentiary is the only prison over which the United States
marshal has any jurisdiction, and as the appellant is not and
could not under the law be sentenced to labor, he is subjected
by detention now to the same punishment and in the same
place, as if held under and in execution of the sentence. If
the judgment is finally affirmed he will be practically subjected
to double punishment, because his case cannot be heard on its
merits in this court for several months, and might not be heard
for several years, and no part of his imprisonment pending the
appeal need be credited on the term for which he was sentenced. Bail has been allowed in Utah, pending an appeal
ever since the organization of the Territory, in all but capital
cases, following the practice in.New York and California. Ex
parte Hoge, 48 Cal. 3; People v. Folmsbee, 60 Barb. 480. The
Supreme Court of Utah treated this case as an attempt to re:view the action of the District Court. The real question before it was whether in its own judgment the appellant should
be admitted to bail. It assumed that the district judge had
exercised a discretion. No such exercise took place. The
court held that appellant must remain in custody unless he
could show some extraordinary reason for admission to bail.
It is true that this construction of the statute finds support in
Eo.parte farks, 49 Cal. 680, and Exc _parte Smallman, 54: Cal.
35; but it is erroneous. The Utah statute is borrowed from
California and the California statute from NewYork. As to
the construction of the New York act, see People v. folm8bee,
cited above.
Xi. Solicitor.-Generalfor appellee.
Mn. JUSTICE HA[LAN delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
By the laws of Utah regulating the mode of procedure in
criminal cases, it is provided, among other things, that the de-

CLAWSON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

fendant in a criminal action may appeal to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, from any order made after judgment, affecting his substantial rights. Laws of Utah, 1878, Title VIII,
ch. 1, ยง 360. To that class belonged the, order made by the
court of original jurisdiction refusing- bail,'and remanding the
accused to the custody of the marshal. But no appeal was
taken from that order. And as the accused sued out an original
writ of habeas corpus from the Supreme Court of theTerritory,
we cannot; upon the present appeal, consider whether the court
of original jurisdiction properly interpreted the local statutes
in holding that the accused "ought not to be admitted to bail,
after conviction and sentence, nuless some extraordinary reason therefor is shown." There is nothing before us for review except the order of the Supreme Court of the Territory,
which discloses nothing more than the denial of the application
to it for bail, and the remanding of the prisoner to the custody
of the marshal. That order, in connection with the petition
for habeas corpus-assuming all of the allegations of fact contained in it to be true--only raises the question, whether, under
the laws of the Territory, the accused, upon perfecting his
appeal and filing the required certificate of probable cause,
was entitled, as matter of right, and without further showing,
to be let to bail, pending his appeal from the judgment of conviction. Upon the part of the government it is insisted that
the court below had, by the statute, a discretion in the premises
which, upon appeal, will not be reviewed.
By the laws of the Territory it is provided that "an appeal
to the Supreme Court from a judgment of conviction stays the
execution of the judgment upon fling with the clerk of the
court in which the conviction was had a certificate of the judge
of such court, or of a justice of the Supreme Court, that in his
opinion there is probably cause for appeal, but not otherwise;"
also, that if this certificate is filed, "the sheriff must, if the defendant be in his custody, upon being served with a copy
thereof, keep the defendant in his custody without executing
the judgment, and detain him to abide the judgment on appeal."
Laws of Utah, 1878, p. 138. Upon the subject of bail. the
same laws provide that "a defendant charged with an offence

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

punishable with death cannot be a.dmitted to bail when the
proof of his guilt is evident or the presumption thereof great ;"
also, that "if the charge is for any other offence, he may be
admitted to bail before conviction as a matter of right;"
further, that "after conviction of an offence not punishable
with death, a defendant who has appealed may be admitted to
bail , 1, as a matter of right when the appeal is from a judgment imposing a fine only; 2, as a matter of discretion in all
other cases;" still further, that "in the cases on which the defendant may be admitted to bail upon an, appeal, the order
admitting him to bail may be made by any magistrate having
the power to issue a writ of habeas corpus." Ib.pp. 142, 146.
These statutory provisions so clearly indicate the legislative
intent that no room is left for interpretation. As the judgment
did not impose upon the appellant a fine only, his admission to
bail, pending the appeal from that judgment, was not a matter
of right, but was distinctly committed, by the statute, to the
discretion of the court or judge to whom the application for
bail may be made. The exercise of that discretion is not expressly nor by necessary implication forbidden in cases in
which the certificate of' probable cause is granted; for, by
the statute, that certificate only operated to suspend the execution of the judgment of conviction, requiring the officer
having the accused in charge to retain him in his own custody
to abide the judgment on appeal. We do not mean to say
that the granting of such a certificate is not a fact entitled to
weight in the determination of an application for bail, but
only that the statute does not make it so far conclusive of the
question of bail as to prevent the court from considering every
circumstance which should fairly and reasonably control or
affect its discretion. Whether the Supreme Court of the Territory abused its discretion in the present case is a' question not
presented by the record before us; for, it does not contain any
finding of facts, nor the evidence (if there was any apart from
the record of the trial, aid of the proceedings upon the first
application for bail) upon which the court below acted. Its
judgment denying bail cannot, therefore, be reversed, unless,
"s contended by appellant, the certificate of probable cause

BICKNELL, v. COMSTOCK.
Syllabus.

necessarily carried ivith it the right to bail, and deprived the
court of all discretion in the premises. But that construction
of the statute is not, we think, admissible.
At the argument, counsel for appellant laid stress upon the
fact, averred in the last -petition for habeas corpus, that the
order committing him to the custody of the marshal had been
executed by confining him at the penitentiary. Mel~e return of
the officer is that the accused is in his custody under and by
virtue of the order of commitment. It is not claimed that he
is treated as a convict in the penitentiary undergoing the sentence pronounced in pursuance of the judgment appealed from,
but only that the officer uses that institution as a place for the
confinement of the accused while the latter is in his custody.
Whether that action -of.the officer be legal is a question that
does not now arise; for, the application to the Supreme Court
of the Territory for habeas corpus only raised the question of
the right of the accused to be discharged, on bail, rrom all
custody whatever; and the present appeal is froni the order,
in that court, refusing such discharge, and remanding him to
the custody of the marshal;
There is no error in the record, and the judgment is
4flrned.
MR. JUSTICE MI LER

BICO
IN

and MRTh. JUSTICE FIELD dissented.

LL v. COMSTOCK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted Janupry 8, 185.-Decided January 19, 1S83.

The mutilation (without the consent and against the protest of the grantee) of
a patent for public land, by the Commissioner of the Land Office, after its
execution and transmission to the grantee, and the like mutilation of the
record thereof, do not affect the validity of the patent.

