OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

ter, in construing the Pennsylvania statutk. -lbr does it give
to persons k employed any it, as agahst the railroad company, which would not belong to any other'perscn in a simnilar
employm~nt, by others than the United States.
We are, therefore, of opinion that no question of federal
authority was involved in the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania, and the writ of error is accordingly
DigMi8ed.

DAKOTA COUNTY v. GLIDDEN.
IN ERROR TO THE CIROUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT -OF NEBEASXA.
Submitted January 5, 1885.-Decided January 26, 1885.,

While payment of the sum recovered below in submission to the judgment is
no bar to the right of reversal of the judgment when brought here by writ
of error, a compromise and settlement of the demand in suit, whereby a
new agreement is substituted in place of the old one, extinguishes the
cause of action, and leaves nothing for the exercise of the jurisdiction of
this dourt.
Evidence of facts outside of the record, affecting the proceeding of the court
in a case on error or appeal, will be received and considered, when deemed
necessary'by the court, for the purpose of determining its action.

This was a motion to dismiss. The suit was on county bonds
issued in aid of a railroad. Judgment below for the plaintiff.
The defendant brought a writ of error to reverse it. Subsequently to the judgment, the &ountysettled with the plaintiff
and other bondholders, by giving them new bonds bearing a
less rate of interest, and the old bonds, which were the cause
of action in this suit, were surrendered and destroyed. These
facts were brought before this court by affidavits and transcripts from the county records, accompanied by a motion to
dismiss the writ of error.
-Y'. R. P. Ranney and M'. J. X. WKoolworth, in support
of the motion.

DAKOTA COUNTY v. GLIDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

MrM.
A. J. RopZetom and -Mr.

f. 17ur8ton opposing.-

I. *The original bonds sued on were absolutely void. This is a
settled question in this court. They -were in all respects like
the bonds passed ppon in Diron County v. Field, 111 U. S. 83.
-II.
The comromise bonds were issued without authority and
were void for lack of power. If it be claimed that the Supreme
Court of Nebraska has recognized their validity, it is answered
that this conflicts with Dixwon County v. ield, cited above,
and that in questions involving the validity of negotiable instruments, this court is not bound by the decisins of State
courts. -PineGrove v. Taleott,-19 Wall 666; Olcott v. Superviior8, 16 Wall. 678; Gelpeke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175.-III.
The question of the validity of this compromise cannot be legitimately raised. It does not in any manner appear in the
record, and ought not to be considered by the court.-IV. The
circumstances and motives accompanying this proceeding, taken
in connection with the resolute resistance of the adjoining
County of Dixon, cannot be investigated in this court. This
constitutes a strong reason for relegating the question of the
validil y of the alleged compromise to an appropriate tribunal.
MR. JusTicn MLtnRn delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us on a motion to dismirs the writ of
error.
The ground of this motion is that since the judgment was
rendered, which plaintiff, in error now seeks to reverse, the
matter in. controversy has been the subject of compromise between ,the parties to the litigation, which is in full force and
binding on plaintiff and defendant, and which leaves nothing
of the controversy presented by the present record to be decided.
.The evidence of this compromise is not found in the record
of the case in the Circuit Court, nor in any proceedings in that
court, and it is argued against the motion to dismiss that it
cannot, for that reason, be 'considered in this court.
It coinsists of duly certified transcripts of proceedings of the
Board of Commissioners of Dakota County, who are the au.
thorized representatives of that county in all its financial mat-

OCTOBER- TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

ters, of receipts of the parties or their attorneys, and of affidavits of persons engaged in the transaction.
These are undisputed on the other-side, either by contradictory testimony, or by the brief of counsel who appear to oppose
this motion. They leave no doubt of the fact, if it is competent
for this court to consider them, that shortly after the judgment
against the county in favor of Glidden was rendered, the parties entered into negotiations to settle the controversy, which,
after due deliberation and several formal meetings of -theboard
of commissioners, resulted in such settlement.
The judgment in the case was rendered on certain coupons
for interest due on bonds issued by said county to aid in constructing railroads. These bonds bore interest at the rate of
ten per cent. per annum, and became due in the year 1896.
By the new agreement the county took up the bonds and the
coupons on which judgment was rendered, and issued new
bonds bearing six per cent. interest, the principal payable in
the year 1902. These new bonds were delivered to plaintiff
and accepted by him in satisfaction of his judgment and of his
old bonds, and these latter were delivered by him to the county
authorities and destroyed by burning.
There can be no question that a debtor against whom a judgment for money is recovered may pay that judgment and bring
a writ of error to reverse it, and if reversed can recover back
his money. And a defendant in an action of ejectment may
bring a writ of error, and failing to give a supersedeas bond,
may submit to the judgment by giving possession of the land,
which he can recover if he reverses th6 judgment by means of
a writ of restitution. In both these cases the defendant has
merely submitted to perform the judgment of the court, and
has not thereby lost his right to seek a reversal of that judgment by writ of error. or appeal. And so if, in the present
case, the county had paid the julgment in money, or had levied
a tax to raise the money, or had in any other way satisfied
that judgment without changing the rights of the parties in
any other respect, its right to prosecute this writ of error would
have remained unaffected.
But what was done was a very different thing from that.

DAKOTA COUNTY v. GLIDDEN.
Opinion of the Court.

A new agreement, on sufficient consideration, was made, by
which the judgment itself, the coupons on which it was recovered, and the bonds of which these coupons were a part, were
all surrendered and destroyed, and other bonds and other coupons were accepted in their place, payable at a more distant
date and with a lower rate of interest, with the effect of extinguishing the judgment now sought to be reversed, so that the
plaintiff in that judgment could not issue execution on it, though
there is no supersedeas bond, to secure its payment.
It is a valid compromise and settlement of a much larger
claim, but it includes this judgment necessarily. It extingui8ke
the cause of action in this case. If valid, it isa bar to any
prosecution of the suit in the Circuit Court, though we should
reverse this judgment on the record as it stands for errors
which may be found in it. To examine these errors and reverse the judgment is a fruitless proceeding, because when the
plaintiff has secured his object the relation of the parties is
unchanged, and must stand or fall' on the terms of the compromise.
It is said that to recognize this compromise and grant this
motion is to assume original instead of appellate jurisdiction.
But this court is compelled, as all courts are, to receive evidence dehor8 the record affecting their proceeding in a case
before them on error or appeal.
The death of one of the parties after a writ of error or appeal requires a new proceeding to supply his place. The trans-,
fer of the interest of one of the parties by assignment or by a
judicial proceeding in another court, as in bankruptcy or otherWise, is brought to the attention of the court by evidence outside of "the original record, and acted on. A release of errors
may be filed as a bar to the writ. A settlement of the controversy, with an agreement to dismiss the appeal or writ of error,
or any stipulation as to proceedings in this court, signed by the
parties, will be enforced, as an agreement to submit the case
on printed argument alone, within the time allowed by the
rule of this court.
This court has dismissed several suits on grounds much more
liable to the objection raised than the present case, as in the
vor. oxri-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

case of Cleveland v. Chamberlain, 1 Black, 419, where the
plaintiff in error, having bought out the defendant's interest
in the matter in controversy, and having control of both sides
of the litigation in the suit, still sought for other purposes to
have the case decided by this court. On evidence of this by
affidavits the court dismissed the writ. Similar cases in regard
to suits establishing patent rights or holding them void by the
inferior courts, as in Lord v. Teazie, 8 How. 251, 254, Wood
Paper Co. v. Heft, 8 Wall. 333, 336, have been dismissed, because the parties to the suit having settled -he-matter, so.tbat
there was no longer.a real controversy, one or both of them was
seeking a judgment of this court for improper purposes, in regard to a question which exists -nolonger between those parties.
It is hy reason of the necessity of the case that the evidence
'by which such matters are brought to the attention of the'
court must be that, not found in the transcript of the original
case, because it occurred since that record was made up.
To refuse to receive appropriate evidence of such facts for
that reason is to deliver up the court a a blind instrument for
the perpetration of fraud, and to make its proceedings by such
refusal the .means of inflicting gross injustice.
The cases and precedents we have mentioned are sufficient
to show that the proposition of plaintiff, in error is untenable.
In the- case of the Board of .iquidaio. v. Louieville &
-NashvilleRailroad Co., 109 U. S. 221, 223, a question arose
on the presentation of an order made by the authorities of the
city of New Orleans to dismiss a suit in this court in which
that city was plaintiff in error. The order was based on a
compromise between those authorities and the railroad company, which the board of liquidation intervening here alleged
to be witkout authority and fraudulent. The court here didnot disregard the compromise or the order of the city to dismiss the case, but, considering that the question of authority
in the mayor and council of the city to make the compromise,
and of the alleged fraud in making it, required the power of a
court of original jurisdiction to investigate'and decide thereon,
continued the case in this court until that was done in the
proper court. But when this was ascertained in favor of the

ANDERSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BEAL. 227
Syllabus

action of the mayor and council, the suit was dismissed here
on the basis of that compromise order.
In the case before us we see no reason to impeach the transaction by which the new bonds were substituted for the old,
and for the judgment we are asked to reverse, and
The writ of error i8 (Zsiniwed.'

ANDERSON COUNTY COMMISSIONERS v. BETL.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
Submitted January 9, 188.-Decided January 26, 1885.
Bonds issued by Anderson County, in Kansas, under, legislative authority, and
in payment of its subscription to the stock of a railroad company, after the
majority of the voters of the countyhad, at an election, voted in favor of subscribing for the stock and issuing the bonds, recited, on their face, the
wrong statute, but also stated that they were issued "in pursuance to the
vote of the electors of Anderson County, September 13, 1869." The statute
in force required that at least 30 days' notice of the election shoild be given,
and made it the dtty of the Board of County Commissioners to subscribe
for the stock and issue the bonds, after such assent of the majority of the
roters had been given. In a suit against the board on coupons due on the
bonds, brought by a bona fide holder of them, it appeared, by record evidence, that the )board made an order for the election 38 days before it was
to be held, and had canvassed the returns and certified that there was a
majority of voters in favor of the proposition, and had made such vote the
basis of their action in subscribing for the stock and issuing the bonds to
the company ; and the court directed the jury to find a verdict for the
plaintiff ; Held:
(.) The statement in the bonds, as to the vote, was equivalent to a statement
that the vote was one lawful and regular in form, and such as the law then
in force required, as to prior notice ;
(2.) As respected the plaintiff, evidence by the defendant.to show less than 80
days' notice of the election could not avail ;
(3.) The case was within the decision'lu lbw of Cooma v. Eaves, 92 U. S.
484.
(4.) The rights of the plaintiff were not affected by any dealing by the board
with the stock subscribed for;
(5.) The issue or use of the bonds not having been enjoined, for two years and

