NASHVILLE, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 261
Syllabus.

money. Others of the certificates he has sold and assigned for
value, and thereby transferred the equitable title in them to
the assignee, and authorized him to receive payment of their
amount from the District ; and the payment of that amount in
full by the District to the assignee is a discharge of so much of
its debt to the claimant. Cowdrey v. Vandenburgh, 101 U. S.
572; .Fows v. _owell Savivng Bank, 111 Mass. 285. The remaining certificates he has exchanged with the District for an
equal amount of its negotiable securities, payable on time with
interest, and he has since sold those securities for their value in
the market. The District is liable to the purchaser, either upon
those securities themselves, or upon the other bonds since taken
by him instead of some of them, and cannot be also held liable
to the original creditor for the sameamount or any part thereof.
Harri8 v. Johnston, 3 Cranch, 311; Emblin v. Dartnell,1 D.
& L. 591.
The conversation, which is found to have taken place between
the treasurer of the District and the claimant before he sold the
negoirable securities, has no tendency to prove any authority
or any intention of the treasurer to make a new or different
contract in behalf of the District.
Judgment afirmed.

NASHVILLE, CHATTANOOGA & ST. LOUIS RAILWAY COMPAN-Y v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted Jaxuuary 9, 185.-DecIded January 26, 1883.

A decree in equity, by consent of parties, and upon a compromise between
them, is a bar to a subsequent suit upon a claim therein set forth as among
the matters compromised and settled, although not in fact litigated in the
suit in which the decree was rendered.
A decree in a suit in equity by the United States against a railroad corporation
in Tennessee, appearing upon its face to have been by consent of parties,
and confirming a compromise of all claims between them before June 1,
1871, including any claim of the corporation against the United States

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
for mail service, is a bar to a suit by the corporation in the Court of Claims
for mail service performed before the war of the rebellion, although at the
time of the decree payment to it of any claim was prohibited by law, because
of its having aided the rebellion.

This was a petition in the Court of Claims to recover
compensation for carrying the United States mails between
certain places in Tennessee from March 31 to June 8,
1861. The material facts, as found by that court, were as follows:
The petitioner, a corporation under the laws of Tennessee,
on May 27, 1858, entered into contracts with the United States
in the usual form to transport the mails both ways between
Nashville and Chattanooga and between Tullahoma and
McMinnville for four years from July 1, 1858, at the yearly
compensation of $32,750, payable quarterly; carried mails
accordingly for the United States until June 8, 1861; from
that date began carrying the mails for the Confederate Government, and was also largely engaged during the rebellion in
transporting troops, supplies and munitions of war, as well as
mails for that government, and was regularly paid therefor,
but was not paid for the claim set up in this suit. The rest of
the finding of facts was in the following words:
"In 1871 a bill in equity, filed in behalf of the United States
against the Nashville and Chattanooga Railway Company, was
pending in the United States Circuit Court for the Middle
District of Tennessee, to enforce certain demands of the United
States against said company. In pursuance of an agreement
,between and by cons it of the parties to the suit, the decree
hereinafter set forth was entered in said court. The cause of
action now pending in this court was not a subject of litigation
in the Circuit Court. The company there did not set up as a
set-off or cross-action any demand for mail transportation
accruing before or since the war. And in the negotiations
which led to the decree above mentioned the claim which forms
the subject matter of this action was not mentioned by either
party. The following is the decree above described:
"Be it remembered that on the 10th day of November, 1871,
this cause was heard before the Judges of the Circuit Court of

NASHVILLE, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 263
Statement of Facts.

the United States for the IMiddle District of Tennessee, at
Nashville, upon its equity side, upon the bill of complaint, exhibits, previous proceedings, and agreement of parties, in the
.presence of R. McPhail Smith, United States district attorney,
representing the complainant, and E. H. Ewing and W. F.
Cooper, solicitors of the defendant, when it appeared to the
court that since the last term, in and by virtue of an act of
Congress in that behalf, a compromise of all the matters in
litigation between the parties had been. entered into and fully
consummated upon the following terms, stipulations and conditions, namely: The defendant, the Nashville and Chattanooga
Railway Company, for and in consideration of the return and
surrender to it, by the United States, of its road as it existed at
the time of the said return and surrender, with all the iron, crossties, bridges, and other fixtures, appurtenances and effects in
any wise appertaining and belonging to the said road, and returned, surrendered and turned over therewith, and for and in
consideration of the rolling stock, depot houses, and all other
property and effects sold and delivered by the United States to
the said defendant, and for which compensation is claimed by
said bill, and for and in consideration of the transfer and
assignment of said road, rolling stock, fixtures, appurtenances,
and all other said property and effects as aforesaid by the
United States to the said defendant,-with all the rights of the
United States therein, acquired by conquest or otherwise, and
for and in consideration of the settlement, satisfaction and discharge of all mutual claims and accounts between the parties,
as they. existed on the 1st day of June, 1871, admitted that
there was due from the defendant to the United States on that
day the sum of one million of dollars, and agreed to pay the
same as follows: One half of said sum, five hundred thousand
dollars, to be paid ten years after the 1st of June, 1871, and the
other half twenty years from said date, with interest upon the
whole of said principal sum, until paid, at the rate of four per
cent. per annum, payable semi-annually on the 1st day of
December and June, counting from the 1st of June, 1871, the
said principal and interest made payable at -,
and securea
by the bonds of the Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Con.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

pany, and a mortgage on the company's road, property, income,
and franchise.
"It was-further agreed that a final decree might be entered
in this cause, setting forth the terms of the compromise, and
providing that, in case of default for more than ninety days in
the payment of any instalment of interest as the same falls due,
or any part thereof, or of the principal debt at maturity as
aforesaid, or any part thereof, the sum in default might be collected by an execution of the decree.
"It further appearing by the admissions of the parties by
their solicitors in open court, that this compromise has been
carried out by the execution by the Nashville and Chattanooga
Railroad Company of its bonds, with interest coupons attached
as agreed upon, and by the further execution of a satisfactory
mortgage of the road, property, income and franchises to secure
the said bonds and coupons, according to the terms of the
'agreement, and the delivery thereof to, and acceptance thereof
*1y, the United States. It is, therefore, by consent of parties
ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the compromise as aforesaid be entered and made the decree of this court, and that the
rights of the parties be, and they are hereby, declared adjudged
and decreed accordingly.
"That the said Nashville and Chattaiiooga Railroad Company take their road and all its appurtenances as aforesaid, and
all the rolling stock, property and effects as aforesaid, -with all
the rights of the United States therein, free from all claim or
demand of the .United S'tates, ind subject only to the debt and
lien securecd by the said agreement of compromise and of this
cdecreved

"Ancd it is further found by the court, in accordance with the
terims of said agreement of compromise and settlement, that
there: was" due from the defendant to the United States on the
1st. day of June, 1871, for and on account of the claim set forth
in the.xni of complaint, after allowing all credits thereon for
services rendered by the defendant, to and for the use of the
complainant, for mail service, or military, transportation, or on
&ny other account, prior to the day last aforesaid, a balance
amountingo to the sum of "one million dollars, to bear interest

NASHVMLLE, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 265
Statement of YFacts.
from said day at the rate of four per cent. per annum, payable
semi-annually on tle 1st day of June and December of each
year, one half of said principal, to wit, the sum of five hundred
thousand dollars, to be paid on the 1st day of June, 1881, and
the remainder thereof, to wit, the sum of five hundred thousand
dollars, to be paid on the 1st day of June, 1891.
"It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the defendant pay to the complainant the said sum so as aforesaid
found due, with the interest thereon as the same accrues, and
that the said sums of principal and interest thereon as aforesaid, and the payment thereof as hereby ordered, stand as
a charge and lien upon the road and property of the defendant,
hereinbefore described, and upon the road, property, income
and franchises as set forth in the mortgage which has been executed in compliance with the agreement of compromise; and
that if at any time hereafter the said Nashville and Chattanooga
Railroad Company make default for the period of ninety days
in the payment of any of the instalments of interest or of
principal of said debt, or of any part thereof, after the same
shall have become due and payable according to the terms and
effect of said bonds and coupons, then the United States, on
filing with the clerk of this court any of said coupons or bonds
past due and unpaid for ninety days, shall have the right to
have issued an order for the execution of this decree to the extent of such default by the sale of the railroad and other property of the defendant as hereinbefore aescribed, subject to the
continued lien of this decree and of the said bond and mortgage representing the same debt as to the amount thereof then
remaining and not due at the time of said sale," the said sale to
be made as other sales of-real estate under judicial process as required by law and the practiceof this court to be made,and for this
purpose this cause is retained in court until otherwise ordered.
"It is further ordered that defendant pay all costs of this
cause, including the cost of thiis decree, and in default thereof
execution is hereby awarded."
Upon the foregoing facts the Court of Claims concluded as
matter of law, and adjudged, that the petition be dismissed.
19 C. C1. 476. The petitioner appealed to this court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

.i.

Cl arles F. Benjamin for appellant.

No appearance for appellee.
M .JusTicE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
The grounds on which the appellant contends that the claim
now asserted is not barred by the decree rendered in 1871 in
the former suit in the Circuit Court, resolve themselves into
these two: First. That it is found as a fact that this claim was
not litigated in that suit. Second. That it could not have been
considered in that suit, becausp the facts show that the appellant aided in sustaining the rebellion, and therefore, as matter
of law, payment to it of any claim against the United States
was prohibited by the joint resolution of March 2, 1867, No.
46, and was not authorized until the passage of the act of
March 3, 1877, ch. 105, more than five years after that decree.
14 Stat. 571; 19 Stat. 344, 362.
But the insurmountable difficulty is, that the former decree
appears upon its face to have been rendered by consent of the
parties, and could not therefore be reversed, even on appeal.
Courts of chancery generally hold that from a decree by consent no appeal lies. 2 Dan. Ch. Pract. dh. 32, ยง 1; French v.
Shotwell, 5 Johns. Ch. 555; Winchester v. Winchester, 121
Mass. 127. Although that rule has not prevailed in this court
under the terms of the acts of Congress regulating its appellate
jurisdiction, yet a decree, which appears by the record to have
been rendered by consent, is always affirmed, without considering the merits of the cause. Afortiori, neither party can
deny its effect as a bar of a subsequent suit on any claim included in the decree.
The decree of 1871 states that, " in and by virtue of an act
of Congress in that behalf, a compromise of all the matters in
litigation between the parties has been entered into and fully
consummated upon the following terms, conditions and stipulations:" that one of the considerations for the sum of
$1,000,000, thereby agreed to be paid and secured by the
Nashville and Chattanooga Railroad Company to the United

NASHVILLE, &c., RAILWAY CO. v. UNITED STATES. 267
Opinion of the Court.

States, was "the settlement, satisfaction and discharge of all
mutual claims and accounts between the parties, as they existed
on the first day of June, 1871 :" that by the terms of the compromise "there was due from the defendant to the United States
on the first day of June, 1871, for and on account of the claim
set forth in the bill of complaint, after allowing all credits
thereon for services rendered by the defendant. to and for the
use of the complainant, for mail service, or military transportation, or on any other account, prior to the day last aforesaid,
a balance amounting to the sum of one million dollars :" and
that by consent of the parties, and in accordance with the compromise, it is so decreed.
The act of Congress to which the decree refers authorized
the Secretary of War, with the advice of the counsel for the
United States in that suit, "to compromise, adjust and settle
the same upon such terms, as to amount and time of payment,
as may be just and equitable, and best calculated to protect the
interests of the government."
Act of March 3, 1871, ch. 109,
16 Stat. 473. The terms of the compromise, as set forth in
and confirmed by the decree, expressly included all credits for
services rendered by the railroad company to and for the use
of the United States, for mail service or on any other account,
prior to June 1, 1871. The claim now asserted was for such a
service, and was not the less within the terms and effect of the
compromise and decree, because the law at that time prohibited
its payment to the railroad company.

Judgment affirved.

