CASES ADJUDGED
I

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.

COLE v. LA GRANGE.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE U

ED STATES FOR THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
Submitted December 8, 1884.-Decided January 5,1885.

The general grant of legislative power in the Constitution of a State does not
authorize the legislature, in the ecxerise either of the right of eminent
domain, or of the right of taxation, to take private property, without the
owner's consent, for any but a public object.
The legislature of Missouri has no constitutional tower to authorize a city to
issue its bonds by way of donation to a private manufacturing corporation.

This was an action to recover the amount of coupons for
interest from January 1, 1873, to January 1, 1880, attached to
twenty-five bonds, all exactly alike, except in their serial numbers, and one of which was as follows:

No. 23.

"United States of America:
State of Missouri, City of La Grange.

$1,000.

"Know all men by these presents, that the City of La
Grange doth for a good, sufficient and valuable consideration
promise to pay to the La Grange Iron and Steel Company or
VOl. cni-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

bearer the sum -of one thousand dollars in current funds, thirty
years after the date hereof, at the third National Bank, City of
New York, together with interest thereon at the rate of eight
per cent. per annum, payable annually in current funds on-the
first day of each January and July ensuing the date hereof on
presentation and surrender of the annexed interest, coupons at
said Third National Bank.
"This bond is issued under an ordinance of the City Council
of the said City of La Grange, passed and approved September
22d, 1871, under and in pursuance of an act of the legislature
of the State of Missouri, entitled 'An act to amend an act entitled an act to incorporate the City of La Grange,' approvel
March" 9th, 1871, which becamie a law and went into force and
effect from and after its said approval.
"This bond to be negotiable and transferable by delivery
thereof.
"In testimony whereof the City Council of the City of La
Grange hath hereunto caused to be affixed the 6orporate seal
of said city and these presents to be signed by the mayor and
countersigned by the clerk of the city council of said city this
14th day of December, 1871.
J. A. HA.Y, Mayor.
[sEAI.]
R. McCn7EsN-.y, Clerk."

The petition alleged that the city of La Grange on December 14, 1871, executed the twenty-five bonds, and delivered
them to the La Grange Iron and Steel Company, under and
.by virtue of the authority contained in section I of article 6 of
the city charter, as amended by an act of the legislature of
Missouri, approved March 9, 1871 (which section, as thus
amended, was set forth in the petition, and is copied in the
margin),* and under and by virtue of an ordinance of the city,
* SncT. 1. The city council shall have power to levy and collect taxes upon all
real and personal property within the limits of the corporation, not to exceed
one half of one per centum per annum upon the assessed valuation thereof, in
any manner to be provided by ordinance not repugnant to the Constitution of
the State of Missouri. And whenever twenty-five persons, who are taxpayers
and residents of the City of La Grange, shall petition the city council, setting
forth their desire to donate or subscribe to the capital stock of any railroa4,

COLE v. LA GRANGE.
Statement of Facts.

dated September 22, 1871, by which an election was authorized
to be held in the city on October 4, 1871, to test the sense of
the people of the city upon the question of issuing the bonds;
that, in compliance with the ordinance and with the .city
charter,, an election was held, at which the proposition was
adopted by a two-thirds vote of the qualified voters; and that
on September 1, 1872, the plaintiff bought the twenty-five
bonds, for value, relying upon the recitals on their face, and
without knowledge of any irregularity or defect in their issue:
of all which the defendant had notice; by means whereof the
defendant became liable and promised to pay to the plaintiff
the sums specified in the coupons, according to their tenor
and effect.
The answer denied all the allegaticns of the petition; and for
further answer averred that the act of the legislature mentioned in the petition, approved March 9, 1871, attempted to
give, and in terms did give, to the city authority to make
gifts and donations to private manufacturing associations and
corporations; that the city council, purporting to act under
such authority, by an ordinance -adopted -September 22, 1871,
(which was referred to in the answer and is copied in the
margin*), did submit to a vote of the citizens a proposition to
or manufacturing company, or for the improvement of any road leading into
the city, or for increasing the trade, travel- or commerce thereof, or for securing the location and maintenance of any manufacturing company, stating the
terms and conditions on which they desire such donation or subscription to be
made, it shall be the duty of the city council to order an election to be held, at
which the qualified voters of said city shall be allowed to vote; and if it shall
appear from the returns of said election that two-thirds of the resident taxpayers have voted in favor of such donation or subscription, it shall be declared carried by proclamation of the mayor, and a special tax of not exceeding two per centum per annuni may be levied on the assessed value of real and
personal property to pay such donation or subscription, and the city council
shall, under the hand of the mayor and attested by the seal of said city, issue
bonds of the City of La Grange to the amount of the capital stock so subscribed, or to the amount of the donation made to any such enterprise, or for
any purpose hereinbefore specified; which said bonds shall be conditioned upon
the proposition submitted and voted upon at the election held for that purpose,
and said bonds shall not bear a greater rate of interest than ten per centum
per annum.
* Be it Ordained by the City Council of the City of La Grange as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

give or donate to the La Grange Iron and Steel Company, a
private manufacturing company, formed and established for
the purpose of carrying on and operating a rolling-mifll, the
sum of $200,000; that, in accordance with that ordinance, the
bonds of the city wera issued, with interest coupons attached,
a part of which were those sued on; that the bondnd. coupons were issued to said manufacturing company, which was
a strictly private enterprise, formed and prosecuted for the
purpose of private gain; and which had nothing whatever of
a public character; and that it was incompetent for the legislature to giant authority to cities or towns to make donations
and issue bonds to mere private companies or associations
having no public functions to perform, and the act of the
legislature and the ordinance of the city. were void; Wherefore
the bonds and coupons were issued without any legal authority,
and were wholly void.
To this answer the plaintiff filed a general demurrer, which
was overruled by the court, and the plaintiff electing to stand
by his demurrer, judgment was entered for the defendant. 19
Fed. Rep. 871. The plaintiff sued out this writ of error.
31f. George A. Sanders for plaintiff in error.-The important questions in this case have been settled both in the State
That upon petition of John M. Glover and tweuty-five other taxpayers of said
city, that an election be and is hereby ordered to be held at the city hail in said
city on Wednesday, the fourth day of October next, to test the sense of the
legal voters of said city on the propriety of the s~aid
city donating ten acres of
land, and two hundred thousand dollars in city bonds, to be due in thirty years
from date, and to bear interest at the rate of eight per cent per annum, the
interest to be paid semi-annually at New York or Boston to Isaac R. Adams
and associates, in consideration that the said Isaac R. Adams and associates
will build and construct at the City of La Grange a rolling iron mill of sufficient capacity to roll twenty-five thousand tons of railroad iron per annum,
the said mill *to be built within one year from the date of the election
herein ordered, and the said company shall operate and maintain the same at
the City of La Grange for the term of twenty years from its completion, in accordance with the memorandum and agreement here filed of this date; and on
the ballot of each voter shall be written or printed "For the donation." or
"Against the donation." Adopted September 22d, 1871.
. J. A. HAY, Mayor.

COLE 'v. LA GRANGE.
Argument for Plaintiff in Erior.

and Federal courts. A construction of section '14, 'article 11,
'of the Constitution of Missouri was given in State v. Curatoraof
Stae, 57 Missouri, 178, in which an injunction was sought, to prohibit the issue of $75,000 of bonds by Phelps County, in aid of
the 9chool of Mines and Metallurgy, at Rolla, Missouri, and the
injunction was granted because there had been n6 election and
no assent of two-thirds of the voters, which is the all-important
and only restriction in that section of the Constitution. Courts
have no power to render legislative acts void, unless there is
express constitutional prohibition to the enactment. In case
of doubt the act must be sustained. St. Ioui8 v. &riwold,58
Missouri, 175; Van Hodtruip v. .Aadi8on, 1 Wall. 291; Richard v. ,Raymond, 92 Ill. 612. The defendant's acts under the
powers granted to it n9t being ultra vire, it is estopped from
denying that power. National Bank v. 3Matthew8; 98 U. S.
621, 629; Hitchcock v. Galveston, 96 U. S. 341; Coloma v.
Eavea, 92 U. S. 484-, 493. As the issue of the bonds was regular and in exact accordance with the requirements of the statute, the sole question in the case is whether the legislature had.
constitutional power to authorize . their issue. It is claimed
that this is settled adversely to plaintiff by Iqan Association
v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 655; but, we submit that the dissenting
opinion of Mr. Justice Clifford better accords with later decisions. See County of Livingston v. -Darlington,.01 U. S. 407.
The rule well settled noW seems to be: -, That courts cannot
nullify an act of the 'State -legislature on the vague ground
that they think it opposed to a general spirit supposed to pervade or underlie the Constitution, where neither the terms nor
the implications of the instrument disclose any such restrictions." Walker v. Cincinnati, 21 Ohio, 41. The Supreme
Court of Missouri refused to decide what purposes were public and what private. The city of I. Grange decided this
by its vote for the issue of the bonds. The Constitution having imposed no limit, the authority of the legislature is
practically absolute to give or refuse such powers to municipal
organizations. Providence Bank v. Billing8,4 Pet. 514; Cader v. Bull, 3 Dall. 385; Pine Grove v. Talcot, 19 Wall. 666,
677. If, however, it is held that the question of a public pur-

-OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

pose is to enter into this case, then we insist that these bonds
were issued for such a corporate ,purpose as constitutes a public purpose. A public purpose is one that promotes the general
prosperity and welfare of the community. JHackett v. Ottawa.
99 U. S. 86, 94. In that case bonds issued to a manufacturing
company were held good. In Livingston v. Darlington,above
cited, bonds issued to aid in the erection of buildings to be
given by the county to a Reform University were held good.
as issued for a public corporate purpose. How do those case,
differ from this? See also Taylor v. Thornpson, 42 Illinois, 9;
Chicago & Iowa ]?ailroadv. Pinckney, 74 Illinois, 277, 279.
Mr. -David Wagner for defendant in error.
MR. JUSvMcE G.&Y delivered the opinion of the court.

He

recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The general grant of legislative power in the Constitution of
a State does not enable the legislature, in the exercise either of
the right of eminent domain, or of the right of taxation, to
take private property, without the owner's consent, for any but a
public object. Nor can the legislature authorize counties, cities
or towns to contract, for private objects, debts which must be
paid by taxes. It cannot, therefore, authorize them to issue
bonds to assist merchants or manufacturers, whether natural
persons or corporations, in their private business. These limits
of the legislative power are now too firmly established by judicial decisions to require extended argument upon the subject.
In Loan Association v. Toveka, 20 Wall. 655, bonds of a
city, issued, as appeared on their face, pursuant to an act of the
legislature of Kansas, to a manufacturing corporation, to aid it
in establishing shops in the city for the manufacture of iron
bridges, were held by this court to be void, even in the hands
of a purchaser in good faith and for value. A like decision was
nmade in Parkersburgv. Brown, 106 U. S.487. The decisions
in the courts of the States are to the same effect. Allen v.
Jay, 60 Mfaine, 124; Lowell v. Boston, 111 Mass. 454; Tfeismer v. Douglas, 64 N. Y. 91; In re Eureka Co., 96 N. Y. 42 ;
Bissell v. .Znkakee, 64 Illinois, 249 ; English v. Peope, 96 II-

COLE v. LA GRANGE.
Opinion of the Court.

linois, 566; Central Branch Unio:n Pa

-R
1?ailroaJv. Smith,

23 Kansas, -745.
We have been referred to no opposing decision. The cases
of Ha%ett v. Ottawa, 99 U. S. 86, and Ottawa v. lrational
Bank, 105 U. S. 342, were decided, as the Chief Justice pointed
out in Ottawg 7. Carey, 108 U. S. 110, 118, upon the ground
that the bonds in suit appeared on their face to ha've been issued for municipal purposes, and were therefore valid in the
hands of 6onaXde holders. In Livngdton..v. Darlngtm, 101
U. S. 407, the town subscription was towards the establishment
of a State Reform School, which was undoubtedly a public
purpose, and the question in controversy was whether it was a
corporate purpose, within the meaning of the Constitution of
Illinois. In Burlington v. Beadley, 94 U. S.310, the grist mill.
held to be a work of internal improvement, to aid in cons'ruct.
ing which a town might issue bonds under the statutes of Kansas, was a public mill which ground for toll for all customers.
See Oeborne v. Adama County, 106 U. S.181, and 109 U. S.'I;
Blair v. Cuming County, 111 U. S. 363. Subscriptions and
bonds of' towns and cities, under legislative authority, to aid in
establishing railroads, have been sustained on the same ground
on which the delegation to railroad c6rporations of the sovereign right of eminent domain has been justified, the accommodation of .public travel. Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wall. 654;
Queensbury v. Culver, 19 Wall. 83; Loan Aesociation v. Topeka, 20 Wall. 661, 662; Taylor v. Tjasilanti, 105 U. S.60.
Statutes authorizing towns and cities to par bounties to soldiers have been upheld, because the raising'of'soldiers is a public duty. Hiddleton v. .ullica, 112 U. S. 433; Taylor v..
Ronzp8on, 42 Illinois, 9; Hilish v. Catherman, 64- Penn.St.
154; State v. Richland, 20 Ohio St. 362; Agawam v. Hamp-.
den, 130 Mass. 528, 534.
The express provisions of the Constitution of Missouri tend
to the same conclusion. It begins with a Declaration of Rights,
the sixteenth article of which declares that "no private property ought to be taken or applied to' public use without just
compensation." This clearly presupposes that private property
cannot be taken for private use. St. Loui8 County Court v.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Gdrswold, 58 -Missouri, 175, 193,; 2 Kent Com. 339 note, 340.
Otherwise, as it makes no provision for compensation except
when the use is public, it would permit "privateproperty to be
taken or appropriated for private use without any compensation whatever. It is true that this article regards the right 6f
eminent domain, and not the power to .tax; for the taking of
property by taxation requires no other compensation than the
taxpayer receives in being protected by the government to the
support of which he contributes. But, so far as respects, the
use, the taking of private property by taxation is subject to the
same limit as the taking by the right of eminent domain. Each
is a taking by the State for the public use, and not to promote
private ends.
The only other provisions of the Constitution of Missouri,
having any relation to the subject; are the following sections of
the eleventh article:
" SEcrr. 13. The credit of the State shall not be given or loaned
in aid of any person, association or corporation; nor shall the
State hereafter become a stockholder in any corporation or association, except for the purpose of securing loans heretofore
extended to certain railroad corporations by the State.
' S.ac. 14. The general assembly shall not authorize any
county, city or town to become a stockholder in, or loan its
credit to, any company, association or corporation, unless two
thirds of the qualified voters of such county, city or town, at
a regular or- special election to be held therein, shall assent
thereto."
Both tlese sections are restrictive, and not enatling. The
thirteenth section peremptorily denies to the State the power of
giving or lending its credit to, or becoming a stockholder in,
any corporation whatever. The aim of the fourteenth'section
is to forbid the legislature to authorize counties, cities or towns,
without the assent of the taxpayer% to become stockholders in,
or to lend their credit to, any corporation, however public its
object; State v. C?irator State Unziverity, 57 Missouri, 178;
not to permit them to be authorized, under any circumstances,
to raise or. spend money for private purposes.
It is averred in the answer, and, ddmitted b the dernurrer,

HEAD v. AMOSKEAG MANUFACTURING COMPANY.

9

Syllabus.
that the La Grange Iron and Steel Company,-.to which the
bonds were issued, was "a private manufacturing company,
formed and established for the purpose of carrying on and operating a rolling-mill," and "was a strictly private enterprise,
formed and prosecuted for the purpose of private gain, and
which had nothing whatever of a public character." The ordinance referred to shows that the mill was to manufacture railroad iron; but that is no more i public use than the manufacture of iron bridges, as in the Topeka Case, or the making of
blocks of stone or wood for paving streets. There can -be no
doubt, therefore, that the act of the legislature of Missouri is
unconstitutional, and that the bonds, expressed to be issued in
pursuance of that act, are void upon their face.
As for this reason the action cannot be maintained, it is
needless to dwell upon the point that the. answer demurred to,
besides- the special defence of the unconstitutionality of the act,
contains a general denial of the allegations in the petition.
That point was mentioned and passed over in the opinion of
the Circuit Court, and was not alluded to in argument here, the
parties in effect assuming the general denial in the answer to
have been withdrawn or waived, and the case submitted for
decision upon the validity of the special defence.

Judgment '{ffirmed.

HEAD v. AMOSKEAG MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
fn 'ERROR

TO

THE

SUPREME

COURT

OF

THE

STATE'

OF

NEW

RA PSHIRE.
Argued December.16, 17, 1884.-Declded January 5, 1885.

A statute of a State, auth'orizing any person to erect and maintain on his own
land a water mill and mill-dam upon and across any stream not navigable,
paying to the owners of lands flowed daniages assessed in a judicial proceeding, does not deprive them of their property without due process of
law, in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the

United States.

