PRENTICE v. STEARNS.
Statement of Facts.

a judgment against the latter to declare and determine with
conclusive force the existence and limits of the duty to be enforced against its guarantor and substitute.
In any view we are justified in taking of the nature of the
controversy disclosed by the pleadings in this proceeding, we
conclude that both the original defendants are necessary parties to its determination, and that, consequently, the plaintiff
in error was not entitled to remove the suit from the jurisdiction of the State court.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is accordingly

AJ/irmed.

PRENTICE v. STEARNS.
nq

ERROR TO THE CRoUIT COURT OF THE UTED STATES FOR THE
DXSTRICT OF MaiNESOTA.
Submitted January9, 1885.-Decided March 2.1885.

In the absence of a bill of exceptions, setting forth evidence, no error can be
assigned in respect to facts found by the court when the parties waive a
trial by jury.
In a suit at law to recover possession of realestate the court cannot take note
of facts, which, in equity, might afford ground for relieving the plaintiff,
by reforming the description in his deed.
A. deed from an Indian chief to A, in 1856, of a tract described by metes.
and bounds, and further as "being the land set off to the Indian Chief
'Buffalo ' at the Indian Treaty of September 80, 1854, and was afterwards
dis' osed of by said Bvffalo to said A, and is now recorded with the government documents," does not convey the equitable interest of the chief in another
tract described by different metes andbounds, granted to the said chief by
a subsequent patent in 1858, in conformity with the said treaty, in such
manner that an action at law may be maintained by A or his grantee for
recovering possession of the same.

This was an action at law to recover possession of real estate
and damages for its detention, the plaintiff in error -being
plaintiff below, and a citizen of Ohio, the defendant being a
citizen of Minnesota.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

The real estate in controversy was describea in the complaint
as an undivided one-half of real estate situated in the county
of St. Louis and State 6f Minnesota, viz.: Lot eighty-two (82)
and the east half (E. 1) of lot eighty-four (84), in block two
Duluth proper, 3d division, according to the recorded
(2), in.
plat thereof on file in the office of the register of deeds of St.
Louis County, State of Minnesota.
The question was upon the plaintiff's title.
The action was tried by the court, the intervention of a jury
having been waived by the parties, and the findings of fact
and conclusions of law were separately stated.
The facts found were as follows:
1. That the treaty made and concluded on the 30th day of
September, A.D. 1854, between the United States and the Chippewa Indians, of Lake Supeiior and the Mississippi, whereby
said Indians ceded to the United States certain territory lying
adjacent to the head waters of Lake Superior, contained the
following provision, viz.: "And being desirous to provide for
some of his connections who have rendered his people important services, it is agreed that Chief Buffalo may select one
section of land at such place in the ceded territory as he may
see fit, which shall be reserved for that purpose and conveyed
by the United States to such person or persons as he may
direct."
2. That said treaty was ratified, pursuant to a resolution of
the United States Senate passed on the 10th day of January,
1855, by the President of the United States on the 29th day
of January, 1855.
3. That the said Chief Buffalo, pursuant to said provision of
said treaty, and on the day of the date thereof, to wit, September
30, 1854, by an instrument of writing, executed by him and
filed in the office of the United States Commissioner of Indian
Affairs at Washington, D. C., selected the land to be conveyed
thereunder by the United States, and appointed the persons to
vhom it was to be conveyed, as follows, viz.: After reciting
I hereby select a tract
the foregoing provision of said treaty, '.
of land one mile square, the exact boundary of which may be
defined when the surveys are made, lying on the west shore of

PRENTICE v. STEARNS.
Statement of Facts.

St. Louis Bay, Minnesota Territory, immediately above and ad-

joining Minnesota Point, and I direct that patents be issued for
the same, according to the above-recited provision, to Shaw-BrawSkung, or Benjamin Armstrong, my adopted son; to Matthew
May-Dway-Gwon, my-nephew: to Joseph May-Dway-Gwon
and Antoine May-Dway-Gwon, his sons, one-quarter section to
each." That the land Buffalo had in view and intended in
such designation is not included, nor any part thereof, in the
patents subsequently issued by the United States to the relatives of said Buffalo named above, which patents are hereinafter referred to.
4. That said Matthew, Joseph, and Antoine, under date of

September 17, 1855, executed and delivered to said Armstrong
an instrument assigning to him their right, title, and interest
under said appointment and selection of Chidf Buffalo.
5. That said Benjamin G. Armstrong and wife, on Septem-

ber 11, 1856, made, .executed, a6knowledged, and delivered to
the plaintiff herein, a deed of conveyance, a copy of which is
hereto attached, marked exhibit "B," and made a part of these
findings. That a large portion of the land embraced within
the courses and distances of said deed is covered by water, and
that portion which is not covered by water in said description
is land which Chief Buffalo had in view and intended to embrace in his selection as aforesaid, but does not embrace the
land involved in this suit.
6. That said deed from Armstrong to plaintiff was duly
recorded in the County of St. Louis, Territory of Minnesota,
on the 4th day of November, A.D. 1856.
7. That the piece or parcel of land, the title to which is in-

volved in this action, is situated in said County of St. Louis,
Territory (now State) of Minnesota.
8. That the said Benjamin G. Armstrong and wife, on the
27th day of August, 1872, executed and delivered to the plain-

tiff the confirmatory deed, a copy of which is hereto attached
and marked exhibit "0," and made a part of these findings,

which deed was duly recorded in the County of St. Louis, State
of Minnesota, September 2, 1872.
9. That the tract of land which Chief Buffalo had designated

438

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

.as his sel~otion on the day of the treaty did not correspond
with the section lines when the land came to be surveyed into
sections, and the United States Land Department decided that
the.Buffalo designation of the land was too indefinite to enable
patents to be issued therefor, and furthermore the land thus
designated by Buffalo, was found to be occupied by, and was
thereby claimed by certain Indian traders under said treaty,
and after a lengthy correspondence and investigation in respect
thereto, by the'Interior and Indian Departments, the, matter
.was finally adjusted by said relatives withdrawing their claim
to the land so designated by Buffalo and consenting to accept
other land in lieu thereof to be selected by the Indian Department; whereupon the Commissioner of Indian Affairs by its
agent, and by the direction of the said Interior Department, and
with the approval of the President, and assent of the said relatives named as aforesaid b~y said Buffalo, selected certain other
lands aggregating 682 acres and situated in four different
government sections, as shown by diagram hereto attached and
marked exhibit 1D," and apportioned the same among said
relatives. A copy of the report of the Secretary of the Interior
to the President upon the final sele6tion of said land is hereto
attached, marked exhibit " E," and made a part of these findings. That on the 23d day of Octoberi 1858, patents for the
land so apportioned were duly issued to them by the United
States, one of which patents was issued to said Armstrong and
a copy of which is hereto attached and marked exhibit "F."
That the land involved in this suit is a part of the land em.braced in said patent to said Armstrong.
10. That the chief, Buffalo, died in the month of October,
1855, and before the land conveyed by the government to his
appointees under said provision of said' treaty was finally sellected, and without any action on his part under said provision
of said treaty subsequent to the appointment of the persons to
Whom the land was to be conveyed aild the conditional selection of the land on the 30th of September, 1854,'as aforesaid.
11. That the United States government surveys of the lands
ceded by said treaty of September 30, 1854, to the United
States had not been made at the date of. the said deed from

PRENTICE v. STEARNS.
Statement of Facts.

Armstrong to plaintiff, and were not made until the year following the date thereof.
12. That said Armstrong and wife by warranty deed duly
executed and reconded, dated October' 22, 1859, conveyed an
undivided half of the lands conveyed to him and the other appointees of Chief Buffalo aforesaid, by the United States by
sail patent of October 23, 1858, to Daniel S.'Cash.and James
H. Kelly.
13. That after said patents were issued to said appointees as
aforesaid, the said Matthew, Joseph and Antoine, on March 13,
1859, executed deeds of conveyance of the land which ha. been
so patented to them respectively, to the said Armstroni,'; which
deeds were duly recorded in said St. Louis County, May 17,
1859; and that the said Armstrong and wife, on the 31st day
of August, 1864, for a valuable consideration, executed and
delivered their deed of conveyance of an undivided half of the
land so patented to him and the said -Mattlew, Joseph, and
Antoine, to John M. Gilman, which conveyance was duly
recorded in said St. Louis County, September 12, 1864, a copy
of which conveyance is hereto attached and marked exhibit
"G." That said Gilman took said conveyance without any
actual notice of said deed from said Armstrong to the plaintiff
of September 11, 1856, or that plaintiff claimed an interest in
the land so conveyed to him, said Gilman.
14. That the defendant herein claims title to the _piece or
parcel of land in controversy as a grantee of said Gilman and
under and through said deed to said Gilman of August 31,
1864.
15. That the undivided one-half of the property described in
the complaint herein is worth the sum of ten thousand dollars

($10,000).
And the following conclusions of law thereupon:
I. That the appointment, of persons to whom -the United
States were to convey the section of land reserved by the said
provision of said treaty, made by the said Chief Buffalo on the
30th day of September, 1854, was a valid and sufficient appointment under said provisi6n, and upon the ratification of
said treaty vested in the said Benjamin .G. Armstrong and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

other appointees named such an interest as the treaty gave to
the land so reserved.
II. That the patent of the United States to Armstrong, and
his acceptance of it, is as a valid execution of the treaty on that
subject.
III. That the deed from said Armstrong to plaintiff of date
of September 11, 1856, is, in its execution, acknowledgment and
recording a valid and sufficient deed and its record is constructive notice of its contents.
IV. That the description in the .deed of said Armstrong to
plaintiff of September 11, 1856, is insufficient to convey his
interest in or title to any other' or different tract of land to
which he' might have "been entitled under said treaty than the
specific tract described by metes and bounds therein, and that
said deed is ineffectual as' a conveyance to plaintiff of any interest or title except such as said Armstrong had in or to the
land -therein particularly described, and that plaintiff thereunder tooklno title to the land -for the possession of which this
action is brought.
V. That the quit-claim deed from said Armstrong to said
John M. Gilman, of August 31, 1864, conveyed to the said Gilman such interest and no more as said Armstrong had in the
land therein described at the date of said deed.
-' "VI. That the plaintiff is not entitled to recover in this action,
and judgment is ordered for the defendant for his costs and
disbursements.
The body of the deed from Armstrong and wife, dated September 11, 1856, fo the plaintiff, was as follows:
"This indenture, made the eleventh day of September, in the
year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-six, between Benjamin G. Armstrong and Charlotte Armstrong, wife of said Benjamin G., of the county of La Pointe, State of Wisconsin, of
the first part, and "Frederick Prentiss, of Toledo, Ohio, of the
second part, witnesseth, that the said parties of the first part,
for and in consideration of the sum of eight thousand dollars,
to us in hand paid by the said party of the second part, at or
before the ensealing and delivery of these presents, the receipt
whereof is hereby acknowledged, have remised, released and

PRENTICE v. STEARNS.
Statement of Facts.

quit-claimed, and by these presents do remise, release and quitclaim, unto the said party of the second part, and to his heirs
and assigns forever, one undivided half of all the following
described piece or parcel of land, situate in the county of St.
Louis, and Territory of Minnesota, and known and described
as follows, to wit: Beginning at a large stone or rock at the
head of St. Louis River Bay, nearly adjoining Minnesota Point,
commencing at said rock and running east one mile, north one
mile, west one mile, south one mile to the place of beginning,
and being the land set off to the Indian Chief 'Buffalo,' at the
Indian treaty of September 30, A.D. 1851, and was afterwards
disposed of by said 'Buffalo' to said Armstrong, and is now
recorded with the government documents, together with all and
singular the tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances thereunto belonging, or in anywise appertaining; and the reversion
and reversions, remainder and remainders, rents, issues and
profits thereof; to have and to hold the aforesaid premises, with
all the privileges and appurtenances to the said premises belonging or appertaining, unto the said party of the second part, his
heirs and assigns forever. And also all the estate, right, title,
interest, property, possession, claim and demand whatsoever,
as well in law as in equity, of the said parties of the first part,
of, in, or to, the above described premises, and every part and
parcel thereof, with the appurtenances. And the said Armstrong and his wife, party of the first part, for themselves and
their heirs, executors, and administrators, do covenant, promise, and agree to and with the said party of the second part,
his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, that they have
not made, done, committed, executed, or suffered any act or
acts, thing or things, whatsoever, whereby, or by means
whereof, the above described premises, or any part thereof,
now are, or at any time hereafter, shill, or may be impeached,
charged, or incumbered, in any manner or way whatsoever.
"In witness whereof, the said parties of the first part have
hereunto set their hands and seals the day and year first above
written."
And the deed of confirmation made by Armstrong and wife
to the plaintiff August 29, 1872, was as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

"Whereas, on the eleventh day of September, in the year
one thousand eight hundred and fifty-six, we, Benjamin G.
Armstrong and Charlotte Armstrong, wife of aforesaid Benjamin G. Armstrong, conveyed by a quit-claim deed to Frederick
Prentice, of Toledo, Ohio, the undivided one-half part of all
our interest in certain lands, situated at or near the head of St.
Louis Bay, and intended to describe our interest in what is
known as the Chief Buffalo tract at the head of St. Louis Bay,
Minnesota Territory, and then believing that the description in
said deed would cover, or was the tract that would be patented
to. us by the United States of America, according to said
Buffalo's wishes, and a contract we held from the heirs of said
Buffalo. But to definitely fix upon the lands designed to be
conveyed, it was stated in said deed to be the land set off to the
Indian Chief Buffalo, at the Indian treaty of September
thirtieth, in the year one thousand eight hundred fifty-four.
And further, I, the said Armstrong, gave a contract on the
tenth day of September, in the year one thousand eight hundred and fifty-six, to .the said Frederick Prentice, binding
ourselves and heirs to give said Frederick Prentice any further
writing or instrument he might require.
"And on the first day of July, in the year one thousand
eight hundred and fifty-seven, I, Benjamin G. Armstrong and
Charlotte Armstrong, agreed to, and did sell to Frederick
Prentice the other one-half of said Buffalo tract, for which
said Frederick Prentice paid us something over two thousand
($2,000) dollars, and since that time has paid us to our full
satisfaction for the whole property. And we agreed to, and
by these pyosents confess payment in full for the whole bf the
above tract, in compliance of the first deed for the one undivided half, and the carrying out of the contract to sell the balance July first, in the yegr one thousand eight hundred and fiftyseven. This is intended to cover the land deeded by us to the
said Prentice in the deed given on the eleventh day of September, eighteen hundred and fifty-six, and recorded in liber A of
deeds, page 106, at Duluth, State of Minnesota, and the land
included in the contract of the first of July, eighteen hundred
and fifty-seven, and intended to cover the lands as described in

PRENTICE v. STEARNS.
Statement of Facts.

patents from the United States of America to Benjamin G.
Armstrong, Matthew May-Dway-Gon, Joseph May-Dway-Gon
and Antoine May-Dway-Gon, and described as follows: To
Benjamin G. Armstrong the west half of the southwest quarter, and the lot number five (5) of section twenty-seven, and
lot number (3) of section thirty-four, containing together
(182 62-100) one hundred and eighty-two and sixty-two onehundredths acres. And to Joseph May-Dway-Gon the southeast quarter of section twenty-eight, containing one hundred
and sixty acres. And Antoine May-Dway-Gon the east half
of the northeast quarter of section twenty-eight, and the west
half of the northwest quarter of section twenty-seven, containing one hundred and sixty acres. And to Matthew May-DwayGon the southwest quarter of section twenty-two, containing
one hundred and sixty acres, all of the above being in town
fifty, north of range fourteen, west of the fourth principal
meridian, State of Minnesota, and the three last named pieces
of land have been since deeded by the said Matthew, Joseph
and Antoine May-Dway-Gon to Charlotte Armsfrong. But
previous to the date of said deeds the above-named Joseph,
Matthew and Antoine May-Dway-Gon had assigned or transferrecl all their right, title and interest therein to the said
Benjamin Armstrong. I, the aforesaid Benjamin G. Armstrong, did sell by deed and contract to Frederick Prentice,
which 1, the said Charlotte Armstrong, knew at the time, but
did not know but that by getting another deed or conveyance
after the patents were issued, we could sell the property, but
am now satisfied that we had sold and assigned all our right,
title and interest to Frederick Prentice previous to our deeding
to any other person or persons, and that we had no right to
dee&or convey to any other person or persons, as the title to
the lands above described was then virtually and by right
vested in the said Frederick Prentice, and that the first deed
for the one-half and the contract for the remaining half of said
land, with the payment thereon made at the time by the said
Frederick Prentice, bound us to give him good and sufficient
deeds to said property whenever so demanded; and we do
hereby assign and quit claim all our right, title and interest

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Stat-ment of Fact&

now or at any time held by us to ali the above described property, in fulfillment of our agreements with the said Frederick
Prentice.
"In witness whereof we have, this 27th day of Adgust, in
the year one thousand eight hundred and seventy-two, affixed
our hands and seals."
The patent of the United States to Armstrong, which covered
the land in controversy, was as follows:
" UNITED STrATES

or AMRmICA.

".To aal [to] whom these presents siall come, Greeting:
"Whereas by the sixth clause of the second article of the
treaty between the United States of America and the Chippewa
Indians, of Lake Superior and the Mississippi, made and concluded at La Pointe, in the State of Wisconsin, on the thirtieth
day of September, eighteen hnndred and fifty-four, it is stipulated that, 'the Ontonagon band and that subdivision of the
La Pointe band of which Buffalo is chief, may each select, on or
near the lake shore, four sections of land, under the direction of
the President, the boundaries of which shall be defined hereafter; and being desirous to provide for some of his connections who have rendered his people important services, it is
agreed that the Chief Buffalo may select one section of land,
at such place in the ceded territory as he may see fit, which
shall be reserved for that purpose, and conveyed by the United
States to such person or persons as he may direct;' and whereas
it appears from a return, dated the twenty-seventh day of September, one thousand eight hundred and fifty-eight, from the
office of Indian affairs to the General Land Office, that there
has been selected and approved for ' Shaw-Bwaw-Skung, or Benjamin G. Armstrong,' as one of the ' connections' of said chief
Buffalo, the west half of the southwest quarter, and lot number
five, both of section twenty-seven, and lot number three of section thirty-four, containing together one hundred and eightytwo acres and sixty-two hundreths of an acre, all in township
fifty north, of range fourteen west of the fourth principal
meridian, in the State of Minnesota.

PRENTICE v. STEARNS.
Opinion of the Court.

"Now, know ye that the United States of America, in consideration of the premises, and in conformity with the clause of
the said treaty, as above recited:
"Have given and granted, and by these presents do give and
grant, unto the said ' Shaw-Bwaw-Skung, or Benjamin G. Armstrong,' and to his heirs, the tract of land above described: To
have and to hold the said tract, with the appurtenances, unto
the said I Shaw-Bwaw-Skung, or Benjamin G. Armstrong,' and
to his heirs and assigns forever.
"In testimony whereof, I, James Buchanan, President of the
United States, have caused these letters to be made patent, and
the seal of the Gen, 'ral Land Office to be hereunto affixed.
"Given under my hand, at the city of Washington, this
twenty-third day of October, in the year of our Lord one
thousand eight hundred and fifty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States the eighty-third.
"By the President :
Ji~rs

[SFAL.]"
" M. GRANGER,

-.

G"By

Bucnix,

T. J. ALBRiGHT, Seop

"R ecorder of the General Land Oce.
"Recorded Vol. II., pages 376, 377."
.Mr. Benjamin A. Willie for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Gordon E Cole for defendant in error.
Mi. JuSTICE MTrruHws, after making the foregoing state

ment, delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error has assigned errors, in several particulars, in the finding of facts, but as there is no bill of exceptions
setting forth the evidence, no error of law can be assigned in
respect to any finding of fact, and we are necessarily restricted
to the question whether, upon the facts as found, there was
error in giving judgment for defendant.
An argument is also addressed to us by counsel for the plaintiff in error, in support of the proposition, that, if the deed under which he claims title were not effectual to convey the patented land, by reason of a mistaken description, equity would

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

relieve the plaintiff by reforming the deed. But plainly no
such question can arise on this record. The proceeding is not
in equity to reform the deed, but is at law to recover possession by virtue of an alleged legal title under it. We are dealing with the legal title alone in this action; any equities supposed to control it are not the subject of present consideration,
and must be excluded altogether from the discussion.
The case of the plaintiff in error rests upon the proposition,
maintained in argument by his counsel, that the deed of Armstrong and wife to him, of September 11, 1856, is capable at
law of being construed, and must be construed, as a valid and
effectual conveyance-not of the particular tract of land described by metes and bounds, but-of any and whatever section
or tract Armstrong was then equitably entitled to, under the
treaty, by virtue of the appointment of Chief Buffalo, to be
thereafter specifically designated, and the legal title conveyed
by the patent to be issued therefor, which, when issued, would
inure to the benefit of the plaintiff in error as the previous and
first grantee of Armstrong, and clothe him with the legal title
to the land therein described. And in this view it is contended,
that the case falls within the rule of the decisions in the cases
of Zandes v. Brandt, 10 How. 348; Doe v. Wilson, 23 How.
457 ; and Crews v. Burcham, 1 Black, 352.
In D)oe v. Wilson, as explained and confirmed in Crews v.
Burkam, it was held "that the reservation created an equitable interest to the land to be selected under the treaty; that
it was the subject of sale and conveyance; that Pet-chi-co was
competent to convey it; and that his deed, upon the selection
of the land and the issue of the patent, operated to yest the
title in his grantee."
And in the last-named case--Crews v. Burchm--the court
say :
" We think it quite 6lear, if this patent had issued to Besion
in his lifetime, the title would have inured to his grantee. The
deed to Armstrong recites the reservation to the grantee of the
half section under the treaty, and that it was to be located by
the President after the lands were surveyed; and then, for a
valuable consideration, the grantee conveys all his right and*

PRENTICE v. STEARNS.
Opinion of the Court.

title to the same, with a full convenant of warranty. The
land is sufficiently identified to which Besion had the equitable
title, which was the subject of the grant, to give operation and
effect to this covenant on the issuing of the patent within the
meaning of this'act of Congress [that is the act of May 20,
1836, 5 Stat. 31]. The act declares the land shall inure to and
become vested in the assignee the same as if the patent had
issued to the deceased in his lifetime." 1 Black, 357.
In these cases, it will be observed, the land conveyed before
the issue of the patent was the same described in and conveyed
by the patent, and no question arose, as there does here, as to
the identity of the description in the two conveyances. In
-Doe v. TW/8ol
the court charged the jury, and correctly, as it
was held, that "the description of the land in the deeds fromFet-chi-co to Coquillard and Colerick, from Colerick to Coquillard, and from Coquillard to Wilson, are sufficient to identify
the land thereby intended to be conveyed, as the same two
sections of land which are in controversy in this suit, and
which are described in the patents which have been read in
evidence." 23 How. 462.
In the present case, however, the land described in the deed
from Armstrong and wife to the plaintiff of September 11,
1856, is not thd same land in whole or in part, as that described
in the patent from the United States to Armstrong. This'
want of identity, so far as the description by metes and bounds
is concerned, is admitted; but it is insisted that this part of
the description may and ought to be rejected from the deed of
September 11, 1856, as a matter of construction, on the principle of the maxim, " .Fa l& denww& atio nm nocet," and that'
enough would still be left to identify the land conveyed by the
deed to the plaintiff with that described in the patent to Armstrong.
This, however, is not correct. If the alleged erroneous description were stricken from the deed what would remain
would be as'follows : "One undivided half of all thbf6llowin'g'
described piece or parcel of land situate in the county of St.
Louis and Territory of Minnesota," . . . "being the ldnd
get off to the Indian chief 'Buffalo' .at the Indian treaty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

September 30, A.D. 1854, and was afterwards disposed of by
said Buffalo to said Armstrong, and is now recorded with the
government documents," &c.
This description, thus remAining, refers to land already at
the date of the deed set off to the Indian chief Buffalo, and
described in an existing document in the archives of the government, and cannot possibly, therefore, embrace the tract subsequently selected and designated and described in the patent
of October 23, 1858. And the references which must be relied
on to furnish any description whatever for the land conveyed
by the deed, when applied, result simply in restoring to the
deed the particular description by boundaries which for imputed error had for purposes of interpretation been struck out.
The case is not one to which the maxim invoked for the construction of the deed can be applied. That rule of inferpretation, which rejects erroneous particulars of description, where
what is left sufficiently identifies the subject of the grant, is
adopted in aid of the intention of the grantor, as gathered from
the instrument itself, read in the light of the circumstances in
which it was written. But here it is expressly found as a fact
by the court,, in reference to the land originally selected by
Buffalo, and described in the deed from Armstrong to the
plaintiff, "that the land Buffalo had in view and intended in
such designation is not included, nor any part thereof, in the
patents subsequently issued by the United States to the relatives of said Buffalo named above," and "that a large portion
of the land embraced within the courses and distances of said
deed is covered by water, and that portion which is not covered
by water in said description is land which Chief Buffalo had in
view and intended to embrace in his selection as aforesaid, but
does not embrace the land involved in this suit." So that the
description of the land in the deed which it is sought to reject,
because it is inconsistent with that of the patent, is an accurate
and not an erroneous description of the land intended by the
parties to be embraced and conveyed by the deed from Armstrong to the plaintiff.
It follows that there is no error in the judgment of the Circuit Court, and it is accordingly
Affirmed.

