OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

PNEUMATIC GAS COMPANY v. BERRY & Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT, OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERNI DISTRICT OF MOICHIGAN.
Argaed January 7, 1885.-Decided February 2, 185.

A release by a corporation to one of its directors of all claims, equitable or
otherwise, arising out of transactions under a contract between the corporation and the director made in excess of its corporate powers, is valid, if
made in good faith, and without fraud or concealment.

The facts which make. the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.

.Ar. Valter H. Smith and 21r. C. W. Holcomb for appellant.
-fr.Ervin Palmer for appellees.
MR.

JusrciE

FrELD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This case comes before us on appeal from the decree of the
Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. The facts,
so far as necessary to present the point of our decision, are as
follows:
In 1869, and previous to March of that year, several persons
interested in a patent for the manufacture of illuminating gas,
and gas machines khown as "Rand's Patent," for the States of
Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois and Iowa, agreed to unite their
interests, obtain an act of incorporation from the legislature of
Illinois and do business in Chicago. They accordingly applied
to the legislature of the State, and, on the 24th of March following, obtained an act duly incorporating them and their associates and successors under the name of the Illinois Pneumatic Gas Company. By its third section the corporation was
invested with power to manufacture and sell illuminating gas,
to bu made from petroleum or its products under the patents
owned or to be owned by the company, or in which it may
hav any title or interest, issued or to be issued to A. C. Rand;
also to manufacture and'sell the works and machinery with all

PNEUMATIC GAS COMPANY v. BERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

needed materials and appliances for such manufacture, and to
make assignments and grant licenses under the patents in the
same manner and to the same effect as if the 6orporation were
a natural person.
In September, 1869, the corporators organized under the act
of the legislature, adopted a set of by-laws for the management
of the affairs of the company, and, pursuant to them, elected a
board of nine directors, with full control of its property and
franchises, and a president, secretary and treasurer and general
manager. The defendant, Joseph H. Berry, was chosen as one
of the directors, and iMahlon S. Frost was chosen treasurer and
general manager. From this time until the 1st of June in the
following year, 1870, the company carried on at Chicago the business of manufacturing gas machines. But the business was not
profitable, and the company ran in debt and became embarrassed.
Judgments were recovered against it, upon which executions
were issued and levied upon its property. It was without money,
or credit, or any available means of raising funds, and the
forcible sale of its whole property was imminent. Under these
circumstances, the general manager, Frost, consulted the defendants as to the course which should be pursued, and, as the
result of the conference, the defendants entered into an agreement with him to the effect that, if he would take the property
of the company and continue its business under his personal
supervision and management, they would advance sufficient
money to pay its outstanding debts and to carry on the business
already obtained and to develop and increase it. Having this
agreement with the defendants, Frost made a proposition to the
board of directors of the company to take its property and
franchises for two years from June 1, 1870, continue its business
for that period at his own expense, pay its existing liabilities,
and at the end of two years return to the company the property
received, and transfer to itthe right to manufacture gas with
a machine known as the "Maxim Gas Machine," and the right
to sell the same in Illinois. This proposition was accepted by
the directors and embodied in a written agreement, executed
by the company through its president and secretary, bearing
date on that day. This agreement is, in fact, a lease by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the tourt.

company to Frost, for the period of two years, of the good-will
of its business, of its right to manufacture gas and gas machines,
of its franchises, machinery, implements, tools and fixtures, and
a sale of its gas fixtures then on hand, and machines then in
.process of being made, and its stock and materials, notes, book
accounts, claims and demands. And the agreement provided
that, in consideration of the lease and sale of the property,
Frost should pay all the then liabilities of the company as the
same matured, excepting the amount then due to him (which
was to continue a liability as though the agreement had not
been made), procure the right to vend the patented "Maxim
Gas Machine ". for the State of Illinois, and at the end of the
lease return to the company all the property received from it
and the business which he had built up or acquired. Frost was
then a director of the company, and, upon the execution of the
agreement, he took possession of its property and assets, and
conducted the business until August 1, 1870, when he transferred to the defendants all his interests and privileges. They
thereupon took possession of the property, commenced the manufacture of gas machines at Chicago, and continued in the
business until their machinery was destroyed by fire in October, 1871. During this period they paid the debts of the company, and carried out the conditions of the lease and sale, except as to the purchase of the "Maxim" patent. After the fird
the directors extended the lease for two years, and consented
to the removal of the manufacturing works to Detroit. The
defendants accordingly removed the works to that city, where
they afterwards carried on the business.
The lease, as extended, did not expire until June 1, 1874, but
in April, before its expiration, the defendants offered to surrender it and the business to the company on certain conditions.
The offer was accepted, but the proposed agreement fell
through from a failure of the company to comply with the
conditions.
Again, after the termination of the lease, and bn October
15, 1874, the defendants made another proposition to the board
of directors, which was, in substance, to sell to the company
their stock on hand, including machines finished wholly. or in

PNEUMATIC GAS COMPANY v. BERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

part, at a valuation to be estimated by a committee to be
appointed by the company, less the value of the property to
be turned over to the company under the terms of the lease
and their proportion of the working capital necessary to purchase the tools 'and machinery. In consideration of this agreement the defendants were to be released from all claims of the
company, and were to carry on the business at Detroit for one
year without compensation, the company to have the profits
made. This proposition was accepted, and, pursuant to it,
certain of the stockholders gave their notes to the defendants
in purchase of the property then on hand, which were afterwards paid. This arrangement, however, fell through, as some
of the stockholders failed to furnish their proportion of the
purchase money for the property.
• On the 15th of March, 1876, the defendants made a
third
proposition to the directors for the adjustment of their business, which was accepted and incorporated into an agreement
executed on that day. It transferred to the company the interest in the lease to Frost remaining in them, and stipulated
to assign and transfer on demand all of the capital stock owned
by them for the sum of $274 and the right to manufacture gas
machines at some one place to be selected by them in certain
named States, with the privilege of selling the machines. It
stipulated to pay and deliver to the stockholders the moneys
received from them under the contract of October 15, 1874,
with interest thereon, and to deliver up such notes as they then
held. And on the other hand, the company stipulated to pay
to the defendants their proportion of any royalty that might
be collected on the patents during the time the defendants
owned stock in the company in the proportion that their stock
bore to the whole stock of the company, and it released them
from all claims, either equitable or otherwise, which it had by
virtue of previous agreements or transactions.
The provisions of this agreement were fully carried out by
the defendants. They paid over to the several stockholders the
money and surrendered the notes they had received under the
agreement of October 15, 1874, and interest on the money.
Notwithstanding this settlement, and the release of the com-

OCTOBER TERM, "1884.
Opinion of the Court.

pany thereby executed, the present bill was filed by it in
September, 1877, upon instructions of its board of. directors, to
cancel the lease and contracts, to charge the defendants as
trustees, and compel them to account for the property received
from the company and profits made by them in their business
under the lease. It set forth the lease and the transactions we
have mentioned, and charges that they were made in excess of
the authority of the directors, and were therefore null and
void; tliat it was a breach of duty on their part to make the
lease to Frost, and, on his part, to 'receive it, he being the
treasurer and general manager of the company; and, also, that
the release was invalid because the defendants then had in their
possession unaccounted for, the sum of at least $60,000 derived
from their business under the lease, which belonged to the company.
.The answer of the defendants explained the agreements and
transactions with the company, its insolvent condition when
the lease was made, the repeated offers to return the property
andt urn over the business to the company, and the final settlement and execution of -the reqlase of the company by the
agreement of March 15, 1876. The lease to Frost and the
contracts and transactions between the parties were fully disclosed by the proofs produced, and the court held, after full consideration, that under the embarrassed circumstances in which
the company was placed at the time, judgments being rendered
against iAand executions levied upon its property, which was
about to be sold, the lease was a valid transaction. Had it not
been made, said the court, and the money furnished by the defendants to meet the liabilities of the company, its whole
property would have been sacrificed and its business entirely
broken up; and though Frost, to whom the lease was made,
was at the time a director of the corpor4tion, that. fact of itself
was not sufficient ground to set aside the contract, it being
made to protect the interests of the company and without any
fraudulent design on his part.
The court also held that it ought not to set aside the lease
for other reasons, namely, that it had been executed over seven
years before any objection was made to it, and had during this

PNEUMATIC GAS COMPANY v. BERRY.
Opinion of the Court.

time been repeatedly ratified; and, that the release executed
under the agreement of March 15, 1876, was a full and final
settlement of the matters and claims between the parties, there
being no evidence that the settlement was obtained by fraud
or any improper conduct of either party. The court therefore
dismissed the bill, and from its decree the cause is brought by
appeal to this court.
A court of equity does not listen with much satisfaction to
the complaints of a company that transactions were illegal
which had its approval, which were essential to its protection,
and the benefits of which it has fully received. Complaints
that its own directors exceeded their authority come with ill
grace when the acts complained of alone, preserved its existence.
But it is not-necessary to rest our judgment of affirmance of
the decree of the court below upon any consideration of the
character of those transactions. After seven years' acquiescence
in the lease, something more must be shown than that it was
executed in excess of the powers of the directors, before the
lessee will be required to sprender the profits he, has. made
under it. The lease expired June 1, 1874; the disposition of
the property was settled by the agreement of March'15, 1876;
and the release is an answer to all claims for the profits made
by the defendants. The release is of itself sufficient to justify
the dismissal of the bill. There is no evidence that it was
obtained upon any fraudulent representations. Nothing was
kept from the parties when it was executed. Indeed, all the
transactions between the defendants and the company, from
the time they took from Frost an assignment of the lease, were
open and well known. There was no concealment, either had
or attempted, of anything that was done, and no just reason
can be given for disturbing the settlement made.
Decree ajFrmed.

